OF CAUTERIZATION. 880 to Bickersteth (a), transfusion should, where possible, be undertaker before the circulation in the patient’s arm has entirely ceased. 2659. The following is the mode of proceeding in mediate transfusion A sufficiently large superficial vein, the vena cephalica is best, must b< laid bare, by a cut an inch and a half long, upon a fold of skin ; the veil is to be cleared from the cellular tissue, and two threads cariied round its of which the one corresponds to the upper, and the other to the lower i* angle of the wound. The threads are now to be tied, and whilst with ? them the vessel is a little raised, it is opened with the lancet. The canukl n filled with warm water, is now passed into the vein, and the upper threat* I tied over it, the lower thread remaining tied. Whilst this is doing, the person from whom the blood is to be taken, standing close to the patient* I has a vein opened with a large wound, the blood is received into a warn: <f vessel, and the syringe, also warmed, draws up of it about two ounces I The point of the syringe is now quickly directed upwards, a little bloot squirted out to get rid of the air, and it is then fixed into the canula in thft vein, and the blood slowly injected through it. The syringe should not bt i completely emptied, because the remaining blood m it quickly clots. ih« U svrino-e is now to be cleared with warm water, and the injection repeated^ for which purpose the vein, which in the mean while has been compressed*! must now be reopened, and blood drawn into a cup as already mentioned I After the lapse of five minutes, more blood may be thrown in according to circumstances. The dressing and after-treatment are to be managed* exactly as in infusion, (par. 2635.) Blundell’s apparatus consists of a funnel for receiving the blood connected by a tub -with the syringe which injects the blood into the vein through an elastic tube. It is no P1 Instead oTa6 swringrholding two ounces, Blasius thinks a smaller one holding no I more than half an ounce, is better, as therewith the blood loses less of its vitality, am Cl0JoHN MiiLLER proposes, after separating the fibrous parts from the blood by gating ^ to inject it warmed, as in this way it still retains its corpuscles and living powers. $ VII.—OF CAUTERIZATION. Costjeus, De Igneis Medicinal Prmsidiis. Venet., 1593. Fienus, De Cauteriis. Leovan, 1598. ™ Severinus, Pyrotechnia Chirurgica; in his De Efficaci Medicinal, p. 143. Franco 1646. Recueil des Pieces, qui out concouru pour le prix de l’Academie de ChirulgKp Pouteau, Memoire sur les Avantages du Cautere Actuel; in his Melanges Loder, Ueber das kiinstliche Brennen; in his Medic.-Chirurg. Beobachtunge , " j Pascal, Ueber die Wirkungen des Brennens mit Moxa; in neuster Samuil g | bester Abiiandlungen fur Wundiirzte, vol. ii. p. 302. Percy, Pyrotechnic Chirurgicale Pratique. Paris, 1810. .w Actuel 1 Valentin, L., Memoire et Observations concernant les bons effets du an <. NL^REv!l)e l’Usage de Moxa ; in Recueil de Memoires de Chirurgie, p- 1- Pari8J 1821. 599 („) Liverpool Medical Journal. 1834. May.-London Medical Gazette, vol. *W. P-