AT THE HIP, WITH TWO FLAPS. 939 capsular and round ligaments, and then cuts from within outwards the rest of the capsule and whatever muscular fibres still remain attached. 2763. vonWalther (a) compresses the femoral artery with a compressor against the pubic bone ; thrusts a double-edged amputation knife, three inches below the upper front spine of the ilium, at the outer edge of the m. sartorius, vertically down upon the neck of the thigh-bone, carries it outwards and backwards around it, and pushes it out two inches and a half behind the great trochanter, at a corresponding height to its point of en- trance ; the knife now kept close to the bone, cuts two inches below the base of the trochanter obliquely outwards, and forms an oblong outer flap which being drawn back, the exposed capsular ligament is cut into, the head of the bone dislocated outwards and downwards, and the round liga- ment divided. With a single-edged amputating knife he now passes through the cavity of the joint, behind the head of the thigh-bone and round the little trochanter, and continues two inches down along the inside of the thigh close to the bone. The femoral artery and neighbouring vessels are now to be compressed, as high up as possible, by both the thumbs of an assistant placed upon the surface of the wound, and then the edge of the knife being inclined obliquely inwards, the operation is com- pleted by forming the inner flap. 2764. According to Vohler, the femoral vessels should be laid bare by a cut on Poupart’s ligament and tied, and then the patient havino- been placed on his belly, the skin and m. glutaus maximus are to be cu° i through two fingers breadth below the ischial tuberosity, and the flan so formed drawn up ; the muscles attached to the trochanter are then cut i through to the capsular ligament, which is opened whilst the thigh is i lghtly moved and cut through forwards together with the musclls on the ou er and fore part of the thigh. The vessels must be in part com" ipressed, and in part tied. The hinder flap covers the wound. 2/6.j. According to Bell (b), the femoral artery should be compressed by a tourniquet against the pubic bone, and the thigh being bent on the groin, the skin and flesh of the thigh are to be divided with two circular fSlx inc ies.below the joint, and every important vessel on the surface he wound tied. Two longitudinal cuts are now made upwards froni^ the so thltrtv°nflbehlnd f/om tl,,e head of the thigh-bone, and another before ^ of the thhTh aT. ed’ °ne °n ?e °Uter and the °ther on the innei- ae ol the thigh, ihese are separated to expose the joint the head of the Tmr" if ‘Tf6"’ U mmt be witl. ,l!e foreeps* 2166. According to Beclard (c), the thigh should be slio-htll he f ”° 88 to relax the parts on its fore part then in the Virile c li be 4 I— t sS S'lnorers’ hrenrHb r * i. » e Knite clown a flap is made, six p£ SoKf '%£%£££ &« com- lapsular ligament 1 ie t'ont °f the joint is now laid bare, the ffif tj,e b ° i. i . , , ’ am afterwards the round ligament, the head » mifeljeinn,ecarried^^iind Zt8^ -id the whole flap^fequaMength ^ “*