435 THROUGH THE PERINEUM. 6 For a careful recital of the various methods of proceeding in puncturing the bladder » 3rough the perinaeum, see Poller, Ueberden Harnblasenstich im Damme. Erlang., 1813. 8vo. jt Upon the various modes of using the Sound, see Desault, above cited, vol. iii. p. 320. : 1826. Although opinions agree upon the undoubted preference of punc- ■ Wiring the bladder above the pubic symphysis, and through the rectum, to d uat through the perineum, yet do they differ in regard to the first two > lodes of operation. In regard to puncture above the pubes, it is considered as easily per- tirmed and slightly painful; that by it merely the coverings of the belly □d one part of the bladder are injured, where it usually is not inflamed, d'<ad where it can be best treated ; that the bladder cannot be missed, that if! le after-treatment is easier, extravasation of urine does not so readily V’cur, and the tubes, if they accidentally fall out, can be easily replaced, & id may be changed and cleaned with little trouble; and that the patient i in go about whilst they remain in. On the other hand, the slipping off [ • t the bladder from the tubes after the discharge of the urine, by its fall- s' g together, and by the pressure on it, if it descend very low, inflamma- u on and suppuration of the hind wall of the bladder, and thrusting the H ;be into the rectum, are to be dreaded ; also if the urine be not completely i; scharged, that a part of it always remains in the bottom of the bladder. For the preference of puncturing through the rectum, it is alleged that :i e walls of the bladder and rectum are in closer contact, that the trocar r mis no thick parts to penetrate, and therefore the operation is not painful; ■fat the swelling of the bladder is more perceptible, and failure in intro- ducing the trocar less possible. On the contrary, it is thought that in this » deration the bladder may be missed, a blood vessel, or the seminal vesicles, 4 tie Peritonceum wounded ; that its effects are always greater, the escape the tubes, infiltration of the urine, collection of pus and consequent / inary fistula, are to be feared. I • l82^- The objections to the puncture above the pubes are of little value, I in performing it with a curved trocar, and by the introduction of a ' ant tuj?e> no jnjury to the hind wall of the bladder can ensue, and the - -aPe of the urine can be furthered by the proper position of the patient, ir.ns mode of operation, therefore, serves generally, but is especially i. ererabie over that through the rectum in those cases where the bladder ilinnamed or othervvise diseased, in hardening of the prostate, in diseases ' ne rectum, specially in hsemorrhoidal swellings, and if the discharge ne urine through the operation-wound must be long sustained, or niToughout life. objections made to puncturing through the rectum, it may be I s • ’ ,at the inj.ul7 the seminal vesicles may be easily avoided by I ddlenftV deeP]y’ and thrusting the trocar directly into the . ,i„ i le swelling ; that wounding the peritoneum is not easily pos- Ue anriCj|US*e Ul tf!e elevation of the bladder, the space between the pros- IjLtnv ',<l membrane is increased ; and the slipping out of the tubes, in v't thrmi l ^annot produce any inconvenience, as the urine either flows it2r of tv ! 16 0Peil’no> or the bladder again fills. The preference, how- ■M^uliar .'e..Purlcturo above the pubes always continues the greatest. As Em amt„i ^f11,0,118 m^P'mofuririg through the rectum may be held, a very [ a ^er> ehhsion of blood into it, and an overweening dread 2 f 2