THE LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE KNIFE. 583 j* [Scarpa (a) lias made the following important observations in reference to the division £ of the prostate in the lateral operation, whether performed with the knife or with the i gorget:—“ As the apex of the prostate gland forms the greatest resistance to the intro- luction of the forceps and the extraction of the stone, this part of it ought, in every operation of lithotomy in the perinmim, to be completely divided. But with respect to * :he body and base of the gland, an incision, extending to the depth of five lines, through >i its whole length, and consequently including a small portion of the orifice of the bladder, i s, with the aid of a moderate and gradually increased dilatation, sufficient for the •; >xtraction of a stone of more than ordinary size, without the parts through which it i lasses being greatly contused or lacerated. In children, where the orifice of the bladder « rnd base of the prostate gland are easily distended, and in aged persons, in whom the irifice of the bladder, and neck of the urethra are generally much larger than in adults, ■ in incision in the base of the gland less than five lines in depth, and in children, of two i mly, is sufficient for the extraction of a stone of ordinary size, by means of a moderate ) lilatation of those parts. The large size of the stone, for instance, of one exceeding wenty lines in its smallest diameter, is no sufficient ground for dividing the substance if the gland to such an extent as to penetrate into the cellular membrane beyond it and he fundus of the bladder; for as an incision of such depth is constantly followed by the afiltration of urine, gangrenous abscesses, and fistula, between the bladder and rectum, t is obvious that calculi of such size ought never to be extracted by the perinceum. The iteral operation has therefore limits beyond which it is impossible to pass without - sposing the patient to more serious evils than those which could arise from the presence f the stone in the bladder.” (p. 7-9.)] B 2080. The cut into the neck of the bladder made with the same knife. 1 .o this belong the methods of Franco, Frere Jacques, Rau, Ches- Et! lden, Mokand, and others, and as it lias been more or less modified [tuncl employed in recent times by Dubois, Klein, Langenbeck, and BIlern. When the outer cut is made, and the membranous part laid bare, neither the point of the bistoury is introduced on the nail of the left fore- finger, which rests on the groove of the staff, into it, or the point of the gmfe is thrust directly into the groove of the staff, behind the top of its .curve, also behind the symphysis, in a direction as if it were to come out <ct the first lumbar vertebra. The staff is now taken with the left hand i rom the assistant, brought in a parallel direction to the linea alba, pressed ■awards the symphysis, and the knife, held with the whole hand, is thrust ■|ito the groove of the staff, according to the direction of the outer wound Hp to the blind end of the staff, and then in drawing out the knife, its handle iLinga little raised, the inner cut is enlarged. A common somewhat convex I istoury serves the purpose in this method, but the most suitable is a par- « cular knife, the convex blade of which is connected firmly with a rather t ng handle, as the knives of Cheselden (5) and Dubois (c). (W^RAN haV,'ng ,made the cut through the skin and urethra, introduced 1 ivffif r, a beik (s°"ie “ bec> uP°n the S™ove of the staff into the bladder and I d tLn tEdrTU h<3 Staff’l.examined, the stone with the director to ascertain its size then thrust a convex bistoury (bistouri a rondache) into the bladder upon the I rn nV ™ed dorwards’ of th® director- Dent’s method is similar, in which, after I mished withtrI>ran0US Part ° ,thf urethra, and introducing a director, or lithotome I SBTiTS a to,ngue’ ;vas Pushed in s'heways (Dease) (e). In a similar manner I >on the f/r perat^s’ .afte.r °Pe["ng the membranous part, another staff is introduced’ s,ckle-sha^knife'-<•*»«•* *• i &) js a modification of Le Drans method. Key (A) employs merely a If Wlth a vel7 short curve, and a convex bistoury (1). W employs merely a f M 3ul coni}uUore taglienti d’ Haw- 1 via^TIo- es^5,z,ol?e l]ella Pietra <lella Vesica. 1 A’n 2j' Translated by Bnioos. I ieraln^t-3’ APPfin,dix t0 the History of the '«! >:sp.i n» Jatl°n °r 1 le stone, containing Mr. , ntlori, 173*1 Present method of performing it. fa iv kAn'j?vf fted.-CHEMOB's alteration of Dtr- ,le Lithotomifi (d) Traite des Operations, p. 307. Paris, 1742. le) Essay on Hydrocele. if) Practical Observations on the Lateral Opera- tion of Lithotomy, and on the various and new v°< eS,oo,perf'°.rlnin8 this Operation, &c. New York, 1824; with plates. la) Taille au niveau. Avignon, 1765, pi. i. ii. (/i) A short. Treatise on the Section of the I rostatic Gland in Lithotomy, &c. London, 1824 4to.; with plates.