TREATMENT OF. 535 The following are the excellent remarks of Pbout on “ the treatment to be adopted in what is usually denominated a fit of the gravel. “ A Fit of the Gravel consists in the secretion of a large portion of lithic (uric) acid by the kidney, under the circumstances above mentioned, and is usually preceded, as well as accompanied, by much constitutional derangement, with tendency to fever and intiammation. The principles of the treatment to be adopted in this form of the dis- ease closely resemble those recommended in gravel, except that they must be more active. When the attack is acute, venesection or cupping from the region of the kidney, with active doses of calomel and antimonial powder (or omitting the latter, if nausea be present, and substituting opium or hyoscyamus) should be immediately had recourse to, and precede the use of diuretic remedies.— [iVote.—I have seen great mis- chief done by the incautious use of stimulating diuretics at the commencement of the attack. The sufferings of the patient have been all aggravated, and his life has been placed in extreme danger.]—When these have begun to operate sensibly upon the system, though, perhaps, before the purgatives have produced actual stools, the patient may have recourse to warm fomentations about the region of the kidneys—or, what is much better, the warm bath, and commence the use of the diuretic purgatives formerly mentioned, with the addition of colchicum: and these means, if judiciously and vigorously applied, seldom fail of removing the inflammatory or spasmodic action of _ the kidney, and of producing a flow of urine. If the attack has been taken in time, 9'; the formation of a calculus in the kidney will thus be certainly prevented ; or, at least, ul what is formed will be very small, and scarcely ever fail to be brought away without is producing those distressing symptoms which usually accompany the descent of a calculus down the ureter. It need scarcely be mentioned, that a strict antiphlogistic regimen is to be adopted; and that the collateral and subsequent treatment must be regulated by the symptoms present.” (pp. 151, 52.) Jones, speaking ot the treatment of the uric acid diathesis, in correspondence with Liebig’s views, observes, that “exercise which produces perspiration is the most beneficial; and this the more so, the colder the air is, because thereby a greater amount « of oxygen is absorbed;” but it should be taken, “always stopping short of great tu fatigue, which might depress the vital powers, so as to admit of the production of an excess of uric acid.” * * * Sleep, tending as it does to render the respirations as light and as few as possible, should be indulged in only as far as is necessary to repair the * fatigue which exercise has produced. Hot rooms should be avoided. * * * Nitrous & oxide water, known also as oxygenated water, is the best diluent in these complaints. r ; soda water very rarely contains any alkali, but consists of ordinary water with car- ®:bomc acid forced into it; so that, except for the quantity of water, it is in no way ■beneficial; and in this respect it is not so good as ordinary fountain water, inasmuch bras the atmospheric air suspended in the latter is better than the carbonic acid in the a former. * * By the various preparations of iron we may also increase the amount B. re<. Part|des in the blood, and thus influence the quantity of oxygen which is ft absorbed. Perhaps the greatest practical benefit has been derived from the sesquioxide ot,l”m/ . should “ not be given in the enormous doses recommended, by which the 1 „ ,.e lntesjjIlal canal becomes loaded; but in moderate doses, and in such a state as GtT,1r°'V ofIeriLtheieast impediment to its absorption ; that is, in the minutest state of * \rVS10n- 0 5ffect thls’ lt: sll0u,d be glven newly precipitated from some soluble rf l.rhi’T l a,S’ for ^araP1?’ from the sesquichloride or persulphate of iron, from tout P™4 4 lr°n ^ f°rmed ^ thC additi°“ "f Carb0Date °f am- E'*rl,v6Joar 1,t0 tbe tr<^ent ,by diminishing the non-nitrogenous principles in the I ,en oni» observes: It has been shown that the substances which contain no nitro- Kric’acW aiH?, T\\he 0XWir! Wlrh has been insPired> h'nder the action on the ■ thas serial til hlgh y Pr?hab,e.that no albumen undergoes metamorphosis until t has served the purposes of life. These are the first principles by which the practice ITmeatST’ by **■the ,most beneficial d>et » * moderate qSS I nuS be emulated Ev Sma - TI!Ult;ty °f bread- The kind “d quantities of both ■Sent ThP P rnn?entv and “nslderation of the habit and exercise of the t unsuitable oliVP n iy of^tarcb la flour> as compared with animal food, renders IW T bJead' v ¥eat al0ne would be far more beneficial! * * * ipvhich c-in he <?inPrc’C”^ much the largest part of those substances in vegetables Mn small miantitiei 'Vt, ’ 11 {, r”8enous aT'd oleaginous substances are present generally Jjlifferent species Thn«^,u ^ re atl.ve amount of these principles varies much in ] hose are diere'? Potat°cs and nee are those in which most starch is found, and most inadmissible; whilst in greens and peas there is much nitro-