318 STRICTURE OF THE : i 1591 Narrowing of the oesophagus may be produced by various causes; by scars’ after wounds or burns {par. 474) ; by the swelling up of its walls consequent on chronic inflammation of its internal coat; by scirrhous or callous hardening ; by fungous, polypous, or warty growths ; by a varicose condition of the vessels; by tumours, especially swellings of the glands which compress the oesophagus; and by spasm. Hoederer (a) observed an oesophagus with a blind end in a monster. The same was also seen in a full-grown and otherwise well-formed child (b). _ _ 1592. The consequence of narrowing of the oesophagus is more or less in- terfence with swallowing; the symptoms, however, vary according to the kind and seat of the narrowing. „ ... , 1593 In simple (membranous) stricture, which, resembling a fold of. the internal membrane of the maphagta, occupies only a small extern, and is usually situated at the upper part of the tube, opposite the cn^id cartilage, the patient first feels, at one particular spot, a slip cult; in swallowing olid food, and, when the food passes over the part often . shivering in the back. This difficulty continues a longer or shorter ttme, diminishes or ceases, and reappears without any particular cause, or after a chilliness, mental emotion, and the like. The disease may thus long continue getting better and worse. Earlier or late^thed,ffi^,n »* lowing becomes greater, large pieces of food will be retained at that particular part of the oesophagus, in consequence of which, symptoms of choking with the sensation of a violent, spasmodic contraction of the necki couo-h “and great straining are produced, by which the food, frequaifljj Sh an audible grating noise, passes over the obstacle, or by the contrac- tion of the wall! of the oesophagus, and the straining of the patient, if dine to time, a little improvement, for which, subsequent aggravation, no reason call of swaUw modic affection be not assumed. With the esmm , there is, however no > caus5e9s4tl,arrowing, L which it forms a Wm contracting itself to the smallest aperture, generally clepenas flammatory condition of the mucous membrane °fSS'i quently, however, no decided cause can be found ; ofJe“tl“^. A. alternateh a cold At the beginning, the disease, on account of i s ge t | 1 ^ better and worse, is thought to be a spasmodic affection, it is, no ^ bable that a spasmodic affection may P^“to P™^ tly in mid-life form of narrowing of the oesophagus occnrsmove Irequen y ^ men and, according to my experience, more fiegw^ f I have however, noticed it in persons of fifty or sixty years Home (c) has given a beautiful engraving of a membranous stricture. (a) Commentar. Societ. Goetting., vol. iv. (fc) IURI.ES8, Rliciniscli. Jahrbuclier rider Med. und Chir., vol. i. pt. - (c) Above cited, p «.v> i. **-*