960 EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER. socket, by the contraction of the muscles, this method is, for beginner; especially, in most cases unsafe. The point of the knife is easily eaugliti, must be carried inwards and forwards in various ways, and the like Beginners find out that here, as in many other of the modes of exarticula-tj tion proposed in modern times, sleights of hand, which are readih per- formed upon the dead body, are unavailable in cases of necessity. Law genbeck (a) has already justly objected to Graefe s method that the- knife with its edge turned outwards is not fit to be rolled about, and I especially in the extended position of the arm, that the much-stretcheaJ axillary artery would be cut through too near the shoulder-joint, anc mi°ht retract so greatly as to cause great difficulty in tying it. 9811. When, after exarticulation of the upper-arm-bone, the acror/norA or ""the glenoid cavity is in any way injured, so that its removal may bed considered necessary, it is easily done with the saw (b). Brown saweo off the projecting acromion, for the purpose of making an liisufficien .1 quantity of skin better cover the wound. Robinson (c) recommend;! removal of the acromion and the glenoid cavity, so that the stump maj be made rounder and more regular. Fraser (d) also proposes the removal of a portion of the acromion and coracoid process, togethei \w the whole glenoid cavity, because they hinder the quick union of tin narts bv the adhesive inflammation (1). Supported by the law of the formation of the bone, in consequence oo which the top of the acromion remains cartilaginous to the age of fron eleven to fifteen years, Lisfranc (e) recommends, for persons of th.. a^e the following practice Be the position of the arm what it may, th< operator places the heel of the amputating knife upon the outer side of th«| top of the coracoid process, and carries it up to the hind edge of the arm. St The flap thus formed is lifted up, the cartilage of the acromwA and collar-bone cut into, the joint readily entered, and the under flaj.1 formed in the usual way. , , of continuity. Lu a''c'-'TU causes inflammation, suppuration, and destructioi head of the bone, and if it be lett it causes in neces£ary. In such cases dies of the bone, which render the exarticulat on c,f head of the bone.o symptoms must be guarded agains , y y m,ddle of the deltoid musch of the broken pieces. Larrey (/) made a the woum parallel to its fibres carried it dmvn theSpsular figament is gene Sl^plS’ with a curved,_ the »». fcSjP ™ - - 1** which permits !™t°«!ourom a musket-ball, causing a fracture beneath am Guthrie (g) says th. t ltl „h in its immediate vicinity, by no means de exterior to the capsular ig. alon| with a wound from a musket-ball passm| mands amputation^f bone, in the same situation, without destroying its su ,he ”™ (d) Al>ovecited. .. „fig23 Above cited, p. .W4- de Chi- (e) Avebii-i., above cited, p. 130. k. i \\ (fcj Faub ; in Mcmoiresde 1 Academic de C M6moires de Chirtxrgie Militaire, '»*• ^New ‘England Journal, vol. HI. ^ p. 424. 1814.