266 TYING THE TIBIAL AND PERONEAL ARTERIES. 1486. In laying bare the anterior tibial artery somewhat above the middle of the leg, the space between the anterior tibial muscle and the < loner extensor of the great toe, is to be chosen and the great toe moved , whilst the finger is carried outwards from the crest of the shin-bone. I he « skin and aponeurosis of the leg are to be divided for two and a hall inches- in the direction of this space ; then with the finger, or with the handle of the knife, these muscles are separated, and at the depth oi an inch! the anterior tibial artery is found, with its accompanying single vein and n6jfa the neighbourhood of the instep the artery is quite superficial, covered by the skin and aponeurosis ol the leg, between the tendons of the m tibialis anticus and extensor pollicis longus. If the dorsal artery of the* foot is to be laid bare, a cut is made in the direction of the second toe, on the back of the foot, through the skin and aponeurosis, and the artery is iound» between the tendons of the m. extensor pollicis and the first tendon of the . ni. extensor brevis digitoruni. 1487. The exposure of the posterior tibial artery in the middle or in the* unver third of the leg is very difficult, on account of its depth and of them expansion of the aponeurosis being tightened by the contraction of the* muscles of the calf. A cut is made along the inner edge of the shin* bone for three or four inches through the skin, and the attachment of« the m. soleus divided throughout the whole of this extent. The muscle must then be turned a little aside, and the aponeurotic expansion, separaW ing- the muscles of the calf into a superficial and deep layer, divided, under which the artery is found, between two veins, and accompanied? with the tibial nerve on its fibular side (1). At its lower part the postern* and may by a cut • i„v,^. liotwppn the inner ankle and the Achilles teiicion. tibial artery lies vcj , . T tendon two inches lone;, between the inner ankle and the Achilles tendon lies closer to the heel than the tendons of m. tibialis posticus, and flam diqitorum pedis, and is surrounded with fat and cellular tissue, r /,, T+ -11 not be out of place here to give a caution as to the treatment of a ?Sii35 2SHZS --- ™-T- if reached till this be opened very freely, as it is very unyielding. J. F. .] 1488 If the peroneal artery be tied in the middle of the a Cl*f be made from any one pardof the outer side of the Achih.bs and carried obliquely upwards and outwards to the hmder outer .rft of the splint-bone. The external saphenous vein is to be avoided, apolZTs divided, and the forefinger, passed bfo. the Achilles tendon, is carried upon it before the muscles of the ca t, senarate them from the deep layer. The fascia covering the deep muse* LT be cut through, and the inner edge of the m. flexor pollicis^fc* upwards and outwSrds. The artery is found sometime between the fibres of this muscle, and sometimes between it, the splint-bone,