922 REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. ■with a single flap from the gastroenemial muscles, making, as I consider, a very incon- venient stump. Solingen’s operation had thus, in fact, gone completely out of use till, about two or three years since, Lawrence performed it successfully on a young gentleman who had had his foot crushed. Having become acquainted with this, and having a young woman under my care with scrofulous disease of the foot which she did not object to part with, though she was indisposed to lose her leg, I determined to practise it, and accordingly on March 9, 1844, I amputated three inches above the ankle-joint with a single flap from the back of the leg with as much muscle as I could get upon the knife, but the principal part of the flap consisted of the Achilles’ tendon. Four arteries were tied, and the flap fixed with three sutures and a wet cloth applied for twenty hours, when my assistant removed the sutures and applied straps of plaster. The wound healed very slowly, and had not scarred till after twelve months, when it made a very good stump, and she walks very well on an artificial foot. The course of this case, its tediousness, , and the expense of the apparatus satisfy me, though it might be advantageously em- ployed with persons in easy circumstances, that it is not a fit operation for those who have to labour for their living. In the accompanying report of fourteen amputations below the knee, it will be seen that nine were primary for accidents, mostly very severe, of which two died, and seven i survived; the other five operations for disease, in two of which a very small portion of the spine of the shin-bone exfoliated, all terminated favourably, so that the deaths i on the whole number was only 14* 3per cent. Liston’s (a) reported cases of amputation through the leg are twenty ; of these two were primary, and two secondary, for accidents, all four recovered; one in whom primary amputation, and a few days after, secondary of the other leg, fatal; nine for scrofulous disease of the ankle, two for disease of the foot, one for necrosis, one lor osteosarcoma, one for ulcerated stump, all which fourteen recovered; and one for ulcer of the leg, who died. Hence the deaths on the whole number were 10 per cent. These accounts do not confirm Lawkie’s (b) statement that “ of the more common amputations, that below the knee is least favourable.” Neither do they sustain his rule of practice, “in all cases except those of necessity (not a very comprehensible expres- sion, J. F. s.) to abandon the operation below the knee.” (p. 398.)] (a) Potter; in Med.-Chir. Trans., above cited. (6) London Medical Gazette, above cited. Report of Fourteen Amputations through the Leg, from the Year 1835 to 1840, inclusive. Accident or Disease. j Opernted on 1836 Severe laceration of the May 4. aged 36 (sailor), admitted May 4. muscles of the foot, and Six hourb the inner pluntar artery after tom, consequent on leg falling on the fluke of an anchor. Occident. 183T John .lames. aged 52, admitted April II. Remarks. Fungous ulcer on heel, of April 28. eight months. By circular cut; six arteries tied; integuments scanty, and could not be well brought toge- ther. Eight hours after, free bleeding, and three more arteries taken up. Except having restless night*, lie went on very well till the fourteenth night, when the stump was exceed- ingly painful ; and on the following morning about half an ounce of arterial blood was dis- charged from the wound, but stopped by a little pressure. Next afternoon the bleeding recurred in a jet to four or six ounces; the bleeding part was therefore cleared of clot, but no vessel could be found ; no more bleeding occurred till early on the twenty-second morning, and then to such extent as to render him faint; and ibis recurred twice in the course of seven hours, but only in small quantity. The wound was laid open and left till night, when as there was no more bleeding it was dressed. On the twenty-third day he bled again ; the granula- tions surrounding the ligature, by the side of which the blood flowed, were separated, and a little cavity, as large as a nut, found linevl with a polished membrane: and at its highest part nn aperture, ns large as a pin-hole, through which the blood flowed. This little sac could not be separated from the surrounding parts, a probe was therefore passed Into the hole up the artery, and being fell externally, the skin was cut through, ana the artery tied an inch above the face of the stump. ?Jo more bleed- ing after this, and he went on very well. With tingle Jlap of m. gattrocncmii; three arte- ries titd; much difficulty in securing the anterior tibinl, which retrncted nearly through the interosseous ligament. The flap brought together with three suiurcs and straps of plaster; the sutures removed after forty-eight hours. Dis- charged. June 20. Diet