837 THE SKIN OF THE FOREHEAD. stump of the nose; or, if there be no stump, by making grooves in the skin close to the opening of the nose. In the first case, the edges are to be cut sore, whilst held with hook forceps, and the cut is to be carried through the whole thickness of the nose-stump. As much as possible of its substance is to be preserved ; but both sides must be made as near alike as can be. If a part of the wing of the nose remain, but dropped in !t must be first separated from its adhesions and raised. If the nose be still whole, but curtailed and dropped in, it must not be removed, but according to Diefeenbach, covered by planting upon it a flap of skin! for the reception of which, as well as when the whole nose is want- mg, a strip of skin, a line and a half wide, must be cut out, and thus a sufficiently deep groove formed. Lastly, a broad transverse groove must be cut out to receive the septum ; or the upper lip being drawn well from the upper jaw, and the scalpel thrust through where the lip is attached to the jaw comp etely separates it to the breadth of an inch and more according to the thickness of the septum (Zeis.) The bleeding must iJ “ "f -.0 only when L is isuffldent vessels. The preliminary stitches may now be made at the points marked around the stump of the nose, and the threads held by an assistant • ortliev m 2538 6 aftenva,rds’ vv„he” th« flaPis t^ned down and properly’app ed 2o38. The separation of the frontal flap is now to beproceeded with [The convex scalpel being inserted rectangularly at the topmost point' I H:’JV.Vlth a sharp bold stroke, along the marked line, or at the edo-e of I „ -V1C U\° P aster’ tbe sk*a of the forehead through its entire thickness avoiding the bridge, which still remains on the root of the feeted PffVf thei flaP 7S n°VV §’rasPed with hook forceps, and carefully dis n!vith h^ fr- \ffalea aP°neuroticai"'hich is preferable to removing it . the galea itself, to render the flap as thick as possible and hi ! ? Rto t0 '«“ ’I- wfS marine briZ ill if ’ °i \ 16 ^ne end of t ie cut> circumscribing the flap is carried L - S'",fP 0f th? ““ * aiwntageora, Ie... and more pl'„ fro” *,his ,4< * “ thc “tote "»J be continued along the bridge of .kin J ' be obt“»ed, t« ssasrjs ana ith skin at the operations. For this purpose he boundsLc°T.eni)S the inner surface Lurved cut, extending from the wing of the nose above thl* /r011tal ,flaP above with a r? ivides it by two vertical cuts into t l • above the septum, and after separating w 'ngthways forms the septum, and the two sidriffeccs''' ',11lddle folded together ’ with a needle from without inwards -md f also ,folded ln> and with a thread »d knotted, are kept in this position that th»d * T11"n outwards> and having its I wMed skin. Blasius had prSSS?in'T °f the .n°se ma-v b* formed of a ch, also, by forming an oval flap fronuhe foreheadS iT/3! SU°,cels’ aild Dhsffen- ■ lt into. This mode of practice is the 1” end of which he twice ¥; v.ery thin, as the otherwise" shrivllle,t 3 advaataGeous lf the skin of the forehead Venings of the nostrils easily narrow. e"C °f the n0SU gains tbickness> and the r fisted iialf'round on hi Sis s^Sa^ts^^d6^ 'l "T droPPed down- and f ^served whether itc „,t ‘ ’ 1 at,!ts ePlcJermal side is outmost, and it is I fie groove prepared f Ca" apP led to t,10S(: °* t,ie nose-stump, or into senttl still moie, and the side cuts lengthened