431 OF THE CATHETER. niliat the urethra anti neck of the bladder are brought into a line, and the Catheter instead of following the upper wall of the urethra slips into the a ladder.—(Moulin) (a). •ioi. According to Amcssat’s plan (6), the Surgeon, standing on the Tight side or between “e legs of the patient sitting on the edge of a bed, with his feet on two chairs, draws e penis down with the left hand, till it be parallel with the thighs, introduces the raight catheter with the right hand into the urethra, and readily up to the pubic ch; he then draws the penis still more down, and holds the beak of the catheter rected upwards, which readily passes through the membranous part to the prostate, xq the prostate be healthy, the hand only is usually sunk a little more, and the point of the ,aastrument directed upwards to reach the bladder. If on the other hand the prostate £4 diseased, the operation is more difficult, and no positive rules can be given. It, ,e iwever, seems in general to be more advisable not to sink the hand till the instrument e ach about the middle of the prostate; the point of the instrument also must be > deavoured to he carried on upon the upper wall of the urethra.—(Civiaee.) '1 1817. The introduction of the catheter must always be performed with rt e greatest caution and tenderness; violence may cause severe inflam- it< ation, tearing the urethra, false passages, and great bleeding, i; The obstacles to the passage of the instrument are very various. If * e handle of the instrument be sunk too quickly, its beak strikes against fit e pubic bones, and a firm resistance is felt: it must then be drawn back, nc id introduced rather deeper before the handle is again sunk. In difficult i , ises, it may be ascertained by the finger passed into the rectum, whether [ft e catheter be beneath the pubic bones. If the instrument be introduced /do low, or its beak be found in a wrong direction, when it either pushes M e membranous part into a blind sac, or thrusts against a fold of the a ternal membrane of the urethra, it must be drawn a little back, the ring a i the right side of the handle attentively observed, and the catheter pushed itl rwards in the proper direction. The forefinger of the left hand passed ) the rectum can sustain the proper direction of the instrument. The >u itrance of the catheter is often opposed by spasm, or by swelling of the talustate. In the former case the catheter is to be held quietly, the V) rrinceum rubbed, and then the instrument pressed forward in the proper dr rection. In swelling of the prostate, the method to be adopted has * ‘er> already described (par. 1807.) Elastic catheters, when stopped by day obstacle, will often pass, if the iron stilette be withdrawn about an i ;ch,and the catheter then pushed forwards. In strictures of the urethra, catheter may sometimes be passed, if a bougie have been previously introduced, and allowed to remain some hours. In difficult cases catheters different sizes must be used, 1818. When the catheter has entered the bladder it is known by its ntee motion, by the direction of its handle, which sinks between the thighs, vtid by the flow of the urine, when the stilette is withdrawn. If the flow '(t prevented by thick mucus or clots of blood, which get into the holes or < to the canal of the instrument, the obstacle must be removed by injecting lukewarm water, or by introducing the stilette, or the water must be i-awn off by a syringe attached to the outer end of the catheter. In paralytic retention, pressure upon the lower part of the belly is often picessary to empty the bladder completely. If there be much difficulty in introducing the catheter, it is best to let * remain 5 ds aperture may be plugged, and it may be fastened by a ivl da n R,',cn‘inrf d’Ur‘nc W P. Eo°t, Divert, du Cathetcrisme exerce : P^,,1^.Par avec la Sonde droite. Stra,b„ 1825. 4to.