323 STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. )und, made of modeller’s wax, may be employed, with which slight pressure may be ,}1 je against the stricture, and an impression of it obtained as I have sometimes Served (2). f n) The practice here recommended, of protruding the tongue, preparatory to i ;ing the sound or bougie, and which, I believe, was first recommended by Home, is v y objectionable, as in proportion must the epiglottis be raised, and greater facility for ,u entrance of the instrument into the windpipe afforded. Moreover, it is quite need- as the passage into the beginning of the oesophagus is rendered easy by placing two \ ;ers of the left hand upon the tongue, and pressing it into the bottom of the mouth, ® ch readily exposes the whole cavity of the pharynx. fjl 2) Asti.ev Cooper (a) used to mention a case of this kind; he had been called to • i-rson with stricture of the (esophagus, and had attempted to introduce an urethral tS gie, but in vain. Another Surgeon was called, who passed an instrument, with # liness, as he said, and then injected some milk and wine through it. A swelling uli lediately arose at the upper end of the breastbone, and the patient cried out, “ Oh 1 :* burn me.” The same evening the man was dead. The instrument had been •li ist through the oesophagus into the anterior mediastinum, into which the fluids had fl i poured. The preparation of the parts is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. i. F. S.] . 606. If in this way much expansion of the stricture can be effected, i swallowing be in a corresponding degree improved, for the purpose of 11 aining a continual cure, a sound with an olive-shaped dilator must be .id, which after some days must be changed fora thicker, and, according furcumstances, for the thickest. In introducing a sound with a dilator, t in passing a common sound, care must be taken that the dilator be 4 bed gently through the seat of stricture, which is distinctly marked by f resistance. The instrument is either moved up and down a few times 4 )ugh the stricture, or, when it is ascertained that its thick part is in the jeture, it may be left there for some time, and then drawn back. I I e never observed that in thus doing the patient has suffered much in- '■* venience. The sound with the dilator is generally borne as well as ul common oesophageal sound. When the swallowing has become J feet, the sound should not be given up, but passed once a week or i night, to counteract the disposition to narrowing again, which I J e also endeavoured to prevent by introducing a seton in the neck for ne time. . ;his treatment has, in all cases of membranous stricture in which I have employed it, < :ted a permanent cure. The dilator is either made of ivory, slipped on the-.sound at ;^e distance from its tip, and there fastened, or the sound itself is furniskqd with a ymg enlargement of caoutchouc at the same place. These dilators are of various ; Jkness, up to an inch in diameter. The mere introduction of a common sound, up to argest size, may relieve and improve the patient’s condition for some time, and may y luce even complete freedom of swallowing ; but a permanent result is not thereby momy produced; earlier or later the disease recurs. UT use of bougies, armed with lunar caustic, for the destruction of stricture of the •4r\ • must considered highly dangerous in every form of the disease, i v * lnft.e^ °f the gradual violent extension of the stricture, employs an oval t iio» 3 °r’ , ,lca be uses either alone or with a sound, or with a sound armed with ;lft’ PaSSe( “*ree or f°ur times through the stricture. * tim^fif1* USCS f metallic instrument, which either serves for tearing, or merely 1 lehcc -,e iStn<Ttur , esophagus. It is curved in front, consists of three close-lying fwigtin J'th "he"the instrument is introduced into the stricture, they are separated fit diffipiiii 6 ,d. . e use °fthis instrument is, in my opinion, accompanied with i whSXJi , ’ln stricture deeply situated, it is not at all efficient. The introduction jading the sSct^^Unot^oper.38&*,roban®’ with a sPonSe ^ for the PurP0Se ) Homk, above cited MS- Lectures- > Philadelphia Mpdili i , (e) Gendrin, Du Catheterisme curatif du Re- ) Above cited. ecorder, Jan., 18-o. trecisseraent de l’a5sopliaee ; in Journal des Con- naissances Medico-Chirurgicales. Nov., 1827. Y 2