696 CAUSE AND NATURE monly originate in the lower part of the neck, just above the collar-bone, of small siz 4 but increase in bulk, covering the whole of that side, and even running across beneat 1 the skin. Sometimes, however, they make their first appearance below the lobe of t! ear, and get attached to the angle of the jaw. As they increase in size they interfe with swallowing and breathing, so as to cause severe cough and symptoms of suft'oc; i tion. Fluctuation is distinctly felt, but they are not always transparent, as thoue. sometimes the fluid they contain is clear and limpid, it is more frequently either lit coffee or coffee grounds, which probably depends on the rupture of some little vest into their cavity, under the exertion of coughing. Maunoir thinks that the cyst fl thicker than in hydrocele of the testicle; and in one of the cases mentioned by FLECBr(a I it was very hard and resisting, and its interior lined with a fibro-cartilaginou covering. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons, there is a specimen of one c these serous cysts removed from the front of the neck by Thomas Blizard ; it is mor than six inches in diameter ; its walls thin and fibro-cellular; a portion of it passed behind the collar-bone, and it contained a clear brownish fluid. Also, another attache*' to the back of the tongue-bone, about two inches in diameter, which contained ; brownish yellow, thick grumous, honey-like fluid, containing abundant crystals o cholestearine. Simple cysts are rare in the female breast, Brodie says he has seen bn two ; and in the Museum at St. Thomas’s there is another. Perhaps here also belong Astley Cooper’s (b) cellulous hydatids of the breast, of which, however, there an generally several in the same gland, as in the specimens in the College Museum. It the same collection there are also examples of a large cyst removed from the thigh- and of another which filled up the thyroid hole, projecting both into the pelvis and thd1 thigh, and followed a kick on the part; both these cases were from females (c). A few years since I had a patient with a cyst on the auricle, which contained a thick brownish,- but transparent glairy fluid; this filled again several times after being punctured, and was cured at last by stuffing with lint, and causing suppuration of the sac. (2) It is probable that these so-called melicerous cysts merely differ from the former in the thicker nature of their contents. (3) Atheromatous cysts sometimes contain a pultaceous white matter, like pap; or, as Home (d) has described it, “ a small quantity of thick curd-like matter, mixed with cuticle, broken down into small parts.” (p. 101.) Some such examples exist in the Col- lege Museum, stated in the Hunterian manuscripts to consist “ principally of a series of cuticles thrown off,” and “a flaky substance, which seemed to be a succession of cuticles, being the same with that which lines the cyst.” Home also observes “ Other cysts of this kind, instead of having cuticle for their contents, are filled with : hair, mixed with a curdled substance, or hair without any admixture whatever, and have a similar kind of hair growing upon their internal surface, which is likewise • covered with a cuticle.” (p. 102.) I have seen in two or three instances these cysts filled with little bodies, semitransparent, and resembling grains of boiled rice flattened and packed closely together, which were probably scales of cuticle. Even teeth, more or less perfectly formed, have been found in a cyst in the orbit, as happened in a case I related by Barnes (e) of Exeter. (4) These are true productions of the sebaceous follicles, and have been already t mentioned (par. 2193, note) in speaking of Horns.] 2250. The nature of the cyst is very various, and has no connexion with the size of the swelling. In those which contain serous fluid the cyst is generally-thin and correspondingly transparent. The cyst is often very firm, tough, fibrous, may be separated into many layers from the outer surface, and often has an almost homy character. At many parts it frequently found bony. The inner surface of the cyst is often smooth and shining; frequently has a velvet-like surface; is sometimes beset "ifl‘ true hairs ; oftentimes it exhibits rather a muco-membranous structure, an irregular, folded, net-like surface. The connexion of the cyst with the surrounding parts is usually but slight, by means of delicate cellular tissue and few vessels; sometimes, however, a very firm connexion >s (а) Annalcs de Cliirurgie, vol. x. p. 3<i. 18-14. (б) Illustrations of Diseases of the Breast, Lon- don, 1829. 4to. (c) Paoet’s Catalogue of the Pathological Col- ic) Med -Chir. Trans., vol. iv. p. 316. 1813 lection in the Museum of the Royal Coll®8® Surgeons of England. r^re«vnoe* (rf) Observations on certain Hornj Eser of the Human Body; in Phil Trans., vol. p. 9.). k v