887 AMPUTATION OF THE LIMBS. nerve reunites, by stating-, that after its division the extravasated blood remains between the ends of the nerve, and that, afterwards, one part of it is absorbed, and the other becomes organized, and forms a connecting intermediate substance between them. Whether otherwise, by the sub- cutaneous division of the nerve, the result is rendered more certain, still remains undecided by the experience hitherto had. It must not, however, be overlooked, that several cases which have been related as subcutaneous neuro-myotomies, have produced painful and spasmodic contractions of the muscles («) ; or it may be doubted whether the trunk of the nerve, or only some little branches of it have been divided (l?). The following may be mentioned as examples of the division of nerves, and at dif- ferent parts. Delpech and Earle have cut directly through the ulnar nerve, where it runs behind the inner condyle. Astley Cooper cut out half an inch of the radial nerve after laying it bare on the radii,s. Abernethy and Wilson divided, above the injured part, a nerve wounded in bloodletting. Abernethy cut out half an inch of the digital nerve on the middle joint of the finger. Malagodi cut out a semilunar piece, of a finger s breadth, from the ischiatic nerve in the region of the knee-joint ■ bwan cut through the peroneal nerve, at the inner edge of the outer hamstring; Del- pech divided the posterior tibial nerve, whilst on the hinder edge of the shin-bone laying it and the vessels bare, and separating it from them. Manovy divided the “I6?'6 bc‘hlnd tile,inner condyle, in a case of traumatic trismus. Bujalsky cut tt both from the outer branches of both the accesory nerves of Willis at their exit from the jn. stemo-mastoideus, a piece three inches long, but without an’y satisfactory irTr' i In ,.painS ln the |iee1’ according to Lentin, deep cuts have been made into t|' nhnf ;,and suppuration kept up in them for a long time. From the energetic appliea- i t on of the actual cautery in plantar neuralgy, I have seen the most satisfactory result. 0 IX.—OF AMPUTATION OF THE LIMBS. (Amputatio Membrorum, Lat.; Ablosung der Glieder, Germ.; Amputation, Fr.) London, 1761. If ■ Ei gh t if Ed ,*tA M n E L’ A treatise of the Operations of Surgery, &c. IEdiHon.’ A Critical Inquiry int0 the present State 0f Sureery- London, 1761. Fourth rAmputation des grandes Extremites; in Memoires de l’Acad »e Lhirurgie, vol. n. p. 268, p. 355. Paris, 1761-74. 4to. ■ 773 WUXIAM’ Chirurgical Observations and Cases, vol. i. p. 38. London, j Pezold, De Amputatione Membrorum. Gotting., 1778. Larrey, Memoire sur les Amputations des Membres. Paris, an v. nettATond?n,'l779.’ °bservations uPon Amputation, and the After-Treat- Kirkland, T., Thoughts on Amputation, &c. London, 1780. 8vo. f If™0"8’ R’ Practical Thoughts on Amputations. Birmingham, 1783. 12mo. IuSSwS. “sP“Sc stiEr***of **•>in "is Vi Bell, Benjamin, A System of Surgery, vol. vi. p. 301. Edinburgh, 1783. : Gratis^notandalu n t d Ligd^Batov^lSOa membri’ prffisertim osseis. amputatione vul- |gtSE7!NER’ Ucber die AmPutation grosser Gliedmassen nacli Schusswunden. Leip- !]. SAEditionUof 1 A™Putat'ons dcs Membres; in his (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. i Graefe, Normen fur die Ablosung grbsserer Gliedmassen. Berlin, 1812. 1u»iSOreRramcauxId|IiBnr«<inf^eUra'gi? Krav<? do la Neuro-Myotomie souscutance; in Gazette Me ramcaux du plexus cervical, gueri par dicale de Paris, vol. ix. p. 205. 1843. W Kivieki, alrove quoted, p. 490.