565 CRUSHING, OR LITHOTKITY. cular symptoms; but if larger, hard and angular, they irritate and wound the mucous membrane of the urethra, excite inflammation, get fixed most commonly in the fossa navicularis, and producing difficulty in passing or entire retention of urine, excite the most violent and painful symptoms. This fixing of the fragments of stone in the urethra is very frequent, according to Leroy in four cases to one, and hence has arisen the great number of instruments proposed for their removal. Often, however, even small pieces cannot be forced out, because either the bladder is paralysed or its neck is spasmodically contracted. 2051. To prevent this accident, various plans have been attempted to set rid of the fragments of stone from the bladder. Heurtelouf with his lithocenose, a straight or curved steel canula, with two side openings and a hemispherical terminal piece introduced into the bladder, injects water, and allows it to flow out again. The small pieces escape with the wafer, the larger get entangled in the openings, and must then be broken up, either by the introduction of a solid tube, or with a toothed knob, which can be rotated (Leroy.) This operation may be often repeated without removing the tube till its blind end is loaded with the fragments of the stone. Heurteloup also uses spoon-shaped forceps in form of his percuteur, and Leroy the small instrument of Jacobson, introduced through a canula. Schleiss (a) has for this purpose constructed an evac- uating catheter, after the fashion of Heurteloup’s jiercuteur, by which he can at the same time inject; and some have also employed Cooper’s curved forceps. All the instruments, however, with which fragments are caught hold of and drawn through the urethra are attended with danger of wounding, and injuriously irritating the urethra, in consequence of the projection of the angles of the fragments. 2052. Fragments of stone fixed in the urethra must be either thrust back into the bladder, or drawn out through the urethra, or removed by a cut into the urethra. The suitability of one or other of these modes of proceeding must depend on the seat of the lodgment of the fragment: if the piece of stone be fixed in the neck of the bladder, or if it have not passed the prostatic part, it is most easy and proper to push it back into the bladder, which may be done with a thick elastic or metal catheter, or by forcible injection into the bladder, so that, when the piece has been there pushed, it may be further crushed. When the fragment has pene- trated into the membranous part, it often cannot be pushed back into the bladder, as the enlargement of the prostate in the urethra which frequently accompanies stone, opposes its return ; it is then more advisable and necessary to pull it out; and the same practice must be adopted in refer- ence to fragments in the fore part of the urethra. 2053. A variety of instruments have been employed for withdrawing fragments of stones fixed in the urethra; some of these were known in old !nies, others have been proposed since the introduction of lithotrity, in con- sequence of the more frequent occurrence of this accident. The old instru- rastruments are, Hunter’s forceps, modified with a movable branch; '■oo-ptnUKTiS meta^*c ^00P> which is passed through a canula, and drawn o er by means of a screw, so as to crush the stone when caught ; o y («) Above cited, pi. viii. f. 15, 17.