403 TRACHEOTOMY. :: peateil dispositions to cough, which alarmed him, threatening instant suffocation. ; * * He complained of a sense of constriction across the chest, * * * had fits of aiiiighing, which came on at intervals of two or three hours, during which he was Smparatively easy. The face presented a purplish hue, with great anxiety depicted.” : liree days after, on examining the chest, its “ appearance was most remarkable. On the ■ i;ght side a loss of symmetry, with evident depression and altered action in breathing. ,Hhe stethescope indicated no respiratory murmur ; whilst on the left side there was the ump symmetrical beauty of a youthful chest, with the common action of that side in i nspiration. * * * On the sixth day the cough ceased, and also the fits of suffocation, r&iaich evidently indicated a fixed position of the foreign body.” On the tenth day it j.ais determined to perform laryngotomy between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages; >bhich done, a pair of forceps invented for the purpose were introduced, and “ acted as a I land, for on their introduction Dickin detected the presence of a metallic body. r#iey were introduced again without the slightest inconvenience to the patient (at least ? (parently so,) when again the point came in contact with the button, which was laid ; | Id of, and removed in their grasp. * * * For several days a considerable quantity of uOico-purulent matter was discharged through the wound, having accumulated around button in the bronchus.” (pp. 419, 20.) In a fortnight the boy was well, and returned hi school. /If after opening the larynx or windpipe, the foreign body be jerked up into the wound, 1 shot through it, immediately after the free admission of the air, the windpipe be exa- ued by passing a straight sound through it towards the chest, and no obstruction be ; rnd it will be right to examine the larynx itself, and the rima by passing a sound i- wards into the throat. The necessity for doing this is seen from the case related by 9 iULETAN (a), in which a person suffered severely from having a portion of tendon of al lodged in his throat; it was so large that it was presumed to have lodged in the 9 ophagus; no relief, however, was obtained by the introduction of instruments, and < u.letan therefore opened the larynx by division of the thyroid cartilage, and on traducing his finger, unawares tlirust the tendon upwards, after which with the i obang it was forced down the throat, and the patient recovered.—J. F. S.] I 1763. If bronchotomy be considered in reference to the three parts at i inch it may be performed, namely, on the thyroid cartilage, on the crico- byroid ligament, and in the windpipe, the following circumstances must be f ,rne in mind with reference to the special object of the operation. »In cutting through the thyroid cartilage, it may be feared, in addition I J, possibility of it being ossified, and therefore difficult or incapable j being cut through, that the laryngeal ligaments may be wounded, and ijat in those cases in which the operation is undertaken, on account of a II ollen and thickened condition of the inner membrane of the larynx, the (K may not obtain a sufficient entrance ; the voice also may remain for a 1 Wig while, or even permanently hoarse, if the operation be undertaken in e larynx. (Peleetan.) il Tracheotomy, to wit, the cutting into the windpipe from the cricoid !.milage to.the upper edge of the breast-bone, is always dangerous; the < ahvays interferes with the anastomoses of the thyroideal arteries; if X arterial plexus of the thyroid gland be wounded, it is very difficult to luoh t bleeding, and the blood flowing into the windpipe causes violent f,n thick-necked persons the operation maybe extremely difficult, even impossible. In children it is always very difficult, on account of tuckness of their neck and the depth of their windpipe (1). If there ' n arlena thyroidea irna, it will certainly be wounded. ir(lsTin° th,6 crieo-thyroid ligament, and enlarging the wound down- ,,,1 • Ir^/^ * * 16 cr'c°i^ cartilage, and the first two or three rings of the ‘’•eons ary^9°'tracheotomia) seems therefore to be the most advan- jp an , hroce(:f lng, both where it is desired to assist the entrance of the > o remove a foreign body, because by this method the arterial (ji) Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. i. p. 13. 2 d 2