823 BY CAUSTIC POTASH; ITS EXTIRPATION. t into a lukewarm bath. In four or five days, when the irritation has ■ passed off, and the slough has separated, the operation is to be repeated in the same way, if the state of the parts seem to require it. Should symp- ; toms of inflammation of the womb and of the peritonceum occur after the operation, strict antiphlogistic treatment will be requisite. This mode of practice, although it will not ever effect a cure, in most cases relieves the patient considerably (a). 2518. It is evident that this mode of treatment is alone indicated, and a cure thereby effected, when the disease is in its beginning, when there is not any accompanying general exciting cause, nor any ensuing affection of the whole consitution ; when the exhaustion is not very great, when there i is not any affection of the neighbouring parts, and when the seat of the dis- ease is such that the whole degenerated part can he removed. The result 1 of the operation is, however, here just as doubtful, and even still more so i than in the extirpation of any other cancerous part ; because, cancer of ; the womb is liable to escape the most careful examination of the extent of the disease. On the other hand, however, it must be remembered, that 'in cancer which arises in the neck of the womb, the boundary between the healthy and degenerated part is in general sharply defined, whereby the result of the operation can be the earlier determined, as cancer of the >! neck of the womb, as it is commonly developed, is a consequence of con- 9 turned local ailment (h). Experience, however, is opposed to those who B have denied the successful result of such partial extirpation (c). But a preview of these cases proves that, on the other hand, the value of the |nperation has been overrated, as it brings about temporary, but very rarely Blasting benefit, whilst fatal results have frequently ensued ; and in the Bauccessful cases the correctness of the diagnosis may perhaps be doubted. 2519 Extirpation of the whole womb, if there be no accompanying prolapse, has by some been considered impossible; by others absolutely Ratal; by some holding out no hope of a favourable issue ; because in the s ase indicating it, the disease has so far advanced that no assistance can |*-:>e expected from its extirpation (d). r Struve (c) proposed to effect a prolapse of the womh hv drnwino- it a™™ (e) Hufei.and's Journal, vol. xvi. part iii. p. 123. 1803. K (f) Siebold’s Journal fiir die Geburtshiilfe, vol. i. part ii. (g) Above cited. (A) Neue Bibliothek fiir die Chirurgie und phthalmologie, vol. i. p. 531.