81 TREATMENT. taken for its cure. If that part of the intestine, external to the belly, be not large, and be reducible, its return must be carefully effected and re- protrusion prevented, by graduated compresses, which should be fastened with strips of sticking plaster and a body-belt. This practice is prefer- able to that followed by Hamilton, who after returning the intestine, applied a stout bandage around the base of the swelling, and brought the edges of the abdominal coverings together, with two silver needles and stick- ing plaster, and the cure was effected in a few days (a). If the congenital rupture be considerable, and its return in a gentle manner not possible, the child usually dies soon after birth, in which case, the external covering of the swelling is thrown off and the intestines are laid bare. Experience, however, proves, that if the swelling be properly protected from all external pressure, granulations may be produced after separation of the external covering, and thus the whole part be gradually covered with firm skin and a tendinous expansion (b). 1233. The treatment of umbilical rupture occurring after birth, is easy. The parts are returned without difficulty, and are kept up with a convex pad of wood, wax, or the like, applied close to the navel-ring, and properly fastened with sticking plaster, and a broad bandage. In changing the dressings, especial care must be taken that the protrusion of the intestine be prevented, by pressure of the finger on the navel-ring, till the pad be again properly applied. Usually, in children, a radical cure very soon takes place, on account of the natural tendency of the navel-ring to obliteration. In adults, elastic trusses, which yield to the motions of the abdominal muscles, are employed. Of the many, and some very complicated umbilical trusses, an elastic truss of a similar kind to that for inguinal rupture is preferable, of which the spring should be well fitted to the fulness of the belly, and its pad project directly from the spring ; or a somewhat concave metallic plate, to which is attached a spring, with a pad, and kept in its proper place by an elastic bandage attached to both sides of the plate; or a plate of horn is applied, in the middle of which is screwed a pad, and fixed with a large, tight, sticking plaster, and a belly-band, by which the rupture can be most certainly kept up. If the rupture cannot be returned, a large hollow pad must be used, by which the increase of the rupture is prevented. Rothmund (c) after completely replacing the contents of the hernial sac, presses the external coverings and the hernial sac through the mouth of the sac into the belly, and thrusts a round plate, corresponding in size to the extent of the aperture, into the pouch lere >} formed. On this plate, which can be kept steady by a stem projecting in its i e, a contrivance is to be attached, which can increase it from two to four ines at the greatest part of its periphery. By drawing the stem, the enlarged plate, nc i no longer can escape out of the mouth of the hernial sac, is firmly applied against mi<1 JJlner "n^er the latter. A somewhat larger plate, with an opening in its “responding to the inner plate, is applied on the coverings of the belly, and nml'f .-f Pr8)ectlnS stein of the first is to be passed through the opening of the second, m-Tv h! «e i by a COntnriue attached to it. In this way the ensheathed hernial sac extent' r mi y compressed, at pleasure, at the whole hinder extent of the mouth, to the infi.mm, f-°me. Imes; and by this gradually increased pressure, after some days, adhesive comnre«Ji°n ^ L‘Xpltcd, by means of which the mouth of the hernial sac is closed, the adherent n Ulrts enslteathed sac at the hind surface of the navel-ring becoming more tlnn throi1 t°it *e mnbiliciil canal. This compressor cannot generally be borne e’ and at most) five days. If the ensheathed hernial sac look livid, the ersten BUdun- ! 1W8 V°L ^ VOL "if der a'‘S5eren I,antd<;cken tie ({rung (c) MUllf.r, above cited, p. 53. a