448 BLOOD SWELLINGS Beitrage Unger, von der blutigen Kopfgeschwulst der Neugebornen; in Klinik. Leipz., 1833. Burchard, J. A., DeTumore Cranii recens-natorum sanguineo symbol®. Vratisl 1837. 4to. Feist, F. L., Ueber die Kopfgeschwulst der Neugebornen. Mainz, 1839. Chelius ; in Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. vi. 1851. Upon the heads of newly-born children there are not unfi quently observed soft, fluctuating, generally painless, circumscribed sw lings, upon which neither the hair nor the skin is at first affected, and the° interior of which, between the pericranium and the skull blood collected. It is usually seated on the parietal bones, more frequently th on the right side ; it has, however, been observed sometimes on the ba of the head, and on the forehead. It varies in size from that of a ha; nut to that of a hen’s egg, and even more. Sometimes, though rare': however, it spreads over the whole parietal bone, sometimes, thou;1 rarely, it spreads over both parietal bones at once; several of the. tumours of different size may also exist on different parts of the sku- Immediately after delivery, they are in general little raised andstretchel but they grow more quickly or slowly in the first few days, when t ■ swelling is less distended and pappy, and fluctuates. The skin coveri it, which was at first natural, afterwards assumes a shining, grayish, re dish-blue or violet colour, according to its tension and expansion. Son practitioners (Levret, Naegele, Hoere) have observed, by theappi cation of the hand, whilst the swelling is on the increase, a pulsation, o: peculiar hardness (Hey, Felder) in them, which, however, neither othe nor myself could perceive. When the base of the swelling is press with the finger, a firm, somewhat raised edge is felt, so that it seems* if a part of the bone were lost. Naegele’s opinion (6) that the blood swelling occurs only on the parietal boners. I opposition to the earlier statements (a) and to the observations of offers, (Momm Schneeman, Dieffenbach, Burchard,) who have noticed these blood swellings on occipital and frontal bones. 1852. In its further course, the tumour, if left alone and not lmmoc « rately handled, either diminishes gradually of itself, the blood bec0®“J] absorbed, and the pericranium re-applying itself, or, what is more usual, j the case, if the swelling be of large size, it undergoes a peculiar son metamorphosis, which consists in a thickening of the pericranium, ana- conversion into bone. The tumour lias a peculiar elasticity and pare- ment-like condition, so that when pressed, it is like a thin plate o 9 which after being pressed down, rises again, and has a peculiar crac ^ The swelling gradually becomes harder, and at last as hard as n UV that like an exostosis, it becomes firmly attached to the other bones; - then by degrees, in a space of time, between four and twelve tnoium, shrinks, and at. last entirely disappears, so that not the slightest trace m can be discovered. T first J This important metamorphosis, which the blood swelling und([£m;V Ffi«t 1 described, and pointed out its influence upon the .'treatment. Althhoi ascribed this observation to Schmitt (d), and has been followed by hig confirmed it, and though Naegele (e) has made no reference ‘o mv name u ject, those, however, who compare my essay of 1828, with those btfo time, will at least not misplace the plagiarism. , . 2 („) Feist, above cited, p.5-7. (rf) SaUburgt. Med.-Clur. Ze.tung., •• j (6) Erfahrungen und Abhandlungen, p. 24,, 1819. Traitc coniplet de lArt UUnT^n^en, vol. Iv. 1828. eoftuwns, voi.ii. p. 596. Fans, 1834. M