1000 OF RESECTION little trace of the prominence of that organ. Still there was no difficulty of swallow- ing, and. the patient seemed to breathe without inconvenience, through the right nares. That portion of the tumour which protruded through the mouth was of a bright red colour, and covered with mucous membrane, having at its upper part the canine, and two incisors of its own side, with the central incisor of the opposite maxilla sticking out of it. The dimensions of this mass were as follows :—From the part near the ear to the most prominent part which protruded from the mouth, exactly twelve inches, and from that part which bulged below the inferior maxilla to the edge of the orbit, about ten inches. It looked, as near as may be, equal in size to the patient’s head. * * * The principal source of pain to the patient seemed to be, from distension and pressure on the surrounding parts.” (pp. 70, 71.) Notwithstanding its large size, the tumour seems to have been removed without much difficulty, the zygoma having been first cut through, and afterwards the malar bone into the spheno-maxillary fissure, with Liston’s bone- nippers. The orbitar process of the superior maxillary bone and the nerve were next cut through with a strong knife, and afterwards the nasal process of the bone. The second incisive tooth on the opposite side having been drawn, the extent of the disease requiring it, the alveolar process and hard palate, as far back as the palatal process of the palate-hone, were then cut through with the bone-nippers,” and now all the strong attachments of the tumour being completely severed, he had no difficulty in removing that mass, carefully separating with the knife the palatal process of the superior maxilla from the palatal process of the palate-hone, so as to preserve the soft palate from injury. The tumour weighed four pounds, it was nearly globular in form, having at its inferior surface a deep groove into which the lower jaw sunk, and the teeth before mentioned projecting from its anterior upper part.” (pp. 73, 74.) The patient did not lose more than eight or nine ounces of blood, no ligatures were required, and a few minutes after the tumour was removed, all bleeding ceased. “ The mouth remained as wide apart after the operation as before the tumour that distended it was removed ; he appeared to have lost the power over the muscles that raise the lower jaw.” (p. 78.) This, how- ever, was gradually recovered, and on the eleventh day “the mouth was nearly as small as it ever could have been.” (p. 79.) The patient completely recovered. Hetling (a) of Bristol, relates a case of Osteosarcoma, or rather, as he says, it should he more properly called, from its true character, medullary sarcoma of both jaws, in a woman of twenty-three, upon whom he operated, removing part of the upper jaw, and part of the lower jaw, which latter he exarticulated. “ The tumour extended from the upper to the lower jaw,.to the latter of which it adhered so firmly, as to render it com- pletely immovable, so that the patient could not masticate, and could scarcely articu- late, being only enabled to answer questions put to her, by indistinctly mumbling < yes,’ or ‘ no.’ In this state she was compelled to live upon fluids, and even these were with difficulty swallowed, deglutition being much impeded by the pressure of the tumour upon the internal part of the mouth.” (p. 279.) The operation consisted in makin nr a crucial cut through the cheek from the mouth to the lobe of the ear, and from, the infraorbital- edge to the angle of the jaw, turning up the flaps and exposing the diseased mass. “ the base of the tumour was found to occupy the palatine and maxillary portion of the upper jaw, and in its extensive growth, its head had been forced down and attached to the ridge of the lower jaw, nearly as far as the symphysis, extending along the whole of the alveolar border, nearly in a horizontal line from the mental foramen to the condyloid process, the whole of which portion was discovered to be eit ier absorbed or in a state of caries, from the long-continued pressure of the tumour. ; fact the tumour had so worked its way across the lower jaw, both inwards and out" 3™^ that it was found buried in its substance, and, consequently, absorption of its bodi ia been going on for some time on both sides of the bone. The substance of the tumou •was next separated by the knife and fingers, from its base and adhesions. When this ; vestige orbit was left uninjured orou was leu uninjuieu. With the assistance of Liston’s hone-cutter, small saws, &£» every portion of diseased bone was taken away that could he safely removed, and general surface scraped as carefully as possible with the knife, it being intended, hnai£ to apply the actual cautery over the whole plane of the diseased bone. 1Ia',,n/nc plished this tedious and difficult part oftlie operation, ample room was found f«r P tating the lower jaw at the articulation; canes having extended as tefore stated, near the symphysis along the whole of the upper margin to the joint. This exte (n) Transactions of the ProvinciiilMedical and Surgical Association, vol. i. London, 1833. 8™. 4