4 SIZE, NUMBER, AND firmly and narrowly thickened, that it resembled a ring of whipcord. Into this blind circular pouch the intestine had been thrust at every attempt I had made for its reduction, and thus both escaped, and shut up the mouth of the sac. The finger could be passed into the cavity of the belly, as freely as before ; but I thought it best to divide this cord-like edge and the indoubled neck, so as to render the reduction more easy, and such was the result. The patient did well. As to the production of strictures in the body of the sac, I believe that generally these depend much more frequently on bands of adhesive matter having been thrown out under inflammation of the peritoneal sac itself, fromsome accidental cause or other, rather than from thickening of the cellular tissue external to it, which, however, may take place, as I have seen it do, occasionally producing, not indeed actual bands or strictures, but merely an hour-glass contraction of the sac. (3) Sometimes a hernial sac is contracted in its middle and assumes an hour-glass shape; such a case I have operated on, but it did not produce any confusion. Occasion- ally, however, it may, as is shown in a preparation at St. Bartholomew’s, in which the sac of a congenital rupture has an hour-glass contraction at the abdominal ring, and part of it is without, whilst the other part is within the belly, and into the latter portion the gut had been returned, and left.—J. F. S.] 1116. The size of ruptures is very different. Often the rupture con- tains the greatest part of the intestines of the belly; often is it so small that it can be discovered only with the greatest care. Of the intestine itself there is protruded either an entire loop or only a portion. 1117. Several ruptures often occur in the same subject. Barely are several, each having its own sac, at the same spot; more frequently, by the protrusion of the urinary bladder, or some other intestine only partially covered with peritoneum, so that the latter is drawn with it, a hernial sac is formed into which the intestines pass. A double hernial sac is very rare, and indeed possible only in inguinal hernia, where a special sac con- taining intestines may drive into the vaginal tunic of the testicle, when its mouth has remained open. Bransby Cooper (a) mentions a case of two inguinal ruptures on the same side; the contents of the hinder, larger sac, which remained external, were returnable into the cavity of the belly, but the front smaller sac with its contained intestine had been easily returned into the belly, by the taxis; he does not, however, explain, how it happened that this thrusting up of the sac and its contents had been effected which is one of the most curious points of the case. [Lawrence says, there is a “ kind of double rupture not ascertainable in general, except by examination after death, or in operating, viz.:—two sacs passing through the same opening; this may happen in external or internal inguinal or crural hernia:. There are instances of even three sacs, particularly in inguinal hernia.” (p. 13) As regards the number of hernial sacs, Astley Cooper says:—“ Two herniary sacs have been stated to pass behind the same crural arch; but although I would ot be understood to deny their existence, I have not seen an example of sacs having two separate orifices into the cavity of the abdomen; but I have known one hernial sac descending into the sheath for the crural vessels, and crossing the anterior part of these, and another portion of it quitting the sheath and extending in the usual direction upon the thigh.” (p. 4.) Fie also gives an example of six hernial sacs:—“Two of the sacs upon each side were placed between the umbilical and epigastric arteries; and one on each side is situated between the remains of the umbilical arteries and the pubes. They passed between the tendinous fibres of the transversalis, which they had separated, anil entered the adominal rings, after which they were covered, as usual, by the/osem, which is extended from the external oblique muscle over the spermatic cord.” (Explanation of pi. x. pt. i.) And he observes, that after wearing a truss, “ although the original sac may be completely shut at its mouth by adhesion or perfect contraction, it is possible that another sac may be formed contiguous to the first” And he gives an instance, in which “ two hernial sacs were found side by side, one open and capable of containing the bowels when protruded, the other contracted so much its not to admit a goose’s quill.” p. 23.) Morgan (A) had a remakable instance of a pouch formed at the mouth of the tunica (o) Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 326. (A) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. S3.