EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. 9S7 2843. Excision of the middle of the loiver-jctw is performed in the following manner. The patient being seated in a chair and his head fixed by an assistant a cut must be made in the healthy skin, beginning from the middle of the lower lip and carried over the chin down to the tongue-bone ; or if the skin be diseased, two cuts must be made from the edge of the lip to the tongue-bone, where they meet at an angle enclosing the diseased skin. The soft parts are now to be separated on each side from the affected bone to the places where it is to be sawn through, at which the periosteum and one or more teeth must be removed to prevent any hindrance to the sawing. At this place a pointed bistoury must be thrust through the soft parts, forming the bottom of the mouth, on the inner side of the jaw, a narrow compress thrust through this opening, and the bone sawn through with a small bow-saw, or with Key’s or Heine’s saw. The other side of the jaw is next treated in like manner, and then with a button-ended bistoury the soft parts attached to the inside of the sawn-off piece of bone, to wit, the insertions of the m. mylo- and qenio- hyoideus, dmded; in doing this, the bone must be held tightly with the fingers of the left hand, the knife kept close to the bone, and the tono-ue pressed aside by an assistant. The bleeding from the spouting vessels of the soft parts must be stopped by ligature, and that from the bone by pressure with wax or German tinder, or if need be, with the actual cautery; and the wound must be brought together at its upper part with the twisted, and at the lower part with the interrupted suture and sun- ported with straps of plaster. 1 ih If A™011'' be °f la,rge lt may be convenient to make a second transverse cut through the former, on the middle of the chin, so as to be able to turn back four flaps The division of the soft parts from the insides of the jaw, after having sawn it irough as above mentioned, is more convenient and easy than first separating the soft p< rts and then sawing. A narrow compress introduced and properly held by an assistant is a better guard than a spatula, strap of leather, horn; or leaden platefand jj ' e‘ . Rawing the bone obliquely from before backwards as recommended by many, unle,s something more of the healthy bone can be thereby preserved as also the ends of the bone together, is objectionable. The same also applies to Delpechs advice, that the ends of the bone should correspond on both sides^ven if ‘hat PurPose it be requisite to remove more healthy bone on the sound side Dim 111 a case, where, by bringing the ends of the bone together, danger of suffocation was caused by the pressure of the tongue-bone, kept them together at proper distance *tba P'cceof gold wire, and united the wound. The distance between the ends of the bone gradually diminished and they became firmly connected °f Only af ter removal of a small portion of the chin are the ends of the bone united bv a callus-Uke tough tissue; generally and after the large loss of bone a hard for Shewing °“B -U- “ hLever, te tougto* draw the tongue forward and fix if its retract on 1 8 unn®cessary to ss teiisrthe- a^arr f? “ ~ No,”bur’18!2'"‘°“e i ''iV Ueher Hescclioti cles Unterkiefera • ■n Heidelberg. Medic. Annalen, vol. i. part i. ’ tmns>aicd; in L:mcet>