TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE WOMB 822 there be a luxuriant growth of granulations they must, be touched with * nitrate of silver. In two or three weeks at most the wound has scarred (a), j ] Can ell a (b) has given a peculiar speculum vayincc, together with forceps and a i -i curved knife, with which, when the neck of the womb is drawn into the cavity of the speculum, the degenerated part may be cut off. J. Hatin (c) has also proposed a speculum vagina, which may be expanded at plea-jj sure, and by it an instrument can be introduced into the cavity of the womb, for the*j purpose of fixing it, and then with a jointed uterotome the projecting part of the neck i of the womb can be cut off. von Walther, in a case, the account of which is still to be expected, first separated! the pubic arch, and then cut off the neck of the womb. When the neck of the womb, on account of its softening or destruction, will not J permit the application pf the forceps, the vagina and peritonaeum must, according to j Recamler, be cut into before and behind, and the womb then seized with the forceps,'* drawn down, and the degenerated part cut off. Lisfranc id) employs a speculum vaginae, consisting of two half cylinders of tin connected by a hinge, and which may be separated from each other. After its intro- duction, the enlarged neck of the womb can be seen, and the necessary instruments introduced. With Musedx’s hook-forceps, made longer and stronger than usual* he seizes the neck of the womb, and with an artificial lever, acting for from five' to fifteen minutes, produces a prolapse, and cuts off the degenerated part with a bistoury at several small strokes. Colombat (e) has, for the purpose of preventing the pain in drawing down the womb, invented a hysterotome, with which, after the introduction of the speculum vagina, the neck of the womb can be seized and cut off. Bellini (f) has invented a spoon, with a cutting edge in front and a long curved handle; and Cenolli (y) and Aronsohn (/i) other instruments for extirpating the neck of the womb. 2516. When the degenerated neck of the womb is so soft that it cannot in any way be fixed without tearing, or when the disease recurs after it has been removed, its destruction by caustic is indicated. For this pur- pose Recamier uses nitrate of silver, and Dupuytken nitrate of mercury dissolved in nitric acid, and caustic potash, which is preferable. Mayor’s (i) practice of tying the neck of the womb with the assistance of forceps! must also be mentioned. 2517. The caustic potash is to be applied in the following manner:-— The patient having been placed in the same posture as for excision, and the speculum vaginat introduced, the cancerous surface is to be cleansed, with a wad of lint, pressed against it with the forceps for a sufficient time. If the surface of the ulcer be irregular and beset with fungous-i growths, they must be removed with scissors curved towards their sur®^'1 or with a proper extirpation-knife. A wad of lint must then be placed below the surface of the ulcer, to suck up all the fluid part of the caustic which escapes during the process ; the whole surface of the ulcer is now y* carefully dried with lint, and a conical piece of caustic potash, at least an ■ • • * ** * 1 1 DC inch broad at its base, blunt at its tip, and fixed on a holder, must applied for at least a minute, unless the patient should suffer very grea ■ pain, which is rare. After this the vagina must be injected several times ■ with water, the speculum and wad of lint removed, and the patient pi (n) Sabatier, Meilecine Operatoire, vol. iii. . !I7. ]821. New Edition. * (b) Cenni dell’ Estirpazione della llocca c del Colio dell’ Uicro et Descrizionc del Metrotomo, etc. Milano, 1821. (c) Memoire sur un nouveau precede pour 1 /Im- putation du Col de la Matrice dans les Affections Cancereuses. Paris, 1827. . un nouveau precede ; in Revue Medicale. 1 , vol. ii. p. 191.—Lisfranc, Memo.res sur lA^ • u tat ion du Col de I'l'terus, par 1828; vol. iii. P P-, :lvji. Annali Cnivenali, vol. (/) Omodei P (jt^Archivo deile Seienzc Med.-Fioehe Ta*»n 1837 : pl. i. 4*. (A) fiamburger Zeilschrlft, vol. i. P*r,^j. ,vi. (t) Archives Generales de Medccine, Matrice . 91. 1828.