EXTIRPATION 826 then introduced his whole hand into the vagina, and two fingers through the opening in the peritonceum; upon these, a hook, which he fixed in the hind surface of the womb, and therewith drew it down, at the same time using the finger of the hand he had introduced as a blunt hook to act upon the fundus of the womb. In this way he brought the whole of the diseased mass near to the external opening of the vagina. He now cut otfi the ligaments and the Fallopian tubes close to the womb, and the vagina from the bladder with care, so as to wound neither its neck nor the ureters. I lie operation occupied an hour. Five months after the patient was well, well nourished, and perfectly cured. Blundell also undertook the extirpa- - tion of the womb in other three cases, but all were fatal. Banner (a) seized the neck of the womb with a strong hook, drew it down, and fixed it with a loop carried through it. He then divided, with a semilunar cut, the hinder uppermost part of the vagina, where it is attached to the womb, and separated the womb from the bladder. The body of the womb was then turned forwards, and the ligaments were divided. The patient lost about six ounces of blood, and died on the fourth day. 2526. Delpech (b) considers a partial removal of the neck of the womb as never sufficient in any cancerous affection of the womb ; as every mode of examining the extent of the diseased change is fallacious. Nothing but the complete removal of the womb can be of use. The dangers of this operation are, wounding the peritonceum, tearing the parts, bleeding, and especially tying the broad ligaments of the womb. All these dangers are greater in extirpating the swelling through the vagina, but less in that through the white line, where isolated tying of the vessels is possible. In one case, Delpech made a semilunar cut through the skin above the pubic symphysis, and another in its axis in the peritonceum. With one finger in the vagina and another in the wound, he passed a pharyngotome through the vagina, and thrust it through the upper wound, whilst a hollow cylinder kept up the vagina. He then passed an elastic sound, an a metallic loop, drew the broad ligaments into the tube, divided them, and tied the vessels singly. A loop was next carried round the womb, which was then cut off. The result was fatal, in consequence, as Delpech supposes, of the tying. . For the removal of the womb, whilst still in its place, Delpech g the following directions: first, separation of the bladder from the ''°® through the vagina, after having passed a catheter into the bladder ; finger to be pressed up to the peritonceum, which must be penetrate! "1 _ the finger-nail; second, a cut above the pubic symphysis, in wliic i a fem circular flap is first formed through the skin, and the white line w 1,c' at its base being divided to the extent of five inches, the perito lifted up with the forceps, and cut into ; third, one finger being then pa^ from above downwards between the bladder and the womb, to the on other side of the neck of the latter, raises the corresponding part o bottom of the vagina, and with it the lateral ligament of the "O that side into the wound. A cut is now made upon the huger l { an elevator in its stead, from above downwards, and as each vess through it is tied. The other side is managed in the sa™e./^^ivided, womb is then pulled forwards, and its connexion with the rcctui and a sponge passed into the vagina Me (a) London Medical Gazette, vol. ii. p. 582. 1828. (/>) Mi-moire sur PAblalion dePU^i morial dcs Hupitanx du Midi. Oct., IWti V