540 STONE IN THE KIDNEYS, DIAGNOSIS J /© i ii mass, distending tlie cavities of the organ, in which case, the substance o the kidney is diminished by absorption. The chemical nature of rena stones varies ; they most frequently, however, are composed of uric acid. [In rare cases, a stone in the kidney, if very large, may be felt through the loins. J case of this kind occurred to the elder Cline, who would have operated, had the pa tient’s health permitted (a). Prout accounts for the formation of uric acid stones in the kidney in the followim way:—“The kidney is made up of a congeries of similar parts, or little kidneys, if w. may use the expression, each one of which is independent of the others in its structure and may therefore, probably, independently of the others, become more or less derangei \ in its functions. Let us suppose one or more of these little kidneys similarly derangec <| to the others, but in a greater degree, so as to secrete very little water, but a large pro ; 9 portion of lithic (uric) acid. In such a case, the lithic (uric) acid must be obviously i separated in that peculiar semifluid condition, or state of hydrate, which it is well know- a to be readily capable of assuming. In this state it is bulky, and may thus occupy tin:, n whole of the infundibulum in which it has been deposited; or the quantity may be sup posed to be sometimes so great as to be partly protruded, in a similar state, into thi fl common receptacle or pelvis of the kidney. After remaining in this state for a greater or less time, crystallization may be supposed to take place; the semifluid mass wil j now be much diminished in bulk, and perhaps reduced to the form of a congeries 01 a crystals easily separable from one another, and thus pass off in the form of gravel; 01; what may easily be supposed to take place, (especially when the lithic acid is very im- pure, and combined with a larger portion of the other matters than usual,) it may assume; the form of an imperfectly crystallized or amorphous mass, and thus constitute s nucleus possessing these characters : or something between the two extremes may take* place—the plastic mass may separate partly into crystals, and partly remain an amorphout mass, enveloping Ihese crystals; in which case, a mixed kind of nucleus will bt® formed.” (pp. 207, 208.) Brodie (b) observes, that uric acid stones occur “ most frequently in those who nave led luxurious and indolent lives ; and who previously have, been subject to deposits oi lithate of ammonia, or of lithic acid sand, in the urine. It is this class of individuate^ that is especially liable to gout, and there is an evident connexion between these two diseases. A patient may have been in the habit of voiding lithic (uric) acid cnlculi; he becomes affected with the gout, and the formation of the calculi ceases. In a few cases the two diseases go on together. Some persons void a great number of this km of lithic acid calculi. I am almost afraid to say how many I have known to be voided by one individual—probably some hundreds, of all varieties of size. ’ (pp. 224, 25.) “I have had fewer opportunities of examining renal calculi composed of oxalate or lime,” says Prout, “from their being comparatively more rare. Sometimes they are formed on a primary nucleus of lithic (uric) acid. In one or two instances, I hayi see them contain in their centre an irregular cavity, formed apparently by tlieagg u 'rJa of several imperfectly globular-shaped plastic masses round a substance which la sequently been entirely removed, or had disappeared by drying ; the whole being wards surrounded by concentric lamina of the same substance. It may, perhaps, appear difficult to conceive how a substance so insoluble as oxalate of lime can exist in a p ' state, or form a calculus at all; since, in our hands, this salt occurs only.in the^^ Slate, Ul luirn a ai an, siuia:, m ........... -- -... , . of a powder, and seems incapable of concreting or assuming the crystallize • Perhaps the circumstance may admit of an explanation, by supposing that a so u 1- : 1.....1...1 1 ; with a little lime, is secreted bya oxalic acid, nearly in a saturated state, and in union wim a muc mm., .o ? . portion of one of the kidneys, instead of the lithic (uric) acid in the former case, • this, enveloped in the usual animal matters, passes from the infundibulum into t of the kidney, and there meeting with the lime naturally contained in the urmesecraw* by the other parts of the kidney, instantly combines with it, and forms tl'c [on'! i . J mominr m xrVnMl it IS formed. ailCl tlie aUUim in question ; and that from the peculiar manner in which it is formed, and of animal matters present, it may be able to exist for some time at the tempi . i i :*i ~~ flirt wVtnlrt pnnpretes into a sonu of the human body in a plastic semifluid state, before the whole concretes ™ mass. Whether this supposition be admitted or not, which is a matter of no in P® the facts are certain, that oxalate of lime nut only does sometimes exist as an an P „ mass in renal calculi, hut occasionally in the form of crystals also ; a are difficult to explain, except on some such supposition as the above. (PP- - ; ’ hsil Brouie also observes:—“ Calculi of oxalate of lime are much more rar “jsts nse of lithic (uric) acid. It is not merely that the disposition to form them ) I more < those of (a) A. Coofeh's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 2‘-2. (6) Above cited.