STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 365 j ,»rminating in suppuration and extravasation of the urine. All these , .Tuptoms require, besides the removal of the bougie, an antiphlogistic •eatment corresponding to circumstances, blood-letting, spare diet, luke- arm bathing, and the like. If, during the use of the bougie, an abscess >rm, with severe pain increased on pressure, Desaui.t (a) advises the i ntroduction of an elastic catheter, not to open the abscess, but to let it k -urst of itself, or, if it empty into the urethra, to let the pus escape ay the catheter; but if it be then necessary, on account of the great size sf the abscess, to open it, then always to make a small opening, as large aperture retards the cure. Although, however, I have in several . istances pursued this treatment successfully, yet it appears better, on ac- ■ aunt of the danger from extravasation of urine, in these cases, as soon , inflammation shows itself, to remove the bougie, and to employ active itiphlogistic treatment by general and local blood-letting, bathing, soften- I g poultices, rubbing in mercurial ointment, and the like, and if fluct.ua- j 'an should show itself, by early opening the abscess (h). ft >[Astley Cooper adverts to the not unfrequent circumstances of bleeding from the ethra after the introduction of the bougie; or, it may be added, of a sound or catheter ■ lich has been roughly handled, or after the use of a caustic bougie. He says “ The ssing of a bougie is often attended with very considerable haemorrhage from the sthrcij and mentions a case in which he u pressed a roller upon the perinceum, which stantly checked the flow of blood. A short time after he was sent for to the same > dent, the hemorrhage having returned ; he had been lounging before the fire with a Jt on each side of the chimney-piece; the warmth coming in contact with the perinceum, S brought on a renewal of the haemorrhage. He made an incision on the part, and vided the artery of the bulb; this operation completely succeeded, and the bleeding is permanently subdued.” (p. 225.) I apprehend the necessity for such active treat- * 15jare, at least I have never seen any need for it, and believe that Abernethy’s xle of proceeding (c) is amply sufficient in most cases. “ When hemorrhage occurs is best, he says, “ to put the penis in a tumbler, so that the quantity of blood may be ident. I cover the feet and upper part of the body with the bed-clothes, leaving the ns bare; I then wash the perinceum with vinegar and water. The vessels of the °thra speedily contract, and the bleeding stops. 1 would recommend you to do these oo nngs yourself, and not trust to the Datient or his attendant.” ’rate of silver or caustic potash. The application of both these remedies .AS:a,CCOrdin&as the cauterization is made upon the stricture from he- ,!6f The destruction of stricture by caustic is effected either with