629 LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. t it in a tolerably free stream; and when the viscus admits of injection and a careful ex- ■){* ploration. That the stone may be seized readily, and acted upon without danger to the 1 -■ lining membrane, the bladder should contain at least five or six ounces of fluid.” lining membrane, (pp. 500, 501.) “When the stone is much larger than above indicated, and when there is reason to suspect that the bladder, in consequence of the endurance of the irritation, has become contracted, fasciculated and irregular on the surface, presenting the rudiments of pouches, it will be absolutely impossible to make sure of removing all the detritus. , Nuclei must be left, and very shortly the patient will have five or six stones perhaps lit substituted for the original one formed upon these. The suffering and danger, more- * over, endured by the patient at each sitting, when these are often repeated, in an un- ; sound bladder, for removal of the fragments of a large concretion, are much greater 1 than those resulting from a speedy and well-conducted safe operation for its removal 13ntire and at once. When lithotomy is well performed, the excited state of the bladder fi s relieved by the removal of all source of irritation, by the viscus being put at rest, and ot ts functions suspended, and by the loss of blood from the neighbouring vessels. In fe ithotrity, on the other hand, when the stone is large, considerable fragments are often ia eft, and the irritation is thus greatly increased. The pain experienced in passing rai fragments, is often extreme, and not unattended with danger; for difficulty is often ex- ch oerienced in dislodging portions from the urethra. Then retention follows, perhaps with inflammation of the bladder. * * * Blood too is often lodged in the bladder ms■ rod removed with difficulty. The excited action which follows is perhaps at first slow • ind weak, but it soon becomes lighted up by the continued irritation resulting from the frequent contraction of the viscus, and contact with the angular pieces of the concretion. Jnless a very correct judgment is exercised in determining upon the practice in parti- ;ular cases, and great gentleness observed in the manipulations, fatal results must verv lot >ften follow. J P “ The operation of lithotomy must yet continue to be performed on children, and on to hose of mature age who are so ill informed or foolish as to permit the stone to attain ii< in inordinate bulk. * * * Of late years, in point of fact, I have scarcely been b •bilged to have recourse to lithotomy at all in private practice. At the hospital pa- ( ients yet present themselves with large stones and bad bladders. Then lithotomy is I >oth a less painful and much more safe operation, as already propounded. During the r ; uo uu ptupuuuucu. UUTlDe 1116 ' *niod of the last six years, twenty-four patients have been cut, and all have recovered ! Flfchnnt {IPblflont • f Vi oco notlontc liOTrn Vinn., <->11 C j I • l . j ; j uct,u tut, ana an nave recoverea Ji! Fithout accident; these patients have been of all ages, from two to eighty years, and some r: them not over favourable subjects. So that, after all, there is not much to find fault nth as regards this ‘ cruel and bloody operation,’ when carefully set about.” (p. 503-505 ) ! I do not propose to offer any opinion of my own as to the preference which should be s warded to lithotnty, or lithotomy, as I have had little practical experience in regard it o the former, and am not therefore qualified to give one. But I may be permitted to n. ay that the results of the practice of lithotomy, both with gorget and knife and by N anous operators on patients of all ages and under various circumstances, during the > ourse of a long series of years at our Hospital, have been so favourable, as to afford I -ttle cause for making it give place to lithotrity. I think it is proved that lithotomy q men properly conducted, is not the dangerous operation it is too commonly held to be- na it is no trifling advantage it possesses, that the patient is relieved at once with a ® .wlTf suffer‘n& sharP ]Ild«'d it must be acknowledged to be, instead of being a r-ir? °pe?tK-nS’ whlch’ the more frequent in their repetition, become, as ' adm'tted, greater in severity, and occasionally leave the necessity for resort n- • ;‘b«cure by Bthotomy. I may also here add the testimony of some patiente who havf | ity fndftat k opeFatlons> that the suffering during lithotomy was less than in litho- ; w’n ^at kn0TirJg botb’ th7 would> lf needful, prefer undergoing the former. It danger as ' oSKdS.'61^0"8 °f Hth0trity t0 lithotomy- the Allowing writers, may also be BtANDIN. Velpeau in Doubovitzki. ” ATTMANN. Becker. Sulla Cistotomia e Litotrizia. Pavia, 1839. N°> homas, M.D., Lithotrity and Lithotomy compared. Ixmdon, 1832. 8vo.