619 BY THE VERTICAL CUT DOWNWARDS. its an inch. Then drawing out the bistouri, with the cutting edge turned directly \A upwards, I endeavoured to divide the membrane of the urethra immediately below * the symphysis of the pubes, without allowing the incision to extend into the con- tp, ti'uious cellular structure. The next step of the operation was to introduce Weiss’s If; dilator, and dilate the urethra, so as to allow of the introduction of the finger, and ;■* afterwards of the forceps, into the bladder. As the urethra now offered no re- <3; ■sistance, this dilatation was readily effected in the course of a few minutes, and * thus the stone was extracted. The patient did not suffer from actual inconti- R nence after the operation ; she could not, however, retain it for so long a time ft' as before the disease existed; I believe not longer than two hours. But I have hi performed the same operation in several other cases with a still more favourable Tj result.” (p. 354.)] 2125. This operation has the following- advantages:—The lower part dtof the urethra has not any bone beneath it, it is very supple and yields below. After the operation, the uninjured lower wall of the MHirethra forms a groove over which the urine flows out without dis- mturbing the cure of the wound above, the healing of which may be as- insisted by the pressure of a sponge introduced into the vagina. Further, f1 the trunk and large branches of the pudic artery are preserved from n injury, and in the event of any of its minute terminal branches ilv}3leeding, they are readily stanched by pressure against the arch of the v- oubes. Great as these advantages are, it must, however, be remembered [ :hat large stones cannot be withdrawn without considerable bruising of »:he neck of the bladder, and tearing the natural connexions of the irethra, the consequence of which is incurable incontinence of urine («). 2126. The vertical cut downwards may be made on the groove of r l male staff, held upright, and its concavity pressed against the arch :lsbf the pubes, with a common bistoury ; or Frere Come’s litholome tiay be preferred, with which the urethra, the neck of the bladder, ud the corresponding wall of the vagina may be cut through down- ■sMivards in their mesial line. This method corresponds to the recto- v-.’esical operation on the male ; by it a sufficiently large wound may u )e made without danger of bleeding, and the largest stone may be extracted with ease, as experiments on the dead, and successful results T m the living, have satisfied me. That incontinence of urine is to *tbe feared with a free cut, and that the danger of a vesico-vaginal diistula is. greater than in the common mode of cutting the bladde °and \Vagina, is refuted, at least by my experience, which especially deter- v-nines me to consider this as the most preferable mode of operating (J>). 9 Falconet (c) heretofore recommends this practice. "» BROMnELD (d) mentions that he saw a Surgeon introduce one blade of a pair V. omton-ended scissors into the urethra and the other into the vagina, and divide he under part of the urethra, up to the entrance of the vagina, 'to the extent of •’ n inch at least. According to Brojifield, such a cut could never again unite, 1 aiT' m7 °f observations prove; but he says, as the neck of fhe bladder : ^pretty well °f Sp r muscle not dlvlded> the patients in general kept their 2127. The cut below the pubic symphysis, without dividing the urethra ^nd the neck of the bladder, is the method of Ceesus. The stone must erfZ PlnSt thG !'eck of the b.ladder in girls by the finger in the 1, and in women by the finger in the vagina, and the stone cut on (k\ p TI , (a) Bekbe, p. 129. IFinbe ; in Hei’delb miniKcli hein» (c) An educcnilo calculo cnsteris nnteferendus ■art i.ls,c„K^R in wn HnmW ■ { n'' aPPnrtt'us lateral“ ? Paris, 1744.-ln llalleri Uis- pondenEhiatt. ' Jnl^iSS'^ No & ™ ^ ^ ivV ?.* '08' •* 1>0, W Above cited, vol. ii. p. 279.