TUMOURS ON NERVES. 766 dissecting, there was certainly no bony spiculum irritating the nerve, and there did not appear any satisfactory reason why its enlargement should have taken place. The tumours seemed to be caused by interstitial deposit of fibrinous matter among the fibrils of the nerves, which were principally spread out on their surface. Astley.- c Cooper amputated his case at the shoulder-joint, and there was no recurrence of the symptoms. Henry Cline thought that the retraction of the stump depended on the irritation of the diseased ends of the nerves, and that if these were removed, ampu- ; tation would not be needed. He, therefore, cut through the skin over the swellings,.- i. also through the nervous trunks above them, and left the bone and other parts un- disturbed. The result proved the justness of his opinion. There was no recurrences« of swelling of the nerves, nor pain, and the stump gradually filled out, ceased to be conical, and resumed the ordinary appearance. From comparison of these two> modes of practice, I should not think it warrantable to perform a second amputation at any distance above the stump ; I should be inclined to follow Henry Cline’s method; d and if there were reason to think this could not be satisfactorily managed, I should 1 merely amputate so high above the nervous tumours as would appear necessary to. i ensure cutting through the healthy nerve. I have an indistinct remembrance that Tyrrell pursued the latter practice in one instance successfully, but I have not any note of it, so that I mention it with doubt. j I Sometimes, however, neither of these methods are of any permanent service, as the: 1 painful affection of the nerves is not confined to their extremities. A remarkable case, s of this kind is mentioned by Mayo (a), in which, on account of this condition, ampu- i tation was performed a second time. “ On examination, the sciatic nerve and the- ! saphenous nerve were found to terminate in large callous bulbs. In the second operas { tion, care was taken to draw out and remove a considerable portion of the sciatic nerve,': * which, retracting, lay well covered among the muscles. Nevertheless, when the stump: 1 had nearly healed, the old pain again commenced.” (p. 140.) He afterwards cut down' :> on the sciatic nerve, where covered by the lower edge of the m. glutceus maximus,. t divided and removed a portion of it, but with only temporary benefit. He thought that amputation at the hip-joint might possibly have cured this, as amputation at the shoulder- < joint had put an end to a similar neuralgia in the fore-arm, which had been unsuccess-- « fully amputated a second time. I must confess I should feel little disposed to perform- 1 a third amputation in a case of this kind.—J. F. S. J The following writers may be consulted on tumours of the nerves:— Viel-IIautmernil, Considerations generales sur le Cancer. Paris, 1807. Alexander, Dissert, de Tumoribus Nervorum. Ludg. Bat., 1810. Spangenberc, Ueber Nervenanschwellungeu ; in Horn’s Archiv., vol. v. p. 306. Neumann, Geschichte einer Nervenanschwellung ; in von Siebold’s Sanimlunf s seltener cliirurg. Beobacht., vol. i. p. 54. Weinhold, Ideen fiber die abnorme Metamorpliosen der ITighmorshokle, p. 184. Aronsoun, J. L., Observations sur les Tumeurs developpees dans les Nerfs.; avec fig i col. Strasbourg, 1822. 4to. Cuelius ; in Ileidlb. klinisch. Annalen, vol. ii. Wood, William, Observations on Neuroma, with cases, &c.; in Transact, o Med.-Chir. of Edinburgh, vol. iii. p. 367. Baumeister, Dissert, de Tumoribus Nervorum. Bonn®, 1833. FIasler, Dissert, de Neuromate. Turici, 1835. 1 Struck, Dissert, sistens observationem Fungi medullaris Nervi roediani. wj'J phi®, 1836. , . if Knoblauch, A., Dissert, de Neuromate, et gaugliis accessoriis veris adjecto cuj vis casu novo atque insigui. Francof. ad M., 1843. liaTW 2405. Cancer is a disease of specific character, depending on a P^Y ■ 1 disposition, the nature of which is entirely unknown ; it may be asse to be hereditary, in different degrees, in one and the same person, an ^ - different periods. This disposition is the cause why the treating a cancer is ordinarily without benefit, why the disease appears m .; parts at once, and why even the early removal of scirrhous swe 8 (n) Outlines of Human Pathology. London, 1827. 8vo.