OF THE APPLICATION OF BLISTER-PLASTER. 871 ning, some must be taken from it; the strand or linen band must be gradually thinned, and when it is drawn out, moderate pressure applied. I If there be bleeding in passing the seton-needle, it must be stopped with cold water or pressure. Severe inflammation requires the seton to be smeared with fresh oil, or simple cerate and soothing applications. If the suppuration be profuse, strengthening remedies are to be employed both externally and internally. ’ IV- OF THE APPLICATION OF BLISTER-PLASTER AND MEZEREON BARK. (l esicatio, Lat.; der Setzen der Blasen-pflaster, und der Seidelbastrinde, Germ • le Vesicatoire, et le Garou, Fr.) 2643. The effect of Blister-plaster is more or less severe irritation of S7ap/ ?i°r 7 I?n-e’’ °r s7horter *1™- For this purpose Spanish j ly Blaster (Emplastrum Cantliaridis') is used, spread on linen or leather applied to the part required, and bound on with strips of sticking plaster’ a compress, and bandage, but not too tightly, or severe pain will be pro- duced and the formation of a blister prevented. The time a blister should remain on varies according to the object of its application, the constitution and age of the patient. [The most cleanly, and as efficient a way of producing- a blister with , „i, , • he use of a fold or two of lint, sopped JecetL cSridt ^ applied to'S Jan for a few hours ; or on irritable or thin skin, it will be merely rennisitV7n « J? , , pa,'1 w.th a camel’s-hair brush to the extent required. ReJImier^and TroL^ Jhl "f7 the same purpose, applied lint dipped in aVong soSof ammoffia - P?s,ible, other sealds. and will require at least some little caution in then- use ’ PrmuWa'T ??d a piece of lint, cloth, or paper, of the necessary size iust nreviouslv dfn. J ■? of wine, and passing a match rapidly over it, at once te 'tThVh Jit F' c1U ^ and then the skin may be rem'ovedj leaving thTc” S pe feaSf’andXS Wn'^SS IFShs°;ld th,Et drJ“ss ™ * l»l»»ble PLl Iha, a sltgTlmd Boiling water has also been poured in a thin saucer upon the nan tr. ho hi; , ,i 1‘iistered StfsfcSf*** w” the «*■■*«. some of ,1,0 ; - - Phils’, the B^oided, bv merely lnvimr o 1 lrntation, andean be very easily f ‘voided, by merely a» P"n ^ irritation- and cau be very easiiv <J die plaster and the skin, and if the pi aster "Jo ,pape,rf,or anf ot.ller thin paper between } the paper as if it we J ^ “ -adily • ‘£2*?Pt °Ur8’ W,’ich «“ ’ght hours. But wbh oh; 1,1 • ...m ™ost persons will take place in six or But with children even this will not do; SS?Kshott.d'beTemoS 1 as (o) Bulletin de Therapeulique, vol. ii. p. 17G.