48 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. I the patient coughs; but this method is irksome and painful under circumstances of acute peritoneal inflammation, and on that account is not so generally desirable as that detailed. Yet much -valuable information, not otherwise attainable, may be afforded by using this method in conjunction with that furnished by compression of the tumour. In some cases the stricture occupies a considerable portion of the neck of the hernia, but in most it is confined to a limited space. In the former case, before performing Petit’s operation, it is desirable to be acquainted with those limits, in order that, ■when extensive, suitable provision may be made for its complete division. The com- bination of the two examinations has this knowledge for its^ object, which is easily attained by attending to the points of cessation of impulse. The point of cessation of impulse on coughing indicates the upper boundary of the stricture, and the point of cessation of impulse on compression of the hernia, indicates its lower boundary of the stricture; and, consequently, the boundaries are the limits of its extent.’’ (pp. 865, 66.) He further observes :—“The probability of the necessity to open the'sac to effect a return, is much increased when the stricture is caused by its thick and indurated neck. * * * When the stricture is situated exteriorly to the sac, a director may generally be easily introduced under it, and it may be as easily divided with a bistoury; but when the neck of the sac itself forms the stricture, no such measure can be adopted. Iu such cases its division should be accomplished by cutting the indurated and thick sub- stance on its exterior surface only, taking the greatest care that the knife does not penetrate to the interior of the sac. If this step has been properly performed, the division is only partial, and little amount of relief will ensue. To render the relief effective, the partial division of the indurated neck should be repeated in oue or two other situations on the circumference of the stricture, by which, at length, the stric- turing substance is so far weakened in its power of resistance, especially when unsup- ported by surrounding structures, that it becomes susceptible of dilatation by the very moderate interior pressure of the hernial contents during the efforts of the taxis. Suc- cess does not frequently attend the first efforts, so that renewed partial divisions, and renewed efforts, are mostly required; and, however unpromising such cases maybe, experience enables me to state, that in this way they often admit of relief without the necessity of opening the sac. The proportion of failures in the attempt is, from its | nature greater than that which is experienced in hernia:, strictured by the margins of the abdominal apertures; yet, inclusive of these failures, I have not any reason to consider their general amount large, having sustained only five failures out of thirty- two cases, on which I have attempted to leave the sac unopened.” (p. 866.) There is much good in the preceding observations, on which account I have so 1 largely quoted them; but the success resulting from this practice, so very far beyoud j what usually happens in cases of strangulated rupture, leads to the suspicion that some i < 1 1 1 1 ]