RETENTION OF URINE 422 affected, especially in scrofulous subjects and in those who when youn< have indulged in venery; after repressed eruptions on the skin, and as th consequence of gout and the like (1). It always proceeds slowly ; voidanc of the urine becomes difficult, and is sometimes completely stopped. Th prostatic humour is sometimes exceedingly copious and viscid. Th direction of the urethra is changed according as the right, left or middl lobe of the gland is swollen. The hardened prostate is felt by examina tion through the rectum ; the patient has difficulty in going to stool; discharge of mucus-like fluid, an unusual sensation about the rectum afte goino- To stool, as if the bowel were not completely relieved. All th: symptoms described (par. 167o) as belonging to stricture, fiequentl accompany swelling of the prostate (2). . In reference to the secretion of a mucus- or pus-like fluid which may accompany th various diseased conditions of the urinary passages, it may be remarked that the mor mucus-like, thick, pus-like deposit which the urine throws down, and which reman loose at the bottom of the chamber-pot, shows a catarrhal inflammation ot the mucot membrane of the bladder ; the mucus-like deposit which draws out in threads, is elaste like white of egg, and sticks to the bottom of the pot, characterizes disease of the pror tate; purulent deposit, and the prostate gland small, soft and flattened mark its destructio bv suppuration. If on examination the prostate be uninjured, the pus comes probably froi the kidneys (a). The mucus from the prostate is not ammoiiiacal; the mucus froi the bladder rarely appears in any great quantity without containing some earthy part rm “ Chronic inflammation of the prostate gland is, says Astley Cooper (»),. th consequence of age, and not of disease. When this disease produces partial retention < urine it should be considered as a salutary process, for it prevents incontinence of urini which, in old people, would almost constantly take place were it not for this preyentm It makes the urine pass slower than natural, but this, may be excused when it is means of preventing a continual wetting of the clothes.” (p. 239.) Brodie observes “ When the hair becomes gray and scanty, when specks of earth' matter be°in to be deposited in the tunics of the arteries, and when a white zone i formed at the margin of the cornea, at this same period the prostate 1 jjj$ perhaps say invariably, becomes increased in size. This change in the condition prostate takes place slowly, and at first imperceptibly, and the term chronic cnlargomer fs not impmpeUy employed to distinguish" it from the inflammatory attacks to whic the prostate is liable in early life. (p. 151.) The chronic enargementofthep^m maybe said to be a disease of a peculiar kind, having no exact resemblance to what» meet with in any other organ. It may, however in some respects be compared to * chronic enlargement of the thyroid gland, known by the name of brmchocek Likert latter it is generally slow in its progress, and frequently, after having reached a certt point,' if proper treatment be employed, it remains almost statuonary for many year It is on the whole, a rare occurrence for it to terminate in ulceration or a.. - the symptoms to which it gives rise, are, with a few e«*g®n£to be influence which the disease exercises over the functions of the paits in the g h°Although enlarged prostate is specially the disease of adv“c^’j[e’ Cooper says lie has “ known it occasionally occur in very young people, ofthis kind happened in Guy’s Ho.pil.l, . bey stone, in consequence of which he was sounded, and the opeiration of lit ' about to be performed ; the sounding, however, brought on inflammation of fl ,v„‘ptom which terminated in the boy’s death. Upon dissection it was found that the Sj P for which he had been sounded were produced by an enlarged prostate. IP- z''n “I have certainly seen a very few cases of it” (enlarged “ in young persons, but the great majority of those you have to treat for t are past the middle period of life.” _ (p. 813.) pniar(red is tha The part of the prostate gland m general considered as specially - ^ ,rr which John Hunter describes as that “ small portion <tf it which he. a T81' beginning of the urethra, swells forwards like a point into the Madder,“ting to'the mouth of the urethra, which can be seen even when the swelling s no ^ ^ dea, able bv looking upon the mouth of the urethra from the cavity of the bla give 1 body. It sometimes increases so much as to form a tumour (ofjdnch HuNT>g g , two engravings, V. and VII.) projecting into the bladder some inches. (P .. (C) LalleMAND ; above cited, p. 152. (f>) Lectures in Lancet. 1823, - ,