53 FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. ■ftnderness. lower port of belly, the swelling. Omentum in labium soft, but in true sac firm and matted; in true sac knuckle of bright gut. in belly, tender- > of rupture. Within first nine hours the bowels thrice spar- ingly relieved by clys- ter. She went on very well, but the bowels were not satisfactorily moved till four days after the operation, al- though she had calo- mel and opium twice a-day, with occasional castor oil and senna and salts. Two inches gut dark- Bowels moved by clyster coloured, bright. and castor oil freely between 12 and 16 I ttle pain in belly II ten pressed. j i pain in belly, and ■ : relieved by the •ration ; no pain nor in swelling. , 1 ing tender but not tenderness, he belly. b pain in belly •1 pain in belly; after ation complained min about navel, :h did not subside. P^inhvbelly, with Contents. Bowels moved. Cured, (stricture very tight.) Healthy, bright, and dark coloured gut. Much adhering omen- tum, four inches of intestine very dark, but shining. Sac divided by transverse band ; hard mass of omentum, adherent in upper portion ; eight incites of dark choco- late bright intestine. Very small knuckle of dark-coloured bright gut. Large knuckle of dark gut, very tense, and peritoneal coat seemed cracked. Half yard of gut, not deep-coloured, but much thickened and slightly ccchymosed. hours after operation. Nine hours after .ope- ration bowelB freely moved by clyster. A few scybola brought away by clyster 22 hours after operation, but nothing more. Result. The inside of the sac had pro- bably burst, and allowed the gut to escape into the labium. Cured, (stricture at in- ternal ring very tight, and like movable membranous ring.) Cured, (stricture tight.) Died 18 hours, (stricture very firm.) Bowels relieved of thin motion 30 hours after operation, not without calomel and opium every two hours seven times ; a single dose of calomel ana clysters had previously been useless. Three hours after opera- tion a few small scybola after clyster, but after castor oil the bowels were freely moved dining the day ; purg- ing came on on third day. Bowels twice moved within 12 hours by castor oil. Within 24 hours his bowels freely moved by clyster ; after which they continued tole- rably regular. Calo- mel and opium were given every six hours, and when his powers began to fail, brandy and arrow-root. Mass of healthy omen- tum adherent, small bit of reddened but not dark gut, size of top of thumb. Died 48 hours, (stricture not tight.) Died 65 hours, (stricture very tight.) Cured, (stricture very tight.) Died six days after, (stricture not tight, but required division,, as also a band below it.) The bowels were not moved till a few hours before dcuth. Fetid smell on opening the sac. Thcadherinmomentum was left alone. The vomit- ing continued after the ope- ration almost to the last. On examination, the intes- tine gangrenous, with mark of separation; intestines si ightly glued. Fetid smell before opening the sac. A deep tough band of cellular tissue indented the hernial sac, which also had a corresponding deep fold. Vomiting continued till death. On examination, the intestine dirty clay-colour; no peritonitis. No account of examination. Died 36 hours, (stricture tight.) Additional Remarks. The scrotum very large, much reddened, probably from efforts and crackling. Much difficulty in returning gut on account of its thickness. In course of the second day hiccough came on, anil some sickness, which sub- sided,but came on next day, and frequently after to the last. Nor was it checked but slightly by hydrocyanic acid. On examination, all the intestines were found glued together; strangu- lated gut not restored ; sup- puration between cremaster and sue. She was, when first seen, very much depressed, and tho surface cold. Three or four ounces of straw-coloured fluid escaped from the belly after reduction, immedi- ately on tho return of the gut. The omentum left in sac. Calomel and opium were ordered directly after the operation on account of tho pain and tenderness of the belly. Egg and brandy, and other nourishment were given without avail. Slight peritonitis; onlv a portion of intestinal tube, size of sixpence, had been stran- gulated, and lay juBt above mouth of sue.