396 FOREIGN BODIES in the body of the larynx, of which there are two examples in the Museum of St. Thomas’ > Hospital. In one a piece of mussel-shell lies lengthways in the leftside of the larynx, wit} ,v< its upper end jammed into the base of the epiglottis. I cannot get more information of i $» thau that the child lived a fortnight after the accident. The other, a case related h> Bollock (a), was a girl of six years, who swallowed a pebble. “ She was seized wit) l a most violent convulsive cough, so that she became black in the face and was nearh lit • suffocated; the paroxysm continued for half an hour and then subsided. The throa t was examined, and an oesophageal probang introduced, but without, however, discoverin) -V any extraneous body. The three or four following days the child merely complaint- 4>| of a sense of soreness in the throat with nausea, which was accompanied by occasiona slight paroxysms of cough with a copious mucous expectoration ; she was also hoars*- u but had no pain or difficulty in deglutition. Aperients and an emetic were prescribed- S > she was not benefited, and, as she still persisted that the stone remained in the throat- ill was again, on the fifth day, very carefully examined, yet there did not appear to be any: <5 evidence of its existence either in the oesophagus or trachea.” As she had not hat ? hooping cough and was constantly playing with children who were labouring unde; > that disease, it “ appeared to warrant the conclusion that no foreign body had passer ij either into the oesophagus or trachea, and that the cough was among the first symptom: jn of a severe form of pertussis. At the end of the fifth day she had marked symptoms o ns inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bronchi, namely, cough, generally occur 0 ring in paroxysms six or seven times a day, attended with a kind of whooping inspire WJ tion and a copious expectoration of tenacious mucus; the hoarseness was likewisi i* increased, while over the trachea and upper part of the chest there was a loud inucou: tfc rattle, which was in part sonorous.” Leeches, and calomel, and antimony were uset \ for some days, and in a month from her first attack she was stated to be “ quite well,' f having regained her flesh and healthy appearance. A fortnight after this, however * she was attacked with symptoms of pneumonia,” and she died in twelve days, “ eigb weeks from the supposed accident; but from the time she was reported quite well to thi t day of her death there was no return of the convulsive cough nor any uneasiness alxm- in the throat. On the day-of her death, however, she again said she could still feel tb< r stone, and in the same place as at first. Examination.—On laying open the larytutjU and trachea a quartz pebble was exposed, lying partly in the cricoid cartilage and partly Ii in the trachea, of the size of a horse bean, of irregular figure and smooth surface; r 5 was retained in its situation by a layer of apparently organized lymph of very con- v siderable thickness. On removing the stone the mucous membrane was m a state o. i ulceration (and the front of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages bare.—J. r. s.) Thaj calibre of the tube was so nearly obstructed by the presence of the stone and lymph a< to render it difficult to pass an ordinary-sized probe downwards. The whole of tht I mucous membrane of the trachea was thickened and its vessels congested. About f < pint of turbid fluid was in the right pleura, containing flakes of adventitious membrane*. ■ with which the pleura pulmonalis of that side was also covered. Nearly the whole ngm and the lower part of the left lung were in the several degrees of hepatization and pura- . lent infiltration, (p. 952.j . , . , , . . <■ ,v,f (2) When the weight of the foreign body lias carried it low down into one ot m bronchi, most commonly the right on account of its larger size, as first noticed by v it may block up the passage so completely that no air, or but little, can pass into lung below it, and consequently it remains fixed by its own gravity-, causing pain in ■ chest opposite the part where it is lodged, which is increased on deep inspiration, is accompanied with “a catching.” Violent cough and a disposition to vomit, or vomiting, occur immediately after the accident, but after a time subside, and an ocor sional dry cough comes on at irregular periods, and in the intervals the patient tolerably well and able to follow his ordinary occupation, or the symptoms ma.v.D*~"?r more urgent, may be accompanied with repeated attacks of/iff mo/rtyst*'and termin '- vlithisis, even although the foreign body have been coughed up after having been re weeks or months. Some remarkable cases of this kind will be presently refer , j.v_ (3) The time which a foreign body, after the first severe symptoms have Pas-'. , may remain lodged in the air passages varies very considerably. The loupes pe ^ which I am aware is that of the female mentioned by Sue (b), who when n M year, had the rump-bone of a pigeon slip into her windpipe; she betame s j^. attacks of hemoptysis and other symptoms of pulmonary disease, but withou ^ till her twenty-fourth year, when she began to decline rapidly. Two yea- * -lh threw up the bone in a violent fit of coughing; but she died eighteen month Qi (a) London Medical Gazette, vol. xviii. 1836. Mem. dc 1’Acad, de Chirurglc, vol. v- P >.533.