628 COMPARISON OF all occasions to lithotomy ; but it is so in a great many instances. I shall endeavour j explain by what signs you may distinguish from each other the cases to which it . 1 applicable, and those to which it is not. In boys under the age of puberty, lithotomy! 1 so simple and so generally successful, that we ought to hesitate before we abandon it 4 any other kind of operation. There is also a manifest objection to lithotrity in tb ti cases, on account of the small size of the urethra, which is such that it would notadi | of the introduction of instruments of sufficient strength to crush a calculus of more tl t moderate dimensions. In the female sex the extraction of a calculus from the blade !d by the ordinary methods is attended with little danger ; while the operation of crush!;, i is rendered difficult in consequence of the short and wide urethra, allowing the wa < which has been injected into the bladder to escape by the side of the lithotrity-forcr i before the operation is completed. In cases in which the calculus has attained a vc I large size, it is often difficult to seize it with the lithotrity-forceps; the operation u « crushing requires to be repeated a great number of times, so that many weeks may elaj - y before the cure is accomplished ; a large quantity of fragments is left in the bladder, <t which the necessary consequence is a great liability to inflammation of the muct -a membrane ; and of course the inconvenience produced by the passage of the fragmei*i along the urethra is multiplied, as compared with what happens when the calculusA smaller. These circumstances form a sufficient objection to the operation of lithotr s in these cases. It is true that they are unfavourable cases for lithotomy also; but I ha little doubt that the latter method is the safer of the two. It admits of a question, whetb f in such cases the two modes of operating may not be advantageously combined, the calcu. a being crushed into three or four pieces first, and extracted by the usual incision afbfl wards. The operation of lithotrity is not well adapted to those cases of enlargement A the prostate gland, in which the patient is unable to empty the bladder by his own effoi 1 unless the calculus be of small size, so that there may be no difficulty in crushing 11 minute fragments into which it has been crushed out of the bladder through a lar I catheter. There is also another objection to the operation in some cases of enlargemer i of the prostate, namely, that the tumour which projects from it into the cavity of t * bladder, makes it difficult to elevate the handle of the forceps sufficiently to seize t si stone easily in the usual manner. _ , . , I “ I have described the dangers which attend on lithotomy in those cases in wnicD,' ■ calculus of the bladder is complicated with disease of the kidney. One of the prmcip f| of these is connected with the loss of blood, which that operation must always occasK-j to some extent, and not unfrequently to a great extent, in spite of the best exertions 1 the Surgeon to prevent it. I have no doubt that in such cases, the operation of erusim-i is the safest method of proceeding; but a small shock to the system will sometun>| destroy the life of a patient who labours under renal disease, and it will be often mou| prudent to trust to the means which we possess of palliating his sufferings, than to n ■ the risk of shortening his life in the endeavour to obtain a cure. * 1 ,.. I exception of such cases as those which have been enumerated, there are tew to wnic« this method of treatment (Lithotrity) may not be advantageously applied. t ,, said that the exceptions are numerous ; but they are the result chiefly ot delay. I patient seeks the assistance of a competent Surgeon within six or even twelve m after a calculus has descended from the kidney into the bladder, the urine 1 remained acid, it will rarely happen that he may not obtain a cure by a sing e Py tion, and with so small an amount of danger, that it need scarcely enter into is lations. As time advances, the facility with which he can be relieved diminis , J after the lapse of two or three years, especially if the urine has become alkn in , probable that the calculus will have attained such a size as to render the old ope (Lithotomy) preferable, and that the access of disease in the bladder or kiduey_ | render any operation hazardous. It would be absurd to say, and it would be un ' 1 able of human kind to expect, that an operation which has for its object to relieve j of a disease so terrible as that of a stone in the bladder, can be always free , n\ venience, and difficulty, and danger. Nevertheless, from what experience 1 liav ' j am satisfied that the operation of lithotrity, if had recourse to only in Pr°Per *■ not only much more successful than that of lithotomy, but that it is liable objections than almost any other of the principal operations of Surgery. (P- ^ ^ ; objections than almost any other of the principal operations —ov , ,1.. a « The operation of lithotrity,” says Liston (a), “ is applicable to patients above of puberty, when the symptoms have not endured very long; when the foreign^ ^ of puberty, when the symptoms nave not enaureu very ioug, » ° ches ascertained to measure six or seven lines, or even more perhaps, say as large « nut; when the bladder and urethra are in a tolerably healthy and normal con as indicated by the power to retain the urine comfortably for several hours, a r- (a) Practical Surgery.