904 COMPARISON OF THE VARIOUS MODES OF AMPUTATION. the calf muscles are so bulky, that it is often difficult to get the skin well over them i they he left, and l do not think the cure is so quick as with the circular. But if a skin flap be made and the muscles cut through directly, I do uot think more time is gamed than by the circular operation. There is, however, a more serious objection to flap-, amputation through the calf, in the greater frequency of after-bleeding; his has oc- curred to me two or three times, and the number of vessels I have had to take up ami the sloughy condition of the whole one, and its tedious union by granulation have al-. most induced me to determine never to operate on the leg but with the circular On any other part, I believe it is of little consequence which of the two operations if performed. Some Surgeons have been accustomed to practise one and some the other mode, and thus having acquired experience, preferred their own method. I have em- ployed both, and shall probably continue to do so, believing, with the exception I ha e made that either will answer equally well, provided due attention be paid to the dressing throughout the whole course of the cure, without which all the objections that have been made to either will most certainly be verified.—J. F. b.J 2710. Opinions are divided as to the preference of uniting the ampu tation wound by quick union, and its cure by suppuration and granulation ; the former method has, however, the most supporters, and is, generally, the most proper. As for the rest, many practitioners have exaggerated- the evils accompanying the cure by suppuration and granulation. W hen?- in this treatment the rules already laid down be observed, the wouM not stuffed with lint, and its union not prevented at bottom, but merely, at the edges of the skin, according to my experience, the cure proceeds as Quickly as with quick union, for the wound after amputation of large, limbs never takes place by complete agglutination, in the strict sense o the word. The cure of the wound by suppuration and granulation u. specially proper for those cases where the patient has long been subject to ulcers and considerable suppuration, where the quick suppression of the discharge has ill consequences, and translations to the cavities o y may take place, where issues and other drains are not a ways able to pr* vent these evil results («). Klein, Textok, and others, have denied. ThVi^MsTDupuytren’s (6) opinion. He considers that dressing of the ampntog» together Only in amputations required for injuries, and which are at oncepe E te cta .he wound; in ell « where long M suppuration have rendered amputation necessary the above treatmen sno ]y recourse to, as with complete bringing together, inflammation of internal pa of the belly, may occur. mode in which 'hoped to produce quick union, whether by st.c.ung » “J -—r" illflamma dipped in cold water. The object is to promote adhesive not suppurative i ^ ^ tion as the patient’s constitution suffers less from the former tha ,j c)iecking } ’ cuVr. niti.lv nuicker The fear of metastasis in consequence of the sudden c. of adrain upon die constitution, by the removal of a limb having a large' " ct 0fnse. is nr in a case of compound fracture or other injury where the discharge * P xoept or ma case Surgeons little thought of, as their experience proves it to ^ Sss =s* s’"»« Rust, Ueber die Amputation grosmen Glledmuien ; in hi. Magimn, ml. P (6) Above cited, p- 417.