284 TREATMENT OF then covered with sticking plaster. When the slough is thrown off by suppuration, it is to be treated simply as a suppurating part; healing follows with a corresponding scarcely perceptible scar. In very much spreading teleangiectasy, if on the first cauterization, the disease be not entirely destroyed, and show itself afresh, I have never noticed its qmckei spreading, and it is always cured by repeated cauterization. In adults, ] have also employed IIellmund’s remedies for destroying teleang,ecta.s\ with the best result; it must, however, be recommended for childra always with great caution, as, in its extensive application, the possibihh of absorption of the arsenic is not to be denied (a). The application o: caustic potash is especially efficient in congenital teleangiectasy, wh.c! appears as little superficial red spots in the skin by which they may Is certainly removed, as every other treatment is declined by the parents o. account of the inconsiderable appearance of the disease. The apphea 101 of caustic potash is, on every account, to be preferred to the actuaj cautery. ?',yth! hnlk ofan orange It was then removed by a double ligature, excepting,] 1518. For the production of a sufficiently violent inflammation andsi.f puration, to consolidate the tissue of the teleangiectasy and «««** vU a mass of scar, various remedies have been employed. First thetrej quently repeated and slight touching the teleangiectasy from its circum flrence towards its centre with caustic potash; by which, after . falling off of the thin slough, suppuration is kept up for:a ^ger ^ ■ children who have not been yet vaccinated, the introm of the cow-pock into the teleangiectasy; several slight punctures I be raade into it and its neighbourhood with a lane,et morstened » lvmnh and at regular distances apart. If there be bleeding, some ljtnp is to be at once introduced into the wound with a lancet, and eienj folds of linen, steeped in the lymph, applied to the tel^ngiecta^y. ^ I form in the ordinary manner, and after the slough falls off, the teleanff . v bos ceased (/>)■ Similar to this treatment is the application * (Hickman) ; after .he ptodo^fj taL poultices are to be applied, and after sepjrat.cn of the s^oag , tuies, puu • , , caustic, and bound up with stiCM and bound up with - („) Heidelberg, klinisclie A.nnalen, vol. iv. p. Med.-Chir. Review, vol.vii. p. 280.—Lancet, vol. xii p. Glasgow Med. Journal^vol. i. p. L in Lancet, vol. ii. p« 237*