810 MEDULLARY FUNGUS OF THE TESTICLE. in which case, the scirrhosity in general attacks the epididymis, but th< testicle, although surrounded with some serous fluid, is either little or no at all altered. Several observations appear to prove that after extirpation of the testicle, its recurrence is to be but little dreaded (a). 2492. Fungus of the testicle, or of the tunica albuginea, is a peculiat disease, easily mistaken for sarcoma. In general, after external violence' . or after a clap, a swelling of the testicle begins, which is often very con- siderable and hard. A small abscess forms, with severe pain, bursts, anc- t out of the aperture a, fungus gradually grows. If, in this complaint, aftei the inflammatory affection of the testicle has diminished, the testicle itself be- not very greatly enlarged or hardened, it is best to remove the fungus anc: : the diseased part of the testicle, without taking away the latter completely, u This is best done with the knife, and in some cases the ligature or caustic l*; may be employed. When the whole substance of the testicle is attacked-ik with this fungus, it must be completely removed. The mere swelling and - . induration of the testicle, often ceases gradually after the extirpation oi i i the fungus, and with proper treatment (b). _ Bj . 2493. Induration of the testicle, as a consequence of previous acute > a inflammation, presents a hard, usually irregular, though not rarely, knobby '! swelling, which is more or less painful on examination, but gives the‘:c patient no lancinating pain. Repeated application of leeches, softening poultices, rubbing in mercu- r rial or iodine ointment, and continued rest, usually effect its dispersion. Scrofulous swellings of the testicle are less hard and painful than scirrhus: the testicle is thereby converted into a yellowish-white coagulated substance, Mii like that found in scrofulous glandular swellings; but the spermatic cord is, for the most part, in its natural state. The swelling, however, tre-J quently runs into ulceration, forms a painful readily bleeding fungus; the:| spermatic cord swells, and not unfrequently there is scrofulous degenera- ■ In most cases these swellings are resolved by proper general treatment, and by the local application of resolvents. f Syphilitic swellings of the testicle and spermatic cord, in consequence of an inveterate pox, arise slowly, without any occasional cause, am. commonly are developed in the epididymis. ,. • _ A regular mercurial treatment most commonly eflects their disp ' 2494. Medullary fungus of the testicle is distinguished from-sarcoce , by the more speedy growth of the swelling to a large size, *ie a . . of all hardness and irregularity, by the very indistinct pain, > 1 sive feel of fluctuation, by the quick affection of the spermatic cord, the spreading of the disease into the belly {par. 2295.) *. nished 2495. Most of the above-mentioned diseased states are distil s. ^ from cancer of the testicle; they may, however, even if !ett J ' fore treated improperly, run into cancerous degeneration. It is, for necessary when suitable treatment has ^en employed without en some time, to extirpate the testicle, because thereby alone is the 1 as^ into cancer prevented. For scirrhus of the testicle t,ere'ted loCal remedy than extirpation. In sarcomatous degeneration, by rep renie- bleeding, by dispersing applications, and by the internal u_e o t» ft * •b 4: si' it1 u ■ 1 Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicates, vol. i p (fcl Lawrence ; in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. J< Medicates, vol. i. p. 16.