324 NARROWING AND 1607 In membranous stricture, besides the above-described, no further treatment is necessary. In callous and scirrhous stricture, the previous mentioned (par. 1603) treatment, both internal and external, must lie I simultaneously employed. Spasmodic stricture requires.the use of anti- snasmodic remedies, especially ipecacuanha in small doses, an the appli- cation of emp. belladon. around the neck. The introduction of the sound has often, in these cases, better effect than any other treatment. t r, i v, the congestion about the chest must be relieved by strict atten- ti.^t^hTmode oflmng, tbe bloid^ust te^Werted^toth^o^^pa^^upp^reswdmra. aud strengthen the cellular tissue connecting that tube to the aiteries. 1 BJ 1608. If the sound be used for the purpose of introducing strong broth, one should be employed which has a funnel-shaped horn mouthpiece. The sensation of warmth which the patient feels in the epigastric region is a proof that the fluid has entered the stomach. Previous to adnmnstenng the fluid attention should be paid to the symptoms described (par 1605> as occurring on accidental introduction of the sound into the windpipe. The Dysphagia Pa™}y£c“ cannot"Son any decided ^tetade^any pm Si 3$ quently there is a greater or less degree of accompany be sufficient!; LoSS” Ite W gSes if lilt. rad. pgrethri especially useful, als. Hi* to the neck, and arnica. I i;v; : h ups It. ft B& yill OF NARROWING AND CLOSURE OF THE RECTUM. Pappendorf, De ano infantum imperforate. Lugd. Batav., 1751. Lit Remarques sur differens Vices de Conformation a 1’Anus, que les enfou appOTtent en naisslce ; in Mem. de V Acad, de Chirurg., vol. up. 377. Stipr. Luiscius, Ueher Verschlossenheit des Afters; in Hufela Journ. der ausland Med.-Chir. Literat., vol. n. pt. u. p. 50. Jolliet, in Journ. de Medecine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie, par Leroux, vol. P Metzler, Ueber die widernatiirlichen Verengerungen des Mastdarmes; m B®* land’s and Himly’s Journal, vol. vi. pt. i. 1811. von Wr, Beobachtungen iiber Verwachsung des Mastdarmes. I t • Copeland, Thomas, Obse^ationsonthepriuHpal Di^i^sof particularly Stricture of the Rectiun, &c. London, > White, M„ Observations on Strictures of the Rectum and other affections. 1820; Third Edition. . . m) Howship J A., Practical Observations on the symptoms, discrimination, an rnent of some ot the most common Diseases of the Lower Intestines and Ant* London, 1820. 8vo. . ,s9n Wandesleben, F , Dissertatio de Intestini Recti Stnctnra. Hal. 1 - • ^ Calvert, George, Practical Treatise on Hemorrhoids or Piles, Stnctur . important Diseases of the Urethra and Rectum. London, 1824. by Salmon Fred., A Practical Essay on Stricture of the Rectum, > 0r(rans v showing the connexion of that disease with affections of the U .^jEditiff Uterus with Piles, and various constitutional complaints. London, - , Hedenus, A.V., Ueber die verschiedenen Formen der Verengerungen und deren Behandlung. Leipzig, 1828. tfif