444 GASTROTOMY. lengthened to four inches and a half. In left-sided obliquity of the womb, the cut i > to be made on the right side. Baudelocque calls this operation Gastroelytrohmy. Physick (a) proposes making the cut horizontal above the pubic bones, and t dig here beneath the peritonaeum. Experience has not yet decided on the value of these several methods, especially uportfl the various difficulties in bringing the child into the world. The advantage o i not opening the cavity of the belly is counterbalanced by the tearing away am ■ separating the peritorueuni, from which dangerous inflammation, effusion, and eollectioi ij of pus would necessarily ensue. [From the account which Michaelis has given of the woman Adametz, it is evident flj that, with good reason, he considers a repetition of the operation as more likely to b< i successful than the first, on account of the adhesions which the womb acquires to the M wall of the belly. He observes, that “ the growing together of the walls of the belly wit) the womb had the most favourable influence upon the subsequent operations. Tbit union had already taken place, at the second operation, at one part; in the third, three places had united; in the fourth, the union was complete as far as the cut extended' ( But I consider that even a partial union has an important influence, by preventing the wound of the womb separating so far from the wall of the belly, that the secretion fron: the former cannot find a free passage into the latter. It has also the advantage in this operation that if it (the adhesion) be above, the intestines cannot protrude there, but , if it be complete, there can be no protrusion. This would be a very untoward condition, if Merrem’s opinion (b) were correct, that ‘ in the adhesion the wall of the belly, in the1 latter half of pregnancy, there would be tearing from the little extensible belly-wall, and thus the flying open of the whole imperfect scar of the womb would necessarily occur;’- and that ‘ in such cases it was not to be supposed that the foetus would be carried its full time.’ Merrem, on the one hand, draws his conclusions from one single case ; but ; nature, on the other, has other means than theory imagines. These are, that the ad-< herent wall of the belly, or the scar, possesses the same extensibility as the womb itself. The first wound of five inches had, in the second pregnancy, lengthened itself to ten inches, and was four inches broad. In the third pregnancy it was twelve long, and five inches broad; and in the fourth pregnancy still larger. The contraction of the: scar after the fourth pregnancy was most surprising, for although the cut itself after some days had diminished to half its length, although it at last diminished from five inches to one, yet was the wall of the belly, at the part where the womb adhered,* smooth and free from fold; but where it did not adhere, were two slight transverse folds.” (pp. 22, 3.)] V.—OF GASTROTOMY. (Gastrotoniia, Laparotomia, Lat.; Bauchschnitt, Germ.) 1842. If a foetus be developed in the Fallopian tube, in the ovary, or in the cavity of the belly, or if by bursting of the womb or vagina it escape into the cavity of the belly, and its extraction cannot be effected by the natural passages, dangerous symptoms in regard to the mother are to be feared whether the child be alive or dead, and there be no signs that it can be discharged by the process of ulceration in one way or other by the natural powers, then opening the cavity of the belly is required. The other diseases which render this operation necessary have been already mentioned. The symptoms of an extra-uterine pregnancy are never so manifest, that before the usual period of delivery the operation can be decided on; although, if it «*n f performed between the second and fifth month, the hope of a successful result is by far greater than when it is undertaken at the ordinary termination of pregnancy ; *or. these cases the abdominal bowels are always considerably altered, the whole consUrae tion of the patient is greatly disturbed; it is not certain that the placentai rw r! X, JO 11 UI U1C pu UCUl. IO IjlUUI J UIOUI1 UVU « vv» «•••« ~ f completely separated; and in the separation of the membranes, dangerous bleem^ is always to be dreaded. In what way also is the lochial discharge to be got nd o It must also be remembered that the foetus, in extra-uterine preguancy, very rare y (6) Gemeinde ZeiUchr. fur Geburtsk., vol.in- p. 338. (a) Dewees, Compendious System of Midwifery. Philadelphia, 1824.