573 TIIE HIGH OPERATION. 1* formed by Franco («) in the year 1561, and he must be considered as si! the discoverer of the method, although Archigenes had previously pro- J posed it. Rousset (5) closely describes the proceeding, and points out its advantages. It found, however, but little acceptation, on account of 5 the still general opinion of the great danger of wounding the body of the bladder, till it was first again performed in England by Proby (c) ; then again brought into some repute by John Dougeas (cl), Cheselden (e), i Pkye(/), Thornhill, Macgill(</), Heister (A), and Morand (i). The lateral operation, however, soon displaced it; but Frere Come’s (j) fortunate experience raised it again for a short time ; since then, however, t has been restricted to those extreme cases only in which, on account of he great size of the stone, it could not be got through the lower opening >f the pelvis. In more recent times it has been performed especially jy Souberbielle, at Paris, with success; and has been defended by Jarpue (A) and Home (l). Scarpa (m), and still more recently, Dzondi (n). Belmas (o), Amussat, Baudens, and Leroy d’Etiolle (p) iave endeavoured in various ways to improve the operation and the in- struments. 2068. The following is the mode of proceeding usually employed in •utting for the stone with the high apparatus. The patient lies on a bed covered with a matrass ; the pelvis a little raised by a pillow beneath it; he lower limbs half-bent at the knee and hip-joints; the head moderately upported so that the abdominal muscles may be relaxed. After the in- troduction of the arrow sound (sonde a darde, sonde a jlc.che) of Belmas % nto the bladder, and the discovery of the stone, the operator standing on * he patient’s right side, makes a cut of three inches’ length with a convex Bistoury, whilst on both sides of the white line he tightens the skin above T' he edge of the pubic symphysis with the fingers of the left hand, exactly |i!a the direction of the white line, through the skin, cellular tissue, and tyHiscia superJir.ialis. Pie now thrusts, immediately behind the pubic IVjrifchysis, a straight bistoury into the under part of the white line, about ftpi inch deep, and ascertains by the obstruction ceasing, and the fat and j-*3>ose cellular tissue protruding, that the white line is divided, and the bis- pury has penetrated into the space between the pubic bones, the bladder, b nd the convexity of the peritoneum. The point of the left forefinger is | ow introduced into this opening, I he peritonaeum separated from the wall the belly, and the wound enlarged upwards by means of a common I d°) Traite des Hernies, contenant, &c , et autres ®4,cellentes Parties de la Chirurgie, assavoir de la 81 >erre, &c., p. 139. Lyon, 15(51. • ('■) Traite Nouveau dc l’Hvsterotomotokie, on s ilantement Cesarien. Paris, 1581, chap. vii.— f ktkus i.e Mekcier, Thesis, An ad extrahen- i. imcalcolum dissecandaad pubena vesica? Paris, .’jjG m Rai.leri Disputationes Chirurg., vol. iv. } Cj-) Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxii. p. 1700. S Of) Uthotomia Douglasiana, or An Account of A of maki,1g the High Operation. I ^ on,‘~ 19.—Lithotomia Mouglasiana. Lonilon, I <'e) A Treatise on the High Operation for the J, ( . l-ondon, 1723. 8vo. >.Some Observations on the several Modes of 'notomy. London, 1724. in 'Iteet tfoN. A short Essay on the Opera- 0,,° , Lithotomy, as is performed by the Ne-v -'hod above the Puhes; to which is added, A ‘■r relating to the same subject, from Mr. Acoui, to Dr. Douoeas. London, 1727. 4(o. ; De Apparatu Alto. Helmst., 172S. (i) Traiti- de la Taille ou Ilaut Appareil. Paris 1728. 8vo. (.j) Nouvelle Methode d’extraire la Pierre de la vessie urinaire par dessus le pubis, qu’on nomme vulgairement le Haut Appareil, dans l’une et 1’autre sexe sans le secours d'aucun lluide retenu ni force dans la Vessie. Bruxelles, 1779. (It) A History of the High Operation for the Stone by incision above the Pubes. London, (0 On a New Mode of performing the High Operation for the Stone; in his Practical Observa- tions on the Treatment of Strictures in the urethra, vol lii. p. 379. London, 1821. (m) Sul Taglio epigastrioo. Pavia, 1820. (n) Line leichtere und siehere Weise, den Stein aus der Urinblase r.u entfernen ; in von Graefe und von Waltii Hit's Journal, vol. xiv. p. 173. (o) J raite de la Cystotomie suspubienne. Paris, ld27. (p) De la Cyatotomio epipubienne. Paris, 13 7.