594 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; pretty well assured, in nineteen cases out of twenty, that he is inis using the ii strument, and that he will get into mischief. The difficulty in introducing tb gorget, and the force occasionally seen expended on it, depends, as has been met tioned, on the operator forgetting to sink the handle of the staff, so as to plac its groove in the line which the gorget has to travel; and, consequently, he ran; the beak of the gorget against the staff, which he continues to hold nearly u; right, so that till he accidentally alter the position of the staff,. or, by dint c force, the beak of the gorget slips down the curve of the staff, it is impossible ft the gorget to pass into the bladder, though easy enough for it to slip from th staff, and get between the bladder and rectum. The want of parallelism of the internal with the external wound is really of c consequence, even admitting that it be greater than in division of the neck of tb i bladder, and of the prostate, with the knife, of which I cannot allow it is. The division, or rather wounding, of the pudic artery, by the introduction f the gorget, might be matter of more serious objection against the employment c that instrument, were it as frequent as Chelius and others imagine; but fror my own observations of the practice of others, as well as my own, I believe very much less frequent than generally supposed ; and the free bleeding whic occurs sometimes in the operation, either with the gorget or knife, for I have see, it as great with the use of one as of the other instrument, depends, I behev. usually on division or wounding the artery of the bulb, just after it comes o from the pudic artery, and not from injuring the pudic artery itself. The use ( the gorget, as a ready channel for the introduction of the forceps, is, as Lheliu observes, of but little importance.—J. F. S.] 2087. Le Cat’s method, which, in recent times, has been especiall modified and employed by Pajola, is characterized by the prostat. gland being in part only divided, and the enlargement of the wouir being effected by a peculiar dilator. ... According to Pajola, the patient should be laid with his trunk t little obliquely; the staff, when introduced, is to be held by an at sistant, with its handle so inclined towards the right groin, that it curved part should rest between the left side of the raphe and the at cendiim branch of the left haunch-bone. The external cut is made, a regards its size and direction, in correspondence to the prescribe! directions, {par. 2078,) with the urethrotome, which is held like writing-pen, with its groove facing towards the patient’s left side When& the membranous part of the urethra is laid bare, the Mi of the left forefinger is passed into the groove of the staff, th bulb pressed aside, the urethrotome thrust into the membranous pa* close behind the bulb, and carried carefully along the groove of th staff, so as to divide the membranous part to the extent of from fag to five lines. The operator now keeps the point of the urethro L against the staff, brings its handle horizontal, and takes hold ot i with his left hand in such way that the thumb is on the upper edge an<. the fore, middle, and ring fingers are upon the under edge ° handle. The operator now grasps the cystotome with his right n | and placing his middle finger in its ring, his third and fourth tinge on the under, his thumb on the upper surface of its handle, ana forefinger on the sheath of its blade, enters its beak into the gr°° of the urethrotome, and upon it into that of the staff, and then ' awav the urethrotome. When the operator ascertains by the * tion which the contact and rubbing together of the two nie bodies affords, that the beak of the cystotome is actually m t g of the staff, otherwise the cystotome must be withdrawn, t»e branous part at once opened and the ,j"st™n’e]'jt JmSk lie grasps, with his own left hand, the handle of the staff, toD j