575 THE HIGH OPERATION. < TELom'$percuteur, with movable branches for that purpose. Many modern Surgeons e< (Baudens, A muss at) object to such instrument for raising the bladder, and pressing :* it forward, when it has fallen together, and is empty, a proceeding which must always be considered venturesome, as Belmas’s arrow sound, or a catheter properly used, is more safe. Dupuytren (a), in a case where a small arrow sound was introduced into t: the bladder, which could not be distended by injection, pressed the stone by assistance if from the rectum, upwards, and opened the bladder immediately upon it. The best direction for the external wound is that of the white line. Home (b) made ■te one vertical cut through the skin, above the pubic symphysis, a second deeper through - v the fascia, and the belly of the m. pyramidalis, and by a third cut made trans- versely, and at a right angle with the first, the insertion of the muscle to the pubic B symphysis, and the loose cellular tissue on the bladder, and then raised it up with the . anger. Le Dr an had previously proposed cutting into the bladder transversely, (p Franck, of Montpellier, also divides two-thirds of the m. rectus transversely. Accord- ’>! ng to Baudens and Amussat, the cut should be made on the side of the white line, aj ;o as to lay bare the inner edge of one or other straight muscle, which done, and the ft nuscle drawn outwards, there is only the thin plate of the transversal fascia to be torn hrough to get at the bladder. Belmas thinks that the cut should be carried down to ft he root of the penis, to prevent infiltration of urine into that organ ; whilst others hold i hat by such practice an earlier infiltration would be produced. *' for cutting into the white line, Frere Come used the trocar bistoury and the len- *; icular bistoury; Leroy a special aponeurotome, and the button-ended bistoury of at Iousset and Belmas ; Scarpa employed a staff. The forefinger of the left hand, which is to be introduced as speedily as possible into ^ be bladder when opened, serves best to steady it, and renders the blunt hook, the fe orgeret suspetiseur of Belmas and Leroy’s instrument, unnecessary. The enlargement r f the wound in the bladder must be made when the size and condition of the stone has s! een decided by the introduction of the finger, in which case, by the yielding of the S PS®8 °f the wound in the bladder, a small cut is sufficient for the removal of a large , one. Dzondi also proposes raising the stone into the wound by means of a button p xed upon the beak of the catheter, and to enlarge the wound if its edges offer much * n,ined with the finger, and the wound cleaned, the end of a piece of half s nravelled linen should be passed through the wound into the bottom of si ie bladder, but Scarpa thinks it better merely to insert it in the space ■'tween the bladder and abdominal muscles, leaving its end hanging out i the lower angle of the wound. The wound is to be covered with lint 0 id compress, and the whole dressing fastened with a linen belly-bandag-e. - .k„4 7* TT 1 v,luu‘ 5^ wvuuu. 11 HS cugw uiier mucil B .ostruction. Home has recommended a particular kind of forceps with a net (c). 2069. When the stone has been drawn out, the bladder carefully ex- tv minnrl nt4 4-1-. iL ~ £1 J i 1 it i.i i /> . » .