vii. p. 1 III.—OF LYMPH SWELLINGS. These have been considered in par. 15-18, par. 59-62. IV.—OF WATER IN THE HEAD, AND CLEFT SPINE. (Hydrocephalus, Lat.; Wasserkopf, Germ.; Hydrocepliale, FrJJydrorachitis, \ Spina bifida, Lat.; Riichgrathswassersucht oder Gespaltene Riickgriithe, Gera t Hydroracliis, Fr.) 1882. The term water in the head, or watery head, is usually apph q: to a collection of serous fluid beneath the coverings of the skull, betwe * the skull and the brain, or in the cavities of the brain itself. Accordi ft to these circumstance, it is distinguished into external watery head, (Hyd. \ cephalus externus,) internal watery head, (//. internus,) and dropsy> I the ventricles ( Hydrops ventriculorum cerebri.) 1883. In external watery head the fluid may be either in the cellu §j tissue beneath the skin, beneath the galea aponeurotica, or beneath t i; pericranium. In the first case, the swelling spreads more or less over t a whole head, often over the eyebrows, retains the impress of the fingerli and is specially characterized as oedema. In the second and third cas. > be the swelling more or less spread, yet it never reaches to the eyelids.) is incorrect to apply the term hydrocephalus to this disease. It requiii merely the ordinary treatment of oedema, the use of dispersive application in connexion with rubbing and moderate compression, and if these 1 insufficient, the discharge of the fluid by cutting into the swelling. Whether a partial collection of water under the galea aponeurotica actually exist,;! i which the swelling depending on it may be confused with other diseased conditions,.-la been already doubted. 1884. The collection of water within the cavity of the skull appea c alone to deserve the name hydrocephalus. The collection of wai r between the membranes of the brain and the skull, is most properly d| tinguished as hydrocephalus externus, and that in the ventricles of t «l brain as hydrocephalus internus, or hydrops ventriculorum. Both cc ditions may agree together in being congenital vices of formation, thece'* sequence of the staying of the foetus at an earlier stage of developmetj Hydrocephalus, however, is frequently first developed at a longer -j shorter period after birth, and mostly without any very decided cam 5 The watery head now to be considered may be distinguished as hydi cephalus chronicus, from hydrocephalus acutus, which quickly ensues,'* consequence of inflammation. The primary existence of external hydrocephalus is indeed denied by many, and il 1 asserted that the water only reaches the surface of the brain by a ‘earing o I cavities (a); it is, however, possible, that the water may be originally secreted as wen theouter is’ on the inner surface of the brain (6); for according to Magesd.es , observation, there is naturally a watery fluid between the arachnoid coat and the. larcoat of the spinal marrow, which communicates with the ventricles of the Ira an opening in the bottom of the fourth ventricle. The same applies to the fluidjiewe| an ODening in tne oouom oi uie auui tu vcmnuv.. a . pvtpn i the membrana arachnoidea and pi a matir upon the surface of the bran. hudwephalus is at all events a rare circumstance; it is not easily d.stingu.shab e fn •H hydrocephalus, and resembles it in its;symptoms, and the treatment it quires fa) Monro, Observations on tire Eye, the Ear, and the Praia, P <7>) Mfckkt. ; Handbuch der pathologisehen (r) Journal de 1 hysiot Anatomle.voU. P-263. 18-.>7,Jan. .38. logic, vol.