POLYPS IN THE THROAT; 738 so deeply, and so directed into the polyp as is believed will hit the poly q in its greatest diameter. The polyp is not in this way at once destroyer' o but a violent degree of inflammation is produced, and it is got rid of b 1 < suppuration. The inflammation, severe headache, and fever, which folio the use of the actual cautery, must be diminished by mild fluids injectetB into the nostril, by due quietude and proper antiphlogistic treatment. J.. suppuration ensue, soothing injections must be employed ; but it continual t a long time, till the whole polyp has been destroyed by suppuration:) When it has once lessened, the polyp may perhaps be torn off, or any sman * remnant got rid of by cautiously touching it with lunar caustic. m B.—OF polyps in the throat. 9349 niroat-Polyps may be rooted in the hind part of the nostril; and grow towards the cavity of the throat; or they may grow from th i| back of the palate, or even from the walls of the pharynx itself. Ihes 1 polyps are in general of a more firm and fleshy nature, and usually attache** by a short thick stem. In proportion to their size, they cause pressur* and irritation of the tissues of the throat, cough, choking, and difficult of breathing and swallowing. The rubbing to which such polyps ar . subjected by the touch of the food in swallowing, very commonly prc duces a continued irritation of their surface, and even ulceration. la* discovery of a throat-polyp is very easy, so soon as it has acquired any size 2343. The structure of these polyps, and the nature of the parts will which they are connected, render it impossible, or at least very dangerous to tear them off; only in those cases where they are attached by a thu | loose stem, con this be undertaken with the forceps. The best mod of treatment is tying them, which in general is most convenient j _ in the same way as recommended {par. 2336) for nasal polyps paSOT into the pharynx. If the polyp more conveniently permit tying throng! the mouth, Desault’s apparatus is best suited for that purpose. Snpri'il instruments for tying throat-polyps are recommended by Dallas W ». and an improvement of the latter by Buauk d). 2344. The symptoms, after tying a throat-polyp, are general]K as, by its swelling, the breathing is considerably interfered with^nd danger of suffocation may ensue. Tightening the ligature and scar to ^ of the polyp are the only means of lessening the symptoms. Weeding, « ligature must be tightened till all circulation in he stopped When the polyp begins to be loose, it may be pulled ofl »» the forceps ; which must be also done when, from t le l)ll,r' ;< t |1|, ^ b, polyp, the stench is unbearable, and the neighbouring parts are affected . method of rotting off polyps is applet ... 1 j 1 tlm rvenilh(KIM'S* ” only to those which are above the narrow passage of the . _ 1 _ • +l,r, urn 11 nf flip fpxnnhnnns Itself, It cau ■' l only to tnose which tup nou-v —~r - 0I)Ij a if the polyp arise from the wall of the cesophagus itself, 1^ ^ ^ be brought into the throat in choking, and88 llFor such easel for a moment without suffocation, it is impossible to tie 1 . ^ fl zlso proposes laryngotomy, which having been performed, and polyp brought into the throat, it may be tied (e). (^Edinburgh Physical and Literary Essays, vol. ill. P- a-3; fe) Operationen, vol. 1. P- b™' gj xttVn'sChirnrg. BlbUoth., vol. ii. part i. System of Surgery, vo.. w. P. M* fig. S. Zcitung, •iS vol. iii* P‘ B«*’