TREATMENT OF CHIMNEY-SWEEPER’S CANCER. 816 affected with a cancerous disease in the scrotum, similar to that which infests chimney- sweepers, and it is singular that Stahl in describing the putrescent tendency in the bodies of those who die from this poison, mentions in particular the gangrenous appear- ance of these parts.” (p. 97.) Although the disease almost invariably is produced in the scrotum, yet in rare cases it is seen on other parts. Earle mentions “ a remarkable instance of its occurrence at the wrist of a gardener, who was every spring employed to distribute soot for the destruction of slugs, which is related by his father in the last edition of Pott’s Works” UeSirUCllOH oi SlUgS, WHICH Id icidtcu vj mo latuu m ^a a vaa « '' (p. 297.) Astley Cooper saw chimney-sweeper’s cancer twice, and Keate once upon the cheek. j- F' e cneeK. (2) Earle states that when from infection by this disease, the testicle “ becomes*! greatly indurated, ulceration, and sometimes sloughing, then take place, leaving a deep excavated ulcer, that penetrates into the body of the testis, which does not appear dis- posed to the formation of fungous growth similar to what occurs when the scrotum is the seat of the disease. The same observation applies when the complaint has extended itself to the inguinal glands ; its progress in glandular structures appears to be more- rapidly destructive, without the slightest effort at reparation. The disease in every instance that I have seen, except one, extended itself to the parts immediately con- tiguous. The inguinal glands are often enlarged, but they will generally subside on the removal of the diseased scrotum, clearly proving that the disease is not commonly j communicated in the course of the absorbents. This is a very important feature in: : the complaint, and one which most materially influences the prognosis and treatment I know but one exception to this rule, where a bubo formed, which suppurated, and the sore assumed the same character as the primary affection in the scrotum." (p. 298.) This statement of the subsidence of a swelled inguinal gland, is very remarkable, and if generally supported, would form a very important and hopeful feature in the disease;* but I am afraid experience does not verify it.—J. f. s. Travers (6) says:—“ The disease resembles lupus of the cheek and eyelids in destroy- ing the skin and cellular texture, leaving the testicles and ligamentous covering of the crura penis, as that does the sclerotic, bare and wasted, but otherwise uninjured, this : sore has no tendency to slough or penetrate deeply by ulceration. The lymphatic glands.fi are rarely, and seldom, specifically affected. tp. 345.)] '■ 2505. The cause of the disease must be considered to be the ingriming of soot into the wrinkles of the scrotum (1). It rarely occurs before thirteen years of age (2), and appears at first to be simply a local disease, although there may be a general disposition thereto (c.) J. The only remedy to prevent the progress of the disease is cutting out*, the ulcerated part of the scrotum, or its destruction with arsenical oint- ment. If the operation be put off till the testicle be affected, extirpation* has in general an uncertain result; and in many cases although the woun have completely healed, the disease may re-appear some months after 1.0). When it has once spread so far that the removal of the testicle is no long® possible, palliative treatment according to the general rules, alone remai 1 r(l) It may be this disease depends ou some chemical peculiarity of c9®1 foreign writers take no notice of its occurrence in countries where woo 1 (2) Pott says he never saw chimney-sweeper’s cancer under the age !jl'j>for'rn And Earle states “ It very rarely attacks persons under the age of ^ty. a very small proportion of the number engaged in the business. The gre®‘^> ^tliree of cases which I have seen, have occurred between thirty and forty; 1 *\ave f^litary instances between twenty and thirty, and only one at the age of puberty. ,mt [ instance is recorded by my father, where it occurred in an infant under eig have never met with any similar case.’ (p. 299.) ,1(TUe Greks. (3) I have lately had under my care a man, for whom my colleague . ^ removed a chimney-sweeper’s cancer nineteen years since; the disease; hav, The return of the disease seems evidently to depend ou exposure to tt ioD) ,t originally produced it, as so far as I am aware, if persons change their occupy does not recur, if removed before the glands have become tainted.—J. F. -J ^ («) Pharmacologta, vol. ii. London, 1825. 8vo. EsnCs', Medl-CMr* Tr»n».i P- 2"* Sixth Edition.