CUTTING THROUGH THE PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. 446 Leroy, Observations et reflexions sur l’Ope'ration de la Symphyse et les Accoucb t mens laborieux. Paris, 1780. Piet, Pense'es sur la Section de la Symphyse des Os Pubis. Paris, 1778. von Krapf, K., Anatomische Versucbe und Anmerkungen iiber die angebliche I .. weiterung der Beckenhohle, u. s. w. Part I. Wien., 1780. Part II., 1781. Siebold C., ET Weidmann, Comparatio inter Sectionem Caesaream,et.Dissections Cartilaginum et Ligamentorum Pubis in partu, ob angustiam Pelvis, iinpossibi j Wirceb., 1779. Walter, von der Spaltung der Schaambeine in schweren Geburten. Berl., 1782.' Micheli, J. P., Dissert, inquirens Synchondrotomiffi utilitatem in Partu diffici Lugd. Batav., 1781. 4to. Desgranges, Remarques critiques et Observations sur la Section de la Symphyse d :i Os Pubis ; in Journal de Medecine, p. 481. 1780. Lauverjat, Nouvelle Metbode de pratiquer l’Operation Ce'sarienne et Parallele 3 cette operation et de la Section de la Symphyse des Os Pubis. Paris, 1788. Baudelocque, An in Partu impossibili Symphysis secanda ? Paris, 1776. Salomon, Verhandeling over de Nettigheit der Sehaambenschneede, etc. Amsu dam, 1813. 1846. Cutting through the pubic symphysis is required in a narrowii- i of the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet of the pelvis of from tv and a half to three inches, and in a narrowing of the transverse diamet. ; of the brim and outlet of from two to three inches. To lay down determinate indications for cutting through the pubic symphysis ■ < difficult, as the experiments which have been made upon the enlargement of the pelv I dimensions, after division of the symphysis in dead bodies, have presented different resul- 1 and it has happened with this operation, as with many others, that it has been, on t one hand, too much vaunted, as on the other it has been unhesitatingly discarded. I indications here given rest on the experiments and practice of Ansiaux (a), from who it appears that the pubic bones, after the division of their symphysis, are capable of separation of three inches, without the sacro iliac symphysis being torn ; that by U separation the outlet acquires an additional extent of ten lines, and that by the entran of a part of the child’s head into the space between the separated pubic bones, a st further space of five lines is obtained. This proportion may, however, vary in sop subjects, which, however, can previously be just as little decided, as can any oaificatiw* of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. In deciding, however, upon the results of cmm through the pubic si/mphysis in the dead subject, it appears to me an important circrn stance, whether the experiments have been made sooner or later after death. According to Vrolick’s ( b) experiments, in consequence of the intrusion of the rmn bone in the parting asunder of the separated pubic bones, the increase of thepem I space is little, and therefore a large restriction of the cut through the pubic symphy» 1 1S Further experience is still requisite to determine how far this operation is apphcah in the artificially produced premature labour (c). Ma J 1847. The operation is to be performed in the following way . ■ patient having been placed on her back on a narrow couch co>crt '' . a mattress, the pudenda cleared of hair, and the rectum and bladder, _ the latter of which the catheter is to remain, emptied, a cut is to hero at the part immediately corresponding to the pubic symphysis, begu • half an inch above the upper edge of the share-bone, and earned the clitoris, without wounding it. In the direction of this "ouna thing is to be cut through, down to the cartilage. An assistant now P the bladder aside with the catheter, and the operator introduces a (a) Clinique Chirurgicale, p. 79 ffcYVersuche iiberilas Zurilckweichen des heihgen s* Beines sowohl im unverletzten Becken, alsnach der Scliaambeintrennung j in von Sikbolu s Jour- nal fiir Geburtshiilfe, vol. i. n. 542.—von H r, Uebor die Austiilirbarkelt un.l den Nutzen des Schaaml’ugcnschnittes; in same vol. i. p. 50>. Orne ; Experiments to determine the applica- rurgicale, p. 79. , . .. . <v,minu bility of the Sectio Ossis pubis i in * le ■ L of the Massachusetts 51ed. Soc., • drotoir ISOS.—Coojon, C., Essai sur la S J nch pubienne. Paris, 1825. 4to. p.r.hccburt,: F (c) Rmhnom, Ibe kiinstbche Pr',hBv ein wichtiges Mittel in der fcntbindungs Augsburg, 1820.