601 THE EXTRACTION. 4, 2099. When the stone is enclosed by a diseased contraction of the * ladder, attempts must be made to free it by introducing the finger, or a it air of stone-forceps, the blades of which must be opened in different direc- I ons before the stone, so as to separate the walls of the bladder. For jf.iis purpose, forceps with several arms, capable of being applied singly ;xiive been proposed (a). If the stone cannot in this way be grasped, its iExtraction must be given up, and the spasm attempted to be removed with itispasmodic remedies, fomentations, and the like. Git: 2100. If the stone be encysted, the operator carries his forefinger to $ue stone, and endeavours, if the encystment be not considerable, to set it [ ee. If this be not possible, on account of the opening of the cyst being na ery small, a narrow blunt-pointed bistoury, or a bistoury concealed in a Kieath and a little curved, must be passed in upon the left forefinger, and I n its passage attempts must be made to lay open the cyst to such extent -p;s may be necessary for setting the stone free, which if its position allow, toay at the same time be raised by the introduction of an assistant’s finger Jtilito the rectum. » Stones which lodge in the ureter and project into the bladder must be _ osened with the finger, carefully seized with the forceps, and attempted In be freed by gentle pulling; as every violent pull is extremely painful it the patient, and drawing the stone towards the neck of the bladder oublesome, however large the wound may be. If the stone lie in a hollow, formed by the protrusion of the lining embrane between the fibres of the bladder, it must be attempted to nlarge the opening of communication by introducing a pair of small atprceps, and then to draw out the stone. The difficulty in doing this Bill [depend upon the nearness or distance of the stone from the wound, w the stone be covered with the inner coat of the bladder, in which Jkse it has been thrust between the membranes at the orifice of the ureter, f othing can be done except proceeding as with a partially encysted stone, r it may be grasped with the forceps, and drawn out with careful move- ments. i' When a stone is covered with fungosities, the finger is to be carried «‘.i3tween it and the wall of the bladder, their connexions separated, and the 1 'one pulled out by moving it in different directions, and if the connexions very firm, it must be attempted to loosen the remaining part by frequent abjections, and by shaking the patient, and afterwards to extract the -one (&). t>. 2101. With a brittle and easily-breaking stone, it must be endeavoured, <7 the introduction of the forefinger between the handles of the forceps' prevent them being too firmly closed, to avoid breaking the stone; tnd for this purpose various apparatus, as forceps with a bag to catch the Vone, and so on, were formerly proposed. When, however, the stone has een broken, the larger pieces must be removed with the forceps, the |inaller with a scoop, and the little pieces by repeated injections, with w.a1ter fro™ a clyster-syringe, the pipe of which is to be passed into i ie bJadder 0n the forefinger. Klein (c) advises that, in this case, as also l en numerous little stones have been removed, the bladder should always fi examined with the sound some days after, for the purpose of ascertain- S|i: (n) r*F.BCIIAMpg vi- flg. 3, 9. .above cited, vol. ii. pi. i. fig. 14, S Klein ; in Loder’s Journal,vol. iv. p. 564. Above cited, p. 380.