SPASMODIC CONTRACTION 330 the dilatation of the aperture with the knife, and a large bougie was directed to be passed • frequently. I did not again see him until he was seven years old, when he was a well- grown boy, but with an enormously distended belly. The anus continued open, though not very sufficiently, and the orifice before the scrotum was still open, and,occasionally iuo. tion passed by it. I was desirous of removing this unnatural canal, but the mother va* averse to it, and the child’s unhealthy appearance did not lead me to expect that he would live very long. I had entirely forgotten him, when, eleven years after, (he being , then eighteen years old,) I was surprised on seeing a fine healthy young man who said he was the person on whom I had previously operated. The appearance of the am could be compared to nothing else than a bullet-hole in a board: he said he had no difficulty in passing or retaining his motions; but it was quite evident, from Ins linen, that there was a continual oozing. The opening in front, instead of being n<*r die frcenum prceputii, was now close to the scrotum, and a small quantity of stool occasionally escaped from it. On examining more closely, I found the anal orifice completely filled I with a protruded portion of the lining of the rectum ; it, however, oflered no obstruction to the finger, which readily passed up as far as the knuckle, and was received into a large cavity full of feculent matter, and running forward along the penncEum, beneath the * membranous part and the bulb of the penis, to the back of the scrotum where the canal narrowed, and would only admit the finger ; with this the opening before the scmm communicated. It was carious, in this case, that although there was an entire absence , of the sphincter muscle, the stools did not pass involuntarily ; the protruded fold of the internal membrane seemed to form a valve which prevented ordinarily theesape of the stool, and compensated the deficiency of the sphincter. I proposed to him the re moval of the continuation of the bowel into the perineum, but he would not submit to any operation. I have not seen him for the last eleven years. J. h. b.J 1618. The narrowing of the rectum, which takes place in later jears, arises either from spasmodic contraction oj the m. sphincter ani, or fiapt * a thickening, swelling, or degeneration of the mucous or other membrane*, of the rectum, or from swellings in the neighbourhood of the rectum, or . from large scars, which have formed near the anal aperture. ‘ !619 The spasmodic contraction of the anus is, for the most part, ac- companied with a fissure, or with a cleft in the folds of the muscle • though it is, however, seen without either. Adults appear to be almost exclusively subject to this complaint, and women more than men. Its causes are very obscure ; it is frequently pr^eded^ by hemorrhoidal congestion, or it occurs after the removal of piles- It**™ probable, according to some, that the fissure is produced by the contraction, than that the latter is caused by the fissure. From my own observations, however, I hold the contrary opinion 1620. The disease develops itself very stealthily ; at first t 1 are accompanied with heat and burning, which, however gradud^ sub- side, and often cease entirely, if the patient take heating drinks, use clysters, and wash frequently with cold water. The sensation oflm | burning soon, however, returns, and continues for a longer time, after ggj to stool. The relief of the bowels is mixed with b food, the pain inC fJ*Jh aperients, clysters, and cooling diet, indeed, produce alleviation, though only for a short time, and the complaint proceeds m spite of their e> pl^ ment Going to stool becomes so difficult, that the bowels cai . be forced eve'ry forty-eight hours, by a purge, by repeated clystere o » jections thrown up every hour. If the costiveness continuemevem day-, ^ relief is followed by pain as severe as if a hot iron w^e thru t ^ rectum; even convulsions and fainting may ensue, and after the r ^ , the bowels, there remain pain, shooting, and beating, taken in | irirt Every violent efiort, the use of too heating food, or , too great quantity, always aggravates the coin plaint, and the j*\ ;n i0. , forefusua'ly taka dot little nourishment. In females, the l«m •*» ■ ■ ■■