LIABLE TO BE CONFUSED WITH CANCER. 793 cysts and sacs must be considered as accidental, and resulting from the distension of certain cells. 2457. Medullary fungus is developed either in the breast-gland itself or between it and the armpit, as a roundish swelling of which the hard- ness is not so great as in scirrhus, and the surface is more regular. In its further growth the tumour softens; the skin covering it, is at first natural, but afterwards becomes livid; the veins swell considerably ; the surface of the skin assumes an inflamed appearance, and the swelling shows evident fluctuation. The pain is less than in scirrhus; the armpit- i: glands swell more rarely; the nipple is not drawn in, and the skin has not the puckered appearance as if covered with scars. When the tumour opens, it discharges a bloody fluid ; a fungus soon sprouts from the open- ing and bleeds readily ; a stinking ichor is secreted in great quantity. Its progress and reaction upon the whole body is generally quicker than in cancer. This medullary fungus shows itself at all times of life, but it is i most common after the thirtieth year. 24o8. The blood-swelling of the female breast begins with a gradual and moderate tumour of the breast, which in delicate women is not unlike he distension and fulness which occur during menstruation, thou°h Cels’ aanC attfiendf1, Wlt,h m°re UneaSy and conti"ued sensibility. By I degrees a superficial hardness is noticed ; the disease, however rarelv ; more thau a fe>v days! its extant gradZlly L eS \ ill all the neighbouring parts have a feel of softness. In the midst soon \ atTrst^he"brelst’ ““v' ff ^ “ SwellinS’ nearly at the part where rst the breast, on slight pressure with the finger, was more sensible ; Th,| first stage has an indefinite period, two, three, six, o^twelve months' f‘ tommlnC ^occasiona% again seem to ecommence. < The swelling feels like a small conical 01 egg-shaped I easily tw^sted^the'fin''^00^^!™ ^ Sur.rounding Parts that it can be I oan f Vlsted by the fingers ; it, however, is so loosely connected that it SZ ImSr , l0mn We '? sWe- Tl« ski" is neither red nor warm; 1e ■ aTal nTmt^Ihe”4, 6 SUf'r <luI1 sometimes an time causes a fei osZf ,1, “ some'v!lat superficial, and at the same : which no V *1 , f .there were some soft body between it and the skin Jhc of this second stage J centiblf • increase of the swelling may be for years scarcely per- I Sometimes hT?™ 8! may °perate which ma7 effect this in nmnths laSL Itt'rz a"d V-y“rmtmom ^ «“ '•tended to™ In the fir Zt of tlle llca*tii must be carefully natives, must be employed If,t’h, ’/“Pf “B applications and pj- vacualion of the blood be , ' 9GCOn£' i moderate pressure, and careful ‘ the hrZZrZuXXert^)81'6111"8 °“* ^ ~ removal ttlrtoriea of Collections of 1717. Riohtkh. Observations ChirurgictB, pi. j Ho dm a n n, J.; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol.xxx. p. 1. 1828. b »