NARROWING AND CLOSURE 316 small opening must be first made in one or other corner of the mouth, (Y whilst lifted up with the forceps; a director is then introduced, and upou it the closed membrane must be divided. 1586. Narrowing of the mouth frequently happens in consequence of , large scars after the operation for cancer of the lip, or after any other t, wound with great loss of substance ; usually, however, the mouth expands r and the lips and cheeks retaining their extensibility, gradually allow its . return to the ordinary form. But when there is a hard callous state of scar with simultaneous great loss of substance, and growing together of , the membrane of the lips and cheeks with the gums, as after burns, destroyino- ulcers in herpes rodens, but especially after excessive and ill- « employed use of mercury and the like, then such enlargement of die , mouth will not follow, and three degrees of deformity may be distin- ; mushed: first, narrowing of the mouth from growing together of the , internal surface of the cheeks and lips with the jaws in which the rater- .. nal lips are unconcerned ; second, the growing together of the mouth, antei the conversion of the cleft of the mouth into a small round hole; third f ■ destruction of the external lips with great loss of substance to a WHfejl extent so that the teeth are exposed, and the jaws cannot be separattM from each other (Dieffenbach.) The inconvenience is various accord-^t ing to the degree of narrowing; the introduction of food and®h® ,n°’'M more or less difficult; the patient often can take only liquids widjj; trouble; the nourishment fails, tartar collects on the teeth ; the smell dl the breath is very offensive, and the like. , »] 1587. Widening of the mouth by cutting at both corners, as former advised, is useless, as the cut always again unites, and the defonm^g worse. The treatment must vary according to the several degrees of naMi rowing and destruction of the lips. +t,r«al-lika» 1588. If the lips, otherwise unhurt, be connected by adhesions to the jaw, that part of the lip where 1:he union J ‘ be strongly drawn down, the tough scar divided, and the adbema throughout their whole extent properly removed with the* knife• or^ . J far as possible, to allow the lower jaw to be depressed. The mouth- a then to be well washed with cold water, and frequently widely opeoed* I and the cure usually soon follows. But if the entire surfaces be pm I together, a corresponding portion of the sound membrane o I must be separated to the thickness of common pasteWd applied 9 that part of the cheek opposite the meeting of the teeth andfeten^ ^ the interrupted suture, so as to prevent the reu i < . h ^ | face by the mucous membrane spread over it. W hen l - the breadth of the lips is narrowed by previous ulceratio O . portionally shrivelled, no advantage will be derived •is they will always remain attached to the jaw s. 1 e j of theyaPerture of the mouth must also be effected in the way abov. mei589. In considerable narrowing of the mouth from lts ^ I gether and firm scarring, which mostly affects one oro mr modc j mouth, or even both, Dieffenbach’s (a) and Werxecks W (a) Rwr’s Magazin, vol xxv. p. 383, and work B'7(n <Ueber> die kiinstliclie Mundwinkel- und Lippenbildung durcli blutige Umsolrlagung der Mundliaut; in von GRAtra und Journal, vol. iv.p. 202. Hu. mode ‘wb5 similar to DiefkbnbacH s, but publislt quentlv.