199 ANEURYSM. ri longer in dilating than might be imagined; but after proceeding to a certain leno-th, g the adventitious coat gives way, and the blood is effused into the surrounding cellular Jl membrane, producing distension; and when the artery is a considerable one, there is d an obstruction to the blood’s motion in the collateral branches, producing mortification. 11 When the artery opens externally, it is always on that side where the artery gives wav miost.” (p. 546.) (2) The mode in which an aneurysm bursts externally is thus described by John Hunter. “ When an aneurism is in an artery whose dilatation brings it to the skin, the coagulant comes first, and obstructs the circulation in the skin; the skin inflames and mortifies, forming a black slough, which dries and adheres to the coagulum. As the slough separates there is an oozing of blood at the edges, which becomes more and ,■ more, till at last in a large artery, as the aorta, the plug may be wholly pushed off and «]the patient die instantly. If in a smaller artery, death will be more gradual.” (p. 546.) ■ Hodgson makes the following good remarks upon the bursting of “ aneurisms, which f£like abscesses, generally proceed towards the surface of the body ; but in this respect they are very much influenced by the situation and the side of the vessel from which i the disease originates. When the sac points externally it rarely or never bursts by laceration, but the extreme distension causes the integuments and investing parts to dough, and upon the separation of the eschar the blood issues from the tumour. A >irailai process takes place when the disease extends into a cavity which is lined by a nucous membrane, as the oesophagus, intestines, bladder, &c. In such cases the cavity it the aneurism is generally exposed by the separation of a slough which has formed lpon its most distended part and not by laceration. But when the sac projects into a lavity lined by a serous membrane, as the pleura, the peritoneum, the pericardium, &c doughing of these membranes does not take place, but the parietes of the tumour laving become extremely thin in consequence of distension, at length burst by a crack Ifjjf hr0Uf "lh!C! tbe bIood ,1S discharged. I have,” says he, “ examined aneu- lsms that have burst into the cavities of the pericardium, the pleura, and the perito- hh °P,emn?vha.S always been formed by laceration, and not by sloughing: 6,/n the other hand, all the instances of this disease that I have seen, in which aneurisms l''npS UP?U l ,ie sur, ace of tbe bot,y or ‘nt0 cavities lined by a mucous membrane the l'ppm85S 6*]be<in the C0DSequeilce of sloughing and ulceration, and not of laceration.” ,his tte bl"dfro"ihe sac anS I7ith?vmn0MmleXi0ned’ I1*"’,a‘Kl temPerate man, 35 years old, was in 1789 affected s"PP°sed to denote the approach of pulmonary consumption but after idetween eight and ninp°in tha • thus amusing himself, he was suddenly seized lie soon after taaTsS SEt kT' .f opl>“si»» >» his V lood were observed HpIw JT ^ the matter thrown up some streaks of vras covered with bed-clothes his ski^felf’cohl ^ ,W6ather was warm> aud he ' ‘ °on after midn^t i,°i„,L. ,Sn /elt cold t0 those who were attending on him. con- with H oon after midnight PpT„k j Y t0 those who were attending on Hnually«p?ctomfnV Jfe ?d ™dera constant desire to cough, and was I cold^t w^LrSf bI°°d-- His b0dy ™ moisten^ «Ie continued get turn woT!p feeblu’ sometImes it was scarcely perceptible ” M ISed dlftaltlCdhe J :bout a quarter past five he sudduidv hpramo ’ sufle,lllg great pant and uneasiness, • lately before his denth, - 7 became worse, and expired. Almost imme- ’ J'othes to cool himself.” On^amimtioT^th?i “ h‘iS ChCSt’ and threw off the ery much distended and ttl l!! , ’ tbe blood-vessels of the lungs were found « he right lung adhered!ghtlyto the'ribs'and ?le quantity of blood in the air-cells. H («) Transaction, of • Pericardium; but this seemed to have J a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, vol. iii.