INGUINAL RUPTURE. 57 inwards and downwards, in the direction of the spermatic cord, as a cylin- drical swelling; the spermatic cord lies on its inner hinder side, and the epigastric artery passes under the neck of the hernial sac and upon its inner side; if it be returned, a peculiar gurgling is heard. 1189. Internal or Direct Inguinal Rupture (Hernia inguinalis interna, Lat.; Innere Leistenbruch, Germ.; Hernie inguinale interne, Fr. ■ Ventro-inguinal Hernia of Cooper) passes out of the inguinal pit directly from within outwards through the external inguinal ring ; it has a peculiar i rounding, a short neck; it raises the inner pillar of the abdominal rino- considerably; the spermatic cord lies on the outer side of the swelling” no gurgling is heard on its return. 6 ’ 119°. The symptoms by which external and internal inguinal ruptures are distinguished from each other, are only certain at the commencement ' ot their existence, and whilst they have yet no great size. When the external inguinal rupture has become very large, it completely loses its cy mdrical form, its oblique narrow neck, and passes directly out of the cavity of the belly. The position of the spermatic cord in old ruptures is equally various; not unfrequently are the vessels separated from each other by the pressure of the swelling. 1191. External or oblique inguinal rupture passes through the hinder (inner) lnguina! ring into the general vaginal tunic, and may descend (o the testicle, the proper vaginal tunic of which it touches. Its own XLT?V tW°reare’ 1 • thf- ^ °f the ™rotum; 2, the fascia super- 4read ’the’ ^ c°mmunts> uPon upper surface of which spread the fibies of the cremaster muscle ; 4, the hernial sac itself an unnatural lengthening of the peritoneum, covered on its outer surface vvith In 0ld ruptures ,hese ia>’ers are of‘“ “f consider- front h,linieSi the fternal ingUinal rUPture does not Pass through the fiont inguinal ring, but remains lying in the inguinal canal • it is ttmr, n n 1 developed inguinal If lure (R^ure in Si ill 5 laial of E„g lsh Surgeons > It forms in (above) the middle of PourlTrt S „ 'C |’r':) 1'? arural arteiT' a round or obliquely oval swelliL CioS arger 7 ?ou«hi"g. accompanied with an unpleS ”Cfinge/witZ *!«*?* and easily thrust bach on appSfo, dready mentioned, this is covered with the front wall of the °bli« “d tha ~ ii myirfist °f ‘h,! ^ - ->» « luscular edge of the internal oblinfe * upPer 0r lnternal abdominal ring, the Rapper J muscles sliP* back, and rests^pon mptr ,w undies of the internal ohlim,« nJtJZTJ'.fT™011*’ and the thin undies of the internal oblimie ■7° tranfversalis, and the thin ie fascia transversalis • it drive" rl 1Una.+ mu®cde> or protrudes with it ie scrotum, and if it sink lower tf "7 external *0 the vaginal tunic into fore or outer^art oTtliV^dy of t^herm^rsac*. ^ThTan^ngs