TRACHEOTOMY. 401 trough it, a director somewhat curved is to be introduced, by means of iieh a button-ended bistoury is passed in, and the thyroid cartilage suffi- >ntly divided upwards in its centre, or the cricoid cartilage, and the upper rt of the air-tube so far cleft as the removal of the foreign body may ;m to require. 1760. After the opening is made, if the edges of the wound be gently awn apart with blunt hooks by the assistants, the foreign body usually pears and is thrown out by coughing; but if this do not happen, its sition must be sought with due care, and it must be removed with aight or curved forceps. The treatment, after removal of the foreign dy, must be precisely similar to that already laid down for longitudinal unds of the windpipe, {par. 467.) 1761. In tracheotomy, where the entrance of the air merely is to be isted, a cut should be made through the skin and muscle on the mesial e of the windpipe, beginning below the cricoid cartilage and continued wn to the edge of the breast-bone. The edges of the wound are to be d asunder with blunt hooks, the blood sopped up with a moist sponge, 'cellular tissue and vascular net upon the third and fourth cartilaginous gs divided, and thus the windpipe laid bare. Bleeding is stanched by d water, or, where possible, by tying the vessels ; the lobes of the thy- d gland, which are a little in the way, are to be turned aside, and two Idiree rings of the windpipe divided vertically. The further treatment s;fhe same as after opening the larynx. |'he same reasons against the use of the tracheotome and the introduction of a tube, |ch have been already given (par. 1758) also apply here. Lawrence (a) advises, if f opening the windpipe, the introduction of the tube cannot be effected, to cut off fan inch through the cartilage, and to remove a small slip from the edges of the ind, so that the opening may continue to gape. 762. If tracheotomy be performed for the removal of a foreign body, air-tube must be exposed and cut into in the way just described, only . size °f the cut must be proportioned to that of the body to be removed. Iqi removal itself must be managed as in laryngotomy. hen the foreign body is lodged in the bronchus its removal should be first attempted eversing the patient’s natural position, and placing him upright, or nearly so, with aead downwards, and then striking his back or shaking the body smartly, by which »ay be hoped the foreign substance will move from its situation, and, dropping ,ugh the windpipe, be ejected at the rima glottidis. Of the two very interesting cases ■ mch this practice was successfully adopted, Brodie’s patient (J>) had first attempted i the sixteenth day after the accident, by “ placing himself in the prone position, with urn resting on a chair, and his head and neck inclined downwards, and having o. _ so, he immediately had a distinct perception of a loose body slipping forward along A V1° ?nt c°nv,ulsive cough ensued. On resuming the erect posture hf Isensatl°n °f a loose body moving in the trachea, but in an opposite diree- Ipletdv’- S tH? Ch,eSt i The experi“ent was reP^ed six days after, move 6 hineoin tbl place.<*’ m tbe prone position, on a platform, made to be movable L£f Tho i? m S° tha\°nre Cnd of 11 beinS elevated, the other was equally ?( w.„„ | 1 hcshoulders and body having been fixed by means of a broad strap the »a*™.,4th. 1 It; and on tbTw ^ • 7C’ 1 , Process was twice repeated with no better ‘ding WAS so alarms occasion the cough was so distressing, and the appearance of dthLx' r ^ boCame CVldent 11 would be ^Prudent to proceed further was therefore dcmrm-S0Te pr,ecau.tlon w?re used t0 render it more safe.” Tracheo- ore determined on two days after, and “ in proposing this,” says Brodie, ■Hi A (fc) Above cited. '< Above cited, p. 219. OL. H, 2 D