KINDS OF POLYPS IN THE NOSTRILS; 730 Petit Radel, Considerations sur les Polypes des Fosses Nasales, et les moye auxquels jusqu’iei on a eu recours pour leur guerison. Paris, 1815. Meissner, above cited, p. 144. Gruner, Dissert, de Polypes in cavo Narium obviis. Lipsice, 1825 ; cum tab. iv. 2319. Polyps occur more frequently in the nostrils than in any oth* cavity. They arise either from the walls of the nostrils or from tl : frontal sinuses; they may even have their root in the antrum Highmoru numi and as they grow, may branch into the nostrils. They are mo. commonly situated on the upper outer wall of the cavity of the nose, an in their further development assume its form. They, therefore, enlare usually at first vertically, and having reached the floor of the nostri i increase more horizontally ; not unfrequently they grow towards th i throat; oftentimes even in both directions, in consequence of which, th i polyp is divided into two processes. There is commonly but a singl polyp ; yet not unfrequently several are produced at the same time, an. even in both nostrils. 2320. The following are the symptoms caused by nasal polypsA first the patient complains of a long-continued snuffling, loses the posve> of smelling, has his nose stopped up, and a great discharge of fluid froir it. These symptoms often vary, according to the state of the weather and are more violent in damp, and less so in dry warm weather. In pro portion as the polyp enlarges, the passage of the air through the nostri becomes more difficult, and at last the nose is completely filled; i projects through the external opening of the nose, or enlarges towards the throat, in which case it may considerably interfere with breathing am swallowing. When the increase of the polyp has become very great, the walls of the nostrils enlarge in every direction, the passage of the feai> through their duct is stopped up, the nasal partition is thrust to the oppo- site side, in consequence of which the healthy nostril is narrowed, and* last all the bones are pressed out of their place. The discharge, wbi > had hitherto been mucous, is sometimes streaked with blood, become* ichorous and stinking; the polyp ulcerates, suppuration attacks the bom*, and the disease, by wearing out the patient’s powers, may cause dettn. The growth of the polyp is frequently accompanied with intense headacne, which spreads over half of the face. Many polyps bleed v ery tasi y violently, and thereby cause great weakening. , 2321. Nasal polyps are either the so-called hard polyps, red ?olt’a sensible, although not causing any great pain ; or they are soft or w polyps, of a leathery nature, of pale colour, accompanied with cop ^ mucous secretion, and varying according to the state of the wea RT ’ , they are of a firmer character, of cartilaginous hardness, very P** . ... bleed on the slightest touch, and easily run into cancerous degenera Upon these differences rests their division into malignant and benign w The malignant polyps are those which from their beS‘”,”nf panied with severe pain in the head or the upper part of the when they appear externally have a pale red or livid colour, are very ,)ed • *’ ’ t movable, but firmly fixed, ana •i to the touch, bleed readily, are not movable, but firmly nxeo, a. ,ucea at many parts to the mucous membrane ; coughing and smmng 1 is painful sensation in the nose or in the fore part of the head . a «« a discharge of stinking ichor . . ,.. ]e or brownis'1 The polyp is benignant, when it has a grayish-white, paie, th, colour, is of a soft nature, is accompanied with little pain in its isli