104 KINDS OF PROLAPSE beyoud the os externum, the disease is called procidentia ; when it remains at the outlet, prolapsus ; when it scarcely subsides below the brim, it then constitutes what is denomi- natedrelaxation.”' (p. 33.) It will be readily perceived that Blundell s .a our Author’s Complete Prolapse, and that his prolapsus and relaxation are included under Incomplete Prolapse.] , /T1 , rr. . . 1269. In Incomplete Prolapse of the Womb, (Prolapsus Uteri irnorrA pletus,) that organ descends more or less into; the vagina, and forms a pear-shaped swelling, which protruding only whilst the patient stands, can, on examination, be swept round by the finger, and at its lower pait a transverse cleft, the mouth of the womb, is felt (1). Or the womb, with its neck, descends between the external generative organs, in which case the vaqina is at the same time inverted, and descends with it (-)• The symptoms presented by incomplete prolapse are, dull but constant pain in the rump, loins, and flanks, a weight and pressure in the vagina, freciuent need of going to stool, often violent urgency, and difficult} in dis- charging the urine (3). All these symptoms increase if the patient standing loimf have exerted herself; and diminish or disappear entirely if she continue for a long time in the horizontal posture. _ If the neck of the womb have descended between the external generative part.-, the mm e ments of the body are hindered, and all great exertion rendered impossibM The irritation which under these circumstances affects the womb, and the other organs of the pelvic cavity, may be participated ui[by the bowels and the functions of the alimentary canal are often disturbed (4). A time of menstruation all these inconveniences increase; it becomes irre- gular; considerable flooding frequently occurs, and is accompanied with * XWteSsof»».* .perl-J- .he most obscure cud but a little way, an inch or condition he observes, often lead the woman, uterus." The symptoms attendig eo > attendant have any doubt of the es” r“lhere is a ,e- ^ to be known, in wmcn tne w t i.e observes, “ are worse at night, them, and called prolapsus uteri. 3 P patient having been about all day f because the womb comes down in the 1. §n the Mo, I should this observation may inj eec ‘ jj? ses ^ich are better characterized than pro- fy ” Cite symptoms? If examinations be thought necessary, they “are better lapsus utsvi y ^ P , ■. rnnminp‘ for iu the morning the womb is almost al^sys made in the evening than in the cons^deraXdescended, so that the displace- in its place, whereas, m the evening,. * “. ”“Cldded, first, the laxity of the ment is easily ini^uiper haTf, is much more capacious, so that, perhaps you might vagina, which, in its upp the lower part of it may be tenser; secondly** put a pullett s egg into it there, though tne lower ]» .f * introduce a catheter or from the pressure preventing the co,11l>k UcelAiackwards and downwards to a dragging it down and bending the urethn'obsenms The more vehement greater or less extent. Upon this‘ P° i ^ bladder, the more perfect docs the