655 CAUSE OF BRONCHOCELE. (c) Above cited. weights upon the head, screaming, and the like, frequently produce it, nd sometimes very quickly. Walther supposes, that in aneurysmatic ronchocele the arterial system is always in a somewhat diseased condition, nd has a greater or less degree of aneurysmal diathesis. Of late the opinion advanced by Bordeu, of a closure of the tracheo-thyroideal pas- ige as the cause of bronchocele, has been revived. [(1) That the cause of bronchocele depends on the mineral substances contained in the aters of the districts where it is common, appears to be proved beyond all doubt by [‘Clellan’s observations (a), and he seems to think probably also on the state of the mosphere. He refers to the observations of Saunders (6) on the frequency of goitre i Sumatra, in proof that snow water is not the cause of this disease, and he shows that really depends upon the changed condition of the water which has circulated through le caverns of the Alpine or compact limestone, and although not percolating the rock , self, has acted upon the extraneous fossils and metallic substances with which such >cks abound, and become impregnated with them. He observes, that “ Alpine lime- one does not occur to any great extent in the mountains of Ireland, nor in those of 'otland and Wales; and in these countries goitre is unknown. In England the —ease is known by the name of Derbyshire Neck, and is principally confined to Der- r/shire, where the particular rock in question forms the characteristic features of the maty. In the Alps of Switzerland and Tyrol, where goitre and cretinism both prevail, . e have the authority of geologists that Alpine limestone and nagelfliigli (usually com- >sed of fragments of limestone more or less rounded, and of various magnitudes, lamented together by a basis of calc-sinter, Jameson) compose the greatest portion of ne mountains. Now this nageljlugli is the same rock, or nearly so, as that on which le villages of Goseragong, Batuda, and Deota, are erected, villages whose inhabitants le affected with goitre to the extent of half their population.” (p. 318.) In regard the condition of the atmosphere as exciting this disease, he says :—“ As this vola- e poison (carbonic acid gas) exists in limestone to the extent of 44 parts in 100 the solid rock, it is possible to conceive, that a sufficient quantity of it, to cause a ire or less vitiated condition of the air may be extricated from limestone by atmo- heric heat, assisted by such other causes as promote the decomposition of the rock. A reference to the mineral topography of all the villages in Kernaon, whicli have examined, but one, seems to favour rather than negative these views. * * * there be difficulties in the way of conceiving the possibility of the emission of carbonic '. £as from limestone, its absorption by lime water may be suggested as a means by mch it may be attracted by the moisture on the surface and at the base of calcareous lountains. (p. 321.) 1(2) M‘Clellan observes on this point“ From goitre as it appears in Kernaon, in its pre distinct form, as well as in conjunction with cretinism, there are many reasons for iiieving that both complaints are intimately connected with each other ; if not identi- ” (7^ are mere modifications of different degrees of intensity of the same tW CC°rding 1° M‘Clellan> “the disease begins at any period of life after the a<m uld nCJer aS far aS he bas seen- arrives ^ full size sooner than six ats trom the time of its commencement, but is generally much slower, its progressive ^dr,hori * * * v^becoT^ per/ectly ******** RhSin ft Tv USUu S1ZC,of a pull'grown goitre is about one foot ten 'i:RT w T e; including the neck; and about two feet from one angle of the I t. J! /i the opposite side, measuring under the tumour.” (p. 317.) b t it the « : fays as to the age at which bronchocele is most usual:—“ We mav infer 1 T «')• from the disease and t,£,! te Bring the fire ! subj.ect. *0 it; as out of one hundred and eleven, only eleven appear !) ■ fourth tfn ten, sixty-three during the second, and twenty-four in the following • t-rsixtv ' y,ears Present four cases, the succeeding, four; and from the age of fiftv Bass mrrXLr w-:(p- 57-> ,4 c°™»»'»« A 4 with anvS;CaSeS,wli,ch have ?ome ^fore him in females, he has never i propoS of CaSe in ?hT°?„n tcommf?c“# pubfty’’ Inolis baa also compared P rn wiqch ft annearVtlill - country, winch have been collected by several writers, and five and I hamper’cent. rmS.l11 CaSGS’ th°Se °bserved ln men varied between r<i>l a) Above cited. n.\ i . ,, Journey to Boutan; in Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxix. p. 89. 1789.