954 EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER; turned down, and the first phalanx dislocated, after the flap has beepfl turned back. To prevent the protrusion of the head of the metatarsal bone in exarticulation of the « great and little toes, Dupuytren saws off the head with a fine saw. 2798. In exarticulation of the second from the first phalanx, that which m is to be removed must be bent backwards, a transverse cut made directly* into the joint, and all the soft parts divided to its hind surface. They//<a-« lanx is now dislocated, the knife carried round the joint, and the flap i; made from the soft parts below sufficient to cover the wound. It is, how- ever better when only one phalanx is to be removed, to exarticulate the-: whole toe, because the remaining stump is inconvenient. 2799. If all the toes have to he exarticulated at once, a semilunar cub: must be made on the dorsal surface from the great to the little toe, or the contrary, through the general coverings, the joints opened and the knife- carried forwards and downwards opposite to and through the crease of skin: which bounds the sole of the foot in front. 2800. In exarticulation of the toes from their connexion with the metan tarsal bones, the position of the joint having been, according to Scoutet- i ten, ascertained by moving the toes, the point of the bistoury is to be< placed a line behind the joint, and carried to the base of the toe along the crease in the skin there existing. The bistoury is now again entered from the other side into the end of the first cut, and carried upwards around the toe to the beginning of that cut. It is then passed through the whole! wound to cut through whatever remains attached, and the. tendons ol the extensor muscles ; and an assistant lifts up the phalanx, whilst the cellular.! tissue surrounding the joint, and the sheath of the tendons of the flexor’j muscles are divided ; the phalanx is then grasped with the fingers of the left hand, and operation completed by division of the lateral ligaments. VI.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE ARM AT THE SHOULDER. (Exarticulatio Humeri, Lat.; Abl'dsung des Oberarmes aus dem Schultergclenke, Germ.; Disarticulation du Bras, Fr.) La Faye ; in Me'moires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 239. Le Laumier et Poyet, Thes. de Methodis amputandi Braehium in articulo. Paris, - 1759. Dahi., De Amputatione Humeri in articulo. Gotting®, 1 <90. Plattner, Ernst, Zusatze zu seines Vaters Einleituug in die Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 432-:' Leipzig, 1776. Haselberc, Comment, in qua novum humerum exarticulo exstirpandi methodnm, novumque ad ligaturam polyporum instrumentum proponit. Gryphiswald, 1788. Seeburc, Dissert. Exstirpatio Ossis Humeri exemplo felici probata. Viteb., 1<95- Kloss, Dissert. De Amputatione Humeri ex Articulo. Gott., 1809. Sohiferli; in Hufeland’s Journal, vol. xx. part iii. p. 161. Walther, above cited, p. 102. Fraser, William, Essay on the Shoulder-Joint Operation, principally deduced from anatomical observation. Loudon, 1813. Lisfranc de St. Martin ct Chamfesme, Nouveau Precede ope'ratoire pour 1’Ampu- tation du Bras dans son articulation scapulo-liuinerale. Paris, 1815. Emert; in Bulletin de la Socicte d’Emulation. 1815, May. De Claubiiy, Gualtier; in Journal de Medecine par Leroux, &c., vol. ***"• 1815.