EXARTICULATION OF THE METACARPAL 964 stances, to amputate through the continuity of the metacarpal bones of thew middle and ring fingers. _ H 2816. In exarticulating the metacarpal hone of the thumb, if the soft '■ parts permit the formation of a side flap, it must be thus performed. An™ assistant, who holds the fore-arm, compresses the radial and ulnar arteries.-<| The operator holding the thumb with one hand abducts it strongly, so as to ji render the fold of skin between it and the forefinger tense. He now car- j ries a straight bistoury in this fold to the connexion of the first phalanx i of the thumb with its metacarpal bone, and along the side of the meta-- carpal bone to the joint. The thumb is now violently abducted to stretchu the ligaments, the whole knife carried into the joint, the metacarpal bone dislocated, the knife carried up on the other side of the bone, jind along it,, to its junction with the first phalanx, where, by cutting obliquely out, the- flap is formed, which corresponds precisely to the first cut. After tyingg the vessels the flap is properly applied and fastened with strips of stickingg plaster, and a bandage. Where the formation of a side flap is not possible, and only an upper or under flap can be formed, the same mode must be employed as describedo in exarticulation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. 2817. In precisely the same way may the metacarpal bones of the ring.- and lit tie fingers be separated from their connexion with the carpus, only) that these exarticulations are more difficult than that of the thumb. 2818. Langenbeck’s method of shelling out the bone from the soft parts by carrying forwards a A shaped cut from the junction of the meta-.- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, and then cutting through j the joint, is more troublesome and tedious than that described. Scoutetten (a) has also applied his method to the metacarpal bone* of the forefinger, of the ring and of the little finger, according to the- i c™. ova-t-H mil a firm of the metatarsal bones. (a) Above cited, pi. iii. iv. v.