SEROUS AND PURULENT COLLECTIONS IN 472 to Raynaud, always exist, and all the diseases which prevent the entrant ; of the air into the lungs do not admit its occurrence. Percussion ai i auscultation usually give the most decided signs, though even they in mar instances are uncertain. Thus a duller sound is observed in pneumonia n but it does not arise in this case so suddenly, or, so to speak, at once, asi: , effusion; on the contrary, it is gradually developed; at first weak an J scarcely perceptible, it gradually becomes stronger in proportion as tl inflammation more and more prevents the entrance of the air into the lun; ' but in the highest degree of hepatization of the lung, the dull sound is S distinct and complete as in effusion. The dull sound is generally circun.; ■: scribed, rarely corresponding to the whole extent of the lung, as on tl . u contrary it is not seldom that effusion occupies the whole of one cavity i; i the chest. In effusion the dull sound suddenly ceases above the levi v: of the effusion, and gives place to a hollow sound : this is not the case i > pneumonia, some cases of pneumonia lobularis perhaps excepted. Hepqfl tization alone produces so dull a sound as can be mistaken for extrcm hi: sation ; but about a hepatized part of the lung there are always others ol which are inflamed in a lesser degree, and which form a gradual transitio n from the diseased to the sound part. Percussion, therefore, carefully usee ;» may give a dull sound, which gradually diminishes till that spot whicjM corresponds to the healthy part of the lung be reached, where it is entireMcl lost. A further distinction between extravasation and pneumonia is, tha : in the former the seat of the dull sound varies according to the differen j posture of the patient, whilst in pneumonia it remains the same in ever position. In extravasation the dull sound always first begins at the mos' i depending part of the chest, whilst in pneumonia it is often first perceivei jj at the upper part, as it often is situated at a higher part. Hirtz (a), presuming that the physical phenomena vary according to the relation o ■! the lungs to the outpoured fluid, determines these relations upon three conditions; fast' . when the effusion is small, some ounces up to a pound ; second, if it be moderately great. g from one to three pounds ; and third, when it is considerable, three pounds and upward? If the effusion be moderate, it varies, according as it is recent or of some time standing u In the former case the effusion spreads around the lung, which, as it were, is bathec | in fluid; the pulmonary and costal pleura are separated from each other by a layer o M fluid, the thickness of which is everywhere nearly alike. In from ten to fourteen days the fluid, however, sinks down, and thrusts the lung upwards, if it be not hepatized oi adherent. A recent outpouring may be distinguished by the following signs:—breath-® ing, voice, cough short, broken, faint bleating, and a dull sound to a great extent; in 'f considerable effusion, the latter, but never the former symptom is observed. When > the outpouring has existed for some time, the dull sound is perceived only to a trifling height, as the fluid sinks down ; on the contrary, tegophony is deficient at the lower part, as for its production not merely is the fluid necessary, but that also a portion of the lungs should be surrounded by it. Above the collection a clearer sound is heard, and the respiratory murmur on auscultation. We are, therefore, led to suppose that the fluid has been absorbed, whereas, however, it has only changed its place, and sunk to the bot- tom. It may, therefore, be concluded, if with diminution of the dull sound, and a return of the respiratory murmur at the upper part of the lung, segophony be wanting at the lower part, that the fluid has changed its place, and has not diminished. The phenomenon of the descent of the dull percussion-sounds, without diminution of the fluid, . depends often less on the removal, than especially on the diminution of the size of the ^ lung, in consequence of the pressure upon it (b). («) Archives generates de Med., vol. i. 1837. (6) I.aennec, Traite de l’Auscultation mediate et des Mnladies des Poumons et de Camr, vol. i. p. 72, vol. ii. p. 230. Paris, 1826. Second Edition. —Piorry, Traite do Diagnostic et. de Semciologie, 3 vols. Paris, 1837. 8vo.—Stokes, Will., M.D., A Treatise on the Diagnosis and Treatment of the 8vo.— Schuh, Ueber den Einfluss dor Percussion nn<^ Diseases of the Chest. Dublin. 1837. Auscultation auf Chirurg. Praxis; in Jahrhiichern, vol. xxxvi. p 372.—von Rotteci ’ Ueber einige llmstkrankheiten, mit l»sonderer Kiicksicht auf ihre Diagnose aus physikalisen Zeichen. Freiburg, lSjy.