62 FAT-RUPTURES. 1 9()9 When the testicle only, at a late period, descends through the inguinal canal, or never descended lower than the extein ,?’ ■ downward into the scrotum, turned, and appeared somewhat llk«afe“°^ 0f the Royal College of Surgeons; JSST.1?Ih'S. instance of a ™pm» - the tng.tnal canal in which the testicle also is still remaming.-J. F. S.j ,203. Fat may be collected in project from the aM°mi»l ™>S> otherwise is Accompanied with scrotum, and toim a sw e , f f t anse upon the rfly tUTnXTo the V n« in this enlargement the fat front or hind surtace oi cue j . ,, rrntum and drags the peri- descends through may be formal on ruptures, ZA A A the case, can be r^ed. ^ Collections of fat upon the surface °i^ror ftTOngK(TmS apertures of the line, through the interspaces ° tbe w|ite line, they rarely attain any belly. If these swellings be situated at oi up that 0f an egg. Some fatty considerable size ; us 11 ally tUeir sl^e^f ®ce.rqf1 the peritoneum, are. gradually received into granules, deposited on the outer surtace or of the tendinous aponeurosis, one of the little openings or c b,Jome converted into a swelling with a neck where they by degrees grow and the neck surrounded by the fibres of the root of which is attached to the yjemo/ifi! usually firmer when the aponeurosis, and the bottom spread beneath ^skin.^1 hey^a ^when small? and penetrating through ai small p g. seem t0 be reduced and got rid of, large, aud increasing without restia t. « J to which they are subject not hut often they are immovable JhecoottMg gg 8 Uoneum at that part where unfrequently produces. a surrounded by a fluty swelling, they arise, and thus they present a sac like ext f this danger, however, which, according to Velpeau, may ^“Siaerible quantity of fat is found aroundthe Pelletan states, does not happen w in,r the entrance of intestine or omentum into soft swelling, for the purpose of p e> . frequently surrounded with this elevation of the peritoneum J f^smnedmes also contain cysts. The fatty membranes which present perfect coatees illconveni01iCe, and often remain unob- ruptures usually produce Tieithe p n lengthen deeply into the duplicature of served throughout the who e hfe , hi J le^ produce great inconvenience, hy however, loses all wlien it descends through the inguinal cana ■ swelling was attached e J P scrotum, the peritoneum was drawn J STe51 The ““ rn's Memoir.