529 AMORPHOUS URINARY SEDIMENTS. is usually denominated pink sediments, the colour of which is very aptly expressed by the term pink. Like the other varieties, they consist essentially of the lithate (urate) of ammonia; but they differ from both these, in being almost entirely devoid of the yellow tint derived from the colouring matter of the urine; and consequently, in owing their colour chiefly to the purpurate of ammonia. This class of sediments, there- fore appears to indicate the absence of the large proportion of the colouring principle of the urine, so constantly present in active inflammatory fever, and to denote the secre- tion of a greater quantity of nitric acid, and the consequent formation of more of the purpurate of ammonia. * * * The most perfect specimens of this kind of sediment which I have ever seen, were obtained from the urine of dropsical individuals : they occur also occasionally in the urine of the hectic, and of those obviously labouring under certain chronic visceral affections, especially of the liver.” (p. 121-25.) “Besides these amorphous sediments, consisting chiefly of lithie(uric) acid, I have seen two or three instances in which large quantities of perfectly white lithate »; (urate) of soda were deposited from the urine. In one case, in particular, the quantity ■ was immense, and voided not only mixed with the urine, but in a state of consistency like mortar, especially during the night, so as to produce considerable difficulty in pass- ing the urine. The urine was acid.” (pp. 127, 28.) Phosphatic sediments. “ The phosphates, like the lithates, (urates,)” says Prout “appear in the urine under two distinct forms, viz., in an amorphous state, and in the crystallized form; but here the analogy ceases, for in the case of the lithates, | I (urates,) the amorphous form is of comparatively the least consequence, whereas ; when the phosphates are concerned, the amorphous sediment is by far the most < important, and the crystallized form is usually of a much milder character.” On .! s this account Prout considers “ the crystallized form, in the first place, as a preliminary 0 step to the more formidable disease.” (p. 174.) It will be more convenient, however, | | for our present, purpose, to reverse his arrangement, and first to notice the amor- ■ 1 phosphatic sediments. “ These sediments consist invariably,” says Prout, of a mixture of the phosphate of lime, and of the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. [(Vote.—I am aware that it is the opinion of many eminent cha- racters, that the inner coat of the bladder is the source of the earthy matters de- > posited by the urine on these occasions. I do not deny this altogether; but, on the I contrary, think that the phosphate of lime, at least, is sometimes derived from this ; source the inner coat of the bladder apparently assuming, in such instances, the tbe inner surface of the abscess sometimes found in the prostate gland, Ifwiuch is known to secrete this earthy salt in great abundance. I am doubtful, how- |'*7er’any portion of the triple phosphate is ever derived from this source, but from ■ <tne kidney only, from which same source, in various cases, a large proportion of the i; phosphate of lime is likewise undoubtedly derived.]—The proportions of the two ■ salts vary very mnch in different instances; but, sometimes, the phosphate of lime J! seems to constitute by far the greater proportion, and, in this case, the symptoms are 1 iw"Iun £ nluch more decided and severe; and it is to this form of the disease | e ^Rowing observations are to be understood as chiefly applicable. A de- ?po 1 on of the earthy phosphates from the urine has been long observed to be attended I Vha dl?tn:ssing symptoms, though no one seems to have hitherto generalized them. * cic!J COnS1St 1,1 g*'eat irritability of the system, and derangement of the chylopoietic V1 general; such as flatulency and nausea, obstinate costiveness, or peculiarly £ d}arrh(B“’ or both, frequently alternating; and the stools are extremely * Hipc, * ’ keino either nearly black, or clay-coloured, or sometimes like yeast. lorwlw accompanied by more or less of a sensation of pain, uneasiness, » enance tss’ ln tbe back and loins. There is a sallow, haggard expression of coun- I K the dlsease Proceeds, symptoms somewhat analogous to those of S >f th(. i„„ce^In t0i aPPear’ 7sucb as great languor and depression of spirits, coldness V- li sense » complete anaphrodisia, and other symptoms of extreme debility : and the 1 WME Specd,ly che?b('d’ f emf capable of ending fatally. The urfne in this H luantitv I® ln.var'ab|y Pale-coloured, and, upon the whole, voided in greater BrSe\tdZtUraL i Sometimes (generally, I think, by day) it is voided in very I or examnlp d Af \RIld’ th'S- C-aSP’ ■’? °f Very low sPecific gravity; 1-001 or 1-002, ■example. At other times, it is en uu.a i,.— .. BD- or examnip i, .7 ’.. specinc gravity; ruoi or T002, Kiroportionallv hio-be ( r.1tl,rr^S.’ 11 '8 voided in less quantity, and its specific gravity is former case it U 'S /eldom high, that is, surpassing 1-025. In the Bnent- in the lott & . erally perfectly pellucid, and colourless, and deposits no sedi- Hora areater nr lolc ls ■S<|>nie*imes opaque when passed, and always, after standing Yo i. t [ time, deposits a most copious precipitate of the mixed phosphates, M