ANEURYSM. 197 [The writings of the ancient physicians show their acquaintance with aneurysm, [which they described as of two kinds; one, the consequence of a wound in bleeding jfrom the vein in the arm or spurious aneurysm, which would seem to have been of not ■infrequent occurrence, as they are best informed about it; and the other by dilata- tion of the artery without injury, or true aneurysm. I have selected passages from ■Galen, jEtius, and Paul of lEgina, which are the foundation of the opinions long and subsequently held by writers on this subject. ^ Galen («) says“ When an artery is expanded, the disease is called an aneurysm, his happens when, the vessel being wounded, the adjoining skin cicatrizes, but the round still remains in the artery, which neither unites nor heals, nor is filled up with lesh. Such diseases are known by the pulsation of the arteries, but when pressed, all he swelling disappears, the substance producing it returning into the artery, and rhich I have elsewhere shown consists of thin and yellow blood mixed with thin and I Mcl> sPirit- Forthwith is this blood hotter than that in the veins, and when the aneu- f ysm is wounded, it darts forth and cau with difficulty be stopped. But in oedema the ■j, ubstance yields to the pressure of the finger, and the ,limb pits, but there is no pulsa- i ion in this disease, and the colour is whiter, and the oedema is much more spread and •l renter than in aneurysm, except when a thrombus having arisen from it, produces i;!! anpne. In another place (6) Galen says Aneurysm is the dilatation of a vein, :l, r the dispersion of the spirituous matter by its bursting beneath the flesh.” i /Etius (c) describes the signs of aneurysm as “a tumour of small or large size of ne colour, free from pain, soft to the touch, and having a spongy looseness. It yields ,) to prepre of the fingers as to seem almost to disappear, but on the removal of the : ugers it very quickly returns, which is especially observed in aneurysm and the rest “• iat occur without a wound. But when there has been a previous wound of the artery I £ Lr;n"’thTf 1S/‘’S0 accomPanyi_ng dilatation of the vessels, the tumour is ■1 relk outthe ffimouJ” 6mg m°r6 C°P1°US ^ the Spirits’ C°llects in clots and I PAULj Of^Epa (d) proceeds farther, and distinguishes spontaneous aneurysm from I “ .FBut I After ^^oted Galen’s definition and symptoms °h“ ys.— But I distinguish the one from the other thus : those which arise froni a rlilat«l ,!/ tery are more bulky and deeply situated, and on examination with the finders a sort 1 noise is heard; but no noise is heard in those caused by rupture, whkfare more 1 Und and arise superficially. He advises different treatment L e “C c sease, as will be presently mentioned. ms ot I ^ Hunter defines aneurysm as “the dilatation of the coats of an artery arisW I obablj either from disease or accident, producing weakness, which become!’ the re® rce is gr 1401. a small narf of tI1TSm 6 the are either expanded only e eCnsion nfflt iC0U1'Se’ (Aneury™« ™r«m circumscriptum,) or rum SuZmT ? &radualIy lost (Aneurysma conseaumt (A F aneurysm is also divided into the circumscribed ' e dlM^oxiriZlT?7Urmm ClrCUmscriPtum consecutivum,) and the former 2 1 diffusum seu primitivum.) Stery, and /t°\1§ effused under the cellular tissue of the feryare divided and tl *aC ; ’f16 latter’ all the coats of the hole limb (par 278 ) " P°Ured forth int° the intersPaccs of the ferent format he tttn ^the*1 I11"41? °f ^ue aneui7sm according to the - in which the artery exh^ S onf part oft iTiS | 16) o»„, i P' Ku,,n 8 Edition. 8vo. • Ktmw’g Par‘ ccclxxviii- vo1- xix. p. • ^ T,tP«/3//3A(>», Discourse xv. chap. 10. I have been obliged to use the Latin Translation bv Easileo!, mdxlii. fol., not being ^leto put hand on a Greek copy.—J. jf. s “ l”ra’ book vi. chap, xxxvii. p. Iso. 13asiieao,mdxxxviii. fol. F