RESECTION OF THE BLADE-BONE AND COLLAR-BONE. 1005 being passed under it to secure the subclavian artery. The subsequent steps of the operation consisted in “ plain, coarse, and sometimes rapid dissection.” Having tied the subclavian artery, Mussey divided the accompanying vein, when a bubble of air passed into the latter, which caused the patient instantly to swoon, and he was roused with much difficulty from this state of collapse. “ The immense wound, with flaps of seven or eight inches in extent, united by adhesion, and became con- solidated and .sound, literally without the formation of a teaspoonful of pus. In less than three weeks the patient was dismissed, and he rode home in a stage-coach between thirty and forty miles, and remained sound and well in November.” In 1841, Rigaud (a) of Strasburg, amputated a man’s arm at the shoulder-joint for disease of the humerus. The man recovered, and remained well for eight months ’ A tumour was then found growing from the scupula, and Rigaud removed the whole of this bone, together with the outer extremity of the clavicle, in 1842. In two months the parts were healed, and the man remained well in July, 1844. M'Clellan, of Philadelphia, removed the scapula and clavicle from a boy The patient recovered after the operation, but died from a return of the malignant disease in another part. Dr. Blackman, of New York, informs me, that Gilbert, of Philadelphia, has recently removed the scapula and clavicle, but I have not been able to ascertain the particulars of the operation. 1 I am specially obliged to my friend Fergusson for the following short account of the removal of the whole scapula and part of the clavicle, which he has this day (February 6 1847) performed on a man aged thirty-three, who had his right arm amputated about * v^ei7-ears a£° *or car^es tk0 shoulder-joint. The humerus was extensively diseased which is presumed to have been the reason for amputating; and the glenoid cavity being also affected, was removed at the same time, but either not sufficiently, or else there had been subsequent extension of the disease. Ten or twelve fistulous openings communi- cated from the surface with the carious bone, which seemed to be so extensively diseased that Fergusson considered it best to remove the whole bone. An incision was made beginning an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle, along that bone to the acromion; room was thus made to apply a saw to the middle of the bone. An incision was next made in the course of the spine of the scapula, nearly to the base The first cut was then extended down into the axilla. The posterior flaps were now partially dis- sected ofl the thickened mass covering the scapula; the anterior next raised then the m.pectoralis minor, next the m. trapezius were cut through, and the bone, being forcibly pu led outwards, was soon severed by the division of the other muscles and tissues The anterior attachment of the trapezius had been in part divided when making wav for the saw on the clavicle. The axillary vessel was not obliterated, but spirted^freely when the finger was taken off the sub-clavian on the first rib, where it had been compressed - during the operation not more than four ounces of blood were lost. There was no eWlr’ and no pain, for the patient was under the influence of ether during the whole time going mi aWarC that thC °Peratlon was actually done, though he fancied it was Gaetani Bey (6), in the case of a boy fourteen years old whn Lori „„ , wounded in the shoulder by the discharge of an old piece of artillery, which exploded hilst remeltmg, amputated at the shoulder joint, removed the whole hWiZi 2? ttss nit EE,Mki*,he SSS'ife™^0ir„dt jA”“ (d> reco* »^Milar th.ul of the clavicle a Inch projected from the wound, and tied the t") American Journal of the Medical Sciences 1KTI; p. ol2. I have not been able to consult the original report. (6) Annali Universal! di Medicina, vol. xcviii. (e) Lancet. p.' 28fi.13bii7L°nd0n MctliCiU Gazette> vol. xxxi. (>:) Philosophical Transactions, vol. xl. 1741. 1832-p 114 Medical Gtucttc> vol. v. p, 497. 1830.