311 OF THE ENDS OF BONES. 01570. The treatment of anchylosis must be determined by the follow- 1, circumstances. In most cases where anchylosis takes place, it is a | iirable result, for example, in caries of joints, the so-called white swell- and the like; and it should by no means be sought to prevent it, for ; the attempts made with that object will only increase the inflammation, j the danger of the anchylosis. In such cases, therefore, the joint must kept in the most perfect rest, and in such position, that the anchylosis suing will be most convenient and advantageous. Subsequently, when * inflammatory symptoms have disappeared, three conditions are pos- le : the substance connecting the joint-surfaces is either yielding, and by itinued and gradually increased movements of the joint, may be length- id into ligament-like bands, or these motions may reproduce the aminatory symptoms, or they may be very difficult, and become every y more and more confined. In the first case, the movements are always lompanied with pain, which must be got rid of by emollient and soothing alications, rubbings in, bathing, and the like, and motion not carried to ;h extent as would produce fresh inflammation of the joint. In the :ond case, all motion must be avoided ; and in the third, no effort can be the least useful, because the mass has been already more or less con- rted into bone. f. Rea Barton (a) sawed through the thigh-bone at the trochanter, in a case of an- losis at the hip-joint, brought the limb into proper position, and by motion prevented on. He also employs this practice on other joints. It is only practicable when the ient is in good health, and when the stiffness depends on the soldering together of bones, the soft parts at the same time being unaffected with disease, and all the scles and tendons which contribute to the motions of the joint healthy ; when the se of the disease is entirely removed; when the operation can be performed so e to the original point of motion, or so near to it that the functions of the greater iber of muscles and tendons can be preserved; and when the deformity and incon- ience is so great, that the patient is induced to subject himself to the pain and danger such an operation, von Wattmann has obtained a favourable result by sawing ough the upper-arm bone in anchylosis of the elbow joint. Dieffenbach (b) ieves that the separation of the united joint by means of the chisel and saw, would • be more hurtful than the above-mentioned sawing through of the bone, to form an h ificial joint, inasmuch as the anchylosed joint is no longer a joint, and therefore o unding it is not to be so much dreaded. 1571. The slighter degrees of the so-called false anchylosis, depending contraction of the muscles or ligaments, or on contracting scars, may completely removed by rubbing in suppling ointments, by relaxing ths, steam, and the like, with the simultaneous use of apparatus (1), \ rich gradually straighten the joint. In the more severe forms of con- iction little or nothing is effected in this way ; in such cases, violent and dden extension; gradual extension with an apparatus, the tendons 'ving been previously divided; or, sudden and violent extension soon ter cutting through the tendons, have been proposed and practised. The j st mode of treatment (Louvrier’s) is objectionable (2) ; the extension, r aPparatus, after division of the tendons is generally tedious, must be •ry long continued, often produces considerable pain, and frequently eets with invincible obstacles; with it, however, no dangerous symptoms e to he feared. The violent extension after division of the tendons will ■nsiderably shorten the cure (Dieffenbach). This mode of treatment rmat?on If A J^tT?nt of Anchylosis by the (fc) Ueber die Durchfclineidimg der Selinen und >d i « f ArPflclal J°lnU; >n North American Muskeln, p. 249. • am' burg- Journal, vol. iii. p. 279. 1827.