DIFFERENT MODES OF TYING 246 carotid artery. The patient’s head is to be then bent much backwards by an assistant, and the operator carries his finger down along the carotid. Having reached the inner surface of the top of the breast-bone, he finds a blue swelling, under which his finger must be introduced. With the aid of his finger, and the handle of the scalpel, he proceeds down to the plac< where the arteria innominatci divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries. Then continues for half an inch farther down, takes the hook., armed with a thread, in the right hand, passes it close to the finger of tin left hand, down to the arteria innominata, and carrying it round it, drawn the threads, and applies Graefe’s ligature-apparatus. Mott used the instruments employed by Parish, Hartshorne, and Hewson (a' which he recommends as sufficient for tying deep arteries. He carries a blunt-endec needle, having two eyes at the two ends, with a needle-holder, around the artery, care fully avoids the pleura, then introduces a hook into the eye of the needle, which i brought into view, with which, after freeing the needle-holder, he draws the needle out and with it the ligature, which is then to be gradually drawn together and tied with tw. single knots. No effect upon the heart or lungs was noticed. [ (1) Ciielius is mistaken as regards Hodgson on this point, for he neither propose* nor advised this operation. He merely quotes the operation proposed by Burns, and a to his opinion of it he observes :—“ The ligature of the arteria innominata, or of the sut clavian artery, on the tracheal side of the scalenus, must be regarded as peculiarly hazardous. I have thought it proper, however, to treat of these operations, because under particular circumstances, a Surgeon may conceive it his duty to undertake them, (p. 384.)—J. F. S.] 1456. Besides these operations performed on living subjects, Bujalsky. King, Dietrich, and Manec, have proposed other methods for tying the arteria innominata. According to Bujalsky, the cut through the skin should be made o the inner edge of the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, be tween it and the windpipe, as long as the breadth of four fingers, a littl to the inner side of the muscle above, commencing at the middle of th neck, and extending down to the middle of the notch of the breast-bom The fibres of the rn. platysma myoides are now apparent at the upper angl. of the wound, but at the lower, there is a considerable quantity of fa The cut is to be continued deeper, and in the middle of the wound tl sterno-hyoid muscle is exposed, and to be cut through obliquely; b< neath it is the sterno-thyroid muscle, which is also to be divided. TH operator should keep as much as posssible to the inner edge, because tl internal jugular vein runs along the outer edge. The inferior thyroide: vein, which in the wound passes obliquely under the muscles, is to l drawn upwards or downwards. Sufficient depth having now been attains the artery is to be isolated and tied. In King’s (or, rather, O’Connell’s) mode, a cut from fifteen ' eighteen lines long is to be made on the inner edge of the stern o-mastoi muscle of the left side, through the skin, m. platysma myoides and fits* of the neck; the finger is then passed between the sterno-thyroid muscle and under the right of those muscles, the cervical fascia divided, tl finger introduced beneath it, and carried down to the arteria innomina> I lying upon it. I Dietrich has correctly shown the impracticability of King’s operauO’| and proposes the following. The patient’s head should be bent a litt r backwards, and a cut of from two and a half to three inches long, accon j ing as the neck is longer or shorter, and more or less fat, should be mat j («) Edcct. Repos., vol. iii. p. 229.