74 EXTERNAL FEMORAL RUPTURE. In operating on femoral rupture, without opening the sac, Key observes: — “It may he as well to disturb the subjacent cellular membrane as little as possible, as inflam- mation is less likely to follow, and to assume the form of erysipelas. For this reason the inverted X incision, usual in the operation for femoral hernia, may be in most case* reduced to a single incision, either at right angles to Poupabt’s ligament, or in a trans- verse direction across the tumour. In patients who are spare, and in whom the neck of the sac lies at no great depth from the surface, it is unnecessary to disturb the cellular membrane by turning aside the flaps of the integuments. This will diminish the sup- purative inflammation, and in such cases will afford ample room for the operation. I have not made trial of the perpendicular form of incision, but a single transverse one I have found sufficient when the integuments have been loose and the tumour not large. The superficial fascia adheres firmly to the common integuments, and is usually turned aside with them, especially when the latter are pinched up for the purpose of making the first incision. The fascia propria is therefore quickly exposed, and forms the first distinct covering of the tumour, being darker than the more superficial cellular invest- ment. It is'under the outer layer of this fascia that the adipose structure is formed, and which often assumes the appearance of omentum. The director easily makes its way under this fatty matter as far as the neck of the sac, -which lies deeper than the operator at first supposes. The point of the director should be applied rather to the inner than to the outer part of the neck of the sac, as it will be found more easily to pass under the stricture at this part. It should not at first be attempted to be thrust under the stricture, as the firmness of the parts forming the stricture would resist it. But the seat of the stricture • i being felt, the operator should depress the ends of the director upon the sac, which will yield before it, and then, by an onward movement, the director slides under the strio- ture.” (pp. 143, 44.)] 1226. The return of the intestine, the dressing and the treatment after operation are to be conducted in the same way as already described in inguinal rupture. 1227. The external femoral rupture, which consists in the protrusion of the peritoneum and of the fascia iliaca on the outside of the femoral vessels, between them and the front upper angle of the hip-bone, and is gradually developed, forms at the place mentioned a moderately raised swelling, which, becoming narrower below, ascends, however, obliquely inwards, and terminates with a blunt point in the region of the lesser trochanter. The finger cannot in the least be brought under either of its edges. If in its further growth the rupture overcome the anterior iliac fascia, the form and direction of the swelling is changed ; a new one is developed beneath the old swelling, which always extends further between the fascia lata and the muscles of the thigh. The mouth of the rupture is formed by the outer part of Pour art’s ligament and the iliac spine; on its inner side lies the femoral artery, and upon it the circumflex iliac artery. The neck of the sac is the widest part of it lying within the belly; its inner wall lies under the semi-lunar bridge of the posterior iliac fascia, its outer on the m. iliacus internus and psoas magnus. The body of the sac lies behind the anterior iliac fascia, near it outwardly lie the m. rechtik and vastus externus femoris, near it inwardly the femoral vessels and t nerves, partially covered by it, and upon or before it the m. sartorius and part of the fascia lata. The bottom of the sac, its narrowest part, lwj on the trochanter minor. The coverings of this rupture beneath the slan t are, first, the femoral ligament upon the inner greater half, and the sartorius upon the outer lesser half of the hernial sac; second, a layer®* i 1 1 » t I » sir I .* I tough cellular tissue, in which small blood-vessels and nerves run ; third. th* . • -t r . r ji. *i i : :i:_„ r io uorv dew* anterior iliac fascia; fourth, the posterior iliac fascia, which is very cate, and allows, fifth, the hernial sac,which it completelyenvelopes, to show through. Hesselbach considers a weak constitution, and the existence® the m.psoas minor, by which a cup-like hollow is formed, as disposing to tn *