878 OF INFUSION. cough, pale urine, faintness, and severe sweating. Tn tetanus Percy, Laurent and \ Onsenoort have found good results from injecting cxtr. opii and extr. datura stramonii. | In cholera Latte injected a solution of salt, consisting of two to three drams of nitre and two scruples of carbonate of potash to six pints of distilled water, at a temperature l of 112° Fahrenheit, to the amount of six or eight pints at once, and repeated it, so that t| from fifteen to forty-four pints were thrown in. In Germany this was tried by Zim- • [ MERMANN, Casper, Blasius and others, but it produced only a passing effect. In cases ■ of foreign bodies in the throat, Kohler, Balk, Kraus and Graefe have employed with i L advantage an injection of a solution of two to six grains of tartarized antimony, in half !t an ounce to an ounce and a half of distilled water, with the result already mentioned l t {par. 1731); and Meckel has also used it in a case of seeming death. 2655. For injection, a very small vein should not be chosen, the vena • cephalica is best. After the arm has been properly fixed, a fold of skin is to be made over the vein, and cut through lengthways from an i inch and a half to two inches in the course of the vein ; the vein is to be ■ separated from the cellular tissue and two threads carried round it; after : which it is to be lifted a little up and opened lengthways with the lancet, . to' an extent corresponding with the size of the pipe. After having filled the pipe with warm water, it must be passed in towards the heart, the threads tied firmly around it so that the blood shall not escape, and then it is to be held by an assistant. The syringe heated by dipping in warm i water to the temperature of the blood is now filled with the fluid warmed I to the same degree, and its point being directed upwards, some of the fluid is squirted out, so that all air may be got rid of; it is then intro- duced into the pipe, and the fluid slowly and at intervals injected into the vein. If more fluid have to be thrown in, the syringe must be re- moved, the opening of the pipe covered with the finger, and the injection l repeated as before. When the injection has been completed, the threads are to be removed, the pipe carefully withdrawn from the vein, and the wound compressed with the thumb and finger of the left hand. T e wound in the skin is to be brought together with slips of sticking plaster, over which a little compress and a bandage are to be applied, as alter bloodletting. To prevent inflammation cold applications are to be made for some days. The practice of opening the vein after putting on a bandage, as in bloodletting, an injecting after the removal of the bandage is improper, as the injection P “ „ the cellular tissue. According to Blasius, the vein should be laid bare by a po the skin, compressed at the upper part of the wound, opened in ifa*g. with a lancet, and into this aperture the little tube immediately mserted. For'tK jection he employs a tube with a pig’s bladder; Scheel uses a syringe with an elf*^ tube ; others an Indian rubber bottle, Helper’s funnel of transparent liorn Ha a® uses a glass blowpipe with a silver syringe; Graefe opened the yym with a uu^ curved trocar which he thrust into the swollen vein, drew out the stilette, alio ounce of blood to escape from the canula, and into it introduced a closelj-fitting sj 6 with which he injected the fluid. 2656. Transfusion consists in opening a vein, into which blood is con 2656. lranstusion consists in opening a vem, ujw "“p- . veved from the artery or vein of another person, (immediate transju v or by means of a syringe (mediate transfusion, infusory trmisfmim^^ history of this operation is connected with that of infusion. I he history of this operation is connecieu wun umi ui \ by of improving the juices, and of curing cachectic and dyscrasici di * the transfusion of the blood of man or brutes, which w^ ve p 1 the latter half of the seventeenth century, has n°t b““ confirm^ perience. The operation was nearly forgotten, and only « ' ^ lias been brought into use successfully m cases of iflng, where after childbirth, and also in continued and irremediable vomiting,