(a) Dresdner Zcitschrift fur Natur und Hcilkunde, vol. iv. paI't ih- 89B TREATMENT OF be left off in the third week, when, after removing the first dressing, I have found the wound completely healed. t , I In taking off the dressings, all its clinging portions should be wefcl softened with lukewarm water, and in doing this, as well as in re-applyujl the dressing, dragging the ligature-threads should be carefully avoided,] I Every day, or every other day, or still less frequently, according to th quantity of discharge, should the dressing in this way be replaced. If an parts remain ununited, the clotted blood or the pus must be emptied b Untie pressure. On the seventh or eighth day, it may be attempted U remove the ligatures on the small vessels with a gentle pull, and those o the larger ones towards the twelfth and sixteenth. They, however, oftei remain for a longer time, being held fast by the granulations ; the ligatu must then be twisted between the fingers, and pulled at the same I have never seen inconvenience from the ligatures being long le am The same plan is to be continued till the scarring of the wound be com pleted ; and for some weeks after, the stump must be covered up, and thl scar protected from the dragging of the muscles with a bandage artificial leg can only be fitted when the scar has become quite touah an. the eda-e of the bone is rounded. . , ~ The io-eneral treatment must depend on the different periots o 1 H and according to the condition of the general health. Proper regntatto, of the diet, if no particular symptoms occur, renders the use of medtcin in most cases superfluous. . . . more than make a gentle pull upon it, for Ik easily, it is better t greater energy. If the ligature .thereplanter on the sid fasten its end to a tlnn piece of whalebone, hxe the gentle and constar and bent over the face of the s ump, so as to foi m a spring S three d pull which this makes, generally brings the ligatuie away in J P g j ' 2701. Should after-bleeding occur, it must be managed as. .ta-J directed in the treatment of wounds in general (pai. 31—) • ti) considerable, but from small vessels le^irf«<!»^ff^ tourniquet must be screwed tight, and co r ,f it'le from thebraiiche for some time. But if the bleeding bei greater,^ f ‘ =°'' 0 « " h I of an artery, or from the trunk itself, then aftei the tourmq 0 properly tightened, the dressing must be removed the wound el ^ 1 the clotted blood, and the bleeding vessel tied. 1^ • Jlnfnl.r 11 noil til the clotted blood, ancl the oieeomg ] upon th sponge dipped in ice-cold water must be applied urn ledw-- powden, wound, and pressure also made upon it. 1 lugs strew ei w * '.^eful (1). 11 and bound on with a compressive bandage may also be here u^fU jf(h the after-bleeding come on with smart le\er, wit hv a free blood arteries, and great heat in the stump, it may often be staj ed bj leUin(T, and by continued cold applications to the stump. of th If the bleeding happen later, and cannot be stanched j fth abovelmentioeed means, which is usually wound are for the most part united, or the walls of the ar ure, (h of theirTnflammatory condition, baffle the operation of any ligature,