940 EXARTICULATION OF THE THIGH, [Liston’s (a) operation is the same as Beclard’s, and he observes:—“ This mode I < getting at the head and neck of the bone is much preferable to that usually followed, an |' is in every respect safer, as he has more than once ascertained from actual practice • the living body. The fore part of the articulation is fully exposed immediately on 11 anterior dap being formed. The capsular ligament is cut by drawing the knife acre >r. determinedly, as if it were the intention of the operator to cut off the head of the bora The round ligament and the posterior portion of the capsule are cut, and the blade the instrument having been passed behind the neck and trochanters, the posterior fl: is quickly formed so as to allow the limb to drop. The vessels on the posterior aspe^ are tied fast; then the femoral and those in the anterior flap, which had been cor manded by the assistant, are uncovered one by one, and secured.” (p. 387.)] 2767. Begin and Sanson (b) first make a semicircular cut, with i concavity upwards, through the skin and cellular tissue, beginning fro> the point of the great trochanter, carried over the front of the thigh att| ending at the tuberosity. The skin is drawn back and the femoral artei tied. The front flap is then made, either from without inwards, or froi within outwards, by a thrust, and afterwards the hind flap, the one ang: of which must correspond with the great trochanter and the other wit the tuberosity. The operation is finished by the exarticulation of th head. * * * The Oval Cut. 2768. According to Sanson, the operator, standing on the outside ( the limb, makes a cut obliquely from below upwards and from within oui wards, beginning it four fingers’ breadth below the perinceum, carrying : over the front of the joint, and ending it at the point of the great tre chanter. This cut divides the skin and superficial muscles, and the femora artery is now tied. A second cut beginning from the inner angle of th first, is carried over the hind part of the limb and united with the forme at the point of the trochanter; it divides the skin and the mass of mus cles as deep as possible. The knife is now passed into the first cut, it edge directed towards the hip-socket, the thigh dropped, by which the heat is protruded, and then the capsular and round ligaments are divided. Tin knife is now carried round the head from within outwards, then back wards and afterwards inwards, care being taken that it do not for at instant leave the socket. This operation is very quick. 2769. Guthrie (e) gives the following mode of performing tin operation. An assistant standing on the opposite side, and leaning over should compress the artery against the brim of the pelvis, with a nm hard compress of linen, such as is generally used before the tourniquet he should also be able to do it with his thumb, behind the compress, if »' be found insufficient. The Surgeon standing on the inside, with a strong pointed amputating knife of a middle size, makes his first incision tliroug the skin membrane, and fascia, so as to mark out the flaps on cellu ar each side, commencing about four fingers’ breadth, and in a direct below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium in a well-si®* man • and continuing it round in a slanting direction at an almost equa distance from the tuberosity of the ischium, nearly opposite to the piac where the incision commenced. Bringing the knife to the outside ot thmli, he connects the point of the incision where he left off «>'» place of commencement, by a gently-curved line, by which means outer incision is not in extent more than one-tlurd of the size of tn (o) Practical Surgery. 68—• (1/) Sabatif.r, Medecine Oporatoire, par Sanson ct Beoin, vol. it. P- (c) Above cited, pp. 363. 364.