398 LARYNGOTOMY. 1755. As foreign bodies in the oesophagus produce the same symptonu h as those in the windpipe, it is always necessary, by examination of the throat, by the introduction of a sound, with a piece of sponge upon its ,* end, to be sure of the oesophagus (1). Foreign bodies are only in very rare instances, thrown out by violent 6 coughing : on this account a severe emetic or artificially excited sneezing increase the danger (2). The only remedy for the certain removal of the foreign body is opening f the windpipe, (Broncliotomia, Tracheotomia,) or opening the larynx (Laryngtomia.) This operation must be undertaken as quickly as pos- ■ sible, because if put off, such symptoms as violent inflammation of the ‘ lungs and windpipe, emphysema of the lungs and the like arise, which even after the removal of the body may cause death. The operation is in all cases required, where suffocation presses, or an aspliictic condition has set in ; further, if dangerous symptoms occur from time to time, and the ■ 1. foreign body be observed rolling up and down in the windpipe ; or if fixed t pain °point out its exact seat. But if the patient be free from all these t$ symptoms, and the seat of the foreign body cannot be discovered, we must . i wait till there are symptoms of change in its situation, and a possibility ol t its removal. [(1) In reference to this subject Stokes (a) mentions one instance in which a piece ol ; money lodging in the oesophagus produced croupy breathing and laryngeal symptoms. ,!>j And in his Lectures he used to speak of another case in which such symptoms were pro- \, duced by a foreign body (a plum-stone) in the oesophagus, that his first impulse was to » - perform tracheotomy with his penknife. An oesophageal bougie was, however, intro- p duced, and the substance having been pushed into the stomach, the symptoms ceased,.,-r and a day or two after the plum-stone, with which the child had been known to he play-. f i- ing previous to the accident, was voided by stool (6). (2) Occasionally it may happen that although violent fits of coughing having failed ■- to expel the foreign body from the windpipe, yet by some accidental change in the : ? patient’s position, the foreign body is removed from its lodging place, and is then thrown up with little effort. Such seems to me the explanation of Cock s case (e) ot | a sixpence slipping down the throat, and at first lodging in the tow; “ violent. J coughing, wih the most distressing sense of suffocation, immediately took place, and | during the paroxysm he threw up a quantity of blood. On his admission he was still struggling for breath, coughing incessantly, and suffering great pain and irritation which he referred to the larynx, where the com appeared to have lodged. bhortivug after “ the sixpence had left the larynx, and descended into the trachea; its change oi position being immediately followed by an abatement of the previous urgent symptoms.! t| He still coughed almost incessantly, stated that he could feel the sixpence movingnp ... and down the windpipe, and complained of pain and soreness in the chestinthesw on m the right bronchus, and also just below the larynx." Towards the end of the sunc^ evening the symptoms subsided, and he went to sleep. On the following day he much the same state, and “as long as he remained calm and quiet, he nothing but a feeling of general soreness along the larynx and windpipe. V he_ sw I evening the sixpence was thrown out without surgical aid. “ I was asleep, saia y patient, “and dreamed I was drinking a pot of porter, and the attempt to swaim^ ! made me cough. I awoke, and found the sixpence in my mouth. O^KOhs.'r ^- _ . , ° .i n i r.oi nioroct thnt. the iorng11 . I awoiiti, UI1U 1UUUU LHC Ill 111J mvuvu. £ “It is perhaps worthy of remark, and not destitute of practical interest, thatu>ew'6 bodv, which had retained its position during the most violent expiratory efforts, si ^ - - * ,1 n TxoT’iori wiion flip mu snips nf flip nlnttis were nrobaoly in a s . II body, which nau reidincu. u&pwsiuwu t • • crate ot length be ejected, at a period when the muscles of the glottis were probably m ® ^ quietude, and being taken unawares, allowed its expulsion, under a gentle act oi e ing.” (pp- 554, 55.)] _ . . 1756. Opening the larynx or windpipe is also required to assi. entrance of the air into the lungs, when it is obstructed under any o circumstances, and suffocation is dreaded; in great swelling (&_) Wells ; in Diet, of Pract. Surgery, vol. i. p. 516. (a") Above cited, p. 265. . ... «f,ries, 1845- W ■ (c) Medical Gazette, vol. i. New Senes,