778 REMOVAL OF THE TONGUE BY TYING. and shape of the cut being decided by the seat and shape of the diseased When the ulcer or the scirrhus is not large, specially if it be on the tij of the tongue, it may be removed by two cuts connected at an angle, sc that the wound may be brought together with suture ; although IIey- felder holds it better not to effect the union this way, but to leave it tc nature. If the cancer be on one side of the tongue, that organ must beJ divided by a cut lengthways, and a second cut made transversely or obli- quely behind the degenerated part. If the disease extend far back, it is ; necessary first to divide the cut on the corresponding side to obtain more room. If the tongue be degenerated throughout its whole thickness and far back, the cheek must also be first divided, and when the tongue lias been properly protruded and fixed, it must be cut off with two strokes;: with Cooper’s scissors from the side towards the middle. The bleeding:; which always accompanies this operation must be stopped as far as pos- sible by ligature, by styptics, by pieces of ice held in the mouth, by solution of alum, or by the actual cautery. The edges of the wound are then to be carefully examined, and every hard knot or diseased part seized with the hook or forceps, and removed with the scissors. The after-treatment must, according to the degree of the ensuing inflam- mation, be more or less antiphlogistic ; the patient must not talk, and only eat mild nourishing broth. When suppuration takes place, bland, mouth-washes must be used. If the suppurating part assume a bad ap- pearance, it must be touched with caustic, or with the actual cautery, and at the same time a corresponding general treatment employed. After the cure, the speech is more or less affected, according as more or less of the tongue has been removed ; it, however, gradually improves if the lost part have not been very great. Fungous growths of the tongue must be cut off at their base, either immediately or after the application of a ligature around the tongue, and the bleeding surface touched with the actual cautery (a). Tying the lingual arteries (par. 1444) which has been proposed for the special object of preventing bleeding in cutting off the tongue, is partly on account of its great danger and difficulty in stout persons, improper, but specially so, because experience has shown that even in deep removal of the tongue the bleeding may be stanched by ligature an other remedies. Jaeger, for these reasons, thinks it required only in cases of consi- derable varicose or aneurysmatic affections of the tongue, or in its total removal, w c the remainder of the tongue cannot be laid hold of. 2430. The removal of the tongue by tying, which is done either with a single ligature, or with a double thread, passed through with a needle, an tied on botli sides, is indeed a security against bleeding, but the painfu ness of this method, the inconvenience caused by the swelling of the tongue, by its sloughing and the like, generally leads to the preference of rem®'^e by cutting; cases, however, may occur, where a mixed treatment may requisite. If, for instance, the tongue be diseased far back on one si ^ the diseased may be separated from the healthy part by a cut exten ing sufficiently far back, the diseased mass drawn forwards with the forceps, ai a ligature applied with the loop-drawer, at the root of the degeneration IF Otherwise, experience shows, that in such cases, the removal by cu B has favourable results (c). e qu’il prond a la formation de la paro c; 1 Medicate, 1832. vol. ii. p. 384. (b) Lisfranc, above cited. ivbrr P*r* (r) Jafokr, above cUed.—Kkicbe, tielle iind totalc Extirpation dcr /.tinge, Magazin, vol. xlvi. part ii.. (a) von Wat.thkh ; in his Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenlieilkunde, vol. v. p. 210.—Jaf.okr, above cited.—Dfi.pecn, Stir un Cas de Cancer de la Lanj organe, i v! - ■ cited.—UF.I.PECH, nur un v.as uc ingue, uui a entralne la perte totale de cet ,e, et qui a fourni l'occasion d’etudier la part