662 TREATMENT OF BRONCHOCELE BY SETON; in some instances it must be combined with the internal use of iodine, the bronchocele become painful and harder, this ointment must be witl held for a time, and leeches and warm applications made use of. Cautio must also be recommended in the external use of iodine. [In using iodide of potash as an ointment, it is better not to rub it in, as almost inv riably, sooner or later, and in irritable persons after two or three rubbings, it irritate the skin so much, that the cuticle separates and a sore is produced, which compels tl ; suspension of its employment. All the wished for advantages will be gained 1 simply smearing the ointment thickly over the affected part, and covering it wit a piece of lint once or twice a day; and very rarely is the skin in this way irr : tated. Some practitioners paint the swelling over with the tincture of iodine; bt this not unfrequently blisters the skin, and therefore its use cannot be persisted it —J. F. S.] 2181. Of all the remedies, both internal and external, recommended ii the treatment of lymphatic bronchocele, I prefer the internal use of burr sponge with ginger, sometimes with the addition of digitalis, and frequent smart rubbing with camphor liniment. From the results of my own ex perience, I have not done more by the internal and external use of iodin. than by the plan just mentioned; and where that has been inefficient, s has also iodine. 2182. When considerable alteration and cartilaginous hardening ha taken place in lymphatic bronchocele, and when by the cautious employ ment of internal and external remedies, no diminution of the swelling ha been produced, and symptoms threatening life arise, the lessening of the tumour may be effected by tying the superior thyroideal artery, if it bt much enlarged, and pulsate violently. But in these cases the introduction of a seton is most advantageous, by which the destruction of the swelling! by suppuration, and the obliteration of the vessels by the inflammation excited, is effected. 2183. The seton should be passed either from above downwards, oi from one side to the other, through the substance of the swollen gland ; ir doing which the superficial veins must be cautiously avoided, and the needle not passed too deeply. In general a reddish-brown thickish fluic escapes ; and some days after, the seton must be drawn further ; the in- flammation thereby excited is of little inconvenience to the patient. Ii the seton be not sufficiently active, a due degree of irritation may be ex- cited by smearing it with some acrid ointment; or pieces of hellebore root may be introduced with it. The seton must remain in for a long time m order to keep up suppuration till the cure is complete, and to prevent the burrowing of the pus. Suppuration rarely extends throughout the whole gland, but generally destroys only that part of it which is in the neig * I bourhood of the seton. If luxuriant granulations appear at the openings.. they must be snipped off. When suppuration ceases, and the wound has perfectly healed, the lessening of the bronchocele continues till it has completely disappeared. For some time the skin has a wrinkled ap- pearance, but soon afterwards becomes natural. At the scars the skin a first seems adherent to the thyroid gland, but this also disappears ma little time. Quadri’s successful cases show that a seton may be P8®®? repeatedly, even as often as sixteen times, in various directions t*lr0“?e" the bronchocele, without any particular symptoms appearing. I'1 re-introduction of a seton-needle through the still remaining part o ^ bronchocele, Quadri found considerable resistance at the part where had been previously employed ; on which account he concluded tna recurrence of bronchocele, after using a seton, was very mipro