11 INCARCERATION AND STRANGULATION. the attempt to return it behind the abdominal ring, a swelling is formed. The inguinal canal is full, hard, tense, painful, and presents to the feel a cylindrical swelling. Thirdly. Tearing of the hernial sac, or the inflammatory affection of the parts lying in the rupture, may be supposed to be causes of the strangula- tion, from the violence with which they operate upon the rupture itself; and in tearing the hernial sac, by the changes in its form which the hernial swelling undergoes from the projection of the intestines into the openino- of the sac (a). 3 Fourthly. The overfilling of the intestines with intestinal matter, causes strangulation, mostly slowly, in old ruptures, by its gradual collection, or by overfilling the stomach. According to Malgaigne, never does solid matter, but only intestinal gas collect; the true ground of strangulation is inflammation, which is consequent on such ruptures. . Fifthly. The growth of the intestine itself, and the strangulation result- ing therefrom, cannot be ascertained previous to operation. Malgaigne’s supposition, that the strangulation is not produced by the ring, but at tne neck of the sac, is too general; it is also opposed by Diday (6). 1135. According to the degree of disproportion between the containing and contained parts of the rupture, is the severity of the symptoms thereon depending. Therefore either merely the communication between the rupture and the cavity of the belly is stopped, (Incarceration; Incarceratio Hernia, Lat.; Einsperrung, Germ.,) or the protruded parts are at the same time so compressed, that the circulation of the blood and other juices is prevented ( Strangulation ; Strcmgulatio Hernia, Lat.; Einldemmunq, Arena.) In the latter case, the symptoms are dependent on the arrested passage of the intestinal matter, and on inflammation; they become very active on whmh account, this kind of strangulation is called inflammatory Zi In the former case, at least at the onset, the symptoms depend ' on . e arrested passage of the stools, they are little severe, and may continue longer, wherefore this kind of strangulation is distin- kt on lflh^T^5' bUt-lt rUnS earlier orlater int0 inflammatory strangu- m nil’ f 6 I"ProP°,rtl7on Proceed ^ the above-mentioned extent. It is sually connected with long-continued overloading of the intestine, lyino- bellv nnHP' ire’f-W 1 -St00 S’ °r With sPa-sraodie affection of the walls of the by vlJch helntSn" '“'“'‘"“"i ?f sfiasl,,,,'li'1' flatulent or bilious colic, IcarctaUmf *” ImmovaWy retaned in the rupture (.Spasmodic thS‘0^Sr7iJ±“l“ e £ f.“4 the classified the same, that is always st,'angulation w always, as regards its nature, but that it is only acute or Chronic accord^ a°,tual difference in its form occurs, gulation and the severity of the stran-’ Von Walther, Jaeger and nthpre > (Scarpa, Lawrence, Travers, Boyer proposed by Richter into inflnmru’L. °me ta ic 1? lts Wldest acceptation the division, stools, (Langenbeck Wilhftm T-tr 01sPasmodic, and that caused by collection of tion of the 8ymptoms al ^ j15a mOS> and others>) and differ only in their descrip- abdominal muscles, especiaUv of the w’ conseTlent on contraction of the some as a consequenceofL °1 the mgninal canal, (Langenbeck,) (A. Cooper,) and some as resulting °f the 1°ternal muscular inguinal ring, tendinous parts, arising from evprv ir tr” ^ sPas.modlc motion and contraction of the reference to the seat ottnlS ?mg- lmtat‘on (Wilhelm.) Rust assumes, in forming the opening of the imDture con^“f an,d P<tSsive> accol'dinS as the parts (a) B.K G rupture contract, and grasp the protruded parts, or according Annalen, voUi,'p",],; Cber Elnklemmung (lurch Zexreteung desBruchsacl.es ; in Heidelberg kliniscl.en (6; Gazette Medicale do Puris. 1841. No. 19.