OPERATIONS FOR. 489 ^ on an average for more than eighteen months and nineteen days ; and that one in B ye (i;es 0f the first operation. Another fact to be gathered from the table is, that the is eritoiurum being more prone to inflammatory action in some persons than in others, I meated tappings, instead of proving barriers to extirpation, show that (other circum- | aj,ces favourable) there is much less risk of inflammation fol lowing the operation (of it emoving the ovary.)” (pp. 237, 38).] . , , > The operations now generally performed for the extraction of dropsical or otherwise I ]seased ovary, are distinguished by the names, the small and the large operation. The small operation was evidently suggested by Dr. William Hunter (a), who *■ bserves:—“ If it be proposed, indeed, to make such a wound in the belly as will tit' dmit only two fingers or so, and then to tap the bag and draw it out, so as to bring j s root or peduncle close to the wound of the belly, that the Surgeon may cut it off inthout introducing his hand, surely in a case otherwise so desperate, it might be ik Ivisable to do it, could we beforehand know, that the circumstances would admit of 4s lat treatment.” (p. 45.) r, This operation was performed first and with success by Jeaffreson (b) of Framling- n am, in Suffolk, in 1836, and consisted in “ an incision of between ten and twelve lines i the course of the linea alba, midway between the navel and the pubes, and having »aus carefully exposed the sac he evacuated by the trocar, about twelve pints of clear •rum. During the flow of the serum, a portion of the sac was secured in the gripe of 5 forceps, to prevent its receding; and he afterwards extracted the sac entire from the fcb ivity of the abdomen, together with another sac containing two ounces of fluid; indeed v le entire ovary, having only to cut through a slight reflection of the peritonaeum and In varian ligament, which, with the exception of a small portion of the fimbriated extre- “i lity of the Fallopian tube, are the only natural attachments of the ovary to the uterus. ■ | -lut as this part was the medium of vascular supply to the sac, and the vessels on the ■i • irface of the sac were unusually large, but he thought right to include it in a ligature Si revious to returning it into the cavity of the abdomen; the ends of the ligature were ■; it off close to the knot.” (p. 242.) In King’s case (c) in which the same operation was urerformed, it was necessary, “ towards the termination of the extraction, that the open- 's* >g be enlarged to above three inches; and the obstruction which rendered this requisite, insisted of a solid tumour of about two and a half inches in diameter.” (p. 589.) ■ ‘ fkst’s was the third case, and he made a cut of two inches long in the linea alba, an >1- ich below the navel. The large operation, as practised by Macdowall of Kentucky, Lizars and Clay, is escribed by the latter (d) as “ a large incision of eighteen or twenty inches in length, or •om the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, the ovarian tumour is fully exposed, its pedicle id adhesions separated, its vessels secured, and the whole mass removed entire.” V alne (e,) who follows the same practice, after having made a small opening of an ich and a half in length below the navel, for the purpose of ascertaining the existence * any adhesions which may prevent the propriety of proceeding with the operation, lakes a cut of about thirteen inches, leaving a space of three inches from the pit of the ;°mach, and another an inch and a half from the pubes undivided. He advises, also, iat the skin should be marked with lunar caustic across the linea alba, previous to the peration, so as to ensure its proper re-adjustment afterwards. 1 he preliminary treatment consists in abstinence from animal food, and a general itiphlogistic regimen a few days previous to the operation, and Bird strongly recom- ‘ mis attention to the temperature of the room which was kept at 85° Fahr., and cra- uniy lowered as the patient became convalescent.] il923. In the critical examination of these various modes of treating en- y» ^dropsy, especially that of the ovarium, the following- circumstances ust be borne in mindthat in all cases in which the disease does not J*?™ annoyance, any operation is to be considered unallowable, as fre- „.i .,y th® tumour,when it has reached a certain bulk remains stationary, „]v Pf'^tmay ^ve f°r a long while; but by the puncture there is flench- ief’ 85 the fluid general]y re-collects so much the quicker the («) Re * 1S Puncturec*’ Sometimes life is much prolonged by repeated »« of itT Diseases uf¥,d lio" ofJPis,e“ed Ovaria.by the large incision, &c.; ani762Phy- MwmC8' V°L PP- 5;)’ °7’ 83> (*) Above cited. GA r'b°Te ' of Periton®al Section for the Extirpa (e) Removal of a Dropsical Ovarium entirely by the large operation. Two pamphlets, 1831.