606 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; much raised, its point sinks into the rectum. This opening is in genen very small, a mere puncture, through which only the intestinal gas and small quantity of faecal matter escapes into the wound. Second, when j withdrawing Frere Come’s lithotome or the common bistoury, the woun first made, is still increased. The pain which accompanies cutting throug the neck of the bladder often excites the patient to strain violently, an. thereby force the intestines violently into the pelvis, so that the rectm lies as a fold before the prostate. In old persons there is somethin an enlargement of the rectum, so that the prostate is usually lodged i a hollow of the gut, which also surrounds the neck of the bladder o both sides. In such case the rectum must be almost necessarily woundev in the withdrawal of Frere Gome’s lithotome. If the gut receive th' prostate only on one side in such hollow, it is advisable to operate on th right, side, and with great care (a). Third, the rectum may be wounded i drawing out a large angular stone; if the wound be small, and near th m. sphincter ani, and the patient young, strong, and healthy, the openin' frequently closes of itself without symptoms. Sometimes a fistulou opening remains after the wound in the neck of the bladder, and the membranous part of the urethra has closed, and communicating with the gut like a; common rectal fistula, is to be treated in the same manner Occasionally, the external wound closes, and there still remains a commu. nication between the neck of the bladder and the rectum, which, however* is in general so contracted, that but little urine passes through the rectum* and only a small quantity of fsecal matter by the urethra. Desault anc Dlipuytren have in such cases divided the rectum from the wound wit! success. The common practice is to introduce an elastic catheter into the bladder. According to Kern (V), in a wound of the rectum correspond- ing to the body of the bladder, the buttocks should be raised, frequent injections of warm water, and drawing off the urine several times a day. with the catheter, should be practised. The bladder is placed higher in children than in adults; therefore, as the parts, art cut through from without inwards, or from within outwards, a direction must be given: to the instrument, corresponding to a line supposed to be drawn from the navel to the! haunch-bone, so as more certainly to avoid injuring the rectum (c.) . [Wounding the rectum in performing the operation for the stone is, as far as I know,- of rare occurrence. I have seen but two cases in the course of thirty-three years; one was done in introducing the gorget, and the other in making the second cut with the. knife before the gorget was introduced. The Surgeons under whose care they were, wisely left them alone, and treated them as if no accident had happened. A littlet. feculent matter passed by the wound in the perinecum for a few days, after which tael rectum scarred, and no farther inconvenience ensued. I have never seen any instanoew in which division of the sphincter ani was requisite, and I doubt whether in England* such ever occurs. Should I ever meet with a recent case of the kind, I should advise » leaving it to nature.—.1. F. S.] 2106. When the rectum is protruded by the patient straining during the operation, it must be pressed baek and retained by an assistant with a pad upon the right side. . , , j Convulsions and fainting require the operation to be quickly finisher, and if that be not possible, and the patient’s danger great, the extraction* of the stone must be put off. , 2107. The after-treatment in general consists of cooling and mi . - I remedies. The patient should take an opiate after the operation, and must (a) Dkscuamps, above cited, vol. iii. p. 8. (l>) Above cited, p. 239. (c) Dupuvtbkn, above cited, p. 28.