557 CRUSHING, OK LITHOTRITY. b repeated, it being absolutely necessary that the operation should never he attempted on an L bladder. The forceps is next introduced, and, of course, with the blades closed. | It is first to be used as a sound, so as to ascertain the exact situation of the calcidus. If t this be not readily detected, the patient may be directed to turn on one side, placing c himself on his back again afterwards, by which change of position the calculus may pro- si bably be made to roll into some more convenient place within reach of the forceps. The * blades of the forceps are then to be cautiously opened over the calculus, and afterwards b closed upon it. By this simple management, with a light hand, the calculus is seized 3 with facility in many cases, otherwise you may adopt the following method, which rarely | fa;is: Let the forceps be opened with the convexity of its blades pressed against that part k of the bladder which is towards the rectum, so as to make it the lowest or most depending K situation. Then, by a slight motion given to the handle of the instrument, the calculus | ;s made to roll into its grasp, and thus I have often been enabled to remove several small stones at once. * * * When the calculus is grasped you may know exactly its I diameter by means of a scale fixed to the handle of the forceps.” If small, Brodie says, * forceps and stone may be withdrawn at once; if very large, so that it will not enter the urethra, it may be dropped at once, and other means resorted to ; but if of intermediate size, and capable of entering the urethra, from the easy dilatability of the neck of the |J bladder, so as to be “ drawn into that portion of the canal which lies in the perineeum, I and there stops, it may then be very distinctly felt through the integuments behind the scrotum ; and if a small incision be made on it in this situation, it is easily extracted, the forceps, after the removal of the stone, being closed and withdrawn in the usual manner.” An elastic catheter must be left in to draw off the water and prevent drib- bling through the wound. If the forceps and stone can be brought forward and only “ meet an impediment in the anterior part of the canal, that is, at the external orifice or exactly at the anterior part of the scrotum, or somewhere in the intermediate space; if the impediment be close to the orifice that part is easily dilated by means of a probe- pointed bistoury ; and if it be in another part of the canal, you may remove it by means of an incision made through the skin, corpus spongiosum, and membrane of the urethra. Let me caution you, however, never to make such an incision into the urethra immediately in front of the scrotum. It is difficult when you do so, even by the constant retention > tiof an elastic gum catheter, to prevent a small quantity of urine finding its way into the » Boose cellular texture of the scrotum, and this may be productive of a succession of trou- Itr blesome abscesses, or even of dangerous consequences.” (p. 283-87.)] V.—Of Crushing the Stone. wKLithotritia, Lithotripsia, Lat.; Zertriimmerung des Steines, Germ.; Lithotritie, Lithotripsie, Fr.) Leroy d’Etioi.le, Expose des diverses precedes pour guerir de la Pierre sans l’Ope- i ration de la Taille. Paris, 1825. Civiale, Destruction des Calculs sans avoir recours a la Taille. Paris, 1823. • , De la Lithotritie, ou Broiement de la Pierre dans la Yessie. Paris, 1826. 8vo. Bancal, Manuel pratique de la Lithotritie. Paris, 1829. Tanchon, Nouvelle Methode pour de'truire la Pierre dans la Vessie sans operation re! sanglante. Paris, 1830. )' Hegrteloup, Lettre a l’Acad. des Sciences. Examen critique de l’Ouvrage de M. le rU Dr. Civiaee, intitule, De la Lithotritie, Broiement de la Pierre dans la Vessie &c . Paris, 1827. 8vo. 77-, Principles of Lithotrity, or a Treatise on the Art of extracting the Stone without m ■ ncision. London, 1831. 8vo. ■ , Cases of Lithotrity. London, 1831. 8vo. Leroy d’Etiolle, De la Lithotripsie. Paris, 1836. ; Civiale, Parallele des divers Moyens de traiter les Calculeux. Paris, 1836. •, Traite de l’Affection Calculeuse. Paris, 1838. »;• 3 Schleiss VON Lowenfeld, Die Lithotripsie in Bezug auf Geschichte, Theorie und j raxis derselben unter Benutzung der neuesten Erfalirungen der Franzosischen Aerzte ‘Lneruber. Miinchen, 1839; with eight plates. I i \V')Ncmc,r’ V , Kritische Beleuchtung der Blasenstein-Zertriimmerung, wie sie heute ■1(1 lias teht. Wien, 1842.