63 DIVISION OF STRICTURE. in its vaginal tunic, being doubly covered by the peritoneum, to the one part of which it is firmly and to the other loosely attached. This sometimes also occurs when the fat rupture passes out by any other of the natural openings in the belly. Although how" ever, fat ruptures be found in the scrotum without any peritoneal covering, the perito neum is more or less withdrawn or not at all connected with them, if they be merely collections of fat in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord. Although the cavities formed by the double lengthening of the peritoneum do not close, but communicate with the cavity of the belly, as does the cavity of the vaginal tunic in congenital rupture vet the fatty mass usually fills the sac so completely, that very rarely does intestine of omentum descend with it and complicate the case. The distinction of this fat-runture from true rupture is often very difficult. Its gradual growth, and its freedom from nain on pressure, even when very considerable, are characteristic symptoms: but their resemolance to omental ruptures has even deceived the most experienced practitioners If severe colic or the like accompany such swelling, a mistake is the more easy, and is only fiist discoveied in the operation (Scarpa, Crcvelhier, Ollivier.) Compare also on this subject Morgagni, De sedibus et causis Morborum, Epist xlv art. 10. Epist. 1. art. 34. F aiv. Pelletan, Clinique chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 33. JSefSes^r^MS?” GXt~S 8U **ritoine> ^ P«™nt PhUadlJhffi,' I8132CyClOP8edia °f Pl’aCt‘ Medicine aud Surgery, edited by Isaac Hays. 1204. Collections of pus which pass along the spermatic cord, out at the ibdominal ring may diminish or disappear in the supine posture and increase on coughing and any other exertion ; the fluctuation, the presence f symPtoms of psoas abscess or of caries of the vertebral column may however, guide the practitioner. mW’ ,l.2?5‘ Infuinal ruptures must be returned in the same direction bv which they have protruded, that is, the external or oblique from below upwards, and from within outwards; and the internal or direct from ioLUPrrds and dlrec% from before backwards. ’ . 1 i'b- hor the purpose of keeping the rupture up, a truss with a semi lrcular spring which closely surrounds one half of the pelvis is best r ■ short neck the ^Pture with •here the swellint ^ commenced above the abdominal ring- tcer.aine.1 by fell "0t continued till it has O not lie upon the hernial !ae '^v/ "'1,3‘l'er the 3r8™atie cord do or 'c opening may be made boldlv T, i fr" 13 mucll ',a(er i,J the sac, oned, (par 1170 nf i • ,du a<hbtion to the signs already men- ■&, ill t is"? he™al Sac’ '"is ,e abdominal ring, the ring- camiot bl^ with th« pillars of ring cannot be penetrated before the opening of