CAUSES. 153 tpain in the neck it be inclined to one side (3), by spasm and organic ; change in the structure of the m. sterno-mastoideus. If the cause lie in the (unnatural activity of this muscle, it is always found, on the side to which the head is drawn, stretched like a cord, hard and unyielding ; in attempt- ing to bring the head into its proper position, the muscle becomes more 'tense and prevents it (4). It is really only the m. sterno-mastoideus which is primarily shortened, and most commonly on the right side; rarely, also, the in. cleido-mastoideus and cucullus ; the m. platysma myoides, may also be shortened. Frequently is the m. sterno-mastoideus of one side palsied and the natural contraction of that of the other draws down the head! iln this case the dissimilarity of the two sides of the face and the distor- tion of the features are not so great, as in wry neck from unnatural muscular contraction ; the head is drawn only towards the shoulder but the chin is not raised (5). That the cause of the evil is in the bones is known, when no change can be observed in the muscles, and the general symptoms of softening of bone be present. The head is also usually nore movable than in the former cases (6). (1) Stromeyer (a) remarks on the coincidence of congenital shortening of the «. sterno-mastoideus with the irregular position of the child, so that a breech-birth takes dace, or turning is necessary. (2) After difficult delivery, and after the application of forceps, a little round bluish lougny swelling above the collar-bone, corresponding to the course of the m sterno- lasloideus, is frequently observed, which, after subsiding, leaves to be felt a hard )ieffexb^hC)’ dependlns 0n partial or comPlete tearing of the muscle (Stromeyer, (3) I have noticed a wry neck which arose from the application of a blister behind ae ear, and in a short time became considerable. [(4) Although generally in wry neck the muscle or muscles causing it are felt con- acted like a cord, yet this is not always so. Syme (6) mentions an instance of this “d % o7 Wlt ‘lateral curvature. “ Observing that his head inclined to one side I amin?d ,t l(r. sterno-mastcid, and found it, not tense and rigid as I had exnected but >ft and yielding. I perceived, however, that when an attempt was made to toe fthe e^lS^S.?611 and b6Came tenS6’ and therefore concluded that it was the seat (o) Brodie mentions (c) a remarkable example of wry neck alternating w5tb isamty, among the instances he gives of persons “ labouring imder some diseased the toed during the whoto of the £oauf *2 1“sa“,t? ! and ia this she con- e disordered condition of her mind and t'he At th<3 °f thls Period she recovered of -that period up to the time of my being c g upon miwcXr^o^ctira^the tostort^™ a?ainst mistaking for wry neck depend- rics between the kead \hich proceeds from ^ *n y°UDg to a cearSsrodbseS “) On°booitPd’d).131' wt* "-** *» > *■ trattve of certmn Local Nervous Affections. London, 1837. 8vo.