AMPUTATION OF SCIRRHOUS BREAST; 798 assistants, and after its completion, tied (2). The wound must then be* cleansed, carefully examined, and every diseased part seized with the hook i or forceps, and removed. The edges of the wound are to be brought into perfect contact, and fastened with sticking plaster, lint and compresses,' applied, and the whole supported with a broad breast-bandage (3). The after-treatment is according to the ordinary rules. ['(I') The horizontal posture on a table is preferable to sitting in a chair, because the patient can be more completely steadied, and also because there is much less chance ol her fainting; for if, as sometimes happens, there be a large escape of blood, she faints: so completely that the operation must be delayed till she be restored. (2) If the scirrhous tumour involve the whole breast, and. be very large, with nillj swelling veins, the operator must carefully look to the bleeding, and I think, tie at once either arteries or veins, which may pour freely, as in a very few minutes very serious and even fatal consequences may ensue; of such a case I have a very painful recollection. I operated many years since upon an elderly woman who had an enormously large scirrhous breast, and the veins of the skin covering it were much swollen. Before the operationl feared there would be severe bleeding, and proposed taking up the vessels as they were cut through during the course of the operation, but this was overruled, and press with the fingers was determined on, leaving the vessels to be tied after the operation. The bleeding was terrific, aud poured from so many vems that it was not possible to grasp and close them. The operation was not tedious, but I had hardly removed th swelling before the woman had died. A lesson not to be forgotten. , .. . (3) The less dressing the wound of the operation is subjected to the better; and it is certainly advantageousnot to dress it immediately, for many little vessels which have ceased bleeding whilst exposed, and the patient is faintish, burst forth, often furl0ufb’ when thevmumi has beenVought together at once, and the Pf-^Xle^^ the circulation restored, so that in the course of two or three hours, the whole cavity formed by the removal of the breast, becomes distended with ^°od’f ^^fetances in<r makes its way through the plaster, the patient is drenched in blood and >nstan have not been wanting in which her life has been lost in consequence. It is, therefore, a^ec^oT^ine^/noriin^fth^fciff'^wMch s^l«0to^he rannwtjbegot^ drived Neither is the linen to be jammed and kneaded into every crack and cra.myo “r*reptacrf Mor the bleeding ceases. Any vessels which bleed, n drawn together, and and after lour or six hours, the edges of the woundihalf an inch apart, to retained in place by long strips of plaster, c " • ce of linen may also bo allow the escape o/the serum as it separates. A w piece of 1™"™^ the advantageously laid over the strapping, and i P ‘ i ' i ,,jLer’ nut on compress or arterial action of the part, and keeps down inflammat,^. I never put on cm P bandage at the first dressing. With Uns mode of few dressing before the fourth or fifth day, when a poult ce should PI ^jjon hours, to soften the strapping, and facilitate its removal. If"SL1without dis- the breast become tender and inflamed, a light biead and . p oipptira- Srbing the dressing, is very grateful to the patients tinn at anv parts disposed to that process, after which the din close to the subsides. ‘The principal use of a roller round the chest is to keeP the g not c<,m- inuscle beneath, so as to prevent the pus bagging, if the two surfac _ha at ally etely united; and under such circumstances, compresses may also be req the Sdofltie healing of the wound But as a general rule, the lighter ge Sesring Cflwbetter the case proceeds.—J. F. S.] 2467. In amputation of the breast, the skin cuts carried around the base of the tumour, from the pectoral muscle from below upwards, more sure to save the skin than removing the must be divided by which must be deta ^J This method is at 1<* swelling, by one ormo^ more sure to save me ’ fw hp method recommen strokes with an amputating-kmfe, or than by the metnoa lit- i u ; Mr i .n r trt jttt - * 1 !JS1 - Mi.' hs ii» i Jin Ief :SJ iyi -jo ■n nit ■■fj an s# \ Jtit •it ,x -1 it on j *4