517 CONSTITUENTS OF. once formed is less difficult to understand and to explain. It must not, however, be overlooked that the altered condition of the kidneys, and of the urinary organs in general, has an important influence in the produc- tion of stone. 198S. The general constituents of stones, excepting t.he animal matter existing in different quantity as the connecting material, are: — 1. Uric Acid. 6. Carbonate of Lime. 2. Urate of Ammonia. 7. Silica (l). 3. Phosphate of Lime. 8. Cystic Oxide. 4. Phosphate of Ammonia and 9. Xanthic Oxide. Magnesia. 10. Iron (1). 5. Oxalate of Lime. Of these substances the following occur in the nuclei of stones, or they may form their entire bulk :— (a) Uric Acid. (d) Cystic Oxide. (b) Urate of Ammonia. (e) Xanthic Oxide. (c) Oxalate of Lime. (f) Phosphate of Ammonia an d Magnesia. From these six substances, which form the nucleus, or the entire bulk of a stone, the various kinds of gravel are also produced. Besides the ten above mentioned constituents, von Walther has also given phos- phate of ammonia and lime, and the acid phosphate of lime (2). Both these substances appear to me doubtful. Not merely is the phosphate of ammonia and lime altogether new as an addition to the constituents of stone, but also new as a combination of phos- phoric acid, for phosphate of ammonia and lime, is not admitted by any chemist. In respect to the acid phosphate of lime, von Walther supposes that it alone is capable of forming concretions, but that on the other hand, the neutral phosphate of lime only occurs in the layers. It is to be regretted that von Walther has not given the careful analysis of Fuchs on this subject; as it is difficult to understand how the acid phosphate oi lime, which is so very soluble, that even in the air it softens into a molten glass-like mass, can form stones. It is important here also to observe that the acid phosphate of nme is not met with in gravel, in which, however, all the other substances are found which are capable of forming the nucleus of a stone. Walther’s assertion that phos- pnate of lime occurs only in the layers, is contradicted by the observations of Wol- Laston (ra), who examined urinary stones which consisted entirely of phosphate of me. I heir surface, he says, is pale brown, and as smooth as if polished; their inte- \ot consists of regular layers, which can easily be separated into concentric plates. -i ar®’ ^cording to Marcet, very rare. Perhaps this contradiction may be conciied by the fact that these are such stones as are formed in the prostate eland frostauc stones of Marcet,) which consist of a neutral phosphate of lime, coloured by tinl/T ]°c °f the PI'ostate> by which, according to Marcet, these stones can be dis- wiP'vl , trU* unnary stones. Or there may perhaps have been a nucleus which c£:r°0keP The carhonate °f Ume (first mentioned by Bergmann, since by the o ftlP’ P,d most JccenUy by von Walther) is found, according to the latter, in annearl tp fta-Cf °f the ,sU)ne. Wlth tlle phosphates, but not in the layers, and it oS °f °v n U0 corabination with the uric acid, the urate of ammonia, and the of limp nr noT' ,Gol?BEE (J) describes a stone which consisted, he says, of carbonate orinPv 'mnoJ’ “S “""P matter Wlth si,ica 3>125- Silica is met ™th but rarely in to IliiL! IS a’wa?s accompanied by uric acid or oxalate of lime. According water and thp r S/ar™ cxists s™a11 quantity in the urine; he derives it from the fibrin of th? i w MfVRCET f°Rnd in one stone a substance corresponding with the Phosphate Prut d {^hntn strfcf Iron ls f°und in combination with uric acid, with C!Vi “taate °f Iim,e’. and as bon ochre. Brugnatelli has found little stones /'nn a fitu0ne> 'ib'ch he describes among the more rare, consisting of bard tXn?1 t,°gCtP'r’ ?f a Srayish colour, with a smell like cantor, light but ■•o, ami containing also phosphate and oxalate of lime. P-39.i. 1797 Transactions, vol. lxxxvii. (/,) In Thommsoorff’s Ncuo Journal do I’liar- made, vol. vi. p. l‘»S.