OPERATION FOR CANCER OF TIIE LIPS. 774 Ulcers on tlie lips are often malignant, without being cancerous; as the continua movement of the lips, and the flow of spittle and the like, prevent their healing, am I a keep up constant irritation. Syphilitic sores on the lips often assume a malignai. :i character; they mostly begin with a vesicle which hursts, and the ulceration spread q from the skin to the other tissues. Not unfrequently, also, ill-conditioned ulcers an kept up by bad teeth (a). 2419. The only efficient mode of treating cancer of the lip is, tht removal of the diseased parts by cutting them out; and this is pre- ferable to the use of caustic. The operation is only contraindicatec when the cancerous degeneration has spread considerably on the inside o: the mouth, the submaxillary glands and so on, which render the complete removal of the disease impossible. The mode of operating varies accord- ing to the extent of the cancer. 2420. If the cancer do not spread down beyond the red part of the lip, and only affect more or less of the edge of the lip, it is best whilst holding the diseased part with the left hand, or with G raefe s entropium-fm- ceps, and pulling it well up, to cut it off through the healthy part, by a slight sweeping cut with a pair of scissors curved towards their surface; The spouting labial arteries are to tied or twisted, and the wound, covered with a sponge dipped in cold water till the bleeding ceases en- tirely. German tinder is then to be applied, and when after three or four days, suppuration is set up, a linen rag dipped in lukewarm waten should be put on till the scarring is complete. In from ten to twelve days a linear scar is formed by the union of the mucous membrane of t e mouth with the external skin, in consequence of which the lip draws up, so that in great loss of substance the alveolar process and teeth are more> or less completely covered again ; but in less loss of substance there is scarcely any noticeable depression of the lip remaining, as my numerous* cases have proved. The ordinary way of removing the cancerous part J two cuts meeting at an angle, causes in these cases a great loss o su stance (b). [Notwithstanding Chelius’s recommendation, I think the old me4°d of treabng these cases with the angular cut is safest; the depth to which the cut s iou <■ of course will depend on the extent of the disease. J. F. S.J „■ 2421. If the cancer have spread down beyond the red edge of Pj the whole degenerated part must be removed by two cuts " "c 1 f ^ meet at an acute angle. In doing this an assistant steadies 1C ^ j)can><,1 his fingers on both sides, compressing the coronary- arteries at tne time. The operator with the thumb and forefinger of the left 18,1 b the diseased part, lifts it up a little, places the knife upon t u et lip, carries it obliquely downwards and inwards, and then ma e> cut in the same way on the other side, so that a V shaped piece i> ‘. Its connexion with the gums and chin is then divided, the N ^ vessels twisted or tied, and the edges of the wound brought t0o jn in the operation for hare-lip with the twisted suture ’ doing which the bleeding is generally stopped without any hga ' ]ip> If the cancer spread from the corner of the mouth over tne and the corner must be removed with a semilunar or an angu a ^ gt afterwards the V shaped cut must be made downwards, i ntal|y or the corner of the mouth is first to be brought together ho obliquely, and then the remaining wound readily meets. Icide Eaht.k, above cited, p. 2/1.—Cheiivs; in Heidelb. klin. Ann., vol. iii. (6) Richkrand la Cliirurgic, p. 21S. Histoire des I’rog™* rrcen* de SffcMB - —ss