521 CONSTITUENTS OF. »iIone or in combination with uric acid, or urate of ammonia; how the >xalic diathesis is preceded or followed by the uric, and how both dia- ‘heses stand in near relation to each other. These occurrences may also t je explained by deriving the oxalic acid from conversion of the uric acid. Cystin. 1996. Stones of cystic oxide, first discovered by Wollaston, are rare, (A ilthougli Civiale believes that cystic oxide is much more frequently pre- i sent than has been hitherto supposed. They usually consist entirely of a this substance ; whence it has been concluded that the cystic oxide diathesis ■prevents the formation of other stones more than any other diathesis (a). 1,5 Wollaston had seen two stones of cystic oxide covered with a loose v layer of phosphate of lime. Bird (b) has, from chemical examination, ^disproved the assertion that the cystic oxide diathesis is never present ■with other diatheses; the simultaneous presence of the uric acid diathesis oi s proved by cases in which stones of cystin have been observed, where q he patients, either before or after, have passed stones of uric acid. jjFelloly found a stone of cystic oxide, with a nucleus of uric acid, in a ^Lohild, in whom a new stone was formed a year after, which had also a l^nucleus of uric acid, though its exterior consisted of phosphates : a stone !*> )f uric acid had as its nucleus a small portion of cystic oxide (PIenry) ; flui stone of oxalate of lime had been previously removed (Prout) ; Civi- 1 liLE found one stone of cystic oxide in the bladder, and one of phosphates ■minder the prepuce; Lassaigne found a small quantity of phosphate and tfiioxalate of lime combined with cystic oxide (c). ■ 1997. The circumstances under which stones are formed from cystic sbxide have, in reference to the place where they are produced, the greatest ■ Unalogy with those which attend the formation of uric acid and oxalate »H)f lime. They are principally formed in the kidneys, and their origin is jpco be considered as the consequence of a transformation of the urea, or of n he uric acid, to which the cystic oxide is allied by its nitrogenous contents. otA-ccording to the experiments of Thaulow and others, cystic oxide con- ftains, besides carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, a large quantity of Hiulpliur (C6 N2 H12 O4 S2.) It is a peculiar circumstance, that persons ib)f the same family are affected with stones of cystic oxide, as out of Irwenty-two cases of such stones, ten occurred in four families, in which SviH>metimes two, sometimes three individuals were subject to them, and ! among these, in three, instances, brothers (d). Xanthic Oxide. 1998. The xanthic oxide, uric oxide, first mentioned by Marcet (e) U md more precisely defined by the inquiries of Woeiiler and Liebig ( /'), L incurs very rarely. The earlier opinion that it was nearly allied to, per- iaps only a modification of uric acid, has been confirmed by the observa- | ;10ns of Woeiiler and Liebig, who have proved that it has the same f ' nstltuents as uric acid, but with one atom less of oxygen ; that uric acid t] xanthic oxide are radically the same, but in two different stages of If a 10n -^4 O2-) Xanthic oxide, however, is never found in (/,) Bifv'H Tui'tC<'’ p.77. (,i) Civiale, above cited, p. 608. I (c) Un, , ? “ ReP°rte. vo1- P- 492. (\) Above cited, p. 85-94. | >ou. (/)Poookndorkk's Anniilen, vol.xli. p. 39J. 1637