963 EXARTICULATION OF HAND, &c. left, ami on the outer if upon the right arm, marks with varnish an oval, which begins on the outer edge of the radius four fingers’ breadth below the bend of the elbow, and terminates on the hind edge of the ulna three fingers’ breadth below the bend of the arm. Following this mark he cuts through the skin, which, by dividing its connexions and diawing back with his left hand, he separates to the extent of eighteen lines. He then cuts through the muscles down to the bone, holds back the fleshy parts like a ball and divides the deep muscles circularly, at the same time passing between the joint surfaces of the uppei-arm-bone and radius, and completes the exarticulation by division of the ligaments and of the tendon of the m. triceps near the tip of the olechranon. The soft £ 'I ',Cn,°'ViU W6lsht dl'op °™T the j°int surfaces and form a hollow globe in the point of which the joint surface of the humerus is found. After tying the vessels the wound is brought together lengthways. * 8 6 VIII.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE HAND AT THE WRIST. (Exarticulatio Manus, Lat. Ahlosuny der Hand, Germ. Poignet, Fr.) Disarticulation du 2814. The brachial artery is to be compressed with the tourniauet • one assistant holds the fore-arm and draws the skin back, a second holds the hand. 1 he operator, standing on the inner side for the left, and on ie outer for the right hand, makes a circular cut through the skin half an inch from the spinous process of the radius. The skin is next dissected up, without the tendons, to the wrist, turned inside out, and held by the ~ I ie 'ianc 18 now Put between pronation and supination, the knife placed before the spinous process of the radius, and whilst the hand s piessed down, the whole knife is carried into the joint, obliquely to- vaids the ulna, and divides all the ligaments and tendons. The edg-es of dtSTof “heejo‘rS ,he VeSSClS’ are br0Ught t0getl,C1' in t,le °“ong is*1 nVle fb°,Ve'Cles,cnbed mode of proceeding is better than by dividing the skin and tpnd™ „ the f thG hflaDd by a suniicircula'' to pass into the join® anfdrawinfdow, I™ ku'fe, toform a flap on the front of the band. Or, according to Lisfranp tlf„ i , ' 6 ^ -betTeel? Pronation and supination, a narrow knife is thrust through the tnft ^ parts opposite the joint on the palmar surface from one side to theXrandfhen\ • ■ drawn down forms a flap; after which a semicircular cut is throSi TheTkto^ g dhe dorsa! surface, the flap turned back and the joint divided fFom Z fadZ UP°n , amputation through the wrist-joint be performed with flans sneeiil nn,'a * i f ken to avoid, in forming the front flap, the pisiform kmfe, and unless well cleared, spoils the edge of the skin-cut.-J. F. S.] catches the (X.-OF bqnes at thfjr nWdlp an/ : 18 n0T,tO be COnsidered- The exarticulation of the ase boin rU1^ metacarpal bones is not to be recommended. The dis- ttender! ^ |f°.I?^ned *° any one °f these bones, tlie operation is C Collections of pus take place in^he carp’? InvV ee 1 • exartlcldatlon of the hand afterwards becomes necessary as have seen ,n two cases. It is better therefore under such cTrmim! 3 Q 2