CONSTITUENTS OP. 519 | of this, the ammonia entirely or in part quits the uric acid with which it ; was in combination, and is precipitated pure, or combined with a little c ammonia; but not, as Wetzlar supposes, by the soda being withdrawn. According to Liebig (a), there is produced, by the action of the uric and hippuric in acids upon the phosphate of soda, an acid salt of soda from these acids on the one side, ID- and an acid phospate of soda on the other side. From which, and from the sulphates contained in the urine, he deduces the acid condition of the fluid. 1990. To attribute the development of such an acid in the urine it: from an excess of acidity of the juices, cannot be considered groundless, j$ on account of Magendie’s assertion that acids do not pass into the blood. If we cannot, indeed, prove the presence of free acids in the blood, as it has always an alkaline nature, yet, it is to be remembered, that if even no free acid can be found in the blood, yet from its approxi- mation to a neutral state a change is caused, which renders possible the secretion of free acids through the urine. To this former opinion of Magendie’s, a later one, advanced in an essay read before the Academie des Sciences, on the 18th of September, 1826 (b), stands opposed, where he brings forward the daily use of sorrel, which contains much oxalic acid, -as the exciting cause of almost every stone consisting of pure oxalate of lime. With this, also, IIowship’s (c) observations agree, which show that if a patient, who, on account of phosphatic gravel, has used acids, v take more acid than is necessary to neutralise the alkaline condition of i the urine, and to dissolve the precipitated earthy constituents, the white >v gravel indeed disappears, but red, uric acid gravel is soon produced in its f :stead. Morichini’s (d) experiments also support this view ; he found ^v.that people who have lived long, and almost exclusively upon sour fruit, present citric and malic acid in their urine. But Woehler’s (e) experi- iluments are still more conclusive. It Strong mineral acids are not capable of rendering the urine acid, probably because s their strong affinity for the soda in the blood destroys its combination with the albumen i whereby neutral salts are formed, which pass off as such with the urine. Oxalate of Lime. 1991. Walther doubts whether simple oxalate of lime and the con- u1 necting material can form urinary stones. It is frequently found as the ? nucleus of a stone, though never alone, but combined with uric acid and urate of ammonia. In the layers it is most commonly found with phos- i. phates (/). The inquiries of Rapp, however (,g), and the stone from six a| o seven lines long and two thick, noticed by Magendie, and examined v oy Besprets, which consisted almost entirely of pure oxalate of lime °f the P°ssibility of such a formation ; as well, also, as that • f°rmless sediment, according to Prout, is never combined ! bvith uric acid. I *V92, *!K°UT Sieves that the oxalic acid is produced by the decom- t on of the uric acid, as in urinary stones a nucleus consisting of uric I cm ,s frequently found, surrounded with oxalate of lime ; thus the oxalic (?) Above cited, p. 193. ^pKOR,HeVl? ,M,'aiTOle- 1826, vol. iv. p. 140.- I « 0tlOT' ly2(i. No. 33. ‘ ^mise, l)l J“Cti-Cal ■Tre,l'isc on the Symptoms, B he“ ,,,SCnm,natlon I>'"1 Treatment of some of ler, i he m’„ . V™™'1"" anil I reatment of some of important Complaints that affect the rj sS° vo. Lxcrct,on of »>e Urine. I-ondon, ..,(*0 Meckel’s Arcliiv. fur die Physiologic, vol* in. p. 407. • V£raUche (^en Uebergang von Malerien in non Ilarn j in Tiedemann’s Zeitschr. fiir 1’hy- siologio, u. a. w., vol. i. p. 125. (/) Above* cited, p. 208. (g) Ueber Harnsteino ; in Naturwissenschaftli- chen Abhandluiigen, vol. i. p. 138. Tubingen, 1820