ACCIDENTS OF BLOODLETTING. 862 depth of the opening. The middle, ring- and little finger of the hand hold- • ino- the lancet, are now placed upon the arm, and the thumb and forefinger brought to and so dropped on it, that when they are stretched out, the point of the lancet may penetrate obliquely into the vein, immediately on which the blood shows on the lancet-blade, and the fingers being raised, the opening in the vein is enlarged, and the spouting blood is to be caught by an assistant in a proper vessel. The operator now passes to the outer side of the arm, supports it, the one hand being applied to the tore- and the other to the upper-arm without altering its position ; or he allows the, patient to grasp the end of a stick resting on the ground. TThis mode of bloodletting is not the best that can be employed, and the management, of the lancet is both awkward and bad, and if, as is occasionaUy abso utely a vein running over an artery have to be opened, the pushing the point of the lancet obliquely into the vein is dangerous, as though the vein be wide, it may not have much thickness, and its coats both behind as well as before, together with whatever majr be behind may be pierced even by the most clever operator. The readiest and best me- thod is after selecting the vein? to grasp the fore-arm just below the elbow, with one hand the thumb of which is to be placed firmly upon the vein, just below where it is which is often the consequence of opening the vein, as recommended by Cmmius, very commonly practised, is prevented. J. r.o.J _ , , . 2619 When the proper quantity of blood has been obtained, the no of the banlge is Jbe untied, the^und aod it, neighboured-^ with a moist sponge, the wound covered with the thumb. of one whilst with the other, a little compress is slipped from the side of > over the wound, which it presses on the removal of the thumb *° press is then steadied by putting the thumb upon it, and “fore- arm, fixed with a bandage, which is to be carried round the elbow insev ral fkmre of S turns. The arm is to be kept quiet. _ 2620. The particular accidents which may occur during tie °P ^ are, a. A faulty stab, in which case the operation must be 1 fi. The formation of a too small opening ; the wound must then b ^ larged, 'or another place chosen, y. Stoppage of the f / ition*; displacement of the skin when the arm is moiec m o nl0re the1 arm must then be restored to its proper place, and be bent, the blood stroked upwards, and the hand moved, the bandage being tied too tight, which must then be sjackened, aperture being stopped up• by a littto lump ° > 0^blood in the when the patient must ue ini-- .M,nd- < air? sprinkling with cold water, and the like 3. arterial i ina J nerve. «. Wounding an artery, which may be known blood spouting out together with tlie venous by ar enal b checked by to How after the removal of the bandage, and by it not D S consists i ^res-re below, but above the wound. The ^ment jn^s cpc ^ of pressure and binding up the arm fthe aponeurotic expan- \ 4'. Wound of a lymphatic vessel, of a tendon, oi J 1