REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. 914 Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. Remarks. Dis- charged. Died. - 1840 continued. Samuel Armstrong, need 16, admitted March 24. Ulceration of cartilages, with Muppuration^and ad- hesive deposit on syno- vial membrane of right knee-joint. Much out of health. March 28. With tico horizontal flaps; three arteries tied, but the medullnry artery oozed freely, except when stopped by pressure; the flaps brought together lour hours after with adhesive plaster. On the fifteenth day irritative fever came on, with much head-ache, and could not be checked. •• April 2 Thirty- two da) after: oj*ratio » Hugh Evans, aged 20 (sailor), ad- mitted May 2. Compound fracture of left leg, with severe lacera- tion of muscle3, and sim- ple fracture of same thigh into the joint, consequent on timber falling upon the limb. Had lost much blood. May 2. Three hours and u-hali after accident. With two horizontal flaps ; four arteries were tied. The wound was sloughy, but lmd cleared on the eleventh day, up to which time he hnd been tolerably well. On the thirteenth day was at- tacked 6fiddenly with pleuritic symptoms, and the sputum slightly tinged with blood ; some little cessation of these symptoms occurred, but he sunk. The left pleura contained straw- coloured serum, with flakes of coagulable lymph, and both costal and pulmonary sur- faces covered with lymph ; the lower lobe of left lung infiltrated with pus ; its apex consoli- dated. May 2* Kigntee days • after .i i>;.erat.o Henry Parker,aged 43 (brewer’s ser- vant), admitted June 1. Compound fracture of the left thigh, with laceration from the inner condyle to nearly the pubes, but not much bruising: lace- ration of right hund and dislocated metacarpal bone; consequent on trnnsit of a loaded dray- wheel. Much depressed on his admission. June 1. Four liourB after accident. With two flaps; immediately on making the first he was violently sick, and I tied the femoral artery before making the second. Some other arteries tied; an hour after operation was vio- lently sick, and once after. Four hours after the flaps brought together with three sutures and straps of plaster ; vomited again during the night. Twenty hours after the first opera- tion, amputation through the wrist-ioint, with a flap from the back of the hand, and five ligatures applied. Sutures in thigh removed after one hundred and eighteen hours ; the wound sloughy. On seventh day attacked with irrita- tive fever, and on the day following was much purged, and this continued till he sunk. On examination there were found a little lobular pneumonia, principally in left lung ; some ulce- ration of mucous membrane of intestines. June U Tnirtee days afur ' .eratio Robert Richards, aged 15, admitted June 16. . Soft anchylosis of right knee. Disease began nine years since after a fall. July 25. With horizontal flaps; six arteries tied ; the wound brought together with a single strap, and the dressing completed eight hours after. On the fifth day the bone began to protrude, and could not be replaced, but the wound healed, except- ing immediately around it, in course of six weeks; and at the end of two months a little ring of bone separated; the wound had not completely healed when he left. Oct. 20. Benjamin Scott, nged 9, admitted June 9. Soft anchylosis of left knee. Disease began five years since, without known cause. Sept. 19. With circular cut; four arteries and the femoral vein were tied ; the edges of the wound brought together with n single strap, nnd the dressing completed seven hours after; went on without a bad symptom. Dec. 15. James Vinson, aged 35 (furm-ser-' vant), admitted Aug. 18. Ulceration of cartilnges of right knee-joint, adhe- sive deposit on the syno- viul membrane; the joint full of pus ; and the bursa of the m. rectus full of pus. Originated in a blow with a shovel nine years since. Nov. 14. With circular cut; the muscles did not retract; nnd in dividing them, tho nbsce»B beneath the tendon of the m. rectus was cut through, but the part on the stump was left; nine arteries were tied; he was much exhausted by the ope- ration, nnd passed his motions involuntarily; the wound was brought together at once with adhesive straps; the stump was perfectly healed in three weeks. Feb. 2, 1841. John Pearmon, aged 19, admitted Nov. 10. Soft anchylosis of the left knee; abscess nbovo the head of the shin-bone; the remaining joint-car- tilages ulcerated. Dec. 5. With the circular ml ; six arteries and the femo- rnl vein were tied; the edecs of the wound were at once brought together with adhesive straps, but three hours after bleeding recurred, nnd four more small arteries were tied ; the wound was dressed as before ; went on very well forn fortnight, and then the stump became sloughy, but it cleared in a few days. Feb. 2, 1841. __ [Since the last sheet has been worked off, I have met with another paper of Svjie on amputation of the thigh (a) which I had accidentally overlooked, in whtch, «te having advocated since 1823 the superiority of flap-amputations over those l>y tne c cular cut, he now states“ When the flaps are placed together it seems as if notn s could prevent their perfect union so as to effect a speedy cure, and afford a com tor u. covering to the bone. In some cases these favourable anticipations are fully rea1' '• but though a good many days, and even one or two weeks, may elapse without ina g manifest the disappointment to be experienced, it much more fr^uenffl*PPf‘ „ the soft parts, however ample they may have appeared in the lint mstonce, ^ contract and diminish until care is required to keep their edges mdenuded, bone, which sometimes, notwithstanding every precaution, at length becomes at (n) Monthly Journal of Medical Science. Nov., 1846.