RECURRING PULSATION. 223 3in experienced and skilful operator,” says he, “ may accomplish this object with very ittle disturbance of the artery, from its natural situation and connections; yet I cannot a>ut suspect that Surgeons in general may not be so successful, especially in cases where, rom the deep situation of the vessel, the surrounding it with a ligature depends more on | eeling than on sight.” (p. 248.) It does not appear whether Abernethy originally proposed the division of the artery s letween the ligatures, to admit the retraction of its ends, or whether he was aware of | Jalen’s advice (a) on this point, which was to the same effect. “ If the artery be large,” 4 ays Galen, “ and if it can be cicatrized beyond the aneurysm, the whole of it should i >e cut through, and oftentimes that very practice prevents the danger from ha;morrha°-e • | :ir it appears plainly that when a complete transverse division is made, both portions of the i rtery retract on either side, the one above the part and the other below it.” 1425. After the performance of the operation for aneurysm, the limb 15 to be put into such position, that the artery be not stretched ; the | .atient should be kept, in the most perfect bodily and mental quiet, should i e surrounded with well-advised assistants, and treated according as % iflammatory or spasmodic symptoms occur. After the operation of R pening the sac, the dressing is to be renewed every third or fourth day ; hen the ligatures separate, and the wound is filled with granulations’ 3 s edges are to be brought together with sticking plaster. After the i' Iunterian operation, the wound is to be treated as one which is to be ured by quick union. In these modes of treatment, immediately after Iie artery is tied, the pulsation in the aneurysmal sac ceases, the swelling r. radually becomes smaller, and at last completely disappears. The pul° ition, however, shows itself anew, and often very quickly, in consequence I 1 which, the Surgeon may fall into error, if he suppose that it results - ora relaxation of the ligature. The pulsation is rather a proof that the * 18 ™11 applied, and that the blood again passes into the aneu- I smal sac by the collateral branches. It is of uncertain duration, and ii iere is generally no fear of enlargement of the sac, which slowly lessens I must, however, be remembered, after Hunter’s operation, in aneurysm the bend of the arm, upon the back and palm of the hand, and foot at in consequence of the numerous anastomoses the blood can ao-ain dis- “d t ie aneurysmal sac (6). The pulsation which recurs in an aneu- smal sac, after Hunter s operation, depends either on the flowing' of the a ood into that part of the artery between the seat of ligature and the sac ! tW tHf tn° iuterf - branches which open into the sac, or on the re»Urgi’ tion of the blood into the sac from the artery below it (1). ° 8 'edemeier (c) has communicated a case, in which after tvimr tul f , ; ffita „”eSr,he sac bnrst ia the ham' “d I-*- -b. felt in the ■ge size and direct communication of t^wuSS 3"* Cause’ ^the : ligature,) but it very rarely continues” 1 branches with the artery below just stated, for I do not recollect to have^noticed it a> ° ^ tlllnkthls 80 common is a of iCStTS?; wbiCV,ied ?e f™> »>«ry on Sept. 12 , S40 "m in°.tSftisfy myself that it really Listed blithe dOriM*” the operation, but I P sate feebly, but distinctly, for about two months; ° ^ A^ter ^is, it continued srs- ’ ™rrP,,FM“n,“rB'bl'ra'“'-"»p“-, • W,“““ 1 » ,on,R™£-„ 0. «. »— Heitk.,