376 NARROWING OF TIIE VAGINA 1709. If the closure be more or less deep in the canal of the vagiw\ | its condition and extent must first be carefully ascertained by examini® tion by the vagina and rectum. After emptying the bladder and rcctu, f the oiled finger of the left hand is to be carried up to the closed pa> $j& placed upon its middle, and a narrow scalpel, guarded with plaster I within an inch of its tip, or a pharyngotome, or Osiander’s hyster tome (a) is to be introduced and thrust in the direction of the vagin a through the closed part. The aperture is to be enlarged, rather 1 pressure than by sawing with the knife, according to the situation, whet]* it can be done without danger of wounding the bladder or the rectutM The point of the left finger is then to be introduced into the openin • which is to be enlarged with a button-ended bistoury, to the extent and the direction where it can be done most safely, and seems most necessaryJ In complete closure of the vagina, without any symptoms of retained menstrual flu l the operation is contra-indicated, as the womb may be wanting, and the blind extremb* of the vagina may touch the peritonaeum.. Columbus (A), Bousquet (c), Meyer (i and Kleinkosck (e), have given cases of this kind. Stein (f) and Busch (g) oj rated on such cases, and opened the peritonaeum, in consequence of which the worn ? died. In a case of Oberteuffer’s (A), the woman did not indeed die, but the open. • tion was useless. In all these cases the women had not menstruated. 1710. When the canal of the vagina is only partially closed, a butto: ij ended bistoury is to be introduced by means of the left fore-finger, or . director, and the connexions divided to the proper extent, without wournJ ing the bladder or rectum. Membranous bands are best divided wb I blunt-ended scissors, which are introduced upon the left forefinger, closure of the vagina accompany pregnancy, the operation must be fin ; performed, when, the pains coming on the membranes present, which a be easily felt through the vagina or through the rectum (i). [My friend Dr. Locock informs me that he attended a lady who, in consequence previous difficult labour with tearing of the perinccum and vagina into the rectum, hi M as she recovered numerous bands formed across the vagina. She became again pre ,i nant, and great fear was entertained as to the result of the delivery. He allowed tlty labour to go on as usual, and as the child’s head descended, and the bands becau 1 stretched, he divided them carefully with a bistoury, and the case did well. _ A secot i pregnancy and delivery followed under similar circumstances. If no operation be pe formed, and the child’s head cannot descend, the womb will burst, and as m the ca related by Kennedy (A), a triangular flap of the mouth aud neck of that organ thrown down into the vagina. In another case, which occurred to Labat, one band hi ■ been divided, and whilst waiting for pains to force the other, the whole recto-vagm > septum gave way, and the rectum and vagina became one cavity, leaving, however, tl b) sphincter aid unhurt.—J. F. S.] 1711- If the vagina be only narrowed, it may be attempted to enlarge it gradually with bougies, sponge tent, relaxing injections, and the lik< If pregnancy occur during such narrowing, the vagina often yields durin that period, and during labour, to such extent, that although previously >i had not the width of a quill, yet the expulsion of the child is effected ('I In cases where this yielding does not follow, some sufficiently deep cut« (a) Neue Denkwiirdigkeiten fur Aerzte und Geburtslielfer, vol.i. p. ii. f.4. Getting. 1727. (b) De re anatomica, book xv. p. 495. (c) Journal de Medecine, vol. vi. p. 123. 1775. (ri) Schmdckek’s vermischte chlrurg. Schrift., vol. ii. p. 299. (e) Dissert, de Utero deficiente. Prag. 1777. ff) IIufeland’sJournal. May, 1319. in') Rust’s Magazin,vol.x. party. (A) Stark's neucs Archiv. vol. ii. p. 227. (i) Nakoi.k. Krfalirungen und Abh»ndb'nP ■ is dem Gebiete der Krankheiten des neiWic ‘si’lilucts. Mannheim, 1812, p. 334.—-vvn ' n.n, 13., Handbucli r.ur Frkenntnissund Hedur. •r Frauenzimmerkrankheiten. hranki., tr eond Edition, vol. i. p.216. . (A) Johnson’s Med.-Chir. Jour., vol. xxxi. p* 1 339. (I) Antoine: in IIist.de 1'Academia de»^c cl, 1712, p. 48.-Ot«.Anat.2.-To.«oN,ib'<l 48, p. 8.I.—Obs. Anat. 1.