G26 COMPARISON OF ence a matter of doubt, but proceeds at once to examine the bladder, and determines its presence; or by a skilful searching of every part of the viscus, ascertains that a stone does not exist. * * * The early symptoms of the disease are thus watched with more jealousy on the part of the Surgeon, and are not so scrupulously concealed by the patient. The advantages of an early knowledge of the existence of a stone, and of prompt mea- sures for its removal, are known to both. rI he result of this is, that patients applj for advice when the stone is small, the bladder uninjured by its presence, and the kidneys free from disease. In three out of four persons who apply for advice, for symptoms of calculus, the size of the stone and the conditions of the viscus render lithotrity an easy and safe operation. Within the last three or four years, I have marked the very early application that patients make for advice, and the small size of the stone when first dis- covered, compared with those of former years. In private practice, I have not ex- tracted, by either operation, a calculus larger than a good-sized mulberry, except in three cases, in one of which the stone was of unusually rapid formation, (p. 13-16.) “ The size of the calculus,” observes Key, “ forms of itself no objection to lithotrity. A large stone presents, however, several considerations for the Surgeon to weigh before he undertakes the operation. As the stone cannot be entirely crushed at one sitting, a patient with an irritable or unsound bladder, becomes involved in most serious danger by the operation being hastily adopted. A large stone broken up into many irregular fragments, all crowded by the contractions of the bladder against the irritable and in- flamed cervix, causes excessive efforts to void the urine, and even inflammation of the mucous surface. Under such circumstances, the repetition of the operation becomes impossible, or highly dangerous; and the patient has to struggle through the stages of inflammation, with a bladder irritated by the lesser fragments. But if the bladder be free from disease, and not very irritable, it will bear the number ot sittings required to break up a large stone, without much suffering to the patient, and with very little danger. The success of lithotrity, like that of most surgical operations, mainly depends on its subject. If the constitution be good, and the power of endurance great, difficul- ties of most unpromising nature may be overcome. We should therefore pay more re- gard to the general condition of the patient, and of his bladder, than to the size of the < stones; and inquire minutely into the several circumstances likely to have an influence i on the result of the operation. * * * I know of no limits to the size of a calculus re-1 movable by lithotrity but the power of the lithotrite. If a powerful instrument can be brought to embrace it, and the organ be healthy, the operation may, as far as my expe- rience goes, be attempted with propriety. , , . ., , “ The different ages of patients to be submitted to the lithotrite or the knife, are re- markably contrasted with one another. Whilst to youth and advanced age the latter is more suitable, the former is found generally better adapted to the middle period, tween puberty and the decline of life. We have seen, in speaking of lithotomy that persons whose sexual organs are completely developed, are more liable to the accidents attending the use of the knife than children, whose organs are not yet evolved ; or than the aged, whose irritability is on the wane. The full-grown healthy adult, on t e trary, presents all the conditions most favourable for crushing the calculus Ihe canal is sufficiently large to admit an instrument efficient from its size ; the prostate glan ^ usually healthy, and free from the enlargement of age ; thus rendering the neck ot tnc bladder a part so important in the operation, little exposed to the dangers of lnflam tion. When there is a normal prostate gland, the operator may manipulate his m> ment without risk of bruising, or otherwise injuring this most sensitive ot all t »e P concerned in the operation. The urethra of such patients being more free, the rag ments are expelled with less difficulty, and cause less pain in their expulsion, w 11C also materially assisted by a sound and vigorous bladder. At this age also, muani _ tion, should it supervene, is more easily controlled than in the aged subject, who cairn well bear depletion. The warm bath and free venesection, speedily arrest me in _ mation of the mucous membrane of the bladder ; but the old are soon depressed y diseased action, as well as by the measures required for its suppression. Inflammation, however, is less liable to occur in such, healthy subjects, where the parts are no chanically injured by the operation, and when the patient has been prepared by'J and other prudential measures. The aged subject, however, is not le® adapted t operation than the younger adults, if he be free from the common accidents of ^ enlarged prostate, accompanied with an irritable state of the bladder. If the Par!‘ ,... aged^are sound, the operation is especially successful in them; as there is less imffibd^ in the organs of generation, and less excitability of the general system. The urdhra also is usually larger, and if the neck of the bladder be free, it allows fragments of extm ordinal size , pas . * * * In the old subject, however, difficulties often pre-scut them