THE CiESAREAN OPERATION. 437 >7 1828. When the pelvis is so narrow that a child cannot be brought {into the world at all by the natural passages, or not alive, the delivery j L mst be effected by some other than the natural way, that is, by the Artificial opening of the belly and womb. ft 1829. The circumstances demanding the Caesarean operation are first, i -hen the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet of the pelvis is less than j£.vo and a half inches, and the child is alive ; second, when there is so i . reat narrowing of the pelvis, that the dismemberment of the child is tnpossible. I When it is not quite certain that the child is alive, perforation should be preferred to >e Caesarean operation ; as it should be also in misformed children. If the mother be rainst the operation, her voice must be attended to. In doubtful cases, for instance, hen the signs which declare for and against the life of the child are of equal value, f e choice of the operation is not to be left to her decision, if she resolve upon it iring the labour. [“ The difficulty of deciding upon the operation, according to the indications of the :ontinental practitioners, is,” observes Rigby, “ much more perplexing than ac- urding to that which is followed in this country. The question here is, can the lild, under any circumstances, be made to pass per vias naturales with safety to the other? The impossibility of effecting this object is the sole guide for our decision, ru using the operation as a means for preserving also the life of the child, we must not Sfc'ily feel certain that the child is alive, but that it is also capable of supporting life, •fore we can conscientiously undertake the operation upon such indications. This Kicertainty as to the life or death of the child greatly increases the difficulty of tciding. Under circumstances where there is reason to believe that, although the lid may be alive, it is, nevertheless, unable to prolong its existence for any time, ■d the pelvis so narrow that it can only be brought through the natural passage’ liecemeal, we are certainly not authorized in putting an adult and otherwise healthy f other into such imminent danger of her life, for the sake of a child which is too ,feak to support existence. Circumstances may, nevertheless, occur, where the I *ms is s? narrow that the child cannot be brought even piecemeal through the natural : ssage; in this case, even if the child be dead, the operation becomes unavoidable ii 'ader the above-mentioned circumstances, it is the duty of the Surgeon to perform the ! eration; and he can do it with the more confidence, from the knowledge of many ses upon record, where it has succeeded, even under very unfavourable circum- ices, and where it has been performed very awkwardly; moreover, it seems highly obable, that the unfavourable results of this operation cannot often be attributed to the meration itself, but to other circumstances. Not, unfrequently, the uterus has been In bruised, irritated and injured, by the violent and repeated attempts to deliver bv I ?'D£ °.r,the forceps, and the patient so exhausted, and brought into such a spasmodic « teverish state, by the fruitless pains and vehement efforts, together with the anxiety *r res . sness which must occur under such circumstances, that it is impossible for operation to prove successful.” (pp. ] 54, 55.)] r 18^- In a pregnant woman just dead, the Caesarean operation should ' informed, if pregnancy be so far advanced, that the child is capable n hving, if the delivery be not possible by the natural passages, and the CS actu"llV, not apparently, dead (a) ; in which case the operation ust be undertaken as quickly as possible. I £sv th<\actual death of t}»e mother being put, beyond all doubt, I ongly ilStak'n^*5? operation, under these circumstances, cannot be too itance ;!PSd' A , ?• fnend’ on whose veracity 1 can rely, told me of an I louring underP f er m the country, presuming that a pregnant woman % eratioif Wa? de?d’ f’egan the Performance of the Ctesarean v i Cn died P He 1 TmCh a™USmg from,her deathlike state, she screamed out, 1 > 1831 Ti °St practice’ and was obliged to leave the place.—J. F. S.J hund it f a® Caesarear> operation, partly on account of the very large | a nflicts) partly on account of the symptoms which follow after, ■ ost exceedingly dangerous operation. The number of patients (a) Kioaitdeaux; in Journal dea Syavuns, 1749.