526 URINARY STONE, these stones there be not this irregular surface, the cause seems to be th U simultaneous existence of several stones, and their consequent friction («) j | Marcet’s hempseed stones are smooth, contain oxalate of lime (2), am t| are pale coloured. Stones consisting of the earthy phosphates have a white or grayish-whit a colour, are friable, and brittle, and only in rare cases hard and compact J and when broken they present a crystalline and more or less transparent .4 structure. The stone consisting of phosphate of lime has mostly a pale-brown >1 colour, is smooth as if polished ; its structure consists of regular plates iS which are striped perpendicularly to their surface; it is rare, and seldon: 4 attains moderate size (b). The stone, consisting of a mixture of phosphate of lime and phosphatv'iM of ammonia and magnesia { fusible stone) is usually white and very friable It resembles a lump of chalk, and leaves a whitish stain on the fingers - it is in general not laminated, but sometimes separates into layers, the interspaces of which are often filled with glittering crystals. Those which have no layers often attain considerable size. The cystic oxide stones are usually crystallized throughout, yellowish, i semi-transparent, iridescent; if examined with a lens, an irregular group- ing of granules is observed, which, in large stones, are separated by inter- I spaces ; this, according to Civiaee, seems to prove that the cystin is no( deposited on its nucleus in a fluid form, and this appears from the struc- ture of the stone, which, at least in its pure state, is wrinkled like shagreen. These stones are usually small, and do not exceed the middle d size. Civiale has, however seen three stones of this sort of considerable J size (3). When cystic oxide is combined with other substances, for in- stance, with earthy substances, the stones appear to be so modified by the nature of their combination and the proportions of their constitu- ents, that there is great uncertainty about the nature of the stone. Stones of xanthic oxide have a pale-brown, smooth, glossy, in part i whitish, soft and earthy surface ; when broken they have a brown flesh- i colour. They are made up of concentric and easily separable layers, and have not any crystalline or fibrous structure. By rubbing they become smooth, with a wax-like gloss, and have nearly the same hardness as stones: i of uric acid. Those stones which contain carbonate of lime are of a chalky colour, hard, and friable. Smith (c) has described stones of this kind, which closely resemble mulberry stones. Urinary stones sometimes smell of urine; in sawing them through some have a peculiar animal odour, resembling sawn bone or musk ; many have no smell at all; a few have a distinct and well-marked flavour. '1 heir size is very various ; it appears, however, in some degree relative to their composition. Their shape depends on the place in which they are found, and partly on their number (4). [(1) Several mulberry stones have a lindens of uric acid. j (2) Hempseed calculi consist either of oxalate or of urate of lime, either pure or mixed with urate of ammonia. . . . ,f (3) A cystic oxide stone found in the Museum of St. Eartholcmew s Hospital, nan (a) Mabtbkb, Sur <les Concretions d’Oxnlnte tin Clioux, qui ne sont pas murales; in Annales de Cliimie etde Physique, vol. vi. p. 220. (/)) See p«r. 1988 (note.) (c) Medico-Chinirg. Trans., vol. xi. P-