73 STRANGULATED FEMORAL RUPTURE. IK Lc Dctuttren cuts obliquely from below upwards along the edge of the outer inguinal ligament, in the direction by which the spermatic cord descends. (*•) For the purpose of more surely preventing the injury of the epi- gastric or obturator artery, Arnaud’s hook should be introduced under the inguinal ligament, so as to draw it obliquely up towards the navel, whilst the power of the pull should be kept up by the finger introduced beneath Poupart’s ligament, and the intestine pressed back. If the ino-uinal ligament be not thereby sufficiently stretched, some slight cuts, only°a line deep, must be made in its edge, and then it must be raised up with Arnaud s hook (Schreger.) In the same way Le Blanc’s dilator is to be used. _ Also by introducing the forefinger between the inner surface of the hernial sac and the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, the latter may be stretched, or even torn (Rust and others) (a). J ruptureUseeC°UIlt °f ^ 111111161,0118 modes of proceeding in the operation for femoral Schreger, Grundriss der chirurgischen Operationen, vol. i. p. 254. Third Edit. 1224. The danger, which, in the above-described course of the obtu- rator and epigastric arteries, is run from the practice a and b, on account i i lTVl °f these vessels’ tIie favouring of the recurrence of a rupture by the bloodkss expansion, according to c, further, the circumstance that the parts suffer considerable bruising, and the mere extension in many Hesselb achf0r re 7T-V? 0f the Stran^uIation’ have decided l ® to thTe Practlc,e (vvhlch 111 a manner resembles the earlier p ctice of Bell, Else, and others) of seizing the exposed lower edo-e of the inguinal ligament with the forceps, and cutting into it layerwise, from below upwards two lines deep, and to introduce the forefinger between le intestine and the seat of strangulation. If the cut be insufficient it must be lengthened through the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique abdominal muscle above the spermatic cord, which is raised by an assent, and the inner inguinal ligament should be cut into hi the same ti,T!lls.Practice; although safer, on account of the deep situation of difficulty™ Thnf’ especially ln stout persons, is accompanied with great ! proposed by Scarpa and Dupuytren seems preferable to all other if attention be paid to the following circumstances he noim S ftg «SE its** the Si„bUsf£eSed1^ WiU‘ ^ .»% vor° demT&leb-e- d;e .V°raii«c (ler Ausdeh. Ma8 <lie sicherste Art tier iii. p. 227. W U ESSE I. BACH, A Bruchschmttea in der Leiste. burg, 1819. .00 Scakpa, above died.- cited, "" ~~ Bamberg und Wiirz- cited r, mi ' ti.V v“—-Banoenbkck, above rcceua 5e la ChRurgi™ 62,^iSt°lre <les 1>ro=K's