TAVIGNOT’S AND OTHER METHODS. 228 thrusting back of the coats upwards towards the heart is difficult of pc, formance and insufficient. The forceps destined for the thrusting bac are supported sometimes by the point, sometimes by the opposite end, o the fixed forceps, and so acting alternately and like a lever, they thru back the internal coats, first on the one, then on the other side, by whit all tearing of the artery is prevented. When the operation is thus con pleted, the wound is to be closed, and the cure attempted by quick unioi Amussat has published numerous experiments on brutes, and the operatic also on man, with successful result. According to Tavignot’s plan (a), the two ends, laid together, of ad thread are to be passed through the eye of one small and one large curv needle, and the loop allowed to hang loosely. The smaller needle is to carried over the artery, the larger one is to take a directly opposite dirt tion to it, is to pass through the hole made by the former, away under t- artery, and carried out again at the same hole. From the opening . each needle-track the loop of one and the two ends of the other thre hang down ; the one is then pushed through the other ; another colour thin silk thread is passed through each of the loops (so that the loopsm; when needful, be again loosened) ; the two ends are then pulled, by whi the loops are drawn together. The ends are fastened to a horseshoe-li instrument. On examination of arteries which have been subjected to this operation, the foil ing changes are found. At the part where the forceps next the heart was app; the external coat only remained entire; then followed a ring about a line broad, e sisting of all the coats of the artery; beneath this again, the internal coats were divii and thrust back under the cellular coat, to the extent of two or more lines. At this; which externally felt hard, the area of the artery was considerably diminished by thrust back and inverted coats, and subsequently still more so by the ensi swelling and effusion, whereby the complete obliteration was effected. The various remedies which have been proposed for the treatment of aneurysm- which have been made use of, are still to be mentioned in historical review. _ 1. Cutting into and plugging the aneurysm. 2. Suture of arterial wounds, with ane and thread wound round it. Lambert effected obliteration of the artery by this p tice in man, and Amussat in brutes. 3. Application of a ligature with a running I for the purpose of gradually compressing the vessel. (Dubois, Lakrey.) 4. Acup ture ; E. Home (b) thrust a needle into an iliac aneurysm, heated it with the flame , spirit lamp, and allowed it to remain twenty or thirty minutes. The soft and, non standing its previous tying, still pulsatory swelling, gradually became harder, la pulsation, and the needle exhibited hardened clot every time it was drawn out. peau (c) proposes the introduction of a needle into the artery when laid bare, in w it is to remain for at least four days. One needle is sufficient for an artery as large feather ; two or three are necessary for larger arteries. The same result is ettecte means of a thread carried round the artery, and tied on a little pad. Accord*I Phillips (d), the thrusting in of several needles into the aneurysmal sac, or the n I duction of a silver thread; in sixty hours inflammation ensued, after which the d shrunk as in Hunter’s operation. Pravaz has proposed to use galvanism, with ne thrust into the sac, in order to excite more quickly the coagulation of the blood, l d’Etiolles (e) applied the extremities of two compressors, at the distance of some a from each other, for the purpose of coagulating the blood in the interspace bet them- he also applied ice on the part, and used acupuncture and galvanism. 5. terization with moxas (Laurey). G. The introduction of mechanical plugs of wa> so on into the arteries, and the compression of the ends of the artery or ligatures. )• introduction of threads into the artery (Jameson, Worms, Amussat.) «-• modes of compressing the artery between the rounded branches of forceps, and t) below this part, according to Amussat’s experiments on brutes. fa') De la Liirature sous-ctitance des A rtf res; Medical, 13-.0. Feb. 1842. in Examinateur ^b) 1’liil. Trans., 1826. (c) Revue Medicale, Jan. 1831. p. 1ST. cine operatoire. Nouv. Edit., vol. ii-P**' (rf) ^London Mod. (»ax., vol. xxvi. p. (, ) Lancctte Francaise, March, 1835. 134.