CYSTIC OXIDE GRAVEL, TREATMENT OF. 538 Lining with oxygen in the body, give rise to oxalic acid; still the oxygen has evidently.1J a much stronger affinity for the non-nitrogenous than for the nitrogenous substances in , the body, and thus the process of oxydation is far more frequently incomplete in the a latter than in the former; so that we should expect oxalic acid generally to arise from i the insufficient oxidation of the uric acid, and much more rarely from sugar; and the 1 alternation of this substance with uric acid in calculi, and the ease with which it is s formed from uric acid, leads to the belief that this is the usual origin of oxalic acid.; i The free oxalic acid passing off by the kidneys, meeting with the phosphate of lime, ‘ 1 which is secreted both by them and by the mucous membrane of the urinary passages,-® decomposes it, and oxalate of lime is the result. The same thing happens when oxalic acid is taken, as such, in the food; if free, like tartaric acid, it passes off at the kidneys, , a and combines with the lime which it afterwards meets with. If taken in combiiiation-ta with alkalies, like tartaric acid, it would probably be decomposed. The causes, then,u« of this disease are in most cases similar to the causes of the uric acid diathesis; both: J diseases may be referred to insufficient oxidation, and the treatment must consequently s be the same in both.” (p. 71-3.) “ It is highly probable that an excess of lime in the system may induce the formation , of oxalic acid, but some lime is necessary for the bones and the membranes, and it is taken into the system in all solid and liquid food. Now, though it is impossible to I obtain food absolutely free from it, and thus to hinder all formation of fresh oxalate of i) lime, still by rendering it as free as possible, the rapid increase of a calculus may beg prevented. Perhaps of all substances, water is the easiest to render pure, and it is • that which usually contains most lime. On this account, in the oxalic acid diathesis, h distilled water should always be used in everything for which common water is etn- ployed in the state of health. When distilled water cannot be obtained rain water ( would be the best substitute; and when this is not to be had, then that which has been j purified as already mentioned. * * * This treatment is merely palliative, and the curative treatment must be directed to the oxalic acid and not to the lime.” (p. 74.) (3) “ The principles of treatment in both forms of the phosphatic deposit are,” says i Prout, “ the same, and differ only in degree. The particular indications of cure ' seem to be to diminish the unnatural irritability of the system, and to restore the state: of the general health, and particularly of the urinary organs, by tonics, and other appropriate remedies. In severe affections, especially of the amorphous class, opium, as far as my experience has hitherto extended, is the only remedy that can be employed with much advantage to fulfil the first indication. This must be given in large and repeated doses, such as from gr. i. to gr. v., or more, two or three times a day. Under this plan the more distressing symptoms will commonly be speedily relieved; and now, in conjunction with opium, (in more moderate doses if the state of the disease a will permit,) the mineral acids, cinchona, uva ursi, different preparations of iron and other tonics may be had recourse to; or if the mineral acid should disagree, the citric acid may be taken instead. There may be also applied to the region of the loins, - a large pitch, soap, or galbanum plaster, which frequently seems to afford considerable relief to the distressing pain there felt; or if the symptoms are unusually severe, and s connected with manifest local injury, setons, or issues, may be instituted in the back. * * * The bowels are most frequently constipated; but purgatives of the more active class must be given with caution. Saline purgatives, more especially those containing a vegetable acid, as the Rochelle salts, the Seidlitz powders, &c., must be avoided, and recourse had to small doses of castor oil or laxative injections. Mercury, in all its forms, and particularly when pushed so far as to produce its specific effects on the - constitution, seems capable of doing a great deal of mischief, when the "’I are concerned, more especially in the severer forms of the affection; and if fro®® other causes it be judged proper or necessary, as the least of two evils, to administer this remedy, its exhibition must be managed with caution, and its effects closely watched. Perhaps the best mode of exhibiting it in such cases is to combine it with opium, or with a purgative, in some instances. 1 cannot help thinking, however, that in very severe forms of the affection, its use had better be omitted altogether, till the more distressing symptoms have somewhat yielded, and the patient has <• recovered a little strength. Alkaline remedies of every description must be most carefully avoided, their use, in every point of view, being most mischievous, vh«i the phosphates are concerned. Indeed, all remedies that act as diuretics, should, * in general, be shunned, and the patient should be prohibited from drinking too much. With respect to drinks in general, they should be of a soothing demulcen character, and prepared with distilled or the softest water that can be procured, as hard waters are literally poison in this form of disease. In less severe cases, ,