STONE IN THE KIDNEYS. 539 & where the source of irritation is chiefly confined to the urinary organs, and where the constitution is sound, and the strength not remarkably reduced, similar means may be had recourse to: though opium, to the above extent, is seldom necessary or proper. Iu such cases, the liyosct/amus is an excellent remedy, especially when combined with the extract of uvu ursi; and more or less, according to circumstances, of the extr. opii; the same is true of the alcliemilla arvensis, a strong infusion of which taken frequently, sometimes gives great relief. In such cases, also, occasional purgatives, especially of the milder class, may be employed with safety and advantage, (p. 182-86.) “ The diet in severe cases should be of the mildest and most nutritious kind, and taken in very moderate quantities at a time. From what I have seen I am certainly inclined to advise an animal diet in preference to an acescent vegetable diet, commonly recommended; but I wish it to be understood that no positive directions are given on this point; * * * for I am disposed to believe, that in all instances, that diet is most proper for a patient, which agrees best with him, and which, in many instances can be only known by actual trial; I may give it, however, as my opinion, that all watery diet, as soups, &c., should be taken very moderately. If the patient has been accus- tomed to wine, the Ehine or some of the lighter varieties of French wines will be T. preferable. Cider and perry may be also taken, if they do not disagree. I wish it to i be understood, however, that the use of these is not particularly recommended. But these and everything else that can be done for a patient in this state, are of very little ■use, if the mind, cannot be set at rest. The influence of mental anxiety is really it astonishing in this disease ; and absence from care, the exhilarating air of the country and such exercises as are consistent with the patient’s condition, will, perhaps, more than ’ any thing else> contribute to the cure, particularly in the slighter cases, and when the 8 cause is not local injury.” (pp. 186, 87.) Jones observes that, in the palliative treat- i meut of these complaints, “ the first object must be to cause the phosphates to be retained |< m solution: this is effected by rendering the urine acid, which is most easily done by * any vegetable acid, as tartaric, citric, acetic acids. It was found by the experiments of m oehler, on men and dogs, that if any of these acids are taken in a free state, that is I not in combination with an alkali, they pass through the blood unchanged, and appear mil, as acids in the urine. V\ hy they should not be oxidized, as they are when in combina- Z T Tf i?kalles’ 15 at pyr®nt unknown. * * * The dose of these acids should f b f,r^Ua , y lncreased tdl the urine becomes again acid to test paper, when great care I tmust be taken not to render it so much so as to cause precipitation of uric acid * * * * S als° been found, by experiment (a), that the strong mineral acids possess no I render the urine acid; probably their strong affinity for the soda in the blood *--Lrm,i,wiVe lts,comb,nat*on with the albumen; and thereby salts of soda would be t , . n!'d’ and the acids would pass off by the kidneys as neutral salts. * * * Our .chief attention must be directed to the removal, if possible, of the cause of the u Vconstltutes the curative treatment; this may be most beneficially & ned with palliative measures. If the alkalescence arises from the altered mucus Saturn" tbUtfi^ an inflamed bladder, when the inflammation is cured, the acidity will * deP0Slt. ceas<y If the irritation of a stone causes the secretion of mucus or ? cmPt>’11nS of ,the bladder, the stone must be removed. If the alkalescence oceeds from weakness, it is only by restoring the general health that the urine-arm |«>ennanently regain its natural condition ; though fora" andfor a time onlv™ I:vi1 “ay be hindered by the use of vegetable acids.” (I fifilsB °nly’ “UCh II.—OF STONE IN THE KIDNEYS. (Calculus lienalis, Lat.; Niereustein, Germ.; Calcul Iiifnal, Fr ) m,U" « ““1“ •” >» N'P'-rotomie; i„ Mom. a. fAead. llS"*' U'ber dlC Kr“k'»'“ *» der iibrigen Harnorgane. Leipaig, 1 Combaire, J. N„ Disserts t. sur fExtirpation des Reins. Paris, 1804 4,o I I""'': °“ l!‘“' C”'“U i >» Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 211-18. r' ilfe sl,ai ' '7, ani?el™ «t the kidney, stones may be formed of nerent shape and nature, singly, crowded together, or as one very large 00 Berzelius’s Handbook, p. 4G7.