419 FROM IMPREGNATED WOMB, ETC. Jot mi P,0f i 3-i'ie forefinger of the left hand into the rectum, so as to fix the stone and prevent it slip- Ljngor being pushed back into the bladder, in the attempt to seize it: tor should that x appen, it will be necessary at once to perform the usual operation for stone, t (2) If the cut be made in the perinceum, no catheter should be left in, but the wound h lowed to heal, as after the operation for the stone. But if the urethra be opened before ie scrotum, and specially if near to it, a catheter must be left in, to prevent the escape of i tie urine into the cellular tissue.—J. F. S.] 1803. In retention from the pressure of the impregnated womb, or other iscera, the palliative treatment consists in introducing the catheter: . the former case the ischury ceases after delivery; in the latter the tv.iardening of the viscera must be got rid of, as well as other swellings Ij-hich compress the urethra. Retention from retroversion of the womb &tas been already considered (par. 1308.) pj [I once operated for retention of urine in a case which, after death, was found to epend on a large cyst, containing an acephalous hydatid, which occupied the whole > , ivity of the pelvis, and lying between the bladder and the rectum, compressed the n .inner between itself and the pubes, and as the bladder filled, it rose high above the V rim of the pelvis, in consequence of which, even after cutting into the perinceum, the m 'essure was so complete that the urine would not escape, except on the introduction -ft a very long catheter, which was continually displaced by the contraction of the sp ladder into the compressed part, into which no urine descended, and was only :placed with the greatest difficulty. The man died on the sixth day of constitutional ritation. Besides this cyst above mentioned, which contained 44 ounces of colourless aid enclosed in the hydatid, there was another, about the size of a goose’s egg, at the aver part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, with thick walls, and an eschar upon , where it had probably, at some time or other, burst. The bladder was empty 9§ “tween the lower and fore part of the large cyst and the arch of the pubes; and ?tween the cyst and the back of the fundus of the bladder were two or three small ?sts of the size of small nuts, and upon the fore part of the fundus another as big ; a swan’s egg. All the cysts contained each an hydatid, except that on the ■ctum, on which there were several.—J. F. S.] 1804. Growths in the bladder, especially about its neck, are causes of chury, and the diagnosis is always uncertain. Sometimes there is only ne growth of much size, sometimes several: some have a thin stem, and hers a broad base. The use of the catheter is the only palliative. Such inrowths when discovered in the operation for the stone, have been torn t ;way with the forceps (a). I 1805. Swellings of the prostate gland may arise in various ways, and -i- jie passage of the urine become difficult, or quite impossible. The swelling •ay depend on inflammation, varicosity of the vessels, hardening, and one. 1806. Inflammation of the prostate gland may be consequence of • '(morrhcea, of external violence, and the like; in general, it developes • l self quickly. The patient has a sense of weight and burning in the Merinceuni and anus, a throbbing pain, the seat of which he refers to the > /eck of the bladder. The pain increases on pressure of the perinceum, :-nd specially on going to stool: the patient has difficulty and frequent • FPDg to void Jus urine: the swelling of the prostate is felt on introducing one finger into the rectum. In proportion to the degree of inflammation, fccur inflammatory symptoms and so on. If the inflammation do not ^Mspme, it may pass on to suppuration. Under these circumstances, after r.,le ^flammatory symptoms have gone over eight days, a throbbing pain is dt, increased fever towards evening, shiverings, and symptoms of reten- "on of urine, which subside a little, and increase afresh. The suppuration lre y appears to be seated in the proper substance of the gland, but rather («) Desaui.t; above cited, p. 175. 2 e 2