350 TREATMENT OF to its place. By this easy and almost painless handling, Walthe almost always effects his purpose; compression of the glans in doin this is unnecessary, but if this treatment be ineffectual, the operation required. m) The reduction of paraphimosis in this, which is the best way, is often excee <J inely difficult, and always excessively painful, so that frequently a strong-minded pers< I will scream like a child from the pain. I have, however, scarcely ever known it fail, at I hardly remember it needful to perform any operation with the knife. It requires, howevt * great patience and perseverance, often for the space of half an hour, at the very least, and , have often succeeded when the prepuce had been everted six or eight days, and it mig A have been supposed that the adhesive inflammation would have prevented the replac i ment of the skin. Although the diminution of the bulk of the plans, by pressing t, I blood as completely as possible out of it, is a very important part of the proceeding, j 3 squeezing out the fluid effused in the prepuce is no less so; and unless both be dona there is great hindrance to the replacement of the skin. I, therefore, always fir* squeeze gently, but steadily, for a few minutes, the prepuce, till it become somewh flaccid and then firmly press the whole glans with the thumbs of both hands, whilst t; 1 two forefingers of each hand grasp the penis behind the everted prepuce, like a colk 1 and draw it forwards, whilst the thumbs empty and thrust back the glans. Or if I do n • so suceeed, I grasp the whole penis with the left hand, making the thumb and for-j finger a collar behind the everted prepuce, which thus rests against it, whilst, with ti thumb and fingers of the other hand, the glans is emptied, and thrust within the co stricted ring by pushing first one part and then another of the corona glandis till it g beneath the constricting band ; and this done, the rest soon follows. Immediately th I the least bit of the corona has been thus got in, that next it must be poked in (do bettn expression than this can be used) with the finger end, and so on the next, till the greater pf has been thus returned, and the reduction is speedily completed. It must, however, remembered, that directly the return has commenced, the poking must be contino. without intermission, as, otherwise, the whole proceeding will have to be repeated as, - the least cessation, the glans again fills and protrudes. If the everted prepuce do d relax by pressure, the constriction being so great that the effused serum cannot be d'g versed easily upon the body of the penis, it will be found very convenient to make a ft punctures through the skin, by which the squeezing presses out the fluid, and then t prepuce is rendered flaccid. It is always advisable to try this mode of proceeding even Dart of the prepuce should have become gangrenous, as this is often merely superficial a: the replacement puts a stop to its progress. After the reduction, it is well for some bon to wrap the pejus up in linen, and keep it constantly wet with co d water, for the pmpc of preventing the disposition to erection, and re-protrusion of the glans, but after th time a warm poultice will be most agreeable to the patients feelings, and most fevm able to the dispersion of the inflammation. The soreness, however, will ™°ub« tinue for many days, proportionate to the severity of the constriction and its; durat.o No attempt at retraction of the prepuce, to see what is going on inside, should be ma for several days, or the mischief will probably recur. J. r. o.J 1668. The operation for paraphimosis is best conducted in the folio' ing manner. A little fold of the outer skin of the penis, just behind tl constriction, is to be raised and cut through ; into this opening a sma director, curved at its tip, is to be introduced, and thrust into the cellul tissue beneath the constriction, forwards, till it can be felt on the otli side, and then upon it the constricting skin is to be cut through. Am this operation the prepuce cannot generally be drawn over the glans, cause it is too much swollen, and attempts to bring it. forward are us less and dangerous; but it returns gradually when the inflammation ai hard swelling of the prepuce diminish. If the return of the prepuce impossible, on account of ccdematous swelling, a few little cuts may made, and its contents squeezed out. The longitudinal cut soon becom transverse. In the mode above mentioned, the operation for paraphimosis from that already described {par. 1658) for phimosis, namely, the differs, in no respe division of the ap* I