792 TUMOURS IN THE BREAST Second. “ The breast was, in this case, enlarged, and, in the greater part, hardened, 1 by the effusion of fibrin, (coagulable lymph,) in lobes, into the cellular tissue; but, in several parts, it contained bags of serum, and formed fluctuating cysts of various sizes. In each of these cells there hung a cluster of swellings, like polypi, supported j by a' small stalk; and the little pendulous projections appeared to float in the fluid which had been produced around them, in the different cysts. Many hydatids were found in a detached state, both in the fluid within the bags, and in the solid effusion in •, the breast- and taking the whole tumour, vast numbers of them had been formed in it. Their size varied, but the largest did not much exceed that of a barleycorn, the figure-i of which they assumed. In general they were of an oval form, or, I ought to say,; oviform as they were larger at one end than the other. When opened, they were: found to be composed of numerous lamella, like the crystalline humour of the eye, or like the layers in the onion, which could be readily peeled from each other, (p. 40 ) “ It is doubtful if these structures are not of the nature of globular hydatids, and which have perished from the pressure of solid matter with which they are ^surrounded; or, r whether they are productions or secretions of the arteries of the part. (p. 41.) they are rare, and extirpation is the only remedy. ...... . . ., Third “ The globular hydatid is contained in a cyst formed in the breast, by the adhesive process; for wherever it is deposited, it excites irritation, and becomes sur- • rounded and encased by an effusion of fibrin which is highly vascular; and its internal and secreting surface is directly applied to that of the hydatid, and a slight moisture exists between them, they having no vascular connexion. In the breast 1 have only seen them exist singly, but, in other parts of the body, great numbers are ■ found It is a semi-diaphanous bag filled by a clear water, and it is uniformly smcwth on its external surface. It has no opening or inlet, so that it must derive its nourish- ment by absorption from its external surface. It is composed of two coats; the external is of considerable density, and if any opaque body be placed behind it, it has the shining appearance of mother of pearl, and reflects the rays of light from its surface. It pos- sesses a considerable share of elasticity, and rolls itself up when it is broken Tto external layer is lined by a very delicate internal membrane which appears to be its uterus ■ for, from its interior, a multitude of small hydatids grow, which, at first, adhere to the membrane, but afterwards become detached, from its falling mtothe fluid which the hydatid contains. If, therefore, the fluid-contents of the hjdatidbe collected ^ a glass, an immense number of small hydatids will be discovered floating in them * * * lam induced to believe them to be distinct animals: first, because they have an existence and growth of their own, having no vascular connexion wuhthe nart in which they are found, but being only encased and surrounded by a vascular and secreting cyst -secondly, because they have the power of producing upon their.nero secreting cysi, J> # * ^ wheu one 0f these hydatids is produced in the breast an inflammation is excited by it, and a wall of fibrin surrounds rtjit ** hard and from the small size of the hydatid, a fluctuation cannot be discovered. as tSe hydatid grow^ although the quantity of solid matter incases, yet as the tod in the hydatid becomes more abundant, a fluctuation in the centre of the_ . be ultimately perceived. Sometimes, when the hydatid has ronsiderabW enlarged, produces a suppurative inflammation; and when the matter is discharged, 7 the lancet, or by ulceration, the hydatid escapes at the °Pe”1°f=- \P- ‘ ' ^inds of [Bbodi* (a) appears to me to have described Astley Coopeb^ “With hydatid tumours under the name of Serocystic Tumour of the Feme j..mphatic Cooper, he agrees that “ it does not contaminate either the glands ; it is not complicated with any correspondent disease of the «^ ^ experience which 1 have had justifies the conclusion, that if cure be takerit1 - tion of the breast be allowed to remain, we need not be apprehensive of jt (p 154.) It is undoubtedly not malignant in the proper acceptation onhe^ h; an(i may go on to inflammation and ulceration, and the ulcer may sP™*^“'L t0 £v that bleedf but it does not contaminate the constitution. Still I a,"fot. Prtp“rsumc a malig- it may not, under certain circumstances, and in peculiar const in tions nant character; this being no more than may happen to almost any morbid gr ^ The treatment consists in cutting into and cleaning the cyst, or in the nitroducti a This’latter form only seems to admit of being held as a pecMiar of^ise^^ the8others as well as in scirrhous degeneration, the formation of larger and i 1 < f v« to.-* ti i 'i-' • in (n) Lectures illustrative of various subjects in Pathology and Surgery.