447 BLOOD SWELLINGS ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. ided curved strong bistoury at the lower edge of the pubic symphysis, , id thrustino- it along the hind surface, divides the symphysis from within v wtwards. Any bleeding must be stanched by pressure or ligature. If the symphysis be ossified, a little straight button-ended thin saw is to be applied on L. Upper edge, and division made with some short strokes, during which the assistant raws the soft parts as much aside as possible. 1848. The share-bones now in general separate from each other, which *ie assistants holding the thighs, allow to take place but very slowly, and ie labour proceeds by the natural powers, or is completed by artificial d. If the bones do not part from each other, the thighs must be slowly •parated, till the space between the divided bones has acquired two, two ; id a half, to three inches extent. 1849. After delivery, the bones are to be brought together, as closely s possible, in doing which special caution must be had that no soft parts ■i. Is between them. The wound is united with sticking plaster, covered with i nt and a compress, and the pelvis supported by a close-fitting girdle : iplied around it. 1850. The after-treatment is specially directed by the ensuing symptoms r/ f inflammation. If the bladder or urethra be wounded in this operation, catheter must be introduced. If suppuration, fistulous sores, caries, or ■ icrosis occur, their treatment must be according to the usual rules, r: aflammation of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, consequent on the extension ; id tearing it has suffered, requires antiphlogistic treatment. If collec- ons of pus form, they should be opened early. An imperfect union of ie share-bones, by which lameness or halting is produced, renders the i mtinued application of a firmly-enclosing girdle, perfect rest and the use f strengthening baths necessary. B.—COLLECTION OF NATURAL FLUIDS EXTERNAL TO THEIR PROPER CAVITIES AND RECEPTACLES. I—OF THE BLOOD SWELLINGS ON THE HEADS OF NEWLY-BORN CHILDREN. Leyret, in Journal de Medecine, vol. xxxvii. p. 410. 1772. Michaelis; in Lodebs’ Journal fiir die Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 657. Naegele, Erfahrungen und Abhandlungen, u. s. w. p. 245. Klein, Bemerkungen fiber die bisher angenommenen Folgen des Sturzes der Kinder if den Boden bei schnellen Geburten, p. 20. Stuttgart, 1817. Valletta, J. S., Exercitationes pathologic®, cap. x. art. 1, De Ahscessu capitis san- “ne,p. 123. Mediol., 1820. Zeller, C., Pr®sid. Naegele, Comment, de Cephalacmatomate seu sanguineo cranii more recens natorum. Heide, 1822. HoereC. F., De Tumore Cranii recens-natorum sanguineo et extemo et interno, an- ■xis observationibus de cranii impressionibus et fissures. Berol., 1824. 4to.; with two es, in von Siebold’s Journal fiir Geburtshiilfe, Frauenzimmer und Kinderkrank- 81 ten, vol. v. p. 219. Scbiemann, J. F., Dissert, de Tumore Cranii recens-natorum sanguineo. Jen®, 1832. ignk, Memoire sur les Cephal®matomes; in Journ. Hebdom., vol. xii. p. 46. 1833. iitsLTE?oEK(i’ D’ssert. de Cephalmmatomate seu Tumore Cranii recens-natorum. 0™ng., 1833. 8vo. Bartsch, Dissert, de Cephal®matomate recens-natorum. Rostochii, 1833. nennd,i,N°8’ Observations on Sanguineous Tumours of the Head, which form spon- fineua N,^sometimes denominated “ Ceplial®matoma,” and “ Abscessus Capitis San- ">eus Neonatorum;” in North American Archives. July, 1835.