486 DROPSY OF THE OVARY; DIAGNOSIS; dressings may be replaced, and at the same time rubbing in volatile oin fj ments, spirituous fluids, or diluted spirit of ammonia. If there be i fj flammation of the diaphragm, or of the bowels, the patient must be treat) I antiphlogistically, with due attention to the state of the constitution. Tl 1 inflammation sometimes runs on very speedily to gangrene or to suppur fj tion. Colicky pains, if not inflammatory, require aromatic waters, wi .j the addition of some antispasmodic. If the water re-collect, the operati) % must be repeated, when fluctuation is again distinct. 1920. The following remarks must be made in reference to the differe i) parts at which tapping must be, under peculiar circumstances, (par. 1916 j performed. In puncturing through the navel, the trocar must be thru through its bladder-like distension and the enlarged navel-ring. Punctu \ through the scrotum must be performed in the same way as will 1 i directed for hydrocele. In puncturing through the vagina (a), after ha S ing forced the water down still more into the pelvis, by means of a bell band, the patient must be laid upon the edge of the bed, her thighs sept rated, the trocar and canula introduced into the vagina on the forefing of the left hand, and then thrust .into the most fluctuating part. J encysted dropsy, after the swelling has been made very tense by placii a folded towel upon the belly above and below it, the trocar must be i troduced at the most fluctuating part. If the water be contained in sever sacs, it should be attempted, after introducing the trocar into one them, withdrawing the stilette and drawing off the water, to press the oth sacs against the inlying canula, and with the trocar again introduced open them; or they should be severally punctured. [Among the variety of schemes proposed for the cure of dropsy in the belly, the i , genious one of Buchanan (b) is worth adverting to, though it was not successful. B | object was to ascertain the effect of a communication between the cavity of the pent iiceum and that of the bladder, for which purpose he employed a curved trocar, smiu , to that commonly used in retention of urine. He first introduced the canula throup the urethra, towards the upper and fore part of the bladder, pushing it as far as possit up, to keep the coats of the bladder stretched; and then passing the trocar through lip, IU ivccp I JL1VJ l-uaro m laav. r— o - , i without difficulty punctured the bladder, and, withdrawing it, the water flowed ireen tmuuut UAAUV.UAUJ gliuviuivw - 7 7 O' , The aperture closed within a fortnight, and the operation was again resorted to, with the same result. About a fortnight after, the operation was repeated, but with better success, and was therefore given up.] 1921. Of all dropsies, that of the ovary is the most common. TI | fluid is of different nature, colour, and consistence, is contained either 11 one or several sacs, the walls of which are of different thickness. In mo j cases, this dropsy is accompanied with other degenerations and diseasal productions of the ovary, hydatids, steatomatous, and sarcomatous change i bony, stony, and other concretions. J The diagnosis of dropsy of the ovary is often difficult when the dis «- sion is very great. The following circumstances may direct the pra' I titioner: the swelling begins at one particular spot, on one or others! cl at which there is often weight or painful feeling for a long time, o = j after the stoppage of the menses, often after suppression of discharge* ■ j the generative organs. With considerable distension, there is also o I observed an irregular condition of one or other side of the belly. > 111 1IIIC 1 VIUI1I civtv - • .. 1 some parts, a resisting hardness. The state of the general health is usua y disturbed than in ascites. The situation of the vaginal part of the uom the (a) Watson, Henry, A Caseof Ascites, in which le water was drawn oil' by tapping the Vagina ; (6) Glasgow Medical Jot in Medical Communications, vol. don, 17S4. i Journal, vol. i. p. 195. 1S28. i. p . Iff- bo