OP THE WOMB. 139 1305. If the long axis of the womb vary so much from that of the ■pelvis, that cutting it at a more or less acute angle, its base be directed towards the rump-bone and the mouth of the womb towards the share- bone, this displacement is called Retroversion of the Womb (Retroversio Uteri, Lat.; Riickwartsbeugung der Gebdrmutter, Germ.; Retroversion 'de la Matrice, Fr.) ; but if its base drop towards the share-bone, and the : mouth of the womb be inclined towards the rump-bone, it is called Antro- sversion (Antroversio Uteri, Lat.; Vorwartsbeugung, Germ. ; Antrover- sion, Fr.) The former position is more frequent than the latter, and both may occur to a greater or less extent. 1306. Retroversion of the Womb occurs more frequently during preg- nancy, especially in the third and fourth months, than in women not pregnant; it is, however in these often enough, and (according to Schweig- haeuser and Schmitt (a) ) even more frequent than during pregnancy; md my own observations on this point concur with that opinion. [Rigby is also of this opinion, and observes“ I am sure I have the confirming estimony of Dr. Simpson and Mr. P. Smith when I state it to be one of the most lommon displacements to which the uterus is liable in the unimpregnated state, and that his form Pf *t occurs far more frequently than the ordinary retroversion during iregnancy, (p. 124.) There is, however, a difference between the retroversion which iccurs whilst the woman is pregnant, and that when she is not so; for Rigby observes W H fSC i”0 r H li‘dedi t?,1VV!'ei'e thefundus is bent downwards and backwards • so t it can be felt close behind the os and cervix uteri, which, instead of being forcibly i ragged upwards and forwards behind the symphysis pubes, is little, if at allfremoved 10m its natural situation. This state of retroflexion (a term which Rigby prefers to eu-oversmn, j. f. s.) is chiefly met with in the unimpregnated uferJ. lRhough it ometimes occurs during pregnancy ” (p 124) S 6 aiuiougn it S bstruction of the rectum nnH thp hio^ri l -l9 n c9nse(luence of the irritation and haraoteSui before7v“.” (p £yf"' ‘he a“,d“‘ is s<»" recognised by the 11 ls Pro.babIe that retroversion of the womb in pregnant and not rfe s-s eviation of the original formalin .1 Ps aso Douglass folds, peculiar gaments of the womb The nor ° ■ ’ ie^axatl0n °f the broad and round 1 Bibliothek, vol. v., IliburUhr.lf. 3l.°--bTA“5s Archiv. fiir die ,V- Px ®37—Osiandek ; in 1 Zcitun»> lso«. vol.’ i BEUNMINOHAUaKN; in VON SlEBOLD' IV. s K^Terkrankhdten,rt^i!^ejii,^'^U5g^^?er'lma hakvseb and Sohmitt, above cited. " HWE‘°' and)Ap™E3A.i"H0RN’8ArChiv- 18l7> Mareh