OP EXCISION 968 geons, as they are more particularly concerned with the cases which form the principal.; subject of his consideration, observes :—“ That the injuries of civil life, and the ampu- tations for them, especially those performed in the primary period, are followed by more unfavourable results than equally grave injuries occurring in the field. If we reflect for a moment upon the mode in which the two classes of injuries are inflicted, I think an ade-r quate reason will suggest itself. A man employed in some agricultural or manufactur- ing occupation, if he becomes the subject of a grave injury, it must be under circum-i ;: stances for which his mind is totally unprepared, under circumstances the most calcu-ni lated to cause terror and a great shock, mental and physical. * * * In military life, ;.! the injuries inflicted are under very different circumstances ; it is true, men but the mo- • ment before with sound limbs and in full health, fall with bones crushed and broken,: ; with limbs torn from their bodies. But every man goes into action knowing his liability to such occurrences ; he sees his comrades fall on every side; many he sees bear it almost a gaily—the majority with good courage ; he has known hundreds to whom the same lot ‘ has fallen, recover, and either return to their duty or pass the rest of their lives, not un- happily with a pension. He is excited at the moment; the onward rush, the shouts of the victors and the vanquished mingling with the roar of artillery, the flashing peals of musketry, all tend to make him reckless of any feeling but one of wild excitement or enthusiasm. * * * The immediate shock of the injury is often, therefore, trifling d in some of the worst injuries.” (pp. 850, 51, vol. ii.)] Fifth Section.—OF EXCISION OF THE JOINTS (a). (Excisio Articulorum, Lat.; Ausrottung der Gelenktheile der Knochen, Germ.; Resection des Extremites Articulaires des Os, Fr.) White, Charles, Cases in Surgery, &c., p. 1. London, 1770. 8vo. Sabatier, Seances Publiques de l’Academie de Chirurgie, p. 73. Paris, 1799. Me'moires de l’lnstitut National, vol. v. p. 366. 1805. Park, H., An Account of a New Method of treating Diseases of the Joints of the Knee and Elbow. London, 1733. 8vo. Moreau, Observations pratiques relatives a la Resection des Articulations affectees s de Carie. (Diss. Inaug.) Paris, an xi. (1803.) Park, H., and Moreau, Cases of the Excision of Carious Joints; with Observations I by J. Jeffray. Glasgow, 1806. Chaussier ; in Magasin Encyclope'dique, cinquieme anne'e. Wachter, Dissert, de Articulis exstirpandis, inprimis de Genu exstirpato. Groning., 1810. Roux, De la Resection ou de Retranchement de portions d’Os Malades, soit dans lcs > Articulations, soit hors des Articulations. Paris, 1812. Syjie, James, On Excision of Joints ; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxxi. p. 256. 1829. , A Treatise on the Excision of Diseased Joints. Edinburgh, 1831. Svo. Crampton, Philip, On the Excision of CariouAJoints; in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 185. 1827. Jaeger, M., Article Dccapitatio; in Rust’s Ilandbuch der Chirurgie, vol. v. p.559. , Operatio Resectionis conspectu chronologico adumbrata. Erlang., 1832. Meyer, G., Ueber Resection und Decapitation. Erlangen, 1829. 2823. Although Pa ulus vEgineta and Heister had previously pointed to the extirpation of diseased joints, yet was it only first per- formed by Filicin of Liverpool, on the knee-joint, in 1762, and the re- moval of the head of the shoulder-bone was undertaken by Vigaroux, David and C. White (1), about the same time. The successful result which AViiite, and afterwards Bent (b) and Orred (c), had of this (a) I have here slightly deviated from Chelios, and Amputation, and for the same reasons.— distinguishing Excision from Resection, and pla- J. F. S. . _ cing them in two distinct sections ; to which they (6) Philosophical Transactions, vol. 'I1Y- r seem to me as fully entitled as Exarticulation 3.>3. 1..4. (e) Same, vol. Ixix. p. 6. 1719.