TAPPING; AFTER-TREATMENT. 485 . he wound is then cleaned, covered with a four-cornered piece of sticking 'aster, a compress put upon it, and the belly-bandage having been mode- itely tightened, is made fast. Bleeding may occur after tapping in three ways -.—first, by wounding a bowel in | ushing in the trocar, blood then escapes mingled with the water ; second, by rent of the $ ood-vessels from overfilling, after the quick removal of the pressure ; in this case, S: wards the end of the operation, the water is tinged with blood; and, third, by wounding .; ,e epigastric artery, or one of its branches, the blood then appears after the removal of rie canula, or it may be poured into the belly and symptoms of hidden bleeding ensue. In the first two cases proper compression of the belly with cold applications should gt > employed; in the third attempts should be made to stanch the bleeding, by the troduction of a stiff bougie or a piece of wax taper into the wound, or the wall of the > lly should be raised into a fold and compressed for some hours (a). e The external branch of the external epigastric artery, generally the largest, is some- ay mes scarcely observable, whilst on the contrary the vessel itself, with its principal -anches, passes upwards and inwards, where on tapping, a dangerous bleeding readily i isues if one or other of them be very large (6). r [I once, very soon after becoming Assistant Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, had S jf.ie misfortune to puncture the epigastric artery in tapping a dropsy of the belly. I had Spped this patient on the first occasion in the usual place, on the white line, midway .'tween the pubes and navel. Some weeks after my friend Green tapped him again, ■rbd about a month after, a third tapping was performed by me. Fancying that per- bnps the scar would not readily heal if I tapped in the same place again, I passed the at meet into the white line scarcely half an inch below the old scar, and afterwards the unt canula. As the water flowed he became very faint, but not more so than I have equently seen without any ill consequence ; and indeed wounding the epigastric artery 2'er crossed my mind, for I felt assured I was far away from it; nor was there any iv ood with the water, or from the wound afterwards, to lead to suspicion. Wine and r “indy were given, and he was put to bed quickly. He gradually sunk, and died m ithin twelve or fourteen hours. On examination, the belly was found full of blood, I i iould think four or five pints ; and on carefully dissecting the wound and its neigh- 'd Durhood, the epigastric artery was found to have inclined inwards, very soon after its f; rigin from the iliac, and ran up behind the white line through a large part of its d dent, between the pubes and navel, so that it was remarkable the vessel had escaped | onnd in the first two operations. From this untoward case I learnt a lesson I have ol ever forgotten, and which I would anxiously impress, to wit, that if tapping be per- i >rmed safely at one spot, it should be again and again performed in the same place, if !■> is patient required tapping twenty times. I have known another example very similar &■ - my case, which happened in the private practice of a medical friend, and with the HP; lme painful result. « I also had another case in which there was considerable difficulty in drawing off the to ater at all, as I had tapped with a trocar and open canula, and the intestines fell so i. pon the edge of the tube that I could only give escape to the fluid by introducing a S 'Hg elastic gum catheter through the canula into the belly. In this case, the water was '! ^uchA'nged with blood, and, on the removal of the catheter and canula, there was a and free 'kscharge of dark-coloured blood from the wound, which alarmed me much ! ™ was stayed with difficulty by pressure on the sides of the wound. No ill conse- r uc ’ however> ensued, and some time after I tapped her again without recurrence of Whe‘hf corl'ectl>' °r I presumed, from the dark colour of the I ’ttiat 1 had wounded some large veins.—j. f. s. *, m/*£!0N mentions an “ instance which he witnessed : clear serum issued for some I lnk ‘ i'5h the canu.la’ but at len6th Pure blood> not less than a pint. The patient I .CllME3“C" to ,n:es.iga,? the cam, of the blooding. In another irancrp v.. * n . — o* — — ui me uh^uiijh. in anotner |ooff fi’ i ^ell-authenticated case, the almost incredible quantity, twenty-six pints, of i TUt,.at thC ?rifiCcC rJe by thc tr0Car’ and afterwards separated into clot I, ie tapping le W°n(ler f those who saw the incident, the patient recovered from U ug, and the source of the homiorrhage is still a matter of conjecture.” (p. ;399.)] enwm- f°r lirst two f,ays after the operation, tlic patient should be " q et’ an(J avowed only a little light food. On the third day the (*0 Edinlmrrri, \r i . c Me<bcal Commmiicalions, vol. ii. p ai.la^b Mcd' a"d Sur«- •*ou,nab vol. viii. (c) bectures l’liysic, vol. ii. 482. on the Principles and Practice of