FEMORAL RUPTURE. 69 „ which the great saphenous vein penetrates to empty itself into the femoral vein. Above the former, the absorbent vessels penetrate, as Astley Cooper (a) describes, “ through the inner side of the sheath, near the pubes. In the male subject 1 have seen them enter the sheath in a cluster, through a single hole in this fascia ; but in both sexes the fascia is generally rendered cribriform, by these vessels passing through a variety of small openings.” (p. 9.) He also further states, what I must confess I have never observed, that “if the sheath be opened, the contents will be found separated by two membranous jsepta, one passing between the artery and vein, and the second, equally distinct between the vein and the absorbents. * * * The contents of the sheath differ in their attach- ments to the bag; the artery and vein are seen completely filling up the space in the sheath which is allotted to them; while the absorbents are loosely connected by means if cellular membrane and fat, which, not affording sufficient resistance to the pressure jjf the abdominal viscera, occasionally allows the descent of a hernia.” (p. 10.) This {portion of the sheath is commonly, in health, called the cribriform fascia, and it is be- ween it and the femoral vein that femoral rupture first enters the sheath, and then, pro- ruding its inner side, has been called by Astley Cooper the fascia propria of the •upture, a most inappropriate name, as it might lead to the supposition of a new forma- 1 ion instead of the simple protrusion of an old structure in these cases. In regard to his covering of the femoral sac, Cooper says:—“ A thin fascia naturally covers the ipening through which the hernia passes and descends on the posterior part of the tubes. When the hernia, therefore, enters the sheath, it pushes this fascia before it, so hat the sac may be perfectly drawn from its inner side, and the fascia which covers it eft distinct. The fascia which forms the crural sheath, and in which are placed the ' ‘.ole or holes for the absorbent vessels, is also protruded forwards, and is united with ■' other, so that the two become thus consolidated into one.” (partii .p. 2.) Cloquet i .Iso describes the closure ofthe top crural sheath in a very similar manner. “ The upper ; i rifice of the crural canal (sheath) is closed,” says he, “ by a membranous parti- - iion, which opposes the formation of crural rupture, as well as the entrance of the finger hen pushed from above downwards, above the crural arch. This partition forms - jbove the arch a sort of diaphragm-cellulo-fibrous, whitish, thick, and very resistant in jsme subjects; simply cellular, weak, and readily yielding in others. I propose giving ’ • the name crural septum. It arises completely around the upper opening of the crural :aj auab is thickish, and its fibres are most commonly transverse in front, towards the •_ } rural arch. \\ ithin it proceeds from the cellular tissue behind Gisibernat’s liga- lent; or, rather, from the concave edge of that ligament itself, conjointly with the 'J >ner wall of the crural canal (sheath) itself. Externally it is blended with the femoral leath, and the ammar tissue encircling the epigastric artery, on the outside of which ‘ „u ar.tlssue fills the space between the crural arch and vessels. Its upper abdominal irface is concave; its lower, towards the crural canal concave; but sometimes both rfaces are flat. It always presents one or more apertures for the passage of 'the mphatic vesse s, and sometimes the upper part of the crural canal seems merely closed ,/ZSr netWmrk- ,0ne°f.these ovenmgs, larger than the others, is central, f / P'tattd by an oblong lymphatic gland, and will admit the finger.” (pp. 73, 4.) C^W^ that,he has not found, on dissection, either Cooper’s “thin^fascia,” i* LlLOQUET8 * nnembranous partition,” and is “disposed to refer the origin of this ^ he CDndrased fibrous substance, which completes the crural sheath on j p g j mesial Slde- (P- 4/8.) And with Ins views in this respect I fully concur. J i1n?il0:^]th0Ug1h.the femoral ring is a larger opening than the abdo- ' IPS fin n ®mora ls ™ore.rare than inguinal rupture, because the intes- t fes anv orlr6? S° d',re?t y T" tliis Part; h is not originally open, nor | .men than fn mS.^ °Ug Fem°ral rUpture is raore frecluent in euL6e£nnrprPtUre.Crmences Wfth a little roundish deep-seated breadUl’ and i^ greatest diameter corresponds to inguinal nmt e" h TjT ^ The S,Wellin& ^ attains1 the size rves and nJ-/ ’ 1 } ’ l0Wever’ sPread over the femoral vessels and of n“mb"ess’-mn, of men, the distinction between femoral and (o) Hernin, part i.