375 NARROWING OF THE VAGINA. _ ,samination always readily discovers the closure of the vagina. When 1 |u‘s depends on the hymen, or on a mere skin, it is always distended like a ac by the collected blood, descends and fluctuates. I- 1705. The narrowing of the vagina extends either throughout its whole li euo-th, or is confined to one part. In the former case it depends on an rrested development of these parts ; in the latter, is usually the conse- i ,uence of injury of the vagina with loss of substance, in difficult labour, i ii which a part, has been destroyed by gangrene, and the scar contracts the ■ anal, or bands are formed which cross the vagina, or partial union of the ' massage takes place. There are sometimes one or several small holes in he membrane closing the vagina, or the hymen, although pervious is un- • lSually tough. According to the degree of narrowing various symptoms jkj uay be produced, as obstructed menstruation, pain in connexion, and the ike. Although the complete introduction of the penis into the narrow v. agina be not possible, yet pregnancy may occur. 1706. The cure of the closure of the vagina consists in opening it to | uch extent that it can perform its functions, and in preventing its re- inion. This operation is more or less difficult, according as the closure is i .t the orifice or higher up in the vagina, as it is thinner or thicker, or 0 nore or less extensive. The prevention of reunion is often attended with :onsiderable difficulty. 1707. In complete closure of the entrance of the vagina by the hymen, he person must be laid on her back with the thighs drawn up and sepa- rated ; the labia are to be held aside by assistants, and a lancet passed nto the middle of the stretched membrane, without injuring the rectum or )ladder. The aperture is to be enlarged with curved scissors, or with a iarrow curved bistoury, introduced upon a director. When the hymen s firm and tough, some practitioners advise the removal of the flaps thus firmed. If the operation be performed on a child, or in a case where here is not any collection of blood, especial caution is requisite to avoid njuring the bladder or rectum. The membrane must then be divided with lautious cuts, and previous introduction of a sound or catheter into the irethra, to prevent it being injured. When the urethra is also covered vith this membrane, the operation must be performed with the greatest ’are. If the labia be completely united, they must be stretched as much is possible to either side, and divided in the middle with careful strokes the knife, till a director can be introduced, and upon it a bntton-ended bistoury must complete the necessary enlargement. The same proceed- ng must be adopted if the entrance of the vagina be closed by a fleshy mass (a). J 1708. If the mouth of the vagina be only partially closed by the hymen, 3r the labia be united, a director must be introduced through the aper- ure, usually existing at the upper part near the urethra, upon which a narrow button-ended bistoury is passed, and the connexion divided to the necessary extent. !nrl^fan^ il is better not t0 use a knife> bllt merely to pass a probe through the aper- wlit, (|WC , n t° the bottom of the os externum, and then pressing the connecting skin I, , Pr°t>e point upon the finger-nail, till it make its rallv , Pro!* P01n* upon the finger-nail, till it make its way through, which is gene- forward W , 1 ease.; one en<1 of tbe Probe must be held steady whilst the other is drawn aeedfnl ’ m lts way out A Plece of lint inserted between the parts is all that is required 7.° n.ot re^olluct a case among several on which I have operated, that imred any further interference.—J. F. S.] (®) Donavld ; in Journal do Mededne, vol xxxvii.