498 HYDROCELE; (2) Astley Cooper says“ The testis is generally placed two thirds of the swelli i <6 downwards and at the posterior part of the scrotum; pressure at that part gives t A sensation of squeezing the testis.” (p. 87.) I think, however, from my own observatit M that the testicle is generally situated still nearer the bottom of the swelling than stat ■' c even by Cooper. The quantity of water in a hydrocele varies from twelve to sixteen ounces, bu • jji have occasionally drawn off between twenty and thirty. The largest quantity on reec > i is, I believe, that of the celebrated Gibbon the historian, from whom the elder Cu. > drew off six quarts ; and Brodie says that he has “ seen a hydrocele hanging down the patient’s knees.” (p. 89.) The serum of a hydrocele is generally straw-coloured and transparent, but son } times so dark that the light of a caudle held behind a swelling cannot be perceivt -ft I have recently had a case of this kind, in which the serum was dark greenish-broM and could not be seen through, though transparent, on account of its colour; t 1 vaginal tunic itself was thickened, the hydrocele being very large and of long standirCS Transparency, as a diagnostic mark, must therefore be received with some caution. j Astley Cooper also mentions, that the serum “ sometimes contains a quantity i white flaky matter, produced by chronic inflammation,” and “ when produced uud acute inflammation, the fluid is sometimes of a red colour, from a mixture of red par. cles of the blood.” He has also seen “ in the fluid of hydrocele, loose bodies, of whit ' there is a specimen in the Museum at St. Thomas’s.” (p. 92.) ] 1936. Hydrocele of the vaginal tunic of the testicle is distinguish t. from scrotal rupture by the way in which it begins, and by the swellin i enlarging neither by cough nor exertion, and from hardening of the testicb ! by its elastic, uniform, painless fluctuating character, whilst the hardened testicle is hard, irregular, and painful. Hardening, swelling, and hydrdfl cele of the testicle may exist at the same time (Hydrosarcocele.) Hydro / cele has many resemblances to medullary fungus of the testicle, and some > times the fluctuation at different parts may at first render the diagnosm difficult. The transparency of the hydrocele, when a light is held behin; j it in the dark, is in all cases to be considered as its most certain character ^ J [Hydrocele may be accompanied with either scrotal rupture or diseased testicle. TfcM rupture-sac may descend as low as the hydrocele and no further, which is common] < the case when the two diseases exist together; but it may also descend behind th * hydrocele, and the existence of the latter may not be noticed till strangulation of th rupture taking place, it is discovered during the operation. Cases of this kind have bee ! already mentioned in speaking of the varieties of strangulated rupture, (par. 1199, note. The diseased condition of the testicle itself is usually without difficulty made out ' though imperfectly, before the operation for tapping the hydrocele is performed; bu its nature cannot be easily discovered, and therefore the Surgeon must be guided b; j circumstances in regard to the steps he must take with it.—J. F. S.] 1937. The causes of hydrocele are in most instances unknown ; it arise * of its own accord in healthy subjects, and is especially frequent in childrci 1 and old persons. Its cause often seems to be a slow inflammation of the t vaginal tunic; frequently it occurs after bruises of the testicle in riding i and the like ; sometimes from cold ; after inflammation or other affection! t] of the urethra; from wearing ill-fitting trusses, and from syphilis. According to Rochoux (a), the swelling of the scrotum, consequent on a clap, does j not, as generally supposed, depend on inflammation of the testicle, but on a bydrexw 1 arising from inflammation of the vaginal tunic (a vaginalittf, as he calls it.) grounds of this opinion are, that the testicle, surrounded by a firm, thick, fibrous mem- t brane, cannot swell up to such a degree in a few days, and sometimes even in a tv* hours, to double its natural size, and even more; that such swelling of the testicle rarejv goes on to suppuration, whilst inflammation of that organ from other causes, commonlv 1 has that result; that at the onset there is always tluctutatiou with this swelling, an j that, in some cases, fluctuation is perceptible on examination. Gacsseil (b) holds tua • (а) Archives ^encralcs de Modecine, vol. ii. p. 51. 1833. (б) Archives generates de Mcdecine, vol. xxvil. p. 188.