600 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; wound it cannot be removed, nothing remains but either to break it - . pieces with Earle’s (a) stone-breakers; or if the stone be not too hari the outer layers may be broken with a pair of common stone-forceps or, what is still better, IIeurteloup’s percuteur may be used ; < the bladder may be cut into above the pubes, which proceeding always most proper when the stone is very hard. Under these circun stances, also, the extraction of the stone has been recommended 1, be made subsequently, (Steinschnitt in zwei Zeitraiimen, Germ.; Tail en deux terns, Fr.,) when suppuration has commenced in the wounc the extraction, however, is never thereby rendered easier, and th: practice is in general to be rejected. Small stones may also lie t between the blades of the forceps, that the handles are not sept, rated, and the operator thinks he has not grasped the stone; i withdrawing and accidentally turning of the forceps, such stone ma. remain concealed within them, without the operator being aware < it, as I myself have observed. The gush of urine, after cutting ini: the neck of the bladder, may also throw out a little stone. Sma stones can often be well seized with a pair of dressing-forceps, or wit flat-bladed stone-forceps. Campana (b) considers the extraction of the stone more easy and less injurious, if be grasped by its largest diameter. , [If after the entrance of the gorget into the bladder, the urine do not immediate.- flow out, as it usually does, though less frequently when the internal wound is mac with the knife only, it does gush forth suddenly as soon as the forceps are introduce “ not impelled,” says Brodie, “ by muscular exertion, but by its own gravity and tr pressure of the viscera. Under these circumstances, when you introduce your tinge into the bladder, you find the muscular tunic relaxed, and the mucous membrai hanging in folds; and in consequence they are not likely to be ruptured. In otht instances, the patient voids his urine immediately before the operation, or perhaps durir the introduction of the staff. Here, the urine having been made to flow by the patient own efforts, the muscular tunic is contracted ; it offers a considerable resistance to tt opening of the forceps, and is liable to be ruptured, if the blades are opened rudely ar incautiously.” (pp. 317, 18.) A case of this kind Brodie mentions, in which “tt bladder (as he supposed) was in a contracted state, and the Surgeon, m opemng tt forceps, observed a resistance, which suddenly gave way, as if a ligature had bee broken.” * * * On the third morning after the operation, he died, and on ejqmg tion, it was “ found that the mucous membrane and muscular tunic of the blad« had been ruptured to the extent of three quarters of an inch.” (p. 304.) I ,[ave> recently, in operating on a child of nineteen months, been inconvenienced by the vio contraction of the bladder which Brodie mentions, and to a degree of which I baa n notion. I had operated with the cutting gorget, and introduced the forceps w ith per h a little more difficulty thau usual, and immediately found the stone; but on attempts* to open their blades, I found it impossible without using force, which was not justtnaflHj I passed the blades farther in, drew them back, gave them a quarter turn, each um« endeavouring to open them, but in vain; they were as firmly closed as if they had bee* tied together, and a momentary thought passed through my mind, that they might ba - escaped from the gorget, and slipped between the bladder and rectum; however, *een the stone distinctly, again and again, I was convinced that could not be the case, an- that the blades were fairly in the bladder. I continued making gentle attempts toop^ them, and full five minutes elapsed before they would move at all; they then bCgM slowly to open, and at last sufficiently to allow the stone to get between them, w was extracted, though not before it had slipped once or twice, as I could on*} *.. catch hold of the edge, the principal part of the stone seeming to have been lodgea a fold of the bladder, from which 1 could not disengage it Now, had 1 v>oit attempted to open the forceps in this case, I should undoubtedly have torn the b ' as in that mentioned by Brodie; but using only gentle efforts, the bladdery slowly, and the operation was safely completed.—J. F. S.] (а) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 69. pi. iii. 18. (б) von Gbaefe und von Waltheb’s Journal, vol. v. p. 171.