171 OF THE LIMBS. with the barrow and rope. The patient’s powers must be supported by a utritious diet and proper medicines. I' If the nature of this ailment be ascertained only by the horizontal posture, or by careful attempts at extension, if no other pain exist than that caused by careful extension, if it be not increased by pressure on the painful spot, and if it decrease by resting quietly on the back, the gymnastic exercises may be at once begun, with caution ; then followed by the employment of extension; and lastly, the lateral bandages (a) may be also employed. 1367. In curvature of the spine depending on rickets, the treatment must be especially directed towards the improvement of digestion and chylification, by tonic remedies and strengthening diet; aromatic and spirituous rubbings, strengthening baths, lying in the open air upon a . sand-bank, warmed by the sun, are to be employed; horizontal posture ipon a hard mattrass, and subsequently, gymnastic exercises and the extending apparatus are to be carefully made use of. The treatment is •imilar in osteomalacy; bark with phosphoric acid is here especially ifficient, as I have repeatedly observed. The very severe pain often Bsccurring in these cases, must not lead to the application of leeches, md so on. Besides proper position, and support of the body in general, ■ lothing further can be done in these cases against the curvature. 1368. If the curvature be connected with rheumatism, a correspondent i reatment must be employed; and the complication having been got rid $ >f, the treatment of the curvature must be thought about. Palsy 'of one >r several muscles often occurs from rheumatism ; in such cases, moxas, louche baths, purgatives long continued, and the like, are very efficient. ’ Curvatures of the spine, from contraction of one side of the chest, after the cure of an mpi/ema, or abscess in the lungs, are incurable, and every attempt at their treatment nadmissible and dangerous. Curvatures from shortening of one of the lower limbs iay, in many instances, be prevented by a peculiar shoe and the like, by which the iroper length of the limb is attained. J III.—Of Curvatures of the Limbs. [The several portions of the lower limbs are occasionally and variously •urved and contracted upon each other, either as original imperfect devel- opments, or resulting at any period of life from different causes, which nay be either inflammatory, or from paralytic affection of one set of nuscles, whilst their antagonists still possess their contractile power and ■ >eing unopposed, draw together more or less completely those portions of he limb to which they are attached. The fixedness of the limbs from Uher ol these causes must not be confused with that depending on anchylosis •Iready considered {par 224*) {b) in which, after more or less complete .Sfion Tp'of their cart^laSe?> the joint-ends of the bones are fixed in any brois or hL1"^ 6 a£TU ’ Unng thG pr°Sress of ^e disease, by a mon b0"y.um0n; ,The cases now to be considered depend entirely ^ils eCio ri :0tb0f r mr Vheir tend0ns’ and tendinous sheaths^ erv ittl! J n themselves have their structure entirely changed, or but erj httle altered; and in such only can surgical treatment be of any (a) Delpkcii, Orthomorphie, vol. ii. p.238. (b) Vol. i. p. 241.