EXCISION OF THE 992 downwards and forwards considerably beyond the angle of the jaw towards the chin. In consequence of the thickened state of the integuments, the depth of the wound was very great before I could reach the bone; but having made sufficient room for the introduction of my finger, I was gratified in finding the bone without its periosteum; and with a curved bistoury, the incision was speedily finished upwards to the zygomatic arch, and downwards beyond the edge of the lower jaw opposite the third molar tooth. With the handle of a scalpel and the blade of a pair of forceps, sufficient separation was made to allow the point of the forefinger to range freely and to separate the surround- ing diseased structure from the enclosed bone. By thus doing, I was enabled to slide the forefinger within the ascending branch of the jaw-bone into the mouth, and the thumb under its angle. On endeavouring to ascertain the degree of fixture which the bone might have, I discovered a complete fissure of separation in an oblique direction from where the finger entered the mouth towards the chin, through the entire jaw, but the bone was immovable at the temporo-maxillary articulation. After repeated unsuc- cessful attempts at dislodging the condyle, I determined to saw vertically through the ascending branch of the bone, between the condyloid and coronoid processes, calculat- ing that the separation would be more easily effected by bringing it away in two or more pieces. I therefore applied a small straight and narrow saw upon this part with excellent effect, as its end passed with facility, in the required movements, under the zygomatic arch ; and Key’s saw was very useful in cutting through the thicker part towards the angle. I now with a pair of strong forceps, grasped the lower edge of the divided bone, and easily dislodged the coronoid process, and I removed it together with the lower part of this portion. Having thus gained considerable room, the separation of the con- dyle and remaining portion of the ascending branch became quite easy. The bone, although dead, retained its form unaltered. The glenoid cavity of the temporal bone was by the finger discovered to be denuded and rough. The carotid artery was now felt distinctly pulsating, the finger being enabled to rest upon it. One great object having been thus attained, we were anxious to ascertain the state of the other articula- tion, and were highly gratified in finding that a slight degree of motion existed which gradually became increased. Some few months after, I had the satisfaction of finding the wound and sinuses healed; the swelling and its warty character subsided; the globe of the eye retired into its socket, and the motions of the jaw restored. The patient lived several years after.” Giiaei'e (a), in 1821, exarticulated one side of the lower jaw of a young woman, having previously tied the carotid artery, for lujdrostosis carcinomatodes, which had destroyed more than half the jaw, and on the left side reached up to the condyle. The swelling extended far back, and pressed on the important vessels and nerves of the neck. Internally it thrust the tongue against the right cheek, and so completely filled the mouth, that latterly the patient was able to swallow even fluids with the greatest effort, could only utter words indistinctly, and breath with extreme difficulty.. As death’by hunger or choking was all but certain, it was determined to run the risk of operating in hope of saving her. The left common carotid artery, which was very large and pulsated strongly, was carefully tied, and immediately the pulsation in the tem- poral and facial arteries ceased. A cut was then made from the angle of the mouth to the hinder edge of the jaw ; a second, which included the diseased mass, was earned from the front point of the first cut to its hind end; and a third, beginning at this hitter point was carried upwards in the direction of the condyloid process, above the joint and nearly to the ear. The outer surface first, and then the inner surface of the diseased half of the bone, were freed from the soft parts continuing the separation to the chin, and then, a piece of leather having been introduced, the jaw was cut through at the chin, and afterwards exarticulated. When the bleeding had been stanched, and the corner of the mouth carefully fixed, a simple dressing was applied. Up to the eighth day she was perfectly well, could speak loud and distinctly, ate, drank, ana k,, .i,„ Unlf of the lower firmlv airainst the unoer iaw : but on to month. (rt) Above cited, p. 257.