HERNIAL SAC. 3 tlrni it does descend into a true hernial sac is beyond doubt, for in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, there is an instance of the lower end of the ileum the cacum and its appendage, and part of the ascending colon, with a large piece of omentum in the sac of a large oblique inguinal rupture. There is also another prepa- ration, in which the lower end of the ileum, with the cacum and its appendage arePin the sac of an inguinal rupture, and the extremity of the appendage is attached to bottom of the sac. In St. Bartholomew’s museum there is a scrotal rupture (with hydro cele m front) containing cacum and colon. Also a femoral rupture, in which there is small intestine, a portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon and omentum. A very rare instance of protrusion of the vermiform appendage of the cacum in a lngUUlal ruPture is given by Tahamem.i (a); the appendage^alone was wPWHp the sac’ ^creased to four times its ordinary size, and an indent at its junction ■with the cacum showed the seat of strangulation. The patient did well. J. F.JS.] 1114. The cavity of the hernial sac is connected with the cavity of the belly by an opening, the mouth of the sac; the narrow part between this opening and the greater extent of the sac is called the neck of the sac- the remaining part the body; and the blind end, the bottom of the hernial sac. The sac is furnished with different coverings according to the difference of place where the rupture exists ; on its outer surface it is slightly connected with the surrounding cellular tissue, and therefore the sac remains external when the intestines have been returned. 115. lhe hernial sac is very frequently subject to chancres. The ^^"of which it is formed usually retains its natural concUtion and en in old ruptures it thickens, and is found to consist of several layers the cause of these changes, for the most part, rests on the thickening- of the cellular tissue, which covers the outer surface of the sac. The substancp of tdaSed fl'T ^The °ften Jhickens and even becomes almost car- Th <i ,chanfes are the result of the irritation and pressure the iiw- he Sal1S s”b->ec„ted’ by the passage forwards and backwards of the intestines ; they therefore occur especially in old ruptures which cmnof be properly kept up by the truss, and mostly at the SHf fte sac ?f by contraction of the neck of the sac, or by thickening of the 1b i 7fnf0™« ‘"o - degeneration^ ^ a'S° “ St' Th0m*S'S’ ls • preparation of a femoral hernia, sa0 C““S »f s,™*»re in the body of the sac, into its cavity, £ thSt the Ste is 'A “°r' ?.r0Periy'the “°“‘h of 33S years,^ml S ^ M2 ffi SsZ '£ ytry high up. This I divided unnn ■, °Peratlon an extremely tight stricture was found “Ti* °f the belly; but with fcSforefinger freely j«to the cavity of the belly • buTwhh olnf1 safficTiently to admit my forefinger freely ^ gin. After many unavailing efforts I St ^ 1 was “able to return muscle and the other covering nf rn 1 throu£h the tendon of the external oblicme mouth completely into view wi* UpPf part ot the sac-tiU 1 brought its stricfS iversaii tli Medicinn, vol. Ixxv, p. 430, 1835.