338 TREATMENT OF FBrodie observes, that “ success in the management of this disease will vary very much in different cases. It will depend chiefly on the period of the disease on which vou are consulted. If it he quite in the early stage, you may render the patient great service- and although you cannot cure the stricture of the rectum, any more than you can cure the stricture of the urethra, yet you can dilate it, and keep it dilated, so that the natient will suffer little from it, and that it will not shorten his life. But if you are consulted in the advanced stage, when the stricture is much contracted, when the mucous membrane is ulcerated, when abscesses have formed in the neighbourhood, . you can only palliate the symptoms in some degree. The patient under the eircum- j stances in spite of all your efforts, will lead a a miserable life, and in all probability will ultimately fall a victim to the disease.” (p. 30.)] _ 1633. The treatment of stricture of the rectum consists in subduing n its cause and the constitutional disease in causal relation to it, and in the removal of the stricture. The first indication requires the use of suitable antiphlogistic remedies, or such as operate on the skin, purging, proper • treatment of hsemorrhoidal affections and abdominal plethora, and on; but especially strict attention to the mode of living, carefulness as to free * relief from the bowels, repeated application of leeches, soothing injections into the rectum, hip-bath, rubbing in mild ointments with, according to circumstances, extract of belladonna or cicuta. By such treatment, with H proper care, and corresponding to the circumstances of the individual a case, a stop may be put to an incipient stricture, as I have in some in- stances observed. I have also used at the same time, internally, iodide ot potash with good effect. But such result is only possible mtheW- beginning of a stricture ; if it have already proceeded farther, no effect can be produced on the stricture itself, but it is necessary, if t^e ^rict“” * and the rectum be in a state of irritation, to undertake in addition the direct employment of mechanical remedies upon the stricture, vhichr consist of stretching, cutting into or cutting out, and cauterization ot tbe i cases” says Brodie, “the faeces accumulate above the stricture, the i i bowel in this situation, becoming distended into a large bag, forming an immense reservoir of feculent matter, always pressing against the stricture, and aggrav ng the disease It is very important to empty the bowel which is thus loaded and you can only do it in the following manner ^Introduce an elastic f1““a stricture into the feculent mass above; inject tepid water, or tepid soap and water,or " solution of caustic alkali ; and by repeating tin,e® gut with warm water every day, or every other day, you may at last^get the ^ the feculent accumulation dissolved, and empty the reseivoir. toDre- accomplished, the injection of warm water should be constantly repeated, so P vent the accumulation taking place again, (pp. 29, 30.)J , , 1634. Stretching, by which the narrowed part may be enlarged, 1 consolidation of the cellular tissue accompanying it ,jJ with plugs, wax, and elastic bougies, sponge tent, with metallic. or goldbeater’s skin dilators, and the like. . . f635. The plugs of lint which Desault used with the especial o J of introducing medicated substances, are carefully passed into *16 * to with a plug-liolder, after having been smeared withp ^ld ^Sion which extract of belladonna, or cicuta have been added , or J and of decoction of cicuta is made. The plugs should be nia e. bear allowed to remain up for a longer time, according as the patient cW ^ them. As their introduction with the holder is often d1u<>- completely closes the rectum, so as even to prevent the e.c. Tanchou has proposed fixing the plug on an elastic metal canula,^ introduce it on a silver button-ended probe, first passed into duced 1636. Elastic and wax bougies, of corresponding size, are