INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 429 ■precise way in which he describes it; and it was then so old, that no one, that I am • ware, laid any particular claim to the discovery of it. He must not, therefore, run • way with the credit of having proposed not only the best, but the only operation for ■eteution of urine which ought to be performed, with the single exception of retention rom enlarged prostate, in which, if an operation for retention be ever required, that ibove the pubes must be performed.—J. F. S.] Of the Catheter and its Introduction. 1814. The catheter is a cylindrical tube of different thickness, straight- ess and curve, corresponding to the extent and curve of the urethra. It lay be either firm or flexible ; in the former case it is best to be made of fiver, and in the latter, of elastic gum or caoutchouc. The length of the atheter is different; for adult women six, and for young females five iches is sufficient; for adult men from ten to eleven, and the several leriods of boyhood from five to seven inches. The thickness also varies ; )r women two lines, for girls a line and a half, for men two and a half nes, and for younger males a line and a half. The front third of a small atheter is slightly curved, and corresponds to the segment of a circle f which the diameter is six inches (1) ; the other parts of the catheter are raight, and its upper end is provided with a ring on each side- The emale catheter is only slightly curved at its front extremity. The front ad of the instrument is rounded, and has on either side a pretty large nd well rounded hole. The walls of the catheter should not be very fin, and its surface should be well smoothed and polished (2). All catheters lould be furnished with a stilette fitting into their cavity, and in elastic itheters it is best that this should be made of iron. 1A large catheter is in general more easy of introduction than a small one, because properly distends the walls of the urethra, and is not so easily caught in its folds as a nailer one. In cases, however, where considerable obstruction has to be overcome, as i stricture, a small catheter is passed more easily. One oval opening on the side ‘ the front end of the instrument is better than several smaller ones, or than two i opposite sides; the little holes being easily stopped up in the former, whilst in the tter the necessary strength of the instrument is interfered with. The practice closing the open end of the catheter with a round plug attached to the stilette unnecessary. The curve, already directed, of the front third of the instrument, is the •ost proper; the Surgeon must, however, be provided with catheters of different #rves, which are often necessary on account of the particular seat of the obstacle, s lastic silver catheters are useless. m Elastic catheters, with a permanent curve, so that they can be introduced without a 1 *lette, are in many instances advisable. I double S (shaped) curved catheter of Petit is of no value. SDBerton (a) recommends the use of catheters, one having a curve at an inch and v*other at an inch and a half from its tip, so that the lengthening of the axis of the o? the instrument makes, with the prolonged axis of its vesical extremity an gie, in the former of from 9° to 10°, and in the latter of from 14° to 15° These ►4<rves do not exceed the smallest diameter of the urethra, which varies between three Straight catheters were already known to the ancients, as proved by those which have tn (lug up at Pompeii; they were but very little curved (6). KStiih® f° FA“IUrCIUS’ RAMEAU> SlETAUD; Santarelli, and Cassus used Cl Z men: recommended, in 1812, straight sounds in his r^ Civi ,! , C,rUAsh'ng St°neST; *utv of]ate they been more particularly advised the lAi'IU?,r 11 18 therefore remarkable that Fournier (c) should have f i,, the priority of discovery of straight sounds, because he has used them since tu G6 Zwzrf si&n' ral63 M‘!<k‘einet vol. x '* .(&) Cahsus, \/ed. Operat., vol. i. pi. iij. f, ]. (c) Do l’Emploi de Litliotritie, Sondes droites. etc. Paris, 1829.