831 HISTORY OF NOSE-MAKING. skin, especially that of the forehead, is made use of; or the skin of the arm, whilst still remaining connected with its original seat, till it has become organically connected with the part on to which it has been trans- planted ; or the transplantation of a completely detached piece of skin upon the part to be supplied. The ancient bad practice of restoring old divisions and clefts of the nose by drawing together their edges fresh pared and detached to some extent, or by encouraging granu- lation must be distinguished from restoration by transplanting. 2532. The origin of organic restoration is lost in the earliest periods of Indian history, and appears to have been preserved from age to a^e in certain castes, especially the Koomas or Potters. In India, where many criminals are punished by cutting off the nose, ears, and lips, the frequency of such mutilations has manifestly led to this operation. The peculiarity of the Indian Method is, that the flaps of skin necessary for the restora- tion are formed from the skin of the forehead. About the middle of the fifteenth century, the art of restoring lost noses was found in Sicily, in possession of the family of Branca, from whom it passed into Calabria, to the family of Bojani, but with the end of the sixteenth century it was entirely lost. About the same time it was prac- lsed by Caspar Tagliacozzi, of Bologna; he wrote a special work on the subject, and brought it into great repute. It is doubtful whether this operation was brought from India to Italy, perhaps by the Arabs or I/.,.6 m!-S!!0np'ies, or whether originated in Italy itself. The cliarac- e stic of the 1 agliacozzian or Italian Method, is the formation of the restoring flaps from the skin oj the arm, which, after a prepara tory manage- ment are attached to the seat of transplantation. TagLacozzi had but w !nLf° TerS a scholar. CoRTESI described his master’s and his own < somewhat modified operation m 1625; Griffon performed it twice Molinetti once, and Thomas Fienos gave an extract relating to h inm lT Zf S W°rk- Ior a lon& whiIe after> this operation sunk into disuse, since by most people it was held to be inapplicable or fabulous t „ry UV°Tu «10Ught ab°Ut iL Yet in India it was still practised’ fceven by an English Surgeon named Lucas, who had learnt it from the V °Pera or«’ and was successful ; and in England it was perfumed I jI 10 18°3’ and by Sutcliffe («), though by both unsuccessfully In 1814, however it was first performed with good result by Carpue « m two cases which he has described in his Paper In Germany ’ I z tTeirjS1 rr ,in ,816’ & * ‘Plasty. Akholi Gr^r r |ngU1 ? T German Method of BWno- m cations ht has hovvovot n u ,nany niceties and compli- this oiratio; ar d must’ Z ^ i“UCh t0 tlie real improvement of •1 'Surgery in GermL.v 111 ° T i “i the. actual creatol' Wa»tic Reiner Textor mv'splf t? txaml),c had quickly numerous followers, and others ' IBiinonSu Rust> vof Waltiier, Beck, Dzondi, Fricke, 1 nut Plastic Surrrpiv «• ^ a °ne actually improved and simplified, it he like Ti.p L ^ • JS extended to the restoration of eyelids, lips, and ■ „ 1 ha mMt services in this respect have been rendered Carpuk, above cited, n. 41. ha ?»• . . , . ** C®) Histoire dc 1 Academie ties Sciences. 1721.