POSTSCRIPT 1008 operation lasted four or five minutes, during which time the patient betrayed occasional marks of uneasiness, hut upon subsequently regaining her consciousness, professed not only to have felt no pain, but to have been insensible to surrounding objects, to have known nothing of the operation, being only uneasy about a child left at home.” (p. 271.) Two other cases are also mentioned by Bigelow, one of amputation above the knee, the other of removal of a portion of the lower jaw, during both which operations the patients were insensible to pain. An account of this wonderful discovery reached this country on 17th December, 1846, and on the 19th, a young female, having been intoxi- cated by inhaling ether for a minute and a half, had a molar tooth extracted from the lower jaw by Robinson (a). On the same day, Liston (b) amputated the leg of one patient, and twisted off the great toe-nail of another, whilst they were under the influ- ence of ethereal inhalation, and “ neither of the patients knew, when they recovered from their stupor, that the operation had been performed.” (p. 251.) Since this time, the public and medical journals have been teeming with “ painless operations” of all kinds, performed in all parts of the country. That insensibility to pain, consequent on complete intoxication by breathing the fumes of ether, may be produced in many cases, is beyond all doubt; but that this con- . dition will be induced in all instances is certainly untrue. Its failure does not depend, as is asserted, on the inhalation not being properly performed, for ail persons are not alike affected by it, however carefully and perseveringly the ether may be administered. In proof of this, I may select, from among many instances, a case which occurred during the present month, (February, 1847,) at St. Thomas’s Hospital. A man, whose toe-nail was to be twisted off, inhaled ether most assiduously for more than half an hour, without the slightest degree of insensibility being induced ; but it could not be objected that he was not fully subjected to the influence of the medicine, since after twenty hours his breath was still so impregnated with the ether, that it was strongly smelt by persons standing at the foot of his bed. The avidity with which ethereal inhalation has been generally adopted, and appa- rently without consideration of the possibility of its indiscriminate employment being ever attended with danger, is one of the most remarkable circumstances connected with it. But, that it is not unfrequently accompanied,with inconvenient and even dangerous results there can be no doubt. Bigelow, in his paper before the Boston Society, mentions the more or less severe cough, which was immediately induced in several of the cases he relates. In another instance, I have known hcemoptysis and bronchitis induced, in a patient who had previously suffered from hcemoptysis. Morris (c) states of a woman, that “ she did not appear at all timid, and began to inhale the vapour with the greatest confidence; after five or six inspirations she suddenly became deadly pale, and stated that she was suffocating, and refused to continue breathing the ether ; she had scarcely | done speaking before she coughed violently three or four times, the flow of blood to the head was instantaneous; she became quite purple in the face, the temporal veins were much distended, and the arteries throbbed violently ; she was perfectly sensible, and complained of a sense of suffocation, and that she should die. She remained in this state I for five minutes at least, when the face began to assume its natural colour. She was a lone time before she was able to leave the house ; and after she had been at home two hours had a fit, in which she was stiff and insensible for ten minutes. Although up- wards of a fortnight has elapsed since she inhaled the vapour, she is far from recovere , complaining of a great deal of pain and confusion about the head, and oppression at t le chest.” He mentions also, of one boy, that “ after having inhaled for a short time, . instead of depressing him he became furious, called out loudly, and we had grea difficulty in pacifying him;” and of another, that the inhalation “ brought on a mos distressing cough, which continued so long as he breathed the vapour; after a time l B produced precisely the same effects as nitrous oxide; he laughed most heartily, an J looked quite idiotic. After waiting an hour he again tried the vapour, but with t >e lmp results.” (p. 352.) Cotton also states, that in one of his cases “ boisterous, hyste- rical-like spasms followed, as observed by Professor Parker, requiring all the force « the bystanders to hold the patient Further inhalation, however, served to effect the 1 rpouired decree of unconsciousness.” (p. 353.) , It has also happened, that the patient has not recovered so speedily after the remove of the inhaler, as is commonly stated; indeed, it was almost feared lie was dead, an he only revived by pouring quantities of wme down his throat. In this case, the . ceon who operated noticed, that all vital resistance of the tissues had ceased, and that the sensation given by his knife was as if he were cutting into a dead body. (n) Medical Times, vol. xv. p. 273. W Ibid. (e) Ibid.