242 TYING TIIE axillary nerves, together with its great depth, render it a very hazardous and difficu operation. As to dragging up the whole mass of vessels and nerves to the surface, an then selecting the artery to be tied, as recommended by Delpech, no person who ha»] had any experience in tying arteries, would think of doing, on account of the necessar i detachment of the vessel from its connexions, which would put it into a very unfavoir j able condition for the effusion of adhesive matter on its exterior, and interfere with i i healing up. And indeed, though this might be done on a vessel undiseased, yet if an j aneurysmal swelling existed, there would not be room to attempt it. Nor is there an I good reason to perform so troublesome and dangerous an operation, when tying ti j subclavian above the collar-bone will answer all the purposes required, with greatra] ease and safety. If the artery were wounded and its ends exposed, as in Halj/s cas i related by J. 13ell (a), and Maunoir’s case, mentioned by Scarpa (6), then ying th i ends of the wounded vessel would, as under ordinary circumstances, be required. Bi , for aneurysm of this vessel, tying the subclaviau is always preferable.—J. F. S.] 1453. If an aneurysm situated upon the commencement of the axillaris artery, or at a deep part of its commencement, so extend, that it reach tl j collar-bone, the subclavian artery must be tied above the collar-bon. ■ The patient being seated on a chair, or laid horizontally upon a table, aim the shoulder of the ailing side depressed as much as possible, a cut Is mat ', through the skin, extending from the outer edge of the sterno-masto:: i muscle, along the collar-bone, to the clavicular insertion of the m. trap zius. Then the rn. platysma myoides is to be divided carefully in tl , same direction, so that the external jugular vein may not be wounde • which, when laid bare, is to be drawn towards the shoulder with a blui :j hook. The cellular tissue in the midst of the wound is next divide^ with the knife, or more safely with the finger, or a director, till the ed< of the m. scalenus anticus be reached with the finger, where the artery found lying on the first rib, and the ligature is to be carried round it wit' Deschamps’ or Desault’s needle. The cut for tying the subclavian artery, should, according to Zang, 1 u made in the middle of the triangle, formed by the hind belly of tl si m. omo-hyoideus, and the hind edge of the clavicular part of the m. stem- cleido-mastoideus, and should be commenced two inches above the colla; bone, at the hind edge of the latter muscle, and carried somewhat oblique outwards and downwards to the middle of the collar-bone. I have found this operation easiest on the dead subject; the subclavian vein lies on t inside of the artery, the nervous plexus on the outside, and partially covering it , little stud on the first rib, which is felt at the inner side of the artery, and the belli made by the artery in that rib, are given as the certain marks for directing the upon the artery. Taking up this artery is often extraordinarily difficult, and ev ^ impossible (n), if, from the size of the swelling, the. collar-bone be very much thntj up ; the operation should therefore always be performed early. The same also happe . J in tying the ligature for which Liston (d) has proposed a peculiar contrivance. Ast artery is partially covered with the plexus of nerves, one of the nerves may be taken • J and tied instead of the artery, as pulsation is propagated to it (e). In one case where the ordinary mode of treatment was inapplicable, Dcpcttrkn l-JJ cut through the in. scalenus anticus. IIougson, Lisfranc, and Guaefe, have propos : the same in their modes of practice, that, after a long cut has been made through AI skin and the in. platusma myoides, from the hind edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, m . ljl two to two and a half inches along the collar-bone, the operator should dip deeply, a seek for the in. scalenus anticus, pass beneath it a curved director, raise it up. and CT» *1 through either from without inwards, or carefully across, without previously introduci a director. (а) A Discourse on the Nature and Cure of Wounds. Third Edit., Edinburgh, 1812, p. 59. (б) Wishabi s Translation, above cited, p -112. (c) Cooper, A , London Medical Review, vol. ii. p. 300. (/) Lecons Orales, vol. iv. p. 530. (ti) Edinburgh Medic, and Surg. Journal. 1 xvi. p. 348.—Lanoknbkck, in his Noer ** thek fiir Chirurgio und Ophthalmologic, **• "1 p. 269, pi. i. f. 2, pi. ii. f. i. (<■) Mankc, above cited, pi. iv.