119 OF TIIK WOMB. hitherto been merely regarded as sympathetic. The intestinal pains, the swelling of the belly, the sickness, vomitings, hiccough, so frequently attributed to reversion of the womb, may actually depend in some women only on this strangulation.” (p. 80.) ) (2) “Whilst the inverted uterus remains in the vagina, the discharge (excepting at the periods of menstruation) will be of a mucous kind,” observes Clarke; “but if the uterus falls lower, so as to protrude beyond the external parts, the exposure of that surface, which, in a natural state, lined the cavity, to air, as well as to occasional injuries, may induce inflammation and ulceration over a part, or the whole of its surface ; and the mucous discharge may be changed to one of a purulent kind, so considerable in quantity as to debilitate the constitution, and to cause all the common symptoms of weakness. If there are any ulcerations upon the surface of the upper part of the tumour, formed by the inversion of the vagina, they will be circumscribed, and rarely cover its whole surface.” (p. 155.)] 1287. Inversion is distinguished from prolapse of the womb by the pear-shaped swelling, broad below, on which no opening is found (par. 1269.) The distinction from a polyp of the womb is always difficult, and depends^ on the following circumstances ; in the complete inversion, the form of the swelling resembles indeed that of the polyp, but it is enclosed at the upper part by a fold, and neither the finger nor a probe can be passed up between the swelling and this fold, as it can in polyp ; the completely inverted womb has also at its upper part, from being hollow, a soft and yielding character. But this distinction is especially difficult in an incomplete and slowly produced inversion. When the inverted womb still lies in the vagina, it is broader above than below, but the polyp has the directly contrary form ; the swelling of the prolapsed womb has a more definite feel than the polyp, which last is more movable and its surface smoother than that of the prolapsed womb. The simple inbending of the womb may in some degree be felt through the skin of the belly, lhe diagnosis is considerably assisted by the origin of the ailment after previous delivery. But all these circumstances may, in certain cases, Si T mi-? r6SUltS J, f0r the forra of PolYPS ^ well as their sensi- lty and mobility varies ; both swellings may present a smooth or uneven surface; the polyp may appear soon after birth ; the examination of the beily in stout persons gives no result. It seems to deserve particular attention that the polyp, when it has once penetrated the mouth of the ivomb, grows remarkably quick. 1288. The first indication, in inverted womb, is to return it to its place is soon as possible, because otherwise by the quickly ensuing inflammation ind swelling, its replacement is difficult and impossible. If the inversion ,vomhCOmPiieteiLand ueCent’ k is sufficient t0 thrust UP the bottom of the nil t°?n- y tbrougb lts mouth, with the fingers of the right or left hand w-cted m a conical form. If the inversion be complete, if f have land "and whT^0”^01 dayS’ thefundus must be grasped with the whole InS y C0TPrf-ed’ should be Pushed UP in the axis of the -e nasswl 1 f ! cases the object may perhaps be attained, if two fingers jtya£d ffienfi I1® Pr0truded>^ °f 1the womb into its mouth, rards^th! bottom^"^ng-that part next the mouth and after’ ,! ™X0n] of'the womb- After the reduction is completed the he beHy^v^i^colV *i’1’ by 8lrau,^aneous rubbing and sprinkling '’A l,ave perfectly contracted, and the after-birth be ru™ retad°m: °ff (1 >1 Quiet “ «» ™pi„e posture with eeping the returned womb hpCerl)'ifthTrlT'’ ,faVOUraWe “> rom the inflammation and swelling if