RETENTION OF URINE FROM SPASM, 416 the bladder be dreaded, puncturing the bladder must be perform, without delay. 1798. In Spasmodic Retention of Urine (Ischuria Spasmodica) t neck of the bladder, and perhaps also the urethra, are narrowed at diff'ere parts, and accompanied with spasmodic contraction of the perinaeal mu cles. ’ It occurs specially in sensitive persons, in hypochondriacs, hemorrhoidal affections, in which there is often at the same time preset spasmodic contraction of the m. sphincter ani, fiom catching cold, inon nate drinking, worms, holding the water too long, and the like. TK retention is always peculiar in sometimes subsiding and again recurring it therefore has not the signs of inflammatory retention, at least in genei- they are not present, though they may at a later period accompany it. 1799. In this form of retention antispasmodic remedies are usual, employed warm applications of camomile, hyoscyamus, and the like, the perineum and region of the bladder ; rubbing in volatile ointment with opium or ol. hyoscyami; clysters of camomile, asajcetida and opiui tobacco clysters (a), lukewarm camomile hip-baths. Internally should I given Dover’s powder, or opium, with mucilaginous remedies, poll, lucopodii. According to its various causes, should be employed, in haano rhoids, sulphur, with cream of tartar; in colds, diaphoretic remedie especially camphor in proper doses ; in worms, anthelmintics; and accon ing to the fancy, unfermented drinks, calcined magnesia, with aromatic and the qIans penis to be put in cold water. 1800. If by this treatment the urine do not flow, a catheter must introduced, which always discovers a considerable obstacle at the nee of the bladder, sometimes even in the passage of the instrument in U urethra. If inflammatory accompany the spasmodic symptoms, the ant phlogistic must be added to the antispasmodic remedies. If the retentog of mine have occurred from having voluntarily retained it for a long tin in which case the symptoms are always more severe on account of greater quantity, the treatment must immediately commence vith 0 introduction of the catheter. . 1801. The retention of urine which depends on stoppage of t he _ may be produced by stones in the bladder when they be upon the inn apeDure^f that canal, or if being small, they have squeezed into it ( ) by coagulated blood (2), or thickened mucus ; by worms «h«* PJ* with the urine (3) ; by foreign bodies which have been passed out into the urethra (4). In all these cases the urethra is either con pletely closed by the foreign body, or in consequence of the irritation , spasmodic contraction which they have excited. ^*■1 [(I) Stones, if small enough to escape from the bladder, ^ rf i MS In the Museum at the College of Surgeons, there is a 'e, J T"1 j" tlu, momlirano case which occurred to John Hunter, in which a narrow stricture; in <1 ^ ,ine part of the urethra was blocked up by a very small stone, ha > and thesbo diameter; it is figured, in his work, On the Venereal Disease, (P • ..'dder in cons | notice attacked to it is, that the man “ died of a is interesting, as «1 ouence of a stricture and stone in the urethra. 1 nis pripa „ a canula ! stated cause of Hunter’s beginning to use caustic bougies, for he add., ^ M Ba.M, Henrv, On the use of Nicotiana in Retention of Urine; in Medico-Chinirg. Trans.,