532 CONSTITUENTS OF GRAVEL. in conjunction perhaps with others that will be noticed hereafter, produces a dispositic in the system to secrete neutral urine, or even the earthy phosphates. Under the; circumstances, where the urine had previously for years deposited the lithic(uric) aci chiefly in the state of crystals, these will in a great measure disappear, and instea of them, impure or imperfect lithic acid, in the shape of minute globules of varioi sizes, will be separated from the kidneys in great abundance. In most of these ease-t there is a good deal of pain in the back, and irritation about the urinary organs, eve when the concretions are only of small size. In others, there is much less irritatic under these circumstances than one could imagine. In all instances, however, this ms be considered as a most dangerous state of disease, not only from the constant llabUit of the patient to the formation of renal or vesical calculi, which all other cireuu: stances likewise conspire to render probable. But, on the other hand, from the dange there is of suddenly checking the secretion of lithic (uric) acid, which is sometime followed by great derangement of the general health, and apoplexy.” (p. 130-35.) (2) “ Crystallized sediments, composed of the phosphates, almost invariably consists says Prout, “ of the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and exist in the fori of perfectly white shining crystals.—[Note.—I have said almost invariably; for, if am not mistaken, I have once or twice seen a crystallized compound of the triph phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and the phosphate of lime. These crystals wei much larger than those of the triple phosphate, and less distinctly formed.]—This fon of disease sometimes occurs alone, but very frequently it alternates, or is accompanie by the pale-coloured lithic (uric) amorphous sediments, or the amorphous variety (I phospliatic sediment.” When the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia “abound very much, the crystallized deposit is formed before the urine is discharged from th bladder, and consequently immediately subsides to the bottom of the vessel in which is passed ; in this case, the urine is alkaline when voided: most generally, however, tk crystals do not begin to form till the urine has become cool and sometimes not till it hr begun to putrify : and these circumstanceo indicating the periods when the urine becumt alkaline, may be considered as pointing out the degree of severity of the disease. * * * . maybe also remarked that children are more subject to this form of deposit than adults' • . 1 i - 1 C ,1 x. „ ll 1 i.. ! 1 I i- (if flllU O iro Oil a circumstance perhaps to be referred to the irritability of the system at this age, an i digestive organs to which they are subject.” (p. 174-77.) the great derangement of the „ „ ... Oxalate of Lime. “ Its appearance is still more rare,” says Prout, “under the fon of crystallized gravel,” thau under that of an amorphous sediment. “ I have only see one instance of this, and am able to refer to one more. Brande states, also, that in th diathesis there is little or no sand or gravel voided.” (p. 153.) _ _ Although oxalate of lime can scarcely be said to form gravel, yet it is very m quently deposited from the urine in the form of small -flattened octohedral-shape- crystals. Indeed, as far as my own observation goes, there are very few cases c habitual disorder of the digestive functions, in which this salt cannot be detected in th urine, either alone, or as is most commonly the case, accompanied by uric acid and ur&j3 of ammonia. Persons in whom this diathesis prevails are usually of a spare Mbit with a pale countenance, and have more or less nervousness of manner about their They usually complain of a feeling of languor, and disinclination to mental or bodilp exertion, pain in the loins, and uneasiness and weight, if not of pain, in the region ( the stomach, particularly after eating; palpitation of the heart, and a capnciomi sometimes an inordinate, appetite, although a small quantity of food produces oppref sion with nausea. In general they suffer from acidity of the stomach, and are subjeo to itching and tingling of the skin, boils, and cutaneous eruptions, particularly of th scaly kind. Their urine is generally acid when first passed, and perfectly bright; o cooling, it becomes more or less turbid, from the deposit of urate of ammonia, with cry* tals of uric acid and oxalate of lime. Sometimes no deposit of urate of ammonia occur the urine remains perfectly clear ; but crystals of oxalate of lime are to be foun entangled in the mucus of the bladder, which has subsided to the bottom of the vesse- In order to detect this salt in the urine, it is merely necessary to allow the urine t stand for some hours, to pour off the greater portion of the fluid, and to place a k' drops of the remaining liquid on a glass plate beneath the microscope, using power of about 200 linear. The oxalate of lime will then, if present, be observed l the form of very regularly shaped highly flattened octohedra. If the drop of urin be allowed to evaporate to dryness, the crystals will appear as squares, with a dar in the centre, the sides of w hich face the angles of the outer square! somewhat resembling this diagram. When much urate of ammonia is lires*'n. it is well to add some boiling water to the deposit, which dissolves the ’wno of that salt, and allows the oxalate to be distinctly observed. square