854 ELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS depends partly on the moral influence of their earnest desire for the opera- tion, and partly on the less degree of traumatic reaction. Persons of san- guineous temperament who seem to superabound with health, are unla- vourable subjects for important operations. In like manner also, very stout persons of tall and strong make. Among nervous subjects a d»d tinction must be made between those who are very sensitive and excitable* and those who on the slightest cause drop into moral despondency and nervous stupidity. The former are much affected by the pain ol an operation, but on account of their easy excitability, they quickly again perk up, and are influenced by encouragement and comforting hopes, sc that their spirit is again aroused; but such is not the case with the latter, who with dull despondency and nervous stupidity allow every thing to-, affect them, and without a murmur give themselves up. Young persons bear operations better than old ones ; but even much advanced age doe. not contraindicate them; operations oftentimes do so much the better on account of the less degree of traumatic reaction. In gouty subjects ope- rations are always dangerous ; preparatory treatment, especia y P»rg g, i, necessary in such cases. It must be noted especially m scrofuto subjects, whether there be not any particular organ as the lungs tor ex- ample affected with that disease. Not unfrequent y after the removal a diseased part, scrofula breaks forth in the internal organs (a). 2587. From the circumstances already referred to, it may be most part ascertained under what circumstances it is nece^ry to prepaj^ a patient specially for an operation, as according to his dlffere"t such remedies must be previously employed, as either counte[‘ -bi]ftv neral disease, raise the patient’s powers, or lower the “creased se . • or by artificial evacuations, by issues and the like, ren ' «. the operation more cafe viy robust, full-bloo ed person,isboo djor some time previously be put on spare diet; and bloodletting h to if the general condition should seem to require it. , cj,a. 2588. The practitioner must determine, according to. the patie^ ^ racter, whether he may venture to make him acquain . fhim-' I immediate circumstances of the operation, or conceal[them fig, J With sensitive persons he must go very cautiously t0 '™ > ^ j sympathizing carriage and encouragement, are often exce^mg^ d in I tageous. Great sensibility must be somewhat rePre^r\yhe°^era’tion a* , such persons small doses of opium before and eai required. ., _ bdofdfl [As a general rule, the administration of opium or any .e^j often impossible I or after an operation should be carefully avoided, as it « d.ffic,^ Ontofcon- | to distinguish between the effects of the medicine and the sy “P‘01“SP"opium to * stitutional excitement. Persons who have been long in the habit ^ g ^ but , alleviate their pain,shmU not be■ can he diminished,or comply :r?l ('si ini lilt Kit hi: lib liib If-- j ■' In ^1; r alleviate their pain, should not be deprived oi h eiiuci diminished, or complete1) great care should be taken to watch the period when it can be dimmisheo f withdrawn without disadvantage to the patient; and beyond all doubt ui , quemUy be done^reatly to his benefit much more Many persons who have for a length of time suffered the aeroc.^ l. It Li nf the cartilages of a joint, and not known an hour s rest other opia,e ouiet^ t^a oui sleep the first night after the removal of the limb, ^and^ n ^ no (a) Wabobop, Lectures on Surgery; in Lancet. 1832-33; vol. ii. P- 51