MEDULLARY FUNGUS. 716 even swelling, at first firm, though not hard, and over which the skin unchanged. As it enlarges the tumour becomes more elastic, and some times gives an illusive feel of fluctuation. The skin covering the swellin gradually becomes thinner, adheres to the tumour, and at last bursting, bloody ichor, escapes; through this hole in the destroyed skin a reddis fungous substance pushes up, continues increasing, and being girt by th round opening of the skin, the edges of which continue thick and unalterec a longish neck is-produced. This fungous growth bleeds on the slightes touch, and by the spontaneous tearing through of the numerous vessels j which pass to its surface, frequent bleedings are caused. Often pieces o ! the tumour are thrown off, and then exceedingly stinking grayish icho: escapes in large quantity. [Dr. Thomas Young (a) has included under his genus Carcinoma, or Cancer, “ai uneven tumour, with sharp lancinating pains, tending to ulceration;” two species “ C. scirrhosum, Hard Cancer, and C. spongiosum, spongy and readily bleeding Bleeding Cancer” (p. 346); the latter of which is the disease now to be treated of English writers have, however, generally, with the exception of Travers and'Cars well, and more recently Walshe, described and held them as different diseases. “ We may consider,” observes Travers, “ Carcinoma as a genus of the order ‘ malignant diseases.’ Its species are first the scirrhous, second the medullary. Tbeii respective modifications and varieties are to be referred to those of structure.’ (p. 200.) Carsweee says:—“ In the genus Carcinoma I propose to comprehend those diseases.' which have been termed scirrhous ; common vascular or organized sarcoma; pancreatic: mammary, and medullary sarcoma, and Fungus hcematodes. The following reasons may be assigned for thus grouping together, under the generic term of Carcinoma, so man) diseases generally described as differing widely from that which is commonly known by this designation :—First. They often present, in the early periods of their formation, cer- tain characters common to all of them, however much they may differ from each other in the subsequent periods. Secondly. They all terminate in the gradual destruction or transformation of the tissues which they affect. Third. They have all a tendency to affect several organs in the same individual. Fourth. They all possess, although in various degrees, the same reproductive 'character. Such are the more remarkable phe- nomena which, considered anatomically, and in a general point of view these diseases- present in common with one another. * * * More in detail. * * * They present differences, some of which are of considerable importance, others much less so. * * The differences to which I allude, are referable to two states of heterologous deposit, to which the diseases in question owe their origin. The first is that in which this deptw ' has little or no tendency to become organized. Its form and arrangement appear to tie determined chiefly by external circumstances; and its formation and subsequent liicreMei are entirely dependent on the nutritive function of the organ in which it is eontain • In the second state this deposit exhibits on the contrary a greater or less tendency io become organized. Although it may, at first, assume a determinate form and arrM^J* ment, in consequence of the influence of external circumstances, it possesses , 'j properties by means of which its subsequent arrangement and development are 3 ’ independent of the nutritive function of the organ in which it is formed, cxcep * far as the materials of its growth may be derived from this source. On account, toere- fore, of these two opposite states of the Heterologous Deposit, Carcinoma may be < . into two species, the first of which I shall call Scirrhoma, the second ( cpnalo ■ ^ * * * In these two species of carcinoma, the Heterologous Deposit presents i__ under various forms which may he regarded as so many varieties of each fpycies', __ varieties of scirrhoma are determined chiefly by the relati ve quantity of the Hctero og> Deposit, the manner in which it is distributed, and the difference of colour and cons's , ’’;h it presents. * * * The principal varieties of cephaloma (medullary derived from the appearances which the heterologous deposit present, ei pr At* of rliffnrnnf cf a true itc rl nvol rmm PTl t M HR tVlfi COTflttiOtl r QSCH ’ different organs or at different stages of its development, as the coranon 1 « „ Oraanized Sarcoma, of Abernethy ; Ins Mammary Sarcoma and Medullary (the latter being the Maticre Cerebriforme, or Enccphaloide, of Laennec; the p 9 . Inflammation of Burns; the MM-llkc Tumour of Dr. Monro; the Soft Cancer^ l«: („) An Introduction to I (23. 9vo. Second .Edition. to Medical Literature, including a System of Practical Nosology.