[ 300 ] HI. OF HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. Haemorrhoids, Lat.; Hcemorrhoidalgeschwulste, Germ.; H&norrholdes, Fr. Theden, Chirurgische Wahrnehmungen, vol. i. p. 56. Richter, Anfungsgriinde, vol. vi. p. 393. Abernethy, Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 231. New Edition. 181.). Kirby, J., Observations on tlie Treatment of certain severe forms of Hemorrhoids s Excrescence. Dublin, 1823. 8vo 1 i Copeland, T., Observations on the principal Diseases of the Rectum and Anus Loudon, 1814. 8vo. Whyte, W., Observations on Strictures of the Rectum and other Affections, et Third Edit. Bath, 1820. 8vo. Howship J., Practical Observations on the symptoms, discrimination, and m-atmo , of the most common Diseases of the Lower Intestines and Anus, etc. London, J8^» 8vo. i-J Dupuytren, De l’Excisiou des Bourrelets He'morrhoidaux; in Lemons Orales i Chirurgie Clinique, vol. i. p. 339. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, On Haemorrhoids; in London Medical Gazette, voL r 1835. J Bushe, George, M. D., A Treatise on the Malformations, Injuries, and Dise»f of the Rectum and Anus. New York, 1837. 8vo. Syme, James, On the Diseases of the Rectum. Edinburgh, 1838. 8vo. 1542. Hemorrhoids or Piles are varicose expansions of the veins inti lower part of the rectum, in which, by the collection of blood in the vessels, unnatural bags and sacs of different size, fiom that of a peat that of a walnut, are produced. These swellings are commonly calkA blind piles, (Hcemorrhoides ccecce,) to distinguish them from flowing^ (Hcemorrhoides fiuentes, apertce)-, they swell periodically, and as?, become lax, so that only the empty bags remain. If they have consul** able size, they are called sac piles (Hcemorrhoides saccate) ; it sma;, tubercular piles (Tubercula hcemorrhoidalia.) The blood coagulates .) the sacs often into a hard mass, so that a firm swelling is formed. Only when these swellings are not very large, may they be formed simply by exp sion of the walls of the veins; but if they be of greater size, the blood is poured;. beneath the inner coat of the rectum, and expands it into a sac; hence the large « which the swellings often attain. It often happens that in cutting them off little or bleeding occurs, and it is then distinctly perceived that they consist only » They have also frequently a peculiar form, which yarn cannot so e i ) 1 This is proved, especially by Kirby’s careful observations, viz., that these exc do not consist of expanded veins, but of a sac-like lengthening of the thi^enesl ^ tissue, surrounded with some veins, and covered with the integuments of the tissue, surrounded with some veins, and covered with the integuments of the foldedmn . of the anus. The veins are branches of the internal iliac In every case of .mm piles the structure was the same, but the veins appeared wider, and were of the tremorrhoidal vein. Brodie, on the contrary, asserts that ln al! found the luemorrhoidal knots only as expanded veins. In those of mge more indeed than simple expansion of the veins is found, as there is effusion of J® and thickening in the neighbourhood of the expanded vein. 1543. These swellings are often seated on the outer edge of the or on the inside of the rectum, in the region of the m. sphincter 1544. The consequences resulting from piles are, suppuration, discharges of mucus from the rectum, and cornu f bleeding. If these swellings attain a large size, if, on going • ( the piles within the rectum be protruded, they are often grasped j