649 ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE. ■ or less distinctly cellular; they contain a fluid of various consistence, and unenclosed in differently-shaped cells; at first they are harder than in the ■subsequent periods of their development, and then are for the most part x;< harder than the organs in which they are met with, in which case they 1$soften, and are converted into a fluid, or into a substance of looser tex- ture. Their form is for the most part more or less round ; they strive to u lestroy the neighbouring parts, and the organism which are drawn into n :he same diseased structure, or displaced by pressure, and further pro- [jj.oagate the diseased affection by the lymphatic vessels, and perhaps also’in Bother ways. I.—OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE. y Prolapsus Lingua, Macroglossa, Lat.; Vorfall der Zunge, Germ.; Hypertrophie de la Langue, Fr.) Clanny, W. R., M.D.; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. i. p. 317. ,805. 5 von Siebold, C., Beobachtnng iiber die Yerkiirzung widematiirlich zu grosser ■ &unge; in Chiron, vol. i. p. 651. Klein, Beobachtung einer durch Abschneidung abgekiirzten verlangerten Zunge; flfen Chiron, vol. i. p. 665. Percy, Article Langue (Pathologie Chirurgicale) ; in Diet, des Sciences Medicales, tiv i ol. xvii. p. 244. Mirault ; in Memoires de la Societe de Medecine de Montpellier, 1816, part iv. p. 517. van Doeveren, H. H., Dissert, de Macroglossa, seu Linguae enormitate. Lugd. , datav., 1824; cum tabulis duobus. 8vo. 2156. If the tongue increase very much in bulk it protrudes over the >f aw, and can only be brought back into the mouth with difficulty, or not ■ ’tall. This evil is generally congenital; but the enlargement of the w ongue is not at first considerable. Its fore part appears only between ; :he lips, it projects in a mass as it enlarges over the lower lip and “ lw> and causes great deformity. By the hanging down of the fore part 1 f the tongue the swelling becomes larger, the tongue-bone and larynx nfre drawn forwards; there is great difficulty in swallowing, the spittle ' sows out, and from the constant dryness of the throat, swallowing etecomes still more difficult. The articulation of the voice is greatly hindered ; and when the disease has long continued, the muscles of the rufongue are in a palsied state. By the continued position of the tongue > *etween the jaws the circulation is stopped in the protruded part, °he biJngue swells more considerably, and presses the teeth and the alveolar * 'rocess of the lower jaw outwards ; by the constant rubbing of the tongue •‘dentations and excoriations are produced ; the constant exposure of 'the >» rotruded part to the air causes clefts and chinks, and often deep ulcer- hons ; and the papilla? become unnaturally thick and prominent. I 215 <• The enlargement of the tongue takes place either a shorter or a jnger time after birth, or after cutting the second set of teeth, and frequently preceded by convulsions, and its cause seems to be palsy of Jfie muscles of the tongue. In such cases the incisive and cuspid teeth ire not pushed forwards, but are rendered useless, and fall out by the instant rubbing of the tongue (a). jm*ntrno;^,*arf.^nieni *?le to,16u<! above mentioned must, be distinguished from that ndsfw'i" depends on inflammatory swelling, and from tumours of various nns developed in the tongue. 1 Borta, Traitc des Maladies Cliirurgicales et des Operations qui leur convicnncnt, vol. vi. p. 385.