AT THE HIP, WITH SINGLE FLAP. 935 Moore’s compressor; the skin is then to be divided with a circular cut, three or four fingers’ breadth below the trochanter, and after having been moderately drawn back by an assistant, his leaf-knife (Blcittmesser) is to be placed as deeply as possible on the outer side close to the edge of the retracted skin, the leaf sunk obliquely to the trochanter, drawn over the front to the inner side, so that its edge runs along tire neck close to the thigh-bone, and the cut completed in the usual way. If large ves- sels bleed which cannot be compressed by the assistant, they must be tied if not too close to the middle of the wound. The muscles are now drawn up by an assistant, and the fleshy parts first divided on the outside to the very point of the trochanter, with the blade of the leaf-knife kept directly upwards. An assistant now turns the knee outwards, the muscles are di\ ided on the inner side with the blade of the leaf knife directed upwards till the edge of the hip-socket appears. The transverse ligament is then divided with the edge of the knife held rather obliquely, and whilst the assistant rolls the head of the bone inwards and upwards, placing one hand below the trochanter, and the other on the inside of the knee, the operator pressing the knife firmly cuts through the capsular ligament on the inside. The assistant now carries the thigh far outwards till it forms a right angle with the side of the body, and the operator with one smart stroke cuts through the outer under part of the capsular ligament and the muscles still attached in this region, by which the head of the bone is completely freed. After stanching the blood, the wound is to be brought together obliquely with two sutures and strips of sticking plaster. h. The Flap Cut. * With a single flap. 2748. The operation of exarticulation with one flup is variously per- formed, according as it is a hinder (Puthod, Bryce) ; an inner (L’Alou- ette, Delpech, Lenoir, Langenbeck) ; a front (Peantade, Manec) or an outer flap. ' 2749. According to Puthod, the femoral artery having been first tied, the patient laid on his side and properly held, and the skin drawn upwards by an assistant, a transverse semicircular cut is to be made through the skin, beginning on the inner hinder part of the thio-h and ending at the great trochanter. After drawing the skin back the tendon ot the 77i. glutceus maximus is cut through, and by carry in o- the knife lalong the trochanter all the muscles there inserted are divided. The lukuife is now to be thrust into the joint below the tendon of the m. qracilis hand the capsular ligament cut across ; after which the thigh is drawn ^upwards and inwards so that the head of the bone may project outwards hand upwards, and then the stretched round ligament is cut through and a he division of the capsular ligament completed. The muscles of the iihinder inner side of the thigh are now divided, four or five fingers’ b/ead h fe ssrruZlxS-musc,es on the i,,sWe al t,re iop i"8 of proceeding. After tying the femoral ■mo render the m m , HS . )e ,y’ aml, th? thlSh drawn somewhat inwards ‘eoreadth below the tr,rh„ / 116 8kln, ( rawn hack, and cut through three fingers' o :ut off at the trochanter • the knffe f^th^' been tU[nwl back> the m- 9luta'i are ■vhich is raised im A.. knJfV 18 tben. carried outwards to make one flap of flesh ; P> < he cut being continued quite down to the joint, and the head ()• mb, above cited. (6) Anweisung zu Chirurg. Operationen, p. 236.