Second Section.—OF ANEURYSM IN PARTICULAR. X. of ANEURYSM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES. 1434. Aneurysm of the carotid artery is usually situated at its bifur- cation it has, however, been noticed on various parts of its common trunk, near its origin, and on its branches, the ophthalmic, temporal, and others. The diagnosis rests on the general symptoms which characterize aneurysm; with which it is also to be remarked that the aneurysm does not move in swallowing, like pulsating swellings of other kinds, in the neck, ■ which, for the most part, are connected with the thyroid gland. Besides, - it is generally accompanied with violent tearing pain in the entire half of the head, beating in the head, sudden loss of recollection, and, according to the different seat and size of the aneurysm, difficulty in breathing. Bukns (a) has often felt an enlargement of the common carotid, and of the root of the internal carotid, after death and twice during life, forming a swelling as large as a filbert nut, which caused no pain. I have noticed such an expansion m a strong young man, upon the bifurcation of the carotid, which arose after violent exertion; excepUng a violent beating it was unaccompanied with any inconvenience, and did not increase for several ‘vears Syme, J. (6), observed a case of aneurysm of the internal carotid artery, which formed a pulsatory swelling in the throat; and, from its situation, resembled an abscess in the tonsil. Tying the carotid artery did not stop the pulsation, and the patient died. _ 3 1435. Tyino- the carotid artery is the only remedy which can be employed in aneurysm of that vessel, if the seat and size of the swelKjM especially permit. J Acrel (cl has restored the artery in an expansion {Anmrysma verurn) of the trgj| of die carotid artery, by gradual and strong compression as the place permitted, after, four or five months, to its natural stiength. 1436 Numerous observations have proved that, after tying the common trunk of the carotid artery, the brain is sufficiently supplied with blood,; and that no disturbance of its functions ensue. Besides the numerous small anastomoses, the carotids of both sides communicate, and thei verte- bral arteries, by large inosculations in the region of the celbdar smus^ of the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, the falx, and the hah esot the cerebellum, but especially by one peculiar branch from the The vertebral arteries at the same time assume the function of collateral t) ran c 1igs • Tying the carotid artery (previously undertaken by Abernethy (1) and Lykh£ wounds? was first and afterwards frequently performed for aneurysm byAsBg Cooper (d). Macgill(c), in the space of one month, tied both ear -ind the tumours of both eyes. Several months after the operation, the patient was. swellingshad subsided. Musset (/) tied both carotids at an interval of six weeks, account of inosculating arterial swellings, and the case recovered. f uebes- (a) Observations on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. p. 163. eau »nn iioi-.a. p. , (b) London and Edinburgh MonUily Journal of Med. Science, Nov. 1842. [ueu. onion™, fel Ohirurgische Vorfalle, vol. t. P- Jo - bn Account of the First Successful Operation performed on the common Carotid Artery for Aneu- rysm, in the year 1808, with thepottj nation ; in Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. 1. P- Ja(«) New York Medical and Physical .lo«o>*1- " (/) American Journal of Medic. Sciences, cob p. 31C.