[ 850 ] SEVENTH DIVISION. SUPERFLUITY OF ORGANIC PARTS. 2572. To this division belong few subjects, to wit, first, supernumera^T fingers and toes ; secondly, supernumerary teeth; and, thirdly, doubled^ teeth. 15 il [lit St pBl I.—OF SUPERNUMERARY FINGERS AND TOES. 2573. Supernumerary Fingers occur under two different forms. The supernumerary finger is either articulated with the metacarpal bone of the Zmb of the foref or of the little finger; it resembles the other fingers n form, but is not provided with proper motive organs; and bj ite g««h interferes with the motions of the neighbouring fingers. Or, it ^ not merely a supernumerary finger, but there is also a supernumerarj * carpal bone, and the finger has its perfect organization and mobility. Ih TSiltiSSSa of the supernumerary finger by » J : iointino- it from its connexion with the metacarpal bone is indicated. 1 thesecond, disjointing the finger is of no use as regards the deform, y . >b metaca°pai hone must also be removed. Such finger may be useful b) its free motion and perfect organization. 0 bus; teth lid! t;. liftr lath km i Ot II.—OF SUPERNUMERARY TEETH. ■ 2575. Two conditions are observed with respect to these. Either a nf ^ tooth remains firm, and that which should have its place grows in ^ other three,ion, anti penetrates through either the outer or surface^ the alveolar process; or, in consequence of,f3Xtee?h sSt*Ur I extension of the alveolar process and the breadth of the te D 8 of the ■ project, either obliquely or thrust through the fore or lund ja t alveolar process. In the former case the unnatural direct o ot tr.^ ^ tooth does not seem to depend always upon the obstruction tooth, as it is often observed when the milk-teeth loosen. . con_ 2576. Teeth standing irregularly, cause, in ^^L^oimue^d produce , siderable deformity, thrust out the lips, or irritate the tongue, an^ j ulceration. It is usually advised to draw those milk-teeth .J^ thejr the proper development of the second teeth and to bring ie ‘ . which place by pressure. But that this should succeed, the u„na- separates the milk-tooth from the other must not be toQfh n0t t tural direction not very great and the bread th. 1 ; and the first excessive in proportion to that of the first. If tins be tne tooth be quite firm, it is better to pull out the wrong die case, a..u - d standing tooth, to retain the milk-tooth.