CUTTING INTO THE PEIIINJEUM. 428 preferable, as being accompanied with much less danger of forming falx passages and tearing the urethra. Under all other circumstances, if tin symptoms be pressing, puncture of the bladder deserves undoubted pre- ference. Upon breaking through the stricture, the following may be compared Desault above cited, p. 244.—Roux, Relation d’un Voyage fait a Londres, etc., p. 314. 1815— Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. ix. p. 232.—Cross, Sketches of thri Medical Schools of Paris.—Charles Bell, above cited, p. 148.—Ducamp, above cited, p. 79.—Mayor, Sur le Cathe'terisme simple et force', etc. Paris, 1836. Secon... Edition.—A. Vidal de Cassis, Lettre chirurgicale a M. Mayor. Paris, 1836- Mayor, Sur le Catheterisme, en reponse a une Lettre chirurgicale de M. Vidal. Pari; et Geneve, 1836.—Principes fondamentaux du Catheterisme ; in Gazette Me'dicale vol. vii. p. 353. 1839. Of Cutting into the Urethra in the Perinccum. In retention of urine caused by stricture Eckstrom (a) has proposed a less dan gerous method of effecting puncture of the bladder, and has pursued it with happy results. After the patient has been placed as in the operation for the stone, a gmn- elastic catheter is carried down to the stricture, and held firmly by an assistant, who a the same time, when the stricture is behind the scrotum, as is usually the case, lifts th< scrotum up and stretches the skin of the perinaum. The Surgeon, with a pointed bistoury then makes, nearly the length of the raphe, and in the direction given by the sound, a cu an inch and a half long through the skin, lays bare the urethra, that the course ofthtf sound and its extremity can be traced. The patient is then desired to strain for the purpost of making water, by doing which, the urethra behind the stricture is distended and harmi a cutis now made into the urethra towards the sound, and the opening thus produced i enlarged to and through the stricture and sometimes behind it. The point of the fore' finger of the left hand must never for a moment during this operation leave the point o the knife, but must serve as a director. The urine now springs out with violence, am the bladder is emptied ; but if this do not readily happen, on account of the palsy o the organ from distension, a female catheter must be introduced into the wound, by the; aid of which, the tapping is effected. If no severe symptoms of inflammation oi< irritation exist, which however, is very commonly the case, a common silver catbetei No 6 is to be introduced into the bladder. When its extremity readies the wound: that is the spot where the stricture was, it must be continued deeper, the finger m tin wound' giving it the proper direction, so that it may not slip from the urethra, but gtj directlv into the bladder. When this has been once effected, and the instrument ha. Jeen left L the bladder two to four hours, there is no fear of the least difficulty in W re-introduction, and a flexible catheter of the same size may be used instead of the former, the wound is bound up with lint, or a compress, dipped in cold «ter> » ^ and it usually heals quickly. For the purpose of getting rid of theexistmgstT.cture. catheters of large size must soon be resorted to, but there must not be too ' especially before the wound has healed. On the other hand, should there be tory symptoms present, the introduction of the catheter must be stayed, in order not t increase the irritation. The wound in the perinaum keeps open bj the escape o urine, and suppurates more or less. Afterwards, the above treatment must ployed (1). ,, , • Jameson’s (6) treatment also resembles this. _itj, Lallemand and Begin (c) object to this operation the difficulty of find.ng wim certainty and cutting through the urethra behind the bulb, especially in flit P*1-*?”*' • . the uncertainty of the true condition of the canal of the urethra, and of the point behind which it must be opened. ... • fnr lYU) I leave Eciistrom’s description of the mode of cutting into the pertiwn retention of urine, just as Chelics has given it, for it cannot be better described, must deprive him of the credit of having proposed this mode of treatment. 1 o nij o knowledge, it has been for more than thirty years the common prachce.excephngAh^ a silver instead of an elastic catheter is first introduced down to the strictur fcti,05€ in St Thomas’s and Guy’s Hospitals, and among the Surgeons brought P in st. ltwST„;;« snent with us some twenty-five ye*^ lomas’s ana Uuy s nospitais, anu among five rears schools. In the many months which Eckstrom spent with us some twei y ) the since, be must have seen this ecr, operation perfonned again and_n«n ^ “ Froriep’s Notizen, vol* xviii. p. 155. 1827. JO Medical Recorder, vol. vii. I’^Ateve Cite.l,r. 3* p. 329.—Lkgsr; in Ischuria Peri nasi. Paris, l/«8. C . Dissert, de l’amcentcsi l retlir*