525 DIVISION OF. m downwards, and coated inside and out with what proved to be triple phosphate. An I attempt was made to extract it whole by the application of large-bladed stone-forceps, I hut the pot was so closely impacted by the swelling of the external parts, that only one 4 blade could be introduced. It was therefore broken with strong forceps, and removed i piecemeal with difficulty. The finger being then introduced into the vagina, a large j| aperture was found into the bladder, in which was a large stone. As she was much jffi exhausted, the removal of the stone was deferred for a few days, and then removed by 1 enlarging the aperture. In the course of a few weeks she was able to retain four ii ounces of urine in the bladder which she had not been able to do for many years. (4) In the College Museum is an example, H. a. 14, of a pin, which had been swal- !,] lowed five years, forming the nucleus of stone in a young man of twenty-two years of I jge, which had caused symptoms only the latter two years. It was removed by the Wf lithotritic operation. >’ (5) Astley Cooper mentions a case in which, having removed a triple phosphate stone, in1 the disease returned, and he again performed the operation, and found a large coagu- iumof blood in the bladder surrounded by a triple phosphate deposit” (a). In the ^'College Museum there is a stone II. a. 7, “ consisting of uric acid, deposited upon a W* hollow crust or shell of impure oxalate of lime. This crust was most probably formed ii upon a clot of blood, which has afterwards shrunk” (6).] 2003. Urinary stones are divided according to their situation, the mode Kiiin which they arise in the urinary passages, according to their external ^differences, and according to their chemical composition. 2004. According to the situation where they are found stones are dis- Btinguished as— a. Renal Stones Calculi renales Nierensteine. Vl TTvoiOMn yi/j /I W/V/»i/n 7/m / /vhm ;; cavity, or are connected with them. 2005. The external characters of stones are very different, and a divi- t cion founded upon sucli difference is only so far of value as it gives some- ft :imes a clue to their internal chemical composition. Their structure is aimore or less solid, granular, sandy, chalk-like, crystallized, friable, fjjorittle ; their surface is smooth, tubercular, mulberry-like ; their interior (Jipompact, homogeneous, laminated, consisting of various layers. The 11 ayers usually show mixed and varied colours, as gray, white, reddish- ®|fellow, brown, black, violet, and so on. The middle or nucleus (Kern, ■perm.; Noyau, Fr.) of the stone is formed either of a foreign body or l|oonsists of one of the substances already mentioned {par. 1988.) ktones composed of uric acid have a brownish or yellowish colour, a O.miooth, but sometimes tubercular surface, a radiated fibrous fracture, f,<ind mostly an oval or flattened form ; when cut through, they are gene- rally found made up of concentric layers. 14 tones formed of urate oj ammonia have nearly the same figure as 1 . ose of uric acid, but have a milk and coffee colour; they are composed ) concentric layers; their fracture is very close and similar to that of a > fiiard chalk stone. I Midberry stones, however complicated they may be, contain in their v;nucleus or in their layers oxalate of lime (1). Their colour is dark brown, Kipproacliing to black; they are hard, when cut through present an im- jy cr ectly lamellated structure ; they rarely exceed a moderate size. If in I 00 Surgical Lectures, vol. ii. p. 242. (6) Taylor's Catalogue, part i. p. 65.