569 TREATMENT PREVIOUS TO OPERATION. | powers are very low sunk, and there lias been previous wasting fever ; in | o-reat enlargement of the stone ; and, finally, in its being completely e, encysted. The operation must be deferred if there be any accidental or i passing disease, if great inflammation of the bladder and its neck, if T much sympathetic irritation of the digestive organs, continued uneasi- , ness, vomiting, and the like, as also if there be stricture of the urethra, i until the passage be restored. The circumstances which contraindicate cutting for the stone require close and careful consideration, as experience frequently shows that, even under the most un- favourable circumstances the operation is successful, and that with the removal of the stone, the symptoms depending on its presence, as for example, the chronic inflamma- tory affection of the bladder, cease. If it be well ascertained that the stone is p encysted, it being perfectly so, must decidedly contraindicate the operation, as in most ■ cases it is impossible to set such stone free, or the case may terminate fatally. An enormously large stone can only be considered as contraindicating one special mode of operation. Cases may occur, though very seldom, in which, though the presence of a stone in the bladder is proved by sounding, few or no symptoms occur; its enlargement , , is very gradual, and the operation does not seem to be necessary. It is always, how- f, ever, to be feared, that in deferring the operation till the appearance of symptoms ; which require it, such changes may accrue as will render its result doubtful. This especially applies to young persons ; as, on the contrary, in old persons, the operation : must be considered to be contraindicated (1). [(1) “ I he age of the patient,” says Astlev Cooper, “does not much influence the result of the operation, with the exception I shall mention. Old age is not to be a bar to it if, so far as the stone will permit, the patient he active and have no other com- plaints. Mr. Cline, senior, operated successfully upon a patient at eighty-two; Mr. Attenburrow, of Nottingham (2), at a still more advanced age. I operated on a gentle- man aged seventy-six, and he died about ten years after. About sixty years of age is fthe period at which stone is most frequent in the adult, and then the operation is very ^•successful. In the middle period of life, fever is more violent from the operation, and »fthe patient is often too much loaded with fat to be submitted to it. Fat persons do not ® fondly fiear operations well; they have little vital power; they should be reduced “b by diet and medicine ; and they must be accustomed to irritation of the bladder, by Ifne frequent introduction of the sound; but still they have more fever and disposition r i:o peritonaea} inflammation than at a later period of life. The age at which there is ! f?ast dauger is from three to twenty, for death is then a very rare occurrence. Under joi neage two years, children often become convulsed, and die from the operation, on 11 recount of their excessive irritability.” (pp. 244, 45.) Ij. I*1® son hiforms me that this patient was eighty-five years old; and that his ather had also operated on a man of eighty-seven, who lived to the age of ninety-five, the earliest age at which I have known the operation for stone performed with suc- • -jess was twelve months, in two instances successfully by Keate, at St George s Hospital ff0HN Hunter operated on a child of eighteen months, but the result is not stated I £ -iave recently cut a child of twenty months, but he died on the fourteenth day of peri- ' K!?1 iniammatlT’ accompanied with small abscesses in the immediate neighbour- ’ 7U C7IAJ7(a) haS’ however- collated many instances of infants A ll w °ne’ °ne °f wh,ch was cut at ten weeks, but with what result is not stated. ' nan^r/fi! PUrS°nS n?,t VeJ7 fav.°urable subjects for stone-operations, yet with I ime S Lhey ma^ d° W- ' ,My fnend Green cut a man about fifty, who a short t f £°re 7 operation weighed eighteen stone, but had been reduced, and the girth rir „v T;U wos ueaHy two yards He did well of the operation, but stone 3 Irane of the MadLn-JF s!]' ’ ^ inflammation of the mucous niem- l 2059. If the stone-patient’s health be otherwise good and his mode of * iving regular, it will be sufficient preparation for the operation to dimi- 1J mi, a tew days previously, the ordinary quantity of his diet, to bathe m sevend times in lukewarm water, and for the two immediately pre- _ • days to restrict his diet further, and to give clysters. In full- 1 11 persons, one or two bleedings should be resorted to ; in liamior- («) Traitc, above cited, p. 506.