ANEURYSM OF BONES. 275 landed to a great extent, they, to wit, the temporal, occipital, and other fflrteries, have been severally tied, but their manifold anastomoses have in ich cases nearly always soon produced a relapse, even when continued ressure has been kept up on the swelling. Tying the principal trunk, ie branches of which are expanded, is in such cases always the most ivisable, although experience also shows that even therewith a relapse equently ensues; in which case the swelling subsides only for a short me, but soon arises again, and increases, together with the pulsation lused by the introduced collateral circulation. After tying the principal unk it is therefore always advisable to employ, a corresponding antiphlo- gistic treatment, cold applications and pressure (2). If the disease occur i the limbs, and in such degree that the modes of treatment recom- ended are inapplicable or ineffectual, amputation of the limb is the only >medy, but it rarely has a satisfactory issue. (}) Graefe, in the largest pulsating swellings, made a long and deep cut, imme- ately pressed down firmly a large sponge, and, before the blood could escape, quickly iplied a soft agaric between the edges of the wound, covered the whole with a sponge an ch thick, and confined it with strips of sticking plaster laid cross-ways and a circular indage. The result was favourable (?) Travers (a), Dalrymple (b), and Wardrop (c) have, in such aneurysms in the bit, tied the carotid artery with, success, which is accounted for by the smaller and ss numerous anastomoses. Rogers (d) cured] an aneurysm by anastomosis of the ex- •nal maxillary artery by tying the carotid. On the contrary, Dupuytren (e) tied e carotid on account of such swelling situated on the ear and region of the occiput, for fich compression and tying of the temporal, auricular, and occipital arteries had been karformed without success; the swelling diminished, the pulsation ceased, but it re- 4 rned about the seventeenth day, and continued, only less strong than before, in spite ru a compressing apparatus. Mussey (/) tied both carotids, on account of such swell- r(j » upon the crown of the head, with little benefit, as the pulsation recurred four weeks ss :er the second tying; and in the extirpation which was performed two quarts of blood a: ire lost, and forty vessels tied. With equally various result was the carotid tied, jl Iupuytren.) I have seen one case, where the femoral artery was tied without ii nefit, and amputation of the thigh became necessary. ) 1500. With branching aneurysm in the soft parts, those swellings which 1 spend on similar diseased changes of the arteries in bones, actually 'ree> and are therefore distinguished by Breschet as Aneurysm of the v teries of bones, and by Scarpa as Aneurysms by anastomosis of bones. ’a Pears°n (fiO communicated the first observations on such swellings, and after him / arpa (Ji) More recently Lali.ejiand has made known a similar observation • and 1 ieschet (i) has added remarks, as well as historical inquiries upon the existence of 1 5a*es. lrl the earlier writers, with several observations by Dupuytren. arpa (j) also has subjected this disease to a special inquiry. jf 1501. frequently, from sudden and undiscernible causes, often a shorter ' Jon"er time after the operation of any external violence, more or CSS severe pain occurs upon some one spot of a bone, most frequently in f ® '^ghbourhood of the joint-ends of tubular bones, which, when the i lent is quiet, diminishes, or even for a time subsides ; but then returns severely. A swelling appears, the veins of the whole limb swell • t pain sPreads over the entire limb, which has a bluish-red colour. S??,‘Chjr. Trans, vol. ii. p. ]. 2B7 ’’ V°Ux- P- 203; and Lancet, vol. xii. S'J) Medical Communications, vol. ii. London, of Medicai sdence-vo1- 1790; p. 95. (A) On Aneurysm above cited, p. 478. . -rf *000, :4fwec ?rvo1'vm-p- iig-bbe- 1./1 Iilnrlnn Af... 1; 1 . J' f\ r 1 lcu> P* J 1 London Medical Gazette, vol. vi. p. “fi. f •. : .. ~ r “VS mw-ius ues us. ruT18 (Jj Annali Universali di Medioina. May, June, 1830 (O Observation sur une Tumeur Aneurismale, accompagnee de circonstances insolites, par M. Lallemand, suivie des observations et des re- flexions sur des tumeurs sanguines d’un caractere equivoque, qui paraissent etre des Aneurysmes des Arteresdes Os. Paris, 1827. 4to T 2