CAUTERIZATION BY THE MOXA. 882 - round, y. prismatic or hatchet-shaped. The conical iron is specially used where one particular small part is to be acted on, for instance in bleed- ings ; the round, where the effect is to be greater and a permanent issue is to be formed ; the prismatic or hatchet shaped, for quickly passing over any part. If the actual cautery be used in any one cavity, or without subjecting the neighbouring parts to the effect of the fire, either a conical i iron with a sheath must be employed or a red-hot trocar, which is to be carried to the part required in its own sheath. 2665 When the actual cautery is made use of, special care must be-, taken that the patient be held fast; and the part to which it is applied must be carefully dried, and if hairy the hairs must be removed The. iron should be white-hot. When the object is to destroy a part, to stanch a bleeding, or to form an issue, it must be applied efficiently and presswi- down with requisite force. If the iron cool and the object be yet uuat- tained, a second white-hot iron must be applied If the cauterJ b®ap^: in stripes, the stripes should be first marked should not go fiomtbe same, fe noint should not cross, should be an inch and a half to three inches.: asunder, and the white-hot prismatic or hatchet-shaped non should ta carried in the direction of these stripes with due care ovct the skin he cause it very easily slips from the proper direction. Kmn s double, cautery iron much facilitates this operation. The parts to he avoided in applying either the Ml> St be skull, where covered only by the f *""“,wbe bfjSgaW »the applied here above a couple of seconds, of the nose the eyelids, the course membranes of the brain and the brain itse , » ^ Jhite line of the of thp larynx and windpipe, the breast-bone, the breast glands, . . „i,ere dreaded (a). . . 2666. After the actual cautery has been applied, the par mus vered with lint, dry and spread with some simple ointment, following be ve’ry severe, it may be relieved with anodyne aPP1^^ ^ mtient must be kept quiet, and according to circumstances, take 1 Sor narcoUc medicines. When the slough separates thei *»PI>U£$ part must be dressed with ointment which will W0,noff 1‘f suppuration must be kept up as the case requires. off of the slougl hav e been made on account of bleeding, the early dropping oil of S must be carefully avoided. , i. frK,p,i,pr witli a linei 2667. The Moxa is a cylinder of cotton held^ or smalle bandage and a few stitches, about an inch high, andof large Hfld extent, according to the condition of the part o w . . 0 tighth and the effect it should produce. The cotton must "°‘g(hi compressed, and the part on which the moxa is placed m metalli' To fix the moxa, a moxa-holder (5) is best employ , ’ wliere tli rincr with wooden feet and handle. The neighbouring P then noxa is applied must be covered with moist compresses to pro ^ from the sparks which fly about, as when hghte it mus ^ reqUire< pipe so as to keep it properly burning; but if its etiec (.) LARRSv.nbovedtoi, p. 6,pl. xMg- 1,2- (i) L.«wv, **• * ' '