466 WATER IN THE HEAD, AND ranee was a tumour of the size of a large orange, membranous, but having in its cent ,. j a small portion of thin bone. This membrane arose from a projecting portion of hoc ' 1 almost circular, whose diameter was three inches and a half, and contained about hal S a pound of serum; when this was suppurated, it appeared as if there was a she ,vi of bone below, which was not complete, as the fluid run from this cell into the eavi ■■■» of the skull. The roof the orbit was nearly convex. On puncturing the right side \\d the anterior fontanelle, about five pints of serum were drawn off. The body was of J rickety appearance and much emaciated, and there was a spina bifida of the si 1 of a hen’s egg in the lumbar region. The child had possessed all its faculties uni a day or two previous to its death, but generally lay on a sofa with its head raised. Unij j five 'mouths of age the head had been normal, but then increased.” (p. 564.)] 1887. The mischiefs produced by hydrocephalus and spina bifida \ -j the functions of the brain and spinal marrow, are not always the .same 4 Most commonly children born with water in the head die soon after bird J either in consequence of the disease itself, or the damage which the hea f suffers during delivery ; in rare cases, however, they reach a more or le, ^ advanced age, and the head acquire an enormous size. Not withstands : the diminished size of the brain, its functions are not always propoi j tionally lost. Although the functions of the intestinal canal be in genert;j natural, the nourishment of the body otherwise is affected, so that ! is extremely thin and backward in its development. In those cast- > in which hydrocephalus is accompanied with watery bags, the above c mentioned mischiefs are usually slighter, and scarcely observable. 11 spina bifida, indeed, the condition of the spinal marrow is, for the mos| part, altered ; it is thinner, is dissolved into a watery substance, studde i with watery bladders, and at the seat of the cleft entirely deficient; : is, however, rarely altered further than at the seat of the cleft, and nc i always in the same degree. Symptoms of hydrocephalus usually accom I pany spina bifida, great wasting, weakness of the lower limbs, involuntarjl discharge of the urine and stools, spasms, convulsions, and so on. _ Thlj larger the swelling, and the nearer it is to the head, the more violenl generally are the symptoms. Mostly children so affected die soon; they I however, in rare cases, live a shorter or longer time. With hydrocephalu I and with spina bifida other misformations are frequently connected.Jo 9 instance, hare lip, cleft palate, club foot, and the like, whence it deci Jl follows that they must be considered as the consequence of an arrest**! development (a). Fisher’s (6) observations on tlie origin of spina bifida are very interesting, in two cases a union of two or more sacral ganglions, the passage of their rcspe&wm nerves through the sheath in one bundle, and the union of the end of the spina wu 1 with the walls of the sac. I have fully verified this statement, in a case in whicn ^ followed some time after puncture. Fisher hereon founded the following opinio • 1 first, that the union of the sacral ganglions depended on primary irregularity, < which arose the anomalous division of the corresponding nerves between the and the spinal marrow ; second, the growing together of the spinal mar™. . b , the sheath prevented the ascent of the marrow in its natural position, and to it » ascribed the irregular way in which the nerves are inserted into the spinal m ^ , third, the union of the ganglions may, in a degree, be ascribed to the dc''el0J>"’ , fonn process, by which the neighbouring ganglions, in many cases, themselves ot nan o unite with each other; and the general existence of this deformity at the m ' ^ the spinal column depends on the relative position of the sacral ganglions I in the sacral canal, whilst those of the other spinal nerves arc m the intervert • ^ b ( fourth, the incomplete form of the hinder wall of the vertebral column l (n) Murray, J. A., Progres. do Spina, bifidm congcnitis circa thoraccm ct abdomen. Eri cx_ mala osaium conformal,one Initio. Cooling., 1810. ^ ^ ^ phi, h. < Meckel, above cited.—Fi.eisOhmann, De vitiis Journal of Science, vol. x. p- 3 b, P- -