BLOOD-SWELLINGS 452 bones is rough, porous, and intimately connected with the gelatinous ma in some cases even perforated. (Burchard.) If when the dura malerbe gradually wasted, that part of the bone be examined, in children w u have afterwards died, where it has been eaten away, upon removing skin not the slightest alteration is found, the 'pericranium, is in its natu ;nj condition, and may be just as well separated as at other parts ; on : <j bone itself there is observed only to the extent which the earlier bio. tl swelling had occupied, a greater thickening which especially afievs the outer table, and on sawing through the bone a greater development:* diploe; otherwise there is no change of texture in the bone. These sli^fl variations even are probably entirely lost (a). Burchard, from the existence of this bony layer beneath the pericranium, .jfi led himself into a mistake, by supposing it the raised and expanded outer tabUM the bone; and hence has arisen the opinion of a blood-swelling, in which the bU i at is collected between the two plates of bone. The falsity of this opinion is pro'® by what I have above stated as to the course of the ossifying process in hlood-swi ings. It is further completely irreconcilable with the anatomical character of the sk-' :■( bones of a newly-born child, in which nothing can he said of a diploe, in its pecu-x sense, perhaps even only at certain parts of an external and internal plate. 1856. The distinguishing characters of blood-swellings from oth tumours on the heads of newly-born children, for instance, the cornuu head swelling, (caput succedaneum,) the congenital hernia cerebri, t so-called water-bags, and the blood-sacs, which are connected with one the sinuses (Bush, Flint) are, their circumscribed, elastic, fluctuate i nature; their usual seat on the parietal bones, and the impossibil 1 of diminishing them by pressure, in which no symptoms of pressor on the brain arise. It must, however, be observed in reference 4 congenital hernia cerebri, that when, as usual, it happens in the sutu » and fontanels, its existence is proved by anatomical examination at otl than at the seat of the sutures (b). The pulsation which is also given a characteristic sign in hernia cerebri, is not always distinctly perceptit j and even in blood-swellings may be observed ; the pulsation, however, ♦ hernia cerebri is always more decidedly manifest than in blood-swellin In hernia cerebri an actual opening in the bone can be felt; in the Ik < blood-swelling, when the tumour is not very tense, the bone may be 1 by pressing strongly upon it, inasmuch as in these swellings the hard ec > at its base is not formed by loss of substance of the bone, but by t1 swelling of the soft parts, as in common boils. In the blood-sacs c(< nected with a sinus, the diagnosis is founded on the perceptible edge of t pieces of bone, and the possibility of diminishing the swelling by pressu- A blood-swelling cannot be confused with oedema capitis; from the s called partial external hydrocephalus, in which the wrater is collected unc the galea aponeurotica or the pericranium itself, is a distinction scarce g possible ; the existence of such kind of watery head is rightly doubtt \ External violence which produces bumps, always more or less injui | the skin, which is tinged with blood and discoloured. The diagno j of the blood-swelling may be very difficult when the ossifying process already proceeded far, and the tumour has not been previously set-j Osiander (c) manifestly fell into this mistake, against which only * j observation of its peculiar elasticity, and careful inquiry of its earui condition can guard us. (a) My observations in Ileidelb. kliniscli. An- (6) Hofuno, Zwei Falle von Hirnhmeh{ 1 Xialen, vol. vi. p. 541. 1830. Casper’s Wochenschrift. 1835. >o. —>• (tr) Ilandbuch tier Entbiudungskunst, vol. ii.par. 203. Tubing., 18-1.