IN THE MAXILLARY SINUS. 745 the upper part of the string is pulled up, the thread must be drawn i through the upper opening of the cavity, and separated from the string. To the lower part of the thread a piece of sponge or a wad of lint is attached, which must be pressed firmly against the opening in the palate, whilst the upper end of the thread is pulled up. The upper part of the I string is then smeared with some of the just-mentioned escharotics, and i replaced in the sinus. If the string be gradually made thicker, it favours | the cure. According to Hedenus, the seton, after the lip has been separated from the upper jaw, >i should be drawn within the mouth through the front wall of the maxillary sinus and the palate, by means of a curved needle (a). 2365. In deciding on the different modes of proceeding for opening 3 the maxillary sinus, it must be remembered that in collections of mucus i and pus, when there are also caries and necrosis of the alveolar process, . and of the walls of the sinus, the principal object must always be to form : a sufficiently large opening, so that the collected fluid may freely escape, : and the loose pieces of bone be removed. For such cases, under the cir- * cumstances above mentioned, (par. 2356,) boring through the tooth- * socket or in the fossa canina is best. The introduction of a seton accord- 1 ing to Weinhold’s method is very advantageous for destroying many -- after-growths. There are, however, degenerations of the maxillary sinus, i in which not merely the mucous membrane, but even the bones are com- [ pletely changed in their tissue, to which neither of the above-mentioned 'ri' modes of treatment are applicable; and the removal of the after-products * 18 alone possible by taking away the greater part of the bony wall so as to J- get at them; or the bone may be divided to the whole extent of the after- I product, as will be directed for the removal of the upper jaw. As to I'the special performance of this operation, nothing decided'can be laid i down ; it must depend on the peculiarity of the case, the circumstances ■rallied to which will be hereafter noticed, in treating of removal of the | upper jaw. In the former case it must be attempted to penetrate the tront wall of the sinus by a semi-circular cut above the alveolar process * with a sickle-shaped knife, and by a like cut through the palate also, so as II o cut out an elliptical portion of the bony wall. The after-product nust now be removed with polyp-forceps, or if its adhesions be firm M must be taken away with the knife. The bleeding during this opera- on is always severe, and requires, if pressure with wads of lint ! “8u™cient, the actual cautery; this is best managed with a bent K e^l! uffhlCf!he ca"ula is wraPPed in wet linen. The actual can- I JauseTt 1 . aPP V6ry, Tai'tly t0 destr°y the after-product, I ,p^tTon Produce severe and dangerous reaction. At first, after the „ SSiani! Wh m be antiphlogistic and soothing, according to SS When suppuration is set up, it must be° sustained” by f au tP 1 nt Wlth digestive, and strewing it with irritating powders. ctual cttervr'PT1UCt ^ n0t r0™1’ °r lf k be destroyed by the . tics, of vhS’, a ^w growth ensue, it must be destroyed by eschar- I acaltrLSern ? tm Vf 18 best Jt is ^evident that in this i e forgotten ’ f ,e 1 ,e P°WerS and any causal dycrasy must not Ini ’ b m 1 corresP°nding treatment. " "‘m a pretty spacious cnvftv^ t0°tb’ 1*s,r<?ot expand the surrounding socket, and I, * ^ paC'°US C:U,ty- unconnected, however, with the maxillary sinus. Drawing SAKFr. u„d Waltbeb’b Journal, vol. ii. part Hi. p. 387.-VVKrimotn, in same, vol. iii. part i.