FOREIGN BODIES 394 Lawrence had a case in which a man had broken the neck of a wine-bottle ir his rectum; he gradually dilated the sphincter, introduced his whole hand, and 1 moved it.] VI.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. Hevin, Precis d’Observations sur les Corps Strangers arrete's dans l’CEsophage, et da la Trachee-artere, etc.; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. i. p. 565. Louis, Me'moires sur la Bronchotomie—Second Mc'moire sur la Bronchotomie, oil 1’ (. traite de Corps etrangers dans la Trache'e-artere; in Me'm. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. i p. 455. De la Martini£re, Observations sur un Corps etranger qui penjoit la Trachee-arter in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. v. p. 521 Lescure, Sur une portion d’Amande de noyau d’abricot, dans la Trachee-artere; : same, p. 524. Suite d’Observations sur les Corps etrangers dans la Trachee-artere; in same, p. 52 i , Porter, Will. Henry, Observations on the Surgical Pathology of the Larynx ai Trachea, &c. Dublin, 1826. 8vo. Stokes, William, M.D. A Treatise on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases 4 the Chest. Dublin, 1827. 8vo. Wendt, Historia Tracheotomiae. Vratislav., 1774. Ficker, De Tracheotomia et Laryngotomia. Erfurt, 1792. Desault, GEuvres Chirurgicales, par Bichat, vol. ii. p. 255. Klein ; in Chirurgisch. Bemerkung. Stuttg., 1801 ; in von Siebold’s Chiron., vol. i j|f, p. 649 ; in von Graefe und von Walther's Journal, vol. i. p. 441; vol. vi. p. 225. Michaelis; in Hufeland’s Journal, vol. ix. pt. ii.; vol. xi. pt. iii. Pelletan, Me'moire sur la Bronchotomie ; in Clin. Chir., vol. i. p. 1. Lawrence, Will, On some Affections of the Larynx, which require the operation « W Bronchotomie; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol vi.. p. 221. 1753. Foreign bodies usually get into the windpipe, when during the ac li of swallowing, the epiglottis is raised by speaking, laughing, and the like ‘ or when they are thrown into the mouth. The symptoms produced depem j«s on the obstructed passage of the air, and the irritation of the lining mem a brane of the windpipe. Immediately there occurs a severe convulsiv h cough, with danger of choking, with a whistling and rustling in the throat d which sometimes relaxes for a space ; the patient points to the seat of pah I with his finger, has more or less painful effort in swallowing and in breath n ing ; his voice is altered and becomes hoarse, or is completely lost; by th jjj obstructed return of the blood from his head, the face at last becomes puff | and bluish, the eyes start out, the veins of the neck are swollen, and abovi jj the collar-bones there appears an emphysematous swelling. These symjH « toms sometimes continue with the same violence, sometimes cease, boil recur at irregular periods ; occasionally only some of them diminish, const- (j derable pain, oppression, and difficulty of breathing remain. The conse quences specially to be feared from foreign bodies in the windpipe are I suffocation, if the entrance of the air be completely prevented; empty'1 j sema of the lungs if the position of the body prevent the escape of the air inflammation of the windpipe and lungs with their outlets, and apoplex) -j from the collection of blood in the brain. [Porter (a) well observes :—“ This accident never happens at the time it is generally j considered as most likely to occur, namely, in the act of swallowing. When a perso jg is engaged in the performance of this function the root of the tongue is depressed, wm I (a) Above cited.