POPLITEAL ARTERY. 265 ■ view with the veins and posterior cutaneous nerves of the leg. These parts i ire to be drawn aside by an assistant, and the cellular tissue being divided vith the handle of the knife, the popliteal artery is found on the inner ,ide, the vein in the middle, and the nerve on the outside. If the cut be omewhat lengthened in this proceeding, the posterior tibial artery may be ied at its upper part (a). Jobert (b) ties the artery in the internal epicondyloid pit, viz., in the triangular epression bounded within by the m. sartorius, gracilis, semi-tendinosus and semi-mem- ■anosus. The knee is to be half bent, and a cut made on the outer edge of these nscles, two inches long, through the skin to the fatty tissue. The skin is to be then rawn outwards, and a second cut across the former made, but without wounding e skin, by which the tendinous expansion of the m. adductor magnus is divided. The irefinger is to be passed beneath the tendinous expansion, and a button-ended bistoury troduced upon it, to cut through the superficial layer of the aponeurosis which covers e artery. The pulsation of the’ artery is then felt, and in some thin persons may ven be seen. The fatty tissue is to be penetrated with a director, which is carried with e greatest care between the artery and vein. 1485. If the aneurysm be situated at the commencement of the tibial rtery, the femoral must be tied in the way mentioned (1). But if it be lower ■II the tibial artery, the inflow of blood, after tying the femoral artery, is ufficient, in large aneurysms of the foot, to keep up the disease, and it is herefore necessary to tie the affected artery in the neighbourhood of the neurysmal sac (2). [(1) The following case of aneurysm of the posterior tibial artery is a good example [ ■< f the practice recommended:— i Case.—M. H., aged 38 years, was admitted, I) Sept. 13, 1832, with a pulsating tumour at the back of the upper part of the right :g. He had fallen down stairs a twelvemonth since upon a brush, and at the same time risted his leg, which laid him up with great pain and swelling for ten days, but after at time he seemed to get well, excepting that he had a little continual pain and always throbbing behind and below (he head of the fibula. Six months since, after having b alked a considerable distance, his leg began to swell and be so painful as to compel , im to keep at rest. There is now distinct pulsation below the head of the fibula and t an opposite point on the inside of the leg beneath the gastrocnemial muscles. The :>i osterior tibial artery does not pulsate at the ankle; and the anterior tibial beats but . :ebly. The girth of the affected leg at this part is nearly sixteen inches, whilst in Ml le other it is only thirteen and a half inches. The temperature of the limb is dimi- ; ished; and he has numbness and pricking of the whole limb below the tumour, more a articularly affecting the foot. Pressure of the femoral artery at the groin, or on the to des of the swelling, diminishes it half an inch, but it fills immediately, when the ■ ressure is withdrawn. Sept. 21. My colleague Green tied the femoral artery at the usual place in the middle f the thigh. The pulsation ceased when the ligature was tightened. Oct. 2. Has been going on well; the limb about an inch smaller, but more yield- tg: the pricking and numbness of the foot have ceased. Oct. 30. The ligature came away. After which the wound soon healed ; but at two lonths end the size of the limb had only diminished an inch. Astlev Cooper mentions a case of “ anterior tibial aneurism a little below the head 1 the fibula, for which the femoral artery was tied; the pulsation ceased in the aneu- ism, and the swelling for a time subsided. The case did not ultimately recover, for a ough of the aneurismal sac took place.” (p. 63.) (2) The younger Cline had a case of aneurysm of the anterior tibial artery “ on ie upper part of the foot, and he tied the anterior tibial artery at the lower part of the g, but the pulsation in the aneurism continued when the boy left the hospital ” “ It will ' "cnT[Lvlri8ht\ IT As™ CoopE?’ “ t0 tie the artery by opening the sac. so as to a7ve a?d b.e °w the aperture, if the aneurism be seated low down in the limb, me anastomosis with the plantar arteries is exceedingly free.” (p. 63.)] -Fkoriep, R., 'above cited, pi. xu.-Dietrich, 8 » p . l. 1,2., pi. x. lig. 3. A, B. above cited, p. 334.—Manec, above cited, pi. xi. (£») Nouvelle Bibliotiieque Medicale, 1827, Feb.