CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 580 and with the right pressed the forceps between them directly into the bladder, andwi -j ft drew the female conductor. He then sought for the stone with the forceps, and havi found it, was certified that the forceps had not gone wrong, but were in the bladd it and withdrew the male conductor. He then opened the forceps somewhat and 6u .nt ciently both to enlarge the wound and dilate the bladder as much as possible to separaj « it from the stone. Finally, he searched for, seized and extracted the stone, using t; a same precautions as those are accustomed and ought to use, who well perform thisci a by cutting into the urethra in the perinceum.” Such is the account, not very clear, certainly, which Albinus has left of Rai operation, but important as being the first which was grounded on anatomy, and i s merely empirical. It also led Cheselden to give up the high operation; for, “ hearin;, a says he, “ of the great success of Mr. Rau, professor of anatomy at Leyden, I det« 1 mined to try, though not in his manner, to cut directly into the bladder; and as 1 I operation was an improvement of Friar Jacques’, 1 endeavoured to improve upon h by filling the bladder, as Douglas had done in the high way, with water, leaving t;tj catheter in, and then cutting on the outside of the catheter into the bladder in the sari place as upon the gripe, which I could do very readily, and take out a stone of any si -i with more ease than in any other way. My patients, for some days after the operatic d seemed out of danger, but the urine which came out of the bladder, continually lodgk i| upon the cellular membrane on the outside of the rectum, made fetid ulcers, attend: > 1 with a vast discharge of stinking matter; and from this cause I lost four patients o • of ten. * * * I then attempted to cut into the bladder in the same manner that M s Rau was commonly reported to do, but there had the same inconvenience from t' :< urine’s lodging upon the cellular membrane on the outside of the intestinum rectui Upon these disappointments I contrived the manner of cutting which is now called tl 1 lateral way.” (p. 328-30.)] 2075. The preparation for this operation consists in clearing the per nceum of hair, and in emptying the rectum, by a clyster. The patient j placed on a table covered with a firm matrass, in a horizontal, and t some in a rather reclined posture, with his head supported by pillow The ischial tuberosities should project a little beyond the edge of the tahh The hands are attached by bandages to the feet, which are drawn up. I children, also, especially, who are generally very difficult to hold in tb ? operation, it is advantageous to bind the body with a broad cloth to tb table (1). Two assistants grasp the feet, so as each to press a knee wifi one hand against their breast, and with the other placed on the inside c the foot, to hold it out, and to separate the thighs moderately from eac. other ; a third assistant fixes the pelvis, and a fourth hands the instnoj ments to the operator (2). [(1) The direction here given of fixing a child to the table with a bandage IS V® objectionable on account of the pressure it must make upon the chest and its i'j ference with his breathing. It is also wholly unnecessary, if the assistants know to hold the patient and do so properly. m . (2) Trifling as it might at first seem, the holding a patient properly and st■ during the operation for the stone, is a most important part of the proceeding, an material advantage or disadvantage to the operator, as it is well or ill done; patient ought to be, and may be, without difficulty, so effectually fixed, that • once placed he cannot move. The knees should always be kept as far apart asjwssi^ once piaceu IlU uauuui muvc. x uc ivncca ouuuivx uinuja “r*" * and the heels close upon the outside of the great trochanters, by which the operate ample room for the use of his instruments. The best mode of effecting this is assistant fixing the patient’s knee deeply in his own armpit, and then dropping^ upper arm vertically on the inside of the bound limb, he hugs it closely to nis own ^ and if the patient be powerful and resisting, the assistant throws the weight ot ^ upon the knee, and th liberty, are placed on esi ini ini o tu'- „ The fore-arm and hand bang * upon the knee, and thus easily inclines it outwards. a*ic • tant liberty, are placed on the inside of the leg, to assist the other hand ot tne ^ which should grasp the foot, either across the instep or the middle of the sole, ®. . aIH it outwards. This is the easiest and least fatiguing mode of fixing, both to pa f|efj assistants, and but rarely requires any correction during the operat'"”-, at th, ligature, consisting of a bandage round the neck, carried ™m^ithinoiis alway bent hams, and tied upon the neck, adds much to steadying the patient, and i V I