STRICTURE 352 Bull, Charles, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, Prostate and Rectum. Third Edition; with Notes, by J. Shaw. London, 1822. 8vo. Decamp, Theodore, Traites des Retentions d’Urine causees par le Rdtrdcissement ■ d’Uretre et des Moyens a l’aide desquelles on peut detruire completement les Obstruc- tions de ce Canal. Paris, 1822. Lisfranc, J., Des Re'tre'cissemens de l’Uretre. Trad. Lat. par J. B. Vesicnie ei . J. Richard. Paris, 1824. 8vo. Lallemand, F., Observations sur les Maladies des Organes Genito-Urinaires ' 2 Parties. 8vo. Paris, 1825, 27. Winzheimer, M., Ueber die organische Harnrohrenverengerung und die ver- schiedenen Untersuchungs- und Heilungsmethoden derselben. Erlangen, 1832. 4to. Amussat Lecons sur les Retentions d’Urine causees par le Retre'cissement du Cana.- de l’Uretre’, et sur les Maladies de la Prostate. Publie'es sous ses yeux, par A. j Petit. Paris, 1832. 8vo. Tanchod, Traite des Retrecissements du Canal de l’Uretre, &c Paris, 1835. 8vo. » Brodie, Sir B. C., Lectures on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs. London, 1842' i 8vo. Third Edition. Kdgler, J., Praktische Abhaudlung liber die Verengerung der Hamrdhre, und ihn Heilung ohne Aetzmittel. Wien., 1843. 1672. Stricture of the Urethra (Strictura Urethrce, Lat. ; \erenge- j rung der Harnrohre, Germ.; Retrecissement de V Uretre, Fr.) results more frequently from a change of the mucous membrane with which it is lined, than in any other outlet. In women only it is very rare, on account of the shortness of the passage. The narrowings of the urethra from other causes, will be treated of subsequently, u considering retention of the urine. 1673 The development of this disease is always exceedingly tedious and at first is usually not noticed by the patient. He first feels a slight pan ■ in passing his urine, and there is frequently some mucous discharge from thi urethra'.which spots the linen. Gradually more frequent urgency t( emptv the bladder comes on, and the voidance of the urine is accom panied with much straining. The stream of the flowing water begins t< diminish in thickness, is frequently divided and spiral, or if the urine havt been already discharged in a stream, a small quantity still falls vertical!, in drops. Frequently all the urine is not voided at once, and a large quantity is still passed on additional effort. When the proper of the urine is completed, there still remains a small portion behind tm strictured part, which, as the 'penis hangs down, gradually escapes J _ own gravity. If there be several strictures existing at the same the stream of urine is powerless, and the urine drips away. In t is s the patient long continues getting alternately better and worse; an a violent exertions, after taking heating food and drink, after connexio , after catching cold, a momentary stoppage of urine may occur. rBrodie iustly remarks, that “ in some cases the urine dribbles away 1 j involuntarily, and the patient’s clothes by day, aud his bed by night, are j sopped with mine, maJdng him disgusting to himself and to all involuntary discharge of urine does not indicate an empty and contrai te ^ ftnbe The bladder, in fact, is loaded with urine, and it is when it does not a‘‘ wilboii distension that the urine overflows, and all beyond a certain fluannt> ’ felt lik the patient being able to prevent it, the bladder being at the same tin an enormous tumour in the lower part of the abdomen.” (p. 1 L)j onp 1674. At last the disease reaches its highest pitch ; the urn j( be voided witli the greatest effort and in extremely small quan i » discharge is often completely stopped. By the pressure o