533 URIC ACID GRAVEL, TREATMENT OF. The causes producing this diathesis, independent of the use of food containing I oxalic acid, as rhubarb tarts and sorrel, are those habits -which are calculated to dirni- tl aishthe vital energy, and the powers of assimilation, and of these severe mental study, ji or anxiety, or inordinate venery, appear to me to be the most common. The treatment ' ; must be guided by general principles; an entire change of habits, change of air, and a vigorous diet, consisting almost exclusively of meat and bread, with the avoidance of (I sugar in every form, are the most important circumstances to be attended to. The nitre-muriatic acid, which has been much recommended, causes certainly in f| many cases, the oxalate of lime to disappear from the urine, and frequently substitutes that of uric acid. Its use cannot, however, be long persisted in, and without atten- tion to the above rules, it has no permanent advantage.—T. T.] B 2011. As to the aetiology of gravel and its various kinds, all that has I been already said generally applies, and therefore its indications determine i the treatment. Its object must be to prevent the increased production of » the acid, or the formation of a new one, and to encourage the removal of ; the gravel already formed. If the gravel cause violent pain, difficulty in u making water, fever, and the like, these must be got rid of by blood- letting, leeches, cupping on the loins, lukewarm baths, fomentations by i calomel with antimony and opium, or hyoscyamus, by the introduction of the catheter, and so forth, according to the different state of the patient, and the violence of the symptoms. If there be suspicion of any accom- panying local disease in the kidneys after the inflammatory symptoms have been soothed, a large galbanum plaster, an issue, or a seton in the loins may be useful. 2012. In uric acid gravel, the excessive production of the uric acid must be prevented,* and the excessive acidification of the urine by other acids must be guarded against. The patient must keep to a strict diet, both as regards the quantity and quality of his food ; all substances con- taining much azote, especially salted and dried meats, acid fruits, thin soups, wine, especially that which is acid, and bad beer must be most carefully avoided. The proper action of the skin must be attended to by wearing flannel next the body, and regular relief from the bowels by proper exer- cise, and avoidance of mental excitement. It must be sought to neutralize the acid by the use of alkalies, carbonate of soda, of potash, of magnesia. These partly neutralize the acids in the alimentary canal, and in the juices, | by which the ever-continuing decomposition of the urate of ammonia is got rid of, and partly by the passing over of the alkalies into the urine, the so- »lution of the gravel is effected. The carbonate of soda and potash must be !i given dissolved in water, and the dose gradually increased. Frequently i during their continued use, the digestion is disturbed, which renders their ^suspension necessary. Carbonate of magnesia is given either in powder or P»’ith mucilaginous fluids; it is less effective, but more easily borne. KAccording to Prout (a), if these remedies are to be really efficacious, 1 they must not be given alone, but combined with alteratives and purga- (’tives. A pill of calomel and antimony should be given at night, and a solution of Rochelle salts and carbonate of soda in bitter drink next norning. Through the day this mixture should be taken twice or thrice, »r a little magnesia in a glass of soda water. This treatment must be con- mued for a certain time, according to the severity and obstinacy of the symptoms, and the alterative pills given at more distant intervals, with a corresponding diminution of the doses of the other medicines. If violent irritation also exist, opium, or hyoscyamus, which is still better, must be (n) Above cited, p. 78.