[ 287 ] D._OF UNNATURAL EXPANSION OF THE VEINS. ■ Of Varices. II.—OF VARICES IN GENERAL. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. Petit, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. ii. Volpi, Saggio di Osservazioni e di Esperienze Medico-Chirurgiche, &c. Milana et ivia, 1814-16. 8vo. vol. ii. Velpeau, Lemons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale. Paris, 18 . Hodgson, Joseph, On Diseases of Arteries and Veins, above cited. Brodie, Observations on the Treatment of Varicose Veins of the Leg; in Med.-Chir. ans., vol. vii. p. 195. , Lectures illustrative of various subjects in Pathology and Surgery. 8vo. mdon, 1846. Bell, Charles, System of Operative Surgery. London, 1807-9. 8vo. vol. i. p. 89. 1520. The veins are, on account of the weakness of their membranes, bject to a great degree of extensibility, and then form swellings which are lied Vein-knots ( Varices, Lat.; Blutaderknoten, Krampfadern, Germ.; arices, Fr.) 1521. Expansion of the veins generally takes place very slowly, and at st is not accompanied with any inconvenience ; it gradually increases, Se veins describe, in their course, larger curves, form unequal, defined, uish or blackish prominences, which diminish on the application of essure, but quickly return on its withdrawal, and cause a sensation of ;ight, and often severe pain in the part where it is situated. Varicose 1 ins, by their lying together, often produce large swellings and oedema of )i e whole part: the coats of the veins thicken, adhere to the neighbouring rts; the skin covering them inflames, abscesses form, ulcerations also h le place in the skin, and cellular tissue, (varicose ulcers,) which are >sely connected with this varicose state, and so long as it continues can- > t readily be induced to heal (1). Often by bursting of the vein consider- ) le bleeding ensues; and sometimes the blood is poured into the cellular ■’ sue by tearing of the vein. Often the blood coagulates in the expanded • ssel, and the knots thereby produced are hard and incompressible (2). * >r the most part only the superficial, more rarely the deep-seated ms, in many cases not only the venous trunks, but also the minute anches, sometimes they alone, are expanded, and considerable swellings ise here and there. a Lte! says:—“For the most part, the effect of inflammation of a varicose inflamerl vIri^°dU“ her ab,scess or ujce,r- 14is vet7 remarkable that the blood n Thprp c cose vei,ns coagulates; and they become choked up with the coagu- iditv of tfcf L?S i° bif- something m an inflamed vein that is unfavourable to the ns of i b ood. ^hlch it contains. You observe this not only when varicose ^ Sin agcrofn^ed%bUt^hen thC vdDS are inflamed under other cirTum- ge and very tender' -A.t0 -y0U with an external pile, which is two it becomes filled rd.amed' At II c°utains fluid blood, but in a day dark-coburTd fihriri I? Solld “atter’ and Lf You sl>t it open you find a solid lump '■se circumstances you win nkofi °F*h ar‘lnflam?d Vncose duster in the leg, under :‘gulated blood * VU* S0 lnd,tbat 44le cavity is filled up in like manner with ed. Other varience el„ci ° coa£u'um fills uP the vein, and the vein becomes oblite- ancose clusters may appear afterwards, but this one is cured. * * *