377 AND OF THE WOMB. inust be made in the narrowed parts (a) ; and, if possible, they should be unde on the sides, as if they be directed from before backwards, there is langer on account of the growing together of the vagina with the bladder ncl the rectum, of wounding them. If the vagina be extremely "narrow, 9 pening the head by a cut through the perinceum may be required (b). 1712. If the menstrual blood be collected behind the closed vagina, it « scapes after the opening is made, and is black and free from smell. It xl uust be completely emptied by injection, otherwise it will putrify on the ^ dmission of the air, and unpleasant symptoms will be produced. At first & he most proper injections are those of luke-warm water, of decoction of v lallows or marshmallows; but so soon as there is the least smell tincture rr f myrrh should be added, or injections of bark, with the addition of acid, Ipirits of camphor, solution of chloride of lime, and the like. If there t e active inflammation, smart antiphlogistic treatment must be employed, j n order to prevent reunion, it is sufficient, after dividing the labia, to il eep them separate with a piece of oiled linen. After division at the 4 ntrance of the vagina, a sufficiently thick plug of lint must be intro- duced. Where the narrowing, was high up in the vagina, and tough, its n eunion is much to be feared ; in such cases it will be necessary to oppose 4 his disposition by the continued introduction of thick plugs of lint, e ponge tent, elastic cylinders, and the like. The use of dilators often very u onsiderably assists these means. If it happen that, under these circum- :ances, symptoms of violent irritation ensue, a corresponding cooling and u< oothing treatment must be had recourse to. JI.-OF CLOSURE- AND NARROWING OF THE MOUTH OF THE WOMB. 1713. The closure of the mouth of the womb is either a vice of the rst formation, or first occurs at a later period, and may depend on a mern- rane closing the aperture, or on its growing together. The symptoms lereby produced depend on the retention of the menstrual blood, or if ie c osure first occur during pregnancy, on the obstruction of the labour ' /Vhe Jormer case’ cIosure of the mouth of the womb may be resumed, if, on the appearance of the symptoms accompanying menstru- alarffesbi.nddth°ril*f ^“ii happen regularly, the womb gradually •ilarges, and the belly swells. On examination, the vagina is found pei - .a blT’ , 1 dlStend1ed m™th ofthe womb descends into the pelvis, and Zna pu;fhed;pwar^ aad backwards by introducing the fingers into the .STfill i ® n,Tth 0f the womb be closec* by membrane, it is often >und filled out like a sac. The closure of the outer mouth of the irefulTn? dJstin&uished W the finger, and that of the inner by the ire4’'n introduction of a sound. y mtinup If the bI°°d colIected in the womb cannot escape, it may as it ally andTrea'finf 1 it§ Way throu»h the Fallopian tubes into the f lXZSt*l7T°ma- B,"t if the, m°Uth 0f the womb be closed hich will escape TfiJJ® t0rn.by the assure of the blood 1716. When the 7 fr,emedy consists in opening the closed part. >eleft hand with its nil mouth of the womb is closed, the forefinger of irt to be opened unnn T °r SUrfafe upwards’ must be introduced up to the ^terotome is to’be n ? curved trocar, pharyngotome, or Osiander’s C«) Prtit j , T . b: P d’ and the membrane closing the mouth of the **. vol. vi.’j/. /i'(J rrait® <les Maladies cliirurgi- (6) Champenois ; in Journal de Medecine vol. xli.