918 DRESSING THE STUMP. breadth below the apex of the knee-cap, in working persons, on whom the operation is - most commonly performed, as the kneeling posture in the bed of the wooden leg is the' best and most useful for them ; and if the stump be of greater length, its only use is to i be in the way and be liable to injury. In persons of easy circumstances, who can afford to be idle, and are not required to be always a-foot, a long stump, by amputation a little above the ankle, if possible, which is not always, may be permissible; and they willll enjoy the movements of the knee-joint; but for useful purposes, gentle or simple, will!; find the short stump the best; for it must be remembered, that in no properly-fitting e artificial leg is the weight of the body thrown upon the end of the stump, as some Sur- geons pretend it ought to be, forgetting if it be, that a sore stump is generally the conse- quence.—J. F. S.] 2720. Tying the vessels is performed in the usual manner, but is often? difficult when the amputation is performed high up, because the vessels ■ are here collected together in a bundle. If the nutritious artery of the shin-bone bleed violently, a little ball of wax must be thrust into its • mouth (1). When the vessels are tied, the ligatures arranged, and the circum- ference of the wound dried, the edges of the skin must be brought together ■■ vertically (2), and kept in this position by strips of sticking plaster, note too tightly applied. A wad of lint and a compress are applied, and lightly ? fastened with a roller. The position of the stump must be either out- stretched or bent at the knee, according as it is intended to preserve the movements of the knee in the application of an artificial leg, or to let the? maimed person go upon the knee. The after-treatment must be directed?" according to the general rules. Although in the above-mentioned mode of amputating through the leg, the skin j merely is preserved to cover the stump, I have always found it sufficient, and have never noticed any protrusion of the bone. 1 have never seen the skin become gangrenous and burst through by the pressure of the sharp end of the shin-bone, and I therefore con- sider the recommendation of sawing it off obliquely, useless and superfluous (3). [(1) One of the most troublesome circumstances, in regard to tying the vessels in amputating high up through the leg, is when the anterior tibial artery has been divided just after it has passed through the interosseous ligament, and retracts so that it cannot be pulled out aud tied, but sometimes bleeds fiercely, especially after the posterior tibial artery has been taken up. It must then be managed, either by carefully cutting through the interosseous ligament till it can be got at and tied, which is the best mode of proceed-: ing; or by passing a needle and thread a little above the divided edge of the ligament on one side of the spot whence the bleeding issues, from before to behind, and then bring-. ing the thread back again from behind forwards on the other side of the bleeding point, and tying all contained within the loop, which sometimes answers the purpose. Dip- ping with the tenaculum, and tying all it hooks up, is not advisable, for even if it catch the artery, the ligament is also caught with it, aud the ligature cannot be made so tight as to ensure safety from after-bleeding. I have occasionally seen bleeding from the nutritious artery of the shin-bone very tiresome, but have never seen it require more than pressure for a little time till a clot is formed. If I could not so succeed, I should rather prefer applying the actual cautery than using a pellet of wax, as here recommended. (2) 1 do not think bringing the edges of the wound together vertically answers so well as horizontally ; for in the former case, the skin is not merely unsupported, as the stump rests on the pillow, but the pressure tends to make the wound gape. I therefore prefer bringing it together horizontally, by which means the hind part of the stump is supported by the pillow, and the fore part readily drops to meet it without any stress, • and even relieves the tightness of the dressings. (3) I cannot say that I have always had Chki.ius’s good fortune in regard to the skin covering the sharp end of the shiu-boue, as it has happened two or three times in my own practice, and I have occasionally noticed it in the practice of others, that .<■ the skin has been pressed on and sloughed. This generally arises from the edges wound having been drawn too tightly together, in consequence of the skin saved being of sufficient length to cover the stump properly, in whatever direction t^ wound lias been brought together; and even when sufficient and the wound has w* properly dressed for the first few times, yet occasionally the patient’s restlessness an ■