703 HYDATIDS. skin. He then places the blade of the knife flat as at first, and divides the hi sac horizontally right and left. This done, a piece of whalebone as thick >q is paper, and barely a quarter of a line broad, is passed in upon the blade 91 of the knife, so as to keep up the constant escape of the synovia; this ij< Is properly fixed, and a cold wash applied. On the fourth day the whale- i oone is removed, and pressure made, which if the patient can bear it b should be continued for eight days. Further experience is requisite to £i lecide whether by this mode of subcutaneous division, the return of the h\ janglion is more certainly prevented, than by mere puncture, and whether nore serious symptoms are not to be dreaded. It must not be forgotten > hat the principal object in this mode of treatment, is most carefully to prevent the entrance of the air into the cyst, but this, with the various urnings and movements of the knife, &c., seems scarcely possible. Extirpation of the ganglion, which may be necessary if its walls >e very thick and tough, and the above-mentioned plans have been unsuc- cessful, must be performed in the same way as removing encysted tumours, ! nd with great care, that none of the tendons are wounded. The edges of he wound must always be brought together as closely as possible to h prevent the admission of air (2). k [(1) It is not often that a ganglion can be broken by pressure with the thumbs • but 1 F "“7 ln general be managed by a smart blow with a book or a piece of flat board (.Zj 1 can hardly think the removal of a ganglion ever needed, and should be verv orry to undertake such operation.—J. F. S.] y XI.—OF HYDATIDS. (Hijdatis, Lat.;, Ibjdatiden, Germ.; Kystes hjdatiques, Fr.) InKlwo’ TH' G" De Hydatibus in corP°re animali, prasertim liumano repertis. Ludersen, De Hydatibus. Gottingsc, 1808. v : Laennec ; in Bulletin de la Faculte de Medecine, No. 10. 1805. KnS-10ElltOZOOrUm’ SCU Vermium Intestinalium Historia naturalis. Amstelo- ■ Bremser, Ueber lebende Wiirmer im lebenden Meuschen.. Wien, 1819. iviCwvEUHER; in Diet, de Medec., vol. i. p. 465, Article, Acephalocgstes. Paris, l if264' n'jdatids, in some respects, range with encysted tumours; they 'mnbaS-u0UndJsh,10va1, or otherwise shaped serous vesicles, containing I Ko-S. heri SUlg-y °F collected tether in the different organs of our , ,hich 1 TVn t ie ,CaV,ltieS’ 0r surrounded with a second covering, i vinJanimT ‘ the surrounding parts. These hydatids are , pable oHl Wn Pa-'■ by thGlr havin& decided organs, and being 5$that tS’0tlon> nut1ritlon’ a"d ^production, (Budolphi,) and, in 1 jhich thl y 6 qU1, l00se and unc°nnected with the covering by lL t£ S" s.urr,ou,nded- These hydatids are divided into two classes^ l e obseTvJV U/ ’ ^ their bladder-like expansion, decided organ^ } d last. 9(snurus’ and Echinococcus, of which the first asides the vpsieleT 'V * in..nian ’ second, those in which no other organ 2265. Tim r r* ,e°n <i1 * * *(s^v,ered’ as the Acephalocyslides. ertn.i i« rn m lceTcus Cellulose (Blasenschwanz des Zellgewehes, ‘'eral layers rfV' ' \n tb<3 C®1 hilar, tissue of the organs, between the [ e conjunct),■ es’.ln t.ie brain and its vascular network, beneath . 5,am.ber? 0f the eye floating in the’aqueous e> It8 Slze 18 that of a pea or bean, is most coni-