BONY GROWTHS. 672 of a nail (Jaeger); upon this is a substance composed of paralii fibres, which increases in hardness and density near the surface and ti: jj the fibres are fewer towards the centre, and separated by a soft fatty ma;; which is in greatest quantity at the root. The density and hardness of 11 growth are in direct relation with its dark colour; both are least in t . middle and towards the base. These growths are held to be identic j with the substance of nail, and the spurs of gallinaceous birds, whit i is confirmed by chemical examination, being composed of the same su ; stances as the horns of beasts, excepting the antlers of deer, which conta more than a fourth of their weight of gelatine, and have oxygenate albumen as their principal element. Their colour, hardness, and traiv parency depend on the carbon, phosphate of lime, and glue-like substan.ij which they contain (Jaeger.) 2201. In their treatment, their cause must be removed by prop , remedies, preparations of antimony and quicksilver, by baths, decoctio of woods, Zittmann’s decoction, and the like. It has been noticed th' they drop off, under the use of purgatives. If this do not howevq happen, the sound skin must be divided by two semilunar cuts, and the ho) with its root extirpated, in doing which everything in and beneath tl skin, which has degenerated, and is discoloured, or suspicious must be car fully removed. With this object it may be advisable even to cautpri? the wound, so as to produce an issue, and to employ proper after-treatmen The merely cutting short these growths, by sawing or filing, in gener; causes their increased growth ; and also tearing them out, when the coi nexion of their root is not very great, is objectionable on account of tl: pain and the uncertain results. VII.—OF BONY GROWTHS. (Tumores Ossium, Lat.; Knochenauswiichse, Germ.; Tumeurs des Os, Fr.) Matani, Observationes de Ossium Tumoribus. Colon., 1765. Herrmann, Dissert, de Osteosteatomate. Lipsia;, 1767. Houstel, Sur les Exostoses des Os Cylindriques; in Memoires de f Academic d Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 130. Bonn, Tabula; Ossium Morbosorum, prsecipue Thesauri Hoviani. Lugd. Batav 1788. von IIeekeren, De Osteagenesi prseternaturali. Lugd. Bat., 179/. Vollmar, Beobachtungen liber die Knochenspechgescliwulst; in Loder s Joarnft fur die Chirurgie, u. s. w., vol. iii. p. 46. Boyer, Traite' des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 543. Otto, Seltene Beobachtungen zur Anatomie, Physiologie und Pathologie zehons Breslau, 1816. Cooper, Astley, On Exostosis; in his and Travers’s Surgical Essays, part London, 1818. Third Edition. Pech, Osteosarcoma, ejusque speciei insignis descriptio, etc. Wirceb., 1819. Dietei,, Comment. Anatom. Pathol, de Osteosteatomate. Lips., 1822. Miescher, De Inflammatione Ossium. Berol., 1836. 4to. Richter, A. L., Die Organischen Knochenkrankheiten. Berlin, 1839. Also the general observations on Diseases of Bone, by Petit, Dcverney, PaUA ■ Boettcher, Bertrandi and Closius.