CONGENITAL CLOSURE 326 tila«inous, and very thick. rlo prevent tlie re-closure of the recturA it • is necessary to insert a plug of lint, fastened up with strii)s of stickingitff plaster, and with a thread attached to it, for a long while in the cavity of the gut, or to introduce the finger, well oiled, from time to time into the rectum, as the disposition to re-close is often very considerable (a). J; 1613. When there is no trace of an external anal opening, tiie difficulty!-,■ of the operation depends on the higher or lower position of the blind end . of the rectum. If there be no fluctuating swelling, no accompanying pro- iection or depression, which can direct the practitioner, he then, after carefully introducing a catheter into the bladder, and in a female a sound into the vagina, for the purpose of emptying the urine, and distinguishing, during the operation, the position of the bladder and vagina, makes a cut with a pointed bistoury between the beginning of the raphe and the coccyx, in such way, however, that there be an inch distance between the latter and the cut, as in children the rectum does not lie so close to the coaM as in adults. Having penetrated about half an inch, the finger of the left ^ hand must be introduced into the wound, the blind end of the gut soughtpj for, and then the cut is to be cautiously continued more deeply, following, as far as possible, the course of the straight gut, and taking care not to wound the bladder or vagina. When the cavity of the rectum is penetrated, the aperture made must be enlarged with the button-ended bistoury, on the. fino-er or on the director, and the dressing to prevent the re-closure apph®' in °he usual way. If the penetration have reached a depth of two inches, without coming to the gut, it has been advised to proceed with tM operation by thrusting a trochar towards the blind end of the rectum; the objection, however, seems to be correct, that the operation is equally! hazardous and useless, as, although the gut may be opened, effusion ol meconium into the belly is the consequence (h). Here also may be men- tioned Amussat’s (1) mode of practice, in which he draws forth the blutt sac of the intestine exposed by the cut, opens it, and attaches the cut edges of the gut to the edges of the external skin. (1) Amussat (c) found, on introducing his finger into thevamm,>*.“ “J on the top of the sacro-vertebral articulation, which he took for the end ^ He made one transverse cut behind the proper seat of thejmw, and then_ another reached the coccyx. Through this T cut he introduced his finger, cafrying U along ^ sacrum to the end of the gut, and therewith broke down the adhesions; he the £ the intestine, with a pair of forceps, to the external opening, cut into it, and fixed ^ two stitches, so that the mucous membrane overlapped the edge of the externa ^ [Sometimes the two portions of the ileo-colic valve are adherent to each oth , *- . .i loo*! thp nrpsumntion of the large General Lying-in Hospital, in tne summer oi io%z. auc ™,“u did not June 6; and some hours after, no motion having passed, castor oil was Au d d ^ operate. On the evening of the same day, an elastic catheter was introduce Return, to the extent of two o, three inches, and no obstruct™n tarn. £ castor oil was repeated, but did not produce any stools. On the following m evening or mis uay i saw uei. uu - - yin(i finger up about two inches, but not farther, and the gut seemed to termina ‘ ider pouch; no sensation of fluctuation above could be felt; and I thereforeidid not c® ng myself justified in passing a trocar, without knowing where it might go, ^ desirous to give the child a chance of life, I determined on making an art ing For this purpose 1 cut upon the tinea alba about half au inch above the pubes, a , P®1 (a) Henkel, Neue Bemerk., fuse. i. p. H vAdecine, Is35’ (b) ZANO.Dnrstcll.blut.hcilk. Opemt., vol. iii. (c) Archives generalcs de M pt.il. p.436. P-~d'-