209 BY COMPRESSION. ffltneuryanal sac, depending on the arrest of the circulation throughout the [ -whole limb. » [The unsatisfactory results of the treatment of aneurysm by tying the affected artery M-bove and below the sac, opening and emptying the latter, either before or after the ■gature, and then inducing it to fill up by granulation, as also the dangers of amputa- tion, led Guattani («) to consider the possibility of some other proceeding for the manage- Bientof “a disease, so, evidently incurable, that both medicine and surgery renounced jhjll kind of treatment.” He had, however, observed several cases spontaneously cured ajia patients who would not submit to either of these operations, and he hoped to succeed §jy a somewhat similar process. “ Many indeed,” says he, “ were the trials and dangers rtilcpendmg on the varieties of aneurysm, some of which differed from others in their , ; amre; nor did all arise from one and the same spot. But when I especially inquired W‘to those aneurysms which occurred at joints, 1 was led to suspect that by rest in bed and ir.eakemngthe whole body, at the same time also restraining the flow of blood in the artery ■inning to the affected part, and finally by gradually compressing the aneurysmal ii unour itself by the aid of bandages, I might be able not only to prevent its increase that in course of time the grumous blood would, by little and little, of itself be’ j ianged into serum, and rendered fit for circulation, and that the entire resolution of le l™r ™uld at length take place. A methodical bandaging, which should from fehifrr £or? ,c.omPress the affected part, seemed to me the only means »• Inch could fulfil all the indications ; but as in doing this many hindrances occurred d‘ Hrol"11Ch •fmed adlerS,e t0 a haPPJ' result, 1 continued in doubt, whether I should gt rely giveit up, or whether at some future time I should be induced to practise it.” ... 1-9.) In this frame of mind he continued till 1757, when a case of aneurysm of 1 Hr Part °f ,the femoral artery having occurred, he employed simple bandaging a ?er‘aln de£ree controlled the growth of the swelling. But the patient ffd tt n ^mitat0 thtn,e,cessary rest, and left Guattani for another Surgeon who d he ! n AaDid’ I’robably opening the sac at the same time, bound it up very tightly petals * "Jj » very J.ZXtZ" & ; every which 1, and was very cautious that the rT‘1'1 f?uld not too much constrin nof the handle Covered theVrecedintf1*1'6 Sh?,uld be e9ually kaPt up, so that ced, in every surgical op^ation wW - m?re thau half its breadth; !*•” (P 131.) Blldde t f wd hlS, \ndlcatl0? Pcesents, should always be of wine, were orde eT ^5* rest ^.the joint, and the application ’Plr*ts of wine, were ordered’ “ T left the AT j t.“cJu“J,|> ., Sasit performed its duty. ’ If properly apMfed86-^15^66,”-he continues, “as ■nty days. * * * rn rp • Property applied, it would remain for eighteen or ‘ter. I also directedt0°k ^ h should be P* on somewhat lled m the least, which prevent.ff eC" 611'^ e®Pf lally when either the leg or foot <?er.ti“» Utt patieiu could b”?1 Sub.mM™ if it became ■ - sgi,t a1” moistened the cu V'l!iegar and water, that I might' mevent te y V’f and pillows were moistened J* ,haye delayed not a little the cure Bv ,Ct? hea* of skin> ^ich coming on “delighted to find that the swelling fhhon^ C"11 afsid,]10us use of this treatment pulsation, daily decreased more arfd mot gl 1°? • ^ preserved its hardness («) Quoted at head of Article in Lautii’s Collectio. A>L. Ii.