749 DIAGNOSIS AND CAUSES. mouth is broad above and narrow below; hence also the mouth of the womb is always more open than with polyp, as that has a directly contrary form, being broad below and narrow above. In eversion, which is not of long standing, the replacement of the womb is in general possible, in con- sequence of which the pains are lessened, whilst after such attempts the polyp always protrudes again. The polyp is less sensitive than the everted womb. Eversion usually occurs after a very recent labour; the i P°lyp is more movable than the everted womb, its surface is smooth’ and the bending in of the fundus of the womb may be felt through the walls of the belly, if the eversion be any wise great. Complete eversion re- I sembles polyp in the form of the swelling, as it is narrow above and broad -/< below, but it is surrounded by the mouth of the womb like a fold. With polyp the finger, or a probe, may be passed deeply between it and the I vagina, but it cannot be by the side of the everted womb. The stem of a ' polyp is hard, the upper part of the everted womb is yielding because it [o is hollow. Eversion occurs after a birth. Notwithstanding these different signs, the distinction of polyp from r. everted womb, especially if partial and of long duration, is very difficult so I that the most able practitioner cannot be certain without examining by the ! touch As, however, as has been already noticed, {par. 1287,) the form » as well as the sensibility and mobility of the polyp varies ; both swelling may have a smooth or an irregular surface; the polyp may appear soon • after deli very; examination of the belly affords, in stout persons, no defi- 1 !vr|f ’ ?ld/?,h a P°lyP r.°°ted at the fu^us of the womb, the fundus may be, in its further protrusion, dragged down, and a certain decree of l-a'ml1011 P™duce( Careful observation seems to prove the fact that ' quickly When °nCe P35Sed throuSh the mouth of the womb, grows tnX P? mistaking a polyp which has descended into the vagina for (^ imperfect prolapse of the womb is not very possible, as the polyp is ^ Sf,nSltflve than t.he Protruded womb, has generally a bean- p form, without any opening at its lower part: and when at this nart there ,s even a pit resembling tlTe mouth of the womb, no probec™ be fr )e ,i'"f ”!?“; r;-,'J,a“;nit:,)t 15 impossible with a polyp, though it may I effected with prolapsed womb and the pain thereby relieved If the nger or a probe be introduced between the polyp and the ftm o SatP l’ WhilSt’0" the P'-oiapsyePi,is soon Sed ” S * He dStoE £ S ^ 10 C°mi,lete »f *• -omb ’ wwi 1 ~ utn ot the womb are characterized bv the fanl ° X*Z,ybh^k•bSh?,»!.Wl,tel, com>d“ the P”™ y fifc^rarity’ and pail “’hen touched™"7 ffm“ l'nrdness of the s've11- (a) Chklius ; in Ileidelb. klin. Annnl.