676 PROGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF EXOSTOSIS. the substance forming it, and the part of the bone where it has bee || originally developed, is founded on the following circumstances. Idiopa !; thic is distinguished from syphilitic, and scrofulous exostosis by the pre< vious violence, and by the absence of the symptoms which syphilitic oJ scrofulous disease manifests. Syphilitic exostosis is always accompanied b; tj the symptoms of general and inveterate syphilis, with nightly pains of thf| bones, is mostly situated in bones covered with little soft parts, and usually i arises on the surface of the bone. Scrofulous exostosis is accompanies with the general symptoms of scrofulous disease, and is mostly situatec in the deeper bony tissue and the spongy joint-ends of bones. Slov development of the exostosis leads to the expectation of a firm, ivory-likw nature ; whilst a quicker progress, accompanied with much pain, points ti a less firm structure. These symptoms are not, however, certain. Whew ulceration has taken place, it may be ascertained with the probe, or witl the finger, from the condition of the parts. 2209. The prognosis of exostosis is in general unfavourable ; it i; most favourable, however, in the idiopathic kind, if it acquire a certain: size, remain stationary, and is only inconvenient by its size and weight Syphilitic and scrofulous exostoses are always accompanied with a high degree of constitutional ailment; they may pass into malignant ulceration which wastes the powers. 2210. The treatment is guided by the various causes and condition o: the swelling. If syphilis or scrofula be at its root, the remedies opposeo to these must be employed. If the pain be considerable, leeches, rubbing with mercurial ointment and opium, softening poultices with opium, ano the like. The dispersion of a true exostosis is never to be expected from the various dispersing remedies which have been recommended for ex- ternal use, as hemlock, mercurial, and ammoniacal plaster, Schmcckers. plaster, rubbing in volatile salves, long-continued blistering ; they may rather, by their irritation, set up inflammation in the skin, increase the pain, and even encourage the enlargement of the swelling. In generah the progress of the disease is not arrested either by general or local treat- ment. When these remedies have actually dispersed bony swellings, they were doubtless only inflammatory swellings of the periosteum. 2211. In idiopathic exostosis, the further increase of the swelling ma), perhaps, at the onset, be prevented, by bloodletting, and the continued^ use of cold applications, and afterwards by dispersing remedies; its sizer may also, perhaps, be diminished. 2212. If the exostosis be void of pain, if it do not enlarge, nor incon- venience the patient, or if situated on any part where mechanic^, treatment is improper, it is advisable to let it alone. But if the swellings be very inconvenient to the patient, and if its situation admit of me*1' chanical treatment, the only remedy is its removal. This requires tned exposure of the swelling by a crucial cut, or by two semilunar cuts at i I base, and its separation with a fine saw, or with a chisel and hammer. the exostosis be firm and large, it must be removed piecemeal; a horizon cut with the saw being met by a vertical one. The treatment of the 1 consists either in bringing together its edges, if the part wh®nce .]d swelling has been removed be sound, or in the application of a ; dressing, as has been described in wounds of bone with loss of substan • If the size of the swelling permit not its removal, amputation of the must be performed.