SCIRRHUS AND SARCOMATOUS DEGENERATION 804 Curling, T. B., A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis and of the Sper- matic Cord and Scrotum. London, 1843. 8vo. I*«. 2483. The various chronic swellings to which the testicle is subject, and by which its parenchyma is converted into a foreign substance, are usually comprehended under the general designation Sarcocele (Sarcocele, c Hernia carnosa, Lat. ; Fleischbruch, Germ. ; Sarcocele, Fr.) Under /CILO Otfc/ /fcl/OU/, -Litvi.. J 3 — ' ' ' , this term, are ranged together induration, scrofulous and syphilitic swel-41 lino- of the testicle, scirrhous, sarcomatous degeneration, varicose swelling,, i] _ rt • i C4 a noneornila and medullary fungus. Some writers confine Sarcocele to. cancerous.*! deo-eneration of the testicle; others name as Sarcocele a variety of ele- » 1 phantiasis, in which the skin of the scrotum becomes a fleshy substance, attached as it were to a neck, and with which generally the testicle is. unconnected: it is most proper, however, to restrict the term Sarcocele,: simply to the sarcomatous degeneration of the testicle. 2484. Scirrhus of the Testicles is generally preceded by inflammation or other external injury, or it occurs of itself without any apparent cause. Ibe testicle swells, becomes hard ; may continue a long while in this condition >4 without causing any inconvenience ; at last, after some accidental irritation, or of its own accord, the swelling becomes greater, harder, irregular, an knobby, and lancinating pain runs along the course of the spermatic cord. The scirrhosity spreads over the cord, which thickens and becomes firm. : and knotty ; the neighbouring glands swell; the skin of the proton* J adheres to the swelling, at last bursts, and an ulcer with hard out-turn edges, and a discharge of stinking ichor, or with fungous growths, is p duced, and the pain becomes very severe in the region of the loin*jjd spermatic cord. Whilst this is going on in the testicle, the S'e'ieral “ ] becomes very much affected, and the previously-mentioned symptoms set in. The interior of the hardened testicle consists of a hard tallow substance, of a grayish or brownish colour, oftentimes containing dis cells filled with a sanious fluid. .. :s 2485. In Sarcomatous degeneration of the Testicle, its sub.' . changed in the same way as already described of Sarcomam ge» ^ ( par. 2281.) There is an excessive collection of coagulable 1) parenchyma of the testicle; the spermatic arteries and the branc^ t give to the coverings of the testicle are sometimes pretty numerou^ ^ considerably enlarged. In sarcoma the testicle often letains - - 1 ^ a long while, is oval and flattened on both sides, its larger end j(s upwards and forwards, its smaller one downwards and badtwara ^ weight, in proportion to the size of the swelling, is always consi * j on disease generally causes no other inconvenience than that of dragg « the spermatic cord, if unsupported by a bag-truss. It is tree the skin covering it has its natural condition, which is on j - niay on very great enlargement of the swelling. Tie speinia ^ indeed swell, but does not become knotty and knobby. / ^ it comatous swelling be left alone, or if it be irritated ) may run into cancerous degeneration. sarcotna 2486. During the progress of scirrhus as well as jn the collection of water is not unfrequently forl ice of I it a of I'U ri; the testicle, a scrotum, (Hydrosarcocele,) which is to be consmemi swelh"?- the degeneration of the organ. 1 here is then felt a V S the testicle and frequently distinct fluctuation. Sometimes the surface unites with the vaginal tunic into one indistinguishable mass