STONE IN THE BLADDER; 548 pened, and that it was when the stone lay in the cyst, that the patient was free from the i usual symptoms of calculus, and that his sufferings took place when the stone escaped A from it into the general cavity of the bladder.’ (pp. 258, 59.) (C) Wickham (a) relates the case of a boy four years old, on whom he performed « the lateral operation, and met with some difficulty in extracting the stone; “ no untoward tne laierai operiiiiuu, unu nicL wiin oumc ~ e » — ;—— symptom occurred until about the eighth day, when the water returned to its accus- tomed course, which was attended by severe pain, the boy screaming very loudly at each effort to make water. This continued till the fourteenth day, the wound having appeared foul and the surrounding parts inflamed for two or three days previously, when a substance came away from the wound, having the following appearance. It ir a cyst, apparently of the same structure as the bladder; its size is sufficient to contain the calculus, which weighed two drams; the opening into it is just large enough to admit of its exit, and its whole internal surface is lined with calculous matter, in fact, studded with large pieces of calculi. * * * I have no hesitation,” says W ickhak, “ in pronouncing the substance voided by the wound to be a cyst, in which the stone was contained previous to the operation.” (p. 186.) I cannot agree with Wickham’*] was couiailieu JICVIUUB vva ill,. , , a conclusion on this point, as he states (in describing the operation) that the stone t*ing completely exposed, he passed in the forceps again, and took away the calculus without difficulty,” though he had done nothing more than dilating the gorget wound, which he thought had not been made sufficiently large, by a very slight effort with his finger. I do not think the stone had been encysted, not even by a false membrane, as here de- scribed by Chelius, but it seems to me corresponding precisely to the following cir- cumstance mentioned by Brodie “ It occasionally happens, that coagulated lymph is effused from the inflamed mucous membrane of the bladder. The inflamed raucous membrane also secretes the adhesive mucus which contains the phosphate ot lime. A portion of the phosphate of lime thus produced, mixed probably with some of the triple phosphate from the urine, is deposited on the lymph, and thus the incrustation tak place! It corresponds exactly to the incrustation of the wound of the perineum which occurs after lithotomy, where the operation is followed by the secretion of the same . ropy mucus from the bladder, (p. 2G0.) . A . m :n Brodie speaks of “ a class of cases which, being of rare occurrence do the present state of our knowledge to be of much practical importance, and quotes from a letter of Heister (b), “ the history of a patient who, having for a considerable time laboured under the symptoms of stone in the bladder, began to void by the uMhra what had all the appearance of portions of a larger calculus, broken down into fragmen of various shapes and sizes. The number of these fragments at lasit . than two hundred, and now the discharge ceased the symptoms.at the a^mieha g enhcldpd and the patient being restored to perfect health. In this instance, me charge of the fragments of the calculus was attributed to the use of th waters.’’ Prout mentions a case, in which, however, the same happened withoujtoe patient using mineral waters, or any kind of medicine; and Cross speaks alf0 fragments which he obtained from a gentleman after a ride on horeeback, as “ of twenty-two calculi removed after death, from a patient seventy i f g 1regular are of a very irregular shape, but admit of being so arrangedl *to.form‘ fcwrgwr and well-sbaped calculi, each of the size of a pigeon s egg, wh ^ ‘ b/^king of the different surfaces, proves that the calculi had broken w the trusted *tate of the aeainst each other under certain movements of the body. Iheinc ,the fractured surfaces proves, that the calculi were broken some time be ore ‘kjnd; in individual.” (p. 10.) Brodie, himself, has also seen three cases of the sani ; ^ one evident fragments of a larger calculus were voided by a young lady, • numerous email8calculi were voided next day after a journey, ^cb had tbe appe aC of having been recently broken, probably from the concussion of them against tbe other during the journey ; and a third, in which after or w , i: fragmrats having come away, the discharge of same time, relieved from all the symptoms under which he had lornur y (P,In°thc7 Museum at the Royal College of Surgeons there are several examples of similar broken stones.] In 2021 The symptoms of stone in the bladder are very •_ ^ (.VLk>MrfJcu*»,-»1.iii. ISM- mmT-,.1.™*^ against the other during the journey; and a third, in whicft alter orpf some mineral waters, “ he began to void with his urine broken P>e®“ “h irregular various shapes and sizes, but generally with one concave surface, amir 8 i ,,K as if tbe various lamina of which the calculi were composed bad $ghS beseparated from each other. After some time a pj “fie fragments having come away, the discharge tjtemcejeetl'