THE LATERAL OPERATION. 581 !. advantageous; care should, however, be taken to insert a pad between the neck and the bandage, otherwise the former will be unnecessarily wrung. In the operation for the stone it should also be specially remembered that handker- chiefs should be removed, and shirt-collars opened at the throat, or the patient, in his & struggles, may be choked, or at least much distressed ; and in holding him the" assist- ants should be careful not to make any pressure upon the chest. There is no necessity for special fixing the pelvis beyond that which the two assist- ants, standing on either side, are capable of; but if the patient be very powerful and »p restless a third assistant may fix his shoulders, by standing behind and grasping them h with either hand.—J. F. S.J 2076. The operation itself consists of the following acts :—a. the intro- duction of the staff: j3. the cut through the skin and muscles; y. open- d ing the membranous part of the urethra ; S. cutting into the neck of the d bladder; e. the drawing out the stone. 2077. The staff is to he introduced into the bladder, after having been i! oiled, in the same way as the catheter; the presence of the stone is at j once ascertained with it; but the operation should be put off if it cannot *» be distinctly felt. The staff must be held by an assistant, who, atthe same time lifts up the scrotum, either quite straight or inclined a little n towards the right side, or the operator himself holds it with his left hand {a). As the introduction of the staff, after the patient is put in I -he posture directed, is often very difficult, it may be passed before the Kherson is bound. ’ [Brodie mentions a remarkable instance of this kind which occurred to him “ The ? ^TCT dtlf0mCtimeSbe distinctly witb Ae sound, appearing to be of large size ' ±ta °ther TS U n0t be fdt at a11! and sometimes when the bladder was’ of urine, rt could be perceived distinctly with the finger from the rectum ■ tit3*?*- pme*> wben tbe.re was urine in the bladder, it could not be detected at I l„,b.y.th's m°de of examination. In performing the operation,” says he “when I • fJl i med “y fiDger iDt,° ‘he bladder’ 1 coald at fi™t discover no*stone. AtTast J. felt it on the anterior part of the bladder, behind the pubes. It was not Ivine Ioosp b! 8 .ladder h °f b'adder’.but evidently contained in a cyst, communicating^vith the iS a round opening. By means of a probe-pointed bistoury, I cTrefullv e(* I ?n^ce cyst, and then introducing my finger separated thp ’ 'rane of \\ from the calculus, until I was enabled to take hofd of Xe s!oL with X Ij mtQ31”121 tlme tblrteen years old> was operated on successfully.—J. F. sT ’ ^ |j, , ,lhe cut through the skin and muscles is commenced in adult* 1 ;.om fweive to fifteen, in young people, from nine to twTe,7n boys from I o seven, and in children, five lines above the anus on thp wf i c some,li,,es sr? •*. - jvvnwaids, parallel with the ascending branch of the haunclf-bone ..nd at roper distance from it to the middle of a line supposed“drawn I i»l h?h!T' ,0 ‘ 16 ,S,C'",al tuberosi‘y- The first stroke of the knife « -mite so ow" .tissuc- “0» seco"<i. extending ■e%fou r rissso thi;5k^r“K 2 £ ith L volar smLe7, 8 1 ^ ’?f' ,a,lcl- that fi"ger « to be placed f■> . I Sd . Is o 6 pal,er“ S side- at tlm upper angle ns, laid. Clted- P- 15— Dvaon,, Propositions sur diverses parties do 1’Art do ytwrir.