348 TREATMENT OF PHIMOSIS. wash is put between the edges of the wound, and the prepuce kept re tracted as much as possible till the cure. . 1661 In the treatment of phimosis arising from inflammation, its thre stages may be observed; first, swelling and inflammation of the gUxn which can be got rid of by the proper application of antiphlogistic remedies second, such considerable swelling that the urethra is compressed, part* stricture thereby produced, and if unrelieved, abscess ulcerations of th urethra, extravasation of urine, and gangrene of the coverings ensue third when the chronic phimosis cannot be altered or got rid of, the glar, and the prepuce become firmly connected. In such case the prepuce ha often entirely lost its cellular structure, and is thickened; the surface., the plans is covered with warts, shrivelled, the proper opening of th urethra scarcely to be found, and the glans often nearly entirely separate from the spongy body by a deep pit (a). . . . 1662 The treatment of phimosis caused by simple exconation c putrefaction of the cheeselike matter, requires frequent injections of wan water with a little liq.plumbi acet., frequently bathing the^m* in luke warm milk and water, and placing it against the belly, and also leech. atT distance from the inflamed parts. When the inflammation subside slightly astringent injections may be used. If any hard swelling remai. about the aperture of the prepuce, it is best to rub in mercurial ointme. with camphor, and in cedematous swelling, bags of aromatic herbs, strewe* Wi1663.mSyphilitic phimosis, depending on chancre or clap first require corresponding antiphlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeching, so Doultices and luke-warm injections, in order to wash out the matter co fected^between the prepuce and glans. As soon as the inflammation^ swelling subside, mercury is to be used externally and eternally^ . used earlier, there might be transition to gangrene. If with veneres clap and chancre phimosis be feared, it can often e Prev^ J tj ouent purifying injections, quietude, and laying the penis straj^t upon S P If after the inflammation, swelling, and narrowing of the preput have ceased, its growing together must be prevented by fiequen ) in°- backwards and forwards. . . . ,. keeDh increased inflammation and gangrene; °ff about the cu increased, and sometimes growths difficult to get rid^of a - bgneath tl The oneration is only called for when the pus is . . • „nd a nrenuce tot it cannot bo washed out by injection and K get an outlet by ulceration. In such case, however « “J',,,. sary to divide the whole prepuce, but it is generally s ^ ai enlarge the aperture of the prepuce so much tot the pi - dling injections be admitted. If the retained matter form a large J (a) Travers, above cited. i » ei s» ■im > *n -on O iKf uf •du ui xla oi