TREATMENT 344 with cedema. Phimosis may also be produced by any chronic swelling and thickening of the prepuce, as in hardening, in scirrhous or any othei degeneration. 1651. The symptoms caused by such phimosis vary according to iti ! degree and its cause. In venereal ulcers upon the corona glandis, if th< pus be retained, the prepuce may be gradually eaten through, and the ] whole glans often protrudes through the hole. The inflammation may rur ; on to gangrene, which is particularly to be feared in adults, and if mer cury have been previously and frequently used ; the urine collected beneatl the prepuce may cause excoriation, may be effused into the cellular tissu. of the whole penis, and producing gangrene, cause its destruction. lhi swelling may even be so great that the glans and urethra may be partiallwl compressed. If the inflammatory stage pass by, a chronic phimosis mat remain, in which there is a hard, cartilaginous swelling of the prepuce, o; i growing together of the prepuce and glans. Should the obstruction t< > the voidance of the urine by the narrowness of the prepuce, affect UhJI bladder and urethra, distension, weakness, and even palsy ol those partita may be produced. 1652. The treatment of phimosis consists in removing the narrowing by operation ; or in phimosis, accompanied with inflammation, by remedial j capable of diminishing the swelling of the prepuce and glans. In chil* dren this operation is only called for when there is complete closure of tbl prepuce, or the congenital phimosis is to such degree that it prevents tb discharge of the urine, and in adults, when, besides the voidance of the - ui-ine, the discharge of the semen is also stopped, connexion painful, or w the orifice of the prepuce have a cartilaginous ring. If the narrowing of the prepuce he only slight, softening rubbin^-m, bathing, anI; repeated daily attempts to retract the prepuce, are sufficient to wideri its orffi s!L Particular instruments have been also used, for this purpose (6). p ever, always tedious, painful, and can only in a few cases be effective. 1653. The two usual modes of operating for phimosisr are circumcime and slitting up the prepuce, with or without removal of theflaps. lt- congenital phimosis be distended by collection of the urine, it is sufficien to thrust in a lancet at the under and fore part of the prepuce, ^V1 1 injuring the glans, and then, after every discharge of urine, to insert ■ little plug into the aperture for a time. . I 1654. Circumcision (Circumcisio, Lat. ; Beschneidung, Cerm., 1 concision, Fr.) consists in the operator taking hold of the Prepuce, a . and below, with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, so tha ¥ are about a line distant from the glans; an assistant draws bac fold of the prepuce, as far as possible, to the root of the pen , ^ q presses the glam with his thumb and finger; the operator then, cu*o that part of the prepuce »Inch he holds,. with “ 3 cautiously, that he do not injure the glans The size of the p ^ removed must depend on the length of the prepuce, and ^ of its narrowing and thickening; too little, however, must not ^ as, if so, the inflammation following the operation oawtyP c)ain, narrowing. It is superfluous to hold the part to be cut o s ti as recommended by some practitioners. If, as almost ahvays h pp« ^ outer fold of the prepuce be retracted further than the mne, must also be cut off to correspond. The bleeding, which is often ,pl.xxvi.f.a. Lodeh, above cited, p. 90. (fc) IIxisteb ; Instit. Chirurg.,