MEDULLARY FUNGUS OF BONE. 718 ceedingly delusive. In its subsequent course the swelling is at some pai hard, and at other parts very soft, as if it would soon burst. The vei of the scrotum swell, and the skin becomes discoloured. The glands s the groin on the affected side, or upon both sides, swell up, and the tumo proceeds along the spermatic cord into the belly. The reaction of til disease upon the general condition of the patient is so great that dea may ensue even before the ulceration and protrusion of the fungus. I have seen a case, in which a puncture having been made into a medullary funi of the testicle by another Surgeon, with the object of performing the palliative cure t hydrocele, although the puncture remained open till I subsequently performed tion, and bloody ichor continued flowing, yet no fungus appeared. Upon medullary fungus of the testicle, may be consulted— Gierl, M., Ueber den Fungus, die Struma Testiculi, u. s. w.; in Neue Chirr vol. i. p. 273. Cooper, Astley, Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, p. 1: London, 1830. 4to. Hertzberg, Ueber Schwamm des Hodens; in von Graefe und von Walthep Journal, vol. xiv. p. 283. Baring, Ueber Markschwamm des Hodens. Gottingen, 1833. Curling, Blizard, A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, &c., p. 3; London, 1843. 8vo. 2296. All the bones may be attacked with medullary fungus, whit may originate either between the external surface of the bone and tli periosteum, or in the interior of the bone (1). In the former case the i appears a small, hard, and generally painless tumour beneath the perk teum, which softens as it increases, displaces the parts, intereferes wi or destroys the functions of the limb to various degrees, becomes painft and may grow to an enormous size. I have seen two cases in which tl: swelling occupied the whole thigh-bone, the periosteum was raised five •. i six inches, but the surface of the bone was little changed. T he bone ; however, frequently, and especially about the circumference of the svvel \ ing, beset with many fine needles or plates, which spring like rays frop| the surface of the bone, and penetrate into the interior of the swelUnjj If the fungus be developed in the interior of the bone, it not merely hi I up its tube, but renders the bony tissue atrophic, so that it is merely su-1 rounded by a thin shell of bone, which is ultimately burst through; sue. bones, therefore, break on the slightest injury.—(Muller.) [ (1) Medullary fungus of bone lias been well described by Astley Cooper (<A 1 a species of exostosis, under the name, according to its beginning in one or ot P“J of the bone, of Fungous Exostosis of the Medullary Membrane and Fungous p Exostosis.] 2297. The examination of the tumour after death, or after its remova j presents different results, according to the degree of its development. ] the interior there is found a soft substance, which is often scarcely dwcerni ibly divided into larger and smaller lobes by fine cellular tissue, nornf geneous, milk-white, at some parts usually a little reddish, resembling^J medullary substance of the brain, and when cut into thin layers, se ^ transparent. Its consistance is similar to that of the human brain tissue, however, is generally little connected, and it easily breaksjj the fingers. In proportion as the substance is more or less loosen ^ it exhibits more or less resemblance to certain parts of the brain; hu (a) In his and Travers's Surgical Essays, part i. p. 179, and p. 194. Third Edition.