720 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. nowhere spots like pus-globules, and are much larger, being ^th of a millimetre i * diameter, whilst the pus-globules are only T^th. About two-thirds of the medullar substances are made up of these corpuscles. When the fungus becomes larger, then , are still distinguished a quantity of large irregular particles, which all have dusk and pale lines; perhaps here, instead of corpuscles, only irregular bodies and fibrou matter have been capable of being formed, differing according to the organ affectecJ The greater the quantity of medullary corpuscles and medullary substance deposite e in the fungus, the greater is its softness, even to fluidity; and then occurs the illusiv feel of fluctuation, which can only be distinguished from that of pus, in that the cob;, lections of the latter are isolated, whilst the medullary corpuscles are infiltrated betwee i the several primitive fibres. If, however, but little medullary fluid be depositee - the tissue retains its ordinary hardness and consistence. A very remarkable circum stance is the presence of medullary corpuscles in the entire substance of an orgai where only some small fungi, or even none at all, exist, whilst they are present i other parts of the same individual. The medullary substance operates destructively just like gangrene, upon the tissue in which it is collected, if it have affected it lonr enough. The fibres of the organ retain their usual direction, but in small fungi ar separated by close-lying particles, and when more advanced, fibres can no longer b • traced. In all these forms of fungus, there are numerous rhomboidal crystals of ^th of a millimetre, mean diameter, commonly in groups, but in quite fresh fungus they ar. scattered, on which account they must be sought for. In the development of inflammation, the whole swelling, or part of it, distended wit. blood presents newly-developed thick nets of capillary vessels, and the medullary cor. puscles are mixed with compound corpuscles. Fibrous matter may also be close!;, deposited in the fungus, and so give it the appearance of a scirrhous degeneration Concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves the medullary corpuscles in part, and then remain only little dusky bodies; in like manner hydrochloric acid exhibits a flocky granular substance. Alcohol coagulates the medullary fluid, and the medullary cor puscles, like those of pus, become still more distinct, without changing their shape. Aceti acid dissolves the medullary corpuscles but very slowly, which is done much mor ouicklv in pus-corpuscles. The crystals dissolve in sulphuric so completely as to leav. a sediment; whilst in nitric and hydrochloric acid, on the contrary, they do not dissolv dt The medullary substance exists also in the fluids of the human body. Gujot> observed in one case, in the blood-clot of the right iliac vein, an undoubted medullary mass; the walls of the vein were healthy, and led to no diseased organ. ,* eS 1 L i ni rta aw ni to MS rtX li a hi (S£ 2298. The tumour presses the neighbouring parts together, the muscle are often completely enclosed in the substance, and as it were marbles with it. The whole mass is surrounded with a cellular investment more or less distinct, according as it is developed in an organ, of which the cellular tissue is of a tougher or more yielding nature. The externa form is in these cases generally round, sometimes flattened, egg-shapea* sometimes quite irregular, and its external surface divided into lobes, whicn are separated by more or less deep furrows. Laennec, as also Ckuvk; ■ hier,. found the brain-like substance contained in cysts, of which the wai- were pretty even, scarcely more than half a line thick, of a grayish w 1 silvery or milk-white colour, and semi-transparent, in their structure resembling cartilage, and so firmly connected with the brain-like mass, they could not be easily separated. . , ,anrf 2299. In medullary Fungus of the Testicle, the brain-like substance has crenerally a pale-brownish or reddish colour; oftentimes the w testicle is converted into a mass of this kind. Often this mass const many parts, very different from each other in reference to their tissu®’ separated by thin membranous partitions from each other: some po , 2eSt, otlL hard, and some actually bonju If this substance be r in water, a soft cellular tissue remains. 1 he partitions are g J united to the tunica albuginea; but sometimes they are separafe, the interspace is filled with water. In the bones, the swelling mos