PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. 113 Felpeau and Berard have performed Ireland’s modified operation, but they also removed a third slip from the front of the vagina («). [It has been a dispute with whom this operation originated. Velpeau, in his Clinical jecture just cited, says, that “ the first idea of this operation is due to Gerardin, who '.escribed it in a memoir which he presented to the Socicte de Me'decine de Metz ou de sTancy, which however was never published. He proposed to contract the vagina, and f necessary even to obliterate it, in women in whom the catamenia had ceased. He ound many opponents to his ideas, -which were rejected.” (p. 276.) Velpeau does not aention in what manner it was proposed to effect the contraction of the vagina, neither oes Gerardin himself in his letter to the Academie (&), in which he says, that • before 1823 he had proved that the pessary might be replaced by and the cure of pro- ipsed womb radically effected by a surgical operation.” It is therefore just possible, aough not very probable, that Marshall Hall might have been aware of Gerardin’s nggestion before he proposed and had his operation performed by Hemming (c) in the utumn of 1831.—j. f. s. (1) Dieffenbach (d) made use of the actual cautery for the cure of prolapsed womb ; ut not being satisfied with it, has laid it aside. Lawrie of Glasgow, however, men- ons (e) the case of a girl of eighteen, who had prolapsed womb suddenly produced y carrying a heavy tub ; nitrate of silver was freely applied, astringent injections and ther remedies used, and strips of the mucous membrane dissected off the sides and ack of the vagina, but without benefit. He then, having dilated with Weiss’s speculum, pplied the actual cautery on either side of the vagina, nearly as high as the womb, 'he operation was very painful, the external parts became cedematous, she had retention f urine, some pain in the belly, and hysterical symptoms, which readily yielded to lild treatment. She was kept in the recumbent posture for six weeks ; and left the ospital nine weeks after the operation, without the least tendency to the renewal of rolapse ; but having a circular contraction of the vagina, just below the womb. Nine lonths after, the protrusion recurred, after long standing and unwonted exercise. The ctual cautery was again applied, the same symptoms produced, but subsided, after one deeding, aperients, fomentations, &e. She was kept in bed for nine months: then ■lowed to get up, wearing a compress in the nmnm/m and a t i...„,.,i —„ I