900 TREATMENT OF PARTICULAR CONDITION'S burning, the heat much raised, the redness of the edges of the skin an. jl wound°very slight, the patient exceedingly restless, the pulse contracted and quick, and the countenance anxious, ice-cold water must be applied tu* the stump, till the heat be diminished, and internally aqua lauro-cerasoM opium with nitre, almond milk, oily mixtures and purgative clyster^ must be given, and the patient should take light nourishing food. It th I inflammation be accompanied with erythism, leeches and emulsions with! camphor and nitre must be employed. ■ The cause of death after amputation, is not unfrequently inflammation of the vessels * in some cases the veins, in others the arteries are m darned, often cn en to the lieart an * sometimes filled with pus. In such instances, the stump is excessively tender, accom panied with severe shiverings, and very depressing sweats. Local bloodletting and col j applications, with calomel internally, must be here used. 2703. An insufficient degree of inflammation, or a torpid state, in w hicl j the stump is little or not at all painful, the wannth little, even less than* natural, the wound flabby and pallid, with a frequent secretion of serouj or clammy ichor, the patient very much depressed, and the pulse ler small, weak, and quick, requires both a general and 'oc'ai M^ngthemnt and exciting mode of treatment. The stump must be bathed with spi rituous aromatic remedies, covered with aromatic poultices, mixed vy U camphor, the dressings moistened with spirit of camphor, or of tmpenti the edges of the wound washed with them, and some even injected into it 2704. Sloughing requires various treatment according to its caus . ^2705. In copious suppuration, strengthening remedies must he both internally and externally. If collections of pus form, its free escap* should to the utmost be provided for. With this view a partt of t lei not being drawn together with sticking plaster, the pus should be en p by moderate pressure and injections, and a proper bandage applied. It i ^rSr^r^“the result of an improperly per formed operation, in which too little soft parts are p«jrvec^ with difficulty drawn over the bone; or copious suppuration a 1 state come J, in wUch the muscles anti retract. In the former case, if the muscular surface itself * ject in a rounded form, nothing can be done but wai mg fo^tl e(,^ an, tion of the bone, to promote which, the marrow the pfojectin} a bougie dipped in spirits of wine, thrust m o i s . j the super bone must be sawn off. But if the muscular mass do protrude h p» ficial muscles must be pressed back, a portion of those * j, bone removed, and the bone itself sawn off at th® nectt > £lt fron the latter case, I have almost invariably fserved a fatal reS|^ . wasting suppuration. Proper general and local treatment o ^ I state and when it is removed, and the soft parts have no PI j, | selves over the bone, which, however, I have frequently noticed to* o « above-mentioned destruction of the marrow m the proje^.gP^ tfc J bone, for the purpose of encouraging its e^oUation, ^ * 1 hmip is the only thing which can be done, 1 uJimg the pro, £ muscles and skin, by bandaging, will not in this»case FJ' ^ imidl trusion of the bone ; on the contrary every b...c age w hmh » as , pressure, and draws the parts together renders increases the consuming suppuration and the wasting < - P