211 BY COMPRESSION. at its end, graduated the pressure on the vessel at will. The pain at first prevented its constant application; but, by gradually accustoming himself to it, and increasing the force, he succeeded in weakening, and then in preventing the pulsations of the swelling which became adherent, hardened, and reduced to a little tubercle, formed doubtless by the coagulated blood, and adherent to the inside of the aneurysmal sac. The practice of Professor Dubois presents many instances of success by the same means.” (pp. 95, 6.) Compression for the cure of aneurysm, has, however, been little thought of, or employed in this country, till within the lust four yeurs, when it was revived by Hutton, of Dublin (a), for a case of popliteal aneurysm, as large as a hen’s egg, as the patient would not submit to the operation of tying the femoral artery. “ For three or four weeks he maintained the horizontal posture, and a compress and bandages were applied • nit, as the tumour gradually increased in size, and as he suffered pain from the pressure’ :lus treatment was.discpntmued ” On the 1st Nov. 1842, Hutton therefore applied an ustrument, ‘so contrived as to admit of pressure being made by a screw and pad upon he course of the femoral artery, and the counter-pressure upon the opposite surface of he limb, without interfering with the collateral circulation. In the first instance, the •ompression was made upon the femoral artery in the middle third of the thigh • and fCtUa m C,0mPressin/ this vessel, it produced so much uneasiness that .“fj “ott,be sus,amed> and after a few applications, the apparatus was removed, and f*th oPPer ?art °f t,he imb' Nov- 12, The femoral artery was compressed as r.T l pdmS 7der Podpart’s ligament, and the pressure maintained for • ,th 7/’ 10Utr,S- Nov' 14' The tumour feels rather more solid; the purring f r 0n the re-entrance of the blood into the sac, is no longer sensible ; thf b.etfore- Nov. 22. Duration of compression three hours; the pulsation n,r, d a.Pter ltS removal- Nov. 24. Artery compressed six hours: same result He niimour £ 7eSThepnpnXt daJ -°r SorenesVn tbe gr0in ; and be had some Paiu in the lUimoui. Nov. 26. The compression resumed, and continued for four hours ; when the istrument was removed, the pulsation had ceased in the tumour, which felt solid and ze and wS' soUd uowfeltln ‘he tumour. It had decreased in nn ft.lt ZT d' • N 7 6 compression was maintained for six hours ; no pulsa- [“5 impress,on applied three hours. Dec. 1. An artery, about the size of the ^mporal, is felt pulsating along the surface of the tumour, which is quite solid much Kd l tumour reduced to the size of a small walnut, and 't/r* *i / • ^as . .y discharged at his own request.” fpp. 364, 65 Verv ennn Her; “at'a hb h n P-P fd 1118 ^ument, the pad being screwed down on the femoral Sons in th. t P 38 P°SSlble’ and with a tnree sufficient to stop completely the ssMsil . his heart, and a sensadon of a r7h of iS t" 7 Sf70n °f the Pad’ tuning up tljirspiration on the forehead and vertex tu • Z° *1S bead’ accompanied by profuse .|llied. When quite SevereTZT a 5 6 lns.trument now loosened, and lie soon id for more than half 7 hour at tb^.pad,^a® again screwed down ; but he could not bear ■ e patient screwing down tl, lme- The apparatus was continued for five days i 4uned,it wi put Lffie lnd JftPai 38 he bear but no benefit having been I. arch, heZFgen takiSten7r™fnfP77 Fr™ 7-22nd JanuaiT to the^th of (MJfe tumour. March 18 Rp-u-s th e • 7 neurlsm > 110 compress or bandage was put on B' ^ Jo the h«a?‘V'f iUXnpT1' ^"tr,h»n tat; has Ti cf :1 'mou.r is decidedly harder and smaller tl7 ha"ge,ln the tumour. March 22. The in?s? «■ At>- f V y. . UU51'1 } At IU (n) ublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xxiii. 1843. r 2