818 DIAGNOSIS bleedings. The general health is much affected ; all the symptoms o cancerous consumption, with the characteristic leaden countenance, mak their appearance, and death ensues, either quickly, or alter a sever, bleeding, or as is usual, under the horrible tortures of hectic consump' On examination of this advanced state of the disease, the vaginal por- tion is found ulcerated, more or less destroyed, beset with warty growth, and hard knots, which ascend into the cavity of the neck of the womb Sometimes the womb itself, sometimes the upper part of the vagina u hard and degenerated ; the ulceration may even extend to the rectum ant bladder, in consequence of which the sufferings become more severe. rm “The popular opinion, that cancer of the womb is invariably accompaniedb; acute suffering0^,’’ observes Ashwell, “certainly incorrect But it is tru th in some instances scarcely any infliction can equal, and certainly none can exceed, it aeonSing burning* and lancinating pain. - * * By most the pam is describedtob lancinating as though sharp knives were constantly being plunged into the neck of t womb- and so constant is this characteristic, that some authors tound on it the diaguw and cancer. There are, however, not a few cases m whichth hot burning character constitutes its great aggravation. In the milder form , A ' “ vprv stnw the pain is wearing and constant, but endurable, (p. 4140 S Cavoe%), “ are sometimes so acute, that petaon have been Kn to die of convulsions, or delirium, occasioned by cerebral fever. KS, accompanied with slight pain and tenderness on pressure oner the stoma but in the malignant ulceration, commencing in th. inchuated'Teposit of the urethra, extended ijntofte Si1" BSS. i Se expectations were a. Mr height, Pgj Sdd“'! Zt inexplicably recurred, and the patient sank ,n less than a week. (p. )j 2508. Cancer of the womb, like cancer in genera ,- «toM»| n» in its nroaress ; in persons with dense fibre, it is ratner_ me F “ ZceJln of scirrhous parts, but in pasty persons it is most.; accompanied with fungous growths and very copious bkedmgs. The^ diaanosis is in general easy, and ti.e more so as the practitioner usually only first consulted when the disease lias made some ProgrH| Tlmse diseased conditions, which at first have some resmblance^t cancer of the womb, but are easily distinguishable, are“fl q and benignant hardening, steatomatous (fibrous) degeneration, the womb, polyp, and medullary fungus. . n r,ARKE(cl [The “ Cauliflower Excrescence from the Os Uteri,” as it is ca e 7 ' nl0rbit is a form of disease by some regarded as truly cancerous and by others.^ gjjip tissue, not necessarily of a malignant or carcinomatous nature. ^ r^erence tc RON observes:—“A inimber of circumstances appear to me to s > , tter authors 1 . i . tbe first stage of cauliflower excrescence, the opinion o ■ twentietl at least, tne nrs B occurrence of the disease in some cases as early astne . probably coi re . shrinking, and almost total disappearance upon* jP?,, 7™ of fliVtamreTr after death; the frequent slowness of ts general pro^d part; r°ath°e apparent absence of diseased deposits in the iieigdibounng . of the tumour in one (a) Quoted by Ash^u am, c),irurgic#1 Knowledge. [(•) Trau^ctions'^' a sC?ctyVfor Uie improve-