500 HYDROCELE;TREATMENT is not thereby cured, but after a time reappears, the rent in the tunic having probat i 4| healed up.] 1940. The situation of the testicle must be ascertained before puna t turing the hydrocele : it usually lies at the upper and hinder part of t ] swelling, and the best place for the puncture is the fore and under pa:- ■> The testicle, however, may be situated elsewhere, it may be connect with the front of the vaginal tunic, in which case, a puncture at anoth a part is most proper. The puncture is always to be made in the midc ii line of the swelling, because, in old hydroceles especially, the several vessi- t of the cord are often driven out of their place. According to Richter (c % the swelling is sometimes oblique, or even completely transverse, j that in hydrocele of the left side, the puncture must be made on t . i right side of the scrotum. In large hydroceles, a narrower part of t :< swelling sometimes extends upwards, even as high as the abdominal rin 1 Under these circumstances, a part of the canalis tutiiccB vaginalis is di ;4 tended, and by the puncture of the larger swelling, the water escapes fro this diverticulum. In children, in whom the puncture is rarely necessaraj the testicle generally is lower than in adults, the puncture must therefoia be made rather higher than usual. The enlarged blood-vessels of tlij scrotum must be avoided in making the puncture. 1941. The patient must be placed on a seat, so that the scrotum mt1 hang down loose. The Surgeon grasps the swelling at its hind part, anl tightens the skin, whilst an assistant places his hand at the upper part n the swelling, and presses the water down. The operator holds a tk: trocar in his right hand, and puts the forefinger of the same hand on i i canula, to within half or three-quarters of an inch from its point, and the thrusts the trocar in rather obliquely upwards at the place determine ;. When it is ascertained, by the resistance ceasing, that the trocar has pen- trated the cavity, the point of the trocar is to be withdrawn, and tl : canula thrust in deeper into the vaginal tunic. The trocar having bet -• withdrawn, the canula is to be held steadily, so that it do not escape fro. ; the vaginal tunic whilst the water passes off. If there be a large collet > tion of fluid, its flow must be often checked by placing the finger on tl i aperture of the canula, so that the testicle should not be too quickly ri i lieved from pressure. When the emptying is completed, the canula is t- 1 be gently withdrawn, whilst the edges of the wound are held togetht j with the finger and thumb of the other hand; and afterwards is to tl closed with sticking plaster, and the parts supported in a bag truss. The elder Travers (h) has endeavoured to effect the radical cure of hydrocele wit * simple punctures. The scrotum is made tense with one hand, the patient being s * placed that the light may pass through the swelling, to avoid the veins, or an :< thickened and adhering part. The punctures are to be made with an acupunctut i needle, or what is still better, with a fine trocar, at equal distances, very' quicKl 1 after each other, so that the tension of the scrotum may be kept up. The pnnflF J point in the operation Travers holds to be the trifling discharge of fluid, and lb I escape of the remainder into the m. cremaster and cellular tissue. On the third, cj even on the second day sometimes, the fluid is absorbed, and only when, on account c i the smallness of the punctures, but a few drops escape, is the cure delayed beyond j month, or even it does not succeed; but in a large number, the cure is effected. 1 Lewis (c) considers a single puncture more efficacious and less dangerous. I n» I never witnessed a cure by these means in very many cases. , «• 1 [I have employed this treatment several times, and like Chelics, have not foun j ra-\ Anfanraeriinde der Wundarzncik., vol. vl. (6) London Medical Gazette, vobxi** P- Eg. (c) Lancet, 1S35-36, vol. ii. P- 206.