GROWING TOGETHER OF CONES, especially applies to the false anchylosis of the knee; it may, however ■ employed in other joints. ’ ' the various apparatus forextending the knee-joint (Stromeyer, Dry., Bouvier, and others) I think Stuetter’s the most preferable. (2 ) APfnvflinrr frv Ttminn C* n n i i ! . y ~ ^ muoi pi ClCI HUltJ. (-) According to Berard, (a) of twenty-two cases of false anchylosis, treated * Louvrxer s method, three were fatal, on account of the severity of the violence; in neitW was a well-formed joint produced; in the greater number there was dislocation rf the knee backwards, and always renewed though slight contraction. lot 2. In contractions of the knee-joint the patient is laid on his bellv that the crooked knee may project beyond the edge of the table. The tendons, having been rendered very tort by violently pulling the leg, are- cut through beneath the skin, and the limb bent so strongly that the bee1 shall touch the buttock. It is then again forcibly extended, and agaiflw flexed, and this backward and forward motion is continued till the limb U> straightened. Sometimes there is a loud crack, from the false connexions : being thus torn through. In grown persons it often requires the united i strength of three or four men, to break the knee-joint perfectly straight, t Even in a case of true anchylosis, consequent on a penetrating wound oJ i the joint, and its resulting suppuration, the breaking through of the; united knee-joint, and the straightening of the limb, is required (Dief- : fenbach.) Immediately after the extension of the limb is effected, the ; knee-joint should be covered with pads, enveloped in a flannel roller, laic t upon a padded hollow splint, and the splint and limb fastened together 9 with a second flannel bandage. On reapplying the apparatus, the limb musi ; be carefully cleansed, and in replacing it, much local pressure must lx avoided, or slough of the skin will quickly ensue. After completion o: t the cure, the straight stiff joint must be carefully bathed and rubbed withi suet. In many instances, if the joint again become flexible, the patient may be able to walk without halting (Dieffenbach.) 15 i 3. Very severe symptoms may result from this violent extension o i the limb, great inflammation, with its consequences may ensue, so as t< render amputation necessary, and may even cause death. These emergencies as well as the more or less favourable result of the operation rests, inde ? pendent of the constitution of the patient, especially on the changes whicl # have occurred in the joint itself and in the neighbouring parts. In con i tractions already long existing, and accompanied with great alteration o * the joint, there is always a dislocation of the leg upon the thigh, fron ■ within outwards, or from without inwards ; the shin-bone often gets unde u the thigh-bone, so that the foot is shortened, the knee-cap very prominent h and the ham less hollow; the condyle of the thigh-bone is often curve* m backwards, the whole limb wasted and atrophic. In such cases littl* t violence is needed to dislocate the leg backwards. Even when by sucl alteration of the joint, the straight posture is effected, it has a most im tsf perfect result, as the joint always remains more or less bent, the leg mor i)j or less placed behind the thigh, and the patient is only able to go on a crutch q In long-continued contraction of the knee-joint, the popliteal artery may b so considerably shortened, that extension of the limb cannot be effect61 4 without tearing it. (Chassaignac.) The splint-bone may be also so fas a connected witii one or other condyle of the thigh, or may be so thrust i i between the shin- and thigh-bone, as to render the straightening of th 1 limb impossible. If the contraction of the joint be only consequent on | 00 Gazette Medicate do Paris, vol. ix. p. 324. Paris, 1841.