221 POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. somewhat lower. This last ligature was then tied, the first being left loose to secure us against accident. The threads being separated and secured, the wound was lightly dressed, the tumour left in its natural situation, and the patient put to bed with the loss of only four or five ounces of blood during the operation. No pulsation could be 1 perceived in the tumour after the ligature was tied.” (p. 401-403.) He went on well till the seventh day, when it is stated “ the tumour grew thinner at one point and seemed as if disposed to ulcerate the integuments. On the evening of the eighth day he became fever- ish.” On the tenth day “ the tumour was very thin in one part, and a fluctuation evidently to be felt. The limb was warm and movable, but the patient was feverish and delirious at uight.” In this state he continued till the twelfth day, when he became sensible. “ The tumour burst and discharged serum and grumous blood; he fainted; the dressings were not disturbed ; he slept composedly; fainted again about six o’clock in the evening, and ;xpired.” (pp. 404, 405.) The examination after death, in this case, showed “the blood in the tumour very putrid, and the greater part of it fluid; it appeared to be dissolved jy putrefaction. Water injected by the external iliac artery escaped freely from the .vound at the ligature, where the artery was open, and appeared to have ulcerated at hat part. In dilating the artery from the ligature to the heart, its internal surface ippeared of a bright red. This appearance lessened at the curvature of the aorta, yet ,t was very evident in its semilunar valves. The arteria profunda, which passed off from the femoral artery rather less than half an inch above the ligature, was also |nflamed within.” There were nearly two inches of the femoral artery between the ligature and the aneurismal sac. (pp. 405, 6.) It may be here added, on Sir Astley Cooper's authority, that the femoral artery in the space between the ligature and the urofunda contained no clot, which he considered to have depended on the nearness of he latter artery to the ligature having prevented the formation of an internal clot, by he continuous flow of blood into that vessel. I am, however, by no means sure hat this was really the case ; it is very true that in the preparation which is in St, Thomas s Museum no clot is apparent, as the femoral artery is slit upwards from the ligature to its full extent; but it seems very probable that by the injection of the water hat a clot might easily have been disturbed, and when the vessel was laid open that it tight have dropped out unnoticed, as at the time of this case, such a circumstance was lot much thought of. (2) The importance of opening the sheath to the least possible extent, which its omplete isolation and the application of the ligature,will admit, cannot be too strongly impressed Nor less important is doing this with the least possible disturbance of the tsition of the vessel, which ought never to he lifted up nor dragged, as too frequently lone. I think it is best after opening the sheath, to separate the artery gently with the .irector previous to passing the aneurysmal needle behind it. Some persons prefer Jeschamps needle, the curve of which will be found to require adaptation correspond- nt with the depth and situation of the artery. Others prefer a blunt-pointed flexible uver needle without a handle, for the introduction of the ligature. I do not think it , mnch consequence which is employed; it is the dexterity and knowledge of the •urgeon, not the instrument that he employs, upon which the proper performance of the *' T)er‘l.tlon depends. Especial care should also be taken that no nerve be included in l ®/t’:gtt,Ure ii a!ld lf.the Pftient should express great pain at the time the thread is rst tightened, there is good reason to believe this has been done, and it will be neces- | Jit® Carefful examination and even loosen the knot, to be sure of the perfect l °‘, on °f artery, otherwise dangerous symptoms will ensue. The size of the ■gature should accord with that of the artery to be tied. As to the material, A™ ,IER l"3*3 accustomcd t0 use Dutch twine, but round strong silk is generally Kd’ and •!? Stren,g.th tested before it is applied, or it may break upon the artery hold*?} a<j?f?eint wb,ch i have witnessed more than once or twice. The artery r thumbs AU '-ftCid iup frT lts bed m makinS the knots, but the ends of the forefingers eedfuWA carried dowi; the wound to it, and then the tie made. Nor do I believe it urpose as ith'Lh^nf‘ c*ceedl!lgI/ ,t5ght as commonly recommended for the hat the whole of the intern^ rouSh tlie internal coat; it should be drawn so much, hould indent the J'xtemlVcoIi Af fi^ brough.t lnt° close contact, and that the silk led moderatedv iffht l l I -10 Tw1 ’ “ othf words, the ligature should be olutely necessary for the lie7e that ^“g thr°ugh the internal coat is abso- arotid artery of i dorr i ‘PP lcatlon ot ,a ligature. A thread applied around the efficient to cause tnflammatinr^T v T n ?"teffe.re with passage of the blood, is n experimermad7bTmfr;I ’f "(l!‘ bl°ck U “P completely, as was proved by cpeated with the like result mastei>the younger Cline, and which I myself have