[ 84 ] IV.—OF VENTRAL RUPTURE. . (Hernia ventralis, Lat.; Bauchbruch, Germ.; Hernie ventrale, Fr.) Garengeot, Sur plusieurs Hernies singulieres; in Memoires de l’Aeademie de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 699. Pipelet, Nouvelles Observations sur les Hernies de la Vessie et de l’Estomac; in the same, vol. iv. p. 188. La Chausse, B. J., Dissert, de hernia ventrali. Argent., 1746. Klinkosch, Progr. quo divisionem herniarum novamque hernia ventralis speciem proponit. Prag., 1764. Soemmering, S. T., Ueber die Briiche am Bauche und Becken, ausser der Nabel-und Leistengegend. Frankfort, 1811. Cooper Astley, above cited, part ii. p. 49. 1236. A Ventral Rupture is that which protrudes through an unnatural opening on the front or side of the belly. This rupture is much more rare than either of those already mentioned. It takes place through openings in the abdominal muscles, and their aponeuroses; most commonly in the space between the two m. recti, more rarely on the sides of the belly, from the hip-bone to the last rib, and in the lumbar region (.Lumbar Rupture) (1). The causes of this rupture are the ordinary occasional causes of rupture, with existing relaxation of the abdominal walls, especially of the white line, after many pregnancies, in quick emaciation after previous stoutness ; or it is caused by tearing of the muscles and aponeuroses, at the parts where scars have formed (2). Or the entire walls of the belly often spread into a sac which contains intestines (3). These ruptures are generally provided with a hernial sac, except when they are consequent on pre- vious wounding of the peritoneum. [(1) Of this very rare form of Ventral Rupture Cloquet gives an instance in a man of seventy-five years, who, whilst lifting a heavy mattress, felt a violent pain, with a sense of tearing in his loins, which gradually subsided in course of six weeks. But about a fortnight after, whilst getting up in his bed, he had a fresh attack of pain at the same spot. When seen next day he was much agitated, had violent colic, some nausea and vomiting, and his bowels were costive. The skin in the right lumbar region, without being discoloured, was raised slightly by a rounded swelling about five inches from the spines of the vertebra. It was little tender, and when grasped, was found to be somewhat elastic, crackling, deeply situated, or at least separated from the skin by a layer of fat. It had a broad pedicle, increased in bulk, and dilated on coughing, sneezing, and making water. He had severe and constant pain deep in the right lumbar and iliac regions in the course of the ccccum and ascending colon. The swelling was much larger when he stood up than when lying down, and when he turned on his face it disappeared, and left a hollow readily distinguishable by the touch. He was treated by putting a pad upon the seat of swelling, after its contents had been returned, and confining it with a circular bandage, (pp. 5,6, note) (2) I have seen two or three cases in which, after pregnancy, the tinea alba has been torn to the extent of several inches; and in one of them below the navel I well recollect I could, without difficulty, bury my whole hand in the cavity of the belly, thrusting in the skin as a large pouch before it. In neither of these cases, however, was the pro- trusion of the bowels very considerable. There did not seem to be anything remain- ing but the skin alone.—J. F. s. Lawrence mentions a very interesting case of a woman who strained herself by lifting a heavy table, and died from inflammation of the chest. She had complained qnly of pain in the loins. But on examination both m. recti abdominis were torn through about one third of their thickness, and there was a small quantity of coagulated blood about the torn fibres; but the sheath was not ruptured, (p. 583.) Probably, had she lived, this would have become a ventral rupture. In reference to wounds of the belly, which are sometimes followed by ruptures, he mentions, as an example, that this does not always occur. The case of a boy who had been largely gored by the tusk of a boar, and had the greater part of the stomach distended by a hearty dinner recently