152 WRY NECK. cleido mastoideus in wry neck, (Roonhcysen, Mf.eckrf.n, Ten Haaf, and others,) and then forgotten; again revived by Sharp, by Tilesius, and Sartoriijs, upon the Achilles’ tendon in club-foot, by Michaelis extended to other tendons also, were subsequently little thought of, and. only employed in certain cases of contraction, by Dupuytren and Dieffenbach in wry neck, and by Delpech employed in horse-foot as a subcutaneous division. But more recently, it has been first brought into practice as a subcutaneous division by the large experience and observation of Stromeyer ; and by Dieffenbach, Stoss, Duval, Scoutf.tten, Bouvier, Pauli, myself, and many others has it been variously practised and extended to different muscles, as more attention has been paid to the special treatment of curvatures. The mode of cure of tendons thus divided, Delpech formerly, and in modern times more especially, von Ammon (a), Duval, Bouvier, and others (b), have explained by experiments on brutes. I.—OF WRY NECK. ( Caput obstipum, Cervix obstipa, Obstipas, Torticollis, Lat.; schiefe Hals, Germ.; Torticolis, Obstipite, Fr.) Mauchart, Dissert, sistens caput obstipum. Tubing., 1737. Rettig, H. X., Dissert, sistens caput obstipum. Bud®, 1783. 8vo. Gruve, G., Dissert, de capite obstipo. Traj. ad Rh., 1786. 4to. Clossius, C. F., Ueber die Krankheiten der Kuochen. Tubing., 1798, p. 254. Richter, Anfangsgriinde, vol. iv. p. 256. Jorg, J. C. G., Ueber die Verkriimmungen des menschlichen Korpersund eine rationelle und sichere Heilart der selben. Leipz., 1816 ; with six plates. Stromeyer, L., Beitr'age zur operativen Orthopaedic. Hannover, 1838. Phillips, Benjamin, Lectures on Surgery; in London Medical Gazette, vol. xxvi. p. 244. 1840. Dieffenbach, Die Durchschneidung der Sehnen und Muskeln. Berl., 1841, p. 17; with twenty lithographed plates. Phillips, Ch., M.D., De la Tenotomie sous-cutane'e, ou des Operations qui se pra- tiquent pour la Guerison des Pieds-bots, Torticollis, &c. Pai’is, 1841. 8vo. Bonnet, A., Traite des Sections tendineuses et musculaires, etc. Paris, et Lyons, . 1841, p. 581. 1333. Wry Neck consists in such distortion of the neck, that the head 1 is inclined forwards, aside, downwards, frequently even to the shoulder; ; and the face turned more or less to the opposite side, and at the same time forwards and upwards; the chin raised proportionally higher, as the head 1 is in a greater degree drawn down. The patient can, under these circum- - stances, move the head either not at all, or only in a slight degree; often i can it be done only by the assistance of another, and frequently it is not t in any way possible. This disease may originate in an irregular activity of : the muscles of the neck, especially of the m. sterno-mastoideus, in a large: unsightly scar, or in a distortion of the neck itself. TV hen long continued, there is always dissimilarity in the two sides of the face. Distortion of the neck, as consequent on inflammation and suppuration of the joint- surfaces of the vertebra: of the neck, has been already considered (par. 263.) 1334. The most frequent cause of wry neck is unnatural muscular activity. It is either congenital and depends on irregular position of the child in the womb (1) ; or it arises from violence during delivery, which affects the rn. sterno-mastoideus (2) ; or it comes on later from the habit always hanging the head to one side, especially in children, if they be constantly carried on one arm ; if, on account of the continuance of any (aI De physiologic tenatomim experiment^ der Achilles’seline alsi Operaliv-ortliopldisdira illurtrat. Dresden,°?837. Heilmittel. Dorpa.,lS« ; w.th seven copper \.b) Pikoooff, N., Ueber die Durclisclmeidung plates. 4to. ■■■ " 111