980 OF EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. vers, to remove the head of the bone; the circumstances of his health, -with the excep' tion of great emaciation, not forbidding it. Operation.—“ An incision was first made through the integuments, beginning about.4 an inch above the point where the head of the femur was deposited, and then carried down the centre of the bone to a point as far as was considered necessary for sawing through it. The integuments were then separated on each side, making their dissection as close to the bone as possible. The straight saw was then used and the femur divided without difficulty about two inches below the top of the great trochanter and including, the little trochanter. So closely adherent was the upper portion of the bone to the ilium,' i that I was compelled to introduce a spatula between the sawn ends and used it as a lever, by which he was enabled to detach the subjacent parts, and to finish the opera- ■] tion. A very small quantity of blood was lost, and the boy suffered less than wasa anticipated. The bone had lost very little of its original form; the round ligament and the cartilage were gone, and the head of the bone was slightly affected with superficial caries. Several patches were also seen on other parts where absorption of the surface d had taken place. Neither the finger nor probe could detect any morbid condition of the ilium, but the original site of the acetabulum was not to be found. “ The knee was now gently carried outwards, the removal of the fixed h< ad of the < femur now no longer acting as opposing that movement; and the divided end of the e bone which had been exposed during the operation was thus brought deeply into the ( wound. After the dressing and application of bandages necessary to retain the parts > in their new situation, and also to secure the limb in the straight line with the body, he was put to bed upon his back, and treated as for compound fracture. A slight attacks, of symptomatic fever ensued, which did not continue beyond a few days. j “ The wound quickly healed; the various sinuses soon ceased to discharge, and the health of the patient speedily improved. Within twelve months he enjoyed a most- useful compensation for the loss of the original joint; had perfect flexion and exten- r sion of the thigh, and every other motion except that of turning the knee outwards.- The limb, of course, remained shorter, by as much as had been cutoff from the top of the thigh-bone.” He died five years after the operation, of phthisis, and an opportunity was thus obtained of ascertaining the condition of the parts. Examination.—The thigh-bone had been sawn off a little below the less trochanter ; the upper end of its shaft was largely covered with fibrous tissue and very looselv; though firmly connected on the inner side with a mass of this structure u Inch n up the hind part of the liip-socket, so that the top of the shaft lay against but not at all supporting the upper lip of the socket, the front of which seemed filled with bone. 1 is probable that before the operation, as usual in cases of advanced disease of the hip-; joint, the margin of the socket had become everted, and the whole socket shallower . There was no appearance of synovial membrane, capsular ligament nor other part of a true joint. And the condition may be described as that of a soft anchylosis wit the connecting medium so long as to admit of very free movement. The prepara > is now in the Museum of the lloyal College of Surgeons of England ; and from car examination of it, the account I have just given is drawn up -—J. s* The second successful case is Feucusson’s (a), who operated in March 1845, on . of fourteen years, who had been first attacked with hip disease thirteen mont is pro “ The head of the bone could be felt through the soft parts, lying on the dorsum tin,* l ue neau in me none ouuiu uc iei o.ioug,.. . lorffC its identity could be more accurately ascertained by passing^the hnger^nto^a sinus, which opened on the surface, over and behind the trochanter major. . , extremity was so isolated that the fiuger could be passed round it in all direc * * * A longitudinal opening about six inches long, was made m the line rjg femur, extending from over the head of the bone to a little below the trochanter mil > and the tissues were separated from the shaft of the bone, so as to permit a curie 'J” to be used for the introduction of a chain-saw.” This, however, broke, ami j With a sharp-pointed bistoury. compelled to adopt another mode of procedure. ...... -• -—K r- - by separated all the soft parts from the neck of the bone and the [rochanters^ ™Z*T\ey«t, causing a an me suu g.u id uum ..... iiv-w* ... ~~ . • lpver, the knee to be moved across the opposite thigh, and using I the head’and portion of the bone thus isolated, was so thrust out of the wound, satisfi*^ couM with facUity apply the ordinary saw for the requisite section. Not being < ^ ith the condition of the interior of the tone at the surface exposed by the sa, , ., • i nliAiit tlivno nnnrtpra nf nn inch IllOrC. tlicn Clvw» larged the opening, and removed about three quarters of an inch moutherl cl«* pf wound with a few points of interrupted suture, and covered it loosely with a p fc ^ i;„f Nn nf sufficient magnitude to require a ligature was divided, me lint. No vessel of‘sufficient magnitude to require a ligature' (a) Excision of the Upper end of the Femur, in nn example of Morbus Coxarius; Med.«CWr* Trims., vol. xxviii. 1843-