441 THE C/ESAREAN OPERATION. e >f the belly-wall ; second, the opening of the womb ; third, the draw- 3 ng forth of the child and of the after-birth ; fourth, the closing of the b round. 1838. The skin and abdominal muscles are to be cut through to the & -jeritoneeum in one of the directions given, {par. 1835,) with a convex bis- . oury. Any vessel wounded must be tied; a small opening is then made ■ii nto the peritonceum to admit the forefinger of the left hand, and upon it m he button-ended bistoury is introduced and divides the peritonceum the I rhole length of the outer wound. A cut is then made in the white line, as 'ft io vessel can be there wounded, bearing in mind the thinness of the ex- b; landed wall of the belly, with one stroke through the coverings and peri- \\mourn. A length of five inches for the cut in the wall of the belly is si ufficient, and of four and a half inches for that in the womb is generally t o be considered sufficient. The womb now presenting itself in the A round, of a bluish-red colour, its cavity is to be cut into with the convex ft >istoury to a small extent, and the wound enlarged in the direction of i be outer wound, as quickly as possible with the button-ended bistoury introduced on the forefinger. The child, grasped according to its posi- ;d ion, by the head or feet, is to be drawn out, but not too hastily, and the a- avel-string tied and divided. If the opening of the womb fall upon the fiddle of the placenta the cut must be quickly enlarged, the placenta cut ?! arough, the child pulled out, and the placenta separated. If the cut light .b pon the edge of the placenta, it must be separated. If the separated pla- I enta present itself in the wound of the womb, it must be separated by a e entle pull upon the navel-string and by a not very quick twist. If this be ii ot sufficient, it must be separated by introducing the hand into the womb. i Wigand’s (a) proposal of pushing the navel-string with a curved rod through the 0 .outh of the wound into the vagina is objectionable. iff? If the womb do not, by its own contraction, descend into the pelvis, it must be cau- Bjpnsly thrust down (6). (ji Various kinds of knives for the Caesarean operation have been recommended by 1 b>' Fla™and> with a removable sheath (d), by Zeller (e), and Mesnard’s fi 1838. After the blood, which has escaped into the cavity of the womb, ■'is been sopped up with fine sponge dipped in warm water, the mem- ranes which by stopping up the mouth of the womb prevent the flowing 0 way of the blood, are to be removed, the blood poured into the belly ptJy Passed out, and any of the intestines which have protruded havino- * -en replaced, the edges of the wound are brought together by the as° Iclosed with the sutures (g), which are introduced with • -Mies of sufficient breadth, in such way, however, that the lower angle of SenTTi m whlch astr.if foiled linen is to be placed, may remain d- • Stiekin Tcfpe °/ fluld; To suPP°rt the closed wounds, some pieces inSh 2 F i ’ !r°m fou? t0 five inches and a half ^ width and Middle nlnni? °F’ and ,once and a half surround the belly, their 1 ion nP * C °n the back, and the ends brought forwards crossing in front fct TZ ,and 8r* Mow. The open par, of fhe wound Peking n Ler rr W, , TaddlnS sPread with ointment, and over it S p aster, and the whole belly supported with a linen girdle, having 1 j *> Geburtshulflic^ AbhindlS!,"111110116 Abhandlu"gf i P- 96. Hamburg, 1812. UmIT* *" Geburtsl'r‘‘fe,gpl. Vi. figs.3,4. stnunen°te.NETTEa * Verzeichni83 der chi'urff- H? Divert, de l'Ope ration Cittrienne. Paris. fig *™®H0LZ'8 AMogie, pi. v. fig, 30, (ff) Uhaefe, above cited, p. 25,