358 TREATMENT OF the urethra, you are not at all liable to the first error, and you are much less liable the second than you would be otherwise/ (pp. 29, 30.) J 1683. A thinner elastic or wax bougie, about the thickness of tl stream in which the urine flows is now taken, and a maik made upon at the same distance from its point as on the former one; after whici beino- introduced as already directed, an attempt must be made to pass through the stricture, in doing which all violence must be avoided. TK entrance of the bougie beyond the nail-mark shows it has passed tl stricture, and this is still further proved when, on drawing it back, it somewhat held, and if left quite alone it does not rise up. The last ci cumstance shows that the bougie has bent in the canal of the urethra front of the stricture without penetrating it. If the point of the boug enter a mucous follicle, it is known by the nearness of the obstacle to tl orifice of the urethra, by the pain the patient feels, by its further progre when the bougie is drawn a little back, which is effected without the lea difficulty, and then again introduced in a different direction, and by tl absence of any impression of the stricture which is always observed, whei the bougie is withdrawn, to have been made by the stricture. If tl bougie will not enter, a smaller one should be tried. If the condition of tl stricture be such as to render the passage of the bougie impossible, v must endeavour to obtain an impression of it with Ddcamp s mode bougie, presently to be described, which must be pressed against it a litt while for that purpose, so as to give to the point of the bougie to be intr duced the proper curve by which perhaps it will pass through t | stricture. Or a very thin bougie is to be carried down to the obstacL and there left some hours, from eight to twelve ; afterwards it will of itsa* enter the stricture and pass into the bladder (Dupuytrex.) When t bougie have to be pushed beyond the curve of the urethra, beneath tl arch of the pubes, it is most advantageous to give it a proportionate curv- or to introduce a stilette of lead or iron properly curved into the cavity an elastic bougie. Or if a straight bougie be carried beyond the curve the urethra, as soon as its point gets under the pubic arch, the pe/ns^mu* be depressed to lessen the curve of the canal, the bougie gently rotated as is pushed forwards, and assisted by pressure of the finger in the pennam The introduction of the bougie is often rendered difficult by the spa modic contraction of the muscles surrounding the urethra, especially^ irritable persons, or if the stricture be in an inflammatory state. In case the introduction of the bougie may be often effected, if a slight ru bing be made on the perinceum with one hand, whilst the instrumen gently pressed forwards with the other, or if it be allowed to lie some tun upon the stricture, and then attempts made to pass it farther. L ndertie circumstances, remedies which lessen the great irritability, as hike-war bathin", clysters, leeches, and the like should sometimes precede the u: of the°bougie. No force should ever be employed in passing a bougi if it will enter only a few lines deep into the stricture, there it shoul allowed to remain, and by repeated introductions it will pass further. Common bougies, wax bougies, are prepared in the following ,’iannc^'TA. P’^, fine linen, which has been already used, nine inches long and to an men according to the thickness of the bougie to be made, is to be dipped into meh dp ^ and when a little cooled, spread flat and even with a spa tula; it is then to b; together between the fingers and afterwards between twopiates ofmarl.htl t ^ firm and smooth. The bougie must be equally thick tliroughout its I about one inch from its point, from whence it should gradually taper an ii f 0 - i* H r A ■4 ■ >ih 4 di n <ii k. id i i ra uc ■in xv « r