BLEEDING. 603 (1) Erard’s (a) compressor consists of a canula, at the vesical end of which are 0 wings, which jut against the inner wound, whilst a plate furnished with compresses ipressed against the perinamm with a screw. (2) Dufuytren’s (b) compressor has two branches, flat on their inner, convex on efr outer surface, and by their elasticity capable of separating from each other like fa e branches of common dissecting forceps. The branches are covered with leather f'. d agaric, the latter upon their convex surface. The instrument is to be passed, closed, :o the wound, the one branch put against the seat of the bleeding vessel, and then the anches allowed to open. If the bleeding stop, the instrument must be left there; t if otherwise, its position must be altered till the bleeding vessel is fully com- f essed. (3) vox Graefe’s (c) compressor resembles Weiss’s speculum, and consists of four ... hnches, the outer surface of which is covered with agaric: it is introduced, closed, j o the wound, and then the branches opened by a screw, so that a regular pressure is iide on every part of the wound. Shaw (d) has described a case of fatal bleeding, in operating for the stone, from unding the dorsal artery of the penis, which was given olf as a large branch from the pogastric artery in the prostate gland, and was continued under the pubic arch to penis. He has found this variety of the artery frequent, as has also Tiedemann (e) d Burns. , 5 [With regard to the loss of blood during the operation for the stone, Brodie says:—“ I >ve sometimes heard it observed, when a patient has lost a good deal of blood at the le of the operation, that he has lost no more than it will do him good to lose.” I have, wever, great doubts whether even in the case of the strongest man, the losing much iod adds to his chance of recovery, and it is evident, that in the case of a person of ginally weak constitution, or of one whose bodily powers are exhausted by his pre- ius sufferings, or who labours under disease of the kidneys, or other organs, the loss a considerable quantity of blood in the operation, is likely to make all the difference _ ween its success and failure.” (p. 335.) :As to the bleeding which occurs during the operation ; though free, it often ceases almost mediately after the patient is unbound, and the legs brought close together, and piires nothing further. But if it continue, and the patient become faint and pallid, it 11 be necessary to put a stop to it, otherwise the bleeding will be fatal. Brodie men- [ns the case of an elderly man with an enlarged prostate and deep perinceum, in whom he blood seemed to proceed from the neighbourhood of the neck of the bladder, and 'iat was remarkable, it was venous. He was foiled in all his attempts to restrain the morrhage, and the patient survived the operation only a few hours.” (p. 335.) I ve also known a case or two in which the bleeding was fatal; but such instances are ■e. When the bleeding continues after the operation, the wound must be gently opened 1 carefully examined. If any vessel can be seen, it should be taken up and tied; t if, as is more commonly the case, the transverse perinseal artery, or the artery the bulb, which I believe is far more frequently the bleeding vessel than the pudic, uch lies so protected by the ramus of the ischium, that it is scarcely possible to be iu- ■ed with the gorget, though it may be cut through with the knife, be cut off close to origin from the internal pudic, there is not room to apply a ligature around either of “ former; and with regard to the pudic, it is next to impossible to get at it at all with icedle. In such cases the best and safest proceeding is to pass the finger into the und and press the artery steadily against the ramus ischii till the bleeding cease, "s will require to be continued for several hours, and will need a relay of assistants' »ave seen two cases so treated successfully. The first case was under my care during ’ dressership, and the pressure was kept up uninterruptedly for fourteen hours, and n very link inconvenience to the patient. Attempts had been made both to tie the , and to cut it across, so that its ends might retract, as it was supposed to have been -3 n but !hey werc fiuite fruitless. In the other case, four or five hours n ,„r,n nt, ° P!u the patient in safety. Under these circumstances the surface of the | Kid generally sloughs, and the cure is retarded. b'°0d i,nStead of escaP'n6 by ^ outer wound, flows back into the r ’ 1 forrning a clot> prevents the passage of the urine either by the wound or |iM^HeTn0rr,,aeiC “lft Suite de la Taille> &c- fc) Journal^ von Graefe und von Walthkr, Run, p' 50 ° 'U^U!Vl' et P**hl. par Sanson et (d) London Med. and Physical Journal, vol. lv. , v m , P-2. 1820. («) Tabulns Arteriarum, pi. xxx. f. 2.