STRANGULATED RUPTURE. 37 1171. In many cases, when the strangulation is not considerable, or depends on the peculiar position of the intestines, their entanglement, or their circular enclosure by the omentum, the protruded parts may be returned when they are properly untwisted; or when the part of the intestine at the seat of strangulation has been a little drawn out, and by a gentle pressure, it has been attempted to return the contents of the bowel into the belly. If the intestine be strangulated in a fold of the omentum, this must be freed with the bistoury, if the intestine cannot easily be drawn out of it. [In the College Museum is a very remarkable instance of strangulation of a small intestine, by a smooth round cord, two and a half inches long, and about a line thick, extending from the end of a diverticulum on the ileum to the mesentery, about an inch and a half from the edge of the intestine. In St. Bartholomew’s Museum there is a similar case of a diverticulum from the small intestine to the mesentery, forming a circular hole, in which the gut is strangulated. The patient was subject of obstinate costiveness, and died in four days. In St. Thomas’s Museum there is an instance of strangulation of small intestine by a band from the ascending colon to the mesentery. And at St. Bartholomew’s a preparation of the small intestines of a child of seven years old, strangulated by a narrow thread-like band from the mesentery; he was admitted for constipation, and died fourteen days after.—J. F. S.] 1172. If reduction cannot be thus effected, the seat of strangulation must be dilated, which may be done either by cutting or by stretching. 1173. Dilatation by cutting is effected in the following wayThe intestine is to be withdrawn in the most careful manner by an assistant, from the place where the cut is to be made; the sac should be drawn some- what outwards with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, and the tip of the left forefinger is to be introduced between the intestine and the neck of the sac; a straight or curved narrow bistoury, with a blunt end, should be introduced flat upon this finger, its cutting edge directed towards the place where the cut is to be made, and the seat of strangulation cut into by raising the handle of the knife, or by pressing its edge up with the finger of the left hand ; but if the strangulation be so great that the finger cannot be introduced, after drawing down the neck of the sac, a director, curved according to circumstances, and oiled, is to be introduced between the intestine and the seat of strangulation, its groove turned towards the part where the incision is to be made, its handle so held with the fingers of the left hand, that they separate the intestines from the director, and give it such position, that its point rests against the inner surface of the perito- neum ; and then upon its groove the button-ended bistoury should be intro- duced. If the seat of strangulation be deep, it is more safe to draw the intestines a little down, so as to be able to see the seat itself. The direction of the cut should always be such as to prevent serious injury ; and its size i such that the forefinger may, without violence, be introduced at the part | v lere the stricture was situated. It is then to be ascertained by the i in reduction of the finger into the belly, whether any second strangulation | exist which requires a second dilatation. '“stru™ents for dividing the strangulating part. Petit’s straight i bistonrv ' d!rcctor> Mery 8 and Mourenheim’s winged director; the straight !thei!ifar !Tn or probe end of Petit, Bellocq, Brambilla, Dzonui ; Heister \ ns mu ' pANC’ ^RA^BILLA> Dupuytren, Seiler; the concave of Perret, others mprf.lv Ruutorffer, Asti.ey Cooper, Langenbeck, and Le Blanc, and 1.7'<^,i^catlon of 1 0TT’H bistoury, the concealed bistoury of Bienase, i of the Mum endpJl ! ^ !*le stri.ctRre’ use of the finger, as a guide for the introduction lunt-ended bistoury, is far preferable to the director ■ and being sure that it is