596 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; he following writers may be referred to on this operation Journal des S^avans, 1748, Juin. Frere Come, Recueil des pieces impartiales sur l’Operation de la Taille faite par Lithotome cache. Paris, 1735. ^ _ K -, Additions h la suite de Recueil de toutes les pieces qm ont ete public au suiet du Lithotome cache. Paris. De Preval, Ergo scalpello vagina recondito cystotome lateralis perfectior. Par 1754. Cambron, Lettre sur la Lithotome, pour prouver la superiority du Lithotome cacl parjg | y 60. Nahuys," Parallele de la Taille laterale de M. Le Cat avec celle du Lithotoc cache'. Amsterd., 1766. ., . Chastanet, Lettres sur la Lithotomie, pour prouver la supenonte du LithotOD cache' pour l’Ope'ration de la Taille sur tous les autres instrumens. Paris, 1768. Sabatier Remarques sur l’Ope'ration de la Taille avec le Lithotome cach<?, et sur Jueement que l’Acade'mie de Chirurgie a porte' de cette ope'ratiou, dans le troisiei Volume de ses Me'moires ; in Mem. de lTnstitut National de France, vol. u. p. 341. 2090. The disadvantages objected to the concealed lithotome ar wounding the inner wall of the bladder when its blade is gauged at tl higher numbers ; the great danger of wounding the rectum or the pud artery if its blade be not immediately directed towards the ischial tub rosity ; and the difficulty of finding the aperture in the bladder, whentl staff has been withdrawn before the cut is made (a). It has been attempt! to do away with many of these objections, by shortening and blunting tl blade, so that after the lithotome has been introduced into the bladder tl staff should not be withdrawn, but that, without its point leaving the sta the lithotome might be drawn out of the bladder, or that the instrume should be furnished with a small gorget, or with a sheath to its blade (l It must be remembered, however, that with very unruly patients this i strument can be used more safely than any other, and is always to » considered as one of the most preferable. Boyer (e\ who prefers Frere Come’s lithotome to any other, uses it in the followb way •—In adults and elderly persons he never gauges the instrument highar th No 11 however large the stone may be, and in general only up to No. 9. Ht FeI‘ enlarging this cut iflit be too small. In drawing out the instrument, instead rf>e* the shaft up against the pubic arch, he presses its concave right pubic bone, so that the blade is inclined almost directly mitoanb..Wheni» satisfied by the length of that part of the instrument which has tenramA the cessation of resistance that the prostate and the neck of the bladder are < through, he allows the blade to return into its sheath, and withdraws the in. closed, by which wounding the rectum and the pudic artery are avoid*!. The tn# verse direction of the inner wound is made correspondent with the outer b) j duction of the finger, and does not prevent the entrance of the forceps. 2091. In the same way, as Chaussier and Beclard (par. 2062) h* recommended cutting into the prostate and neck of the bladder on sides, as being the more correct interpretation of Celsus s text, Dufuytren perform successfully and fully lay down this mode of ope i ing, the bilateral section, as it is called, in the year 1824. The patient is placed and fastened in the usual way, and the sta by an assistant vertically and corresponding to the raphe. The ope . with a straight-pointed bistoury makes, at a distance of six °J\s<r'e" j from the rectum, a transverse cut, the slight curve of which (a) Memoircs de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. ili. P- 628.—Scarpa, Dupuythen, Textor, Beck, R., Ueber den Seitenschnitt mit dem STBOMEYER’schen doppeltgedeckten Stein®6*1 p.-i- .. t? a. i Carls, u. Freib., 1844. . , TOi. (c) Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, ™ p. 391.