616 CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE IN WOMEN, vol. vi. p. 79.—WiLLiAUME, vol. x. p. 180.— Camoin, vol. xii. p. 19.—Dupuytren < 4 Sanson, vol. xv. p. 8(3-87.—Pezerat, vol. xviii. p. 128. Heinecke; in Journal von Graefe und von Walther, vol. v. p. 305. Gostorf ; in same, p. 510. Behre; in Heidelb. Klinisch. Annalen, vol. i. p. 453. Royer Collard, Clinique Chirargicale de 1’Hotel Dieu; in Repert gen. d’Anatom: ■ et de Physiologie pathologique, etc., vol. i. p. 234. 2120. Vacca Berlinghieri’s (a) most recent practice still remain. ■ to be noticed, which without having the disadvantages of the recto-vesica 1 operation, unites all the advantages, and resembles the coup de maUri j proposed by Marechal in the great apparatus {par. 2066.) ThejfirstI cut, from twenty to twenty-two lines long, extends from the edge of thi j rectum, along the raphe to the scrotum, divides the skin, the fibres of th>; ! m. leva,tor ani and transversus perincei, which with the m. accelerator urince, the urethra and the m. erector penis form a sort of triangle in the perinceum. The left forefinger introduced into the front of the wound- seeks for the groove of the staff, which is held upright, passes the knifi into it, and therewith cuts into the urethra to the extent of the outer wound A knife with a blunt beak, about two lines long, is inserted into th< groove of the staff, at the lower part of the wound ; the staff is then raise** j towards the pubic arch, slightly inclined towards the operator, and thei-j pushed about an inch deep into the bladder Without changing the posM tion of the staff, the handle of the knife is to be raised a little towards thi scrotum, by which its back is jammed against the groove of the staff, ant in drawing it out, the neck of the bladder, the prostate, the membranous part and the cellular tissue beneath it are cut through. If the wound tx 1 not sufficiently large, it may be easily enlarged in the usual way. Irl withdrawing the stone, the blades of the forceps should be directed towards the angles of the wound. L. Balardini (b) has given an account of eight cases treated in the same manner. According to Pantaleo (c), the oblique cut in the direction of the outer wound shoulc be made with a double-cutting bistouri cache’, through the upper and lower part of thffli prostate. Ij Here also must be mentioned Dupuytren’s proposal, which he pursued very sue cessfully, but has not made known publicly. He made a cut into the raphe oppo- site the staff held vertically, then with the bistoury penetrated the groove of the stafljs and passed upon it into the bladder Frere Comb's bistouri cache, then turned the of the instrument upwards, for the purpose of dividing the neck of the bladder as tne I bistoury is withdrawn (d). B.—Of Cutting for the Stone in Women. Louis, Sur la Taille des Femmes; in Mercure de France. Dc'eembre, 1746. Masotti, La Litotomia delle Donne perfezionata. Firenza, 1764. Platner, Progr. Historia literario-chirurgica Lithotomiae Mulierum. Lips-, 1"(1- < Cronenberg, Historia Lithotomiae in muliere facta:. Hal®, 1811. Behre, Dissert, de Lithotomia muliebri. Kilim, 1822. , J Behre, Versuch einer historisch kritischeu Darstellung des Steinschnittes beutt-*! Weibe. Heidelberg, 1827. 8vo. von Kern, above cited, p. 149. 2121. The various methods and modes of proceeding in the operation < (a) Della Litotomia nei due Sessi. Quarta Memoria. Pisa, 1825. (/,) Annali Universali di Medicine, vol. xlvi. p. 238. 1828. (e) Lancet, 1833-4, vol. ii. p. 557. \trd- (U) Sanson,almve cited, ""roti R- , Chir. //fitting, vol i- p. CoLf.AKD, above cited, p. 500.