CUTTING FOR THE STONE, 612 peculiarly formed knife carried along the groove of the trocar, the ope: iim- into the body of the bladder from below upwards, and in withdrav in° the knife the outer wound was dilated. A gorget was then introduce on° the groove of the trocar, with which, if necessary, the wound w farther enlarged, and upon it the forceps passed (a). Thomas (b1 made tlie cut from above downwards by means of an instrument resei- bliug Frere Come’s litkotome. 2113. The danger of bleeding, the difficulty in extracting the ston the wounding the rectum, and the other accidents, and their consequenc which frequently accompany the lateral operation for the stone, have 1< to the practice of cutting for the stone through the rectum \LithoUmA recto-vesicalis.) This operation was first proposed by L. Hoffmann (c who <mve reasons for its preference over the others, although the proposi operation is more uncertain in its results. Sanson (d) claims it as Y own discovery, and describes his mode of proceeding. It is in especi< favour with Vacca Berlinghieri (e) and others, and performed wu success. Martin ( f ) lays claim to the discovery of this operation : he made his first expe ment on the dead body in 1786. But Hoffmann lectured on the subject in 1 / - 9. H the first notion of the operation of cutting for the stone by the rectum cannot be asenb to Vegetius («), as the Editor of the Article Lithotomie m the Diet, des Sc. Me* vol. xxviii. p. 424, imagines, Vacca Berlinchieri has sufficiently proved (A). In' the case of a thin person, with a stone of so large a size, that the extraction1 it bv the usual method, would be either impracticable, or attended with the greae risk to the patient’s life,” Brodie says, “ it may be a question, whether there is not better method of proceeding (than the high operation) m the .Tctowesica operatio in which the incision of the perinceum is made to extend through the tunic rectum and the sphincter ani muscle. Here the parts which afford the chic re to the extraction of a large stone are divided ; and, although the nsejenc of the bladder extends beyond the boundaries of the prostate, the ill consc^ arising from the escape of nrine into the cellular membrane, are likely to» be n gn measure obviated in consequence of the free opening which has been made m o t rectum." Brodie performed this operation on one occasion in whidii the st sunnosed to be very large, but did not so turn out, and the patient, who had from stone more than twenty years, died in about three weeks /^^betwe< kidneys, and on one side of the pelvis, (pp. 347, 48.) In another case, sixty and seventy, whom he operated on with Blizards knife, and on much constitutional excitement, the abdomen was tense and swollen, and then ^ danger, Brodie cut through the rectum with a probe-pointed bistouiy on th daio“V^f“ur^tont Surgeon* also performed this recto-vtsicaloperation u case where the stone was presumed to be very large; but it was not la g . went on well, and recovered without any untoward circumstances. J. r. ,j 2114. Sanson has proposed two different modes of penetrating thro^f the rectum into the bladder. After previously dividing the «t. spM*™ ani and the lower part of the rectum, in the direction ot the rap*, Methode pour tirer les Pierres de la V essie. P» (a) Foubert, Nouvelle Methode de tirer la Pierre de la Vessie ; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chi- rureie, vol. i. p. 65, pi. i—viii. Kessei.rino, Dissert. Historic ct.exaraen Methodi FoUbkiitiani pro extractione Calculi. Hal®, 1736. (b) Thomas; in Louis, in Mem. de 1 Acad, de Chirurgie, vol. iii. jd. Odd. Desch amps, above C1T,V Von emer neuen Metliode den Stein 7,u sclmeiden ; inVermiscliten Scl.riften, herausgegeb. von. II. Ci.AVE'r. Munster, 1/91. vol. li. p.oll. fdl Des Movens de parvenir a la Vessie par le Rectum, avantages ct inconveniens attaches a cette 1SI («} Sanson, Des Movens de parvenir a ' par le Rectum, &«., suivie d un Methode d’extraire la Pierre de la 'esste n» par la voie de 1'In tost in Rectum, dc AND. IIertanohikri, traduite de 1 Ital. Par Paris, 1821. 8vo. . 'raliott (/) Nouvelle Methode de faire 1 } , la faille ; in Itevue Medicale, vol. • P* ^ 1822. . . : Basil, R Cq) Mulomedicina, cap. xlvi. nn. . (X) Above cited, p. 72.