289 VAEIX. «ted, as not only to prevent all circulation of blood through this part of the vein, but ven in a great measure to prevent the admission of air by inflation. * * * The blood eing prevented from passing through the vena cava inferior, flowed into the lumbar eins, enlarging them gradually, as that vein became contracted, till they were of suf- cient size to receive the whole blood which returns by the vena cava. * * * The en- irged veins were in some places thrown into varices, as must naturally take place under le circumstances we have mentioned, (pp. 127, 28.) Brodie (a) says he has seen varicose veins of the fore-arm to a considerable extent, 'here had been inflammation of the median-cephalic and cephalic veins. These had —ecome obliterated, and in consequence of their obliteration, the blood did not easily ;turn from the fore-arm, so that the veins became varicose.” (p. 159.) Scarpa (6) observes:—The celebrated Mr. Cline having found in the body of a man, -C inferior vena cava obliterated a little above its bifurcation, in consequence of a eatomatous tumour, which had formed in the cellular tissue behind the peritonaeum, id which occupied a part of the pelvis and lumbar region, remarked that the epigastric -ins were become as large as the little finger, and that the superficial veins of the idomen, as well as the lumbar, and those of the internal cavity of the abdomen, were i a similar manner very much dilated ; the internal mammary vein likewise greatly darged, and also the epigastric, with which it anastamosed, opened, as usual, into e superior cava, near to the origin of the subclavian veins; by which circumstance le venous blood of the lower extremities was poured into the superior cava, by means the mammary vein, and into the inferior cava by the lumbar veins above the com- •ession caused by the steatomatous tumour.” (p. 21, note.) Brodie relates the case of “ a man who had varicose veins all down the right arm id to a considerable extent down the right side of the chest. He had difficulty of earning, and cough. One day he felt as if he had received a blow on one side of the est, and immediately a large abscess presented itself externally, as big as an orange, hich had evidently made its way from the inside of the chest through one of the inter- nal spaces. Immediately upon the appearance of this swelling, the varicose veins sappeared. I he man died, and on examining the body after death, it was found that ere was disease in the bronchial glands; suppuration had taken place in them, and a rge abscess had been confined in the inside of the chest, which pressed on the right c avian vein, and this caused the blood to stagnate in the veins in which it had its Ugin, and which had in consequence become varicose.” In another case, “ the super- nal veins otme chest and upper extremities were extensively varicose. * * * On ex- uning the body, a large medullary tumour was discovered within the chest, which bv TTwiVw the lower part of the trachea, and on the junction of the two subclavian od tolbrCted °nCe th” e/Dtra0Ce °f the air int0 the IunSs> and the return of the 3oa to tne superior vena cava. (pp. 159, 160.) )2:^K.el*ra'ly speaking, the superficial veins are most prone to become varicose, and t uall} those of the lower limbs. Hodgson saysThe only instance of varix nail iUPF!r ,Wlth whlch he was acquainted, is mentioned by Petit (c) • it was I “„J foar the Dunrno°se f ""’“c ^ £ti,ent WaS 80 fat that 110 °ther v«n could be | WhlCh °peratl0n PETIT heatedly performed by iV^LPEADTfvTiSLTnti0n-ed are alS0 examP,es’ though from different cause, th vari^sesweflingf. TTn P,™- the armS’ f°re-arms, and hands covered e jaw and the£FcUvlZ*™85 °f mnceS as b'S as the fist> between the angle of e edge of thc^orbit^n nV(r!id,.ln ay°unS man> * varix as large as the thumb under jittal suture which b i l an(^ a Pretty large one, in a man, upon the course of the W £ I nmli h° COn:,? £°“ the ^ong‘tudinal sinus. And he mentions Rut ti ,i ° as . thumb, beneath the tongue, (p. 420.) | en within The 'greata£TeTor?}Vtal'\S° !}f^Cted’ as ln the instances just cited I lomas’s Hosnitaf ?^ 1 of the trunk. I have also very recently seen in St. -reART's liga^nt as bigTs ,of lh« Wal vein, immediately below ' which it might’have be^ TV P,?Ti S eg&and ln the seat of femoral rupture, scribed ink“i?.i__v been ea?,]y mistaken. Hodgson also says:—“Mr. Cline 30ribed in l»* 1° ’’T coonjr illlJjUlKCJn. HOD ck‘ which biTsuTdTrovedTataflT V™” ?vho had a l;irge pulsating tumour in her ffinlar vein. The carotid -in/ y baimorrhage. A sac proceeded from the internal !=•” (p. 539.) I n! a e.r00ve at the posterior part of this fseum at St. Thomas’s which T th.at,thls ,s the brief history of a preparation in the “) Above Cite/ ^lch preC1Sely corresponds with the account.-J. F. S.l (6) On Aneurism (Translation.) VOL. II. -p , \u) uu aneurism ( t,c) lraite des Maladies Chirurg., vol.ii. p. 49.'