552 STONE IN THE BLADDER; CONSTITUTIONAL SOLVENTS; 2025. The following are the various modes of treatment recornmende< gj and employed for the removal of stone in the bladder:— First, The internal use of stone solvents (Lithontriptics.) Second, The injection of solvents into the bladder. Third, Solution by means of the galvanic pile. Fourth, Extraction of the stone through the urethra. Fifth, Breaking up the stone in the bladder (Lithotrih/.) Sixth, The operation of cutting for the stone (Lithotomy.) 2026. The stone-solvents, which in former times were used in so great number, although without any knowledge of their possible operation, car. only by the advance of chemistry, and by a precise knowledge of the con- stituents of stone in the bladder, attain their proper application and effi- ciency. The circumstances which have been considered in the treatmenl of gravel also apply here. {par. 2011-2013.) For stones consisting oi $ uric acid, alkalies, for those of phosphates, the use of acids have been t recommended, with corresponding dietetic treatment. In regard to acids,:: it must also be added, that they operate only against the phosphatic . diathesis, and probably have no effect in dissolving stones, except by in- jection. Many empirical remedies consist principally of alkalies, as Stephens’s remedy, and others. Some, as so many of the vegetable remedies, operate only by alleviation, through the large quantity of drink combined with their use. Many mineral waters: operate both ways. 2027. The efficacy of these remedies has been too highly valued by many practitioners, and by others too much decried. If we cannot expect by the use of these remedies to dissolve large stones, yet, however, their increase may be prevented, the symptoms caused by the stone diminished, and small stones perhaps got rid of. Under circumstances which forbid the removal of a large stone by operation, or after the performance of an operation, to get rid of the diathesis producing stone, their employment is always very advantageous. Upon the effect of pure water see Littre (a); of Stephens’s remedy, see Morand(b), Baume (c); of lime water, see White, R. (d), Buri.et (e), Segalas (_/"), Langier (o' , of magnesia, see Brande (h), Hoffmann (i); of carbonate of soda, see Mascagni (A Magendie (k), Leroy (l); of bicarbonate of soda, see Genois (in); of the mineral ™ waters of Vichy see Charles Petit (n). _ , J Upon the operation of these different remedies, various experiments have been mace, and especially the efficacy of the waters of Vichy proved by A. Chevalier (o). j Even when, by the continued use of alkalies,the inconveniences of stone in the blaaaer are arrested; there is, according to Howship (p), no proof that it is dissolved; for, I.—Internal Use of Stone Solvents. (Remedia lithontriptica, Lat.; Steinauflosenden Mittel, Germ.) (a) Mem.del’Acad.des Sciences. 1720. p.436. (/) Expose des divers precedes employes j<u*qu * ce jour pour guerir de la Pierre satis avoir recours a l'opemtioii de Taille, p. 59. Paris, 1825. /• 1 t. w !• 1*1 .NV 1 Hi r. 1 U|U 1IIUVII UC 1 •» ■ 1 IV , p. «. • - — 7 p , (m) Revue Medicate, 1S2S. vol. iii. p- 3iJ- . 'TnMemorie della Societa Italiana, vol. xi. No.34. A 1 aito.1 k) Above cited. (p) Above cited, p. 102.