184 DIVISION OP PLANTAR FASCIA. and the inner edge of the foot are much contracted, then the. tendons of the m. tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis must be divided. In greater bending inwards of the foot, so that it can only with the greatest force be moved towards the horizontal axis of the shin-bone, the tendons of the m. tibialis posticus and extensor proprius pollicis must be cut through In dividing the plantar fascia, the heel and toes should be strongly drawn asunder by an assistant, by which the fascia is still more stretched and projected, the knife is to be introduced, Hat, on the inner edge oi the foot under the fascia, its edge should then be turned and the fascia cut through as it is withdrawn, without injuring the skin on the opposite side, which I have often done with ease. The tendon of the m. tibialis anticus may in this way be divided at the lower end of the shin-bone, where it projects very greatly beneath the skin ; also the tendon of the m. extensor pollicis proprius, to the outer side of which the anterior tibial artery lies, and may be easily avoided. The division of the tendon of the m. tibialis posticus is made half an inch above the inner ankle; the nail of the left forefinger is to be placed over the posterior tibial artery, and the point of a curved knife carried to the bone, and forwards upon it, divides the tendon (2). A cut three-fourths of an inch long is made more convem- ently along the course of the tendon above the inner ankle; the .loot is then turned outwards, and the exposed tendon divided with the point ot a knife (Stromeyer.) The tendon of the m. flexor pollicis longus is cut through near the inner edge of foot, where, when violently stretched, it projects between those of the m. flexor pollicis brevis and of the m. adductor pollicis, beneath the skin, without thrusting the knife out at the other side [(1) Shortening of the inner portion of the plantar fasna, producmg^eat diminutm in the length, with considerable elevation of the inside of the arch of the foot, in which case the great toe generally stands almost upright, instead of resting horizontally on ?he ’^oungd I have feen several times, independent of any disposition to club-footj have usually cured it without difficulty, by thrusting a p/iimo^s-kmfe on ^ ™ of the foot, opposite the base of the great metatarsal bone, between the skm and /^ and dividing the latter in withdrawing the knife. No apparatus isrequisite,Tut alter three or four days, when the weight of the body can be borne, the patient is to W directed to walk about a little, so that the the newly-formed connecting materis gradu- ally lengthened, and the arch of the foot drops to its natural level; the great toe also it tb*j'^"TheTivSon6^oVthe1 tendon of the m. tibialis posticus is the only one whl<^f requires muSh anatomical knowledge or care, on account of the close neighbourhood^ the posterior tibial artery, which I once divided in performmgthisopemUon ot acWd it bled very smartly for a few minutes, and having enlarged the wound, I attempt take it upfbut the ends had retracted so much, that I could not succeed, and therefore thought best to bring the edges of the wound together and appl> a compress, took^lace^and°no lunmorrhage occurred. I have been told that such accident are^not very unfrequent, and that no inconvenience follows ; but theie can be o better avoided.—J. F. S.] 1381 If the patient be kept quiet, ordinarily no important symptoms come on ; I have not, at least, observed any in my own practme; an thev occur, they would depend rather on the patient s constituti on the operation itself, if properly conducted. Should inflammation ensue, and if it be not dispersed by cold applications, the pits nn- 1 evacuated and by proper treatment the extension of the supp • ^fX^nof t.ve1 tendon prevented. If after this operation, and if m some cases of old and \erj co occur