384 TREATMENT OE FOREIGN however, became worse, were followed by convulsions, and, between ten and elew o’clock of the same evening, the child died. Having obtained permission, Coon opened the larynx with a lancet, and found a piece of fish-bone situated just at tl alottis which he readily hooked out with his nnger-nai . # i D Brown (a) mentions the case of a woman who in eating oatmeal porndg swallowed a piece of a broken delf plate, which pierced the asophagus on the right s.d midway between the cricoid cartilage and the breast-bone. She soon made an effort vomTt lnd a discharge of blood from the mouth ensued and repeated on the passage a p“obang which she thought displaced the bit of delf. On the day following she w Sd’a protog was twite passed with facility. Leeches a.td eeHloti, telt exteinany , P & the inflammation had almost ceased, and she swi were applied, ai siJwas attacked with pain in the stomach, which last, lowed well. On the mnth ^omRed a pint of dark foetid blood, which continued two days, and on twelfth dav she spat up more than a pint of brown feet as that organ was comparatively empty from the acc t it of the stomac. the fecal discharges. i Town has given me the following ca* low it with the morsel in her mouth. In ^P^ ^ CQU|h and , throat, produced a constant pncki g, c shortly after by a medical man,» peated attempts at deg utition. aLse of local irntatk examined the throat, and, finding &g wag worse> aud an emetic was given, whi- and treated it accordingly. y ^ threaten immediate suffocatr quickly aggravated the symptoms to suchmnextent, as to tbrea ^ ^ ^ ^ Twenty-four hours aftei the acciden , immediately below the cricoid cartilag once to perform tracheotomy, which he d d y catheter, which relieved h and, scooping out its under edge, he in u subsided he made an examinan directly. Four hours after, when the> spa® %suWe4 he m ^ , with his finger, by the mouth and could just fcel^ b■ COmmand of the fing- made, the point of what lie took for a pm , but it was into the throat, ai He then passed a pair of dressing foi ceps, bent f P P . during two hours, after persevering efforts, as the patient s ex laiis ion ^ penetrated the mucr last succeeded in pullingtout a bnsOe,, whuch, he ;r?itatio„, had preniue membrane at the root of the epiglottis, and, y t F S 1 Spasm of the glottis. The patient speedily recovered.-J. F. *] * 1733. When the body lias caused severe inflammatio « u traction of the oesophagus, all attempts at its and the treatment confined simply to blood-letti o' these mea tions, and if there be accompanying spasm, opium. ^have dimi the inflammation, swelling and contraction of the oph^us ^ ished, it not unfrequently happens that the ho j B 4 A lSneQ) a au - M A removed one way or another. . . j ffn frequently lot 1734. Whether the body be drawn up or thrust ani„iation, a inconveniences remain in the asophagus, “ and soothi snnnuration, which require corresponding antipniog subsequt treatment. ’ Narrowing of the axophagus^[SnU ensue, period, and if the body be bulky, s«PP^o» « ,L. 1 („) Edinburgh Med. and surg. Journal, >ol. xxx P