779 MIR AULT’S MODE OF TYING THE TONGUE. 1 f l K k 1 K a n Ilf ll't lif W*> y,b re Ilf) *0 m 18 FT If) ») As Cloquet bad previously opened the bottom of the mouth for the introduction of a ligature, so Mirault (a) proceeded in a case, in which he had fruitlessly endeavoured to find the lingual artery on one side, although he had taken it up, with difficulty, on the other, after which, the tumour diminished, but increased again. He made a cut from the chin to the tongue-bone, directly in the space between the m. geniohyoidei, through which he pierced the tongue at the middle of its base, and surrounded the left half with a ligature, the ends of which hung down from the neck, and were there tied. Afterwards he tied the other half. If thus tied at two different times, the cancer may be cured without mortification of the tongue, which retains its shape and activity. According to Mirault, the cut into the bottom of the mouth is assisted, if the tongue be drawn well forward with a hook, and a needle curved sideways with a handle, like Desault’s aneurysmal needle, be thrust through the middle line of the tongue from above down- wards, so that its point protrude below, at the part where the tie is to be made • the one end of the thread is now to be held fast, the needle with the other end drawn back and then the threads tied. ’ M ith Mirault s, agrees the practice of Regnoli (b) for removal of the tongue. He made three cuts in the form of J from the lower edge of the point of the chin to the tongue-bone, and on either side to the front edge of the m. masseter. The skin, cellular w ViT ”£■ Plfnsmui myoides, were dissected off, a pointed straight bistoury thrust behind the chin from above downwards, the insertion of the m. geniohyoidei and qenio- ‘h,ro?gh’ a,1(1 the mucous membrane of the mouth divided. With a button- hranf 7fStL Ury’ ^lnsertIons of the m- digastrici and mylohyoidei, and the mucous mem- brane of the mouth were now cut through up to the pillars of the soft palate. After tying a few vessels, the tip of the tongue was seized with Museux’s forceps, and drawn down nulkd w7nr ?pening, j’° that the tongue was seen on the front of the neck, and p lied well down with the fingers. Several ligatures were now applied with i lono- shelrs ^ °-' th® t0ngUe ’ the tongue cut off with a small pair of shears in front of the ligature; its stump returned into the cavity of the mouth and ™7Ut “outh t0 k-P d°wn the i/flammatbn ’ Of1rirlof'fifteen1 *tll^ 0peration a malignant tumour of the tongue and ,£tL * fi.fteen> which was as large as a pullet’s egg, projected from the upper fa,JOd surface at its right side from nearly half an inch of its apex to the isthmus {xtended Tnd R!'0 U<Jed -f edge. between the teeth. « The head being slightly an A? ?\fS- hrde-\ felt’ a“ ,rjcisi0n was made over it, upwards and ’forwards7 ch and a half in length, on the mesial line, through the skin, cellular subs tan no’ fidthe mylQthyoid muscles. With the edge°of the knife?but cLiefly byits dossdmnLr35 f°r t ]e fiDger between the two genio-hyoid and the two^effio- means A teaaculum was next passed through the apex of the tongfe by i?^7£^e’aftlen°to Stftrf SSS longitudinally on the upper surface ofthfV f, • tu?.10ur 1 the otller was placed , .fe as possible,) the diseased mass was circum- Hill in B/imQ tnnncno - O • i • - . _ , third ligature was at tliis part, the % "touted she^ bSfimafi ThiS Proceeding fixed the tongAe in night on milk by an elastic catheter n-i« ,',CU,?te or swallow. She was fed for a fort- "Sbhagiis. The swelling of the P^sed along the left side of the tongue into the j swelling of the sound part of the tongue, and the salivation which A^u®tMNoC32.de rarU’ V01’ “• P- 507 (J) Bulletino . , ,, , 1839. No. 181. (c) Med.-Clnr. Trans., vol. xxll. 1839 ilello Scienze Mediche. Jan.