167 TREATMENT. ,of a key fitting the quadrangular end of the screw; thus the apparatus acts like fGKAEFE’s. For the purpose of making graduated pressure I do not employ cushions, i hut elastic bands, (after Joeuge’s plan,) which iu cyphosis lie upon the back, and are attached to brass studs on both rods; but in scoliosis, to the studs on one rod over the projecting side of the trunk, between it and the ascending rod, for the purpose of Esurrounding the whole body, and again is attached to the stud of the first rod. In incli- nation in two opposite directions, this yoke may be applied, also in contrary directions. If the shoulder-blade particularly project, I carry an elastic band over the more elevated shoulder, and fastened behind and before to that going around the body. I allow this ft apparatus to be worn day and night over a close shirt. From its careful employment tv l have derived the happiest results (a). 1 J 1359. It were superfluous to enter on a special criticism of the several tpparatus. Those contrivances only which at once effect extension and pressure can act efficiently. Of the portable apparatus of this kind, those mly answer the object which have their point of support on the pelvis, md are so constructed that they cause no painful pressure, nor too great :ompression of the chest, and so on. With proper consideration of the >oints still to be mentioned in reference to special treatment, the cure may ndeed be effected with these apparatus in incipient and slight degrees of ■urvature, and specially in lateral curvature produced by unequal muscular .ctivity, as I have so frequently had opportunity to observe in the use of ny above-described apparatus, which is distinguished from that in which liressure is made by the cushions, by the lateral elastic bands. Such | avourable result is, however, only possible with close and careful attention “ nd when, especially, all the circumstances of the patient are properlv egulated. When this is not the case, the disease becomes really worse 'r at *east the time is lost which could have been best employed for be cure of the deformity. For all great degrees of curvature, such eatment is insufficient; a continued employment of the extending appa- itus is necessary, the operation of which is not equally certain as that of ie portable apparatus, and among which that is best, in which at the ime time, bands are attached, to operate on the opposite sides’ of the •unk, as, for instance, in the extending apparatus of Deepech, Langen- eck, and others. 1360. Such treatment can only in reality be carried on with suitable j mth!.spJcia inst,Ultlons .for.the purpose; and this is the reason why of |te these (orthopedic) institutions have become so veiy numerous There I! however, a well grounded complaint, that in many of them the entire : eatment is conducted in a too mechanical manner; and that by too lono- ’ « “Se °,f ,‘hc f te"di?S Watus, with constant the gr E ?aiUSld t0 the W ,0 e constitution of the patient; so that as I ^fortunately have seen in several cases, with slight or merely transit™ diffiralt * * * l Si^kinT, °f the Spine Me proper 2i! ‘'7 J c™*5 the lat7 “ntl especially by ■ new and very successful nathTth* i sl'oh l?ymuastics, of having opened I n) Gbcb ^ successtul path in the treatment of this deformity. eliiis«nfi ^'wnanSm^l^Mitate^JcuTaccedft pei“plateg.rbi do3CriPUo- 1825- 4to.; with cop-