OF TIIE URETHRA. 355 j or even for some weeks. I met with a case in which a rigor followed the applica- > ion of caustic to a stricture, and this was followed by an attack of mania, which (if my Kecollectiou be correct) did not subside for nearly a month. Another patient had | -poured under a stricture of the urethra for many years, during which no instrument . iad ever been made to enter the bladder. I succeeded in introducing a small gum i atheter. Having emptied the bladder, I removed the catheter. In a few hours after j pere was a severe rigor. An attack of fever ensued, attended with rheumatic inflam- nation of the muscles of the neck, from the effect of which the patient never entirely :r ecovered, though he lived for many years afterwards.” (pp. 27, 8.)] 1676. The origin of stricture always depends on, and is accompanied t vith, a chronic inflammatory state of the mucous membrane of the urethra, ii >y which it is swollen up, thickened, and loses its natural extensibility. t n many instances the immediate cause of stricture is unknown. It is u requently observed after gonorrhoea, especially if that have been long nr ontinued, and improperly treated. The causal relations, however, which i he stricture has to a previous clap, are often unknown, as it is observed i fter both severe and slight clap, whether treated with or without injec- ions. Strictures, also, commonly appear long after gonorrhoea, often as sj ong as thirty or forty years. Neither their seat nor their extent at all { orresponds with that of the previous gonorrhoeal inflammation. Scrofu- tp ous or gouty inflammation, long-continued onanism, accidents which tefal the urethra, and long suffering with stone in the bladder, especially n old persons, may be causes of stricture. Warm climates seem to be nore favourable to their development than cold. Varicose swellings of he vessels, as well as tumours in the neighbourhood of the urethra, may 1 .Iso produce them. [ Brodie mentions that “ in some cases of long standing, we find a gristly in- larated mass at the lower portion of the penis, where it is covered by the scrotum. Hus is, probably, in some instances, the contracted portion of the urethra, thickened •nd converted into a substance approaching in its character to cartilage. But, in other ases, it depends on a different cause. A gentleman laboured under a stricture, and •oided his urine with great difficulty. A hard oblong tumour could be felt in the ieighbourhood of the stricture, though somewhat anterior to it, at the upper part of the crotum. I dilated the stricture so as to enable the patient to introduce a bougie for him- clf; but still the stricture remained unaltered. He died about a year afterwards of an accidental attack of disease in the brain; and I found, on dissection, that the tumour iad arisen from a deposition of lymph into the cells of the corpus spongiosum. Imme- diately^ behind the stricture there was an orifice leading into a long and narrow sinus, ^tending from the urethra into the gristly substance of the tumour. The direction of be sinus was from behind forwards, so that it was evident that it could not have been produced by the improper use of the bougie. I conclude that it was the result of the orcible and the repeated pressure of the urine against the urethra behind the stricture ” PP- 8, 9.)] 1677. The most common seat of stricture is at four and a half, or five and a . inches from the orifice of the urethra, rarely at other parts (1). The itrictured part is, according to the duration of the complaint, more or less !,’ '''hite> almost fibrous, generally of slight extent, not exceeding a me s breadth, as if the urethra were tied round with a thread ; but some- mnes it is wider, and then not equally thick, and the canal of the urethra is nously curved. These changes seem to result from repeated severe attacks •endp^f"1^1-0?’ which even affect tlie sPongy body of the urethra, and lt .I r 11 ^lck and hard. Sometimes several distinct strictures exist Stricture does not always attack the whole circum- n V the urethra, it is often valvular, or tape-like, divided and branch- loticJT .sornet™es runs lengthways. Not unfrequently strictures are j ie middle of which is ulcerated. Complete closure of the urethra 2 a 2