URINARY STONE, (d) Lectures, above cited, p.245. (e) Taylor s Catalogue, pari i. p. 129. moves and rattles. Two examples in my collection of urinary stone 1 prove this (a). Cruvelheer (b) showed, in the Anatomical Society at Paris, a very large urinar i stone, of which the nucleus was originally a clot of blood. [ C1) The circumstance of a foreign body in the bladder becoming coated by uric aci 4 is exceedingly rare. There is only one specimen of the kind in the Museum of the Roy! I College of Surgeons. It has a splendid piece of steel for its nucleus, A 126.—T. T. _(2) The quickness with which catheters, especially those of elastic gum are coate « with earthy deposits after remaining constantly in the bladder for three or four days, > 1 known to every one who has had the least experience. Upon this account, it becomt I necessary when a catheter is constantly worn, that if elastic, it should be replaced by J new one, or if of silver or other metal, should be withdrawn, cleaned, and returned ever j four or six days, otherwise the deposit upon that part of it in the bladder becomes s I considerable, that it will often be removed with difficulty, and almost always scrape th Q urethra as it is withdrawn, and add much to the patient’s uneasiness. There are feV-.'l Museums which have not specimens of extraneous bodies introduced into the bladder' which have become nuclei of stones. In the College Museum, there are examples of ; silver bodkin, of a sewing needle, of a pea, a hat-pin, a bougie, a piece of bone, &c. There are also two instances in which soap has formed the nucleus. It is probable ffia. i in these cases “ a solution of soap had been injected into the bladder ; mutual decom i position of the soap and the salts of urine has been the necessary result; the alkali ofthr former uniting with and forming soluble compounds with the phosphoric and other acid:, of the urine, while the earthy bases of the urine have precipitated, in combination wit! the fatty acids of the soap, in the form of a semi-gelatinous sparingly soluble compound.. being in fact an earthy soap, consisting of margarate and oleate of lime” (c). In the Museum at St. Thomas’s, there is a stone having a large piece of brass nail as its nucleus And another stone of good size, and about an ounce in weight, which had formed nearly on the middle of a female catheter, that had escaped from the fingers of the Surgeon,- whilst drawing off the water, who, fearful of getting into trouble, said nothing about the. accident. Some months after, the woman had symptoms of stone, and was cut by Astley Cooper ; the catheter lay across the bladder, and its ends were pretty tightly fixed; but one end having been freed by introducing the finger, it was easily withdrawn.- Brodie (d) mentions a hazel nut as forming the nucleus of a stone in a female; and in another case, a man occasionally subject to retention of urine “ passed a flower stalk through the urethra into the bladder, using it as a bougie. In an evil hour, the j extremity of the flower stalk,was broken off, it became incrusted with calculous matter i forming the nucleus of a stone,” for which he was operated on by Evetiard Home. He also mentions some small oblong stones from a female bladder, “ each of which has a small fine hair running longitudinally through its centre.” (3) In St. Thomas’s Museum there is a beautiful example of a pin forming the nucleus of an oblong stone. The child, a male infant, had been put upon the floor by his nurse, and immediately began to scream violently, and without any apparent cause. Some months after he had symptoms of stone in the bladder, for which he was cut by Astj.ey Cooper, and this stone removed. Foreign bodies of such size are sometimes i pushed up into the vagina, and slip beyond reach of the patient, who, being ashamed of making her condition known at the time when she might he relieved, the foreign body remains fixed, and will produce ulceration of that part of the bladder against which it j presses, and incontinence of urine; at the same time also it becomes more or less j covered with calcareous deposit. The College Museum has a remarkable instance of this kind, II. a. 13. “A tumbler in an entire state wTas introduced into the vagina of an j unmarried female, about twenty years of age. On her attempting to withdraw it, its 1 upper edge was broken, by which the bladder was wounded, and incontinence of urine produced. In this situation it remained for nearly two years, when it was removed by ] Mr. Anthony White, who, finding the tumbler to be closely embraced by the vagina- i and quite immovable, broke away the sides of the glass with instruments having notches, I filed at their extremities like the wards of a key, until he was enabled to introduce a - lever behind it. * * * A large horizontal slit was found in the bladder immediately • above its cervix” (e). My friend Arnott tells me of a woman, about forty-two years of age, admitted into the Middlesex Hospital with presumed disease of the uterus, and with incontinence of urine. On examination, a gallipot was found in the vagina, mouth («) Eook.kt, Vcralic.il. die Entsteliung dcs (ft) Behrend’s Allgcmeincs Repertorimn. p. 7»- Blase nsteines zh cri-rtern; in Rust's Magar.in, ltt'3, Oct. vol. xiii. pt. iii. p. 367. (r) Taylor’s Catalogue, part i. p. 129.