WITHOUT OPENING THE SAC. 43 to return the contained parts, on account of the great adhesion and dege- neration, the hernial sac must merely be laid bare at the abdominal rino-, the strangulation relieved, and the rupture left where it was (1). That mode of operating in which the hernial sac is not to be at all opened, but only the abdominal ring dilated so as to return the hernial sac together with the intestine, is, in general, to be rejected, and the not opening of the sac to be most especially confined to those cases in which it is certain that in a recently produced or extraordinary large rupture, or in a rupture entirely adhering to the neck of the sac, the strangulation is seated in the abdominal ring. In most cases the connexion between the aponeurotic opening and the hernial sac is so firm that the blunt end of a knife cannot be inserted between them, especially if a truss have been already worn (2). Although Franco and Pare had cut into the abdominal ring and did not open the hernial sac, except when reduction could not be effected, yet the practice was first generally recommended by Petit, in large and adherent ruptures; after him, by Ga- rengeot and Monro, in recent and small ruptures, and more recently by A Cooper • but especially by Key (a) and Preiss (b) has it been laid down, to a certain extent’ as the proper practice (2). The advantages resulting therefrom, are diminution of the’ danger, as the hernial sac is not injured ; as well as that by keeping the air from the cavrty of the belly inflammation, in any injury of an artery effusion of blood into the elly, and also injuring and tearing the intestine in incipient gangrene, are prevented • and when it seems necessary, the opening of the hernial sac can always be made! rhese benefits are, however, sufficiently outweighed by the disadvantages, that without ia° n° Can be obtained of the state and condition of the parts, the I DjhKnC*i, at the neck of the sac may be caused by the entanglement of the intestine and by the peculiar position of the omentum, and the operation, especially in stout persons is very difficult, and therefore only to be confined to the above-mentioned cases P With minM nW wh-Tl!nt be pl,aCed Gu*RIN's (c) subcutaneous incision of the abdo- rin" Jheg’ T he wou d e“P¥ m a11 ruPtures witb recent strangulation from the rin0, where, however, no sloughy destruction of the loop of intestine is to be feared Instrangulatmn by the hernial sac it is not applicable. feamL 1(1) When a rupture is large and old, Surgeons generally follow Astley Cooper’« nrridedndai10n’if diYiding the StrictUre ^thout opening the sac a™avwThe ‘‘Stn vfrvTaSe 7 n0t’be' For tbis he assigns the following relsofs !- the habitual Iocs Of tR d caylt;y of the abdomen is so much diminished by to reSvTthem a/ai^e and if! ^ine and omentum, that it becomes scarcely able endangers the hnrftin<r’ f , lf.a reductlon ls attempted, the force necessary to effect it °( i! an inflammation which will probably be attended with n0t g,ve way> f,le r,sk of lastly,^hen'^^^adhesffi^occursaiso much^hn^6^ s ed"g! °r if the stricture ishigW uj. oMhe*twer stricture is situated r/he sactself^ of shrldnotbe °Pened> ™>eSS the describesI made an incision i R d- 7 Per,for.ming the operation he thus mmal ring, exposing it with the knife lnchfS In length, immediately over the alido- uiade a hole “the fZS !r JJ ’ T11-88 the/“- ^hich it sends off. I then behind the 1 thrast 5 Probe-pointed bistoury upon it I divided the V^g iT “C*; a"'1 paSsinS a cu>'ved ohn°Er;;n-- w Gazette Medicate de Paris, 1841. No. 33.