347 OF PHIMOSIS. ,0nsequence; the whole after treatment consists in repeatedly drawing back he skin over the glans and bathing the penis in cold water. In a few lavs the patient is cured without any mutilation. I have frequently performed this operation, with the best result (a). When the cellular tissue connecting the outer with the inner fold of the prepuce, is ess extensible, and the outer fold itself less yielding, the latter must be so far cut nto as to allow the prepuce being very easily drawn backwards and forwards (b). Lanoenbeck (c) proceeds in a similar way, though manifestly less simple and satis- aetory. After an assistant has forcibly drawn back the general coverings, he grasps the ■dge of the prepuce with a pair of forceps, introduced within it, and with a pair of scis- ors makes some little snips at different parts, and so many of them, till the whole irepuce can be completely drawn back. After each snip the prepuce must be still Irawn back, till it be everted and the inner fold come into view, in which he then aakes the snips which may be still necessary. In old and hard prepuce, with little •xtensibility of its inner fold, Begin (d) employs a practice which indeed is to be con- idered as a modified slitting of the prepuce already described. After previously slit- iug up the prepuce, he cuts off the corners of the flaps with scissors, so that the wound ft- ecomes round; he then retracts the skin of the penis, and cuts off the inner fold of the • irepuce. as far back as its base, with the scissors. The skin will soon draw together, nd healing follows, a V-shaped scar being formed on the inner fold, by which its ireadth is increased. According to Vidal de Cassis (e), the operator, whilst an ssistant fixes the prepuce with a strong pair of forceps, from above downwards, passes hrough the prepuce, below the forceps, three transverse threads, and a fourth ver- bally from before backwards ; then with strong scissors he cuts off the prepuce in front f the forceps, avoiding the threads. The forceps being then removed, the glans is artially exposed with the threads over it. The middle of each thread is now taken aid of with forceps, and being drawn a little forwards, four loops are made, each f which being cut through, eight sutures are formed, which after just sufficiently cut- ing through the inner fold of the prepuce strongly retracted are tied, and thus the dges of the outer and inner fold of the prepuce brought into contact. 1659. If the prepuce be united to the glans, after that it has been cut nto where not united, the connexion must be separated with the spatula h he scissors, or the knife; but if their junction be so complete that no nstrument can be introduced between the glans and the prepuce, a cut 5 t0 be made carefully lengthways through the prepuce without injuring he glans, and then it must be attempted by lengthening the cut upon he director or by careful dissection, in which the knife is to be always nore towards the prepuce than the glans, to separate the connexion and emove the divided flaps. In all cases where the union is close and firm ‘'here no instrument can be introduced between the glans and prepuce’ ‘ie operation is excessively painful and difficult, and the result rarely cor- S ho0 f exPf ^ation .(/)• In such case therefore the practitioner 0 cut in! c°,ftent’ lf the parent do not urge the more extended operation, otr(xWH° the,rrtUre 0/ the PrePuce so far, and so to enlarge it by the bougies that a free escape of the urine may be effected. isueh ih!;hen thc connexion of the 9l<™s with the prepuce by bands m7any Actions of the penis are interfered with, the operator a assistant the.thumb and forefinger of the left hand, whilst uces * d d°Wn and stretches the prepuce near the bands, intro- Wn formin'0 theU76d ^ b°tt0m °f the triangular fold of (a) Z? ' S the fr<snum’ arid draws °ut- Lint moistened with lead id mXtn mC„n'Ci inquiry into the ancient rethra and mf,'?' °f cun.nS Diseases in the EdUion U &c- *?nd°n> 1*26. Svo. a Pni—• ehrier, Note sur I’Opcration 9 p,iimosis snr ruprration • 305,_r.„vre ’ 1® Revue Medic., vol. viii. himosis: in Ii “I’iPeb^r pbimo»is nnd Para- « Annal- ->■ - iv. n (,C), ^'CU? Bibliothek fiir die Chirurgie und Oplithalmologie, vol. iv. (d) Nonveaux Elemens de Cliirurgie, vol. ii. p. ooO. Second Edition. (e) Traite de Pathologie exteme et de Medecine Operatoirc. Paris, 1838-41. Large Svo. ) Richerand, Nosographio Chirurgicale, vol