KINDS OF RUPTURES. vaginalis, in consequence of partial adhesions of the membrane. The patient had scrotal rupture on the right side, accompanied with symptoms of strangulation. It was reduced with great ease, by gentle application of the taxis. The symptoms, however, continued, and on the following day “ a small tumour was perceptible in the course of the inguinal canal.” On the third day he was worse, and an operation having been decided on, “ after dividing the integuments, superficial fascia, and cremaster, in the usual manner, what appeared to be hernial sac was brought into view; this was laid open, and on the operator introducing his finger, it readily passed through the external ring into the inguinal canal; here an unnatural projection could be felt, but no gut was found, nor could the finger be passed into the abdomen. The inguinal canal was then exposed by slitting up the tendon of the external oblique, and the sac before mentioned was more extensively opened, still no intestine could be found, and no commu- nication appeared to exist between the sac and the abdominal cavity. A substance was felt in the canal which resembled a thickening of the cord.” Nothing more was done, and he died on the second day after the operation. Upon examination, the part “ supposed to be hernial sac, and opened as such, was the reflected portion of the tunica vaginalis, into the cavity of which the finger had been introduced.” The tumour in the course of the inguinal canal was a hernial sac, behind the cord, and containing a portion of strangulated intestine of a very dark colour, and with a large gangrenous spot. This hernia, had by its pressure, prevented the entrance of the finger into the belly. “ Just below the opening of the tunica vaginalis into the abdomen, was situated the mouth of a preternatural pouch, which extended downwards and inwards behind the fascia transversalis in the direction of the crural ring. It was into this pouch that a portion of the ileum had descended and had there become strangulated. It seems pro- bable that at the time of the man’s admission into the hospital, a large portion of intes- tine had descended into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, the cavity of which bore all the appearances of an old hernial sac. This, however, was easily returned, while the pot tion of bowel contained in the other pouch, remained unreduced and suffering under strangulation, caused the symptoms which ended in the patient’s death.” (p. 83.) U1, ,^?e museum at St. Bartholomew’s there are two beautiful preparations, one exhibiting two inguinal hernial sacs, on the left side, close together and of considerable length, the mouth of the outer very small; the other femoral, in which there are two distinct sacs and orifices, the outer descends beneath the semi-lunar edge of the fascia Lata, but the inner is so small that it scarcely protrudes. . Sometimes the sac of a rupture is divided vertically into two, probably by adhesive inflammation. I have operated on one such scrotal case. In St. Bartholomew’s museum there is a common scrotal and also a congenital scrotal rupture of similar kind. n rare cases, one or other side of the sac of a femoral rupture is burst, and a part of its contents are protruded in either direction, so as to form a seeming second sac. I have ad three cases of this kind, which will be hereafter noticed, and the case mentioned by as-tley Cooper, in which “ one hernial sac descended into the sheath for the crural 1 C[°SSeu the au,ter.10r P.art of these, and another portion of it quitted the sheath kind Sf m n USUll dlreCtl0D up0u the thiSh>” CP- 4), I believe4to be of similar byBransuy CoopSr— J^lTs'f’ t0 bC confused with the case described and figured 1118- Ruptures are either free, or reducible, (frei, beweglich, Germ. • mobile, fir.,) when they return of themselves, or can be returned by moderate pressure; or irreducible, (unbeweglicli, Germ. ; immobile, Fr ) when their return is impossible, the cause of which lies in the adhesion J the intestines together or to the hernial sac, in the strangulation or r change of the parts found in the rupture, r 9' As regards their origin, ruptures maybe divided into original Lat.; angeborne Bruch, Germ.; Hernie congenital,, ■) and acquired (Hernia acquisitce, Lat.; erworbene Bruch, Germ • Fr,i; in the first case the intestines Pass through the processes h- t lC PerU.oneum’ whlch remain open ; in the second, after the P 1120 ti G C osef or at some °ther place. sional ' °f abclomillal ruptures are predisposing and occa- acauiml 1 ed!sP°'?ltl0n to rupture, which may be either original or <1 j onsists in a relaxation and weakness of the wall of the belly,