724 DIAGNOSIS BETWEEN MEDULLARY FUNGUS soon sink ; sometimes it continues till the melanosis runs on to an ope- ulcer; then from the clefts and fissures of the broken-up swelling ! escapes a black fluid, and mixed with pus wlien the neighbouring par. $ have been destroyed. These openings sometimes heal, sometimes brea-™ out again, and run on to destructive sloughing and the like. Upon the subject of Melanosis, the following writers may be coi suited :— Bayle, Recherclies sur la Phtliisie pulmonaire, Obs. xx. xxi. Paris, 1810. Laennec ; in Journal de Medecine, par Corvisart, &c., vol. ix. p. 368. Merat; in Diet, des Sciences Medicates, Article Melanose, vol. xxxii. p. 183. 18bH Cazenave ; in Diet, de Medec., Article Melanose, vol. xix. p. 324. 1839. Breschet, Considerations sur une alteration organique appele'e Degeneration noil . Melanose, Cancer melane, etc. Paris, 1821. Heusinger, C. F.,’Untersuchmigen iiber die anomalen Kohlen-und Pigment-Bildun.:^ Eisenach, 1823. von Walther, above cited, p. 567. Noack, C. A., De Melanose cum in hominibus turn in eqpis obveniente. Lips.; wi< 5 three copper plates. Cullen, Will., and Carswell, R., M.D., On Melanosis; in Medico-Chirun* Trans, of Edinburgh, vol. i. p. 264. 1821. Fawdincton, Thomas, A Case of Melanosis, with general Observations on the Pat | ology of this interesting disease. London, 1826 ; with a plate. Schilling, E.. Dissert, de Melanosi. fol. Francof., 1831. . M Carswell, Robert, M.D., Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, iv. Melanoma. London, 1834- Vogel, above cited. 2304. If the above-mentioned appearances of medullary fungus \ \ compared with the internal condition of scirrhus, the following di> tinguishing characters may be observed. The tissue of scirrhus, must not be confounded with induration, equally at its onset forms firm, incompressible substance, which when cut into thin layers, is senM transparent, has the consistence of cartilage and fibro-cartilage, even that of lard, with which it agrees in appearance, and is composed ott* different substances ; the one hard and fibrous, the other soft, am inorganic appearance. The fibrous part forms various partitions ax- cavities without arrangement, in which is contained the softc - ( ordinarily of a pale brownish, sometimes bluish greenish, wtat* reddish colour, similar to hardened albumen: the fibrous part has times a cartilaginous hardness. But especially are the proportion these substances very different. Sometimes the fibrous substance f the nucleus, from which the partitions spread in every direction and, ^ cut through, presents a radiated appearance. Oftentimes the swell g an uniform hardness, in which no distinct tissue can be traced. ^„tl times encysted tumours form in the scirrhus, filled with ditt ^ coloured fluids. Ulceration always begins in these t™SKuher fro’ cessively severe stabbing, lancinating, burning pain, extending e . . _ t.ritlnn nnfwnn c nnfl flPP.OITlD8.DlGd ltn 8 3 I * . a \