648 KINDS OF TUMOURS. matous Sarcoma. Laennec admits a fourfold variety of the tissue ii which these tumours are formed, namely, the tuberculous, scirrhous, cere briform, and melanosis. Meck.ee considering Laennec’s melanosis th( same as Abernethy’s tuberculated and medullary sarcoma, points out si> different tissues, the pancreatic, the mammilloid, the cerebriform or me- dullary, the scirrhous, and the tuberculous or scrofulous. 2153. John Muller (a) has very recently endeavoured, from micro- scopico-chemical observations, to found a division of tumours, according, to "their chemical nature, their microscopic structure, and the manner of their development. In reference to their chemical composition, all tu- mours are, according to the elementary parts of which they consist, either fatty tumours, jelly-yielding (b), or albuminous tumours ; other substances, 'as osmazome, saliva, caseine, and so forth, may indeed be present in them, but only in small quantity proportionally to the principal elementary parts. The more minute microscopic elements of tumours are, besides capillary vessels, fibres, granules, cells without and with nuclei, tailed or spindle- shaped corpuscles, vessels, and by far the most common element is cells. The principle of dividing tumours into groups can be obtained neither merely from their minute structure nor their chemical nature ; for tumours the most, differing in reference to their physiological nature and curability,* may equally possess the most delicate structure; in similar structures chemical differences may exist; with similar chemical nature, there may, be difference of structure, or difference in respect of physiological pecu- liarities and curability. In the formation of groups these several points: must be taken into consideration. 2154. These various opinions serve to prove how difficult it is to make- an accurate and sufficient division of tumours dependent on their unnatural- structure. The ground of this difficulty rests, without doubt, on the' manifold changes to which the diseased matter is subject in the various periods of the development of the tumour ; further, on the undistinguish- able influence which the natural structure of an organ has upon the after- formation developed in it, and on the variety of causes upon which it de-< pends. There are, therefore, tumours, in which are present, at the same time, several of these diseased products, either lying near to, or intimately 1 connected with each other. But if pathological anatomy be of direct use- and immediate application to practical medicine, it must not rest on e» mere examination of the changes of organic parts and of the substances forming the tumour, and assume these alone as the ground of division ; bu * it must at the same time consider the symptoms, course, and effect upon ’ the immediate neighbourhood, and the whole body, if it would not e * seduced, by incorrect particulars, into subdividing similar diseased con-* ditions. Under this supposition, the number of tumours founded on te above mentioned variety of diseased tissue, may be conveniently referred - to three, namely, medullary fungus, scirrhus, and tubercle, in which case the pancreatic and mammary tissues are to be considered merely as acci- dental modifications of the medullary (c). # | |rai, 2155. These unnatural structures, completely foreign to the na composition of the organism, may agree in general with each other; t ie consist, probably, or for the most part, of albumen; their tissue is (a) Above cited. .... (ll< This is a well-chosen designation, as it is shown by Thkkahd that •• gelatin does not exist in the humours of animals ; but all their soft and solid parts contain the materials rr0J*r fr‘). -- Traite dc Cliimie. vol. iv. P-^- prod action.” 1827. Fifth Edition. (c) Wai.theb, above cited.