346 TREATMENT Covering the point of a narrow bistoury with wax, for the purpose of introducing into the aperture of the prepuce, is unnecessary. Many persons in this operation us j button-ended scissors ; others introduce a director up to the corona glandis, and upon i a narrow-pointed bistoury, whicli they thrust through, after withdrawing the directoi and divide the prepuce as just mentioned. If in consequence of the retraction not having been properly made, the external fol of the prepuce be insufficiently divided, it must be done with the scissors. If the nai. | rowing of the prepuce be of that lcind that slitting it up half way is sufficient, th; must be done, and the flaps cut off obliquely from above downwards, or left to retract I In order to prevent the swelling of the flaps of the prepuce, which, by sewing u getlrer, causes that of the obtuse angled wound, Fricke (a) makes, after the division < > both folds of the prepuce as already directed, a cut of the length of half an mch throng .. the skin to the underlying cellular tissue, towards the root of the penis. The divlsic- of the prepuce at the upper, middle, or under part, is always preferable to that o \s either side. Sometimes the narrowing of the prepuce depends on a hard ring, situated in it inner fold; it is then sufficient to pass a narrow button-ended knife behind this rini and to cut through it in withdrawing the knife. 1656. After the bleeding is stanched, the edges of the wound should b covered with lint, confined with sticking plaster, a small compress, and narrow bandage, and the penis placed upright towards the belly. If in : flammation ensue, cold applications are to be made; and in cedematowH swelling and gangrene, warm ones. The dressings should be removed a often as necessary. 1657. Although circumcision of the prepuce is by many practitionei considered to have great advantages, especially when its aperture is nar rowed merely by a hard ring, if the fore part of the prepuce be not onl unnaturally narrow, but also thickened, relaxed, or to some extent con tracted into a tube (//), yet by this treatment less of the inner than of th outer fold is cut off, and frequently so much less that the object of th operation is not attained, if the inner coat be not also either cut into o cut off- for which reasons the slitting up of the prepuce is., indeed, i o-eneral properly employed (c), and circumcision only in the simultaneou great degeneration of the prepuce, and then the inner fold must be atoj specially divided. It is also always most advisable to remove the Hap after slitting, as already mentioned, as they swell considerably alter operation, remain thick and misshapen, and render connexion painful, o prevent it, and only in children after the lapse of some years resume pi proper size. This renders Cloquet’s proposed operation superfluous. 1658. The operations in which not the whole thickness of the prepu but specially only its inner fold, seem preferable to those alrea y ®enJ tioned. The origin of congenital phimosis is not, as usually supposed, narrowing of the two folds of the prepuce, but merely a want of exte bility in the inner one. The operation may therefore be most simP*y^ formed in the following way. The external skin of the penis should oe rt tracted sufficiently far to discover the aperture of the prepuce, int0 a narrow-pointed bistoury, with its edge upwards, is t0, beJ.m.t,r0?UC a pair of scissors, and some lines distant of both folds divided. , the turners of the left hand the skin is much drawn back over t,ie£ ' which,°thus somewhat uncovered, the slightly extensible inner fo e PP tightly stretched over the glans, and preventing the retraction o P puce y This inner fold is now to be divided either with the knife or as often as is necessary till the prepuce is quite free> upon t*e >f „ capable of being brought backwards and forwards. The bleom g ^ („■) Annal. dor chimrg. Abtli. des Hamburger (t>) Lodkr, above cited, p. 36.-R'cBT**’ (a) /vniiiu. * fangsgrnnde, vol vi. p. 191. Krankenha , • ' (c) Zanq ; Operntioncn, vol. iil. pp. 34 and 40. •m In