967 IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION. tendon, the wound heals by suppuration, and then the extirpation is performed. This practice is objectionable, because thereby inflammation of the sheath of the tendon may be set up; it is also unnecessary, because the tendon unites with the scar (a). . [I take the opportunity, in concluding the subject of amputation through the shaft or in the continuity of bone, and through the joint or in the contiguity of bone, to add Liston s cases to my own for the purpose of making a better average of the recoveries and deaths after the operation for amputation. Of Liston’s cases . . 52 Recoveries . . 45 Deaths . . 7 Of my own cases . 54 „ . . 42 » • *12 106 87 19- Making a per centage of 82.075 recoveries, and 17.925 deaths to the whole number of cases operated upon. IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION. The question of Immediate Amputation has been already discussed (b) in treating of compound fracture, and to this the reader will refer. From the reports of the amputa- tions which I have given, it is proved, as I there stated, that primary amputation is more serious in its effect on the constitution, when performed on the lower than on the upper limbs, and more especially when the thigh is the part of the member subjected to that operation. If, however, a much-injured thigh be not at once removed, the patient almost invariably has a fearful struggle with irritative or with hectic fever, if he escape the former, but more commonly he has to pass through both, and dies in consequence Of his powers being completely worn out. The Surgeon is therefore placed in a most difficult.situation in determining whether he shall amputate the thigh, or through it at once. I he danger to the patient is great if the operation be performed, as my reports prove; the danger is as great and the patient’s sufferings severe, protracted, and with- out good result, if the operation be not performed, as I have witnessed again and again. On the whole, I am inclined to believe that primary amputation of or through the thio-h is o be preferred. But with regard to the leg, the danger is very much less, and in the several parts of the upper limbs, comparatively trivial, and, therefore, according to my experience, amputation in these cases should not be deferred. ,JoH.^ Hijnteii indeed thought differently, and preferred secondary amputation incase ot accidents : and his opinion is too important to be passed by unnoticed. He says (cj : a man gets a very bad compound fracture in the leg, or has his leg taken off, either for °r m c°nseT,e'lce of any other accident, he stands a much worse chance of Zn! y, r ?,"e wh,” bas bee“ accustomed to a local disease ; even the man with the compound fracture will do much better, if his leg is not taken off till the first symptoms wiVnoUm^eatfrf We T7 be. ccrtai,n that tbe symptoms arising from the amputation will not be nearly so great as those that arise at first from the fracture, or would have healtt u 1,mme< late amPOtation. * * * For, first, I do not look upon full health as the best condition to resist disease; disease is a state of body which requires h^m , Her th bro?ksdisease ill, and full health is often above par ; persons in full health are too often at the full stretch of action, and cannot bear an ucreaseIsnecial ! S,r„r,ml; s*as 1 h,7 bef“oter,cd-u is * ss tion, and till it be in some degree accustomed to local disease it is less able in h,,.,,. constitution Ins but nno * er\ • . . * 01 you amputate immediately, the •he '"uch b"“» wl.™ V’ hhlc hectares (e). which 1 regret my limits have not I would reemTimrn 1 t',USe °r '’ but 'v’ llch arc of such deep interest and importance that would recommend them for careful perusal, and specially to Army and Navy Sur- («) On Inflammation, Sec. (rf) Lectures. (e) Lectures on Amputation, and on the nature progress, and terminations of the Injuries for which it is required ; in Lancet. 1840-41 ; vol. i. and ii (?) Memoires sur de non relies Methodes pour AmpntatUm dans lea Articulations du in Kev,rw , ,Mctfarp<' nvcc los Phalanges; in lteroe Med'cale. 1813; vol. i. p. “ ’ W Vol. i. p. 518-23, par. 590, note.