303 OF PILES. ligature to piles. Petit (a) mentions the case of a woman in whom, under very l ourable circumstances, he tied three piles, which at first did not cause much pain ; , five hours after, she was attacked with violent colicky symptoms, for which she was dfour times without benefit; the ligatures were then removed, the symptoms yielded, 1 the patient recovered. In another case related by Petit, five ligatures were applied once, inflammation and swelling of the belly, vomiting and hiccough ensued; the itures were removed, but the patient died. And he observes:—“ I compare these nptoms with those, accompanying a rupture, in which a small portion of intestine is uigulated; if this kind of rupture be not speedily relieved, the patients die, some- les in thirty or forty hours, of gangrenous inflammation of the whole belly, but par- ilarly of the intestines; thus this patient died before the conclusion of the second (p. 125.) Kikhy mentions two similar cases, one of which was scarcely saved, and other died of tetanus. Brodie relates two fatal cases after ligature, in one of ieh the patient died, “ in consequence of diffuse inflammation of the cellular mem- ,ue running up on the outside of the gut as high as the mesentery; but it was in a stitution broken down by long-continued haemorrhage, and in whom any slight ident might have produced equally bad consequences.” In the other case, the patient, ii week after the operation, and having been quite well in the interval, had an attack of n in the abdomen, and shivering attended with fever, and died. An examination of body not having been allowed, the precise cause of death was not ascertained.” p. 844. ‘ The safest and best way,” says Copeland, “ is to pass a ligature round one only of tumours at a time, the most painful and troublesome of them, and to wait until the ient has quite recovered from this operation before anything more be attempted, if 'thing more should be still necessary. * * * It is better that this operation by ligature uld be repeated two or three times, if it should become necessary, than that the ours should all be removed at once, at the imminent risk of the life of the patient.” 64, 5.) t is right that the day before the operation the patient’s bowels should be cleared h castor oil or rhubarb, which prevents the necessity for disturbing them for a few is afterwards. Brodie recommends that the piles should be well protruded by silting ver a pan of hot water, which will relax the sphincter muscle, and at the same time iilse the veins of the rectum to become filled with blood. If this be not sufficient, let the ient have a pint or two of warm water thrown up as an enema, and when that les away, the piles will probably descend. * * * Let the patient lean over a table, lie on one side in bed, with his knees drawn up, the nates being held apart by an stant. Each separate pile must be separately tied. If it be of a very small size, you jy just take it up, with a double tenaculum, draw it out. and tie a ligature round its e. But if the piles be of large size, a large curved needle, armed with a strong ble ligature, is to be introduced through the base of one of the piles, and the needle a cut off. The double ligature is now divided into two single ones, which are tied nd the base of the pile ; one on one side, and the other on the other, with a single )t. * * * When each pile is thus secured, cut off the convex portion of each pile, so b o make an opening into the cavity of the convoluted vein which forms it. Thus you i e off the tension produced in the pile by the blood which it contains, and are enabled t lraw the ligature tighter than before. It should be drawn as tight as possible; for r n the subsequent pain will be less, and the separation of the slough quicker. A ■ ‘ble knot having been made on each ligature, the threads are to be cut off close to 1 knots, and the piles, and the remains of the ligatures returned into the rectum. In >ut a week the ligatures are generally detached; and at this period the bowels should kept gently open with lenitive electuary and sulphur, and cold water be thrown up !■ rectum every morning, in order to prevent a recurrence of the disease.” (p. 844.)J 1-549. The extirpation of the large swellings, degenerated piles, is - tformed in the following way. After the bowels have been emptied a purge, and shortly before the operation by a clyster, the patient is to placed on his belly with his buttocks raised, or upon his knees and elbows, upon the side, in which case the opposite thigh is to be drawn up vards the belly, and the buttocks separated by an assistant. In internal es, the swelling having been protruded by the pressure and straining of - patient, also after the employment of a warm hip or vapour bath, is le grasped with broad-bladed forceps drawn forwards, and the pro- lng part cut off at one or more strokes with curved scissors. In the (a) Cliuvres Posthumes, vol. ii.