LARYNGOTOMY. 400 of which corresponds to the crico-thyroid ligament. A second cut divi( | the cellular tissue between the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscl and lays bare the crico-thyroid ligament ; the bleeding must be stanch with a sponge dipped in cold water. The lurynx is then to be fixed wi a finger on each side, and the forefinger of the same hand placed on t upper third of the ligament; after which a lancet is thrust in, and! wound of sufficient extent made, which is to be kept open by inserting [ between the angle of the skin and of the muscular wound, and the win covered with gauze, and the patient allowed to bend his head towards * chest. This method appears preferable to using the tracheotome and introducing a tube i the aperture made in the crico-thyroid ligament, for the tube always excites inc venient, and frequently unbearable irritation, is frequently stopped up, and eanv I be properly fastened. The cases in which cutting into the windpipe is perforn J" are urgent, and the tracheotome cannot be sufficiently commanded. If the opening i:, the crico-thyroid ligament be insufficient, the cut must be lengthened through the cric cartilage. For the purpose of effecting expectoration, if much tough mucus coll the wound must occasionally be held with the fingers, and the patient allowed to cou 4 If a canula be used, it should always be sufficiently large. For the purpose of avoiding an often not inconsiderable arterial branch upon crico-thyroid membrane, we must feel with the finger if the membrane be quite ba and when it is exposed, we must endeavour to avoid it, for which purpose the membrt1 is to be divided transversely at the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage. [Some persons are in the habit of introducing a tube into the larynx after hav I opened it. This as a general rule is quite unnecessary, as if there be any fear of , wound closing before the air can recover its usual course through the rima glottidis is better to cut out a piece of either the laryngeal or tracheal cartilage, as may >1 according to Lawrence’s recommendation. And it is also improper, as a opening will be formed, which on the subsequent removal of the canula, may contracl J as to require a second operation, and often cannot be done without. If, however, st * practice be adopted, it will be necessary that the instrument should be taken out fr time to time to ascertain that it has not been corroded; for if not, it may break, and I part within drop down the windpipe, whilst that without falls from the wound, with A notice. A case of this kind was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital in DeceniL I 1844; a tube had been introduced about two and a half years previously, and on morning of his admission whilst walking along the street, it slipped out broken, symptoms of consequence, however, appeared till towards evening, when the breath: | became difficult, and attended with a whistling noise; the veins of his head and f. p distended, and the surface covered with cold perspiration. My colleague and assists the younger Travers, therefore, thought it necessary to pare the edges of the openi and dilate it upwards and downwards upon a director. Some blood running into $ windpipe caused violent expirations, and in one of them two fragments, which font the remainder of the canula, were expelled, surrounded with a clot of blood, and ^ relief was immediate. Another canula was introduced. The patient did well; and t broken corroded instrument is in St. Thomas’s Museum. Occasionally it happens that after a severe cut throat, the aperture remains, from so ■ cause or other, fistulous; and as the scar contracts, the passage for the air is so narro* , as to cause great difficulty of breathing, and require surgical aid. I had a case of «| kind some years ago, in a Hindoo woman, who, in her voyage to this country, f | attempted suicide, and nearly cut through the larynx, between the thyroid and cnc' j cartilages. She had been very refractory, and the skin had turned over the lower « i of the wound, and become connected willi the back of the organ, so as materia to diminish the passage, and cause her breathing to be very laborious, and with a *° : hiss. As from the account given, these symptoms were daily becoming worse, I j through the front of the cricoid cartilage vertically, and inserted a short but pretty * tube, through which she breathed freely and did well, leaving the house some time a to return home.—J. F. S.] 1759. If laryngotomy be undertaken for the removal of a foreign hot the crico-thyroid ligament is, after the bleeding has been stanched, to be c through its whole length, from the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage; ant this be insufficient to allow the foreign body to be removed or withdraw