30 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED mouth of the sac, even if we could accomplish that object. We must reject the ligature on account of the danger inseparable from its employment, and we have no sufficient reason for placing confidence in scarification of the sac or in its removal by dissection. In many instances these latter methods would be neither easy nor free from danger. Hence we account for the circumstance that all these various methods have become completely obsolete.” (p. 321.)] 1161. The treatment of strangulated rupture must be directed according to the different character and severity of the symptoms; in reference to which, suitable remedies must be employed with due circumspection and choice; too violent attempts, and especially too frequent changes, and again, new experiments which have in so great number been proposed and boasted of, are to be avoided. But too frequent is the course of strangulation hastened by improper treatment, and the patient s condition rendered worse. The more acute the inflammation, the more dangerous is. it. 1162. Inflammatory strangulation requires blood-letting, especially if the symptoms be severe, if the patient be strong, the rupture and the belly very painful. Small pulse, cold limbs, pale countenance, must not prevent blood-letting, as these are the peculiar symptoms of violent inflammation of the belly. The earlier bleeding is performed, and the more blood is taken at once, even till fainting is produced, the better is its effect. Leeches may also be applied about the i-egion of the rupture, and .because they usually here produce an erysipelatous inflammation of the skin, they maybe applied about the rectum, (Birago,) (a.) and cold fomentations, at the same time upon the hernial sac or cold sprinklings to the rupture. If the rupture be very tense and painful to the touch, it must be attempted by these means first to produce a favourable change, geneial and local relaxation, before the taxis is employed, which must be done in the most dexterous manner, according to the above-described rules. If the rupture be less painful, we may commence the treatment with the taxis, and if this be not successful, the above treatment must precede subsequent attempts with the taxis. All internal remedies, especially purging, are in this strangulation hurtful ; even calomel, which has been recommended by many, (Rust, Seiler, and others,) I have always noticed as having only an injurious effect. The patient must merely take mild drinks, for example, almond milk, gum water, and the like, in small quantities. Clysters in severe inflammation, merely soothing, with the addition of castor oil, and in diminished inflammation, of infusion of tobacco or tobacco juice, are extremely efficient. Tobacco clysters are not to be considered as irritants, but as narcotics, and the emDlovment of belladonna or hyoscgamus are similarly circumstanced, only the opera- tion of the tobacco is less daugerous; from it ensue a disposition to nausea, to fell down faintness, slow pulse, and diminution of the tension ot the rupture. 1 he effort of The tobacco juice and infusion is similar, but the tobacco-ju.ee clysters are very troublesome, the necessary preparations for which are not always at hand For the infusion, from half a drachm to a drachm of tobacco is used in from twelve to sixteen ounces of water, for two clysters. When injurious effects have been observed, the ^UrTolmccoClysters are very uncertain, and have been occasionally very dangerous remedies- as the strength of the infusion varies considerably according to the freshness anT goodness of he tobacco leaves, of which it is scarcely possible to judge. The use of tobacco clysters, which was formerly much urged by Asti.ey Cooper in cases of ctrinmilated rupture, is now much less practised than formerly; indeed I have not kn0Wn it used at St. Thomas’s either by my colleagues or myself for many years. («G Compemlio di Osscrvar.ioni clinichc aul van- caustiea applicate in ^e^ .nalattie di carattere taLwiodelleAliLmatc applicate alt'Ano nolle crn.e l.nfatico. Milano, 1821. Svo. inguinale et addominali incarcerate, e sulla potassa