839 THE SKIN OF THE FOREHEAD. from constitutional dyscrasic symptoms, or from improper irritating treat- ment, whilst there is increased turgor of the flap; then the gangrene usually appears from the third to the fifth day after preceding symptoms of increased turgor. It is well worthy of notice, that the surface of the nose has frequently a gangrenous appearance, and after throwing off a superficial slough, good granulations appear, and the flap remains perfect (Walther). The best sign is when the united edges of the wound are covered with a crust of dried lymph, from whence speedy union may be safely concluded. The removal of the stitches or of the pins should in general be effected on the third or fourth day, and the union is to be preserved by strips of court-plaster laid across. Other matters, as nervous symptoms, erysipelas and the like, must be treated according1 to the ordinary rules. 2542. When the nose has completely united at all points and the lower part of the wound on the forehead has scarred, if the flap have been ■ twisted round, a narrow bistoury must be passed under the fold of skin tformed by the twist of the flap, which should be cut through obliquely upwards so that a small flap is formed ; and this is to be applied to the raw made upper part of the stump of the nose, for which purpose a suture is • only sometimes proper, but the application of sticking plaster is generally nsufficient. If there still remain any pufRness of the frontal flap, it must ■ be got rid of. 1 If the bridge of skin have been formed by continuing the cut into the wound on the nose-stump, and the bridge heal in, a myrtleleaf-shaped piece must be cut out of it, and the edges united with insect-pins and the 'twisted suture. But if there be too much skin on the back of the nose it f roust be completely removed. ? 1 2543 For the purpose of perfecting the form of the nose after union s complete, various modes of after-operation may be requisite, which however, dare only be first undertaken when the skin has recovered ■■■ is natura! condition. A puffy scar, when not expected gradually to E“* an‘l disappear, should be cut out with two parallel cues, 'and 5 edges of the wound closed with the twisted suture. Deep scars must ii ittle 6 CUt °i?’ and the edgeS °f the wound be also somewhat loose, a ■ tUe more skin must be removed from the bottom than from the surface ?.'"d he2VOun,d br°oght together with the twisted suture. If the nose be I imi tn Ti and misshapen’an a]mond- or myrtle-shape piece should, accord- t ZZIT’ fb!,CUt °Ut’ and the edSe of the wound united aW^rii iTf thVP 0f th,e nose proJect t0° littIe> a flaP from the new , Sh0,dd be made> according to Dieffenbach, by two slightly curved •» f nowto‘c"S “ " a"f,c “"<1 diverging below towards the septet ' bus the spactTfo^Ihe6 ?tthei.woun^ be with a twisted suture" and n<; e com nr,L • \ r. e mhealmg of the flap be restricted, the flap must 4 > «bat the tip ofTe nose ‘sha'l'i ^ S°me retail,i"S aM)aratus. ■ the nose, is fastened -i mm ° *'S and t laws forwards, thereby shaping the tip * >e nose and give it the „mn,r r Presf‘'‘S instrument which can act on various parts of ■ inter, and only laid askle in Sll ' apparatus is ,to he worn the whole of the first i >e hot rays of the sun ! following summer, that the nose may be exposed to With the restoration of the whole nose must also be classed those