459 DROPSY OF THE MUCOUS SACS. 1 each other, by an opening in the tracks of two neighbouring ligaments, and containing besides a quantity of serous or synovial fluid, a larger or smaller number, even up to a 1 hundred, of oblong, smooth bodies, composed of numerous layers, from the size of an 31 oat, to that of a bean. The mucous sheaths of tendons are similar to mucous sacs, and the swellings deve- j0ped jn them, which contain a thin or more consistent fluid, (ganglia, Lat.; Ueberbeine . Germ.; ganglions, Fr.,) must, at least the greater number of them, be classed with v dropsy of the mucous sac3. [Partial enlargements of the sheaths of tendons by the collection of a fluid like ■ synovia within them, forming what are commonly called ganglions, sometimes occur in B very uncommon situations; I have in one or two instances seen a ganglion as big as a .pigeon's egg, and very hard, from its fulness, in the inner hamstring, just above the knee- joint. I have at present under my care, a young man, who after a little more than ordi- A nary exertion, had a swelling come almost suddenly just where the tendon of the m. sar- torius turns round the upper part of the shin-bone, and extending up into the ham, so as *v to have somewhat the appearance, at first sight, of a popliteal aneurysm, and nearly as I large as a goose egg, tense and free from pain. In the course of a fortnight it subsided ; -under the use of cold evaporating lotions.—J. F. S.] 1871. Among the dropsies of the mucous sacs, those are most frequent ri: which are seated on the knee-cap ; they are painless, without any altera- >- tion of colour in the skin, soft, elastic, compressible, of a spongy feel, A mostly oval, and always distinctly defined, or they are bean-shaped, puffy, Uphauging down from the knee, or more elevated in breadth. How- ever variously their extent may exceed that of the knee-cap, yet is ■ their base, however, always alone confined to it, and has no other attach- ment; and although the mass itself be movable in every direction, yet the » base can never be moved from this one spot. The fluid it contains is mserum, in which are frequently similar little bodies, to those found in the i mucous bags (1). Schreger (a) calls this swelling, which is usually 7 known by the name of Knee-fungus (Fungus genu, Lat.; Knieschwamm, r Germ.) or as dropsy of the mucous sac on the head of the shin-hone, an r. encysted dropsical sioellmg on the lmee-cap, (Hygroma cysticum patellare, : lat. ; Wasserbalgyeschiuulst ciuf der Kniescheihe, Germ.,) in which the ■i serous fluid is contained in a space naturally existing upon the upper sur- 0 face of the knee-cap, (bursa subcutanea patellaris,) but not in the mucous ^-bag on the head of the shin-bone (b), or in the fine plates of the cellular ai-fmbstance (c), or in a newly-formed sac like a true encysted swelling (d). This swelling upon the knee-cap is to be classed with that seated on the f olechranon, in the bursa anconea, appears mostly in old people, and in !• which the above-mentioned little bodies are observed in quantities. These 1 two swellings, especially that on the knee-cap are often accompanied at ! first with violent inflammation. The mucous sacs are capable of a degeneration in which an homogeneous, tough, moderately fabrous mass, connected with their walls, is formed, and gradually enlarges ell!len°r’T10U'S,S!Ze' 1 have Vot,iced swellings of this kind on the knee-cap and at the r/i" an(^ ^ave removed them successfully. All other treatment is useless. J 118 enlargement of the mucous bag upon the knee-cap is so very frequent among women servants, that it has acquired, and usually goes by the name of “ House- aoon th ''u0' t I1 !S also extremely common to observe the same kind of enlarged bag |i^^requent^ir^iu^e°—CJ.s!'] " ^ perSOn’S elbow havinS been subJect to * *ie, treat™?nt must be guided by the circumstances of the ^ weuing, and according to the causes with which it is related. Their Above cited p/Ti ' Sit’ V°'" ^ (?) Russell, .Tames, A Treatise on the Morbid (t) Cooper; SAMmi „„ 1L >■ • . Affections of the Knee Joint. Edin., 1802. Svo. }?• 74. London ISO? ' • sea of oints, (d) von Walther ; in his Journal for Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol iv. p. 390.