EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER; 958 ligament and tendons are divided. The head of the bone is now moved a little outwards, and the knife carried down close to the hind surface of the bone for the purpose of r completely dividing the tendinous and ligamentous connexions at this part. The assistant i now places the forefinger of both hands immediately upon the brachial plexus for the purpose of compressing the artery; and the edge of the knife being turned backwards, cuts opposite the lower angle of both flaps, through the whole bundle of axillary nerves before the two fingers of the assistant. _ . Langenbeck (a), after drawing down and pressing the arm against the chest, makes ■ with a small knife a cut into the deltoid muscle, so that the head of the bone may be conveniently dislocated, carries the knife behind it, and forms on the inner surface of the upper arm a sufficiently large flap, in doing which, the edge of the knife is carried: down close to the bone, the head of the bone grasped and drawn towards the operator, so that the axillary artery may not be cut off too high. Dupuytken’s (o) method cor- - responds with this. 2808. The exarticulation of the upper arm with the circular cut is- variously performed. Mouand made a circular cut in the skin, drew it back, and then cut through the muscles close to the head of the bone, exposed it and di\ idedI the ligaments. , , , ... Sharp proceeded in like manner, only he first laid bare the axillary artery by a longitudinal cut and tied it. ^ Nannoni and Bertrandi first made a transverse cut. three fingers breadth below the acromion, through the skin and deltoid muscle, and' drawing them back cut into the capsular ligament, dislocated the head of the bone, and after tying the axillary artery, cut through the armpit (1). Alanson made a circular cut a hand’s breadth below the acromion, through the skin, and with the edge of the knife directed obliquely upwards, through the muscles, and afterwards, for the more easy division of the joint, he made a straight cut through the upper part of the de toid muscle. Graefe (e) lays down the following rules for Ins funnel-shaped cut ( Trichterschnitt.) The arm being held nearly horizontally, the cut through the skin is made three fingers’ breadth below the acromion, and then the cut through the muscles with his leaf-knife, pressed obliquely upwards to the head of the bone. An assistant draws the muscular mass upwards with both hands, and then, the head being rolled forwards and upwards, the capsular ligament is opened, first, on the fore and upper, and afterwards, upon the upper and back part of the head with the leaf-knife, held oblique \ , the tendon of the m. biceps is cut through, the arm drawn by the operator towards himself, and the head being thereby dislocated, the under hinder part of the capsular ligament is divided. The vein is to be also tied, an the wound brought together in a vertical direction with one suture. (1) Counuau and Sanson’s method agrees precisely with this, makes the semicircular cut through the deltoid muscle, of foui hngert: brcadm, and the latter ouly a finger’s breadth below the acromion. ^ elpeau s (d) method jf ‘bltvvT'BELL’s (e) operation consists in one circular cut at the point of the deltoid B i« n,rnueli the skin, and a second through the muscles, and tying the artery; then muscle ti p from the acromion, and behind from the top of the shoulderf run1 down into the circular cut, after which the flaps thus formed are separated i from the bone and its head set free. 2809 In exarticulation of the upper-arm with the oval cut, Scoutet- ten (f) proceeds in the following manner:-! lie operator, haymgsa fied himself of the situation of the acromion, grasps, if operating on the (a) Htbliothek fur .lie Oururgie, W-iv. p.oOo lb) Lecons Orales, vol. m. p- (c) Above cited, p. 110, pKii. and nl. (d) Modecine Operatoire, vol. I. p- 39. (ej Above cited, vol. vi. p. 417. (/) Above cited, p. 15, pi. »• and it.