989 LOWER JAW. and the bone was sawed off immediately at the angle and centre of the chin. The wound was united in the usual manner, and the boy had a speedy and happy re- covery.” Mott’s first operation was in 1821 (a), in which, after having sawn through the chin, and after the maxilla inferior had been laid bare, just below its division into two processes, and it appeared sound,” he, “ with a fine saw, made for the purpose, smaller and more convex than Hey’s, began to saw through the bone obliquely downwards and backwards and finished with one less convex.” This was for osteosarcoma 1 It is claimed for Wardrop (b), that he first, in England, in March, 1827, amputated the lower jaw, in a case of exostosis; the jaw was cut through first behind the last molar tooth, and then between the middle two incisive teeth. The following are accounts of some of these operations :— Klein ; in Neue Chiron von Textor, vol. i. part ii. p. 345. Chei.lan ; in Medical Review, and Anal. Journal. Philadelphia, 1824. Delpech; in Revue Medicate, vol. iv. p. 5. 1824. Lallemand ; in Journal Universel des Sciences Medicales, vol. xxviii. p. 340. Dybeck; in Froriep’s Notizen, vol. viii. p. 95. Schuster ; in same, p. 304. behre, G., Bemerkungen liber die theilweise Excision und Exarticulation des Unterkiefers, nebst den zur Geschichte dieser Operation gehorigen Fallen • in Rust’* Magazin, vol. xxiii. part iii. p. 387. ’ Meyer, J. C., Dissert, de Exstirpatione partium degeneratarum Maxilla; Inferioris. ±>erol., 1824a 4to. Koecker, An Essay on the Diseases of the Jaws and their Treatment • with Observe tions on the Amputation of a part or the whole of the Inferior Maxilla. London 1828. 9 Delpech, Me'morial des Hopitaux du Midi et de la Clinique de' Montpellier. 1829 ■ p. 123. 5 Jaeger; in Rust’s Handbuch der Cliirurgie, vol. vi. p. 496. Boyer, Me'moire sur 1’Amputation de l’Os Maxillaire Inferieur; in Journal Comule'- ment. du Diet, des Sciences Medicales, cah. 174. 1 Dupuytren, Lemons Orales de la Clinique chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 625. 2845.^ Excision of the lower jaw, together with the removal of its con- dyle (Exurticulatio Maxilla; Inferioris) requires a different mode of making the cut, according to the different condition of the tumour and of the skin over it. The cut may be made from the corner of the mouth over the swelling, to the front of the ear, and the condyle of the jaw (Mott, Schindler) ; or to the hinder edge of the branch of the jaw a second cut from the beginning to the end of the first cut, circumscrib- ing the diseased skin, and thence in an oblique direction to the condyle von Graefe) ; or in very large swellings, and great disease’of the skin,' two elliptical cuts, of which the one passes in the direction of the base and branch of the jaw to the condyle, and the other upwards, by which the coronoid process is laid bare, the m. temporalis divided, and the joint opened at its fore part (Same) ; or in shape of an oblong, four-cornered flap, from the corner of the mouth to the neighbourhood of the external maxillary artery from thence at a distance of a quarter of an inch from ftJ; r °f. t.he ho!f t0 t.he anDle of the lower jaw, and then upwards to he front of the joint an inch distant from the ear (Jaeger). The flans are now separated from the bone, and in doing this, injury of the Stenonian (a) New York Medical and Physical Journal vol i. p. 386.—American Medical Recorder, Jan ’ 13_2. This case is given at length in Gibson’s Institutes and Practice of Surgery, vol ii n oo Philadelphia, 1827. y’ P’ ~S- (i>) Lancet, vol. xii. p. 27 1826-27.