NOSE-MAKING FROM 836 was bitten off by the other; five hours after, it was replaced by the Surgeon of th J prison, and in about ten days it was firmly united. • ' P I am not quite so sanguine as Balfour was, who thought such treatment might b advantageously employed in many wounds or rather slicings received in the held o battle • but still I should feel disposed to make the attempt again, under similar circum) stances as even if a portion only of the detached part adhered, there would be less oi the granulating process required, and therefore the cure would be more quickly effected! —J. F. S.] OF NOSE-MAKING FROM THE SKIN OF THE FOREHEAD. 2536. In the Indican method of Rhinoplasty, which premises, that th< skin of the forehead should be healthy, perfectly movable, sufhcien ] thick, and free from scars and eruptions; a model of wax or fine clay required, which should fit accurately, be handsome, and correspond to th* form of the person’s face. This is to be placed immediately on th. stump of the nose, and held there firmly, whilst with a fine J brush, dipped in some not very soluble varnish the base to which thd artificial nose is to be attached is carefully marked with a limL In thi way are mapped the longitudinal cuts on the sides of the nose, and t j transverse one for the septum. The longitudinal cut, foyefres* the edge, should be begun at the upper part of the stump of the nt* . close to where, after twisting round the flap of skin, the fixi n 1 side edge must begin; the two side cuts must not umte at top. A the dimensions of the model having been sketched on a piece of paper so that its entire surface be obtained, the shape is to be cut out o pape and placed upon the forehead, the septum above and the root of the . m below, between the eyebrows, but less low down, and varnish a line marked round it. If the forehead be low and the figu« would fall upon the hairy part of the head it must be placediobliqudy Where at bottom the side cuts are about five lines apart, 1 Y ' continued straight down to the root of the nose, to mark he bndga skin. The suture points are now to be marked, first aroi stump, two on the upper point of the side cuts, a line and ■^ half out wards two on the lower end of both side cuts, and opposite each other between these the spaces for the other suture points are eas.^J^red “ these have been marked upon the paper model, and from it tram the forehead. • n,-.ired vritl As in the directions above given by Gr^fe, themes ^ flap 0 coloured varnisli are easily obliterated during P; •, } the flap made b; skin should be cut out of sticking plaster, fixed on the forehead, ai V fl„, i ... . .. it.'. ...1 nn inch skin should be cut out of sticking piaster, nxeu ““. '“^‘^T^effenbach.) As the fla| cutting round it, but a quarter or third of an inch la g ( - ma(le t00 small; th< always shrinks considerably, care must be taken that it- Dr0Cess, its edges dm* septum especially must be broad, because, during the scarring process and it easily becomes too narrow. A model for comparison may ues too narrow. A model lor compai ^ the pttrpo» Zeis (a), from Graefe. which also l.ete *he ,runJ“tc’ ^recommendation, « of assisting the union of the wound in the forehead. - , ... ^ th*. wound oi .i . thi<nn 1 nnrr nnmt.Q. SO !1S tO of assisting the union of the wound in tne iorcneau. y ■ . o( t]je wound oi allow the flap to run into three long points, so as to render the umo sufficient foi the forehead more easy, ' does not answer the purpose, md «m> only ^^JVmed. « sundving the deficient tip of the nose. In some cases Dieffenbac »rhco- suppiymg tedii let fis. ■ suDDlying the deficient tip or me nose. . .. . more partico- i 1 Ann nf skin from the forehead, which method will be presently ar0. ^ ensue, (Graefe,) is superfluous. . . pd^es of1*14 '• 2537. The operation is to be now begun by paring ‘ o (a) Above cited, P- 267.