802 REMOVAL OF THE PENIS BY TYING. arteries of the urethra, and the bleeding having been thus stanched, the remainder of the penis must be cut through, I he dressing is to be made as already directed. If the bleeding from the spongy bodies cannot be stopped by sprinkling with cold water, the wound must be sprinkled with some styptic powder, covered with lint, and this fixed as already directed. Langenbf.ck (a) proposes to prevent the retraction of the penis in the following way: he cuts through the dorsum penis so deeply into the cavernous bodies, that he can see their white edge and the septum; a loop is then drawn through both, and the penis completely cut through. The ligature serves to keep the stump steady, and to draw it f01'lTprevent the retraction and drawing together of the urethra Babthelemy ») advises introducing an elastic catheter, which is to be bent down by an assistant be- neath the arch of the pubes, and then the penis and catheter to be cut throug . 2479 Of the accidents which may occur after the operation, after- bleedin- requires special attention. If it occur from a vessel which has not been tied during the operation, it must be taken up at once. It from the spongy bodies, it must be endeavoured to stanch it with cold water styptic powders, and pressure, or when this is inefficient, and the leng of the stump permits, pressure is to be made on the tube already intro- duced with a roller, or strips of sticking plaster; but if these means be fruitless, the actual cautery must be employed. Violent inflammation and spasmodic retention of urine must be treated according to the ordinary rules. • • Tile tube in the urethra must not be removed till the scarring is com- plete, otherwise the opening of that canal is narrowed ; and even then it is often necessary, as I have sometimes seen, to prevent the contraction by leaving a bougie in ; on the other hand, there are cases in which without any bougie, no narrowing of the urethra ensues. , After the most successful operation, even m aged persons, whos P creative powers have ceased, there is often no means of preventing low- ness of spirits and melancholy. , t ue 2480. In removing the penis by tying, a silver male catheter mustbe passed through the urethra into the bladder, a waxed silken 'reada,p beyond the diseased, and upon the healthy part of the perns andintto duced into a loop-tier or some particular instrument for tying a This instrument must be screwed so tight that the part befo e g ith shall be deprived of all feeling; the instrument is fp be fetened^ sticking plaster, and the cancerous part covered wjth hnt ai d P On the second or third day, usually the largest F »“ f ‘ may be removed with scissors or bistoury, without j^eedi g I novv on the fourth or fifth day the ligature separates. The tathete> ^ be removed ; a small silver or gold tube introduced into the suppurating part dressed simply till it scar (c). , , m0s( 2481. Amputation of the penis with the ligature is pretc which practitioners to that by the knife. The inconveniences, bowev^ ^ usually arise from the former, as great and continued pain, ‘ f he convulsions and the like may be produced and tbe noatous sloughing mass upon the whole system, by which Gua . ^ ^ iv. (a) Ncue Bibliothek Fir die Chtrurgie und Gbaffk und von W ai.tiifR gsaW' UfehA«i;ll Gln^ie^dfMedecine, vol. xxtv. P (cTbisnib, above cited.—Spfieh, E., Dissert, de Castratione. Herd, 1820.-MjcbAelis, Ueber dta ExsMrpaUon des Penis dutch Llgatur; m von VON ,.„kGbafff »npf‘ p. 331.—Bi.ofmfb, Ueber ‘'',c ,„rhjndiinsstocke'11 gebenen und verbosserten l n cr1” Nene Krf.l^ in same, vol. v. p. 3o(i. - M des IVmb ungen iilter Gk^kfx s Ampu in same, vol. xiii. P* -