TREATMENT. 179 Varus sometimes occurs as consequence of palsy of the muscles of the leg during i;ething. I operated, in 1839, on a case of this kind in a girl, between eleven and twelve ears old, in which the foot first dangled from the ankle; but, as she grew up, and began > walk, inversion commenced, and, when I first saw her, whilst standing upright, the >ot rested on the whole dorsum pedis, except the great metatarsal bone, which faced btwards; the tuberosity of the heel-bone was raised about an inch from the ground, and s imder surface faced inwards; before this bone nearly the whole sole faced directly pwards. When lifted from the ground, the foot nearly recovered the natural position; it there was still a little disposition to inversion, and the -weight of the front of the foot tinted the toes. When the knee was straight, the foot could not be flexed at all on lie leg; but, when the knee was much bent, the sole could be almost entirely applied to e ground. The gastrocnemial muscles were little developed, and the muscles generally d not control the foot. The Achilles’ tendon was divided, and extension made; 'ter five weeks, a steel rod. jointed at the angle and knee, and attached to a boot,' as put on, soon after which she got up, and, in rather more than seven weeks, began walk with the sole flat on the ground, with the assistance of a stick, which, in°he flowing week, she threw aside of her own accord, and walked slowly without assist- ed She would probably have improved more quickly, but that a slough formed on the in of the tuberosity of the heel, in consequence of the foot-piece of the first-applied paratus having pressed unduly. At the end of six months she walked very well, and e treatment had perfectly succeeded. Shortly after, I had another case of the same kind in both feet of a child, three years 1, in which the same proceeding was adopted with success, as the child walked upon i soles tolerably at the end of six months, whilst wearing boots with jointed steel leg- ls. But lie could not do without these, as the paralytic muscles had not recovered hough galvanism had been employed.—J. F. S.] 1373. As to the prognosis of this ailment, all depends on its degree d complication. If there be simply disproportion between the muscles, the twisted bones have neither their form changed, nor are fixed in their natural position by anchylosis, a favourable issue may be hoped for ; r tbe mo.re ^ patient be young, far distant from manhood, have no f mpanymg dyscrasic disease, and the nutrition of the curved foot have suffered much. The time in which the cure of this ailment may inr is not determinable, and depends upon the mode of its treatment J addition to its degree and duration. In adults who have walked W | their crooked feet, in which the bones are anchylosed, or considerably | }"|ed in form, their complete cure is impossible. n 2 V,' xne lreatment 01 club-toot consists in the restoration of tl ural antagonism of the muscles, and of the straight direction of tl K’” 1S, effected either by lengthening the shortened muscles b i j extension and mechanical contrivance, or by cuttin I JJf'Vom f °ns,°f the; shortened muscles, and subsequently slighter t- the foot by mechanical means. The first (mechanical) mode of treai • ation df^l wT and d,lffi?ult’ especially in a greater degree and longe iSed in , r ’ T 1 ,Caf fre(luent]ly it is of no service. It i 5ch trnnhip b fr °f club-foot> when the foot can, withou I datS L^,n^'W0Ug^LStr!-g^’ and a Constant careful oversight o pat ent is possible The division of the tendons is in all cases th i>;re th^edter^ ^ m°]de]of treatment has been without benefit, o i«ectation of i 1 gT £ > duratlon °f the curvature has led to tin ininatirlhe5“^ eXter"a' a speed. IvWed1the ^-ed muscles ■ ,aU?ng ‘he PCr,0(,S 0f rV'“'V Acting, of studying the foot, an, | order to bring the foot gradually into the straight direction, it is