970 OF EXCISION (c) Above cited, p. 141. (c) Above cited. These statements are founded on the cases hitherto published. Of Jaeger’s collec v tion of fifty-three cases of excision at the shoulder-joint but two had an unfavourabl ifj result; of thirty-four at the elbow only four; and in three at the wrist all were sue: - cessful. In regard to excision at the wrist it is remarkable that Syme (a), otherwise s»m warm an advocate for the operation, gives a most unfavourable opinion, that it is very; difficult to perform, that relapses easily recur, and that it leaves a stiff and unusable, limb. He, however, admits that these objections are supported only by theory, and tba experience might, perhaps, show them to be of less importance. Of thirteen excision , of the knee-joint, upon careful observation six were perfectly successful, three imper- fectly so, in reference to the capability of using the limb, and three were fatal; a pro ' portion decidedly less favourable than in amputation, but not so bad that excision of tht knee-joint should be unconditionally rejected. Upon this point Syme (6) observes- that excision must always be considered more dangerous than amputation when tht patient is very weak or has been wasted by previous disease; but if he possess mode : rate powers, it is not to be supposed either from general circumstances or from thr results of experience that excision is attended with greater danger than the removal o the limb. It must, however, be mentioned that a larger number of cases would give w a more decided opportunity of comparing excision of the knee-joint with amputation In five cases of excision at the ankle-joint the result was successful, and in twenty-fom cases where it was performed for compound dislocation but one patient died. Syme (c) i however, says, that although excision of the ankle-joint has not the objections to it tha that of the wrist has, it cannot be extolled as of any great use. It affords, indeed, a sup: port for the body, and it may be questionable in how far the foot, after the excision, i: better than an artificial apparatus. Moreau’s experience also shows that anchi/losu- generally occurs after the operation; and although, as he observes, the other joint!: of the foot become more movable, so as in some measure to make amends for this stiffness, there can still be no doubt that the foot loses much of its elasticity (d). I [Upon the excision of joints Crampton (e) observes:—“ It is impossible not to b< struck by the fact, that the constitutional disturbance succeeding to the excision of evei so large an articulation as the knee-joint, bore no comparison in kind or in degree, witM that which experience has proved to be the invariable attendant upon simple pene- trating wounds of a joint, when union is not effected by the first intention. This differenct in the symptoms may, I think, be referred to that well-known principle of the animat economy, which disposes the system generally to suffer in proportion as the injured^ part is possessed of a higher or lower degree of sensibility, and as the injury is more 01 less difficult of cure by the proper forces of the constitution. Now, although it be true that when in an healthy state the parts which enter into the composition of a joint are possessed of but a low degree of sensibility, still it is well known that when suffering under disease there are no parts in which inflammation is attended with more exquiate pain or in which the actions which tend to recovery are more slowly or imperfects performed. It is not surprising, therefore, that a penetrating wound of a large artrt dilation should be succeeded by a train of the most painful and dangerous symptoms. By the total excision of the joint, however, all those parts, which when diseased; in- fluence the constitution so unfavourably are removed from the system, and the injur? is resolved into a case of clean incised wound, with a divided but not fractured » 1 diseased bone at the bottom of it.” (pp. 207, 208.)] 2825. All the cases in which excision of the ends of bones is to be pre- ferred to amputation of the limb, may be thus considered :— I a Caries and necrosis of the joint-ends of tubular bones, which does* not spread further. ,, Crushing of one or several joint-ends, without further considers j splintering of the bone towards its body, without injury of the principal artery and nerves, and without great destruction of the soft parts. y When, under like circumstances, a musket-ball remains sticking 1 1 the spongy structure of a joint-end, and cannot be withdrawn. 7|l g When, in compound dislocation, a joint-end protrudes from the Tl parts, and cannot be replaced. (>f) Jaeokr, WurdiRnng <tcr liesecti 'nen ; in Rust's Ilandboch der Chirurgic, above cited. (a) Above cited, p. 119. (/p Above cited, p. 131.