357 TREATMENT. V close inquiry into the course of the disease, a careful examination, . ,nd the following circumstances decide the point. In stricture, the dis- j :harge after connexion occurs quickly, and recurs usually after a week ; clap rarely appears before the third day, increases, and the pain on \ caking water and inflammation become more severe. Stoppage of the •rethra by stones is distinguished by the previous symptoms of stone, by he sudden stop to the flow of urine, and the striking of the sound against he stone. Swelling of the prostate is felt by the finger through the ecturn, the catheter can be readily introduced as far as the prostate, but t then frequently excites severe pain, and most commonly only an elastic atheter can be introduced. 1679. The prognosis in stricture of the urethra varies according to the eat and condition of the disease. The nearer to the orifice of the urethra, < he more recent and extensible, the shorter and narrower the stricture is, )i o much the more easily can it be got rid of. When, however, the ;; ymptoms mentioned (par. 1675) have set in, the prognosis is more j oubtful, except that the patient’s condition may be rendered tolerable; l z cannot, however, be decided whether after the removal of the stricture, hese symptoms will diminish or cease. The treatment is in many cases . edious, and relapses are very frequent. If urinary fistula have already .i ormed, what has been already mentioned (par. 948) must be borne in find. 1680. In the cure of stricture, two circumstances must be distinguished, amelv, whether the voidance of the urine be completely stopped, or [» Aether the patient suffer under the common symptoms of stricture; the atter only will here be considered, but the former in treating of retention Of >f urine. R* ) t ! 1681. The object in the treatment of stricture, is to get rid of the bstacle which opposes the passage of the urine, and which is to be effected ither by gradual widening of the canal of the urethra, by the introduc- tion of foreign bodies, as tapers, bougies, or catheters; or destruction of he stricture with caustic, with conical catheters or special instruments, f the stricture be in causal relation with syphilis or any other dyscrasy, hey must be counteracted. General treatment, however, has not in itself ny effect on stricture. 1682. The first object of the treatment by widening or with bougies, * to determine the seat of the stricture. For this purpose, an elastic wax •ougie corresponding in thickness with the orifice of the urethra, and meared with oil is to be introduced into the aperture of the urethra, the '?lls being held with the finger and thumb of the left hand behind the j1.®' but without pressing the urethra. The penis is then drawn up, ‘list the bougie, held like a writing pen, and gently rolled from side to ■ e, is passed in so as not to get entangled in the mucous membrane. ’ .®n . ® bougie has reached the seat of stricture, a mark is to be made ' WrYhe c*ose to the mouth of the urethra, and thus the dis- e ot the stricture from it is shown. ays which is used for the purpose of examining the urethra should,” le jt a ,,’V 0 a mil size, that is, large enough to fill the urethra without stretch- aus lead vnll i °,U^1C deceive in two ways : it may pass through a stricture, and aveits noin* 1°, .t there is no stricture when there really is one, or it may tune accidental1' , lr? the orifice of one of the mucous follicles of the urethra; or in osing that th . lrr?£u‘anty of the canal, and lead you into the opposite mistake of sup- ere is a stricture where none exists. If you use a bougie of the size of