LITHECTASY. 644 for want of room; attempts were made to enlarge the passage sufficiently with bougi for its admission, but it could be only imperfectly got in, and was left without distendii it till three days after, when the injection escaped, the bladder-part of the instrume having rotted. Another instrument was then passed with difficulty, but the path- could not bear the distension, and during the following weeks suffered much coustit tional excitement. Not till the eighth day after introducing the second instrume could any progress be made with the distension, but then it went on rapidly, and ( the eleventh, “ the urethra having been dilated to as great an extent as the instrume would allow, an effort was made to extract the stone. It was seized with the lithotou forceps, but it was discovered to be too large to remove entire without using more vi lence than was thought prudent or safe.” (p. 79.) The stone was, therefore, broken i with Fergdsson’s lithotrite, and brought away piece meal; it weighed a little short two ounces troy.” (p. 78.) The patient did well. Wright inquires, “ Would it not I better to make the incision in front of or anterior to the bulb, where the canal is so supe ficial that it could be opened by a mere scratch ? It certainly requires no formidab:. incision to reach the membranous portion : still it must be of some depth, and it occu1 to me as just possible that on introducing the dilator, its extremity might be carnt past the opening in the urethra into the surrounding cellular tissue. I imagine the bu bous portion would be dilated as easily as the membranous part of the urethra, (p. 79 In June 1843, Fergusson (a) performed the third lithectasy in a man of sixty-fou who had suffered very severely, and for five years had been continually passing stone as large as peas. The urethra was opened by “ an incision along the raphe about oi inch and a half in length, terminating about half an inch in front of the anus, froi which point two incisions, each about three-fourths of an inch in length, were c&rna downwards and outwards. The superficial cellular tissue being divided to a simik extent, the point of a knife (a common lithotomy bistoury) was thrust into the groov of the staff a little in front of the triangular ligament. The edge of the blade was s- applied as to divide the triangular ligament to a slight extent, first downwards ami ou wards on one side, and then in a similar way on the other; the groove of the stoa being then distinctly felt by the forefinger of the left hand, the metal pomt of a Arnott’s dilator was placed within it, and slid cautiously into the bladder I he sta- was next withdrawn, and the bag of the dilator was partially distended with a solut e of gum arabic, the distension having been continued until the patient complain^ < pain.” Additional quantities of fluid were repeatedly thrown in or the first twohoura again, at the third, and at the end of the fourth, the instrument beingfullydstendtt was withdrawn, and another larger one having a passage through it for the escaF the urine, was introduced. At the ninth hour, a larger instrument was pasatfgw directed to be distended as the patient could bear it. At the twentieth hour, this dilato Si . quarter i» diameter, hariug been full, distended, »'«s removed J stone attempted to be removed with the scoop several times unsuccessfully, as 't W away only fragments. Forceps were also used, but the stone was too large to passim was dierefore broken by forcibly closing the blades; the pieces were middy renioi« Constitutional excitement, however, came on, and he died on t e ev ni g . iH, day. On examination, the principal ^ (toned, an day. On examination, the principal circumstance f , the bladder and rectum, and that lying on the outer surface of the gut was . slightly infiltrated with a sero-purulent fluid.” (p. 576.) It would seem from FeRGBS80-_ i dt i ii....,thn riictGiicimi liiul hppn made too oiiicklv « XOF D® Sligntiy inmiraieu wiiua&eiu-puiuicuiuum. vr-wv --— . . » * observations, that he thought the distension had been made too quickly; forhes*} “ Unless the dilating process were effected in a much slower manner tha * . mended for lithectasy, he feared that the mucous membrane and urethra vouW » ■ be dilated, but actually torn.” (p. 577.) And further that “ it was one of the n amob^ in lithectasy to avoid any wound of the neck of the bladder ; but he doubted be avoided, and a certain amount of inflammation might, therefore, becalculatca \ - * * * On any future occasion, he should suggest that a longer period s i< (-0 pended in using the dilator, and also that in the event of the stone proving tool a ns ready removal, the lithotrite should at once be used. * * * It was his opm ready removal, me mnoirue snuuiu at uuw ^ q stone o in such an operation there would always be greater difficulty in extracting • dc, any considerable size than in lithotomy, for in the latter .ease the wound ^ down alongside of the anus, and the forceps holding the stone could he . ® r \ tlm nviiimm»W>C \rprp roilductea 1 down alongside ot tne anus, anu me iorceps nuiumg ...u »iUU« y., uear th depressed, whilst in the former, (lithectasy ) the manoeuvres were conduct^ ^ ,h angle of the pubes, and consequently in the narrowest part of the space Jetw .g bones, a space which the experienced luliotomist was always careful to avoid- IP (n) London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxiv. p. 1843^4.