COMPRESSION OF ARTERIES WITH THE TOURNIQUET. 889 divided vessels; and fifth, the proper treatment of the wound formed by the amputation. 2681. Precaution against bleeding consists in the compression of the principal artery of the limb to be amputated, either by the application of the tourniquet, {par. 283,) or by the fingers of an assistant, or with a proper compressor. _ The application of the tourniquet is accompanied with many inconve- niences, as if it be placed in the neighbourhood of the part where the amputation is to be performed the muscles will not retract properly; it is often inconvenient to the operator, and prevents the return of the blood through the veins. For these reasons compression of the principal artery by a capable assistant, at least in amputation of the upper limbs and thigh, is preferable to the tourniquet. In amputation of the leg the tourni- quet is used, because here tying the ligatures is often difficult, and the assistant compressing the vessel becomes exhausted. Compression must always be made at a spot where the artery is superficial, and the neigh- bouring bone affords a point of support {par. 284.) In patients who are weak and have little blood, Brunninghausen recommends that nhrp6 f O1°per?t-On th,e hmb should he swathed in a flannel bandage nearly up to the place of the cut, m order to dimmish the loss of blood 8 y p ne [The only real advantage derived from the use of a tourniquet at an amputation ex- °f COm!WUn! frac,ure or wounds, where it had been previously applied to check bJeedmg, is, that the operator has no dread of a gush of arterial blood when he *he ialge vessels> lf he have any doubt of the capability and firmness of trust wo rfhv" +h W10m C0nipressl0n of the principal artery is intrusted. But if he be r compression is more certainly made with the fingers than with the 0f w^?h> howeve.r wel1 adjusted, will often slip from the vessel if scarppf i 1 st/.uggl,e’ and become (luite useless. One would think compression could fe* be obJected to, in amputations of the smaller parts of the limbs, when it is in- nably and necessarily employed in amputations high up through the thigh and .inner the hlp a“d aad “ difficulty is^fouSd in bv^he jUStIy °!,jeCted t0 ,tbe tourniquet, that it prevents the return of the blood arteries u" ’ circumstance too little remembered in amputation. Bleeding from the artenes is, in general, caut.ously guarded against; but bleeding from the veins is tbn .aPr a. the" Sd' t0 nut'Thi?Mte<ri St.atG °f tpe "’hole Part>ln consequence of which directly the knife begins BISS ^ "hiCh »P •hecurrerSmlSl.tj'iC^ Wood an vuhere are occasions andX notnVZm F .^!th many others in denying, yet fcmonally fatal to the patient A healtbv^Pu 18 Posltlvelydangerous and occa- «i-earing'or compound fracture* of , 1?^ who’ ™und of’. or from severe )' 'as been so completely pulled down bv it fl.- c°nslderable quantity of blood, and , ' ants and wait for hours till his cireukti^F 141S often necessary to administer stimu- he bleeding have gone off such .rt ° recovered, and the immediate effect of nust take eveTy pfecaution and Z?""0' bT t0.lose an? blood, a»d the operator •fating, for the purpose of^^r.Ll ? be,even the principal artery before ampu- P c the very verge of hectic the refififofT T ° rl0od- Neither can a Patient who is I f a severe injury, bear any loss ofblood H.7 dlsease or excited during the progress I renous blood suddenly escaping mavheflT6 "" fmputa‘I.0“ 5three or four ounces of fieHe reasons bleeding from th^veins i^notlo bn thougf t JighUy nnd^hercfbre com-