283 TELEANGIECTASY. Jeedle through the swelling a quarter of an inch from its edge, and a i might needle with a double thread at a right angle with this needle and J eneath it; the double ligature is then separated, and each tied under the m rst needle. [ I prefer Brodie’s method with the two needles, as thereby the whole base of the /elling is more completely included within the thread. If the swelling be large, it ill not be possible, at once, to compress it with the ligature, so as to stop the circulation id cause sloughing. In such case it is better to take hold of the middle of the tumour, ,d having lifted up and squeezed it, so as to empty out the blood, to pass a needle, med with double thread, through its base. The threads are then to be carefully ;lparated, and each pair of ends being carried round the half bases of the tumour, are id firmly on opposite sides, and then attached to Graefe’s little screw tourniquet, most excellent instrument for the purpose, with which, as the threads, ulcerating e skin, become loose, they are to be every day or two tightened, till the strangulation id mortification of the swelling is effected. In this way I operated, six years ago, on child, twelve months old, who had teleangiectasies on the temple and ear. She was rn with one, about the size of a sixpence, and bright-coloured, on the temple, just above e auricle, which soon became sore, and occasionally exuding a few drops of blood. In e course of nine months, it acquired the size of lialf-a-crown. When the child was ut six months old, two other little ones, about as large as a pin’s head, were noticed the ear, one on the back of the helix, and the other on that of the concha. All continued wing, but were flat and distinct from each other for the next three months, when ey began to rise above the skin, having previously been flat, and soon ran into one other, forming one mass. The principal and most elevated portion was on the head, mediately above the auricle, extending back on the occipital bone, as large as a crown ece, and gradually rising towards the centre, which was half an inch above the sur- _ce of the skin. From the lower part it continued on the auricle, covering the top of 8e concha, spreading over the upper part of the helix, and turning round upon the front the ear, as low as the tragus. The pulsation in the temporal portion was very distinct; s :e vessels could be easily emptied by pressure,but immediatly on its removal the tumour >• sumed its usual size, and swelled out when the child cried. Its colour was bright scarlet, s’ id it had the feel of a mass of small vessels, or rather that of a sponge. The temporal por- j an was operated on, as I have advised; but although the ligatures were tightly drawn, k rangulation could not be effected; the bright colour remained, and the tumour swelled i hen the child cried; Graefe’s screw was attached, and the threads drawn as tight as ■ sssible, but without change. On the third day, serum freely oozed from the surface • id on the day following the ligatures were hidden, but with scarcely any appearance of iving cut into the base, and the bright colour remained. The screws were tightened, J it no change followed. On the seventh day, the ligatures had begun to cut through' * 1(1 there was a free discharge from the track, but the granulations of the skin were inos- - dating with the under surface of the tumour, which seemed hardly at all separated. On i- ie eleventh day, the screws were again tightened, but without producing any change in 5 le appearance of the swelling. On the following day the hinder ligature came away at no part of the tumour separated with it; a piece of lint was gently insinuated eneath it. On the thirteenth day, the whole swelling appeared about to fall off; it was little shrunk, but the bright-red colour still remained. On the sixteenth day, it came off faving a granulating surface which slowly healed and contracted. The child was at ais time taken into the country, with the promise of bringing her back again, to have fe remaining part on the auricle, which thrust it away from the head, and turned it own at right angle, operated on ; but I regret that she never returned. So far, how- ver, as it went, the operation was completely successful.—J. F. S.] I 1517. The destruction of teleancjiectasy by caustic is, in all cases, to be onsulered as the most proper, where the swelling is broad and super- cial especially in children, as here extirpation with the knife is accom- amed with difficulty, and speedy danger of imminent bleeding; and an k 0n af.co,unt °( the seat of the disease and the delicacy of the child, austin ^ , Lt| e rel\ec\ on as the hgature. The most proper caustic is n arlnu ^k *PPhed.as a paste in an aperture of sticking plaster, put or th! !, tHe tel®angiectasy, or smeared over the part to be destroyed, purpose of making a slough of sufficient thickness and size, and