23 RADICAL, OF REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. concur also; but their action appears more weak, and less demonstrable. * * * In this case the peritoneum presents at the top of the ring irregular, prominent folds, analogous to those of the mucous membrane of the stomach during the contraction of its muscular coat ” (pp. 78, 9.) Third, by the displacement of the peritoneum from the abdominal wall from various causes, as in two cases of direct inguinal rupture, in which in con- sequence of retention of urine, the peritoneum covering the bladder was raised nearly to the navel—by enlargement of the womb by pregnancy, or any other cause—by adhesion of the omentum, or intestine to the hernial sac—by a large quantity of fat collecting between the peritoneum and wall of the belly—or by the dragging of another sac which has formed in the neighbourhood of the former. Fourth, by the contraction of the cremaster muscle; “ the two fleshy bundles of which act upon the sac pretty much as the two bellies of the digastric muscle effect the direct elevation of that bone.” (p. 83.)] 1153. The radical cure of reducible ruptures (especially inguinal ruptures) was attempted in ancient times in very different and in part cruel and barbarous ways, which had only their corresponding excuse in the ignorance of, or in the bad construction of trusses. Even later modes of treatment have found little favour, on account of the danger there- with connected, and because of the more perfect construction of trusses • and only of late have these objects again attracted more attention, and less dangeious methods of treatment have been proposed. All the modes of treatment in reference to the radical cure have for their object the organic C°sl?S 116 ne°k ,tlie hernial sac) or of the abdominal ring, or to effect both at once, which has been attempted by a sufficient decree of adhesive or suppurative inflammation, and thereby causing adhesion; or b\ a plug of skin healed into the abdominal ring. These may be collected together under the following heads: first, Increased pressure whilst lying constantly on the back, with, or without the simultaneous application of irritating and[contracting remedies; second, Caustics and the actual T1? e7 ’/“^Ligature of the sac, with or without cutting it off; fourth Introduction of foreign bodies into the hernial sac; fifth, Healing-in of rtdomfaafrtot 5ki"’ °r °f * P°rti°” °f “folded skin’ “‘o the H54. Increased pressure, whilst the patient lies constantly on his back heretofore employed by Fabr. Hildanus, Blegny, Winslow and others has of late been recommended by means of a common pad, (Richter and others,) with a conical linen pad, the point of which is inserted into the £n iSr3 Ziife Sfe t pad °f WAL powS ean°beSZl Tj "-itli a i!lTfi!f«|aPafat“.ll‘0Ute'Je'1 with aIum wash (Katin) (i)- or W C0"lraCt'”S herbS’ and suhcarbonate of inm.onia haveb"n mentioned which hare been |»rk, rhatany, alum,'taqtuine, xiterM S?’1”rkljtormendUa, gall nuts, oak 2£MSJ5si2k“d 10 “• <*» fe Alex- tr^chonUpni2r.ng V°" de" Leisten Und Schtnke>- (6) Essai sur ia Theorie tics Hemies et de 1^2. nmglement> et de >eur cure radicalo. l'aris, (c) Notice sur les Hemies et une nouvelle maniere de les guerir radicalement. Paris, 1827 Ilirn • , aTes nouvellcs sur la cure radicale des Edition ^^Sl?Perati0n Sttn8lante- Second