FOliM AND SITUATION. 547 with the aid of the scoop, about a teacupful of fragments -was removed ; but the greater part of the stone remaining bard and impenetrable, and Sir Walter being much ex- hausted, the operation was given up: he died on the tenth day. The stone appeared moulded by the bladder; the lower part confined by the bony pelvis, with its im- pression, and was smaller than the upper part, which had projected so as to lie on the pubes (a). Of stones which have been removed, Astley Cooper mentions one in Trinity College, Cambridge, which weighs thirty-two ounces and seven drams; a cast in St. Thomas’s Museum of one which weighed twenty-five ounces ; another of sixteen ounces which he himself removed, but without success; one removed piecemeal, by Mayo (b), of Winchester, weighing fourteen ounces and two drams, and measuring eight inches and a half in its smallest, and ten in its largest diameter; one in the Museum of the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, of eight ounces. The largest stone removed successfully by Astley Cooper, weighed near six ounces. Smith (c) mentions a cast in the Bristol Museum, of a stone which weighed ten ounces and a half, and measured nearly ten inches in circumference: the patient recovered in eleven weeks. In the Museum of the College there is a stone, A c 7, composed of three large uric acid stones, cemented together with mixed phosphates, which weighs seventeen ounces: it was removed by Cheselden, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, from a man fifty years of age, but he died the next day after the operation. As to the small size of stones, perhaps that often grains from a lad of thirteen years, and that of a few grains from a boy of sixteen, removed by Martineau <~d), mav be ;considered among the smallest. ' J (3) « The greatest number of stones I ever extracted in the operation of lithotomy ” says Astley Cooper, “ was one hundred and forty two, many of them about the size of nnj-bles. A great number of stones does not add much to the patient’s danger in the operatmn ; for it is not the frequent introduction of the forceps, but the violence which is used in extracting the stone or stones which produces mischief; thus the removal of one large stone, is more to be dreaded than that of many small.” (p. 233. j mOTybvT>en^Tw0f the C“Uenge ofiSurgeons, there is a fusible stone which was re- moved by Pott (e), from a vesical rupture m a boy of thirteen. “ When six years old hour andenZLdl7lth/n pain .ab°Ut the reSio“ of tl)e P^es, which lasted near an he conTd ^S ’ fn<i SUddrly CeasiDg he became the time his pain lasted he risid freelv' f °? T"’ th°ugb he endeavoured so to do, but as it ceased a nea In fn In ? feW dayS after a £ma11 tllmour was discovered, about the size of pea in the spermatic process just below the groin; it gave the child no pain and Wh“ it becameZS ; ,hough be .had Ilever any parn in his back and loins, and it was there- memdb^mitDhed ‘°“t Vlt ™ ^ by a cut the skin and cellular membranous kL !, length of the process and scrotum, which exposed a firm white ent f am°aUi dbagT 7$ ’ DaF°mng upwards, and being followed was found “ depend- Sfcw or wbliaaouSW,th a membranous duct, about the breadth of the largest ildomen throimh ““ t lke t0i a„hu“an ureter, which passed out from the ■he tumorfif h °peul"g the “Vfle- 0l1 dividing this duct, immediately above irc-senn l ’ f ounces of a clear fluid issued, and the mouth of the cyst expanding S uh7, f0Tl i”,he Uadd“- T» ^ c„n6 vhen a lajge stream of 7wl after so™e time directed to make water, ecovered g t f 'e flowed through the wound instead of by the urethra He ttovered. In the preparation the stone is enveloped in the cyst. 7 ittle^inreL'SlffreiftfT1E °f V an elderly pel's°n. who for the most part suffered isual symptoms of sW ‘be1d,sease> but eveiT now and then was suddenly' seized with hat it(!oesPun? n. . ♦ l d Tery severe ones too> seems to be of this kind except eeing is v“ Mr, " !avf, bad an>' neck, which as far as I have had opportunity of ied of pleuriL ^OnJir - T T f,Uryears ,after the detection of the disease, and n a cyst nearethe fvudusof t body>*°™d’’ says Brodie, “ the stone embedded mtrusion oftlu. Tn °t the bladder. The cyst was formed in this case, not by the «>h tunicle8 ofth“bladd^S^ZeKJ?fWeeD tbe. ”lar fibres, but by a dilatation of ade as would b^uoSed aw 38^l1 as jbe n,ucous- It was such a rccep- 'ight gradually hav-fm-idc lad long been resident in the bladder, y*t as to prevent it oceasimiv * St°,ne was 11 ot so closely embraced by the prevent ,t occasionally slipping out of it, and I suspect that this actually hap (c) Chlrurgicnl W rnns., vol. xi. p. 407. orks, vol. Hi. p. 324. 2 N 2