TREATMENT. 169 does not usually affect the general state of health, and vve see that the mechanical means are best endured. If the constitution be at the same time affected, corresponding remedies and suitable dietetic care must be employed. (1) The prejudices which have been very properly made to the stays (a), has no reference to this determination of their employment. 1364. For the quicker cure of curvatures of the spine, depending on muscular contraction, Guerin (b) has proposed the division of the con- tracted and shortened muscles, and practised it in several cases. The muscles which he cut through were m. cucullaris, rhomboideus, levator anguli scapulce, sacrolumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and semi spinales. He has performed the division in persons of both sexes, and of different ages : the youngest was thirteen, and the oldest twenty-two years of age. All the curvatures were in the second and third degrees, with distortion of the spine and corresponding humps. In some a single division of the shortened muscle was sufficient; in others a second and third was under- taken. In all he obtained, immediately after the operation, a very striking degree of straightening of the spinal column ; and in a man of twenty-one years of age, whose curvature had been subjected to a ten months’ mecha- nical treatment, he effected an immediate straightening by cutting through the m. longissimus dorsi, and the corresponding m. semi-spinales, i In other subjects he carried on the treatment by mechanical means with decidedly good effect. Although the subcutaneous division of the muscles of the back has been undertaken by other persons, I cannot, from the practice in question, give so decided judgment of its fitness, as ;he numerous and careful observations upon tenotomy in other curvatures nave allowed. [In regard to the division of the muscles for the cure of curvature of the spine Robert Hunter of Glasgow (c) says“ In no instance has the operation of itself produced a :ure; but in all the cases on which I have operated, with one exception, it manifestly Maced the patient in a more favourable state for the performance of a cure. The opera- non itself appears to me to effect no more than to take ofF, either in part or whole, the power of muscles that are interested in maintaining the curvature, and thus placing the fpme in a condition to be more easily influenced by mechanical and physiological causes. 1 ne cases which have been treated by me have all been of long standing, none less than ! seven years, and some ten, sixteen, and twenty years, and all with considerable torsion md gibbosity, as well as lateral curvature. * * * In some instances the section of the nuscles was instantaneously followed by an obvious improvement in the state and ippearance of the back ; in other instances I could discover no change whatever. S pefr , ’ ’ says R. Hunter, “ the subcutaneous section of the dorsal muscles atfour K? P w%0f ^ fck;, I weaken the tension of the deepest-seated layer of I 7Tr formed ,Jy th® multijidus spines, by dividing the thickest part of that I “ 11 hes comparatively superficially upon the dorsum of the sacrum, opposite the h! mhhu JTn°r Tn°US ,P1'0Ce^ °f ?e iUum; 2nd and 3rd> 1 remove the tension of bv cmfinv tfiP1D mU,SdeS’ that fOTmed by the ^tU/issimus dorsi and sacro- bnesin' t L ™ theS.e muscles across> sometimes in the lumbar region, and some- Kemlvinrf region, according to the circumstances of the case; but more I ensimTo/thp flat ^UnJbar re£10n' far the origin of these muscles ; 4th, to destroy the I ncision cW m tR d “°re superficlal fuscles, I divide these muscles by a longitudinal v he muscles anneals t^beT pr0C<;SSGS °^the verte^a, at the place where the tension of iffecL the In, - ■ J • r . 111 one instance i cut through, with considerable !■ : ThV? thG Sldf f the Ch6St’ and consequently at some distance P ’ nn e muscl.e crossed the contracted and concave side of the trunk, and When the patient r mnearerl v, uoinraciea ana concave Sid ” ppeared to be accessory in huddling in the ribs of that side. 4 Schnu”bniste°’ Beriin^EI d'6 SchadIichkert (c) °n the Section of the Muscles in Spinal ' ' 1840. No. Curvature; m London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxii. /•awV oeriui, 1793. 4,l5aZettC M6dkfUe d(? Par>«-