634 PllOSTATAL STONES. chiefly of the phosphate of lime; a substance which appears to be neve c deposited in an unmixed state by the urine. Hence the prostata | calculi can be always readily distinguished from those of urinary origin. < (p. 94.) Astrey Cooper (a) says, the largest he has seen “ are not bigger than a pea, and they seldom are so large but their numbers are sometime very considerable.” (p. 295.) In a preparation of this disease in S' Thomas’s Museum, the prostate is studded with little stones like pins, heads of various size. Astley Cooper mentions, that in a case unde; his care, “ these calculi had produced not only painful feelings in th i perinceutn, but a degree of irritation which kept the patient in continue* i mental excitement bordering on insanity.” (p. 296.) They are usuallli accompanied with difficulty in passing the water; may be felt as th. catheter passes over them into the bladder, and by the introduction c the finger into the rectum. These prostatal stones must be removed by cutting through the perr nceum into the prostate gland, and picking them out. [I am doubtful whether the following is to be considered as a prostatal stone, c merely a stone encysted close to the gland, but it has much practical interest, and ma be conveniently mentioned here. A man about middle age applied several years sino to my friend Green, labouring under symptoms of stone in the bladder. He ws< sounded, and a stone felt but obscurely; he was sounded again at some interval, an; with the same result; the operation was therefore deferred, and a few months after b > died of some other complaint. On examination no stone was found in the bladdei? although sounding immediately before had given the same indistinct sensation. Th bladder, penis, and neighbouring parts were therefore removed for closer inspection, an. it was then found that there was a long narrow stone embedded in a cyst before an. below, but in such way that had the lateral operation been performed, and the prostat; divided in the usual way, the forceps would probably have entered the bladder withou detecting the stone in their passage, and consequently the operator would have had thu vexation of supposing the patient had been operated on without really having a stonat although as the sound passed over it had received the indistinct impression before mer tioned.—J. F. S.] Note on Constitutional Stone-Solvents. I have to thank my friend Travers for the following interesting case which feK under his own immediate observation, and which is the best authenticated througbou of any case 1 have heard of. The fragments of the stone are in his possession. ■ A tailor who had long laboured under symptoms of stone was sounded D Travers a few years since, who detected a hard calculus of some size, and counsel la immediate operation. The man being afraid to incur the risk of the proceeding, pa himself under the care of a person at Henley-in-Arden, who administered a consti tion water to the extent of two or three pints per diem. _ . • ■ The patient soon began to pass fragments in quantity, as after the operation <> breaking, the act being attended with acute pain, both before and during rmeturxtio 1 The pain and discharge of fragments continued for many months; both subsided last and at the same time. The patient on one occasion shewed him a box full fragments, for the most part reduced to a powder. This man was examined after death by Dr. Charles of Putney, and no trac™ of stone was discovered in the bladder. -.i Dr. Prout stated the basis of the “ drink” to be carbonate of soda and potass, w a little nitre, in the following proportions Sod® carb. Potass, carb. nitrat. gr. x. gr. viij. Sr> 'j- (a) Surgical Lectures, vol. ii«