800 CANCER OF THE PENIS. a simple cut, and shelled out. Though most practitioners give the bette > advice of removing the whole breast. If the cancerous degeneration have extended to the ribs and jilcurci, the disease^ I parts should, according to Richerand (a), be cut out. 2471. If the wound do not close perfectly, if several parts have an il y appearance, or if a scirrhous swelling spring afresh from the scar, i must either be destroyed by caustic, or still better, be remot ed \\ ith th | knife. ,1 When the wound has scarred, it should be covered with a soft rabbit' T- B skin, the patient’s mode of living attended to, and issues kept up. e.—of cancer of the penis. Pallucci, N. J., Nouvelles Remarques sur la Litliotomie suivies de plusieurs 01 • servations sur la Separation du Penis, &c. Paris, 1750. 8vo. Loder ; in his Chirurgisch-Medicinische Beobachtungen, p. / 9. Richter, Dissertatio de optima membrum virile amputandi methodo. Komgsbeq ; 1804. Thaut, Abhandlung iiber den gesunden und kranken Zustand des m'imihchebB Gliedes. Aus dem Latein. Mit Zusatzen, von Eterel. Wien, 181a. Siebold ; in his Chirurg. Beobachtungen, vol. iii. p. 349. Schreger; in his Chirurgische Versuche, vol. i. p. 242. Biener, Dissertatio de Exstirpatione Penis per ligaturam. Lipsue, 1816. Dzondi ; in Beitrage zur Vollkommung der Heilkunde, vol. i. Halle, 1S15. 2472 Cancer of the Penis begins almost always on the glans or on th t prepuce, in a hard knot or wart, generally at first unaccompanied wit ■ pain, but when it is irritated, or of its own accord it becomes painful, an h runs into ulceration, which is accompanied with an ichorous, stinking^ charge, and with a hard swelling of the neighbouring parts. The urdm is often destroyed at different parts, and the urine flow* ino-s; the neighbouring glands in the groin are affected. I e have the prepuce long, and a collection of cheesy matter upon the glai- from want <5 cleanness, are most frequently degeneration ; and the prepuce inflames, excoriates, swe«s thicken , narrows still more. Ulceration increases on account passing the water; the aperture of the prepuce sometimes doses comp and the urine flows through several openings m the ed j p ^ which may often be degenerated to a great extent before H e d^ ^ ^ . attacked the glans. In aged persons cancer most comnJ?”1? a„< it way just mentioned, upon the prepuce, because, ) j by th < wasting of the penis, the orifice of the prepuce is more influenced uy discharge of the urine. , . re as no ^ The diagnosis of cancer of the penis requires the grea,e , funff0U s unfrequently syphilitic ulcers assume a cancerous appears*jtl b growths, hard out-turned edges, and lancinating pains, accompa g swelling ofrthe neighbouring glands; m which ca*e rcquisite (b) 1 mercurial treatment, in connexion with sedative rcmet^ a|](i want o 2473. When the disease has arisen from a narrow prepu tfid bj 4 cleanliness, in the early period further destructaon^yb £ , purifying injections, by softening poultices, by drawing o („) llistolre d'nne Resection de. tttes et de l. fcr de la ft* '** " PiLJe. Paris, ‘ ~ -'0 » l l