OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE, 44 was performed, “ had existed from the patient’s (aged fifty-four) earliest years,” and that it “ was of enormous size, reaching half-way to the knees,” yet after the division of the stricture, “ it went up with a gurgling noise, as soon as his hand was laid upon the tumour.” And as regards the danger of exposing and handling for a long time a large surface of intestine, as laid down in his second reason for not opening the sac, the only case he refers to is Carpentek’s, who says :—“ It was the largest hernia I ever remember to have seen;” and, having opened the sac “ a large quantity of intestine, with a small piece of omentum protruded;” but after dividing the stricture, the adhesions were so great, that he “judged it advisable not to attempt their separation. And from the size of the hernia, it was quite impossible to bring the integuments over the intestine, which was therefore left exposed to the airyet nothing untoward ensued; “ the intestine soon began to granulate, and gradually shrunk within the wound,” and the patient recovered, (p. 64.) This is the operation on which Astley Cooper lays so great stress, observing:— “ I feel convinced that this operation will be gradually introduced into general practice when it has been fairly tried, and found, if performed early, to be free from danger, and attended with no unusual difficulty.” (p. 64.) “ If we cannot accomplish our object in this manner,” says Lawrence, “ a small aperture may be made in the sac, near the ring, which will enable the Surgeon to introduce a curved director under the stricture; the knife carried along the groove, divides the tendon with ease. When the parts are thus set free, they should be returned into the belly by pressure on the swelling, if adhesions do not prevent this; at all events, they generally admit of being replaced in part.” (p. 285.) (2) I do not think it can be fairly stated from Astley Cooper’s published statements, that he is in the generality of cases favourable to, or that he recommends the practice of dividing the stricture, in strangulated rupture external to the sac, but only lays it down as the general rule in large ruptures. It is quite true that in his great work on Hernia, in the first part of the first edition, when treating of the operation for inguinal rupture, he says :—“ An advantage is derived from dilating the stricture without cutting the sac itself, for there is no danger of injuring the intestine, &c.” (p. 30); and in the second edition he speaks more at length on the subject thus:—“ I have occasionally practised, and for some time recommended in my lectures the following mode of dividing the stricture without including the sac. The tendon of the external oblique having been divided a little above the external ring, the sac is gently drawn down, while the muscles are drawn up by an assistant. In this way the stricture is brought into view, and can be divided without risk, and without including the peritoneum.” (p. 39); and he then enumerates the advantages from this practice, that there is no danger of wounding the intestine, and that if the epigastric artery is cut, as the peritoneum is undivided, the flow of blood would be immediately perceived, and then the vessel might be secured. But in neither edition of his Surgical Lectures, neither that in the Lancet of 1S23-24, nor that edited by Tyrrell in 1827, does he allude to the division of the stricture without opening the sac, except in large ruptures. In both these editions of his Lectures he also expressly directs opening the sac and says in the one (a), after “feeling for the stricture, * * * you introduce the probe-pointed bistoury on the director or finger, and divide the stricture without cutting too much ; ” (p. 478.) and in the other (6), “ having thus exposed the contents of the hernial sac, as far as the seat of stricture, the operator should insinuate the point of his finger or a director under the stricture, between the sac and its contents, at the upper part, carefully keeping the latter from turning over the finger or director. He should then pass the knife for dividing the stricture upon the finger or director, under the stricture, and by a gentle motion divide this stricture, &c.” (pp. 44, 5.) I may also add that 1 have no remembrance of having seen him operate without opening the sac, in the many operations for strangulated rupture which I saw him perform in the Hospital during the first fourteen years of my professional life. To Key, however, must be justly ascribed the revival of Petit’s operation, and of its more extensive application (c). His views with regard to its employment will be seen in the following observations upon fifteen fatal cases. “ The majority of the eases,” he says, “ appeared to have died from peritoneal inflammation consequent upon the ex;>o- sure'of an inflamed or strangulated portion of bowel. I say exposure of the bowel; for it is, probably, not so much the wound in the peritoneal sac that disposes to inflamma- tion,'as placing the bowel under circumstances to which it has hitherto been unaccus- tomed. The sudden change of temperature to which it is submitted, the exposure to („) I.ancet, 1823, 24. (fc) Tyrrf.i.i.'s Edition of Lectures, vol. iii. (e) Memoir, above cited.