560 STONE IN THE BLADDER; 2036. The history of lithotrity affords a sufficient opportunity f<; | deciding on the fitness of these various instruments. Those whici|l effect a gradual rubbing away of the surface of the stone have nevpl enjoyed any particular favour. The perforating instruments, althougJ ,i they led to the direct introduction of lithotrity, have been set asich a by Jacobson’s lithoclast ; and both have been, to a certain degree * supplanted by Heurteloup’s percuteur. From a close examination i ^ the three-limbed perforating forceps of Civiale, and Leroy, of Jacoe , u son’s instrument, of Heurteloup’s percuteur, vvitli screw and hammem or a pignon, there seem to be good grounds for their employment and effect k 2037. The three-limbed, perforating forceps are indeed generally ir { troduced with ease ; but there are circumstances in reference to th' state of the prostate, which may render their introduction difficult and even impossible. In general they readily grasp a large stone; bu the entrance of a large stone between their branches may be difficult : and it may also be exceedingly troublesome to grasp a small stone their expanded branches may also injure a corresponding number t points on the walls of the bladder. When the stone is grasped it can not easily escape, its rubbing into fine powder is very favourable fo its discharge ; but at its final breaking up, there still remain frag, ments the grasping and crushing of which is very difficult. Henc arises’the tediousness of this method; the stone must be grasped, born and let go, must be again grasped and bored, till it can at last be broke, t up. These manoeuvres are difficult, tedious, and painful, to both patien i and operator. One limb of the forceps may get into one of the bore holes, from which it is freed with difficulty; the perforator itself, if i operate on an irregularly-shaped stone, and which is perforated at on part, may act upon one arm of the forceps, and injure, or even break it. 2038. Jacobson’s instrument is easily introduced; searching for am grasping the stone with it is less dangerous, as when it is opened, tb stone almost of itself gets into it; on account of its curve, however it is difficult to sound certain parts of the bladder—for instance, nea its neck. Flat stones are always seized with more difficulty by it thai by the three-limbed forceps, and not always easily fixed. The stone i sometimes broken slowly, without pain, and without the pieces stnkini injuriously against the walls of the bladder. No stone can resist it action (Dufuytren, Pigne') ; and if the instrument should break its pieces remain connected with the body of the instrument, and J giving it the proper direction, may be withdrawn with it, withou dano-er or difficulty. The dimensions of the instrument, however, may be so large that it cannot grasp a large stone ; it is, therefore, suitabl- only for small stones. It is, above all, necessary that the stone shou c be caught in the middle, as otherwise it is difficult to fix, and easily escapes. Lastly, the remainder of the stone may continue attached to th< branches of the instrument, and render its withdrawal difficult, or evet impossible : this awkward circumstance is, however, prevented by u* boy’s modification. # , . , 2039 Heurteloup’s percuteur is most easily of all introduced ini and managed when in, the bladder. Stones of every shape and size cai be firmly grasped by it, and their escape is less to be feared than fron any other*instrument. The position of the stone, when smed, can b. anv other instrument. mo^e easily changed, its size measured, and every part of the bladder m