RETENTION OF URINE. 409 h ill perfect surety, if the patient have had frequent symptoms of inflamma- | n and the swelling is no longer movable, as also by a slight adhesion the u ter may be effected) we must not dare to undertake the evacuation by a enin°- the gall bladder, as fatal escape of the bile is to be dreaded. For l s reason it appears not advisable to open the swelling previous to the i lamination of the wall of the belly, and even of the external coverings I mo- distinctly ascertained, that the bile may make its way out externally, D which case the adhesion is always to a proper extent (a). * 1774. Opening the gall bladder is best managed by making a cut into X > skin an inch and a half long upon the swelling, and then smaller cuts I -ough the muscles down to the peritonceum ; then with the forefinger of I . left hand it must be cautiously ascertained if the gall bladder adhere, 1 at the most fluctuating part the bistoury or lancet should be thrust f •ough the peritonceum and the wall of the gall bladder. If the adhesion * .ween the gall bladder and peritonceum be not fully made out, then, j( er the peritonceum has been laid bare as just mentioned, a trocar is to I thrust into the most fluctuating part and the tube left in till the gall X flder and peritonceum have united together, or caustic should be applied \ the peritonceum to produce this union (b). c. 1775. When the gall bladder has been emptied the opening must be t ntly filled with lint, the inflammatory symptoms excited must be treated eh 1 roper remedies, and in other respects it must be treated as has | >n already mentioned in biliary fistula (par. 913.) III.—OF RETENTION OF URINE, u Llbrecht, G., De Ischuria. Gotting., 1767. 4to. u Vagner, J., Dissert, de Ischuria vesicali atque vesicae paracentesi. Argent , 1779. 4to. t iIurray, Dissert, de Paracentesi Cystidis urinarise. Upsal, 1771. 4to. flj Veldon, Walter, Observations on the different modes of Puncturing the Bladder ■j »ses of Retention of Urine; with an Appendix on Retention of Urine, and on Ca- ters. Southampton, 1783. 8vo. ,) Bonn, A., Bemerkungen liber die Harnverhaltung und den Blasenstich iiber dem ; laambein. From the Dutch. Leipzig, 1796. 8vo. s icHMip, W., Ueber diejenigen Kranklieiten der Harnblase, Vorsteherdriise, und Harn- a .re (mit Ausnahme der Blasensteine) denen vorziiglich Manner in hohem Alter aus- -■ etzt sind. Wien, 1806. 8vo. i 3nsault, GEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 112. Soemmering, S. T., Abhandlung iiber die schnell und langsam todtenden Krank- ten der Harnblase und Harnrhore bei Miinnern im hohen Alter. Frankf., 1822. 8vo. i :oud Edition. a Jhopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies urinaires. Nouvelle Edition, par E. H. I lix Pascal. Paris, 1821. 2 vols. 8vo. i Ieinlein, Bemerkungen iiber die Ischurie; in Harless Jahrbiichern der deutschen ■uicin und Chirurgie. vol. i. p. 185; vol. iii. p. 102. Charles, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, &c. * lr<l Edition ; with Notes by J. Shaw. London, 1822. 8vo. f Robert, A Practical Essay on the Diseases and Iniuries of the Bladder ■ ndou, 1822. 8vo. (■ lowsmp, James, On the Diseases of the Urine and the Urinary Organs. London, iWoulin, Nouv. Traitement des Retentions d'Urine. Paris, 1824. fl<76. Retention of Urine ( Retentio Urincc, Ischuria, Lat.; Urinver- ^1 Dilpich ; Pricis Elcmcntaire, vol. ii. p. 272. (i) Richter ; Anfangsgriinde, vol. v. p. 125-27.