CLUB-FOOT. 176 The shortened muscles are m. tibialis anticus, and posticus, gaslrocnemii soleus, and plantaris, the plantar fascia, m. flexor longus digitorum pedis, abductor pollicis, transversalis pedis, flexor brevis minimi digiti, flexor longus, and brevis pollicis. The lengthened muscles are m. peronem longus, tertius, brevis, extensor longus and brevis digitorum pedis, ab- ductor minimi digiti. All the ligaments on the plantar surface, and on the inside of the foot, are shortened, as, on the contrary, those on its back and outer edge are lengthened. The tarsal bones are herewith, according to the degree of curving, more or less removed from their mutual contact, without entirely leaving the sockets or hollows, in which they had been received. The navicular, the cuboid, the heel-bone, and astragalus, especially change their position, and are twisted on their small axis. If club-foot exist long, the bones are fixed in their unnatural position, and more or less changed in their form. Opinions as to the cause of club-foot are very various. The notions of Pare and others, who held it to be the consequence of long sitting during pregnancy, with the legs twisted over each other, or from pressure of the feet in washing and carrying children, are merely to be mentioned. Duverney (a) fixed the cause of these curvatures in the muscles, and derived it from the unequal stretching of them and of the ligaments. Scarpa, as well as Bruchner and Naumberc, believed that vicious twisting of the foot first exists, and thereby is caused an approximation of the points of insertion of some muscles, and the distancing of others from their fixed points ; consequently, a shortening of the former, and an elongation of the latter. Wantzel considers club-foot i as great adduction, accompanied with violent extension, whence necessarily are the corresponding consequences; and Jorg holds it as a continued adduction, become habitual to the foot. Delpech (6) has of late withdrawn his previous opinion that the cause of club-foot is in the form of the bones, because the muscles do not oppose a contrary direction of the foot, which is especially distinct in those cases where the shortening is accompanied with atrophy, and with a sort of palsy. He considers tbel congenital, or accidental shortening of the muscles, as the peculiar cause of club-fooU and, at the same time, has pointed out the retraction of the plantar fascia. Rudolphi, who has several times seen this deformity in the foetus of from three to four months,* derives it from arrest of the nervous influence, contrary to the opinion put forth by Camper and Glisson, that the club-foot arose from vicious position of the child in the womb, by which the foot was pressed on, and its development prevented; an opinion in which Cruvelhier (c) has participated, and Martin (d) has sought to ground in pressure of the womb from deficiency of the waters. Scoutetten holds the following as the causes of congenital and postgenital club-foot. 1. Unequal division ot power between the extending and flexing muscles ; 2. Vicious condition of the joint surfaced of the tarsal bones ; 3. Vicious position of the foetus in the womb ; 4. Compression ot the flexible joints by contraction of the womb; 5. Convulsions of tbe child in tnei womb - 6. Convulsions in early childhood; 7. Chronic inflammation of the muscles01 j the leg- 8. Vicious innervation, dependent on disease of the brain, or spinal marrowr"] without’previous convulsions; 9. Contraction of the plantar fascia; 10. Contraction i of the muscles, without discernible cause. Duval (e) assumes as causes of congenital^ club-foot, (as well as of the other curvatures,) vicious position of the foot in the wouid. and disturbance of the functions of the brain and spinal marrow. Consecutive or ace • dental curvatures he derives from wounds, fractures, dislocations, bad holding ot tn foot from inflammation, abscess, and so on. With all these causes, unequal actmt} ot the muscles exists. Blasius (/) puts forth the congenital club-foot alone as th©MM one- in it the above-described symptoms are found. That occurring after birl 1, usually is not so great, and is produced by wounds, ulceration, palsy of the: m ■ dyscrasy, and neuralgy, is a natural extension of the foot, caused by too violen c tion of the muscles of the calf, in which the turning around the long axis of the tan <3 follows only secondarily from walking. This lie calls the seeming club-foot. Club-foot is, according to Little, easily distinguishable from that deforim } j (a') Traite dos Maladies des Os, vol. ii. c. 3. <1 tN „ 117 V (d) Bulletin de l’Academie de Medeune H _ y dU C°rps 1Il,main‘ Vt) Nov., >838. Paris, 18- •(^"Kijnische Zcitschrlft lor Cliirurgie und Augenheilkunde. pt. i. p. GO. a