315 GROWING TOGETHER OF THE GUMS AND CHEEKS. ,,, e and middle fingers of the left hand, the tongue must be set free with ! urved bistoury to its proper extent. Occasionally, though not, I believe, very often, after severe sloughing of the mem- ■ ’ ne of the mouth, mostly after the use of mercury, the tongue contracts adhesion with 1 clieek. I have recently had one such case under my care, the only one I have seen which the side of the tongue was attached to the extent of half an inch. I applied '“’wature around the band, which separated in three or four days, and set the tongue ci I preferred the ligature to snipping it through, lest there might be trouble from -* ;r-bleeding.—J. F. S.J (1582. The accidents which may occur after separating the tongue in , above cases are bleeding, and when the tongue has been divided to a jat extent there is danger of suffocation. Attempts to stop bleeding the wounded ranine artery must be made with little bundles of lint, listened in styptics, Theden’s arquebusade, or a solution of alum, which I juld be pressed against it with the finger ; or the actual cautery may be plied to the bleeding part, which in all cases is preferable to the com- * jssors of Petit, Jourdain, and Lampe. Bleeding may also be pro- 1 ced by the child sucking his tongue; in which case the blood will be • allowed. Care must, therefore, be taken for the first few days, that len he awake he be laid on his breast. f If there be danger of suffocation by the tongue turning backwards, it ■ ist be brought forward with the finger in the mouth, put in its place, - d there kept by means of a thick pad put upon the tongue, and fastened u: a bandage carried round the lower jaw ; this must be removed as often 0 the child needs to drink (a). 1 1583. The membranous connexion of the tongue with the correspond- g part of the gums, fixes the tongue either equally on both sides, or it 'drawn to one or other side, according as it is unequally attached, or ion one side. The division of this connexion is always easily effected with e scissors. V.—OF GROWING TOGETHER OF THE GUMS AND CHEEKS. 1584. The growing together of the gums with the cheeks is mostly con- (quent on inflammation and excoriation, the violent use of mercury, and - <e severe salivation following it, if the lips and cheeks be quiet. It may ny of greater or less extent, by which chewing and speech are more or less ndered. It may be prevented in the above instances by frequently cleans- fg and injecting the mouth, by pencilling it with mucilaginous fluids, by the Production of pieces of soft linen, by frequent movements of the parts, ' hd introduction of the fingers ; and, by the same means, an already formed Jglutination may be got rid of. If the connexion be firmer it must be vided with a bistoury, and prevented reuniting. VI.—OF NARROWING AND CLOSURE OF THE MOUTH. Dikffendach, Erfahrungen iiber die Wiederherstellung zerstorter Theile, u. s. w., ct. iii. p. 65. Rost, G., Diss. de chilo- et stomatoplastice. Berol., 1836. Baumcarten, Diss. de chiloplastice et stomatopoesi. Lips., 1837. Zeis, Handbuch der plastichen Chirurgie, p. 435. 1585. Complete closure of the mouth as a vice of the first formation, is 6ry rare, and mostly accompanied with other vicious formations. A (a) Petit.