938 EXARTICULATION OF TIIE TIIIGII, an assistant, and carefully tied, and after the surface of the wound has^ been properly cleansed, the flaps are brought into apposition, some sutures applied, the union supported by strips of sticking plaster, covered with lint, and a compress, and fixed with a proper bandage. Larrey (a) has subsequently recommended another method, in which after tying the. crural artery, he makes a circular cut immediately below the great trochanter, through, the skin, to determine the length of the flap. The inner flap must then be made either . from without inwards, or from within outwards, according to the condition of the parts.-, i The capsular ligament is divided with the same knife, the head of the bone dislocatedd I inwards, the round ligament divided, and the knife being carried over it into the skin-cut,' i the outer flap is thus formed. After tying the bleeding vessels, the ligatures are placed! in the bottom of the wound, and a piece of oiled linen put into that angle of the wounddl nearest to the hip-socket, and then the flaps closed. Mott (b) forms the inner flap according to Larrey’s method, by thrusting m the knife, and the outer flap by cutting from without inwards. 2761. According to Dupuytren (c), the operator, placed on the inner side of the thigh, and the artery being properly compressed, makes a semi- circular cut from the region of tire upper front spine of the ilium, over the inner side to the ischial tuberosity, through the skin, draws it back- wards, cuts through the muscles in the same direction, thus forming an inner flap four or five inches long, turns this back, divides the capsule, and finishes the operation by the formation of the outei flap. According to Dupuytren’s (d) earlier experience, the operator should stand on the outer side of the limb, with his hands on the upper part of the thigh, so that by gently moving he can discover the situation of the joint. From this place he makes a semi-, circular cut passing three inches down, over the outer hinder part, and ending bal an inch below the ischial tuberosity; the skin is then drawn back and the muscles divided at its edge down to the bone. To this outer cut, the operator makes a second and corresponding one over the inner side of the thigh, which joins the first at tie points where it begins and ends. The outer and inner flaps are separated up to the joint, and held back by an assistant. The capsule is divided by a circular cut, aft®-, wards the round ligament, and then the head of the bone is removed. 2762. According to Lisfranc (e) the thigh is to be held extended by an assistant, and the operator, standing on the outside of the limb, draws a line from the front upper spine of the ilium, parallel with the axis oi the thigh, and an incli in length, from the lower inner end of which, at a rig ano-le to it or transversely a second line half an inch long. At le en this latter line he thrusts the point of a long straight knife, with its edge following a line from its entrance to the upper outer part of the grW trochanter. The blade of the knife now upon the outer side of the head of the thigh-bone, passes round it and projects at the middle hinder p of the buttock. By some strokes upwards and outwards, avoiding great trochanter, the knife is carried along the thigh two niches, am the flap is completed. After the bleeding arteries have been tied, » assistant holds the flap back. The knife is now carried round the neck the bone, and again passed to the hind upper angle of the wound, parts, if necessary, being pressed inwards, to avoid the lesser trocha ' j and a flap formed on the inner side of the bone, of the same len ■ form as the outer. The operator tl.en grasps the tlngli with* hand, brings the edge of the knife perpendicularly upon thei inner sj ^ the head of the bone, which he runs round as much as possible, di (a) Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. fill. ..wecited.P- V ’ 1 vol. i. p. 177.—MoKiwtTii»tK«, above earn, £ (b) Above cited. M _Avf.ru. t., above cited, p. InS.-h'** ' . (c) Legons Orates, vol.»'• P- ■ ; 1823 . Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vo • (rf) Archives gem-rales dc Blcneci p. 657. 1823 M mkoaUlt, above cited, pi- (ej Archives general** de Mddecine. 1823 ; ng. 2D.