BY LIGATURE. 217 irst intention, and the patients lost their lives from the consequent hmmorrhage. The f r'emoral and popliteal arteries are portions of the same trunk, presenting themselves on a litfereut sides of the thigh, and are readily come at in either situation : but where the •. irtery is passing from the one side to the other, it is more buried in the surrounding | iarts, and cannot be exposed without some difficulty. In performing the operation for £ he popliteal aneurism, especially when the tumour is large, the ligature is commonly >! ipplied on the artery at that part where it emerges from the muscles. This will be too i- imited a space, should it prove diseased for some way higher up; and if the artery l houltl afterwards give way from any of the causes above mentioned, there will not be a efficient length of vessel remaining to allow of its being again secured in the ham. To follow the artery up through the insections of the triceps muscle, to get at a portion >f it where it is sound becomes a very disagreeable part of the operation; and to make ■a incision on the fore part of the thigh, to get at and secure the femoral artery, would •e breaking new ground—a thing to be avoided, if possible, in all operations. From hese considerations, suggested by the accident of the artery giving way, which hap- i ened several times to Mr. Hunter, he proposed, in performing this operation, that the rtery should be taken up at some distance from the diseased part, so as to diminish the isk of haemorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily secured, should any uch accident happen. The force of the circulation being thus taken off from the aneuris- aal sac, the cause of the disease would, in Mr. Hunter’s opinion, be removed; and he bought it highly probable that if the parts were left to themselves the sac, with the lagulated blood contained in it, might be absorbed, and the whole of the tumour moved by the actions of the. animal economy, which would consequently render any penmg into the sac unnecessary.” (p. 391-93.) J 1422. The operation for aneurysm is generally indicated—1. Ifcompres- ion be not applicable. 2. When, as regards the position of the artery it j ail be employed, but cannot be borne. 3. When the aneurysm, already j, lrge, threatens to burst, or has burst. 4. In spurious diffused aneurysm men the effusion of blood is considerable. The result of the operation for | neurysm is extremely doubtful, if several aneurysms exist in the same “ erson’ “ the Patient be in years, or weakly, if from the size of the swelling I estruction of the bones and neighbouring parts have been produced’ :r erebj, perhaps, the collateral branches have been closed ; if the arterial oats be rigid, or in any other way changed by disease, and compression, ) swathing the limb, have been too long employed. The lara-er the nncipal trunk to be tied is, the more doubtful is the prognosis; the / distance rendered by nature by the enlargement of the collateral circu- ttion is, however, very remarkable, and under the most unfavourable ircumstances the treatment often presents the happiest results. tyVhrce colllteS *at Surgeons have laid too much stress on theneces- y o large collateral branches being present, to ensure the snoopy nf +v,;0 +• ssr-Kr-rtB tery.-J F. S.]S 11 and the heart' on a presumed healthy part of the t'on2ttJ)he‘aXvi,°LtTnn r3'S,',''’ h V”**the «“’>afto «"> <*cu- aneurysmal nail ?l i' J by l.he “PPlication of a tourniquet above cut,whiA mJStoS w,”^.VeT8d,he S"el,in« is t0 be divided by to be opened in the «mc ,r " ,-Ve ° )elow it; the sac of the aneurysm ivity cleansed The S lrectl0n) all the blood-clot removed, and the 1 ' lhe Surgeon then endeavours to find out the proper