219 FOR POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. attempted to operate with peculiar arterial compresses; these metallic contrivances are, however dangerous, and in reference to their operation on the coats of the aitery, and the parts surrounding it, not comparable to the soft cylinder which adapts itself to the periphery of the artery. ...... Joses (a) advanced the opinion, that, if upon a large artery several circular ligatures be made near each other, whereby as many tears of the internal coat are produced, and the threads be immediately removed, the plastic lymph effused into the cavity of the artery is sufficient for its obliteration. Hodgson (jb) has, by experiment, disproved this opinion. Trayeks (c) recommended, but subsequently disadvised such treatment. Cases, how- ever, are given, in which the ligature was removed twenty-four hours (d), and fifty and a half hours (e), after tying, and the cure ensued. Scarpa also has observed, that the closure of the artery follows, if the ligature, with its subjacent linen cylinder, be removed on the third or fourth day; only in weakly persons is it necessary to leave the ligature till the sixth day. Scarpa, as well as others, have made known cases favour- able to this mode of treatment. His mode of applying the ligature with a subjacent cylinder specially facilitates its removal. Scarpa uses a peculiar grooved probe, cleft in front aud open, aud a small knife for loosening the ligature. The proposals of Palletta and Roberts must be here mentioned; by means of a sliding thread, the tightened principal loop may be again loosened; by Giuntini, one thread is attached to a little roller, in order to draw it out after the loop is cut through; Uccelli introduces a small metal half cylinder between the linen roller and the loop (f). Vacca Beri.inghieri (<j) is in favour of Scarpa’s mode of tying with the linen roller, but not for the removal of the ligature on the fourth day. The experiments, as regards the temporary ligature on the human subject, are not yet sufficiently numerous to decide whether it should be gene- rally employed, or only in particular cases, perhaps in old subjects and so on. It is i always to be remembered, that the removal of the roller acts as an interruption, for it is r firmly pressed on the artery by the loop, clings tight to it, and cannot be removed without tearing, even after the loop has been cut through. In order to get rid of the inconve- nience dependent on the threads hanging out of the wound, Lawrence (A) proposed tying 1 the artery with a fine silk thread, cutting it off at the knot, and closing the wound, (for ; '.he same reason, Astley Cooper (i) used silk-worm gut previously moistened in warm water,) as the retained knots are either absorbed or enclosed in a cellular capsule. Many cases, however, decide against this mode of tying (j). Maunoir (k) and Aber- 2 s’ethy (1), under the supposition that the tied artery retracts actively, and thereby ii specially produces tearing and secondary bleeding, advised the application of two liga- ures, and the division of the artery between (4). The rarity of secondary bleeding l ifter amputation, which has been considered as a reason for the preference of this mode of .V ying, is on more than one ground inapplicable; experience is opposed to this method of ; ying; besides, in many cases, it cannot be undertaken, on account of the want of space, >r the deep situation of the artery. The application of the so-called reserve ligature, p hat is, some threads which in case of secondary bleeding may be drawn together, is not a inly useless, but dangerous, and therefore to be rejected. | 1(1) The operation of tying the femoral artery, for popliteal aneurysm, the first upon l. rhich John Hunter (to) operated by his new method, Dec. 1785, was conducted in the fol- ? owing manner:— “ A tourniquet was previously applied but not tightened, that the parts t aight be left as much in their natural situation as possible ; and he began the operation by 4 naking an incision on the fore and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, f fhieh incision was continued obliquely across the lower edge of the sartorius muscle, nd was made large to give room for the better performing of whatever might be i 'ecessary in the course of the operation ; the fascia, which covers the artery, was then t aid bare for about three inches in length, and the artery being plainly felt, a slight 9 n<-'si°n’ about an inch long, was made through this fascia along the side of the vessel, * n( 1116 facia dissected off, by which means the artery was exposed. Having dis- (fl) A Treatise on the Process employed by Na- re in suppressing Ilaimorrlmge, &c., and on the « or the Ligature, &c. London, 1810. Bvo. W Above cited, p. 228. L (^2^‘k-Chir.Trans.vol. iv. p. 435,vol.vl. p. G32. : ' i • "e MC(lical nn<l Surgical Register, consist- It chiefly of cases in the New York Hospital, by V. Mott, A. H. Stevens. New York. «;.< 18. p. lo7-163. 5 («) Roberts, W.;!,, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. ■ • >• p. 100. ' l>rof- Scar,‘a "1 Lottori Omodki 'i rti (,'tosse Arterie degli O'/) Seii.er’s Sammlung von Abhandlnngen, u. s. w.—Sf.ii.er has made some experiments, and is favourable to Scarpa’s temporary Ligature. Ib., p.156. (/i) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. viii. p. 490. (ij Surgical Essays, part i. p. 126. (j) Cross ; in London Medical Repositorv, vol. vii p. 363.—Cooper, A., Lectures on Surgery, vol. ii. p. 57. yO Dissert, sur la Section de TArterc entre deux Ligatures dans l’operation de TAnevjrisme. Paris, an xni. (0 Surgical Works, vol. i. p. 151. (m) London Medical Journal, vol. vii.