LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. 625 2138. If now, after the consideration, founded on experience, of the advantages and disadvantages of lithotomy and lithotrity, the particular cases in which the one or other practice is specially indicated, be re- viewed, it follows that lithotrity appears preferable, first, in small stones or those of no great size; second, when there are two, or several little stones; third, in stones of moderate size, and when they can be easily broken, and if in all these cases the bladder be healthy, or only in a trivial degree affected. These indications are more important, when such cases occur in old persons, in females, or in very stout people. On the other hand, lithotomy is decidedly to be preferred ; first, in childhood ; second, with large and hard, and especially mulberry stones ; third, when there are several large stones; fourth, when large stones entirely fill, or , are completely locked in by a contracted and unextensible bladder ; > fifth, in diseased prostate, or severe affection of the bladder; sixth, in very great sensibility of the bladder, so that the patient can bear neither its distension, nor the motion of the instruments ; seventh, with stones, of which the nucleus, as, for example, when it is a bullet or the like, cannot be destroyed by the lithotriptor. It is also not to be overlooked, that in the general employment of lithotrity, the patient should be subjected to it : early, by which its results are more certain, and its use will become more easy and general. On the other hand, however, it must not be unnoticed, that under directly the same circumstances, which are favourable for crushing, does cutting for the stone, if performed with ability, lose much of its danger. Strictures of the urethra are only temporary contraindications for lithotrity, and equally applying to lithotomy, they must be first got rid of. Palsy of the bladder 1 *Jei'her contraindicates lithotrity, nor renders its performance difficult. Should the r fragments of the stone indeed be discharged more slowly or with difficulty, this may m f, -T °'''ercome by injections; and experience has shown that the palsy of the bladder has been relieved, and even removed, by the effect of the lithotriptic operation, S3 wmcli, however, has also been several times noticed after lithotomy. , L“ commencing the practice of lithotrity, I have found,” says Key, “that more man Halt the number of adults who have come under my care have been fit subjects „ i °Peratlon; and that in the majority of persons afflicted with calculus, it has a.dvantaSres °Jer lithotomy. One among the principal advantages which ^ to mikpyfiftpCOn vrrd °A U'g!,ry 1S,the early application which patients are induced L ^ nef °f,theU' d'sorde';- Formerly * * * the disease was asso- „ rtmiir tthelr nunds wlttl a most painful and dangerous operation, that must be had I suffering ’ Tif i remedy’ ,whG£ P.alhative measures failed to afford relief to their I ^tfemigs. The dangers and sufferings of lithotomy, magnified as they were bv the l TZtlT detGved “r a?plyilnS for medical assistance when the pains if the t™ T up0n him1’by ;h(; dread of having his worst fears confirmed. Even ■> allowed to “Ce °fa ,e ^ bis bladder were ascertained, it was, in too many instances, l si"rai that ffle1LU, t1Ur C’m expectation that it might not increase in It so often wf lie severity of Pam might continue to be mitigated by the medicines that liuntilffie f 6n f0U,U t°,aSSUage hlS PanSs' The operation was thus procrastinated n the nf ,l eea,<:FU,rC,d a -arg? ,S1ZC’ often Until the bIadder had become diseased, and , - ^ undermined by protracted sufferings. * * * Nor has lit.hotritv i him for syTpt^^of fu SulF°n- Formerly, when a patient first consulted ifi by sedative and^lk ^ fbllowed by pain, he was content to palliate the malady ® iflection stone nr medicines, regardless whether they were caused by prostatic 1 bat couid be used a anv 'iL l' d ^1'1' ?"0^ The« USe.of the sound was deferred: f "hen th(. nmtont\ sMfF rCrF USUally> waf first introduced into the bladder i if soundffi^was^alstFenmbw «i3d bec?me severe and protracted. * * * The operation ii "hen smalf, it would he in'1,!11 a slov?nly “anner- if the stone were not discovered $ early stage. Now the q„rrF dI'ge’ and n? advantage was gained by operating in the * lortance of discovering thet, /'! ^xam.lr‘£s the bladder with great care, knowing the im- Vol. ix S e calculus at the earliest period, he no longer leaves its exist- * 2 s