238 TYING TIIE LINGUAL, *■ arterv and vein run down from above to the internal jugular vein. Ihe trunk of the facial veins lies in part upon the artery, and upon the wall of the artery descends a branch of the hypoglossal nerve. On the outside of the artery are the internal carotid artery, and the internal jugular vem, which frequently covers the latter artery ; together with them descend the . pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves, which divide into many branches. , Between" and rather behind the two arteries, passes up with, and very near . it the ascending pharyngeal artery, from the external carotid. laryngeal nerve, as well as branches of the hypoglossal nerve, cross it y deeply, passing on the back and inner part inwards and upwards. Thety external carotid artery is best tied either above the giving off of the superior thyroideal, or where it crosses the lower edge of the digastn#^ muscle. This muscle, and the hypoglossal nerve, must therefore be somewhat separated from the cellular sheath, and with the submaxillar, o-land drawn upwards with a hook by one assistant, whilst another draw the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein’ a“d Je nem|j outwards. When the operator has now in part pressed the trunk of thjll facial veins lying on the artery, aside and inwards, he opens the sheafli of the artery with the handle of the scalpel, and passes the ligature with ; Desch imps’ needle from without inwards. . , . ! 1444 Bko-ard (a) I,a* proposed lying the Ungual artery .n bleed™, after^eep extirpation V the’ toLgue and the like. Ty.ng t. on is sufficient, as the bleeding from the other side of *e ton^« stanched by cauterization. The patient bes with his head ; back and with his face turned towards the sound side ; the operator thtvrf roughly satisfies himself of the position of the.tongue^ ! the whole operation, must guide him, and makes a cu {j inch and a quarter long, which he commences a \ the tongue-bone, and carries upwards and forwards, half an body of that bone. The skin and ». platysma myoides ^ thus n ^ r avoiding the facial vein, which is to be turned backwards II e cei^™ sheath of the submaxillary gland is then to be opened, anc id^u«c]es, as * without injuring it upon which the digastric and : well as the hypoglossal nerve, appear. If these aitterem “ ..Jj near tL tongue-bone, as happens with must be gently raised, so as to expose the outer side of t muscle, some fibres of which are to be seize . ' which the artery b 1 director introduced under them and then divided, upon which exposed, and easily isolated. ]Y w;th the Dietrich (b) makes the cut as in tying the external carotid artery, J ^ difference, that he begins three lines from the ander edge of the 1 } J an( it two inches downwards, through the skin, Lr!7i divided, thi external cervical fascia. 1 he vein being avoided, and the secon y . m edges of the wound are to be kept asunder with hooks, when JX^ound The cellule lower edge of the digastric muscle appear at the upper angle of the ■ u[- . tissue, connecting the gland with the -rvear which exposes the stylo-hyoideal muscle. Both muscles and t ie yj b divide^ to be drawn downwards or upwards, and the two layers of ceUnlar ti^ue oe. fe with die handle of the knife, the artery now appears dose * «h external carotid artery, from which it is given off stiff fhrth« (o) Manec, above cited, pi. iii. Averii.e, above cited, p. 53. „ , .. w on- ' -Bki.i., Ciiabi.es, Operative Surgery, vol. n. p. 50- ’ (ft) A'hjvc cited, p. 3 -•