CLOSURE OF THE RECTUM. 325 | Flachs, Dissert, de Atresia Ani congenita. Lipsise, 1834. r T\nchou, S., Traite des Re'tre'cissements du Canal de l’Uretre et de l’lntestine H etum, contenant l’apprcciation des divers moyens employe's dans le Traitement de ces dadies. Paris, 1835. 8vo. , „ Brodie, Sir B. C., Clinical Lecture on Stricture of the Rectum, &c.; in London Ejdical Review, vol. xvi. 1835. a Bushe, George, M.D., A Treatise on the Malformations, Injuries, and Diseases of , ■ Rectum and Anus. New York, 1837. 8vo. ISyme, James, On Diseases of the Rectum. Edinburgh, 1837. 8vo. Avon Ammon, Chirurgische Pathologic in Abbildungen, part i. pi. x.. 1609. Closure of the Rectum (Imperforatio, Atresia Ani, Lat.; Ver- st Uiessung des Mastdarmes, Germ. ; Imperforation du Rectum, Fr.) is . Lays a vice of the first formation; but Stricture (Strictura Ani, Lat.) serengerung des Mastdarmes, Germ. ; Retrecissement du Rectum, Fr.) ,snst usually arises subsequently, and is rarely congenital. J1610. The congenital closure of the rectum depends either on a simple imbrane, which more or less resembles the general coverings or the I ;estinal membrane of the gut, and is situated either immediately at the anal n urture, or more or less high in its cavity ; or there is not a trace of anus, } d the rectum opens more or less high in a blind sac. Those cases of ■ngenital malformation must be now also mentioned, in which the rectum, iH ens into the urinary bladder, urethra, or some other aperture, whilst the y. .us is closed. . Compare von Ammon (a) upon the unnatural openings of the anus, and the other ^formations therewith connected. 1611. Closure of the rectum always causes violent forcing and strain- ; with which, nothing being discharged by the anus, painful tension the belly, vomiting of green or yellowish matter, arise; and to these umptoms convulsions are afterwards added. If the rectum be closed a simple membrane, it is, especially when the child cries, protruded ■ .e a sac, and the meconium is seen through it. If the closing membrane higher, it is ascertained by the introduction of the finger or of an ' istic sound. [Although imperforation of the anus or rectum is generally soon discovered by the 1 Aid not passing motions, yet a case is mentioned by Wolff (A), in which it was not | and out till the evening of the twelfth day after birth, when the child was attacked with uniting, hiccough, and convulsions; the belly was very full and tender. The anus -'.(is found imperforate, but the gut could not be opened by a lancet thrust in to the depth two inches. A pharyngotome was then passed up, and with it an aperture made, d by the use of clysters and tents the child ultimately recovered.] 1612. If the external opening of the rectum be closed by skin, it is fficient to thrust into it a straight bistoury, and to enlarge the wound 1 Jh a button-ended bistoury on a director; and, if it seem necessary, the •ps thus formed may be removed with the scissors. If the closed part the rectum be higher up, a narrow, straight bistoury must be intro- iced, in a proper direction, upon the forefinger of the left hand, or upon director, through the closing membrane, and the opening thus made en- rged with the button-ended bistoury ; a trochar or a pharyngotome will iswer the same purpose. Tins treatment is, according to the kind of 0sure, accompanied with more or less difficulty ; the expanded part of e rectum, instead of the seat of closure, may be lighted on, and fatal usion into the jrelvis follow. The closed part may be hard, callous, car- t'd Cited at head of article. (6) Lanoknbeok’s Bibliothek, vol. iii. p. 231.