EXARTICULATION OF THE LEG 942 ing attached, and separates the limb. In operating on the right thigh jj, the Surgeon places himself on the fore part of the limb, but the otherjl proceedings are the same. 2771. Cornuau lays down the following mode of practice. The pa-.j ■ tient being laid on his sound side, the operator with the fingers of his lef:| 1 hand ascertains the situation of the great trochanter, from the top o:j L which he makes his first cut obliquely downwards and forwards to a righ’ j A angle, formed by the union of a horizontal line from the ischial tuber osity with another descending vertically from the upper front spine of the ilium. A second cut of equal length, and forming with the first an acute angle upon the great trochanter, passes obliquely backwards and down- wards to the middle of the thickness of the limb. The outer, hinder ant q fore part of the joint is now laid bare; the capsular ligament must b< ; opened as near as possible to the edge of the socket; after the division oj the rest of the muscles which remain undivided by the first cut, the heat is dislocated outwards, the round ligament easily separated, and the knife carried round the head towards the inner side of the limb. One assistant on the outside grasps the front flap of the wound, and in its thick nest- compresses the femoral artery; another draws the skin of the inside o the thigh upwards, whilst the operator with his left hand supporting tin thigh, uses the knife till it come to the lower angle of the first cut, whicl finishes the division of the soft parts, rounds the inside of the wound, anc completes the removal of the limb. 2772. Of these several modes of proceeding which have been pi;oposeo for the exarticulation of the thigh-bone, I hold Larrey’s with the thrusj of the knife, and the formation of an inner and an outer flap, {par. 2760.] or if the condition of the parts permit, the formation of a single innei flap, {par. 2753,) or of a single outer flap, {par. 2757,) the most prefer- able in regard to safety and ease of performance. It has also been, n most of the published cases, in which the operation has had a successnfl result, the way in which, with slight deviations, it has been performed' As to the objection in reference to the bleeding, the artery may be pre- viously tied, if there be no competent assistant to be intrusted with its compression. , . The wound should be brought together with sutures and strips oi plaster, a piece of oiled linen put in the lower corner of the wound, and the whole covered with lint and compress fastened with tne mguina bandage. Jaeger holds this dressing not always of use, recommends cold fomentations and applies the dressing just after suppuration come on. II- iA.-OF EXARTICULATION OF THE LEG AT THE KNEE. (Exarticulatio Cruris, Lat.; AblBsung des Unterschenhels im Knicgelenke, Germ.; v ’ JJtfsurticulatiou de la Jambc, Fr.) Biiasdor, above cited, Textor, Ueber die Amputation im Kniegelenke; in neue Chiron, vol. i. p- L . .. i. a io /Unc r Arfipulntion duGene Textoh, Ueber uie /vinpuuuiuu im Avm^ituivv, ~ . Velpeau, Me'moire sur 1’Amputation de la Jambe dans 1’Articulation du Genoa, Archives Ge'nerales de Medecine, vol. xxiv. p. 44. 1830. it v it I J.. :s Generates de ivieuecine, vui. aaiv. y- j Discussion Nouvelle ii l’oecasiou du Rapport de M. Lajuusy, sur Univ. et \ les avantages de 1’Amputation de la Jambe dans 1 article; in Jonrn. , u -.i m,;.. Pr,hn,i« Novembre, 1830. nnce et ico avumwgvu «« x Ilebdom. de Med. et Chir. Pratiques