AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER ARM. 924 •'Ti 1S39 continued. Jesse Gooderich, aged 15£, admit- ted Sept. 20. 1840 James Neal, aged IS, admitted Jan. 18. William Shearing, aged 33 (actor), admitted Feb. 4. Philip Jas. Punch, aged 14, admitted May 23. Michael Daly, aged 38, admit- ted May 20. Accident or Disease, Severe laceration of the skin and muscles of the left foot and ankle ; con- sequent on wheel of rail- carriage passing over it. Severe laceration of the skin and muscles of the upper part of the calf of the leg nnd fracture of the fibula; consequent on being caught in a tobacco-cutting engine. Operated Sept. 20 Seven hours after accident. Jan. 18. Three hours and a-half after accident. Ulceration of the leg and partial -pea equinus after compound fracture of the right leg four years Compound fracture of the riglit tursal-bones nnd inner ankle, with great laceration of the soft parts, nnd the posterior tibial artery nnd nerve torn through at ankle ; consequent on being caught between the spring and wheel of a locomotive carriage. Remarks. With circular cut; six arteries tied; wound brought together horizontally with straps of plaster ; no irritative fever. With flap from inside of leg; removed the broken fibula at its joint ; seven arteries nnd the posterior tibial vein tied, and soon after an- other artery was tied; a single strap was put on, and the wound dressed properly eight hours after. On fifteenth day some bleeding, from one of the ligatures having been dragged accident- ally ; on the next day bled again, from a little superficial vein, and at each of the two following dressings. One of the ligatures re- maining fust, a whalebone spring was put on it on the thirty-ninth day ; it came away three days after. On the fifty-first day some swelling upon the m. vastus ini emus, which he says has been coming on a few days, it fluctuated ; was left alone, and filled the whole of the front sheath of the fascia lata. On the hundredth and second day this was punctured, and a pint and a half of pus discharged. The abscess filled again, pointed at the great trochanter twelve days after, and two pints of pus dis- charged by puncture. A fortnight after, when the discharge of pus had nearly ceased, the upper part of the thigh was attacked with erysipelas, which spread over the loins and back, on the left side of the bellv, and did not subside for a week ; after this he slowly recovered. May 23. Four hours after accident. Compound frncture of led leg; the shin-bone com- minuted ; skin cut clean, but the muscles much lncerutcd; consequent on locomotive carringo- whccl pussing over. May 26. Four hours and a-half after accident. With flap of the m. gastrocncmii; four arteries tied, nnd bleeding still continuing three hours alter, five more were tied, and the face of the stump left open. Bight hours from the operation three more arteries were tied, and the wound brought together with straps of plaster. Went on well, but slowly ; excepting that one ligature would not come away, and, therefore, on the forty-seventh day, a whale- bone spring was put on; but two days after the ligature broke off short and remained. With circular cut, and side cuts; two arteries tied ; and the wound brought together at once with straps of plaster horizontally. With circular cut and side-cuts ; six arteries tied ; venous bleeding great; wound brought toge- ther at once with straps of plaster. An hour after, bleeding came on. and two more arteries were tied , but It continued, nnd seven hours after seven other arteries were tied, hive horns after, the bleeding continued to the amount of twelve ounces, and three more arteries were tied. The stump was then left open, and not dressed with plaster till twenty six hours after the operation. On the fourth day the edge of the skin was sloughy, and the whole face of the stump became so afterwards; on the fol- lowing day irritntivc fever set in. Dis- charged. Died July 18. t- fr. HI.—OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER-ARM. (Amputalio Brachii, Lat.; Amputation des Oberarmes, Germ.; Amputation du Bras, w 2724. Amputation through the upper-arm may be performed with the circular cut or with flaps, and both are performed in the same way a" ' the thigh. The patient is placed on a chair, and the upper-arm separa from the trunk, so as to form a right angle. If the amputation be perj formed in the lower third, or in the middle of the arm, the brae n^ artery must be compressed by an assistant in its upper third. If the a * putation be performed in the upper third, the subclavian artery mus compressed above the clavicle against the first rib.