838 NOSE-MAKING FROM some lines lower. If the flap fit at every part, as soon as the bleedinj ceases, its attachment by the interrupted suture must be proceeded with the threads previously introduced in the stump of the nose being passes through the corresponding edge of the flap, and finishing with that on th< septum. After the wound has been cleansed of the blood that hangs about the threads are tied in knots from above downwards, so as to produce tin closest application of the edges, and when at any part these gape asunder another stitch must be introduced. Kg v ii 9 >1 Union with the interrupted suture is the most convenient, as the twisted suture wit thin insect-pins, according to Dieffenbach’s plan, is in many parts very difficult t apply, and in withdrawing them, the easy tearing asunder of the edges ot the wourn is to be feared. Graefe’s ligature-stem, which after its application may be so separate* on the face, and each part fixed with plaster, that no tension is produced, is useless and not to be recommended. And equally so are his pieces of ivory placed beneatkj the ligatures (a). 2540. The wound in the forehead is now to be brought together, when the nature of the wound and the yielding of its edges permit, with insect ! pins and the twisted suture, and the middle of the remaining open spac* covered with a piece of soft German tinder, and with lint and sticking plaster. Advantageous as it is to draw the wound in the forehead together by uniting some o its points, for the purpuse of shortening the time of cure and lessening the scar ye however/drawing the wounded edges forcibly together should be cautioned against Also, when the frontal wound is healed merely by suppurat.ou as proposed by Graefe and properly brought together with sticking plaster, with good management there wit not he any scar, as is commonly stated. 2541. Into the apertures of the attached nose, quills, covered with Inl- and oiled, should be introduced ; or, according to Zeis, tubes made of plates of caoutchouc, which have recently come into use. 1 mgs. smeared with rose ointment (Graefe) inconvenience the patient, because they prevent the passage of the air through the nostrils. The pa®* should be kept in bed in rather a sitting posture, with his head sufficiently bowed forwards; he must be kept quiet, and his diet should be antiphlogistic. When the nose first becomes discoloured and seems fallen together, must not be considered a bad omen; turgor usually soon sets in, the na swells, reddens, becomes shiny and moderately tense. If these symp o - become severe, if the nose be bluish and hot, ,t must be treated strictly antiphlogistically, cold applications are to be made to it, and ge"^, local blood-letting by leeches or by scarification. If, as often happens, these circumstances, there be bleeding from the edges of the nasal aperture it must be kept up for tl.e due depletion of the flap. In one ca-e 1. this bleeding continue twenty-four hours, and with the ba«t resu • when the bleeding is considerable, must it be stanched by t le . 1• j of German tinder. It is more common that the nose is en 1 ^1(? by overloading than by want of blood ; but if due turgor do> not^ on, if the flap remain cold and discoloured, light aromatic ajp must be made. If gangrene ensue, it is either partial, and the r ^ attacks only a straw’s breadth of the edges of the flap, or if t],e Ta/lop, pus presses out along the whole cleft of the wound, and entire flap dies. r o-nnwrene Besides the above-mentioned causes, the occurrence of gang or depend on the tough, callous nature of the edges of the - ^ ^ r : pari.