902 COMPARISON OF THE SEVERAL MODES thus a conical surface of wound formed. The superior advantages ascribe,, to the flap-operation, to wit, a better covering of the s ump with musck, more speedy union, and therewith a shortening o le cu , circular operation just recommended, are groundless. n re er ^ the first point, Brunninghausen (a) makes a remark whmh I have observed, that the covering of the stump with muscle may indeed bt effected at the moment of union and for some time, but that after a longe? period the bone is merely covered with skin (1). On the other hand afte amputating the thigh with merely saving skin, I have never seen prot * of1 thebmie. But it must be held as an objection to flap-operations th tying the vessels which are obliquely cut through, and °ften wounded , several places, is more difficult, and the number of vessels to be tied i always greater than with the circular cut, that the wound » ^ er an therefore, if union do not take place, wasting nipping-ion i ■ ^ be«Ae feared In other respects, I do not consider the dispute as to the pieteienc. of the circular or the flap-operation of so much consequence as many dc L I'am'convinced that 'the* successful result depends not n.erelj- on, th mode of operation, but on the manner of its performance, an -1 ‘ ' the proper conduct of the after-treatment. The flap-operation, ho. eve tTXuys be considered more suitable when the amputation ,s, » firmed at the upper third of the thigh ; when the “be effected. I also admit, that in flap-operations, the knife lesJthan in circular operations, a circumstance oft^oTbone'requirin Surgery, and that, with artificial joints, or fractures fl amputation, there may be advantage m the ,nl * L (1) This observation, as regards both flap and X.‘^ t l nrrIth 0f thne after its con confirmed by every one who examines, a stump a and that it does » plete healing. Although Langenbeckc ’ ^tt n becomes corpulent, and the bo. happen iu his mode ot operating, m which the stu' P th* muscles;” I -uf bein" completely rounded by absorption, cannot p erevery well perform* however, dispute that this thickening of t ic underlying cellular tissue, and it is amputation, but depends only on the kin a d may probably bear th great mistake to refer it to the muscular mass Lasgenb 0f dissect.r hr [’hat the cure of the wound oy aggi.it cure by quick union of the muscular bolster, 1 cannot, troi y „ fhe 0id mode / I\ 1 .... 1.* dirt ck union of the muscular bolster I TO -ode Ti’vtou (cl) has only under certain conditions given preterence treatment with the circular, or does he usually prefer fatter? exclusion of the ci ( Liston is so great an advocate for flup-operation., to 11 ^ latter operatic eular that in his Elements of Surgery, he dots not c , . naDs, is soobvica giving as reasons for its omission, that “ its lnferiorUj o e thc operation is and so generally acknowledged, that detail of the different ste]^ t'he patient,d° ffi W53H '»■ burgh, 1819.—Ki.FIN, above cited, m ion ufaff id moroin . rana.. vol. *vi. p. 1- • " ie der chiniK* (e) Nosolotoe und Therapie r.mhheiten, vol. tv. P- ■ ' ^3. (d) Nene Chiron, vol. >• P-