INJECTED SOLVENTS. 553 | kv the specific effect of the alkalies on the bladder, its coats are relaxed, and so a sac is • formed by the weight of the stone. If, then, the disturbance of the digestion, which has . followed the use of alkalies, render the employment of tonic remedies necessary, whereby i the muscular activity of the bladder is again excited, the bladder contracts completely t around the stone, and encloses it in a blind pouch. Others have imagined, that by the ) alkalescence of the urine thus produced, a deposit of phosphates upon the stone takes place, by which the irritating effect upon the bladder is lessened. | [The best instance of a stone having undergone partial solution whilst in the bladder is , Liston’s case, C. f. 8, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. It was removed i by operation. “ The external surface of the calculus is very rough and uneven, and in some places is eaten into small holes, which are excavated, or, as it were, undermined at their sides. Its section shows that the concentric layers of uric acid, of which the A calculus is composed, are not continued entirely round it, but terminate abruptly at those # parts which correspond to the excavations on the surface, as if a portion of the calculus at these points had been either broken away or dissolved. That these effects, however i produced, must have taken place whilst the calculus was in the bladder, is shown by the layer of the earthy phosphates covering all its irregularities” (a).] II.—Injection of Solvents into the Bladder. 2028. Injections into the urinary bladder, which had long been recom- i mended and employed for the solution of stone, were first subjected to ii definite rules by Fourcroy and Vauquelin (b). The solution of uric . acid and urate of ammonia was to be effected by diluted alkalies ; those >! composed of phosphates, by dilute hydrochloric acid ; and those of oxa- late of lime, by dilute nitric acid. With the view of acting more ' powerfully upon the stone, without subjecting the bladder itself to the i irritating and solvent materials, it has been endeavoured to enclose the f stone in a bag which could withstand the effect of the injection ; for | which purpose Percy, Civiale, and Leroy (c) have made some propo- ; sals, and Robinet (d) has recommended a peculiar apparatus, by which '■ the stone may be enclosed in a bag made of intestine, and the injection made by means of a catheter with a double passage. ! Phospbatic stones of triple phosphate and lime, are said not to be dissolved by solu- | »uons of alkaline bicarbonates, but broken up and converted into powder. Oxalate of Mime stones are liable to the same change. (Willis.) A. Ube recommends the use I' ° iuPPunc acKb (carbonate of lithia,) from which, however, according to Garrod’s and Keller’s experiments, but little advantage can be expected. Berzelius who ’ ftas expressed himself favourably as to the possibility of the success of injections, and ■ nas recommended frequent trials, proposes a lukewarm mixture, of one part of car- J IT P°tash and nine hundred parts of water, with some mucilage: and in cases where the stone consists of uric acid, a solution of borax. B 20:29. With the purpose of effecting the solution of the stone by the p.xmtinued flow of a large quantity of water, or of some chemical solvent ctrcithuisen (e) has proposed an apparatus, and Cloquet ( f) has 1 ecommended again the double-passaged catheter previously proposed by 203°. Opinions as to these modes of treatment differ as much as I \Z9 Tn mternal irCTtmerT There are sti11 but few facts which - rove the efficacy of this plan of proceeding. The frequent variety n-eat rih^T f St°ne mUSt "ot indeed be considered as a very LReat obstacle to this treatment, as, partly by the nature of the urine, i'T (n\ . ~ 1 (?? T,W°'‘’s Catalogue, part i. p. 92. »>. 7ft, Mem°,res de Ia Soc- '1’Emulat., vol. ii. . ___ B («) Above cited t> «8 £?) ^lib. Mod’.-Chir. Zeit.’ Cof.'’i. p. 289. 1813. ’ * , . —I KXTOR; in same, vol. ii. p. 94. (/) In Leroy, above cited, pi. ii. f. 7. (d) Report, gen. d’Anat. et Physiol, pathol. et de Clin. Chir., vol. i. Paris, 1826.