OPERATION OF TYING SUPERIOR THYROIDEAL ARTERY. 657 2174. This operation was first proposed, in way of question, by Charles Gr. Lange («), afterwards by Jones (5), especially applied by Spangen- behg to aneurysmal broncliocele, and first undertaken by William Blizard (e), in whose cases great diminution of the size of the swelling1 ensued, but the patient died of hospital-gangrene. Waltiier ((/) per- .. formed the operation successfully ; also Coates (e), Wedemeyer (/), ci> IamEson (g), Earle (h), Beck (*), and I, myself, in six instances. sr Fritze (j), Zang (/e), and Langenbeck (7) have met with fatal cases J rom bleeding, and inflammatory symptoms. Graefe (ni) and myself (n) m tave operated without any permanent result. 2175. Tying the superior thyroideal artery is performed in the follow- ing1 manner. The patient seated on a high stool, opposite the light, in- clines his head to the contrary side on which the operator stands, and " 'ests it on the breast of an assistant. At the point where the artery is elt pulsating, the skin having been moderately stretched to prevent any old, a cut is to be made through it, which beginning a little below the ngle of the lower jaw and rather to its outside, is carried inwards and lownwards along the inner edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus; and a second ut divides the m. platysma, myoides in the same direction, the blood i.vhich flows into the wound being sopped up by an assistant with a moist ■ ponge. The tip of the left forefinger is passed into the wound to ascer- fiin most accurately the situation of the artery. A director is then pushed hto the cellular tissue, covering the artery and the tissue divided with the istoury; after which, it must be endeavoured to isolate the vessel with he blunt end of the director, with the handle of the scalpel or with the nger; but the use of any cutting instrument is to be avoided. The artery laving been laid bare is now brought a little up, and a single round licra- ire carried with Deschamps’ needle about it. and tied with two sirm-lo ire carried with Deschamps’ needle about it, and tied with two single .-,nots. The ends of the thread lying out of the wound are fixed with a ■|iece of plaster, and the edges being brought together with strips of i j aster, some wadding, and a compress are applied, and the whole kept in i dace by a circular bandage. |2£e_ l5™® bai:® of *e artTejy,is rendered easy by the upper edge of the broncliocele re with t? co?sl.de!'ably- If ‘he m. omohyoideus, as it passes above the artery, inter- sier to ti hteJS° ? n, °.f the V,essd’ u niay be advantageously cut through. It is T ho‘I 1 artery between this muscle and its entrance into the gland than above at it woo’ °"eVer’ oum ’.111 one case in which I tied the artery above this muscle s close toThp rtf aS-Y,ng 11 beloWl A branch of the glossopharyngeal nei-ve, which 1 iDlies tn?h ?|th)r-°.ld frtery’ must be taken care of’ and drawn outwards. This also r, e lieatiire k t,lyroicleal veins- and ‘he laryngeal branches of the thyroideal artery " an°US ProP<>si‘ions have been made as to the mode of finding the superior A* >^mby70Lio dt Strurais et lScroPhulis. p. 16. I tur^ | JftatlSe 1,16 Process employed by I od d and “rPTS,n? A1’® H““°"li«ge from - ‘heICure , AfteriC!<- nnd on the ,lse t cl a!, ,,1 &Cl London, 180.1. hvo. E 2 AU'AN Hurns, above cited, n. 20.1. * :»e B n rT-T*1- ir*ns'’ voi. x. p 312. isio. A‘ii.pA85 °Ka Neue “ibliothek, vol. iii. American Medical Recorder, vol. v. p. 11G. Ap.ICd0wedi^1 “d Pll-vsical vol. Pl 2011 Sept.1" 1826:*' vOL. II. i) Above cited. ..?) Hedenus, above cited, p. 255. (A) Verungliickter Versucli, eine Kropfee- scnwulst durch Unterbindung der Arteria tliy- reoidea superior zu lieilen. Mitgetheilt van Dr. Horen• in Rvst’s Magazin, vol. vii. p. 315. CO Neue Bibliothek, vol. iv. part iii. p. 558. ynj Hedenus, above cited, p. 255. (n) Weissfi.ao, Dissert., Animadversiones de Struma aneurysmatica et de Arteriis Glandulas t nyreoidenj superioribus lijjandis. Iloidelb., 18t3. dto. Chelius, liemerkungen iiber die Struma vasculosa, und die Unterbindung der obcren Scnuddrusen-Schlagadern; in Heidelberg, kli- nisch. Annalen, vol. i. p. 208. 2 u