371 STRICTURE OF TIIE URETHRA. ,-} jrtainty in the application of the caustic, and that the cure is quicker t< id more constant than by dilatation ; that the pain is less as experience ; roves; that the hardened part which forms the stricture is very little insitive, and that in the cauterization there is only pain when the sound nt of the urethra is touched with the caustic. These circumstances are iK ie more weighty, the older and tougher the strictures are, as only in re- I .nt cases, and when the stricture is easily extensible, and especially if soiort, can they be soon cured with the dilator. In strictures which are a }ry close, and also not very long, dilatation may, indeed, be of some rvice, but the cure is very tedious, and not so radical as by cauter- liation. The preference given to bougies, because long, and several s'i pictures can be treated together, applies equally well to the improved & odes of treatment with caustic. Also in great sensibility of the urethra, >j which the presence of a bougie can well be borne, and the above- ascribed symptoms {par. 1686) are to be dreaded, the sensibility is often It uch blunted by cauterization. These advantages, however, even in the st modes of applying caustic, are not to be received as general and iff iconditioiml; for even with them severe inflammatory symptoms and si lse passages may be produced, especially if the stricture be seated at wn e hind part of the urethra. The rapidity with which cauterization a -mgs about the cure, is counterbalanced by the transient nature of its £. suit, as the seat of the scar in the urethra, after complete subsequent ( latation, has always a decided disposition to contract, by which the most fiiibborn form of stricture is produced. I have seen in many instances, a id even in patients who have been cauterized by Ducamt himself, i lapses, the cure of which was exceedingly difficult. Although the dilata- 5 )n with the bougies is more tedious than cauterization, yet I must assign 1 them the greater certainty of a permanent cure. But after the natural * idth of the urethra has been restored the introduction of bougies must i; ! repeated from time to time ; and it must be especially noticed that in a ■r ricture, which has been many years forming, and has been of long con- 9: auance, the canal of the urethra is not in the course of a few weeks to be stored to its natural condition. It is especially not attending to these 2- rcumstances, that in dilatation, lays the foundation of relapses. Only very old hard strictures, in which dilatation cannot be effected, or is | O' painful and intolerable, do I consider cauterization to be indicated. t h Also in fungous degeneration of the mucous membrane of the prostrate gland, which ^urs in long-continued strictures ( par. 1675) when, besides a copious secretion of mucus, rrownd ueshy lumps is discharged with the urine, and the urethral canal is not ; 1LaLLE,man;d (®) has touched every degenerated mucous membrane with his ina in order to decide on its vitality. ,g.P°“TtJ’e employment of caustic in the treatment of strictures Astley Cooper i nrod, ™tU*le of caust,c has certainly keen very much abused, and in many instances Dlovml ,v ♦ TT ";orKt consequences, and I would say that it never ought to be •Khiml.T Z-? the :8tnct“re 18 accompanied with fistula in perinceo, and that entionofvT-5 nhen, ther<Tan bu no apprehension of the caustic occasioning nB ™ 1 “rine> wh,ch it has done when injudiciously employed.” (p. 224.) ver resort fi T7 US® the arme(* bougie m my own practice, and I atment in l h firSt lnstan,ce- My reasons for preferring the other methods of ism, it aiS() vpr‘ ry ca8^' are these -.—first, although the caustic often relieves the Patient to make wit1!!? U' f ^ue’ ,that iu many instances it enables a retention ofj.nf Wlth more facility; but in many instances, also, it brings ' the caustic I ' hffimorrhage 18 a more frequent consequence of the than of the common bougie, and it sometimes takes place to a very (a) Above cited, p. 76. 2 b 2