TREATMENT OF POLYPS 744 fB 'It 1 \ I fruitless, and even then with great caution. For this purpose, a metalli tube, wrapped in wetted linen, is passed into the opening up to the mid> of the after-product, and a trocar, at wldte heat, thrust through it. If tli unnatural vegetation be by these means stopped, and if hard granulatior. sprout up, they may be treated with astringents till the scarring is completer 2361. The object of boring into the maxillary cavity below the eminen . v- tia molaris, and above the third or fourth molar tooth, is the same as tha • for boring in the fossa canina; and the indications are also the same * The patient having been placed as already described, and the corner of th o. mouth drawn down, the gum and periosteum are divided at the part deter mined, and the bony wall is bored obliquely from below upwards, air from without inwards, with the perforator. The further proceeding is th- same as in boring in the fossa canina. 2362. Boring into the maxillary sinus through the palate, when th palate is much altered by disease, and another situation cannot be conve niently chosen, or at any one part, where the cavity is very thin or burs through, is easily managed from what has been already said on the differen modes of boring; the after-treatment is also guided by the same rule. 2363. For boring into the maxillary sinus upon the cheek, Weinholi proposes several modes of proceeding. If the disease be blennorrhcea, ant loosening up of the mucous membrane, with narrowing and closing of thr 1 aperture, in which the object is to do away with the secretive activity of this * mucous membrane, the needle-trephine (a) must be applied on the bone and an aperture made, rather obliquely upwards, through the distendeo< cheek into the maxillary sinus, four lines from the zygomatic pro cess towards the nose, and the same distance from the lower edge o. the orbit, and then as it is rotated, the front wall of the cavity is piercedr The perforator may also be applied with the same purpose, but insteac of the needle-trephine after having cut into the cheek. A plug is then* introduced into the opening, and fastened to the temple by a thread; il may also afterwards be smeared with red precipitate ointment, and a solu- tion of nitrate of silver, or properly diluted tincture of capsicum may be injected, till the mucous membrane is destroyed (par. 2357.) '2364. If the after-products, polyps, steatomes, fatty growths and the like, or the secretion of the mucous membrane are to be destroyed, the needle-trephine armed with a thread in its eye should be introduced at _ ® appointed place, and whilst the handle is a little raised, the point is caIT1 so downwards through the maxillary si?ius, that it penetrate the lw “ some lines distant from the third molar tooth. In doing this, the to be protected from injury by the forefinger of the left hand, and thepoi of the trephine thrust so far out, that the thread in its eye can be reac t with a hook. The trephine is now withdrawn, and the thread left be 1 > by which either a firm cord or a plug of tape is introduced, and ,ll'^e to be smeared with remedies proper for destroying the after-pro*'11 • In fatty swellings the string should be frequently drawn backwards , forwards, and moistened with oil of turpentine, and as much as P° of the mass removed with Davi el’s spoon. For the destruction o | J or sarcomatous degenerations, the plug should be smeared with a - of lunar caustic, of bichloride of mercury, with red precipitate w and the like. To prevent the acrid fluid escaping into the .]it that part of the string hanging in it a thread should be attached, ai (a) Idccn iiber die krankhaftcn Mctamorphoaen dcr Ilighmorshohle, fig- !• til #1