339 STRICTURE OF TIIE RECTUM. Rnto the stricture. Properly prepared wax bougies, of from one to three „ nd half inches in circumference (Salmon) are the best. In introducing hese bougies the following rules are to be observed, according to the it afferent heights at which the stricture is situated. The bougie, curved ccording- to the curvature of the rectum, and well oiled, with the convexity Corresponding with the first curve of the gut, and directed towards the &acrum, is thrust in upwards and backwards, in this direction, to the ex- tent of two inches. After a little waiting, the bougie is intx-oduced still ligher, from three to three and a half inches above the second curve of "i he rectum; the inner extremity of the bougie still remains in the hollow if the sacrum, and the outer end is inclined to the left side. If the bougie ajpe introduced still further, its direction must be changed, the outer end I ieing raised from left to right in a semi-circle, and pushed forwards at the t ame time, and in this manner it may be introduced yet four inches further. ■ f the instrument have to be passed into the sigmoid flexui-e its outer end l oust be pressed gently down, and pushed upwards, till it be completely parried in. The deeper the instrument is introduced the more care must ■iite taken, lest dangerous irritation, or even perforation, of the sigmoid lexure should occur. There is, commonly, pain over the whole belly, i x.nd violent forcing. The contraction of the sphincter causes the most difficulty; the bougie, therefore, of different length, according to the seat f stricture, is to be well passed into the rectum, and there retained by neans of a bandage attached to it. The patient should keep quiet in bed, ; i.nd the bougie allowed to remain in, not longer than from six to ten iiinutes, nor so long, if the patient complain of severe pain. Its introduc- : ion is to be repeated every two or three days, its size increased, as also the * ™e it should remain, according to the patient’s irritability, but every ’iolent irritation should be carefully avoided. I have used elastic bougies vith a dilator, as in narrowings of the oesophagus, ( par. ] 606,) which I >nce introduced into a stricture, and repeated every two days, as dilatation, continued, for sometime, easily sets up considerable iritation, and even becomes unmanageable. In strictures, situated high up in the rectum, •die elastic or wax bougies are the only remedies which can be employed. ; [Brodie observes:—“ In a great number of cases, where the disease is far advanced, rou cannot resort to the use of the bougie in the first instance, or, if you do, it must be • mployed in combination with other remedies. It will be necessary to lessen the irri- abihty of the bowel by the introduction of an opiate suppository every night, and a ' K ' “Penent taken in the morning. The patient may take a combination of caustic llr.f/lth copaiba; half a dram of balsam of copaiba, fifteen minims of liq. potass. wZTmc\0t mucilaee of gum ai-abic, and about nine drams of carraway water. A ittYf^0 f cS,C°mp0Sltl0n,n,ay be taken three times a~day with very great advantage. Hiichl’fcn! E<g<Tare'road’ recommended tome a decoction of Achillea millefolium, ■unces of thl TPu,yed m *ome °f these ,cases with manifest advantage. About two lint, of wWi At\!‘l may be put lnt0 a pint and a balf of 'Tater an(1 boiled down to a With i. ,Patient may take a wine-glass full three times a-day.” (p. 29.') inestion how f t0.lbe US? °f bouSies *u stricture of the rectum, Lawrence says“ It is a Sure 8°SV e StnCtUre T bC rdieved by the hitroduction of bougies. When the vhen you can tW 7 t0 tbe a”“f that J011 can examine it with your finger, and [he bowel W>,L e efore’ ascertain with considerable certainty something of the state of Natation’willL>iU Ca“ a8certalII> '>}' s«cb means, how far the mechanical irritation of 'he urethra hot m.,0™6'/011 may cautiously use bougies, as in the case of stricture of Its in that case miiSt emp °y tjle(n.under the same kind of restrictions and cautions t>f the rectum than ; ’ /°[l bn,d lt; nccessary to be even more cautious in the case v’°u meet with n Vum ,at of [ne urethra, inasmuch as you are so much uncertain, when the gut. Yon rn., t1UU T’ w. 't ler y°u are pressing against strictured or sound parts of iou must employ instruments which will not be likely to injure the bowel. z 2