782 EXTIRPATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND. the carotid artery itself, which is often completely enclosed in the paroti gland. If the Surgeon operate with due care, and with intimate knowledg- of the parts, he may almost always avoid injuring the trunks of thes arteries; even, however, if one or other be wounded, fatal bleeding ma be prevented by one or other of the under-mentioned remedies. Numerou twigs from the third branch of the fifth pair, the communicating facial and from the third pair of cervical nerves must indeed be cut through ii removing the parotid, but the trunk of the facial nerve is not necessdB divided (a). The removal of a scirrhous tumour of the parotid gland is always mos difficult and dangerous, because it is firmly connected with the surrounding parts, and if any of the disease be left, no cure can be expected. Iii induration and sarcoma the tumour is more movable, the surrounding capsule may therefore be left alone, and does not at all interfere. Allan Burns (b) believes that in all cases where the parotid has been held to havr been removed, it was not the gland itself, but a diseased conglobate gland, of which then are commonly two accompanying the parotid, the one under the lobe of the parotid, an- the other on its middle, and lying opposite the division of the external carotid, into maxil lary and temporal arteries. The former is not so deep, and is simply covered with th‘ cervical fascia and the lobe of the parotid. Burns attempted the removal of the parotic on the dead body, but even there failed to remove all the diseased substance (c). 2437. For the extirpation of the parotid gland, it is most convenient to lay the patient upon a narrow table covered with a mattress, in such way; on the healthy side, with the head a little raised, that the light may readily fall upon the swelling. If the tumour be not very large, the skin covering it not connected with it, and not diseased, an assistant fixes the swelling on each side with his fingers, thrusting it upwards at the same time, and rendering the skin tense; a longitudinal cut must then be made through the skin from the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. If the swelling be larger, a crucial cut must be made; and if the skin be attached and diseased, two semilunar cuts must be made and connected above and below, including the diseased skin. The in. platysma myoides is to be next cut through, and all the spouting vessels tied. The skin must now be separated from the surface of the whole swelling; the fibrous capsule opened sufficiently, and the tumour shelled out with the fingers or with the handle of the scalpel. The blade of the knife must be only used with the greatest caution, for the purpose of separating the firmer connexions. During the operation, an assistant must constantly sprinkle cold water to keep the wound clear of blood, on which account, also, every spouting vessel should be immediately tied. In sarcoma, the substance of the swelling is often not of a sufficient firmness to permit it being at once shelled out with the finger; it often tears, and the several parts must be removed piecemeal. When the fibrous capsule adheres to the gland, and cannot be freed, the separation of the tumour is exceedingly difficult, and requires the greatest caution. 2438. When on separating the swelling at its hinder part, a very firm connexion #f it to the carotid artery running behind, or through it" substance, is perceived, a ligature may be applied round the tumour, after isolating as much as possible ; or the trunk of the carotid artery may W tied, and the removal completed (</). When the tumour dips deeply, an <•„) Kylt., above cited. (e) See also B«BAnn, Mtt’*di”n^8,w^'iwas! (fA Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, parotide et.dc la region parotidienne, t p V7> 6 que ces Maladies reclament. 1’ans, 1SH1. * ' (if) Zano, Operationen, vol. ii. p. CIS.