11ANULA. 404 plexus and the deep position of the windpipe are best avoided. Even if the foreign body be lower down in the windpipe, it may be either brought near the opening, by breathing or coughing, or it may be with proper care taken out with a blunt curved director or with the forceps. If it lie found fixed in the larynx, the cut may even be extended from the crico- thyroid ligament along the middle of the thyroid cartilage. By this mode of proceeding, then, the object of the operation is best attained in all the conditions of the disease which have been mentioned {par. 17o6); and a deeper cut into the windpipe would be required only in those cases where the situation of a foreign body in the oesophagus, or other tumours, r which compress the windpipe may render it necessary. m According to Allan Burns (a), the position of the thyroid gland should be determined hy the cricoid cartilage, and in children the space between this gland and theupper part of the breast-bone is great, therefore tracheotomy is easier. 1764 The varieties observed by Allan Burns in the vessels of the j neck always renders careful observation necessary during the course of the operation He found the arteria innommata near the under edge of the thyroid cartilage, and even the carotid itself crossing the windpipe. Second Section.-OF UNNATURAL COLLECTIONS OF NATURAL PRODUCi o. A. IN THEIR PROPER CAVITIES AND RECEPTACLES. I.—OF RANULA. Louis, Sur les Tumeurs Salivaires ; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. m. p. 462. Ibid., Sur les Tumeurs Sublinguales ; in same, vol. v. p. 420. Murray, De tumoribus salivalibus. Upsal, 1/85. ... • Breschet, Considerations sur la tumeur nominee Ranula ou GrenomUe I Journal Univers. des Sc. Medic., 1817, vol. vu. p. -96 . Annaleo,* Reisinger, Bemerkungen iiber die Froschgeschwulst; in his Baier scl - V°Kell, Beob'achtungen iiber FroschgeschwiRste; in von Graeme und von Wallhek's Journal, vol. xxvi. p. 588. r, •//-«. \ 1765. Ranula {Ranula, Lat.; FroschgeschwiRste Germ, Fr.) is a tumour beneath the tongue, sometimes soft and fluctuating, times hard and firm, at first attended with little portion as it enlarges, it interferes with chewit occupies speech. Should the swelling attain a very considerable size, ^ the greater part of the mouth, thrusts the tongue upwards and to & occasionally also the front teeth outwards, and at the same tun* ^ swelling beneath the jaw. In this state the symptoms 6„d very marked, the swelling itself becomes painful and may ^ ■ & downwards, forming beneath the jaw and on u.e ^ for an neck a very considerable swelling, which may be easily mistake abscess. tit 9*1 a iscess. , „ alarms (a) Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p-