THE LATERAL OPERATION (RAU’S.) 579 ,{, ,nd glory, that by his own skill, ingenuity, and industry, he made that addition by s • tvhich alone treatment, otherwise uncertain, dangerous, and even hurtful, was rendered & sure, safer, much better, and more excellent than others. He added the catheter, as it is railed, which he had deeply grooved on its curved side ; this he passed by the urinary a; oassage into the bladder, and applied its convexity to that part of the bladder which was * o be cut, so as to enable him to find it externally, to make the cut through the skin ;i ipon it, to direct the knife towards it, to cut the bladder upon it with certainty, and to ii ntroduce the forceps directly, just as was wont to be done by the great apparatus.” Not r+J -ousidering the common catheter sufficiently curved, Rad had “ the curve of his made » . little greater at the termination of its straight part and the beginning of the groove, rad at the end of the curve the beak was made straighter and longer, so that the knife i i aiight be carried backwards upon it, and a sufficiently large wound made in the bladder.” laving introduced the catheter, he so placed it that “ its grooved curve resting near the w leek, was applied to that part of the bladder to be cut, on the left side, and a little below fend behind the neck; which done, the catheter was gently pressed on that part, and the <: thumb moved externally over the soft part of the buttock, to the left of the anus i9 jietween it and the great tuberosity of the haunch-bone. Then gently inclining the 9.f;atheter towards his right thumb, which he pressed from the right and upwards, he i bund externally, and noted the spot opposite the curve of the catheter, at which the a i rst cut was to be. This was made on the left of the anus, about a thumb or two fingers’ itU readth from it towards the ischial tuberosity, not nearer, lest the rectum should be rounded; nor farther from it, lest the knife should need be thrust too obliquely inwards the catheter. * * * The spot found, he first divided merely the skin and b little of the fat, with a straight cut of sufficient length, from above downwards and | intwards, that is towards the ischial tuberosity, so as to get away from the rectum; but t ie did not take much trouble about this wound. He then passed his right thumb or forefinger into the wound, with his nail towards the catheter, which was kept as closely i? 35 possible to that part of the bladder to be cut into, again seeking for that instrument, ft:jnd having found it, he withdrew his thumb and carefully carried in the point of his not, however, too high, and cautiously directed it towards the catheter, which he m iid just before found with his thumb, and then gently cut through whatever he met. * a order that he might not easily wound the rectum, he in general first gently passed his" u mger into it, so that he might ascertain its position and avoid it. When by thus cutting Bpjently he had nearly reached the bladder, he passed the thumb or forefinger into the ound, again seeking for the catheter, and replacing it if disturbed by the patient jipssing about. * * * Keeping the catheter applied on the left to the part to be cut IKP then earned the knife cautiously from the right through the wound, not cutting with 1'' }ut ‘ha‘ its point might directly reach the catheter. He then attentively and ajoutiously thrust the point of the knife into the groove of the catheter; and when he f. lew by the feel that the point of the knife and the catheter touched, and by moving it on eit|ler s‘de’ tllat the11 it was retained within the groove, then moving the knife •refully and firmly up and down, he cut rather downwards, and cautiously accommodat- ?’g th«|catheter to the knife, he cut into the bladder with a moderate-sized wound which if.,; made to descend from above outwards by placing the catheter, which was obviously , t)?f?ary,t0 Prevent injury of the neighbouring parts. He then took care that the 1 i. neter should not recede from the wound m the bladder, and havius; introduced bis S1f/;^ne^'-lyldif0VereJd -the extent of the wound aud the naked catheter ; especially ‘nought it had moved its place, it being necessary that the groove of the catheter IEj* be bare at the wound of the bladder, so that the male conductor might be without 2 hPnTd T° U- -W,hen a11 was aeain right, he took the male conductor with S t '£ the ^n a t?‘!V£ y’ foully and stcadiIy Press«l it forwards, so that it might : irdneJs oftC 1 u tb%catheter without being intercepted, which the resistance and I aCh ot0hllViatteVf0nn,ed1hT °f'i Bemg thus assured, he thrust the conductor I inine hi L ^ S d!'T th? cathetcr in proportion, at the same time gently in- ! 2 a dle h? the ^t. The object of thus doing was that the curve of the catheter I ZZTreltZ -erund 0f th^ladd!r int0 its cavity> aad at the same time the con- I ' <1 certainll 1 V the groove of the catheter, and pushed forwards might more safely I'd if he foumWh CaVlty ‘he h'adder. Hethen moved the conductor gently aboufi ! |at it rested t ^ ca‘h«ter> ,and especially the stone, he more certainly knew l with the ffrpat nrv ^ ^ie rest the operation was performed, left withdrew PtrratU*l’ f°r r'e r,ght,hand held the male conductor in the bladder, & male Eductor anda t er fT* “ V ^^ethra; then the left hand grasped ‘dder. He theTlieveV^ Vi8 *rrne,d the female’ gu'ded by the male, into the cn cleverly held both conductors apart with the fingers of the left hand, 2 v 2