64 DIVISION OP STRICTURE IN INGUINAL RUPTURE. the sac with the point of the forefinger. If the hernial sac he thin, it can be torn, by seizing it with the forceps ; but if it be very thick, frequently a superficial layer only must be divided, by which it is rendered more transparent and rather bluish. In dividing the stricturing part, in well determined external or oblique inguinal rupture, the cut must be made outwards, towards the iliac spine, but in the internal or direct inguinal rupture, upwards and inwards; in those cases where it is doubtful of which kind the rupture is, directly upwards, parallel with the white line, so that the cut may form a right angle with the body of the share-bone. After the complete return of the intestine, the forefinger should be carried through the inguinal canal, into the belly, to ascertain that it is clear and that no portion of intestine remain in it. In imperfectly developed external inguinal rupture, if the strangulation be at the internal ring, the skin, the superficial fascia and the tendon of the external oblique muscle must be divided in the direction of the inguinal canal, outwards and upwards, and the seat of stricture cut into outwards and upivards. (1) On account of the circumstances already mentioned, (par. 1192,) it is always of importance before operating on an old scrotal rupture on the right side, to consider whether the rupture be formed by the cacttm or the beginning of the colon. Besides the size and long continuance of the swelling, its knotty condition excites suspicion, which is probable, if the rupture have been slowly produced. So long as it was in the ! groin it was returnable, but no longer ; at least it cannot he perfectly returned so soon as it has descended info the scrotum, when the patient, after digestion is ended, and a short time before the bowels are relieved, feels dragging and pressure in the rapture, as well j as frequently colicky pains, which subside after going to stool, and if there be in the right iliac region a hollow corresponding to the size of the rupture. In this rupture the j stricture only is to be divided, and the adherent intestine covered with compresses, j dipped in a mucilaginous fluid, by which in general it gradually returns into the belly. The various opinions upon the most proper direction for the cut into the stricture, in inguinal rupture, in order to avoid injuring the epigastric artery, have only by the correct : anatomical knowledge of its different origin, attained the proper explanation. The direction of the cut obliquely upwards and outwards, as proposed by Louis, Morand, | Sharp, Gunz, Pott, Bell, Sabatier, and others, is so far the most proper, as in external or oblique inguinal rapture the artery cannot be injured, and it is by far the most common, {par. 1194.) As in the direction of the cut obliquely upwards and inwards I towards the navel, according to Heister, Garengeot, Le Dran, Richter, Mohren- • 1 heim, Mursinna, and others; or inwards towards the symphysis, after Ludwig and i Ij Seiler, only in iuternal or direct inguinal rupture can the artery be avoided, but in E external rupture it can and must be wounded, if it he not granted that thereby really I only the internal pillar of the external inguinal ring shall be cut into. The direction ■ of the incision directly upwards, proposed by Franco, Dionis, Petit, Camper, Rouge- - I mont, and others, was for that occasion the safest, and Asti.ey Cooper (above cited,) ' j still considers it the most proper and safe in all cases. Chopart and Desault gave B the most important advice, always to make the cut towards the side opposite the position ■ m of the spermatic cord, advice, which the knowledge of the corresponding relative position I of the spermatic cord and spermatic artery, and a presumption of the various kinds of t ■ inguinal raptures, renders clear (2). S2B [(2) I do not think Chopart and Desault’s counsel is the best that can be taken, if-t| it mean anything more than a caution not to divide the spermatic vessels, which no one; B wmuld do but by the most gross carelessness Practically speaking, however, I can say.' | that 1 do not recollect having had or seen a single instance of operation interfered withbl by the position of the spermatic vessels, presuming that no pupil of Cline or Cooper I would think of dividing the stricture in strangulated inguinal rapture in any other >| direction than directly upwards, and neither to the right hand nor to the left. ForiJ whatever may be said, it is impossible, I believe, to distinguish, without actual dissection, I whether an inguinal rupture be oblique or direct, and therefore any deviation from the ■ directly upward division is hazardous.—J. F. S.] 1209. Congenital inguinal rupture, in regard to its treatment, agrees1:® (/i) Memoir.