916 OF EXCISION OF THE WRIST-JOINT. (c) Above cited, p. 678. Jaeger, in the absence of fistulous passages, always lays bare the ulnar nerve: hi; I ascertains its position by feeling on the inner condyle, and then carefully makes a cut two jj or two and a half inches long, upon it, of which the middle is upon the condyle; thetij opens the sheath of the nerve, takes hold of and lifts it up with a blunt hook, separates i' :t| from the soft parts, lifts it over the inner condyle, and there has it held fast with a blunt | hook. With the left hand he now grasps the fore-arm, and, by bending it towards the; upper, renders the m. triceps tense, cuts through it with a strong scalpel, a quarter of ana inch above the olechranon from the inner to the outer condyle, and opens the joint, the.-, bending of the arm being still increased, the lateral ligaments and skin upon the con-of dyles are still farther cut through. The further progress of the operation depends otj the extent of the caries ; if but one condyle be affected on its joint surface or on itsts outer side, the longitudinal cut must be continued upwards to the extent of the caries A in caries of the whole cubital process, a longitudinal cut of an inch and a half or two inches length, must be carried from each side to the pit of the condyles, the flap dis- sected back to the part where the bone is to be sawn through, and the operation finished'j according to Moreau’s method. If the cubital process be healthy, the lower longitu-.( dinal cut of from one and a half to two inches must be made from the inside of the olechra-A non and the outer part of the head of the radius. If the upper cut be already made, ii :j must be continued downwards to the requisite extent, and the lower flap dissected fronn:| the ulna. If the radius be carious, a simple cut must be carried over its condyle tc the extent of the caries. • i J After excision of the elbow-joint the radius and ulna always remain separate, al-. though they are near together and held by the soft parts. The hand retains its power and mobility, and the fore-arm its most important motions. Every thing, however,' depends on the circumstance, whether the insertion of the in. biceps to the radius, and of the ni. brachialis interims to the ulna can be preserved. Jaeger s case, however, shows that motion of the fore-arm is possible, when even the insertion of the >«- biceps has been destroyed. [Crampton first performed this operation in Dublin, in February, 1823; but no account of it was published till 1827. Syme gave (a) an account in 1829 of three cases - in which he had performed it.—J. F. S.] III.—EXCISION OF THE WRIST-JOINT. (Excisio Badio-carpalis, Lat.; Ausrottung im Handgelenke, Germ.; Resection du Poignet, Fr.) 2836. For the excision of the lower part of the radius and ulna, first' performed by Orred and Moreau, Roux (h) gives the following direc- tions. Two longitudinal cuts are made, one along the outer edge of the radius and the other along the inner edge of the ulna, as near as possible to its inner edge, to the wrist-joint, without injuring the vessels or nerv«s;- a transverse cut is then made across the palmar and dorsal surfaces ot the arm, avoiding the tendons. The lower end of the radius and ulna arei then laid bare, sawn through, and the diseased carpal bones remo\ et. According to Jaeger (e), in excision of the ulna at the wrist-jouR, the arm must be placed on its radial side, so that its ulnar side be the operator, the hand bent in the opposite direction, the skin made tense with the left thumb and forefinger, and a cut begun upon the stjP. process, and carried up two inches on the outer side of the ulna. , the lower end of this another cut is made, from three-quarters to an in long, through the skin on the dorsal surface of the joint, the flap dissec off and the tendon of the m. cxtetisor carpi ulnaris lifted up with a o hook. The ulna is now laid bare on the upper and under surface, joint cut into above and on the side, whilst the hand is bent ratti^^ the other side. The skin and tendons are then held back w tha hook, and either a small IIey’s saw or a phalangeal saw applied * ^ upper sound part of the bone, which is then sawn through. 1 be („) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxxi. p. 25t5. 1829. (fc) Above cited, p. W.