OF EXCISION 972 (n) Jaeokb, above cited, p. 584. tied, the thickened ligaments and capsule of the joint, together with al superfluous skin, removed, the whole wound cleared of blood, and caret! fully examined both with the finger and the eye to ascertain whether an; v tiling hurtful remains, that it may be removed. In determining the boundary of the diseased bone, not merely must the extent oci the caries be considered, but also the extent to which it has been separated from the peri-L osteum, for if that part be left, caries or necrosis is quickly set up on it. In such case-ii the cut must, therefore, be extended into the firmly-attached periosteum, and the bon< imist be sawn through there. If the caries run into the spongy end of the bone, a plate o u bone of corresponding depth to the caries must be sawn off, in which case the applicant | of the white hot cautery-iron, according to Moreau, generally increases the necrosis, anty delays the cure (Jaeger.) If the bone be diseased more extensively than was sup;-j] posed, amputation is generally required; however, in regard to this, everything dependi on whether a large piece of bone can be removed from each or from only one of the bones of a joint, as well also as on the condition of the joint; thus, for instance, at the shoulder, five or five and a half inches of the upper-arm-bone have been successfully re Of the numerous instruments which have been recommended for removing the endfi; of boues (a), the most convenient and applicable for all cases are, the common large anca small bow saw, the knife saw, Hey’s saw of different sizes, Jeffray s, (Aitken s ) B. Heine’s chain saw, the bone-shears and nippers, variously-formed chisels, which.: although they jar both the bone and the neighbouring joint and increase the pain;.) are often indispensable. Sometimes it may be convenient to divide the bone partiaUyHl with the saw, and then to use the nippers, with which the piece of bone can be> CaThe \VickIinK of the blood from the wound is commonly stopped by exposure to the air, or with cold water ; but if it come from a spongy and thickened tissue, this must be* removed and cold water or some other styptic must be applied. Bleeding from a bone,., when it’cannot be checked by pressure with a sponge dipped in cold water ''equirei pressure with German tinder, with lint dipped in spirit of wine, or with little balls o wax. Severe venous bleeding, if it do not ci ase after the removal of the tourniquet, and after repeated inspiration and expiration, requires the application of cold water, or some*, other styptic If the principal trunk of the artery or vein be wounded, which can oidj be doim by awkwardness or carelessness, it must be tied; but, in general, amputation will be necessary. 2829. In applying the dressing, which, according to Jaeger, is best- done after the patient has got to bed, the limb must be laid on a pi Ho' * covered with oiled cloth, the ends of the bones put into proper place, either touching or not, and the edges of the wound brought together with i the interrupted suture. Only when the teguments are so very thin that they would lie cut through by the pressure of the suture-threads, should com presses of lint be applied to support them (Syme.) The most depen^Bj part of the wound must be left open for the escape of he d.schaJB The wound must be covered with lint, the part carefully raised and another oiled cloth with Scultetus’s bandage, compresses, and lint, la upon the pillow, the limb placed on it in the position most proper lor its • future use, the several parts of the dressing applied, and, if necessary, j secured with a suitable splint. Jaeger’s practice, however, of surround- ing the limb with compresses dipped in cold water and simply ]au1 on pillow till suppuration come on, seems to be best, as at this time , tetus’s bandage can never be applied so firmly as to give hope of keep ing the r putting the limb in proper position, to swathe it in a long 4^ support^better than splints, or stiff pieces of tin or paste- board, is manifestly incorrect , 2830. The after-treatment must be conducted according to the usuiu