666 WARTS-, CAUSES AND tying the vessels, or if this be not possible, with cold water or pressur 4 The same dressing is to be employed as for the clitoris. If the enlargiJ ment be very great, two moderately large semilunar cuts must be mad to include the degenerated part; which, having been removed, the edgu of the wound are to be brought together lengthways, throughout the '' whole extent, with suture. [The removal of the enlarged nympha is usually best performed with a pa; of small shears, of sufficient size to take off the whole at a stroke. If the prepuce r| the clitoris be also enlarged, it is rarely necessary to meddle with it, as after tl - removal of the nympha, it in general shrinks to a moderate size. I have not found needful, in any case in which I have operated, to employ sutures ; or to do more, thaJ at first to apply a cold wet rag to stanch the bleeding, and afterwards a poultice; tj the wound skins, the scar contracts, and the edges soon draw together.—J. F. S.] IV.—OF WARTS. ( Verruca, Lat ; Warzen, Germ. ; Vermes, Fr.) 2191. Warts are variously-shaped growths of the skin which appea under two different forms. They are either superficial, with a broa base, or most commonly attached by a thin neck, do not project rauc above the surface of the skin, are soft, compressible, covered with th ordinary epidermis, and have the same sensibility as the skin. Wart commonly arise at those parts where the skin is delicate and sensitive specially, therefore, on the face, neck, and back of the hand, and mor frequently in women than in men. Or warts are thick, have a hrotn base, and situated more deeply in the shin ; their form is conical 0 cylindrical; they are immovable and hard, outspreading on their top and the skin about their base seems burst through, as by the eruptioi of the wart, and its colour is completely changed ; the top of the wart i almost insensible, but frequently it is very painful within. [Besides the warts here mentioned, the generative organs are frequently attacke* with two kinds, one of which has much the appearance of the “ seedy wart,” as it i commonly called, on other parts of the body, and is a very common attendant m gonorrhoeal discharge, which has been allowed to remain on the skin and irritate it At first this kind of wart has a little pedicle, with, in comparison to its size, a broac head, consisting of little flat prolongations, like the tips of leaves closely set together, from this there is an acrid secretion which is contagious, and wherever it rests, pro duces in the same individual, or in another having commerce with her or him, the same growth. The neighbouring parts soon become contaminated; and it is no unfrequent to see the whole of the external female organs thickly covered with them as also the glans penis of the male; and should there chance to be in the l*lMO| phimosis, the warty growths rapidly increase, and distend the prepuce, till at last n bursts, and their protrusion gives the glans a cauliflower-like appearance. The other kind of venereal wart has not the narrow neck nor the leaf-like head, but is brow™ based, not unfrequently sore, and sometimes even having somewhat the character of a shallow badly-skinned ulcer; this form more commonly is noticed when there are—ot have been—sores, having a very chancrous character; and are often observed to exist when decided syphilitic eruptions cover the body. Warts sometimes take on a malignant character, and affect the neighbouring glands, and occasionally they seem to have a malignant character from the very first. I h3Te seen them upon the back of the hand and on other parts of the body; they generally have a broad base and a sort of cauliflower surface, and spread by enlargement of them base; sometimes they are tender and painful, at other times, not so; their head brew* off easily and bleeds freely, and sometimes ulcerates, still, however, retaining the sam warty character.—J. F. S.] 2192. The causes of warts are, for the most part, unknown; local in-i Alienees, as pressure, blows, chafing, and the like, frequently seem <j produce them; their foundation, however, is, in general, constitutions