CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE; 572 shoulders, and himself held by assistants. A staff was then introduce into the bladder, with which it was attempted to ascertain the presence • the sto.ie, and at the same time, also, if possible, its size. The handle of tl staff was given to an assistant, who inclined it a little towards the bell and at the same time also raised the scrotum. A cut was then made on tl left or right side of the raphe, upon the staff, beginning below tl scrotum, and terminating an inch above the anus, in males usual about four fingers’ breadth long. If the bistoury did not at first hit upc the groove of the staff, a second cut divided the bulb and a small part the pars membranacea urethra; the gorget, conductor, or dilator, w then entered on the groove of the staff, the staff drawn back, and the nec of the bladder enlarged with the gorget. The stone-forceps were the passed in, and assisted also in enlarging the neck of the bladder, and wit them the stone was grasped and drawn out. 2066. This mode of operating has manifestly great advantage over th little apparatus, but instead of the simple enlargement of the neck of th bladder, as was the object for which it was employed, considerable tearin and bruising was always produced, as experiments on the dead body a least have proved, and pulling out the stone was always accompanied wit great difficulty, and injury of the parts. The serious symptoms whici mostly followed this mode of operation were, extravasation of blood, ab scesses, destroying suppuration, gangrene, fistula, incontinence of urine and the like. It must not, however, be overlooked that the results will the great apparatus were not exactly so unfavourable, as usually con sidered to its prejudice ; this Deschamps proved, and in reference to th« consideration of the several modes of proceeding in the lateral opera tion, is of very great importance (a). no Markschal, by his coup de maitre, in which, for the purpose of separating the urethn from the anus, he raised the staff under the pubic symphysis, inclined the handle toward himself, and thrust his lithotome further into the urethra, endeavoured to give the cn I a greater extent; but by this method the rectum was always liable to be injured. \ acc Berlinghieri’s (6) treatment, which will be noticed hereafter, resembles this practice Upon this mode of operating may be consulted Mariana Sanctx Barolitani, Libellus aureus de Lapide ex vesica per sectionem 9 extrahendo. Venet., 1535. Fienus, T., Tractatus de Sectione Calculi, seu Lithotomia.—Wundarzneikunst Niirnberg, 1675. Franco, P., Traite des Hernies, &c. Lyon, 1561. Pineau, S., Discours touchant l’luvention et l’Extraction du Calcul de la \ essie. Paris, 1596. Hildani, G. Fabric., Lithotomia Vesica;. Basil, 1628. Tolet, F., Traite de la Lithotomie ou l’Extraction de la Pierre hors de la A essiw Paris, 1708. Cinq. Edit. Alguisi, T., Litotomia, overo dal cavar la Pietra. Florenza, 1707. Goei.icke, A. O., De optima Lithotomiam administraudi ratione. Halse, 1713. Colot, De l’Operation de la Taille. Paris, 1727. 2067. Cutting for the Stone by the High Operation (Apparatus alius, Epiegsieotomia, Cystotomia epigastrica, Lat.; tier hohe Apparat, Eauchblasenschnitt, Germ. ; le haul Appareil, Fr.) consists in opening the bladder between the upper edge of the pubic symphysis and the fold of peritonceum, passing over the bladder. This operation was first per- (n) Chelius, llemerkungen ilbcr den Stein- (/>) Della Litotomia nei doe sessi, 4th Mem. sclmittji n lleidelb. kliniscli. Annalen, vol. vl. l’isa, 1825. pt. iv.