POLYPS OF THE VAGINA; OF THE RECTUM. 754 and be provided with long handles (Siebold) (a). The previous applic tion of a ligature around the neck of the polyp, after drawing it dow and before cutting it off, which is recommended by some practitioner Dupuytren and others consider unnecessary. If there be bleeding, co injections should be thrown up, cold applications made to the belly, plugs of lint, strewed with or steeped in astringents, introduced. 2387. Polyps of the vagina, as regards the symptoms they produce, ai the treatment they require, are of less consequence than those of tlj womb. They are soon discovered by examination, and only when ve:' large, cause pressure on the bladder and rectum. Their causes are infland mation, and injury of the vagina, venereal poison, and the like. Their removal is either effected by tying, which is little difficult, ai often done merely with the hand, or by cutting off; and the same rul-i are to be followed as in the operation for polyps of the womb. [Occasionally a vaginal polyp will, from some accidental cause, separate of its oi accord, without any surgical aid ; an instance of this kind occurred to me a ew yeti since.—J. F. S.J F.—OF POLYPS OF THE RECTUM. Desault, above cited, vol. ii. p. 498. 2388. Polyps of the rectum are situated either near the verge of tl j anus, and are then external, or they are deeper seated, and can °n y I protruded in going to stool, or even remain concealed m the gut. are generally round, not large, necked, and of a pale-red colour, times there is only one, but at other times several. , 2389. Those polyps which constantly lie out of the rectum, may grasped with forceps, drawn down, and taken off.at their root vnM stroke of the bistoury, or with the scissors ; and this applies also to s 4 as are situated higher, but can be forced out. If, however, the* po yp ' seated so high, that it will not be forced out of the rectum, the ligature the only remedy, and is best applied according to Desault s metho . XVII.—OF CANCER. (Cancer, Careinoma, Lat ; Krebs, Germ.) Peyrilhe, Dissert, de Cancro. Paris, 1774. Le Dram, Memoire avecun Pre'cis de plusieurs Observations sur le Cancer, de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. iii. p. 1. Jaenisch, Vom Krebse und dessen Heilart. Petersburg, 1,93. ^ Pearson, John, Practical Observations on Cancerous Complaints. London, 8vo. , 179C Whistling, Aeltere und neuere Kurmctlioden des offeuen Krebses. en •> Legaux, Dissert, sur le Cancer. Paris, an xi. . ,0_; Roux, P. S., Memoire sur le Cancer; in his Melanges de Chirurgie et p. 149. Paris, 1809. 8vo. jjLfl Home, Everard, Observations on Cancer connected with Histories ot London, 1805. 8vo. Ferrier, Dissert. Observations et Considerations sur le Cancer, t an., - ^ Bayle, Vues thcoretiques et pratiques sur le Cancer; m Bibliot eque vol. xxxv. Paris, 1812. (a) Mayer, above citeil, figs. i. ii. iii. 7S u tr* ,5H M