78 WOUND OF EPIGASTRIC OR OBTURATOR ARTERIES. In January, 1842, she again came under my care with symptoms of strangulation. She had constantly worn the truss, but not to much purpose, as the rupture has come down four or five times a week. The original femoral swelling had now increased to the size of a large fist, and filled up a considerable part of the inguinal region both below and above Poupart’s ligament. On its inner side, the part which had descended into the labium was also enlarged, and its fore and upper part had assumed a remarkable form, exhibiting the appearance of the appendix auricula: of the heart, with its loose extremity projecting upwards and forwards. This labial part of the swelling was very hard and firm, and its contents seemed solid, whilst the outer and larger portion was evidently filled with intestine, which could be readily felt, as the skin alone appeared to cover it, and pressure caused much gurgling. The rupture was returned, after the warm bath, by emptying the smaller into the larger swelling, which having been done with some difficulty, the aperture between the two was grasped tightly, so as to prevent any escape, the larger swelling being thrust into the thigh by an assistant. I again employed the taxis upon it, and the rupture was slowly but completely returned into the belly. The mouth of the sac was large enough to admit the entrance of two or three fingers, and through the inside, the fingers could be readily passed into the appendicular swelling, and to the bottom of the labium.— J. F. S.] 1228. Wounding the epigastric or obturator artery, or one of their branches, in the operation for inguinal or femoral rupture, may cause a fatal or alarming bleeding, the more, as the blood is commonly poured into the cavity of the belly. By proper consideration of the points mentioned in the several kinds of these ruptures, this injury may indeed always be prevented. For stanching the bleeding, compression with oak agaric, plugs of lint moistened with styptics, with peculiar instruments, (Desault, by means of broad compressing forceps, Schindler, with forceps having a hinge, Hesselbach, with a peculiar compressor, Hager, with the compressor for the middle meningeal artery,) the passing a needle around the bleeding vessel, the enlargement of the incision, and special tying the vessel, have been proposed. Hesselbach’s instrument (a) seems to have the preference ; with its spoon-shaped part we must endea- vour to find the seat of the bleeding, as when it is passed into the belly, the blood in that cavity escapes externally, which, however, is better done by introducing the forefinger. The spoon-like part is then to be placed on the wound of the vessel, the other broad part, on the front wall of the belly, and by means of a screw, the two parts are to be pressed together. A cold application assists the operation of this remedy. [Although it cannot be doubted that wounds of either the epigastric or obturator arteries are very dangerous accidents, yet it is very remarkable that with the frequent variety of their origin and in the great number of operations for strangulated rupture, such cases are exceedingly rare, the number collected by Lawrence being not more than twelve or fourteen. In one of these, “ the epigastric artery had been completely divided at three quarters of an inch from its origin, and it did not appear that the smallest quantity of blood had escaped from the divided vesselin another, in enlarg- ing the stricture, “ the wound immediately filled with arterial blood, which rose again almost directly to the edges of the incision when removed with the sponge. * * * The patient lost about a pint of blood, fainted, and the bleeding ceased, nor did it come on again.” (p. 271.) In other cases, however, the patient died of the bleeding, either with or without the mischief having been discovered. If there be reasonable ground to suppose that either artery is wounded, the proper proceeding is to seek for and tie it, which was done by Mackay with success (b). It is also remarkable that the bleeding does not always come on immediately at the operation; but from the two following cases it appears that this may arise from other (a) IIessei.bach, F. K., Besehreibung und Anliang und Beitrag zu den neuesten anatomisdl Abbildung eines neuen lnstrumentcs zur sichern pathologischen Untersuchungen iiber die Leisten Entdeckung und Stillung einer bei dom Bruck- und Sclionkelbriiche. Wurzburg, 1816; «ith sclmitte entstandenen geffilirlichen Blutung. Ein two copper-plates. (oj A. Cooper, p. 41.