OPERATION FOR NASAL POLYPS 732 especially when of the mucous kind, the unnatural vegetative process the mucous membrane may be checked, and the incipient formation of t! polyp prevented, by the application of cold astringent fluids, by sniffing i powders of calomel, or oxysulphuret of antimony with sugar, by toucliir with tincture of opium, by purging, and corresponding general treatment The removal of nasal polyps may be effected by tearing away, 1 tying, by cutting off, and by destroying them with the actual cautery. 2325. Tearing away a nasal polyp is the most common and indeed tl most suitable mode of cure, when the polyp, be it fleshy or mucous, is n. deep seated, has not a very broad base, and is not -very hard. For tlr purpose p)°lyp~forcePs are used, of different size, and either straight ( curved. The blades of good polyp-forceps must be a little hollowed i front and rough, so that the polyp may be more firmly grasped; the edges must be neither very thin nor sharp, or the polyp will be easif snipped asunder; they must be broad and strong, and their handles sufl ciently long (a). Schreger (/;) uses also forceps with disjointed parallel arms. 2326. Previous to tearing away the polyp, its extent and the place ( its attachment must be carefully examined with a whalebone probe, whic must be carried around it; the light made to fall properly into th nostril, and the finger passed upwards behind the soft palate; but th frequent irregular surface of the polyp, and the various projections of thi walls of the nostril, render, in most cases, a certain knowledge of the sea of the polyp impossible. On the whole, however, this is not of so grwi consequence as generally supposed ; since less depends on the seat of th polyp, than on its form and size, whether the polyp-forceps can be pro perly carried to its root. 2327. The operation is performed in the following way :—The patien being seated on a chair of corresponding height to that of the operatoi and opposite the light, so that it may fall into the nostril, his head ishel« by an assistant standing behind him, who, placing his hand upon th' patient’s forehead, presses and fixes the head against his own chest. 11 “ polyp do not hang quite loosely in the nostril, attempts must be m e loosen it with the whalebone probe, which should be carrier! round, an the patient, closing the healthy nostril, should blow forward the po yP much as he can. The operator holds the forceps with the thumb and tow finger of the right hand by the rings of their handle, and passes ^ closed into the nostril up to the polyp, then opens them, and bj twisoq and turning them about endeavours to get the polyp between their The patient must strive to force the polyp still further between the whilst the operator, at the same time, tries to carry them up higher to root of the polyp. The forceps are now closed, and being kept b with the screw or the fingers, are twisted on their axis, and at the same pulled, till the polyp be completely separated. _ . ^ 2328. The polyp is frequently removed from its root at one p ^ on sniffing the nose is quite pervious ; but if such be not the■ a portion of the polyp remain, if, perhaps, there be several po 1 > ^ forceps must be again introduced, the remnant grasped and puli tc(1 already directed. If there be not much bleeding, tins must J- the till the whole polyp is removed. ontirp removal ot the p n ■ >0 < 0 ff tiJf !t •* ; (n) Richter’s Anfangsgrilncle, vol. i. pi. v. fix. 1. ((,) Neucr Chiron, figs. 1,2. vol. i- par* U- P' i#r