VARICOSE ANEURYSM. 272 the two vessels communicate with each other. The vein is somewhat dis- tant from the artery, and the blood flows from the sac into the vein and thus is formed a Varicose Aneurysm (Aneurysma vancosum.) In this case the aneurysmal sac enlarges, and, it is to be feared, wi 1 buret; Clot forms in the sac, and, together with the tremulous swelhng of the vein is felt a firm pulsating swelling, of defined extent, which, if the artery be compressed above, does not, as in vanx, subside. I he above- described symptoms are also present Tying the artery above the sac, held by Scarpa (a) and Hodgson (ft) most favourable for the cure, is for the above-mentioned reasons most, uncertain on account of the speedy:; danger of a relapse ; and tying above and below the sac is the most.. proper (c). r William Hunter, was also well aware of this form of the disease. He, ?ays “ AMthe^diVerem^iii such cases will arise from the different maimer in which the 0f tve artery may be united or continued with the orifice of the vein. In one case,' sfraSrf ofTffiffe “flammationani S £eS Sole tumefaction will be mote regular »d moreh"f“S«sSS — vein mtoha ha? M in a common spurious aneurysm, and so make a sort ofcanal betwm vein, into g, , of the vein will then be removed to some distance iron Ifftr mk Jthe artJry and the bag wiR be situated chiefly upon the under side of the may be formed, as in the common spurious aneurysm, (pp. 394, 95.)] In operating on such a varicose aneurysm, when, after the applicative of a tourniquet, the swelling is cut into throughout its whole length, am the blood absorbed with a sponge, at the bottom of the cavity is s aperture made by the lancet, in the hinder wall of the expanded vein L no robe be introduced into it, it passes into a second sac, but not into artery6 which is ascertained by* the ease with which the probe mere, nround and the difficulty with which it can be carried in the direction the artery. After the introduction of the probe, this opening is to be enr Wed and the second sac, which is full of coagulated blood and layer of membrane, laid open throughout its whole extent. After emp ) o cleanffi " the sac, the wound of the artery appears in the bottom tlmiug which the sound is to be introduced, and the ligature applied aboie am below. . . [My friend Green had some years ago a case of vancose aneurysm^ e an it in the frontal branch of the temporal artery and vein, about t e sueat: _ entere which resulted from these vessels havmg been wounded m eupp g- j j tw0 0r onesidthe sac, but i. did not pass ou( «t the other,* fices iu it. He removed the whole mass and the preparation is mKjW s Co g fiCThe highly interesting case described by * aneurysm? does not appear to me to correspond at all with t Hodgso term varicose aneurysm generally implies, and in which it is used by both (a) Above cited, * 433. Rbove dted.-B,