FROM CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 423 I this come part which Everard Home has dignified with the name of third lobe of the Estate and claimed the discovery of, without adding anything to what Hunter had , d about it, except that of the five cases he examined, and on which he grounded his I iaim, “the appearance,” he says, “was not exactly the same in any two of them, i) 101 And yet this has got the name of Home’s third lobe, and is so continually i ’ailed in spite of John Hunter’s observation, and the knowledge that the French ana- *: musts have long since been well aware of it under the name trigone. In reality, However, so far as I have had an opportunity of observing, the two principal or side portions of the gland are most commonly enlarged at the same time and in the same abtroportion as this small portion which lies behind.—j. f. s. JJt “The next thing noticed is,” says Asti.ey Cooper, “ that the urine has a particu- iie irlv powerful smell, which arises from its being ammoniated in consequence of some r rine remaining in the bladder after each discharge. * * * The next symptoms &;re pain and numbness in the glans penis; sense of weight and uneasiness in the Werineeum, relieved by pressure with the finger; pain in the back of one or both thighs, i the loins, and at the origin of the sciatic nerves, and in the course of the ureters; the tees are flattened, from the pressure made upon the rectum by the swollen gland, ersons having enlarged prostate for any length of time, generally have, likewise, rolapsus ani and haemorrhoids. * * * The ammoniacal smell of the urine as the disease advances, becomes highly offensive, and at length the urine itself becomes white ;ir milky; this appearance shows that the inflammation has extended to the mucous lembrane of the bladder. If the urine be much retained, it has the appearance feoffee, occasioned by an admixture of blood with it; this leads many practitioners i suppose, for the moment, that the ease is one of stone; but if you question the atient for a few moments, your doubts on this point will be removed.” (p. 240.) “ Upon dissection,” continues Astley Cooper, “ the prostate is found enlarged sorne- } imes laterally; but most frequently the enlargement is in the posterior part, situated in ie middle or third lobe. As the prostate enlarges it is pushed forwards, in conse- uence of which the urethra becomes curved immediately before the apex of the pros- ite; indeed, the coming forward of the prostate causes the urethra almost to double pon itself. The curve thus formed is at the symphysis pubis ; and it is in this situation at the difficulty on passing the catheter in diseased prostate is found. Tracing on the mrse of the urethra, behind the curved part, that canal is seen much enlarged, and the Vwrethra itself is considerably elongated, that is, from an inch and a half to two inches; Igrhich increase of length is behind the pubes, and it is owing to this circumstance that - ou are under the necessity of carrying on the catheter so great a distance after its oint has passed the arch of thepubes. As to the prostate itself, we find that it may icrease to a most enormous size laterally without giving rise to retention of urine; but iat enlargement which occurs posteriorly in the third lobe, frequently occasions itention of urine, for the enlargement is situated immediately behind the orifice of the rethra; thus the urine collecting behind the swelling presses it against the mouth of e urethra, and forms a complete barrier to its passage.” (pp. 241, 42.) “ This tumour,” (of the third lobe,) observes Brodie, “ varies in size from that of an horse bean to that of an orange. When small, it is of a conical form, with the apex ‘ jf the cone projecting into the bladder, and the basis being continued into the rest ( >;f the prostate. When large, the basis is often the narrowest part, and it swells out so fHs to have a pyriform figure towards the bladder. In some instances, by the side fitf that which I have just mentioned, there is another tumour, formed by one of the t literal portions, also projecting into the bladder. The canal of the urethra, where passes through the enlarged prostate, is generally flattened; and when the latter >'i 'i divided transversely, the urethra appears like a slit, rather than like a cylindrical I anal. Not unfrequently the enlargement of the prostate so alters the form of the » rethra, that, instead of pursuing a straight course through the gland, it is inclined first iflo one side and then to the other. You would expect the urethra to be narrow, in Sfyionsequence of the increased bulk of the parts by which it is surrounded; and so it is -'< n many instances; in others, however,, it is actually wider, being dilated into a kind •' f sinus, where it lies in the centre of the prostate. 1 have known such a sinus duo contain two or three ounces of fluid.” (pp. 152, 53.) * (2) Astley Cooper asks:—“ How, when diseased prostate exists, are you to know it ? ’ 'Vhat are the diagnostic signs ? Why, the enlargement laterally may be readily ascer- 1 'ained by introducing the finger into the rectum; but the enlargement of the middle 4 'Obe cannot be so learnt. In what way then ? Why, by the introduction of a catheter ! »r bougie, and the latter is best; it will be found to stop suddenly; you are then 1,1-o introduce a catheter for the purpose of drawing off the water; the instrument will