570 CUTTING FOR THE STONE IN MEN; rhoidal affections, and specially with loading of the liver, leeches must 1 applied to the anus. In stout persons, with weak constitution, the coij o dilion of the juices and the state of the bowels must be attended to, i ■ this kind of constitution may be most prejudicial to the result of tl operation. Under these circumstances bathing must be used with tl ' =! greatest caution, and tonics are often called for. The use of purgative commonly employed in the preparatory treatment to cutting the stom t requires care ; if necessary, at least a few days must intervene betwee : their use and the operation. If the patient have worms, they must eitlu j be first got rid of. and then the operation be performed ; or he may be lef to his ordinary quantity of diet, attention being paid to its quality, am on the day before the operation have broth three or four times, accordinj t* to his appetite, and on the morning itself, bread soaked in beef tea or ric t porridge. Old persons are to be treated in the same way. In countr i people, who are accustomed to coarse food, a quick change of food, ani S to a lighter kind, may be unfavourable to the result of the operation e In very sensitive subjects, small doses of opium, extract, hyoscyami, o j aq. lauro-cer., may be administered. A.—Or Cutting for the Stone in Men. 2060. The history of cutting for the stone presents six different model >i in which it is performed on the male, to wit:— First, Cutting with the little apparatus. Second, „ ,, great ,, Third, ,, ,, high operation. Fourth, ,, by the lateral ,, Fifth, ,, into the body of the bladder from theperinceum. Sixth, ,, through the rectum. 2061. Cutting for the Sto?ie with the Little Apparatus, (Apparatus parvus, Hypocystomia, Lat.; der Steinschnittmit der kleinen Gerathschafl, Germ. ; la Taille par le petit Appareil, Fr.,) called also Celsus’s method, because he first described it, consists in making a cut upon the stone l through the perinceum and neck of the bladder, and drawing it out with a stone-spoon. This plan remained the only one, and unchanged up to the < sixteenth century, when it yielded to the great apparatus, and was almost ti entirely confined to childhood. Heister and Morand alone have, in more ; modern times, taken it under their protection. 2062. A strong man sitting on a chair takes the patient on his lap, and holds the thighs bent at the knee properly apart. If he be not in this way sufficiently fixed, the feet must be held by other assistants on each side. The operator introduces two fingers of his left hand into the anus, and endeavours, whilst with his right hand above the pubic sym- \ physis he presses the belly downwards, to push the stone into the neck of the bladder ; then, upon the projection formed by the stone in the pert- • nceum, on the left side of the raphe, he makes a semilunar cut, the horns of which are directed towards the left hip-socket, through the perinceum into the bladder, divides its neck by a second transverse cut, and pulls out the stone with his finger or with a stone-spoon. Such is the usual interpretation of the text of Celsus :—“ Ut super vesica: c?rv*c®j [ fit, juxta anum incidi cutis plaqa lunula usque ad cervicem vesica: debet, coroibus ad i coxas spectantibus paululum: deinde ea parte, qua strictior ima plaga est, etiamnuins® cute, altera trausversa plaga facienda est, qua cervix aperiatur” (a). As a deviation tro (a) De Mcdicina, lib. vii. cap. xxvi.