415 RETENTION OF URINE FROM INFLAMMATION. • I,,. Madder to their natural condition, which must be done by voluntarily retaining the * -ine or if this be impossible, by introducing a catheter morning and night for a long ,‘j hiie by which the intervals of relieving the bladder maybe gradually lengthened (a). L ,he over-sensibility of the bladder is thereby checked by compelling it to bear a greater (loree of irritation, and by the same means also the contractile power of its sphincter i Lav be increased. In most cases this great sensibility of the bladder is connected (when id does not depend on local disease in the urinary passages) with disturbance of the W<n>stive organs and irregular living, and requires gently purgative and afterwards tonic Enedies, lukewarm bathing or washing the perinceum with lukewarm water, clysters iiqr.th opium, purgatives, and strictly regulated diet. I: 1793. Retention of Urine, depending on inflammation, (Ischuria Hflavfmatoria,) commences with the most violent and dangerous symptoms. ' ides great urging, the patient feels a deep-seated pain in the bladder id neighbouring parts. There is accompanying fever, the distended i gion of the bladder smarts when touched, and is frequently reddened. In the inflammation spreads over the other bowels ; eructations and vomiting Ijicur, and if they continue beyond the sixth day, the patient’s life is in ffitreme danger, and death is almost unavoidable. Sometimes the inflam- mation takes a more insidious course, and puriform secretion with thick- :i )iing of the bladder occur. q 1794. The inflammation in this retention may be seated in the whole ) nal of tlie urethra, in the neck of the bladder, in the prostate gland, mid even in the bladder itself. i Its causes are, external violence, which attacks the perinceum and ■ gion of the bladder, stones in the bladder, extension of the irritation of a e rectum in hsemorrhoidal affections to the bladder, rectal fistula, and & e like ; a high degree of inflammation in gonorrhoea, suppression of the t> lual discharges, suppressed gout, repressed eruptions on the skin, and |b .tching cold. 1795. Antiphlogistic remedies must be employed in inflammatory reten- 1 )n of urine, with reference to the cause which has produced it. Blood >d ust be taken away and leeches applied to the perinceum; mucilaginous ! - inks taken, though in as small quantity as possible, in order not to increase il|e filling of the bladder. As in inflammatory retention, spasmodic con- iioiction of the neck of the bladder is always present, warm anodyne appli- Iftions must be made to the pubes and perinceum, warm vapour of ca- - omileto the perinceum, rubbing in volatile ointments, clysters with opium, > lid the like employed. Tobacco clysters are much relied on. Blisters 'I ust not be applied ; calomel and opium internally are specially effective. ■ 1796. In severe gonorrheeal inflammation soothing applications are also be made over the whole penis, the patient laid horizontally, and the r’ lsticles supported with a suspender. In hsemorrhoidal affections leeches ije applied to the rectum, and internally, cream of tartar and sulphur ven. 1797. Although emptying of the urine be necessary, as by its irritation >'causes the inflammation, it must not be used till the remedies already ■commended have been employed. The introduction of the catheter is ■re always painful and difficult; an elastic one is best used, and its point I ■ ould be passed far into the bladder, so that its walls should not be irri- e ■ ^ tbe catheter can in no way be introduced and mortification of I ilb?r ‘'i® Hambeschwerdon Ghckfe und von Walthkii’s Journal, vol. i.p.309. erminilerter capacit.it der Ilarnblaae ; in —IIysi.op; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. I0S. — Hinoiiam ; abovo cited, p.