364 TREATMENT OF (r) Above cited, p. D-- matory condition got rid of by blood-letting, quietude, warm bathing, anu j antiphlogistic diet. Many writers have, however, advised that the bough. * should remain for several days, in consequence of which an increases i secretion of mucus in the urethra is excited, its sensibility blunted, ant ,1 it is protected against the presence of foreign bodies (a). For the mos part, patients soon become accustomed to the longer resting of the bougii. w in the urethra, and after some days it may be left. It is then advisable 4 to exchange it for an elastic catheter, which' is specially indicated, if there t be already^ fistulous openings, because the patient is thereby relieved fron the necessity of its frequent removal, and re-introduction, for the purpose u of discharging his urine. The bougie, or catheter, when left in, should be properly fastened; i 3 tape must be bound tightly round it at the mouth of the urethra, the end; > of which carried over the glans penis, must be fastened behind it with several turns of sticking plaster, and the loose ends tied together. Thl mode of fastening is simple, safe, without difficulty, and preferable t< f< fastening a thread to a ring placed upon the penis. (DurcYTREN.) When the bougie has been long left in, it often, specially at first, acquires an indep I from the stricture, in consequence of which, if it be carelessly withdrawn, violent pair ; may be produced. This may be prevented, if the bougie be frequently moved, am gently drawn up and down. 1685. Thin bougies, or catheters, should be gradually exchanged fo: - thicker ones, which, in not very tough strictures, may be soon; and thl ) should be repeated till the urine is voided in its accustomed stream. Tin bouo-ie must not be left off at once, but must still be left in for some time every day, or every other day, and afterwards every week for some hours It will be also advantageous in dispersing the hardness of the membrane! of the urethra to apply, externally, mercurial ointment, and to give, in- jj ternally, cherry bay water (b) and the like. _ . . , J If afterwards, the stream of urine should begin to diminish, and the a patient have difficulty in passing it, the use of the bougie must again lx ii prescribed. In order to effect the expansion of the stricture at pleasure, Arnott (c) has proposer an instrument, consisting of an oiled silk tube, which, for the purpose of rendencgi air-tight, is lined with the thin gut of some small animal, and connected with anotnei tube through which air can be blown, or water injected by means of a syringe, ana re- tained by a cock. Although the introduction of this instrument is generally as easy « that of a bougie, it is, however, frequently, better, especially in an irritable introduce it through a canula. When it has penetrated the stricture, it is to be bliec with ’air or water, as long as the patient can bear it without pain. fConundrums of this sort are very well pour s’amuser, but every practical perso be very well aware that if a stricture will admit such a contrivance it is suttwi expanded not to require the assistance of a Surgeon, or any one else, but haa oe left alone.—J. F. S.] 1686. The operation of bougies consists in the expansion, compression and irritation, produced by their introduction and inlying, in conseqoen of which an increased secretion of mucus, and modification of the vita y and condition of the diseasedly changed mucous membrane is set up^ common cases their presence in the urethra excites only a little P» mucous discharge ; but in sensitive persons, violent pam and painful erections, transition of the inflammation to the testicles, an • .* of the inguinal glands, will be produced with the inlying also inflammation of the cellular tissue upon the outer surface of t (a) Desaui.t, Choi-art, Delfech, Precis Elc- mentalre, vol. i. p. 558. (6) Richter, Anfangsgnindc, vol. vi. P--83,