THE CESAREAN OPERATION. 436 of the patient about an operation, in which case it can be done throu i the rectum, without his knowledge. Poller (a), in cases where the operation above the pubes cannot be performed, p , i fers that through the perinceum to the puncture through the rectum, especially if it j foreseen that the retention of urine may be continued a long time after the operatic! In the puncture through the perinceum, there are also some special objects attainable * the emptying calcareous concretions in permanent disposition to form stone, and the ■ 1 moval of the danger of ischury in consequence of large stones, which cannot be remov j I [But few Surgeons in England, I believe, at the present time, ever perform eit) l of the operations for puncturing the bladder, as above described, except in the sin: 4 case of enlarged prostate, in which the operation above the pubes should be {;) formed; and indeed, as regards that disease, the necessity for any artificial , i sistance,’ beyond that of introducing a catheter, is so rare, that it is scarcely thoui ii of In all cases the operation of opening the membranous part of the urethra, i introducing a catheter into the bladder, which is, and has been for many years pr commonly practised in this country, is the most satisfactory and the most effectttfl If there be stricture, it is the Surgeon’s fault if the stricture and the retention be rfl cured at one and the same time; and, to a certainty, it prevents the possibility# mischief from extravasation, as the urine speedily flows by the wound, and is ne- ; pent up. There is neither difficulty nor danger in this operation. With comipj attention, the urethra may, in most cases, be found, and a catheter at once passed i; the bladder. If it cannot be found, as occasionally happens with young operators, « ! cut right through the urethra before they are aware of it, if the cut be continued mi :j deeply, the bladder must be opened, if the wound be carried up in the axis of t pelvis ■ and if it be not opened, it is not matter of great consequence, provided th. be a free external opening, as in the eourse of a few hours the urine will find its wj into the wound, and be readily discharged; and in cases of stricture, if the stricture-'I so far forward that it be not involved in the wound in the penna-um, made by t i knife or by sloughing, if urine be extravasated, it generally relaxes so much, that, can be cured by the ordinary treatment with bougies, or sounds, during the reparatt of the wound in the perinceum.—J. F. S.] IV _OF THE CiESAREAN OPERATION. (Sectio Caesarea, Gastrohysterotomia, Laparo-Metrotomia, Lat.; Kaiserschutt, Gena| ^ Operation Cesarienne, Fr.) Rousset, Traite nouveau de l’Hysterotomokia, Paris, 1581. Translated also u 1 Latin by Bauhinus. Basil, 1582. Ruleab, Traite de 1’Operation Cesarienne. Paris, 1704. Simon, Recherches sur l’Operation Cesarienne; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chirurt vol. i. p. 623; vol. ii. p. 308. Kaltschmidt, De Partu Cacsareo. Jen., 1150. Stein, G. W., Praktische Anleitung zur Kaisergeburt. Cassel, 1775. Weissenborn, Observations duse de Partu Caesareo. Erford., 1792. Freymann, De Partu Cmsareo. Marb., 1797. Hull, John, M.D., A Defence of the Caesarean Operation, & c. Manchester, 1798. Gaillardot, C., Sur l’Operation Ce'sarienne. Strasb., 1799. Stein, G. W., Geburtshiilfliche Abhandlungen. Parti. Marb., 1803. Ansiaux, N., Dissert, sur l’Ope'ration Cesarienne et la Section de la Sympbyse Pubis. Paris, 1803. Nettmann, J. F., Speciem sistens Sectionis Cicsarete Historiam. Hall, 1805. Graefe, C. F„ Ueber Minderung der Gefahr beim Kaiserschnitte nebst der eines Falles, in welchem Mutter und Kind erhalten wurden ; in Journal fur und Augenheilk., vol. ix. p. 1. ... . Michaelis, G. A., Vierter Kaiserschnitt der Frau Adametz. mit gi»c“,cn Erfolge fur Mutter und Kind ; in Neue Zeitschr. fur Geburtskunde, vol. v. p- Berlin, 1837. Kayser, C., De eventu Sectionis Crcsareae. Havniae, 1841. 8vo. Rigby, Edw., M.D., A System of Midwifery. London, 1844. 12mo. (a) Above cited, p. 47.—Moniukbk ; in Revue Medic»le, vol. U. P- 319. 1841.