DROPSY OF THE JOINTS; PROGNOSIS 462 produced it diminish, in which case, if the absorption of the collected fluid have tRn n Kmrn.m /in An on trwnlmnnt I «//r 91 2 nnrl nnwar/lc \ i* piUUlU/CU. It UUiUUloUj 111 W 11 iv^n taotj xx iiiv/ uuoui \/x uiv w»iv.v/vcu xxxxikx iia> taken place under the above-mentioned treatment, (par. 213 and onwards,) it ma require to be discharged, which I have several times done successfully at the kne*. joint. h [Brodie (a) observes :—“ Cases occasionally (but not often) occur, in which a joint , $j swollen from a preternatural quantity of fluid collected in its cavity without pain ( :i inflammation. This may be supposed to arise, either from a diminished action of tl c absorbents, or an increased action of the secreting vessels. The disease may he con i t pared to the dropsy of the peritonaum or pleura; or more properly, to the hydrocele)* and it has been not improperly designated by the terms Hydrartlirus and Hydro] > £ Articuli.” (p. 7.)] 1877. The prognosis in dropsy of a joint is usually not favourabh unless when it have arisen quickly, and have not been of long com tinuance, in which case its dispersion may be often easily effecteo> But if the disease have existed any length of time, and be very con siderable, and if the ligaments have thickened, the hope of a dispersio: is very slight, and puncturing the joint for the purpose of dischargim the collected fluid, is an operation which may lead to the most dangerou consequences. Dropsy of a joint is also easily liable to a relapse, am when long continued, can produce organic changes of the joint, which build up new structures. 1878. The treatment of incipient dropsy of a joint is the same as tha directed for inflammation of the synovial membrane. If the disease have existed some time, it must be the object to encourage the absorption o the collected fluid ; frequent rubbing, rubbing in volatile ointments mercurial ointment with camphor, repeated blisters frequently and a different parts applied, and long persisted in, fumigations, warm ant cold douche baths, wrapping up in oiled silk, the moxa, the actua cautery, electricity, and moderate compression. The internal treatmen must correspond to the cause of the disease. Gtimelle (b) has ieconi- mended large doses of tartarized antimonial wine as especially efficient 1879. If°the absorption of the collected fluid be not brought aboui by this' treatment, if, on the other hand, the quantity increase, so tha great pain and inability of using the limb be produced, or if there bt also a foreign body in the cavity of the joint, the collected fluid be so discharged as to prevent the entrance of the air. With this object the fluid is to be pressed against that part of the joint where the coverings are thinnest, on the knee for instance, on the inside. i the fingers of the one hand the skin is to be drawn aside, and a m trocar, a lancet, or a bistoury, thrust into the joint, without, wounding the joint surfaces. After the discharge of the fluid, and the removal of the canula, if the trocar be used, in doing which the "Oun is to be closed with the thumb of the right hand, and the coverings he j back with the fingers of the left, the skin which has been drawn aside is I allowed to return to its place, so that the parallelism between the ou er j and inner wound is got rid of, and the wound well closed with sticking I plaster. • h the I Opening the swelling with a lancet, or bistoury, is preferable to thiat wiUi^ trocar, if the fluid be very thick, or if there be any little bodies at the san I present in the joint, of which the removal is also requisite. , T c;r. - I I can hardly think the operation of puncturing a dropsical joint is, unde ^ jhe cumstances, justifiable, as the inflammatory symptoms which follow a wO n^ synovial membrane, even when healthy, are generally so great, and the eo q („) On the Diseases of Joints. (h) Gazette Medicate de Paris, vol. vm. p-