741 TREATMENT. mucus, or lymph-like fluid in the cavity, tlie prognosis is more favourable than in polyps, and the above-mentioned degeneration of the bony walls. In the further progress of polyps, osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma, cancerous 1 degeneration not unfrequently ensues, a condition which is beyond aid. 2352. In considering the treatment of the different conditions of disease in the maxillary sinus, that of its inflammation must be first taken up. Acute inflammation must be treated strictly antiphlogistically, free blood-letting, leeching, and cold applications to the cheek. If it have been caused by external violence, and any separation of the walls of the sitius be supposed to exist, moderate pressure must also be made. If the :jii infammatory tension be thereby relieved, then, in catarrhal or rheumatic affection, recourse must be had to diaphoretic treatment and to purgatives. ’ If there be restlessness and loss of sleep, to these remedies must be added ( opium in moderate doses, rubbing in opium powder and spittle on the | C “ ““If nioht a strong camphorated belladonna plaster applied. 2353. When the inflammation is chronic or becomes so, which is gene- ra y the case in any causal relation with dyscrasic affections, the treatment ’ must be specially regulated by the disease on which it depends. If there 1 be a Wennorrhagic condition, loosening up of the mucous membrane, which 'Ihen ere,iS a discharSe streaked with blood, injections of I ^ W- deC°,C 10nS mUSt be made int0 the nose> purgatives, and according I S oxIjenence, specially, a snuff composed of ten grains of -a omel and two drachms of sugar, or from two to three grains of sulphuric | SxttrCU17’.and adrauChm °f SU§ar’ and tincture 3 divans, in con- , Inspc -u reraedles wblcl‘ counteract the existing dyscrasy, and in such ■ loseswill depress the vascular action. ■ ^ hen the disease has proceeded to closure of the aperture of .i -he maxillary sinus, and there is any collection in it, or a blennorrhao-ic 1 dslneT’ °r-the U,!Cei'atl0n which has taken Plaoe in the cavity, even whilst feeo-eLratbn'hav^f136115 ?axinot.he c7ured’ or if PolyPs or other kinds of I emedv hv , formecl, opening the maxillary sinus remains the only I ecrflJ’ b> meansi of this, the unnatural collection is emptied, the diseased In estimat' "Ir’ th? diseased Production removed or destroyed. . onsidpZ A 118 °Peratlon’ the leased conditions requiring it must be | r^’,Whe2r the fneral affection ™ which they depend, is, oi can olvn ' lennorrhcea and ulceration are more easily cured than 5 ■Zt2Z“°mrlmia’ Mt‘°sleatomu, and exostosis. In these cases the after 3 . |“ “ extre"!el5, ,lifficult’ «* “fto'-pmluets are easily t enro- I her nr, I ot u"fr'eC|uently run into cancerous degeneration. When these the neishbo^rins bon« ( ie patient’ ri®e’.OI niamfestly assume a cancerous condition and \ phfa dkr6” ^ already mUCh Sunken’ operaS wm’only -eif proposed f Willicl‘ °,pening the maxillary sinus has o'ar toSth fn S°cket °£the second> third, or fourth lrt of the zygomatic ca™ma (Bmaui/t) ; third, the under Wh, the bony pllate^ T" ® SeC°nd and third molar tooth (b); la or Derfnrt.fi!P • Jjthd wh.ere any one part of the cavity is very vui in or Derfnmir ,r • ; waere any one part of so through the al^t^Vw10”11^ through the cheek, or at the same time, ° ine Palate ( Weinhold.) If there be a fi - ;;§teAntt, l^rd'1697-DBAKK, cavity lie sam fistulous aperture, it (/.) Lamobier; in Mem. de l’Acad. deChirurir vol. iv. p. 351, pi. iii. u.c. b‘