CUTTING FOR THE STONE ; C04 by the urethra. I have known this happen in a few instances, without the bleeding 1 i ever being serious, or affecting the constitutional powers. If the patient do not 1 water in the course of a few hours after the operation, if he become restless, and if t i he fulness and uneasiness, or pain about the region of the bladder, it may be suspecn that blood has flowed into the bladder and clotted. It is then necessary to pass the fir gently through the wound into the bladder, and immediately this is done the u escapes and clots of blood with it. Should the bladder be found much distended y blood, it is well to wash it out gently with a syringe and warm water, which ma\ repeated once or twice, at intervals, according to circumstances. Plugging the wound, or other of the appliances mentioned by Chelics, I do not (hi at all proper. Secondary bleeding, in rare cases, follows at an interval of several days after a pat. has been cut for the stone. Brodie mentions one of a child in the second week, wl occurred under his own care, and though the boy was excessively lowered by • bleeding, he recovered. Also a case of Earle’s, which bled on the seventh or eig. day, and was stopped “ by introducing through the wound into the bladder, a t composed of a quantity of lint wrapped round an elastic gum catheter.” (p. 335.) r. first case of this kind which I witnessed was under my care during my dressershiji 1816, and had been operated on by the elder Travers. At the time of the operab much blood was lost, but it soon stanched. On the fourth day there was a sudd bleeding from the wound, to the amount of a pint and a half, which was stopped i pressure with the finger. On the following day the bleeding returned twice, and lost another pint of blood ; pressure was again made for five hours ; the bleeding l not repeated, and he recovered. A similar case occurred to Green, in 1841, in a l of thirteen. He became excessively faint very soon after the operation, and there y a little bleeding throughout the whole of the afternoon and day following, which y checked by the introduction of the finger, with pressure on the pudic artery for ab< i half an hour at a time. No farther bleeding occurred after the second till the nil day, when he became very restless, and there followed a very free bleeding, both frt * the wound and from the urethra; several clots were passed during the afternoon a evening, the finger having been introduced into the wound several times to favour th< ' escape. There was no recurrence of clots or bleeding after this day. He was kept 1< for some days, but no cold application used, and he recovered. The following fatal case of secondary bleeding happened to me in 1839 :—I had o] rated on a lad of thirteen years of age with the gorget, and in opening the staff had c I through either the transverse perinseal or the artery of the bulb, from which there w very free bleeding, but it soon ceased. On the evening of the second day he had pa in the region of the bladder and in the left groin, with tenderness and a good deal constitutional excitement. Leeches were applied to the belly. The symptoms co ) tinuing, calomel and opium were ordered on the following day, and he was so nmc improved on the fifth day that the mercurial was left off, there remaining only a litt tenderness in the left groin. His urine was now quite natural in colour. On the six- day, up to which time he had passed water plentifully both by the wound and by fij urethra, a thin slough about the size of the finger-nail came away, and he seemed doin very well; but about noon he had some pain at the lower part of the belly, which wi> immediately followed by a small motion, accompanied with much straining; and: the urine passed by the wound, a quantity, as much as would fill both hands, of ver offensive dark-coloured clotted blood escaped with it. He then became easy, but wf very faint and pallid, and it was necessary to give him some brandy. On the next da ; he was tolerably well, free from pain, and did not seem affected by the occurrence c yesterday. It was thought that the clot discharged might have depended on bleeding back into the bladder, and that this had been the cause of the irritation on the secon evening. On the seventh evening he had a good deal of straining, and passed by th wound about three table-spoonfuls of clotted blood in several lumps, with plenty o water. On the following morning he passed some bloody urine after straining, aw the napkin was slightly tinged with fresh florid blood; he was pallid, his pulse snia and quick, and the countenance rather anxious. The same evening, with much strain ing and a little motion, he passed a clot of four ounces, another an inch a half 1°"P and as thick as the finger, and a third and smaller clot, at three several t'n*eS-1.'jY I the morning of the ninth day, about half-past seven, with much straining and a lit ‘ motion, he passed about four ounces of clot with urine by the wound, and a little blow • I but no water, from the urethra. He then became very faint and squeamish, and >®wn continually, his countenance bloodless, and his pulse very weak and quick. 1 f® . fully examined the wound, and found it clean but pale, with a small layer of coaguxa