313 AND OF THE NOSTRILS. Lnge of the surrounding parts, the result of the operation will be more ourable, as the joint will resume its natural form, power, and motion, this case the joint is always more movable in the flexing direction, •eat crookedness of’the knee-joint often cannot be rendered straight ,aer cutting the tendons; it will always crook again. The cause is, in s case, in the shortness of the lateral ligaments, usually in the external ?e, which is stretched under the skin, and must be cut through be- i ath it (a). III.—OF THE GROWING TOGETHER AND NARROWING OF THE NOSTRILS. 1574. A complete closing up of the nostrils is more rare than their v rrowing, and is commonly the result of ulceration and burns; it is rely congenital. In slight narrowing, the malformation is inconsider- le, and usually requires no assistance. In more considerable narrowing, ,7(j growing together, the breathing is affected, especially at night, and the :ech also. The connexion may be either at the edges of the nostrils, or [e wings of the nose may adhere to its septum, and the growing together y extend more or less into its cavities. By the projection of the air in wing through the nose, with the nostrils still open, the extent of the a nnexion may perhaps be ascertained. 11575. When the nostrils are merely narrowed, after an assistant has .Bed the patient’s head, a director is to be introduced into the nostril, and si ion it a narrow straight bistoury, with which the narrowed part is to be .1 t through according to the form and direction of the nostril, which is ■ n us widened. If the nostril be closed by a mere skin, this must be b erced with a bistoury, and its edges, having been taken hold of with ,«i rceps, raised and cut off. If the nostril be completely grown together, fe e bistoury must be thrust in the direction where the cavity should be, 1 it reach it, and being then withdrawn, and a director introduced, e bistoury is to be carried in upon it, and the connexion divided, as ;.i ove described. This operation is always more doubtful, and its conse- lences less certain, the higher the connexion extends. ' 1576. After the division, the natural calibre of the nostril must be pre- ryed by dressing, which is managed by introducing plugs of lint, or a l ‘ill wrapped with lint, by gum-elastic tubes, or Benjamin Beel’s little ) bes (b) smeared with lead ointment, and kept in position by a bandage >und the head. The dressing must be renewed daily, all foreign matters moved, the nose cleaned, and after injection of lead wash, reapplied. If >e introduced hard substances produce much irritation, plugs of lint must 5 used instead. This treatment must be continued till the opening of the istril be completely skinned over, and even still longer, if we desire to When such disposition is noticed, it must be opposed by the use of ‘panders, sponge-tent, and the like. •oid all disposition to a recurrence of the growing together or narrow- er WUn a: ij.- j ° ° the great disposition to repeated closure, the operation must never be ,“ ’jken whUst the plasticity is still very active. When the narrowing of the nostril -pcnas on unnatural formation of the bones, no expansion can be effected. («) Phillips, Ch., De la Tenotomio souscutanee, &c., p. 114. Paris, 1841. 8vo. (6) System of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 88. 1786.