631 STONE IN THE URETHRA; TREATMENT. it Hunter’s or Cooper’s forceps, or Civiale’s instrument, in doing ,1 which, the introduction of one or two fingers into the rectum, so as to S press against the stone, prevents its being pushed back into the bladder, iff md then extract or thrust it back into the bladder, {par. 2052,) it must be removed by a cut. If a staff can be introduced close to the stone, into the ? bladder, a cut must then be made, as in the lateral operation, into the prostate and part of the neck of the bladder, its situation ascertained by die finger, and the size of the cut increased as may be necessary. The s staff must now be removed, and with the finger passed into the rectum, it sf must be attempted to press the stone out, or at least prevent it getting i oack into the bladder, so that it may be removed with the forceps, or with o. i scoop. If the staff cannot be passed into the bladder, it must be carried i town to the stone, the membranous part of the urethra opened upon it, and wa director tried to be passed into the bladder, upon which its neck is to be d nifficiently cut into. If the staff cannot be introduced into the bladder, its i meek must be divided up to the stone, which must be pressed up from the mrectum, and even cut upon. After the removal of the stone, the finger ■for the sound should always be passed into the neck and body of the sbbladder, to ascertain whether there be any stones remaining. tub If, during the examination with the sound, the stone be forced back into the bladder, 3i t must be crushed. [When a stone is found lodged in the urethra, and more especially if it be far down | hat canal, the greatest care must be taken that it be neither pushed back by the sound, if!nor allowed to slip back in the handling; as if this happen, it will be necessary either r io cut into the bladder, or to attempt crushing, as Chelius recommends, which places 1 :he patient unnecessarily in a very unsatisfactory condition.—J. F. S.] 2142. If the stone lodge in the membranous part of the urethra, it i may increase on account of the yielding of the urethral wall, and easily a lestroy it by ulceration and fistulous openings. If the stone cannot be ^removed by the use of lukewarm baths, by the gradual enlargement of '.5 -he urethra with bougies, by gentle pressure, or by the already-mentioned i orceps, it must be taken out by a cut, in which case the stone should be stressed against the perinceum by the finger in the rectum, and then cut upon in an oblique direction, from the raphe to the ischial tuberosity. | ^er the removal of the stone, a thick elastic catheter should be intro- foiuced into the bladder and the wound closed with sticking plaster. I 2143. If the stone be situated in the spongy part of the urethra, it may snost commonly be got rid of by the use of soothing baths, by the enlarge- ment of the urethra, by pressing it forwards, or by means of the forceps : dready mentioned, or by a loop of wire. If these means be ineffectual, >r the symptoms urgent, a cut must be made on the stone, which should mm.fixed with the fingers of the left hand, and then pulled out; after ! ' nch a catheter is to be introduced, and the wound carefully closed. If !*.. 8tone have been long retained, and the walls of the urethra be much i distended and changed, an incurable fistula very easily occurs. If the '■ ’•-ut be requisite in the region of the scrotum, which should be carefully ^avoided for fear of urinary infiltration, it must be made through the skin na e tight, but not dragged out of place, sufficiently behind, and care H tv C^Ue Passaoe °fi the urine by the inlying of a catheter. t ‘ the stone be stopped in the fossa navicularis, and cannot be 6C °n account °f the narrowness of the orifice of the urethra, the rihce must be slit towards the framum.