267 CIRCULATION AFTER TYING THE FEMORAL ARTERY. interosseous membrane. If the artery be looked for deeper than the middle of the les?, as Charles Bell proposes, its hinder branch only is found. 1489. What lias been already said about aneurysms on the front and back of the hand, applies also to those on the sole, and on the back of the foot. If here it be not permissible, on account of the position of the aneu- ysm, to open the sac, and tie the artery above and below, the flow of blood mist be prevented by tying the affected artery still higher, and, after (opening the sac, it must be completely prevented by pressure. This reatment must also be followed in wounds of arteries on the back of the i foot and in the sole (a). 1490. When the femoral artery is obliterated at the origin of the arteria J profunda, the blood passes from the branches of the internal iliac arteries into the circumflex arteries of the thigh, and by the descending branches f the a. profunda into the articular arteries, whence it passes into the runk of the femoral. If the obliteration occur in the lower third, the irculation is kept up, not merely by the anastomosis between the a. pro- iS funda and the arteries of the knee, but also by many anastomotic or a muscular branches. If a part of the popliteal artery, or even the origin >i of the upper or lower arteries of the knee be obliterated, the blood passes 4 by the anastomosis of the a. profunda into the upper, thence into the 4j lower arteries of the knee, and from them into the recurrent branches of ii the tibial arteries. [The following is Astley Cooper’s account (6) of the dissection of almost seven s - years after the femoral artery had been tied for popliteal aneurysm. “ The femoral j artery which is necessarily obliterated by the ligature, was here converted into a cord, ii from the origin of the arteria profunda down to the ham. The whole of the popliteal r artery was also changed into a similar substance ; and thus the natural channel of the [I blood from the groin to the lower part of the knee was entirely destroyed. The muscles $ therefore which usually receive blood vessels from the femoral artery, as the sartorius, * rectus and vasti, had no branches but from the arteria profunda and circumflex arteries; if, and the articular arteries from the popliteal, although they were still capable of receiv- >{< ing blood, derived it, not from the popliteal artery, but from the communicating vessels j of the profunda. The arteria profunda formed the new channel for the blood ; consi- k derably enlarged in its diameter, although still not equal in size to the femoral artery at the groin, it took its usual course to the back of the thigh on the inner side of the thigh bone, and sent branches of a larger size than usual to the flexor muscles of the leg, and :k just midway on the back of the thigh it began to send off those arteries which became u the support of the new circulation. The first artery sent off passed down close to the ■ back of the thigh-bone, and entered the two superior articular branches of the popliteal v artery, which vessels supply the upper part of the knee-joint. The second new large i vessel arising from the profunda at the same part with the former, passed down by the inner side of the biceps muscle, to an artery of the popliteal, which was distributed to f , gastrocnemius muscle. Whilst a third artery dividing into several branches, passed down with the sciatic nerve behind the knee joint, and some of its branches united them- selves with the inferior articular arteries of the popliteal, with some recurrent branches t l0SC ?rter*es> w*lh arteries passing to the yastrocnemii, and lastly with the origin of !• e anterior and posterior tibial arteries; and these new large communicating branches ■ were readily distinguished from others by their tortuous course. It appears then that is those brandies of the profunda which accompany the sciatic nerve, that are the P nrapal supporters of the new circulation. They were five in number, besides the two artenesiwhich do not accompany the nerve. The external circumflex was :0f ? fger tbaT\ usual for the supply of branches to the muscles on the fore part itlirl llg ’’ , U iad no branches for the new circulation. The obturator artery enlarrr ,ai>Pear ar8e[ than usual, and although much pains were taken to trace any vessefs l™nmUe1CatI-nS branches between the ischiatic arteries and profunda, yet no f capable of receiving so large an injection could be found.” (p. 254-56.)] («) Scarpa, p. 225.—Roux, Nouvenux Elcmens de Medeclne Oppratoire, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 698. (6) Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. ii. 1811.