LARDACEOUS TUMOURS. 713 ■ ; classed all circumscribed and painless swellings which are situated in the cellular tissue j beneath the skin, and formed of a more or less consistent substance, contained in a i proper sac, or in several spaces of the cellular tissue, distinguishes the wens which have ) a cyst into those formed of degenerated fat, which, deprived of its natural colour, ...i becomes white and hard, is contained in the expanded spaces of the cellular tissue, and i mixed with a greater or less quantity of lymph, ( Steatoma,) and into those, in which the f > fat retains its natural condition, and only acquires a greater degree of consistence r, {Lipoma.) But the substance of a steatome is not to be considered as merely degenerated 1 fat; it is distinguished, in addition to the difference of substance, by other relations of » its internal formation, and especially, as Boyer himself states, from fatty swellings, in that it exclusively possesses the ruinous peculiarity of degenerating into cancer. 2286. The external form of steatome is very various; although round, T it still exhibits different projections and irregularities ; its greatest extent is' in general immediately above its stem, which is commonly thinner, and v but rarely broader than the rest of the swelling. The tumour is heavy, does not yield to pressure, consists of several connected hillocky masses, in ii: the interspaces of which there is greater softness and yielding than on its top. The skin covering 'it is at first natural, movable, especially at its ,lneck, if the tumour be liable to dragging. At the neck of the swelling, Moftentimes one or several projecting cords are observed, which spread like roots beneath the skin ; and the latter, where corresponding to them, is •^ard, reddened, and ‘very tense. The growth of a steatome varies; ’in utgeneral it increases slowly, and at first its progress is accompanied with no -‘other inconvenience than that produced by the weight and dragging of the guswemng. ° 2287. As the growth of the tumour proceeds, the skin, earlier or later, : (reddens on the projecting parts, becomes tense, thinned and adhering! 1 Usually violent stabbing and burning pains attack the whole swelling I and spread into the neighbouring parts. The tumour at last bursts at ' fthis part, forms a dirty ulcer, from which a thin stinking ichor is dis- charged, together with the grayish remains of the steatome. The ulcer Spreads, and the same changes attack other parts of the swelling; often- times fungous growths spring from the ulcer, and frequent bleedings ’ ,ccur. The root-like cords on the neck of the steatome become harder; ‘ be neighbouring glands swell; the cancerous degeneration proceeds in | i directions, and the patient sinks under the continued violent pain of ;iectic consumption. 1 ' 228B. On examining a steatome, so long as the skin covering it is un- ! nTn n!d 1(leFenerati°n h,M IK)t yet begun, there is found beneath it, pretty thick layer of perfectly natural fat which penetrates the spaces ■ Cuemi S6VT ^ 6 SWelli"g- In this fa% ^s, there are . ; vel ly “ tumours, connected, however, with the principal u -welling. Beneath the layer of fat there is a pretty firm cellular > irrfin? thb tl,im0Ur- This cefiulo-fibrous capsule, I "o fillt Tfe lUIt" StrakS thT0Ugh the kyers of fat to the skin, is Iniurinr/it^tta.®he.d,to the steatome that it cannot be separated without Jd ti.° J’ 11 ,s.inks. (keply between the several parts of the swelling, ise either T8 th® tumours which, connected beneath each other, 1 Iteatomi^ JZ af paral]el direction, or disposed around the neck of the vren not T e[’ially ?°m 6ach 0ther‘ The tobes of the tumour, -irmLranTP y,bare °f celIular tissue and ftt, have considerable I rTSeve T,y th/ rej18tanCe 0f fibro-cartilage ; some of the lobes icallv T °ften SofJ and ela.stic- If the swelling be cut through ver- y’ ie Urination of the various cells or cavities by the.processes of the