CAROTID ANEURYSM. 233 □sued would soon have destroyed the patient, if the Surgeon had not immediately ^collected himself and tied the trunk of the artery. “ The operation was successful, and ... mnnv vesirs after it.” ( Jf ie patient lived many years after it” (a). li Abernethy’s operation ([b) was performed about 1798 or 9, on a man whose neck was <5 ored by a cow. The horn “ had passed beneath and torn the internal carotid artery, i'j ud all the branches in front of the external carotid artery. The former vessel was not, owever, entirely rent asunder, so that the general course of the artery, and its cou- rt exion with the cranium remained in the usual state.” (p. 117.) The vessels did not at )5 rst bleed, but soon did, but this was checked by pressure on the common carotid artery, a hich could not, however, be borne, and the patient’s struggles removing the pressure, ;>■ ‘peated bleedings ensued. The wound was therefore enlarged, the artery found and iu ed, but he died thirty hours after the ligature had been applied, (p. 125.) K Fleming (c) successfully.tied the carotid in 1803, for secondary bleeding, in a sailor jsiho had attempted to commit suicide. The wound had healed so rapidly that on the fiventh day the ligature was completely buried in granulation, and required removal i. r a cautious dissection.” (p. 4.) 3 ■ The common carotid artery was first tied by Astley Cooper (d), in November, 1805, »r aneurysm of the right carotid; the ligatures were drawn from the wound on the Seventh day, but the woman died on the nineteenth day, having suffered much from r fficulty in swallowing. He tied it in another case in June, 1808; the upper ligature fme away on the twenty-second, and the lower on the twenty-third day, and this patient covered. The account of the state of the vessels thirteen years afterwards will be and below. ^Travers (e) tied the carotid artery in the following year successfully for a case V aneurysm by anastomosis in the orbit, in a woman of thirty-four years of age. a The carotid artery has since been tied frequently with success; and there ?s one very interesting instance in which Dr. Robertson, of Edinburgh (/), operated in a case $ lere an aneurysm had burst into the oesophagus, and the space was so little, that the v teJ7 was taken UP only half an inch above the bifurcation of the arteria innominata: ligature came away on the seventeenth day, and the patient recovered. I Zeis, of Dresden (</), tied the carotid artery in an infant of fifteen months for a vas- J lar nccvus on the left side of the face. After having exposed the edges of the m. sterno- ■stozdeus, a vein, about the thickness of a quill, was found lying across the bottom of un wound; this he tied and divided. There was not any arterial haemorrhage, but 8rk venous blood oozed out, which was stopped by the application of kreosote water, i opening the sheath, and exposing the internal jugular vein, another large gush of >od ensued, and was stopped by kreosote water. The vein which had been tied swelled much as to excite fear of its bursting, and was therefore tied again higher up; after uch the artery was tied with a silk thread. The tumour immediately became smaller i paler, shrivelled up, and exhibited ,n various spots, a greenish yellow colour, like an tlT“ °f f?m fi7f, da7s standmg. On the fourth day the ligature on the vein and on the following night a considerable venous bleeding took place, which : : “ the Course of the next twenty-four hours, but each time was ested b> the kreosote water. On the evening of the eighth day the ligature came III It S Cfased’and after seventy-two days the wound had healed. Several t]?e °Peration, the tumour had increased with the nutrition of the body and ame very large, when the child cried. About a week before the complete heaW of f b7°-U|nd’!i!e chlldw.as attacked suddenly with convulsions and hemipleqia ofgthe *P ht side; these symptoms continued with increasine- debility ™ 7 J , 0 . ,e 1tie common trunk of the carotid artery may be performed at I ~,h,fere»‘ p|accs- «-«»■* to the different seat of t J , \ Wish.ht. Translation, note, p. t/) Dnblin Journal of Medical SSionce, Etc., vol. #9 Surgical Work.,, vol. ii. xn p.^Sp. ]838. ... *1 / M<taico-C:hinir(.icnl Journal, vol. iii n i Hi ' ,, ln“ air tliu gesammte Medicen, vol. # l iJ6?”0^Chirurgical Transact., vol. i.7 V U,\?"rt '• T- ) Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. i. p. 222. * 11 i? *^DIY8 un<^ Clarus, ]Jcit. zur prakt. F Iieilkunde. Leipz., vol. ii. p. 245.