LOWER JAW. 991 middle, and the extirpation performed on either side, as already directed ('Dupny- tken), (a). v [Samuel Cooper (b), after mentioning that Wepfer quotes a case of amputation of the lower jaw, which had occurred in his time, says, “ Mr. Anthony White, Surgeon to the Y\ estmiuster Hospital, removed at Cambridge a considerable portion of the bone for an osteosarcoma many years ago. Unfortunately the case was not published, so that the revival and execution of the operation are generally referred to Dupuytren who m 1812 performed his earliest excision of the lower jaw-bone.” (p. 275 ) In consequence of Samuel Cooper's statement, I was induced to inquire of my friend v\ HITE, for information in regard to his operation on the lower jaw, and I have much pleasure in communicating to the profession the following particulars, with which he has kindly furnished me, from which it appears, that he actually disarticulated the Mott jaW'bone from lts socket five years before Graefe, and six years previous to The following is White’s Case.—“ In the summer of 1816 I was requested to see a man, named Litchfield affppt11!? 1R,nhe rWn °f Cambridge, who for upwards of three years had been miserably affected with a disease of the. lower jaw, occupying the entire left cheek, and wholly incapacitating him from opening his mouth. He states, that in attempting to bridle his hWC1 S borse’ | ie aiumal, by an unexpected jerk of the head, struck him a violent and altLthVm)ver JT ’ ^ tbe part for a few weeks remained painful and swollen • ,d altkough after a lapse of time, the enlargement occasioned by the injury had eon- siderably diminished, yet a slight preternatural fulness and occasional pain Remained ,mo"ths fei; a rigidity in the motions of the jaw at its joints succeeded accent Ch Ah- an °a y accimlHllatlng and hard enlargement extending from the ear nearly to the chin. By degrees, the jaw wholly lost its powers of motion, and finally the teeth sraaTaht m y ^7 on,!hose °f.the uPPer jaw, which was followed by the formation of fm thflttf8 external,7 a’K 1Ilternally- Thin fluids, as milk and broths, have been nolUt i ■ years his only nourishment; and during this time he has been com- wh ch thiuthtw? alm°St,ere?t Posjure, on account of a perpetual internal discharge he wtlwA. 7 m 16 borizoVtal posture, poured down his throat, producing, when to thAr A • Ce?’ 3 ooustaut alarm of suffocation. The whole cheek, from the ear 1,7) b 7 down tke side of the nose to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the ItrA fart °f tle phln’ and afiain upwards to behind the lobe of the ear, presented one large ! S7l7AS‘feelim gr0wtb’ Studded witb many sinuse^ tlie Andings ff fh„t t! were dlfficult.t0 trace- Tke eye was so considerably projected from the socket ,hfithe-eyelVds,COU d c,over but a very small portion of the globe, and such was the rigid’ withinVt*for the 6 Cheek’ tlfiat nmdl- difficulty was experienced in introducing the finger noint of fhl ? parpos® of examining the disease internally. I discovered, howeve? a point of the jaw-bone bare within the cheek, and by pressure, perceiving an oZrI,™ Z iA°fltlWh0le Side’ 1 was induced t0 believe that the bone wlf ehhfr carious or t f „ .1;r‘>Uf,h0Ut 'tS .w'l|0le extent, although there had not been at any time the least exfoliation through either of the many sinuses. By repeated examination.! T i f, m.dead neighbour, might be restored to its important duties. I also considered fw ''S |the long-existing thickened and altered ctcto of 1 o , 0 considered that from in the University, Dr. ie assistance 1 am much 1 an^my^rs”o^e(rt'beingttAxpos7the^n^ iT" firmly.fixed on the side upon a pillow, nfrom the root of the nvnmS !™ r’ ibgan an lncislon> as near as 1 could guess I W ZI”. yg°mdt,C P,0CCSS °f the !fmporal bone> aad carried it oblffij 0f(^8DiCti0nary °f Practical Surgery. Kdition