632 URINARY STONES EXTERNAL TO THE URINARY PASSAGE. In rare cases the whole urethra has been so filled with stones up to its mouth, tb even the smallest sound could not he introduced. Under these circumstances the ureth must be opened at several parts, and if vesical stones be present, a cut made even iu the bladder itself (a). [If a stone be anywhere in front of the scrotum, it can most commonly, and should extracted without cutting; for, as Liston very justly observes, “ owing to the thinne of the coverings, it will be found a most difficult matter to close entirely any openii anterior to the scrotum.” (p. 520.) I have frequently succeeded, by following the advice the younger Cline, in getting out a stone so lodged, though at first the attempt seem very unpromising, by a very simple contrivance, but persevered in with patience. Tl. consists, in first nipping the urethra tightly behind the stone, so as to prevent it slippii backwards, and then introducing an eyed probe, with its eyed end a little bent, so to form a sort of spoon or loop; it is to be gently insinuated between the wall of t! urethra and the stone, till its point have got completely behind the latter. Then pressii the stone forwards with the thumb and finger, which grasps the urethra, the probe gently and by little jerks to be drawn forwards, bringing with it the stone, which to be closely followed with the thumb and finger of the other hand. By thus proceed ing with patience, the stone is after some time brought up to the glans, and if the lijljf of the urethra be there too narrow to allow its passage, the urethra may be cut throug by the side of the frcenum with a lancet, and the stone is immediately set free. Should I meet with a case of this kind in which I was foiled, I am inclined to thin that, rather than cut on the stone from without, I should pass a phimosis-knife don the urethra to the stone, and cut through its lining membrane into the spongy bod of the penis sufficiently to enable the stone to move forwards, running the risk of infi tration of urine, which I should not much dread, by passing a catheter occasionall during the day to draw off the urine, or leaving it in, so that the water might flo away constantly. If infiltration did not ensue, there would probably be some temporal, narrowing of the urethra, which might be cured by perseverance in the use of bougie: Anything is better than an urinary fistula, which becomes the more serious in propo: tion as the urethra is opened near the front of the scrotum, in consequence of the read, ness with which the urine will escape into the loose cellular tissue of that part, causin troublesome abscesses and even gangrene.—J. F. S.] VI.—OF URINARY STONES EXTERNAL TO THE URINARY PASSAGE. 2145. Stones which are found external to the urethra, in the neighbour ing cellular tissue of the perinceum, ( perinceal stories,') or in the scrotum (,scrotal stones,) are either such as have been deposited in the cellulal tissue by the destruction of the walls of the urethra, and have grown by the continual deposition of the phosphates, or have been produced by thfl penetration of the urine into clefts of the urethra, into fistulas, wounds, am the like, into the cellular tissue itself. If the urine penetrate into severa spaces of the cellular tissue, several stones may be formed at the samw time. Such stones are easily distinguished by hard, nearly painless-^ frequently very large, swelling; often by the introduction of a sounc into the urethra, when they partially project into it. They frequent!} i cause suppuration and fistulous passages, through which a metal souni easily finds the stone. They are not rarely discharged by suppuration in consequence of which incurable fistulas remain, if the wall of the *| urethra have been destroyed to any great extent (1). By the destruction of the walls of the vagina in women, and of the rectum in men’ll vesical stones may lodge in these cavities and be discharged. _ , ^ I [(1) A very remarkable instance of a large collection of perinxal stones occurrefll Vincent (h) in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in 1843. A young man, twenty-three y j of age, suffered from incontinence of urine during the ten previous years,m I quence of having received at that time a kick on the penis from a horse; for this M^ constantly worn a yoke. Four years after he had bleeding from the urethra, wine • , followed by a swelling behind the scrotum, and this, at the period of his admission, n (а) Ki.ein, in Ncuen Chiron., vol. i. p. 78. (б) Tavlok’s Catalogue of Calculi, above quoted. Appendix. J. * u ee. v eL'S J 4 Br