FATTY Oil ADIPOSE TUMOUKS; 692 circumstance in this man’s case, that notwithstanding this bulky protuberance, he had done his duty on shipboard till within a few days of his admission. The tumour is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. Lawrence (a) mentions that a French Surgeon removed a fatty tumour from the left hypochondrion, which weighed forty-six pounds, and was one of eight in the same person, the others of which, however, were not so large.: Portalupi (b), of Venice, removed a large pyriform fatty swelling which hung from the left side of the neck and chest; measured in length twenty inches and a half,'twenty- seven inches around its upper narrower part, and thirty inches below, and weighed fifty-two pounds; no blood-vessel of size was divided, nor was any ligature required; and in the course of seven weeks, the patient was cured. Although generally seated almost immediately beneath the skin^these fatty tumours are sometimes situated beneath the muscles, and then give rise to much difficulty in diagnosis, of which Brodie mentions a good example, where the tumour was beneath the trapezius; in another case the fatty mass was behind the gland of the breast, • which it had lifted up, and caused great doubt as to the character of the disease, till explained by the operation. He also mentions a case in which a large tumour in the scrotum lay. behind the testicle, but quite distinct from it, and gave the impression of being an omental hernia-; it was, however, determined to operate on it, and it was then discovered to be a fatty tumour connected with the spermatic cord within the abdominal ring, which as it had grown, descendedi into the scrotum, (p. 271.) Among the rarest situations of fatty tumours, the tongue may be mentioned: in the! Museum of the College of Surgeons there is a specimen of a small lobulated fatty swell-1 ing which had been removed from that organ.] 2245. The causes of fatty tumours are unknown. Rarely can they be » ascribed to pressure, blows, or any other violence. They are seen at all a ages and in both sexes, though most frequently in adults ; they seem also to ' be more frequent in females, though without any relation to menstruation. They generally occur on the shoulders, upon the back and on the neck; but are, however, observed' on other parts, and even on such as have natu- rally very little disposition, to fat. Oftentimes several fatty tumours occur, < even in considerable number in the same individual. Not unfrequently is a fatty tumour congenital, and then often acquires considerable size ; in this case too, sometimes the general coverings are more jor less altered, loosened up, dusky coloured, beset with large quantities of and longer hair >' than natur al. Such have been named by Walthkr fatty mother-marks (Naums maternus lipomatodes, Lat.; Fettmuttermahl, Germ.) The dis- H ease also usually spreads after birth to a considerable extent. 2246. Fatty tumours are always to be considered important diseases, as » they enlarge very quickly, spread, and run into ill-conditioned ulcers (*)■ 1 Small swellings may indeed in. many instances be dispersed by the app cation of gum ammoniac dissolved in vinegar of squills, by rubbing in 1 ox gall, nut oil, and liquor of acetate of ammonia (2). Their reniova i with the knife is, however, generally the only certain mode of treatmen. This operation is easy and without any danger in those fatty turn \ which have a broad base; but it may be difficult and dangerous if ■ swelling be of great extent, lie in the neighbourhood of important parts? or if it have deeply-stretching roots. Under these circumstances, it is no often possible to remove all the degeneration, even with the greatest » ^ so that either the fatty growth begins anew, ora long-continued u : ^ ditioned suppuration ensues, and even fistulas, which remain throug ^ life. Not unfrequently the general formative action appears to ^ increased by the operation, as often not only in the neighbourhood o ^ part operated on, but. also in distant parts, where previously no nPoma t0 existed, it sprouts forth. It must also not be forgotten, in referen l* vol xxvii*- ®# Ca) Lectures on Surgery ; in 1-ancet. 1829-30 ; (6) Omodei, Annali Universal?, ■wol. i. p. y<>9. P- 18-3,