827 OF CANCEROUS WOMB. 2527. According to Dubled (a), cafter the neck of the womb has been seized and drawn down to the entrance of the vagina, the upper and fore part of the latter must be cut through, the opening enlarged with the finger, and the peritoneum stripped off; and the same must be done on the hind part. A ligature is then passed over the free edges of the lateral ligament, and that part of the latter surrounded which encloses the vessels of the womb, after which the lateral ligaments are cut throuo-h The womb is then easily thrust down, and its diseased part cut through by a transverse cut, without interfering with its fundus. The patient died twenty-two hours after this operation. 2528. Recamier (b) proposed a mode of proceeding, which like that of Sauter is specially distinguished by avoidance of bleeding, and in one case with success, the patient being cured on the forty-third day. Clysters were given on the evening and morning before the operation. The patient was placed as in the operation for the stone, and the neck of the womb having been seized with Museux’s forceps, was drawn down as low as possible. The vagina was then cut through with a convex button-ended bistoury introduced on the left forefinger, on the fore and under part of the swelling. The cellular tissue between the bladder and womb was separated with the left forefinger up to the folds of the peritoneum, and the convex bistoury passed along the finger, following the upper surface of the womb, opened the peritoneum, into the cavity of which the finger was intro- duced upon the body of the womb. With a straight button-ended hernial knife, introduced in the same way, this opening was enlarged right and left till two fingers could be readily placed upon the body of the womb so as to tZ m •CiWy d°Wn- With the sa™ knife the two upper tS of he left broad ligament were cut into close to the left side of the womb and immediately after the right broad ligament in the same way, the left fore- finger carrying in the bistoury. The left forefinger was now passed behind outerTnTf'Sr °f fHe ng,ht br.0ad ]'gament> and the thumb placed on its carried round6 ffwith0 ^ ^^ k Wa§ S^sped, and a thread Sthknlt f 1 r H neG,dle haVlnS a stem and an eye at its point modeiK I 6 h?anT the Uterine artery was found, taken up and tied S d off f a lr~tieu • The same was afte™ds doae onthe before the r . f forefinger being now placed behind and the thumb before the ligature, the rest of the broad ligaments were cut tl.Jk from above downwards anrl fw b i c i 7^ directed obliquely the upper and hinder pit of Bo^Zn8;-0"' ,hrouBh at hst npwards, and with fhpir flironri 1 m loth loop-tiers were now turned bowel proZTthey 1*Z ? 7°" ?e pubeS- If the omentum or symptoms whidiltoccurathIf6trheand ^ mUSt corresPonTtoThe •tone of .uWmTter 1m C” b<J °f bad kM’ "jec- caonot!'accordira °JJj” li8*ment. th« little artery of tho ovary ng to Recamier, well g.ve rise to bleeding on account of the exteus2 O Journal Ilebdomadairc, vol. vli. p 123 \\ .. , , . » vu. p. (/>; Above cited, vol. i. p. 519, i