1006 RESECTION OF THE RIBS. In a patient of Lizars’s (a), the outer half of the clavicle was torn away, as well as the arm and scapula; a ligature was placed on the subclavian artery, which had bled but little, and the patient rapidly recovered. A similar case did equally well under the care of Cartwright (6). V.—Of Resection of the Ribs. 2855. Resection of the ribs, which has often been performed for in- curable disease restricted to the bone, as in caries and bony tumours, (Percy, Cittadini, Richerand, Milton, Antony, Mott, Clot- Bey, Jaeger, Textor,) requires the rib to be laid bare by a longitu- dinal or transverse cut; the intercostal muscles are then divided by a cut first at their upper and afterwards at their lower edge close to the bone, and the intercostal artery tied if it bleed. The pleura is then separated with a blunt needle and the rib cut off with an osteotome, which, in con- sequence of its sheath, best ensures the pleura from wound. The wound is to be lightly filled with lint or German tinder, and treated in the usual way. Iu compound comminuted fractures of the ribs, the removal of the ends of the bone with the saw may be necessary; though here the greatest caution is always requisite to avoid injuring the pleura, which is closely connected with the rib, whilst in caries the pleura is generally thickened, and in part also separated from the rib. In a case where about an inch-and-a-half of the ninth rib had been removed, Tex- tor found a mass of new bone at the place where the removal had been made, although caries had extended backwards to a considerable extent, the whole of the diseased part not having been completely removed. [Warren (c) removed, in January, 1836, a large, hard, immovable tumour, with a fistulous opening, and situated on the junction of the sixth and seventh ribs with their cartilages, which had existed about four years. He made an oblique cut over the swelling, and at each end of it another at right angles, so as to form two quadrilateral flaps which being turned back, a firm cartilaginous substance was exposed, that had destroyed the natural appearance of the parts. This was removed, partly by shaving off with the scalpel, partly by bits with the cutting forceps, and both ribs were then found carious. These were carefully detached by a probe from the pleura, which was much thickened, and from the diaphragm, and three inches of the seventh rib with its cartilages, with two inches of the sixth, were removed by the chain saw and cutting forceps There was little bleeding, the intercostal arteries having been obliterated in the course of the disease. He recovered. Warren also removed in March, 1837, an osteosarcomatous tumour, circular, above six inches in diameter,tand three in height, covering parts of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, attached to all, but most firmly to the ninth. It had been growing six years. A T cut 'vas made through the skin, and the flaps having been turned back, the insertions of the external oblique muscle were exposed and dissected off, as was also the m. latissimus dorsi, which latter was divided with some difficulty, and excessive pain. The tumour then found originating from the ninth, but firmly connected with the seventh, eighth, and tenth ribs, was then cut off from the former about an inch distant from its junction with its cartilage. 1 he intercostals were then cut through, the diaphragm carefully separated from the nb and pleura, a director passed under t\\e points where the rib was to be divided, and this done with cutting forceps, removing about two inches of the bone, and a part of its cartilage ; upon which the diaphragm immediately rose up like a hernia. There was little bleeding, „i,fi no vessel reauired tying. This case did well. DiMN(d)rmoved the cartilage of the tenth rib of the leftside, which had been broken off two years previously, and from a few weeks after had caused severe neuralgia. at first in the part and then over the region of the stomach, and had become almost un- bearable A careful dissection exposed the cartilage unattached; it was easily removed, the pain immediately ceased, and the patient completely recovered in the course of a week. (n) Fergtisson’s Practical Surgery, p. 235. ((,) Ferguas°n,^p.)235.^ ^ Quarterly Journal, No. I.-Lancct. 13J9-40; p. 137. (r) lloston Medical and Surgical Journal. 183»« —Lancet. 1837-38; vol. ii. p. 606.