320 STRICTURE OF TIIE or bronchi, and a communication may be produced between them, in which case most violent cough, choking on every attempt to swallow, and haemorrhage are produced. I have seen one case of callous stricture in a man sixty-three years old, in which there was a communication between the right bronchus and the oesophagus. Meyer (a) relates an instance of strictured oesophagus with a communication between the left bronchus and the oesophagus. Genduin' (b) communicates two cases of narrowing of the , oesophaqus at the region of the cricoid cartilage, in which there was also a fistulou* orifice into the trachea, and cough in swallowing, vomiting fluids, speaking through the nose in consequence of the changed direction given to the air. 1599. In narrowing of the oesophagus from fungous growths, fluid? usually pass with more difficulty than solids ; if the food be again throve up it is usually mixed with bloody mucus, and membranous fibres, which even on examination with the sound, present a yielding obstacle and become ^'leoo! The compression of the oesophagus by swellings of any kind in it: j neighbourhood, can be ascertained by careful examination of the neck a O _ « • - I. lib ibn .—nl* ♦ V*nen tnmmiw the difficulty of swallowing corsesponds with the growth ot these tumours a , J i :n T-oarlllir In this disease than in stricture** tne UlinuuiLy Ui r . ,, . ... an oesophagus sound will pass more readily in this disease than m stricture If such swellings be seated in the chest, the diagnosis is also mor doubtful. See also in Kunze (c) the different observations on these swellings. ■ Here also belongs the so-called Dysphagia lusona depending on the unnatural araJ f +iio snhelaviau 'artery by which the oesophagus is compressed. Bayford (i) and hi. observations have been conSrnied to «J»r , (Richter (e), Valentin (/), Autenrieth) (fir)- BJ' some this cause of •; rlm Ll f Fleischmann (A), Rudolphi,) because the unnatural course of the sal HI ,s demed, (hLEiscHMAN t , without this disease; and this notion is settled b. tl'Z EiN ays he origL of ffie dysphagy in this unnatural course of the subclava : , I SC+prv d^nends on whether the artery pass before the trachea, between it and tl - rLmul or between it and the spinal column, in which latter case the disease mu f rt ’ The inconvenience first appears at the period of puberty, or on thesa ! take plM ^ he “Sn * hen the congestion towards the chest is greater. Tl •.« KZs Lr°Stat PpiIti.n and danger of suffocation on every attempt* aceompankd rvith ^mulons tow;*** W- > .hftoSSSSufeSce is in ™»Uowi5e alone, and even thenota- . I*"l601. The spasmodic stricture of the esophagus is usually seatedmo at the lower Jt towards the stomach, ! ' tion of'“the tying together a fast-fixed’substance ; sometimes the orffOtM tion oi tnc iyi >D o _ ;n cnnsmod c tension; the ei >1 swallowing and the “muscles of the neck are in spasmodic tension ; the* is increased by cold drinks, and diminished by hot ones. It » panied with spasmodic symptoms in other organs, qualmishness, \oi IZX, secretion of a watery mucus, not unfrequently symptoms of ^ d .. ” i’ of speech, and the like. The spasm frequently interim-, St o iritowevcr, continue for a long while .which rend# jiTlosis difficult; and also that, probably, during this long conunwa ■ membranous stricture (par. 1594) will be produced. If pasmbead , to organic stricture, the symptoms will be quickly increased. Vereiimeitung fur Preussen, 1836, (a)_Med ^ fit'journal des Connalssancea MedlM-Chiiurgi- Cvol! kSi l839 ; Oestr. medicin. Jalirbilcher, vol. xxvii. pt- 2. (r) Above cited. (/,) None Schriften dcr Krlanger pliys. med. Gescllsch (d) Memoirs of the Medical Society of I*** (e) Chirurgische Bibliothek, vol• P (/) Journal de Mcdecine, Chirurgie, "'(s’)6 Pdciderer (Prats. AOTtNWETH) Dysphagia lusoria. Tubing.* 180o. * vol. ih