CUTTING FOR THE STONE ; 608 letting or other depleting means, though such necessity may possibly occur, but ordinary cases they are unneedful and improper. An occasional clearing of the bow< ■ is, however, requisite; and if the patient have been accustomed to take gin and water, f promoting the action of the kidneys, a practice, with regard to ,young stone-patiei especially^ very prevalent, it will be well not to deprive him of it at once, or he w become fidgetty and uncomfortable, but to diminish it slowly, or even to continue i use. e. Under ordinary circumstances, a stone-patient should not be operated on, except 1 health be otherwise good. His sufferings from the disease itself will call for the pe formance of the operation. The state of the atmosphere should, as far as possible, considered. Temperate weather is the most favourable; for if it be very hot, t patient, in the weak state he usually is after the operation, suffers much from its d- pressing effects; and if it be very cold, he is liable to chill in the necessary freque uncovering to which he must be subjected to keep him dry during the after-treatmem On the day previous to the operation, a dose of castor oil should be given to clear tl bowels, and the diet restricted to rice pudding and milk, with plenty of barley wat or gruel, but the former of the two is most preferred. If the motions be hard ai lumpy, castor oil is added to an injection of gruel, which must he thrown up on tl morning of the operation, but if not, a simple injection of gruel is sufficient for the pu pose of completely relieving the lower bowel. . 1 Immediately after the operation, the patient is put to bed, with his legs straight ar close together, by which the surfaces of the wound are brought gently together, and ai slight disposition to bleeding checked. A napkin is passed round the pelvis, and brougi up between the legs, in the same way as healthy infants are commonly clouted. As is of great importance that the patient should be kept dry, the napkin is changed ever time any urine passes by the wound, and attention is paid to this through the who course of the treatment. On the evening of the operation day, or the following mon ing, if there be no bleeding, a piece of lint, folded on the end of the finger, is introduce, into the wound, and pressed up the depth of the perinceum; this is also replaced ever time the patient wets, and is continued till the wound heals ; its object is to ensure tl healing of the wound from the bottom, so as to prevent, as far as possible, the prodm: tion of any fistulous passage, which, under this treatment, is of very rare occurrence A handful or two of camomile flowers thrown into a basin, are sprinkled with spirits < wine, well mixed, so as to be equally moistened, and then put into a thin flannel hag and, having been well heated on a warming-pan, are applied over the belly as hot t the patient can bear, on the evening of the operation day, if there be no bleeding; an this is continued for a week or ten days. If, as sometimes happens, on the second da the wound be swollen, and the urine do not flow through it, no lint is introduced, out bread-and-water poultice applied, and, as the swelling subsides, the water'escapes by tb wound Such is the usual mode of proceeding, and neither is the bed guarded wit oiled silk, nor cold sponge, nor any other cold applied even though there were bleeding Rarely, except under particular circumstances, is any opiate given throughout the cur. The diet for the first two or three days should consist merely of rice or sago pudding biscuit, toast and tea, or arrow root and milk, with a plentiful supply of barley As the bowels had been freely relieved, it is unnecessary to give any medicine Deron the third day, and then only a little castor oil to act gently. But if there be paint the belly, or sickness, then the oil must be given earlier, and usually it subsides wue the bowels are moved. The urine at first passes frequently by the wound; but usuau about the third or fourth day also comes by the urethra; and as more continues op*-, by the latter, so does less escape by the former, and, in about a week or ten days, wound of the prostate having healed, the water passes only by the natural P^sage; m when this happens, the wound is dressed with wax and oil upon the lint introduced, before. In one instance I have known the water cease to pass from the wound mw twenty hours, but this is a rare occurrence. Generally, when the water does 1 first flow from the wound, the patient becomes irritable and uneasy, and it is we j introduce the finger, so as to break up any little clot which may stop up the w after which it usually escapes freely. Occasionally it may be necessary to resum ( gin and water, if the patient flag, which, however, the Surgeon himself will attui reviewing the state of the health. The patient should be kept in bed some da. - the water has ceased to flow by the wound, or, iu other words, till it is neari) to the surface. If a small sinus should continue open, it is well to twist up a piece of lint corresponding to its size, which should be dipped in a soiuUon of f ^ , of copper, and gently screwed up to its bottom; but, m most cases, a simple dre. g wax and oil is all that is needed. Commonly, in from three weeks to a month, tb ,