518 URINARY STONE, [(1) Silica and iron cannot be said to be general constituents of stones, as they never \ form an entire stone, and they have only been detected in very minute quantities in i some few instances. (2) By acid phosphate of lime is meant, not the super-phosphate, but the neutral or d di-phosphate of lime, the “ phosphate acidule de cliaux" of Fourcroy. Berzelius has i commented upon the absurdity of the French chemist describing a solid concretion as ( composed of an acid phosphate of lime. His criticism, however, is only partially cor- | rect. The fact is, when the di-phosphate of lime calculus is digested with water, it is j decomposed into an insoluble sub-phosphate, and a soluble super-phosphate, which ol | course possesses an acid reaction. It was from observing this latter fact that led Four- I croy into the error of describing these concretions as composed of a super-phosphate ol ti lime. Di-phosphate of lime constitutes the occidental bezoar, an intestinal concretion l 4 found in the stomach, &c., of the deer of South America (a). (3) “ Calculi, from the human subject, composed entirely of carbonate of lime, are- § of extremely rare occurrence, and have been noticed only by a few authors. The" b existence of such concretions was first pointed out by Brucnatelli (b), who describes j forty-eight small concretions, which were extracted from the bladder of a young maiu I They were each about the size of a pea, possessed a lamellar structure, and broke with r a shining surface. The same author also mentions several ash-coloured calculi com-: posed of carbonate of lime, with a trace of carbonate of iron, that were taken after i death from the bladder of a woman. Dr. Prout (c) has also seen small calculi of this ; salt which were ‘ perfectly white and very friable.’ A remarkable collection of these- culculi is in the possession of R. Smith, of Bristol; * * * “ five were extracted by the lateral operation from the bladder of a boy aged sixteen, by H. Sully, and the others, fifteen in number, were passed by the urethra of the same patient previous to the t operation. The former are exceedingly irregular in figure, their external surface is rough, and is dusted over with a white powder. The largest of these calculi was about the size and figure of a large almond; when sawn through, it did not appear to con- sist of concentric layers, but exhibited irregular waved lines of various shades ol brown, resembling very closely the section of a compact mulberry calculus. It was so extremely hard as to require a lapidary’s wheel to divide it, and the cut surface readily acquired a fine polish. The calculi that were passed by the urethra are about the size of peas, of a rounded figure, with flattened surfaces. They present a compact lamellar-* structure, and their external surface is of a light brown colour” (d).—T. T.] Uric Acid and Urate of Ammonia. 1989. According to the experiments of Prout and L. Gmelin, it b extremely probable that uric acid does not occur, as Wetzlar asserts, combined with soda ; but in combination with ammonia. Also, that the acid property of the urine does not depend on free lactic or acetic acid, but on acid phosphate of ammonia, which salt keeps the phosphate of lime in-' a state of solution (c). That the circumstances stated by Magendie, to wit, the absolutely or relatively increased quantity of uric acid, and dimi- nished temperature of the urine, is the cause of the precipitation of the uric acid, Wetzlar has indeed too confidently denied ; since uric aci , when, from its being in excess, it is free, and not combined with ammonia, must, on account of its insolubility, be disposed to precipitation.. 1 hat the sediment of uric acid in critical urine takes place only when it is cooling* may be readily explained by the ammoniacal state of the urine, which exists in such cases. Perhaps the precipitation of the uric acid is rarely the result of its increased quantity, and rather to be met with i® gravel than in the actual formation of stone ; and the doctrine laid down* by Prout is more commonly correct, namely, that the uric acid is of en precipitated only because another free acid, as the phosphoric, sulphuric^ hydrochloric or carbonic, purpuric or acetic is produced. In consequen (it) Taylor's Catalogue, pari ii. p. 252. (b) Litologia Uinana—Archiv. Con. rte Med. 181'.', vol. iii. p. 444. c) Above cited, p. 93. ,« it) Taylors Catalogue, part i- PP- 1 e) Ileiilelb. Jahtbiicher 1823. r>°-