METATARSAL BONES. 951 finger to the bone which bounds the tarsus, glides it from the toes to the ankle and acquaints himself with the projections which the connexion of the metatarsal and tarsal bones form at some parts. He marks the place of the joint with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, places the edge of the knife behind the hind end of the fifth metatarsal bone, passes over the dorsal surface of the foot, at first from behind forwards, then from before backwards, and thus makes a semicircular cut which5 ends half an inch before the pit observed at the side of the joint of the cunei- form with the metatarsal bone. The knife is brought back again into the wound from within outwards, whilst an assistant draws the skin back towards the ankle, and thus the extensor tendons of the toes of both the j m- peroneus longus and brevis, the artery, and so on, are cut through. The operator now brings the point of the knife vertically behind the hind Eend of the fifth metatarsal bone, directs it inwards and forwards, cuts through the joint of the two last metatarsal bones, and divides the liga- 1 ™ents transversely. He now leaves this part and turns to the inside of ?he ' foot, and here directing the point of the knife upwards, and its edge out- j.; wards, cuts through the ligaments from below upwards, and from behind ! forwards, and penetrates the space between the bones, in the direction of ■a f'ne running to the middle of the fifth metatarsal bone. To disjoint the i second metatarsal bone, the knife performs a rotatory movement and its i edge is directed forwards. The operator brings the point obliquely from h below upwards, between the great cuneiform and the second metatarsal bone, and divides the soft parts near its inner edge, then raises the handle ■ the krnfe> cu.ts through the ligaments, and thus gets to the hind part of e the mortise which the second forms with the other cuneiform bones. He now again, holding the knife as usual, directs the point from without in- wards, and cuts through the dorsal ligaments without penetrating the joint • 1 *°r _the separation of the upper surface of the bones thereby connected a a Iu^reSSUre °f the left liancl uPon tlie end of the foot is sufficient, ’if he fibrous parts oppose the dislocation of the metatarsal bones they must be gradually cut through. The foot is now to be held horizontally between •adduction and abduction, and the Surgeon cuts through the plantar lio-a ments of the joint, separates the soft parts from the hinder ends of the metatarsus, carries the knife round them, cuts close to the lower surface ' ■> the row of bones, and forms, by cutting out obliquely, a flap, which on its inner side is two, and on the outer side, only one inch long1 If the left foot be operated on, the operator stands on the outside of the limb, cuts from the tibial to the fibular edge, and proceeds with thl r Operation as directed. 8 ’ Precis with the I MheXCt'd bill' S. »m 'XieMl W’ X- * >»"* *»° ■ ion on tbe first metatarsal bone, S be£“ft ttS* The projec- v Pastett-",h" bmS'bv “‘Tm SnlZm Z;/rtr‘°^K p,"”V. ’I*™ the projection I hrouffh with the (Ip if T bf l slU cartilaginous, this process should be cut ®prtlcula.ti°n the single metatarsal hones, must be tones whilsf that^fH °f the thl’ee °r W °uter metatarsal nes, whilst that of the great toe is preserved : second, the exarticulation