256 TYING THE INTERNAL ILIAC the division of the outer and under parts be facilitated. If there be not any diseased thickening, the separation is easy 1 but.if there be, the bistoury must be used with the greatest care. The pentonvum with the now to be borne upwards, and being kept in that position with TsKitul. by an assistant, the linger is to be earned down to he artery which lies in a position corresponding with the cut Below the arteryand a little inwards, the accompanying vein lies ; and at the lower anwle of the wound pass branches of the .bo-lumbar artery and veins. The sheath of the artery must be torn with the nail of the fo efinger, or with *e handle of the scalpel, according as it is thinner or hieker; the artery is then isolated, and the needle carried round it, whilst tfcd vein is pressed inwards (a). . ,, , + fitni inoTies lone beginning immediately above the external abdo- Mott made a cut five incheslong, oegm B half Jan inch above Poupabt'h minal ring, and continued 1 hip-bone; he then divided the external ^ tte Sw^fte'^ver^”"tough the thme abdominal muscles, and separated ft. peritoncBum. m Die cu(- should be commenced from the upper and front According to Anderson (&), the p0Upart’s ligament, parallel with it, ■pin? * SbX?sKlb“e™"eaXewhat Upwards, so that His far continue . tjiroUrrh the three abdominal muscles, and so on. inches long, cu!t,ngn,‘ l|‘fnt an inch from the upper front spine of the hip-bone, pro- SALAMONmadeacutabout^nm ^ ^ VV tQ the epigastric artery ceeding at similar heig: i ^ bdow last false rib, and from four to four and rhTSeflong The division of the abdominal muscles and transversal fasew, If an aneurysm be situated on a branch of the internal iliac arteryf to^wit, on fcfeTlcS indicated, as the practice fol J f]ie gac and tying the artery aneurysm arisiidangerous, and only in few cases above and below the won > (d) tied the internal iliac artery for tahil!e‘Seu^rand Mott's eases were unfortunate, but xi,„ ntber two had the happiest result (1). . preparation is in Guy s Museum (t).] # • l n-th is is to be carried round it with an aneurysmal needle, r„\ Dietrich, above cited, p. 288. (b) System of Surgical Anatomy, p- L M Principles of Surgery, vol.i. p.4-1. yj. Medic-Chir. Trans, vol. V. p. 4-2. $ London Medical and Phys. Journal, vol. xxxvlii. 1816. (f) American Journal of Medical Sciences, vob p. 304. 1828. _ (a) Ibid., vol. xx. p. i, *»»• p,. (),) Averilu’s Operative Surgery, P- • (i) Med.-Clur. Trans., vol. xvi. p.