483 TAPPING. I ascites, the front wall of the belly is in general most considerably |L{ended,' and the straight muscles become much broader, there is not I frequently danger in making the puncture at the spot mentioned, of ufounding either a part of the belly where the muscles are thicker, or the ligastric artery, or one of its branches. On this account the puncture on j lewhite line, two or three inches below the navel, where the walls of the r; dly are generally thinnest, and no injury of any one artery is to be feared, iu preferable (a). * [According to Astley Cooper (b) we, at least in England, are indebted to the elder o'! line for the adoption, if not the proposal, of tapping in the white line. “ His reason io r this change was, that in the spreading of the abdominal muscles from the pressure i. the water, the epigastric artery is brought into a situation of risk of being wounded i • the trocar. This happened to him in tapping a person in SL Thomas’s Hospital: j. ,rid blood issued through the canula, and the quantity gradually increased as the Hater flowed: as the patient was becoming faint, he withdrew the canula, and closed is e wound, but the bleeding continued into the abdomen, and the man died; upon inspec- | mthe epigastric artery was found wounded.” (p. 381.)] 1916. When decided hardening of the bowels is felt, another, and indeed 0 le most distinctly fluctuating part is to be chosen : in encysted dropsy rnt, where the fluctuation is the most strong, care, however, being always ■i iken to avoid the epigastric artery; the navel, if its surface be distended ke a bladder; the scrotum, if there be a rupture-sac without gut or ty mentum; the vagina, when, by the pressure of the water, it is protruded. 6 n the latter two cases, care must, however, be taken that a piece of gut r amentum have not united with the rupture-sac, and that the protrusion f the vagina have not been caused by the bowels, especially by the urinary it ladder (<?). 1917. The patient is to be put into a half sitting posture, but, if very fl 'eak, he must be laid more horizontally on a bed, with the part where the 1 peration is to be performed towards its edge (1). A broad belly bandage, aving a four-cornered hole opposite the part to be punctured, is then 0 pplied and drawn rather tightly upon the back by assistants. The > perator holds a trocar of proper thickness, and furnished with a silver anula in his right hand, so that the forefinger stretches along the latter, II o about an inch and a half of the point of the trocar, which he pushes in 1 nth a rotatory motion and rather obliquely through the walls of the 1 ’dly, the thumb of the left hand being placed below the point of punc- ure- _ A diminution of the obstruction shows that the trocar has entered | afficiently deep, and then the operator, with the finger of his left hand, ixes and holds fast the canula at the edge of the perforated skin, with the 'tner hand draws out the trocar and allows the water to escape, the a ssistants generally tightening the belly-bandage in proportion, whilst nother assistant, with both his hands spread upon the sides of the belly, s noderately compresses it. If the quantity of water be large, the mouth of I >e canula should be frequently closed with the finger, or otherwise an J1 'verloading of the blood vessels of the belly and fainting will quickly •ccur. If the flow of water should be checked by the clogging of the I ^fnu , or anything lie against its inner end, either a probe must be I. r0f(!uced or a thinner canula, closed at its end but with openings on I ?'le» or ^ie direction of the canula already introduced must be changed, I 1 must be withdrawn a little. If the operation be performed on an i uwervAMUE''’ Dictionary of Practical (ft) Lectures on Surgery, by Tyrrcli., vol. ii. ’ fi‘ B1, (c) Zanq, Opcrationen, vol. iii. p. 2!)5. 2 x 2