STONE IN THE KIDNEYS; TREATMENT. 542 the form of one of the infundibula of the kidney, was projected with no small degre i ■& of force, and the urine flowed in a full stream.” (p. 233.) Instances of abscesses in the loins, by which stones from the kidney have been eitlie | extracted or discharged, are mentioned by Hevin (a), and by Astley Cooper, in whos u patient they were composed of the ammonia-magnesian phosphate (b). Broijik als ,: mentions the case of a woman who had abscess in the loin, which after death was foun« communicating with a large collection of irregular-shaped stones in the kidney (c). I | A stone remaining in the kidney may be snapped in two by the person making us i ’ " ' " * Ixfl of any unaccustomed exertion, of which my friend Crisp has mentioned to me th following example :—A medical man whilst jumping over a flower bed, dropped dowi I suddenly with intense pain in the loin, which continued for two or three hours. H died a few months after of heart disease and other lesions, and on examination of hi body, a stone was found in the kidney of irregular oblong form, which was sepa transversely into two nearly equal halves.—J. F. S.] 2017. The treatment, when the object is the solution of the renal stone or the getting rid of the disposition to lithogenesis, must be guided b\ the rules already laid down (par. 2011-13.) It is in general confinei only to lessening the symptoms, by blood-letting, mild mucilaginous drinks antispasmodic remedies, baths, rubbings and the like (1). The removal of the stone by cutting (Nephrotomia) can only be undertaken, when an cedematous, or fluctuating swelling, or a fistula has. formed in the loins. Having opened the abscess, its bottom must be ex- amined with the finger or the probe, and if a stone be met with it must be removed, after enlarging the wound, if it be too confined. If there « be a fistula leading down to a stone, it must be properly enlarged with sponge tent or with a bistoury. If the stone be fixed, its extraction must be postponed till it has become somewhat loose. Oftentimes a superficial suppurating cavity is found between the muscles and the skin, from which an opening leads to the abscess in the kidney. The wound, whether or not a stone be found, should be kept open with wads of lint attached to a thread, as long as stones are formed in the kidney, or the diseased secre- tion exists in the urine (2). [ (1) “ If there be symptoms,” says Brodik, “ which lead you to suspect that a stone is lodged in the kidney, it is of course desirable that it should be made, if possible, to pass into the ureter, before it has attained such a size as to be incapable of being con- veyed along the canal into the bladder. Horse exercise, especially hard trotting, in such a case generally produces bloody urine. This shows that the calculus is made to un- dergo some change of position, and whatever produces this effect, is, of course, favour- able to its escape from the kidney.—[With due respect to this high authority, I should he- sitate in advising horse exercise, or any other violent effort to excite change of place in the stone, for fear of setting up active inflammation in the kidney, already irritated by the pressure of stone, and which might not be very easily or eertainly repressed, j. f. s.]—It is reasonable to suppose, that medicines which occasion a more abun- dant flow of urine, combined with diluting drinks, may also be useful under these circumstances. Where a calculus retained in the kidney produces considerable pam in the loins and neighbouring parts, the patient will sometimes derive benefit from local blood-letting, by cupping, or by leeches. At other times the application of the beUa- donna plaster. You may also employ setons and issues in the loins, as recommended by Earle (d). According to my experience, however, the last-mentioned remedies are seldom very useful, except in those cases in which disease of the kidneys, and especial abscess of the kidney, has taken place as a consequence of the lodgment of the calculus- M That they are sometimes eminently useful, under these last-named circumstances, 1 cannot doubt.” (p. 241.) , . “ When the inflammation of the kidneys is supposed to be connected witn toe - sence of renal calculi," which is by far the most frequent occurrence, Proi t recom- mends, “ in connexion with general blood-letting or cupping (if necessary) and the warm (n) Mem. de 1’Acad. de Cliirurgle, vol. iii. (ft) lectures, yot. ii. p. 222. p. 266. (c) Above cited, p. 6‘J. (rf) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 211.