[ 188 ] c.—OF HORSE-FOOT. (.Pes equinus, Lat.; Pferdefuss, Spitzfuss, Germ.; Pied dquin, Fr.) Joro, Ueber die Verkrummungen, p. 77. Zimmerman, Der Klumpfuss und Pferdefuss. Leipzig, 1830. Dieffenbach, Bonnet, and Phillips, above cited. 1386. Horse-foot is that malformation in which the whole splay-foot hass- one and the same direction with the leg; the heel is considerably drawn up, so that in walking the patient only treads with his toes, and especially with the ball of the great toe. The Achilles’ tendon is very tense,?, the foot at the same time so arched that the convexity of the back • and the concavity of the sole are increased. In the greatest degree so complete a turning about of the foot may be produced, that the tip of the foot is turned backwards, and the patient walks entirely on the instep (a). 11 1387. The cause of this ailment lies in an unnatural contraction of the muscles of the calf; subsequently also the m. plantar is and plantar fascia,i the m. tibialis posticus and peroneus longus shorten, and the curvature is; increased. In a very high degree of this ailment the joint surfaces of the astragalus are so far pushed forward, that they are nearly out of contact with the shin-bone, which rests almost entirely upon the back part of the lieel-bone; however, it is frequently observed that in long continued and severe horse-foot, the tarsal joints are not particularly changed, but that i there is a considerable removal of the front ends of the metatarsal bones from their connexion with the toes, inasmuch as they bear the chief weight in walking, in consequence of the toes being so much turned upwards. Horse-foot is congenital or acquired ; the latter is most common, because, - if at the time when the Achilles’ tendon is shortened the ankle-joint have not yet attained sufficient firmness, partly from the deficient development of the ligaments, partly from that of the ankles, and especially of the inner, club-foot is quickly produced by the simultaneous shortening of the m. tibialis anticus and posticus. Some inclination of the foot inwards is, - however, frequently observed in horse-foot. Diseased change in the tarsal i bones may also give rise to similar displacement. _ _ JH 1388. In reference to the causes, all that has been said in general, and* on club-foot, applies here (1). The treatment consists in the employment of baths, relaxing rubbings of the contracted muscles of the calf and their tendons, in manipulations, » for the purpose of bringing down the heel and raising the front of the foot, * which position must be maintained by the apparatus of Jorg (&), Stbo-> MEYER, Stoess, and others. In a great degree and long continuance ot horse-foot, no perfect cure is effected by this treatment, even though i • be long persisted in ; and the only division of the Achilles’ tendon an the subsequent application of proper apparatus, as in club-foot, in a shor time can restore the straight position of the foot. If the back of the> f instep j be very much arched and the plantar fascia stretched like a co > its division is mostly necessary. Stromeyer also cut through, in sow cases, the tendons of the m. flexor longus and extensor polhcis, on acco of a permanent improper position of the gieat toe (a) ST)I.Z. Memoiro but une varietc particulars cnees de Bisklim. Strasbourg, ISA vol. »'• 4 du l’ied-bot; in the Journal de la Boefeti ^