215 BY LIGATURE. iberty to pass on towards the extremity ; that the sac, being once empty, would not fill [(rain; that the layers of membrane that formed it would not fail to collapse ; and that ihus the tumour would disappear, all which happened as I thought. In this way the iperation was less tedious, and much less painful; besides, my incision was not half the ual length, hence there was a smaller cicatrix.” (p. 223.) The tumour collapsed in such way that it would have been impossible to have ascertained the spot where the aneu- rism existed.” (p. 222.) Desault’s operation, as stated by Sabatier (a), was performed in June, 1785, upon popliteal aneurysm which “ had acquired the size of a turkey-hen’s egg; the patient vas thirty years of age. * * * Desault made an incision about two inches in length ,t the upper part of the tumour, laid the artery bare, separated it from the nerve and tie! t * * * On the sixth day he tied a ligature of reserve, that he had placed under the rtery above the first one. The state of the wound and of the patient was such as to r romise a speedy cure.” The tumour diminished to half its size and the ligature came way on the eighteenth day. “ On the following day the wound discharged a tolerable lrge quantity of matter mixed with blood, and the tumour disappeared almost entirely; n evident sign of the rupture of the aneurismal sac. After this nothing was left but a stulous opening which healed in a few days.” (p. 403.) Erichsen (6) observes:—“ From the following remark by Maunoir it would appear bat little importance was attached to the operation at the time'even by Desault himself. |l lived,’ says Maunoir, ‘ two years with Desault, and I do not remember to have ■er heard him speak of this operation. It had not been considered of consequence; and general, it seemed to me, that it was quoted without being understood and after very ague reports.’ ” (p. 403.) Desault’s operation was also performed by Pott after Hunter had performed his jw operation, in a case of femoral aneurysm of which E. Home gives a brief and not try clear account in the paper presently to be cited from ; it did not, however, succeed, id amputation became necessary, at what period, however. Home does not state. I have heard it mentioned that John Hunter was indebted to Ford, for the sug- ?stion at least, it no more, of his mode of operating in cases of aneurysm. It is not . all improbable that Hunter’s mind may have been led to the operation he afterwards ractised, from his reflection on the two cases of Ford’s, presently to be mentioned : it this appears to be all Ford had to do with the matter, as it is very unlikely he undd not have taken notice of the subject, had he any claim to it, in the paper (c) 1 published between two and three years after Hunter's first operation: and, in fact, ; utterly discourages any kind of operation. He says:—“ An aneurysm of the larger issels, when it occurs m the trunk of the body, is a disease that is usually fatal, and is not uncommonly so when it happens in the extremities; the mode of cure in the ter case, whether by amputation of the limb or by tying the artery, being universally lowed to be hazardous. * * * The cases I now communicate to you serve to establish , e tact, that in cases of aneurysm the efforts of nature alone, unassisted by art, have oduced m the coats of the vessel a coalescence of its sides, firm enough to render the ILimperV,10US the, !,mpetuS of the blood’ whilst the circulation in the extremity ' mour”7nn yi!oP5°i\te obiy 7° C°llateral brauches gohig off above the aneurysmal hirin' L’ PP 2'430 Th.e hist case he met with, several years previous to pub- SlanllTti ^ f p°p'lteal aneurysm in a chairman. “ He was admitted into an Kd thl l T6 m?,nth,S.’ When he called np°n me,” (again,) says Ford, tie weaker th™ 7°^ had total y disappeared, and that the limb was wasted, and a uirv l ^. l ! h,6 T’ bu‘ that he was caPable of doing his business. Upon could be ascribed to any other means than to i»ht rTk f 7 ’ th Whl?h an horizontal position of the body, and a regular diet •*» of » fe«r, and afthe £8 I not, the circumstances nf°th ^ a d°Ubt at'°Sj whether tbe tumour was aneurysmal ferekce te l c °f.the case were not deemed strong enough to iustifV any es.^^ The ease was fhat of TZtei rt of the rinht thikt, i ‘ ^ 10 ba^; a tumour situated on the anterior and upper ;e of a turkSs t7f’mT7th,r7 ,nches below Podpart's ligament. It was of the ^elling ablim thfkize oft nniw/ Pulsati°n'” He had also, “at the same time, ;lt a tremulous pulsation ” fn 141 ^ C®r m the .,am the other leg’ ln which was i'gh had considerably incre^ed1-4^.! al0ntlls. after, the swelling in the right y cieased, and fiom the irritation, probably dependent on a P,ted at liea<1 of article. I ' e,aaes of the Spontaneoi (a) Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 179fi. 'pontaneous Cure of Aneurism, with Remarks; in London Medical Journal, vol. ix. l/oo.