743 IN THE MAXILLAKY SINUS. . ment, as the cure is only effected when secretion ceases, and the whole / cavity filled with granulations. For this purpose Weinhoed recom- s i mends as especially advantageous, diluted tincture of capsicum, and solution i of nitrate of silver. [The restoration of the original aperture between the maxillary cavity and the nostril, J is not of the slightest consequence; at least, so far as the cases I have seen, prove. .. iTnTimATn'n T J „ 1, . iL! J.1. a 1*1 1 . , . */» v jo uv» v* , uu u-uon, oo cio me Lflscs jl iia,ve aetru, pi uve. >> Weinhold’s notion, I do not think, is any thing worth, or at all likely to be correct, for as | soon as the pus has escaped by the hole in the tooth-socket, the inflammation subsides, and jif the lining of the maxillary cavity resumes its natural function. But if the pus have been veryjong pent up, and the mucous membrane destroyed, it is more probable there will I- be exfoliation of the bony walls, than that the whole cavity will be filled with granu- lation. I have not, however, seen any case where either one or other such result has occurred. Weinhold’s recommendation of injecting stimulating solutions cannot be too strongly deprecated, as being fraught with mischief, and should never be followed. It is not, however, objectionable to inject warm water for two or three days after the tooth has been drawn, and the cavity tapped, as thereby it is more quickly cleansed, m and the healthy processes are encouraged.—J. F. S.] * 2358. Boring into the maxillary cavity in the fossa canina is indicated *' when teeth and alveolar process are healthy, in collections of fluid, and q polypous and other degenerations. The patient sitting on a stool, his head ». is fixed by an assistant against his breast, and the corner of the mouth on r the affected side drawn down with a blunt hook. The cheek is to be ipeparated at the front edge of the base of the zygomatic process, in the direction of the second or third molar tooth, by a cut through the o-ura • I the periosteum is to be cut through cross-wise, and the flaps cut offVith -scissors. Upon the bared bone a perforating trephine is then apnlied and $> made to penetrate rather obliquely from below upwards through" the wall ■not the maxillary cavity. An examination is made with a probe to ascertain ! whether there be any after-production, and if there be, to what extent this hole should be enlarged. If necessary, it must be widened first with the " P°lnted a,ld afterwards with the blunt perforator; and if the wall be soft this may be done with a strong curved knife; and the opening should - always be made sufficiently large to introduce the finger. A small-crowned | trt-e also be useful ^ perforating the cavity at this part (a). I he further treatment is guided bv the state ofdisea.se. Tn 2359. The further treatment is guided by the state of disease. In blen- I. ulceratl°n the same proceeding is adopted, as after perforat- T t00th-s°cket. Any after-products existing in the maxillary sinus ; must be removed according to their nature, by cutting away, tearing off ||tying, or by destroying them with caustic. & ’ 2360. Cutting away cannot be employed if the polyp have a broad base ti • x t i 11 n 1 c^uiieiice oi tae dis- Mor withpJyP.13 be draT 'r;11 forvvard> and cut off with the bistoury, gf J with Cooper s scissors : the bleeding must be stanched with wadding KtS°LuSrd With StyPtiCS and°PreSSUre’ °r ** the appliSion’S ??. Uarinl * *•. HIP. straight or I iurvofl fi.rr.rr, u ■ rr ""v "U poiyp witn straight or ,» he prSS. 8 8r“P “ “ ”ear “ possil,le •» its root, is always « h aSt,w CT% -9 "nly T Wl,en the <•>«» cannot bo got )r best of all I,1 p“rpol®’ b“‘yr of antimony, caustic potash, » a solution of the'latte.-; 3t‘i'nt’ being introduced into the cavity. he actual cautery is only to be employed when the other remedies a (a) Desavi.t, above cited, vol. ii. p. 166. pi. i. nga. 1, 2, 3. are