173 CURVATURE OF THE KNEE. One knee may curve or bend inwards, producing’ the deformity called In -knee ( Genu valgum, Lat.; Ziegcnbein, Schemmelbein, Germ.; Genou “en dedans, Fr.) or Knock-knees, when both knees are in like manner affected. It is characterized by a projection inwards of the inner condyle of the thigh-bone, with a less or great divergence of the leg and foot outwards, so that in standing the feet are far apart from each other, and the thigh- bones, overhanging the inside of the heads of the shin-bones, are, together with the weight of the body, supported mainly by the internal lateral ligaments of the knee-joints. The knees also, instead of being against ihe same imaginary plane, are placed one behind the other. When this deformity is great, walking is very awkwardly performed, as it is neces- sary, in bringing the leg forwards, to abduct it considerably, to avoid striking the knees together; and in consequence of the oblique direction if the leg, the inner ankle also bends inwards and the person treads upon :he inside of the foot. This is a very common ailment in labouring persons who carry very leavy weights, but is generally worst in those accustomed to wheel heavy oarrows. It, however, is by no means unfrequent in young people who Egow quickly, but is often recovered from, as their bodily strength im- proves, unless occupied with hard labour. Little can be done for this distortion, which I have in one or two persons mown to incapacitate from following any laborious employment, besides supporting bandages and cold douche baths. Although irons are recom- nended, I have not seen much benefit from them. The knee may also be curved outwards (Genu varum, Lat.; Sdbelbein, 3erm ;) this is, however, rare, and must not be confused with the so- sailed bow leg, which depends principally on outward curving of the hin-bone, and to which the slight outward bend of the knee is only onsequent. J The knee is, however, most commonly bent forwards, ( Contractura Genu Lat.; Vorwdrtsbeugung des Kniees, Germ.,) and this may occur from ..original shortening of the bending muscles of the leg, or of the fascia ' covering the thigh, an account of which last was first published by Fro- • uep (a), who found, in a corpse, that although the flexing muscles were Jut through yet the knee could not be straightened. Very frequently the r -cnee is bent at a later period of life, and the most common causes are rheu- • natic inflammation of the tendinous structures about the joint independent Jt disease of its interior, or scrofulous inflammation running on to suppu- " around °r e™ J" ^ joint itself. Palsy of the extending muscles i. nay also give rise to this kind of bending of the knee The treatment of these cases consists in rubbing and in the application if extending apparatus and the use of passive motion, from patiently per- I ”5^ wlJb wblch for » long period, considerable benefit and occasional ure results ; but in those cases which cannot be managed it has been nf ecommended to divide the hamstrings, an operation, I believe first prac- Jctober lsTo ^nd^it ^h’ ^ Performed il three times previous to ’ 'ri °’ d * has since been occasionally performed with varied ' ZZ at^To^^T"1’ eit],er b* d-sion the^iams^r/ng lividerl ?nce> 01\by partial and repeated cuts till they are completely Imded, nsn.g at the same „me an extending appara J as theT* ent I Irtl Filin..,. V e a A (n) Chirurg. Kupfert, No.E w Oeb«r die Schwtichung 346. der Lehnen durch Einschneidung; in IIufeland and Humby's Journ. der prak. Heilk., vol. vi. p. 1.