872 OF THE APPLICATION OF MEZEREON BARK. soon as it has caused bright redness of the skin, -which generally happens in tw or three hours; it should then be removed and left alone for a little while, as the blisterj id - very soon after rises, if it have not already. The younger the child is, the more necee | gn sary it is to attend to this point, or sloughing will ensue, and death has been known t follow in consequence. . i Indeed with children, I am by no means sure that, in most cases, a mustard poultic ' is not preferable to the application of a blister. It should be made with mustard am : warm water, (some recommend vinegar,) rather thinner than if for the table, as if mad Id stiff it is much less active. It should then be spread about a quarter of an inch thicl j I on fine muslin, and another layer of muslin being put upon it, applied to the part, am kept on ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes, according to the redness and pain. In som q<j| persons it will even blister. When removed, the skin should be carefully sporigei («v clean with warm water, otherwise the irritation, which is very great, will continue. H In the few persons whose skin is blistered with difficulty, it is best to apply previously tlj a mustard poultice till the skin becomes reddened and painful.—J. F. S.] 2644. When the blister has risen, the plaster must be carefully removed :-|i the blister opened with scissors, the water emptied, and the part dresseoW with simple cerate, fresh butter, or any other mild ointment. If requisite,*/ to keep up the suppuration for a time, it must be dressed with wig. resvru&^k or some digestive ointment to which cantharides has been added, or wit! !■ ung. scibincB, which is best of all. [I must confess I am no advocate for open blisters, the only special result of whicl tar appears to me that of putting the patient to unnecessary pain. All that is desirable, t< w wit, derivation, is much more effectually done by a succession of small blisters, abou ifl the size of a half-crown piece, around the part affected, which may be repeated ad infill' ■ turn, with scarcely any inconvenience to the patient. They are called flying blisters.— 4 J. F. S.] 2645. When a blister is applied to a part not very sensitive, its opera-® tion may be promoted by rubbing it with a hot flannel or with vinegar. If the inflammation be very violent, it must be soothed with somt| softening and cooling remedy. If the cantharides be absorbed, it will i produce strangury, for the relief of which, mucilaginous drinks and emul- : sions with camphor, may be given. Swellings of the neighbouring glandSjj which sometimes arise, may be relieved by the application of sootlungi ointments and poultices, and by the removal of all irritation. y 2646. For the employment of Mezereon bark (Seidclbast, Germ.) «l piece of the bark an inch and a half long, and the same wide, should Del soaked eight or ten hours in vinegar or water, after which, it is to Dei applied with its smooth surface next to the skin, generally upon the arm* at the insertion of the m. deltoides, and covered with a piece of oiled si compress, and roller, to keep it close. After ten or twelve hours, w^ena the bandage is removed, if the skin be sufficiently inflamed, a piece o oi j silk is to be applied on the inflamed part and fastened with ccmipre^® ^ bandage; but if the first application have not been effective, a >eC° piece of the bark must be applied. About the second or third day a 1 piece of bark is put on, the skin rises, and a serous fluid exudes. part must be cleansed daily with warm water or milk ; and if the 1,1 mation be very great, it must be rubbed with warm milk and bouii ^ with some mild ointment. The pustules around the irritated pa general yield to cleanliness and repeated washing with warm water. jg ( [2646.* Another very excellent and very gentle mode ol nns nlbbed $ with croton oil, ten or a dozen drops of which should be gent} tw0 - over the surface with the finger, protected in a piece of oiled si ’nied or three following nights. Usually a slight stinging is felt, acc j with puffiness of the part on the second or third day, and tins i.