185 SPLAY-FOOT. ibly curved club-foot the result of this operation be not perfect, or even iot considerable, and which indeed cannot be previously ensured, yet they lo not damage the value of this operation. Even in the earliest child- lood it may be employed. Blasius supposes that the operation, when applied to true club-foot, that is, to severe ■ases, where it alone can be preferred, effects little or nothing; that it rather only ipplies to spurious club-foot, and especially to slight cases. Club-foot is a complication if anomalies : and that the inversion is the most important point; but the operation is iirected against only one anomaly, and not at once against the most important. Many ;roups of muscles participate in the vicious position; the operation is only directed riinst the muscles of the calf,—at most against the m. tibialis anticus or some one the others. Atrophy of the leg is always present, and against it can the operation e of no use. This opinion is contradicted by what has been already said, and by the sperience both of others and myself. Against Blasids’s opinion of the propriety of mputation in such states of club-foot, compare Stroheyer (a). b.—OF SPLAY-FOOT. ( Valgus, Lat.; Plattfuss, Germ.; Pied-plat, Fr.) Bochetmann, Inaug. Abh. iiber die Plattfuss. Erlangen, 1830; with plates. Nevermann, Ueber den Plattfuss und seine Heilung; with a plate; in Hamburger eitschnft, vol. iv. part 11. 1837. . 6 Stromeyeb, above cited, p. 99. Dieffenbach, above cited, p. 127. 1382. Splay-foot, the reverse of club-foot, is a frequently occurring iformity, in which there is not any actual twisting, but rather only such iclination of the toot outwards that the inner ankle projects very much id descends lower than natural, that beneath the outer ankle is a more less deep depression, the natural arching of the back of the foot and lie cavity of the sole and of the inner edge of the sole are lost, and the rot touches the ground at once with the whole sole, and is widest at the nGerfythe foot is unusuaiiyco]d’dusk? ^ - wSv*1* >st-bitten, but, however, much disposed to sweat, so that it is always STm °Uthe SOl1 IS /°ft’ and without the usual hardness and I t f In ,Walklrf ’ spjay-footed persons direct the knee inwards and " rrrds’so hat they mostiy tread °n the inside of the foot llint of thTfZVemenCf X Spla,y;f00t are’ SPeedy fati^ue in walking, ellmg of the foot around the ankles, and soreness of the soles of the t 'tL • fhiah acc°unt Persons so affected are not fit for military service ie infantry From the continual straining of the feet even ohronip |.tarx°"f„‘te,lifme,llS a"d s;,|;oviaI membranes arises, by which merely pan, bn, also serous exudation among the tarsal bones takes « thomI “r,eqT,reS rest’ Vy Wl,ich the transilien to caries is prevents ‘ Tor WrofiwLr,TrkaMe *hat a<M»"s °f “» «■>*> arising : -rays remarkab]y stubbornerS(HIS’ especially Inflammatl°ns and ulcers, are I lartunnenf of"th be f *i,n«"ished from Broad-foot, which is simply an thSSil “*1 *br"i f ,‘,he f00t on the extension f iquent use (£)? ’ 16 to t le raetatarsal bones, caused by their *0 The Circular to tl,e‘p CA?PEn’8 Wochenscbrift, 1836. Nos. 34,35 •bowing the difference of'Bro”d and^X examination of recruits ; in