367 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. («) Ab°ve cited, p. 137. id vantages by cauterizing the ivalls of the stricture. According to lRNOTT («), after the seat and condition of the stricture have been ascer- lined by careful examination, and with a very soft bougie, which should • te introduced through a canula, and take every impresion of the stricture, pretty large canula should be carried down to the stricture. A piece of io mar caustic, somewhat smaller than the stricture, should then be pierced irough its middle with a metal stilette, and upon which it must be re- ined, half an inch from the tip, so that the stilette may be surrounded sith a piece of common bougie, both in front and behind the caustic. The • ilette is then passed through the canula down to the stricture, and : irough it, so that the caustic can be applied to any part of the stricture, s i/hen the caustic has been properly used, a small wad of linen is to be in- > oduced by means of the same stilette and canula, to sop up all the caustic 1$ thich has become fluid. I[lt must not be supposed, as Chelius would seem to infer, that Dr. Arnott is the iginal proposer of the treatment of cauterizing the walls of the stricture with lunar ustic; for Whately, in his Observations on Mr. Home’s Treatment of Strictures A c Wished in 1801, eighteen years before the first edition of Arnott’s book on Stricture d mentioned among the advantages of his construction of caustic bougies, by gluing i end of the instrument, and applying it to a given quantity of powdered lunar nstie, that “ in the first place, the bougie may be of any size, even the smallest size a by this method become the vehicle of this powerful remedy; and maybe readily sse(j \nto: _or a . beyond, such strictures as are extremely narrow : or such as are ended with considerable contraction of the orifice of the urethra.” (p. 68 ) Anda°-ain-— f the stricture be open enough to admit a bougie of moderate size, such a bouqie armed •th caustic may very readily be passed into or beyond it." (p. 72.) Perhaps Dr. Arnott s unaware of Whately’s observations, for it is rather curious, that although Hunter tn^hASR-LEYtP00PiER’ LfLLE»IAND' Ducamp, and other writers on stricture are men- ?lef°nl[ u<?t.lce taken °* Whately is, that a naval captain had obtained in le rdief under his care ; and that after his death the captain’s stricture having he P^ed himself under the care of other Surgeons, but without receiving much their treatment He at length, in 1824, consulted Dr. James Arnott, who ployed the dilator invented by him, from which he obtained considerable relief (p 111 'l »T: Aknott s new method is precisely the same as John Hunter’s mode of ■sfic U hddonTnv/11^ WhlChihe gKVt: UP aS “efficient, with the exception that thf Stic is held on a piece of wire, by which it is pierced, instead of a portcravon ns in E7b e; ;Td 7 rP°rt7 addition’ that the stilette of the plug, instead gnJS? Pr07crayonattachedt0 the other end, as recommended by Hunter has erflnnfc -°f hn fixued 0n. whlch 18 iatroduced before the caustic, to absorb’anv 3 s .v'SlwnTi”8 ‘he h“"'i0r fthe • 691 Ifcjujstiepotj^h be used for cauterizing the walls of the strip i tochS6 °f ™ffldenVhjckness *° “ter stricture with difficulty ^gietrith the nail K *? ,A "'“k is ‘hen made on the enit l l half an inch from the orifice of the urethra and P musHhbeen ,W1.thdrawn> a little cavi|y about the twelfth of an’ inch *Pthan hbeG man6 rounded end> int(> which a small piece of caustic e of thPLSmf1IeSt -Pin’s b?ad’ must be P»t, and so pressed in that m ft be mt]SibTnd * T° fix the caustic, the bougie h lard. Thus armfifTnifaft 7 fi?ger?’ and the interspace filled arried down tho T ’ ? haVlnS been vveI1 oiled, tl.e bougie stic begin to bLoml T' 1° 'i ®tnctur.e’ where it is to be held till the egin to become fluid, and the patient feels a burning pain. It is