255 AND COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. effected partly with his nail, and partly with an elevator. Passing the aneurysmal needle was also very difficult. Drawing the ligature together id not excite any pain. The patient lived twenty-three hours after the peration. It may be more convenient, as recommended by Asti.ey Cooper, in tying the abdo- jminal aorta, to make the cut about an inch distant from the epigastric artery, outwards, ind running parallel to it, and to proceed as in tying the internal iliac artery. According to Guthrie’s recent views, it is in no case necessary to tie the aorta, cause in an aneurysm of the external or internal iliac, the common iliac on the diseased ide can always be got at, and if not there, yet on the healthy side, for the purpose of :arrying a ligature around it. [The aorta was also tied by C. D. Monteero (a) ’at Rio Janeiro, Aug. 5, 1842, for ;in aneurysm of the femoral artery, close to the groin, which on examination turned out :o be spurious, by the vessel having burst and formed a large swelling, occupying a jrreat portion of the right under part of the belly. The incision was made on the left ide, from the tip of the last false rib to the upper front iliac spine, through the abdominal vails, avoiding the peritonaeum. The fingers were then carried down to the aorta, and li ligature with great difficulty passed around it by means of a ligature-needle. But ittle blood was lost. As soon as the ligature was tied, the aneurysm sunk down, but e artery swelled up (?), and for some time remained as a thick large knot. The case ent on well till the eighth day; at three, p.m., arterial blood escaped through the ressings; it did not, however, affect the pulse, but patient's countenance was sunken ,nd hollow. The bleeding continued, and on the tenth day, at 10 a.m., he died. The igature had been placed two lines above the bifurcation of the aorta ; a small opening ”as found on the left side of the vessel, immediately above the ligature.] 1471. If an aneurysm be situated on the external or internal iliac artery, r if it have extended so far upwards that there is not sufficient space etween the aneurysm and the origin of these arteries to apply a ligature, lying the common iliac artery is indicated. Gibson (b) tied this artery [or a wound ; Mott (c) on account of an aneurysm of the internal iliac rtery, Crampton (rf) and Salamon (e) on account of a large external iac aneurysm; Liston for secondary haemorrhage; Guthrie for a resumed aneurysm of the gluteal artery; also Same, Deguise, and .^eace (/); but Mott’s, Salamon’s, Deguise’s, and Peace’s opera- ions alone were successful. 1472. In order to tie the common iliac artery, an imaginary line ust be drawn from the upper front spine of the hip-bone directly towards ie white line : two and a half inches above this line, and two lines from * he outer edge of the m. rectus abdominis, a cut should be be<mn I a™ed obliquely downwards and outwards, and terminated an inch and a ?!,. below the line, so that it has a length of from four to five inches. In 9 his direction, the skin, the fascia of the external oblique muscle the 9 nuscle itself, and then the fascia of the internal oblique muscle, are cut -I rough ; the transverse muscle with its aponeurosis is then divided with ivil?1 st.I'okesA of the knife, or a director is introduced, and they are JVKed upon it. Any spouting vessel must be tied; the edges of the Inrn ra7-under W,ith blunt hooks by an assistant, and with the (-n.,lnP Sed d°wn 1"to the wounc,> or with the handle of the knife, the ml i T.T!011 „of the peritoneum with the surrounding external parts fc.h7,ae‘d^,,?^irl’S ,J"nk " the" *“ be i"cli“d ‘owidsfte fj y .side, so that the intestines may drop away from the wound, and S"* ?«5“*oas"^“'*>■ •• te,ir&r =i"i Sr-—. I®., asris-irisKs J0Urnal of Medical Sciences, vol. i. Medici Ixamin^.6^611 fr°m the PhiladelP1'ia