61 AND ACCOMPANIED WITH HYDROCELE. Sometimes a rupture is accompanied with a common hydrocele below it; but in more rare cases the hydrocele is in front of the rupture, and generally is not discovered till the operation is performed, when it is liable to produce confusion, and make the operator suppose he has mistaken the case. Thomas Blizard appears to have been the first person who observed hydrocele in front of an inguinal rupture. His patient had been subject to bubonocele on the right side upwards of six years, and he had almost constantly worn a truss. During the last two years of this period, a swelling of the testicle on the same side, which seems to have been hydrocele, occurred, but after a few months disappeared, and left the testicle wasted and drawn up to the groin. “ When first called to him,” says Blizard (a), “ I found a small bubonocele on the right side, and could distinctly feel the testis of the same side, but very small, lying at the bottom of the hernia, having an inclination forwards. * * * Twenty hours after the descent I performed the operation. Having dissected down to a membrane, which I considered to be the hernial sac, I punctured it at the upper part, and then laid it open its whole length. It extended within the ring, which to obtain room for examination, I dilated. Upon further inquiry, I found the hernia was situated more deeply, and that the membrane which I had laid open was the tunica vaginalis testis, extended by the hydrocele, which had entirely disappeared. I then of course dissected through this tunica vaginalis at the posterior part, and laid open the hernial sac, which contained a portion of intestine nearly black from strangulation.” The stricture was at the mouth of the sac. “ In this case the hernia must have been behind the cord.” (p. 66.) Another example of this kind occurred to the younger Cline shortly after, and is men- tioned by Astley Cooper (b). I witnessed this operation. “ On making an incision, into that which was supposed to be the hernial sac, a fluid similar to that of hydrocele escaped, which it afterwards proved to be, for it was the tunica vaginalis which had been opened ; on dilating this opening a little, a tumour presented itself, which was afterwards tound to befromjtli to Jthof an inch thick, which, being dissected through, a fluid resem- bling the first m colour, but of a fetid smell, came out. This tumour was found to be the tunica vaginalis of the cord, but much altered from the natural appearance by a quan- to*1 bad been effused, which gave it the appearance of India rubber; the rnlwR6 «ad adheFid firmly to the adjacent parts, and the stricture was divided with ^on) the finger. Mr. Cline thought it not advisable to attempt to break through the adhesions, so as to return the intestine, lest it might bring on a dangerous degree of ^nn^011,’ Cp-V-> He did well. These caJs are not so uncommon as formerly pp ed, and many o- oui Museums in London possess two or more examples.—J. F. S. J 1200. Varicocele, when it has attained considerable size, has indeed some resemblance to omental rupture, the abdominal ring is not, however stretched; the several strings of the swollen vessels are felt; if the swell- ing be compressed for a few moments between the fingers, without thrusting it back towards the belly, it almost entirely disappears; the whole mass of fh! S'01? see™s expanded into varicose vessels. In doubtful cases, let finJr rMbe k? °n Vs back’ return the swelling, and press with the 2 \ he abdominal nnff 5 this pressure will, when he rises, be thfflow off 1pre,Vent tJe Protrusion of the intestine, but not to suppress the How of blood into the spermatic vessels. 11 sDonmnpn!|flarat0ry swellin£ of the spermatic cord be developed spontaneously, the diagnosis is doubtful, so much the more, if injuries Sce° hil ■ °"'S’ a2d ‘he like’ which e<>ually ruptures, pro- aMontel rinamT'°”-, ISuC!' inflammatory swelling passes through the witli tin. • *?r’ < eS<??nf S t(? the testicle, which seems as it were confused inoni'noi „S»We i ln°’ ^ 19 Mastic, painful, and manifestly inclosed by the nguinal cana . fever comes on, the bowels may be drawn in to partici- »r°Yf theiVeh;ef’ disp0siti0n t0 vesting and "he iSfare were a rnnt SUC i th? dta9nosis is more difficult, if previously tliere exjjted the*inflammtionaof^tlw1cord!ran^,1^ate^ by ““ injury ',llicl' l,as (a) Asti.ey Cooper, above cited. (6) Above cited.