799 AFTER-TREATMENT. Galenzovsky, of drawing the knife upwards (a). When the vessels have been tied, the wound must be filled with lint, and this fastened with sticking plaster and a bandage. When the granulations have risen ecmallv over the wound, its edges must be attempted to be drawn together with sticking- plaster, to favour their scarring. The wound should be dressed only with lint, without digestive or other applications, and onlv towards the end of the treatment, with narcotico-balsamic ointment. 7 Benedict (b) considers moistening the wound with tincture of opium, and a dressing of opium ointment, as the best means to prevent return of the disease Fvnl‘ g °f ,L of such cases has been I do not know.—J. F. S-] ° ^ ’ Ut Wh t tae issue ao24n8' Ppinions vaiT as to the preference of extirpation or amputation as well, also, as to healing the wound by quick union, or by suppuration granulation. Extirpation and quick union are generally held to lie the most preferable mode of treatment, because the cure is thereby effected most qmckly, a regular scar is formed, and the wound is not so L,! sub ject to irritation as in suppuration, which, under existing d;«r,r>c.-+- 13 b~ readily leads to scirrhous degeneration. Bui itt ligamentous white strings so commonly extend in the^li i * ’ the neath the skin, beyond the bounds of tL turaonr 7d efen'Se ZueR aulVT T'T extirPali0“. amputation must have the preference at least when the skin, though only at some spots is not ’ or even degenerated, and the nipple much drawn in. Thalia™^ of •oundT/ suppurating I mTt fro “fperien^TSy “iTb aveT f •T S of y cellular tissue, or whether there be any trace of tbf> w; • i V r P “T some- “i - * removed. The veils ara to be tiK fT , whil* ie of the gland be so deeo t tT glandls shelled out. Jf ’Ut danSer of wounding the vessels die oTT* ?XtirPated with- t0 itS base> pulled forcibly0 downrUab„db: ^rredp,n ‘S'to Se4”Ty ^rpXfic’cShousl1 in many cases ,)^;:rte and m0Vable lumps in th« breast may he managed with J‘- xii- P- Cot;"' 8 “nd V0N WALr»ER'» Journal, (/,) Above cited. (c) Klein, Chirurgigcho Boobaclitungen, p. 26J.