REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE UPPER-ARM. 925 [In amputating through the upper arm it is always advisable to make the stump as long as possible; as thereby an artificial arm is better fixed, and is rendered more useful. In the accompanjing report five of the amputations through the upper arm were primary, and one secondary for accidents; all recovered, but in two of them a narrow nng of bone exfoliated. Liston’s amputations through this limb are seven, of which one was primary for accident and lived; four for scrofulous disease of elbow, of whom two died; one for disease of elbow consequent on burn, and one for senile gangrene, both of whom re- covered. Thus, the deaths on the whole number were 28 • 5 per cent.] Report of Six Amputations through the Upper Arm, from the Year 1835 to 1840, inclusive. 1835 Edward Walpole, aged 31 (wag- foner), admitted eb. 9. Accident or Disease. 1836 ifeJames Cook, aged .- 8$, admitted July .25. Gangrene of fore- and tipper- arm, consequent on a blow from a box ten days since on the former. Was fast sink- ing at the time of opera- tion, in consequence of irritative fever and diar- rhoea. lurtagh Downing, aged 20 (machine ’.'boy), admitted -Wf Sept. 8. 1838 Daniel Edwards, ged 50 (excavu- Uor), admitted Feb. 22. illiam Beevcrs, Jged27 (stoker), dmitted Feb. 23. 1810 § »hn Hall, aged 4. admitted Feb. Severe lnceration of skin and muscles around the elbow, consequent on re- ceiving the discharge of a carronade close by him. Said not to have lost much blood. The radius was fractured, but the brachial artery and el- bow-ioint were unin- jured. Compound fracture of the left olechranon, with wound into joint, and extensive laceration of the skin and muscles; consequent on having been caught by the drum-strap of a print- ing-machine. Severe laceration of skin of the back of the hand, and of adducting mus- cle* of the thumb, con- sequent on earth-slip falling on him. A fort- night after, great suppu- ration, irritative fever, and erysipelas came on, which extended above the elbow ; sloughing of cellular tissue of fore- arm. Troubled much with cough, and bowels very lax ; and he became much exhausted. Bleed- ing to the amount of two ounces from nn artery near the wrist. Extensive laceration of the ■ kin of the right fore- arm, with some lacera- tion of muscles, nnd the skin separated some dis- tance abovo the elbow, consequent on being jammed between steam- engine shaa and deck- timbers. Compound fracture of the right upper and fore- arm, with severe lacera- tion of soft parts, conse- quent on cnrt-whecl having pnssed over the arm whilst fallen on a rail-road. Operated Feb. 17. Eighteen days afte accident. July 25, Two hours after accident. Sept. 3. Two hours after accident. April 17. Filty-four days after accident. Feb. 23. Nine hours a fter accident. Feb. 17. Nino hours after accident. Remarks. With circular cut through insertion of m. coraco- brachialis; the parts all so glued together that the skin could not be retracted, but was dissected up. A portion of sloughy skin was included in the cut, which also divided a sinus close to the bone. Pour arteries were tied : wound brought together with straps of plaster. Felt better next day, but on third day had hic- cough, with cold sweats ; these, however, soon subsided. On fourth day the bone protruded ; on the following day was attacked with ery- sipelas of the ears and face ; on the eighth day was delirious, but better on the tenth, and then steadily improved. On the thirty-eighth day a ring of bone was easily removed, and soon after the bone was covered with granulations, which skinned slowly, and the wound had not healed when he left. With circular cut, just above insertion of m. del- toides; lour arteries tied ; the brachial exceed- ingly small; the wound was dressed with straps of plaster four hours after ; went on very well, and in a month the wound healed, except opposite an edge of bone which seemed likely to exfoliate, but it did not, and the bone was completely covered before he left. With circular cut through insertion ofm.del- toides, but some of tiie detached skin was used to coyer the stump, as there was not enough without. Three arteries were tied, and the wound brought together with three sutures and strups of plaster; sutures removed at seventy-two hours. About the tenth day there was a little sloughing at the edge of the de tached skin. With circular cut, and two side cuts; five arteries tied; very little blood lost ; three hours after the wound was brought together with straps ol plaster ; went on well lor a fortnight, then flagged, but soon rallied. Dis- charged. April 19. Sept. 17. B'nar“tcd .kin, and a circular cut through ihemu.clos, about middlo of arm • d rl r;;Tlct “> four arteries S bought together with two .utures, and »ix hours utter, dressing, com- at /bWu "1 P" °f i sutures Amoved ^-uST;yris,m,,om,ou8hcd' "nd ihe Wctei:^al CUl- in mi,Vin»? which, the mus. 5 d bcen ""Plated benenth from the ■Kin, burst out, and beenmo tightly girt bv it- w°rc tied ; u M,n8,c Put on, and the drensmg completed with straps or Hflcr.- 0n 'bo fourth day Kohl hVkrn C0T'nK U,e ,,umP "•»» sloughy, amt afterwards separated; the bone protruded, and nbout two months after the operation a narrow ring of bone was removed Nov. 1. June 5. April 10. April EB.