CONGENITAL RUPTURE IN THE FEMALE. 65 entirely with that of external or oblique rupture. The radical cure here takes place earlier, by the constant use of a truss, as the canal of the vaginal tunic has a natural disposition to close ; on which account strangu- lation mostly occurs from a stricture of this canal. The sac is often so contracted, even at its lower end, that the cavity of the vaginal tunic is entirely closed from the rest of the hernial sac. If a portion of intestine protrude with the testicle, it must be attempted carefully to draw down the testicle into the purse, and to keep up the rupture by the truss ; if the testicle remain at or in the external inguinal ring and will not descend, a truss, with a concave pad, must be carefully applied. Pressing back the testicle, recommended by many persons, is very painful and dangerous, as degene- ration of the testicle may be caused by the pressure of the truss. If the rupture adhere to the testicle, and keeping up the former be very painful, an operation and division of the adhesion is indicated. If strangulation be present and the operation necessary, (which even in the first days after birth may happen,) it must be performed with particular caution, that the testicle be taken care of. Any adhesion between the testicle and the pro- truded parts must be divided. If water as well as intestine be contained in the congenital rupture, it can be determined, after having returned it with the intestine, and putting the finger on the ring by raising the patient, when the wrater first, and then by coughing or the like, the intestine pro- trudes. If in these cases a truss be applied, in most, the water is gradually ibsorbed. 1-10. After completing the operation for inguinal rupture, and cleansing m.he wound, the edges of the skin should be brought together, with some nterrupted stitches, and between them strips of plaster applied, and covered with wadding; to the region of the inguinal canal a many-folded Tiangular compress is to be applied and kept in place with a T bandage. >e patient should lie in bed on his back, with his thighs drawn up towards ie belly, and supported by a bolster beneath the knees. The after- reatment is to be conducted by the rules already laid down. 1211. In the operation for inguinal rupture, without openinq the hernial after making the proper cut of the skin a small aperture is to be made ie tendon of the external oblique muscle, a little above the external ° ~inS\and a director introduced, with which it is sought to find ■ ° . s J1C. ure? and then it should be directed towards the outer or e rHrpSUinn/inf aiK t,he stricture divided with a knife introduced upon e mZL (KEY) ; ,T the hernial sac is t0 be drawn a little down, whilst sible in thprera‘S-ed hVl aSSXStant’and then the stricture being rendered 21V * PTng ° tfG tendon’ shou]d be divided (A. Cooper.) lino- of the S inguinal rupture may originate, in women, in the length- •thge word/ W " n sornetlmes accompanies the round ligament [Thi wheriothr,pare to €Tjeniiai the ^ sex. Uc«/,4and it cribed by Nuck (a) who called it a •aks of it by the name of 'a01 lo"gand not constant. Cloquet (&) in a rounded cul-de-sac of whieh^bp3*! avyhndrica1 tube terminating in a point I'trary, it is a little flask with a n tb Iea£th an(1 Slze varies; sometimes, on the I that he has “ found tli™! ,l i°WnefCk wblch communicates with the belly,” jmen of all ages.” (p. 41.) 1 0nIy ln female fatus> hut also in young girls and fctcn ’V'1' f“,ale’ A,-“» says (c) that . h' f0Und aide of tile ii^f jmculi,novis. ’ p- x- d<i rori‘on*l (O Monro, A., .Tlln., M.D., Morbid Anato,t,v of • tociiorch(>3 Anatomiqnea. ,B ,™“n, Gu,let>stomacli, and Intestines. Eclin- fOL. II "ur8bj loll. Svo.