CLUB-FOOT. 182 should be made with the thumb against the little wound, to squeeze out the * I blood and to prevent the entrance of air; the wound is to be covered with some strips of sticking plaster and wadding, which are fastened with some turns of a lightly-applied roller. The patient is then to be carried i to bed, and the foot plaeed in a suitable position. Thilenius (a), Michaelis (6), and Sartorius (c) cut through the tendon simul- taneously with the skin. Delpech thrust the blade of a bistoury behind the Achilleju tendon, so that on both sides a skin wound is produced about an inch long; a convex knife is then introduced, with the edge of which towards the tendon he divides i transversely, without wounding the skin above it. Stromeyer thrusts in a narrov curved fistula-knife about two inches above the heel, behind the Achilles’ tendon, am out at the other side, and cuts through it in withdrawing the knife. Stoess makes with a narrow double-edged bistoury, which he thrusts in flat behind the Achilles* tendon, a wound two and a half inches wide, without perforating the skin on the othe side, draws the bistoury back, and introducing a button-ended one, slightly curved, am cutting on to a slight extent, with which he divides the tendon. Bouvier (rf) makes :■ slight puncture in the skin with the point of a lancet a few lines before the tendon where it is thinnest and strongest, and introduces through this puncture a straigb. I narrow button-ended tenotome between the skin and tendon, and cuts through fron f before backwards. Guerin brings his narrow tenotome, slightly rounded in from L through a previously made small skin-wound beneath the tendon. Scoutette I stretches the skin with the fingers of the left hand, at the same time drawing it some I what inwards, and thrusts in the tenotome at the inner side of the tendon, canning i I from behind forwards and from within outwards, without penetrating the skin on tb j opposite side; he now depresses the handle, draws the knife backwards and forward** j and the tendon is divided. Dieffenbach and others practise in the above-mentioni- j wiiy. j* J [(1) I never use any other than a common phimosis-knife, which I pass flat before tb tendon, till I can feel its point against, but without penetrating the skin on the outside c the leg; then turn the edge to the tendon, which being made tense by an assistaiu I and pressed against the knife with the left thumb, I cut through with the end of tb i j knife as I withdraw it.—J. F. S.] 1379. When after from three to five days the little wound lias closet- the return of the foot to its natural position is to be set about with i machine, which gradually effects the necessary apparent change of posbj tion. Stoess’ apparatus best answers this purpose. The return of thi foot to its natural place ensues more quickly or more slowly according t the degree and duration of the curvature ; all violence must be avoidei and by the gradual reinforced degree of extending the foot and prop* soft pads, all painful pressure and excoriation are lo be avoided. Wbei the foot is brought to its natural position, Scarpa’s apparatus may t applied and the patient allowed to walk. The movements of the foot ai at first uncertain and stiff, but they improve by exercise, and in simuM proportion does the atrophic condition of the muscles diminish, to wnio end rubbing at the same time with spirits may somewhat contribute. Delpech’s apparatus (e), Stromeyer’s (/), Sooutetten’s (</), and Pauli s(//) are used for this purpose. Pauli, when after two or three days the little wound ,s surrounds the foot with a mould of plaster of Paris, which he makes in a • jointed wooden boot and leaves to harden. If the proper position of the foot canm* at once effected, he renews it frequently (1). ... . . ... ArM1,u In not very great curvature, the foot often at once, after the division ot tnc a tendon, can be restored to its natural position, and in these cases the extending may be at once applied. In most cases, however, this is impossible, or pain, (a) Medicinische und chirurgische Bemerkungen. Fr*nkf., 1789. p. 3S5. p, (6) Ueber die Scliivachung dcr Sehne durch (d) Bulletin de IAcademie de Med H Einsclineidung, als einem Mittel bei manchon Glicderverunstaltungen; in Hufei-anii's and Himi.y’s Journal, vol. vi. Nov. 18.11, p. 3. (c) Sieboi.d’s Sammlung seltener und auserle- senorchirurgischen Beobachtungen, vol. iii. p- 2J8. Decemlier, 183S. (e) Above cited, pi. ix. (e) Above If) PI. iii. On pi- vi. \h) Above oiled, fig.