URINARY CONCRETIONS. 515 I AVetzlar objects that stones, although existing in an organic fluid, p are not to be considered as organic bodies ; and that their structure and i form have nothing which entitles them to be called so : that the as- I sumption of a changed condition of the uric acid, and a peculiar It affection of the urinary passages, is hypothetical; that an increased ' production of uric acid is by no means necessary for the formation of . stone, as no precipitation of the uric acid is caused by it; that the natural quantity of uric acid is sufficient to yield material for con- cretion ; and that the free state of uric acid, hitherto considered as a natural condition, is an unnatural one, and the' proximate cause of stone. He is of opinion that the uric acid occurs in combination with soda, and when, instead of the weak lactic acid, which is the free acid of the urine (1), and may co-exist with the urate of soda, a stronger acid is secreted, which decomposes that salt, then the uric acid is pre- cipitated ; an opinion which Trout had already advanced, with regard to the. occurrence of uric acid with ammonia, in the urine, and the pre- _ppitation of the former by the development of another free acid. Al- J though Magendie has not admitted the transmission of acids into the !| urine, yet A\7eltzlar believes that an excess of acids in the juices p may occur from acid drinks, sour wines, bad sour beer, unnatural acidity m in the prinue via, especially in children; and that it may also occur from the relative want of another element, as hydrogen. The secretion , the urine in the kidneys is assumed to be from a process of oxi- lation and combustion ; if this be more quick, active, and ener- i tl'en’ blstead °f weak lactic acid, a stronger acid is secreted, A “ouch decomposes the urate of soda. Here the doctrine of Austin and |Waether, of a sort of inflammatory irritation of the urinary organs, i •? S°me Cases’ be. wel1 founded, as an inflammatory condition of ■ the kidneys is the excitant of a more powerful oxidating process for |-he secretion of urine, and is thus actually the cause of lithogenesis. | lhe connecting medium, the animal gluten, is, according to Wetzlar ? , ae?essaiT for the production of stone. This always goes on slowly IZ 'i * easy t0 comprehend how as this precipitation slowly takes place, Klfpi molecules O uric acid unite, attract animal matter, especially I JutrV he neighbourhood of the fragment, and gradually increase. 1 tnno ■h0wever’ )s 110 organic growth. That the materials of which 1 -„nl lC0T°Sed.are nearly a]1 uncrystallized in it, as Yon AValther be 2/™” lts orfan,lc formation, is very natural, as even without i ve S Whlf,h Prevents crystallization, these constituents | Zll 1 disposition thereto, even out of the body. In sand and rate of 1S a ?eP°f because there is an excessive production of Le urine d ^ Sa 18 VGry quickly separated and discharged with | r [in'i*freshBmilk) e*lstencf of lactic acid, either in the urine, - oftne^agnest ^ ^ a chemioaf ?g Y ^is not necessary to seek anxiously after la eertai,, (“JJ*°r th® ?.eposit of unc acid; it is sufficient to say, that idh isturbance of Y^18. 0. ’ '6 constitution, under the influence of peculiar L (a) ^ t Vitality of the kidneys, a very insoluble constituent is <» *mie '^IgYTsiI" ML'ns,ht'11 und fleisdifrcssenden Thiere; in Annalen der 2 l 2