EXTIRPATION OF SCIRRHOUS BREAST. 797 cases, instead of the operation stopping the disease, it actually seems to hasten its pro- gress.” (p. 192.) This statement fully bears out that of Lekoy d’Etiolles. * Brodie then at length proceeds to mention the circumstances under which scirrhous tumours are not likely to be cured by operation, and in which, therefore, it is im- proper; and these are briefly pointed out by his enumeration of the conditions suitable for the operation, m his reply to the question, “ What are the cases, then, in which the removal of the breast is proper ? ” “ Where, on careful examination, no appearance of disease can be detected in the skm; where there is no dimple in the skin over the tumour; where there is no diseased gland in thz axilla; where there is no sign of internal mischief; where there is no adhesion of the breast to the parts below; and where the patient is not very much advanced in life ;-in a case where this fortunate combination of circumstances exists we may presume that there is a reasonable chance of an operation being successful. Still I must not be misunderstood, as saying, that in every one of such cases there will be a permanent cure ; nor do I say more than this, that the chance of a cure is sufficient to warrant you in recommending the patient to submit to an operation ; and that I have the satisfaction of knowing several persons on whom I have performed the operation under these circumstances, who are now alive and well, and who, otherwise would cer- tainly have been dead long ago.” (pp. 199, 200.) He then mentions two Lis in the one, the patient was operated on fourteen, and the other thirteen years since and both are £”t 45) “ good health. Bransby Cooper informs ml, that hehad ‘‘ removed f retleH ;^al'gDfnt brea,St°fMrs- ’ and it u-as eleven years and half before it returned in the cicatrix, and then killed her.” In the summer of l sue t „ TZ'Sr, “™r~ of small bean, which had been discovered only two months. In this’case there W The°mre?ri'eDCei ° ,lhe disease’ and the woman has been and still is in good hellth friend ^ h°Wever’ of which 1 aware is one operated on by my ™^„atf0Vh‘S ™”“ was not destr»Jed ““ d««f till twenty-two ess r,36°-' Th.e removal of a scirrhous breast is effected either W or£!i^ the woun"’ 'vhich is then tf beTken holf If Tft SeParated from the swelling, aP, separated from The W 1 the ^S&Ta or with a book, lifted from within out war I muscle, and afterwards from the upper sprinkleTon the wound Z ?T ^ut imvards * and -ater if to Vessels must duri.,7 tb« ?• k ? 14 clear of blood. The bleedim- must during the operation, be compressed by the fingers of the