658 BRONCHOCELE; TYING OF SUPERIOR THYROIDEAL ARTERY. thyroideal artery, aud the direction of the cut through the skin, and this step of tl operation has been subjected to as definite rules, as for finding arteries in other parts J i the body. According to Jameson and Zang, the cut through the skin should be begt on the middle of the lobe of the thyroid gland, near the upper edge of the thyro cartilage, and continued for the length of two inches, according to Jameson, of on towards the clavicle, von Walther and others fix for the beginning of the cut tl space between the tongue-bone and the thyroid cartilage, from which it is to be co tinued three inches in length on the inner edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus, towards tl breast-bone. According to Langenbeck. and Bujalsky, it should begin immediate j over the submaxillary gland, and be carried down in a straight line to the lower edge * the thyroid cartilage. All these rules are, however, precarious; the situation and cour of the superior thyroideal artery vary so considerably, according to the size and exte sion of the bronchocele in different directions, that any such determination of the begi. ning and extent of the wound through the skin, cannot in general apply, and the abov. mentioned rules on this point can alone be held with. 2176. The patient having been put to bed, with his head a little raise and laid on the side, must be kept quiet and treated precisely as when a artery is tied for aneurysm. It seems in this case always advisable afti the operation to have recourse to a not inconsiderable blood-letting, ft the purpose of checking a great flow of blood to the brain. If inflamnut tory symptoms, difficulty of breathing and swallowing, headache, and tl like, should occur, general and local blood-lettings are to be considers the most efficient remedies. Violent cough requires extract of lujoscj amus, together with antiphlogistic means. If both superior thyroideal arteries require tying, that of the offu side must be tied after the wound of the first operation have healed. Aftc tying, the bronchocele loses its elastic feel, the pulsation diminishes, tl warmth lessens, and the swelling becomes smaller and shrivelled. 2177. If this operation be compared with those modes of treatmei formerly recommended in that stage of bronchocele which threater danger, as extirpation of the thyroid gland, the introduction of a setot or issues, it must undoubtedly be preferred, partly on account of its eas performance, and partly for its happy result, when the bronchocele is of tl vascular kind, that is, depending more on the enlargement of the vesse than on the thickening of the uninjectable part of its tissue, or on the poui ing out of lymph-clots and degenerations in its cells. If the growth r the bronchocele cannot be in any way prevented, dangerous sympton may be produced, and the superior thyroideal artery felt pulsating^ ® tinctly. A slight degree of still little developed general affection ot tt vessels accompanying aneurysmal bronchocele must not contraindicate operation; but in far advanced diseased alteration of the heart and arte rial system, those ill consequences at least may accrue after the operatioi which happen after the operation for aneurysm, when there is a11 rysmal diathesis (1). If these circumstances be carefully considered w fore the operation, and that performed with due caution, the result*!> 1 most cases, correspond with our expectations. To this must be ad that aneurysmal struma, as above mentioned, {par. 2167,) is not common that the symptoms may be illusory, since the bronchocele characterized aneurysmal, exhibits in its interior more or less thickening, cavities ■ cells filled with serous or brownish fluid, and that such bronchocele ni also be efficiently treated with seton (a); hence the propriety of tying superior thyroideal artery is not disparaged. von Walther doubts the possibility of the growth of the turnon tying the superior thyroideal artery, and asserts the adhesion ot a (n) Rust's Magaxin, above cited.—I.angknbeck, above cited.