9 CHARACTERS OF DIFFERENT KINDS. of the contents of the sac, -with a gurgling noise, whilst the remaining contents cannot be'returned; and on the removal of the fingers, the rupture reacquires its original size, but admits of the same diminution, by pressure, only again to recover its bulk when the efforts at reduction are given up. This is very easily explained, as the fluid contained in the sac being pressed, squeezes between the sac and its contents into the cavity of the belly, although the intestine or omentum is so firmly grasped by the stricture that it cannot be returned.—J. F. S.] 1124. The omental rupture feels doughy, irregular, often rope-like, has a more cylindrical form with a broader base, is more slowly developed, is more difficult to reduce, is unaccompanied with any gurgling, and produces a heavy dragging upon the stomach. 1125. Vesical rupture is distinguished by the swelling fluctuating, enlarging, and becoming tense, if the patient retain his urine, and diminishing when he discharges it; and by pressure on the swelling- exciting a disposition to void the urine. Frequently after making water, the tumour does not diminish, but the patient does not feel any disposition to urine, when it is pressed. As the bladder is always more or less dragged or pulled, the patient has a frequent disposition to make water; frequently the urine is completely retained, and in introducing a catheter' it must be observed that it be conducted in a peculiar manner into the bladder. If the vesical be complicated with omental or intestinal rupture the symptoms are confused. Not unfrequently a stone is formed in the protruded part of the-bladder. 1126. As to the other intestines which may be in the rupture the position of the rupture, its condition, and the disturbed functions of the contained parts, afford the key. If several parts be together in the rupture, these symptoms are confused. 11 27. Ruptures are always extremely important diseases. If they be left alone, and their neighbourhood be undisturbed, they always increase • the local and general inconveniences become greater, and the intestines may descend in such quantity into the rupture, that the greater part of By the changes produced in the hernial sac {par. Ills) and the contained parts, the return of the rupture is rendered impossible, or strangulation is produced. 1128. The intestines contained in the rupture, may, in consequence of 522?“^ t0 each or with th/hernial sZ^Sdthe or iT mavTJfil6 ^ ^ %mer® t t0gether with a gelatinous mass, sssr °"e <* distinguished from those muscular cent ",testine ™ay d(:Pend on the great development of their forward its contentsTfl °h Tlolent straining, for the purpose of driving of fibrine. ’ ie °kstructed return of the blood, or in the deposit stricturTlnTfom^ff freqiiendy very much changed in reference to its ’ it is usually thick and hard at the neck of the sac;