HARD POLYPS. 727 bony walls of which they often burst asunder by their pressure, in conse- quence of which, the polyp itself is often torn, ulcerates and adheres at different points. In consequence of the strangulation which the polyp undergoes, the blood collects in it, and it becomes bluish; by the tearing of the vessels considerable bleeding ensues; it sometimes inflames, ulcer- ates, becomes gangrenous, and throws off its lobes ; sometimes it is painful, at other times not so. 2310. This division of polyps does not indicate all the differences which they present. Oftentimes the polyp remains in the same state a long while, and is restricted to the same size; sometimes it grows quickly ; but at other times this only happens in consequence of some accidental irritation. In consequence of such irritation, various changes are set up in its tissue, i and may run on to scirrhous degeneration. There is then considerable ! hardness, the tissue becomes lard-like; severe lancinating pains occur ; a lb stinking ichorous fluid continually flows from it; it bleeds on the slightest i touch, and grows excessively quick. The degeneration of a polyp into i cartilage, has been, although rarely, observed. In other respects, the K; tissue of one and the same polyp is every where the same. 2311. The symptoms specially produced by polyps are different accord- 1 ing to their nature, size, and seat. At first the polyp is painless, and the fi-annoyances from it depend on the pressure which the walls of the cavity t and the neighbouring parts suffer from it; as it enlarges both the hard * and soft parts by which it is surrounded are burst asunder, the bones thin, mbecome fragile, and at some parts are, as well as the soft parts, completely v-’destroyed.. If the polyp be painful, it appears to be the result of incipient ^degeneration. The then always increasing, continual pain, the frequent fcfbleedings, and the destruction of the neighbouring parts, lead on to death .'(from exhaustion, or it results from the pressure made upon important -sjoarts. The harder the polyp, the more is cancerous degeneration to be I feared. Soft are much less dangerous than hard polyps, and so long as hey retain their cellular structure, no inflammation or degeneration !: 'eadily takes place in them. k I have frequently noticed medullary^/angi/s of mucous membranes, in form of gray- 1 ur or retltl's1' excrescences, without any symptom indicating the great danger of » nat disease. After removal, the excreseuces soon came again, and caused death, by the 1 oent!10110" °f tllG neiSlll)ouring parts, in consequence of their unrestrainable enlarge- I 2312- The proximate cause of polyps is an alteration of the vegetative processes depending on continued irritation of the mucous membrane, ■producing these new and peculiar formations, which are either developed i trom the parenchyma, or from the deeper tissues which the mucous mem- Mrane overspreads, and are thereby distinguished from the mere swelling H,l !e membrane, which has the same tissue as the membrane, ln, Hyps there js nothing resembling it. In mucous polyps, the S.. Ura ormation is confined simply to the mucous parenchyma of the m r°fl\ ,ra,10’1 *rom which any participation of the vessels is wholly .hnrwi'ri ’ arf ^iere^ore without any vascular apparatus, and are to be •Itin ere< m,y ,as Processes an,l dependencies of the unnaturally vege- ■ier?iPT' . ■ymC\' oversPread with epidermis, the tissue of which, when Jin • 1Sfa S-° lrreSu^ar enlargement of the vessels of the mucous membrane, K|?tiec a*lc complication,) are drenched with transuding blood, or in : mly cha rr° j S} mucous juices, which, however, are only inorganic-