451 ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. ccmaxn' (a), on the great overlapping of the parietal bones during delivery; j&okurba (o), on a distension of the soft parts of the head, accompanied with greater ■h] less pressure, and depending rather on one, than on the coincidence of several ij ises, in which the vessels, in consequence of the peculiar condition of the infant .!> janism, permit a trickling through of the blood. Bartsch assumes a me- ■ , mical violence, which presses on a projecting part of the bone, (as, for in- fo nee, the crest of the hip-bone,) for a short time, and unequally, or a violent fa .ugh short enduring irritation with which the vessels are affected, and which, it-.ether with the influx of the blood from the commencing respiration, they jpioiot withstand, and transude the blood through the weakened walls of the vessels. A*! cl Dubois (c) seeks for the cause in the peculiar structure of the bones of the head, lit their still imperfect ossification, they present fibres lying near each other, which i - m the elevation of the parietal bone, diverge, as from a common focus, towards the fcphery. Between these bony fibres there remain small fine clefts, which have not ■her the length or whole thickness of the bone. They exhibit a correspondently I ngy structure, appear to be penetrated with a large quantity of blood, so that after ! removal of the pericranium and dura mater, the blood may be squeezed out of these es and interspaces. The blood appears therefore during life to be enclosed in interspaces of the bony fibres by the dura mater and pericranium, and to stand : lose relation with them. If now one or other of these membranes be deficient at small part, an outpouring of blood takes place, and this may happen from any ■Jence operating on the head of the foetus in its passage through a narrow pelvis, its passage over hard, unyielding walls, or by the application of the forceps, the same way, on account of an original disposition, the natural connexion of ‘ pericranium at a certain point may be so weak, that the impulse even of the cir- i ntion may raise it up. In a similar manner, even a disease of the bone, as it t peases the influx of blood, can produce outpouring of blood by its destroying the iral connexion of the pericranium. Busch (d) observed on the hind-head of a |id, probably many days dead, and delivered by the violent use of the forceps, a It!sh, blood-sac, on opening which, there appeared a communication with the sinus. Me opinion founded on this circumstance as to the origin of blood-swellings of the - Id is less to be received, as the case was not that blood-swelling of the head which or, are now considering. Flint (e) describes a similar case of an outpouring of blood pi the hind-head of a child several days after birth, which, as dissection proved, i, connected by an opening in the diseased bone with the sinus of the brain ; on which :j bunt, the child died after a cut had been made into it. . 855. The result of the examination of the cavities of these blood- % ‘*!inSs after their previous opening during life, or on examination after iYth, varies according to the different period of the course of the disease, d the beginning, the blood is found more pale-red, and fluid ; afterwards, thicker, clotted, and blackish blood, even a tough jelly, (Palletta,) ; king to the bone, is collected between the skull and the pericranium. i :e external surface of the bone is sometimes rather wasted but smooth ttrietimes rough and eaten away, and, under the already mentioned b'turns tan ces, the destruction of the bone is more considerable, and pene- •ing even to the dura mater. At the commencement of the swelling W pericranium is firmly attached to the bone, but afterwards, when W cation begins from the pericranium, a delicate bony layer is observed : fits internal surface, and, as it were, attached to it (Krauss) ; and if ILT' f process extend further, a cartilaginous layer with some s of bone, or a firm bony plate appears, which imperceptibly passes . 0uter. surface of the bone at the base of the swelling, and from hrCan be seParated as easily as from every other part of -‘lone. I he cavity beneath this bony plate is filled with a grumous, i Py> gelatinous mass. (Buuchaud.) The upper surface of the skull 0**treicli. Mt'd?iahrbncher w,)'iv n <111 Schadel-Rliitgeschwulste neugehorener Kinder; 1 Above cited. ,vol. iv. p. 4.1, in Heidelberger klinischen Annnlen.vol. ii. p. 245. ) Kin Beitrag7,ur Aufkliirung des Wescn, der p. tnB,and Jonrn,‘l of Medicine, vet. ix. 2 a 2