1004 RESECTION OF THE BLADE-BONE AND COLLAR-BONE. blood within it, which formed a tumour that by degrees involved and destroyed nearly t e whole bone, except at its sternal end. He made “ a crucial incision through the integument and platysma myoides, one limb of which was nearly in the line of the c avicle, and the other at right angles ; and the flaps and fascial coverings successively issected down to the external basis of the tumour. The pectoralis and deltoid muscles 6n careful|y detached from their clavicular origin, avoiding the cephalic vein, and the fibres of the trapezius and cleido-mastoid muscles divided on a director. One considerable vessel, in the situation of the transversalis humeri, required a prompt liga- tui e. The circumference of the tumour was now well defined, though it was found to be firmly imbedded and adherent on its posterior aspect. Disarticulation of the scapular extiemity of the bone was next effected without difficulty, and the mobility thus com- municated to the mass facilitated the completion of the operation. A director was now worked beneath the bone, as near to the sternal articulation as was practicable, and with a pair of strong bone-nippers thus introduced, it was completely and clearly divided. The subclavius muscle and a part of the rhomboid ligament were now detached from the tumour, and the mass being well raised by an assistant, while the edges of the wound were kept wide apart by metallic retractors, the cervical prolongations of the tumour were separated from their remaining connections by a few touches of the scalpel, with- out injury to the subclavian vessels, (pp. 137, 38.) A twelvemonth after, the boy had the full and free use of the arm.” (p. 147.)] Mott gives the following account of his removal of the collar-bone:—“ The inci- sion extended from the articulation at the sternum to the top of the shoulder, in a semi- circular direction ; below, the dissection, to get under the tumour, was on a line with the fourth rib; above, in a direction to the top of the shoulder, an inch below the thy- roid cartilage and base of the jaw, and terminated at the same point with the first. The tumour of a bony character, was in contact with the coracoid process, insomuch that I was obliged to saw it through near the acromion scapula. Below, the vein was imbedded in the tumour, from the coracoid process to the scalenus anticus. Then my attention was directed to separating the tumour from the deep-seated fascia of the neck, to pro- tect the deep-seated jugular and thoracic duct, the operation being on the left shoulder.” “ This operation far surpassed in tediousness, difficulty", and danger, anything which I have ever witnessed or performed. It is impossible for any description which we are capable of giving, to convey an accurate idea of its formidable nature. The attach- ment of the morbid mass to the important structures of the neck and shoulder of the left side, is sufficient to indicate its magnitude and difficulty.” So arduous was the task of separating the diseased clavicle from the vessels and thoracic duct, that he was at one time, he said, almost inclined to doubt the possibility of accomplishing his purpose (a). The operation lasted four hours, and thirty vessels were tied. The tumour, when separated, was the size of two fists. Chaumet (6) of Bordeaux removed four-fifths of the clavicle, on account of a tumour originating from it.] [IV.—Resection of Blade-bone and Collar-bone together. This formidable operation was successfully undertaken by Musset, of Cincinnati, who has published an interesting account of it (c). In 1818 a patient consulted him about a tumour connected with the thumb, for which the first metacarpal bone was removed. Several years later, pain attacked the humerus, which became greatly enlarged, and in 1831 the arm was amputated at the shoulder-joint. In 1836 the same disease appeared in the shoulder, and accordingly Musset undertook the com- plete removal of the scapula and clavicle in September, 1837. “The tumour was round and prominent, measuring horizontally over the sum- mit, from the anterior to the posterior margin of its base, 14 inches, and vertically, from the upper to the lower margin of its base, 10 inches.” The integuments were dissected away from the clavicle, that bone dis- jointed from the sternum, its sternal extremity elevated and detached from the subclavius muscle, so as to admit of the finger of an assistant (n) American Journal of (lie Medical Sciences, (r) American Journal of the Medical Sciences* vol. ii. p. 482. 1828. vol. xxi. p. 390. 1837. (6) Gaz Med. de Paris, vol. i. p. 209. 1846.