OUTPOURING OF BLOOD INTO THE JOINT-CAVITIES. 457 | Much constitutional excitement followed, clots of blood and profuse purulent discharge I endued, and after six weeks he got well.” (p. 210-12.) E More commonly, however, if the outpoured blood be not absorbed in a few weeks, it Si becomes an irritant, suppuration is set up within the vaginal tunic to get rid of itthe S scrotum on that side becomes of a dusky-red colour, and more or less tender, and, if left tf, alone, will sometimes point, and then clots of blood with bloody pus are discharged, and • continue till the whole sac is emptied, when healthjTsuppuration follows, and the cavity | the tunic is obliterated, I have seen two or three instances of this kind. When its H existence is suspected it is best to make a free cut from top to bottom of the vaginal tunic so as to empty its contents at once, healthy suppuration soon comes on, and the ;p oatient is cured.—J. F. S.] 1866. As to the outpouring of blood into the substance of the testicle, itj t is probable that it may be confused with some organic changes of that $i organ ; and if, in consequence of a violent bruising, blood be extravasated if: .vithin the tunica albuginea, and the above-recommended treatment, i#i castration must be considered necessary. ; [As the formation of hydrocele has been already shown (par. 1199, note) to take place •occasionally in the spermatic cord, so does hsematocele, ,as was noticed by Pott, who — ays“ The last species of this disease (hsematocele) arises from a bursting of a branch i )f the spermatic vein, between the groin and the scrotum, in what is generally known by itt ;he name of the spermatic process. This, which is generally produced by great or sud- felen exertions of strength, feats of agility, &c., may happen to persons in the best health. * * The effusion or extravasation is made into the cellular membrane which invests rrtnd envelopes the spermatic vessels, and has something the appearance of a true hernia.” 6; pp. 391, 92.) If discutient remedies be unavailing, Pott recommends the swelling J ;hould be cut into, and either the bleeding stanched with styptics, or, if the vessel be t arge, that it should be tied singly, and if that be insufficient, that even the testicle should arue removed, and the whole end tied. L Curi.ing says :—“An encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord may beconvertedinto Bi n hsematocele. In the Pathological Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital there is a bh preparation of encysted hsematocele of the spermatic cord. The cyst is empty, but it y s described to have contained blood, and its walls are deeply stained with the colour n >f partially decomposed blood. Its lining membrane is wrinkled and coarsely granular, PM thte tissues around it are thickened, tawny, and adherent together. I lately ex- l -mined a preparation in the Hunterian Collection, which I have no doubt is a specimen a ’’fold encysted hsematocele of the spermatic cord. There is a good sized cyst, lined by 1 membrane, polished, and a little wrinkled, filled with a soft tawny-looking granular ,j natter, resembling the altered coagulum of blood which I have observed in ordinary ucmatocele after long maceration in spirit. The tissues around the cyst are thickened Vfi-.m indurated, just like those around an old hsematocele of the testicle.” (pp. 249, 50.)] - III. OF OUTPOURING OF BLOOD INTO THE CAVITIES OF JOINTS. 1867. A collection of blood in the cavity of a joint occurs rarely, and f1!5 only the consequence of a violent bruise or wrench of a joint, or of a : vound, if the blood cannot escape through the outer opening. The quick iR ecurrence of the swelling after one of the above-mentioned causes, dis- inguishes it from other swellings. id menlions an instance of blood getting within the capsular ligament of the - , "^-joint in consequence of a wound, but no harm followed, and it was absorbed without avmg caused any inconvenience.] If J i iThe !reatment consists in the use of cold applications, general R'", local antiphlogistic remedies, by which dispersion is effected. In ner respects the rules laid down (par. 557 and onwards) must be borne (a) Practical Observations on Surgery, p. 354.