BEANCHING ANEUEYSM. 273 id Chelius. The former specially observes:—“ If the vein be not in immediate con- ct with the artery, or if the blood meet with obstruction in its passage from one to the her, in consequence of the obliquity of the wound, the employment of compression, or iy other cause, the cellular membrane connecting the vein and artery may be dilated to an aneurysmal sac, through which the two vessels will communicate with each her. In this case the vein will be removed to some distance from the artery, and the .eurismal sac will be situated betxceen the two vessels; the blood will first pass from the tery into the aneurismal sac, and from the aneurismal sac into the dilated vein. This xietv of disease may with propriety be denominated varicose aneurism, to distinguish from aneurismal varix.” (p. 507.) In Perry’s case, however, there was nothing of is kind. He says:—“ Atthe spot in the thigh where the communication had been pre- med to exist between the artery and vein there was an aneurismal sac about as large a walnut, firmly ossified within, which, by the pressure it had exerted upon the vein, d caused absorption of its coats, so as to form a circular opening of about two lines in meter, into which the aneurism had burst; thus inducing a free and persistent eom- mication between the vessels. Just below the aperture, the vein was obliterated at a lgle point, below which it was again pervious. In all the rest of its course up the igh it was diminished in size and thickened.” (p. 42.) From this it will be clearly ;n, there was neither condition of a varicose aneurysm, neither an intermediate sac, r a dilated vein, but exactly the contrary. Neither was it an aneurysmal varix, for jre was no. special tumour of the vein, nor was it enlarged, but just the contrary, Unfinished in size and contracted.” If the account of the case be carefully examined, hink it must be admitted that it is none other than a simple case of aneurysm, having : very rare termination of bursting into a vein, just as in the cases already mentioned ir. 1402, note) where aneurysms of the aorta have burst into the pulmonary artery, which reality belongs to the venous system, as it conveys the spoiled blood to the lungs for rification. That so far as the femoral artery was concerned, it was subject to aneu- sm by dilatation cannot be disputed, for Perry says “ the coats of the femoral artery, •oughout its whole course, were scarcely, if at all thicker than those of a vein, the enuation having, as careful dissection afterwards proved, taken place equally in all coats. Immediately below the origin of the profunda the vessel was greatly dilated, U Jving the appearance of an aneurysmal sac. Its coats were here softened and much at enuated, large enough to admit the point of the ring-finger.” (pp. 41, 42.) The ossifi- h ion of the aneurysmal sac at which the artery communicated with the vein has nought tt do with the question.—J. F. S.] B.-UNNATUEAL EXPANSION IN THE BEANCHES AND EAMIFI- CATIONS OF AETEEIES. fi VON W aether, Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkund, vol. v. p. 244. | Breschet, above cited. 1495. An unnatural expansion of an artery, to a greater or less extent d ten throughout its whole length, and in its most principal ramifications’ th simultaneous lengthening of the vessel, which becomes tortuous, and th numerous curvings and windings, forms swellings of various size, on iny parts presents knotty elevations, or little circumscribed aneurysmal ' '6TgS’ which sometimes are true sac-like aneurysms, sometimes also 'fX, aneurysms, with torn internal coat, (Breschet,) produces Branching neurysm {Aneurysma racemosum, A. cirsoideum, A. anastomoticum ■ anastomosium, Varix arterialis, Tumor sanguineus arteriosus ) It ! "n'Lm0SAu0mm0n.1y in arteries of the third or fourth order; on the r danches of the carotid, labial, temporal, occipital, ophthalmic, and supe- u artf1CS 5 on the arteries of the fore-arm and leg ; in the l4Qfi 'U'n^S °n t ie palm an(l s°ie; and in the vessels of the periosteum. 2 )nof 1 1,s aneurysm IS characterized by a more or less strong pulsa- i ^san, hvteVe+? 6Tr!ded ,arterie8’ and their various arches and branch- Irvarious^; Jl°tt^’-8gfti • ’Vld’ Pulsatlng swellings, forming distinct tumours vol n ’ " UC 1 16 oootiguously in rows, or even upon each other. T