OPERATION FOll FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. 689 separated with the finger, or with the knife-handle; or if its connexion iff firmer, it may be carefully cut away with the knife ; or that part of the tra mater to which it is attached may be cut off; or a ligature may be ■plied with a loop-tier, which, however, on account of the readiness th which serious symptoms are set up, should be tied with very great ifiution (a). The after-treatment is to be guided according to the rules n d down for the operation of trepanning. a Only under the above-mentioned restrictions, is the removal of the fungus permis- ■ le; in every other case the operation merely hastens death. Thus, in Berard’s (b) rfj ;e, who by means of sixteen applications of the trephine, made an opening in the ST1! five inches long and four and a half wide, which laid bare the dura mate/with the t! igitudinal sinus and the upper edge of the falx, after the removal of the outer part of a ■ swelling, pulsation was observed in the restol'it; faintingand convulsions immediately ® '“ed’ a°d *he Patient died in twenty-four hours. The swelling arose from the outer S tace ot the dura mater, and after destroying the bone, had protruded through oblong aperture, whilst its base spread beneath the skull. Its structure resembled ® t ot brain, the inner surface of th e-dura mater was healthy. 1 dfi.I°LI (c) removed a fungus of the dura mater successfully. A little swelling pro- ;■ M beneath the right ear, accompanied with loss of sight, and had gradually reached ° °!,a Sma 1 jut- The whole swelling pulsated, but was compressible, and the s sation then ceased; it also for the most part ceased when the temporal artery of that 2 l XJOmp^.ssed‘ Neither bony edge nor crepitation was felt beneath, or on the a ;w/i„etSWellln?- ,The disease was thought to be a temporal aneurysm. In three if As the tumour had increased about two-thirds; head-ache and singing in the ears ,, e on, and an operation was thought necessary. The artery having been compressed a ATtnmo WaS ma,de thr°Ugli tde CoverinSs> a”d the temporal muscle cut through* 1 t thch Was tee,P1er’ and the operator ascertained it was not aneurysmal, and 3 ets St\WraonPl°iably rtetitsL After dividing the pericranium, a. hard! irregular I fo..n., d ™ nd tde swelling The pericranium having been separated, the bone 0 * unon th pit t0 I’6 a half-dollar; the tumour was seated with a broad ,, lpi^i ,/,“m mfter’fnd difficult as it was, Orioli removed as much as possible of E length and breadth of the fibro-fleshy mass. Two arteries were plugged, and the 1 MdsomeV?" the “mth day the wound was sloughy; the slough separated gradu- f ated svnchrP , °f were also thrown off- The bottom of the wound now I nd cfeansed thUS y 1 1 ftenes and with the movements of the brain. As the 1 n,a cleansed, there appeared however on one side a swelling, similar to the former 1 C0,npreSSed with lint. In fifty days the cure was complete A | n were telt^ Th,.^ ™ *e‘e lhe hole \n ,the bone was, and the movements of the 1 ely lost. ’ h S1Dgmg ln the ears subsided ; sleep returned, but sight was com- * esides the above-mentioned writers, the following may also be consulted », ,e am , 'n.tst(‘bunK und Ausgang emer hetriichtlichen und mit dem Wind- v -on.ivobii. t 667fphn8,e9.en SCr°phuloSen SPeckgeschwulst auf dem Scheitel; in I S°r>S- TUbCreU“S P- *»f 1- Exercila- I Wvelhier, Anatomie pathologique du Corps humain, livr. viii., | IVUXR, B., Dissert de Fungo Dura; Matris et Cranii. Monachii, 1829, | asius, De Fungi Dura; Matris accuratiori distinctione. Hal 1829 •sbner, Dissert, de Fungo Dura; Matris. Heidelb., 1832. ,invert, Dissert, de Fungo Capitis in universum, et de Fungo Dura; Matris in specie. in hart"’,,' llTrnl!'0 scbwammigen Auswiichse ivAi.T,IFa’sy‘",ha.uti ,ln. V0N CJRAK1K und j Journal, vol. ii. p, 213. 1 i°L. I| gazette Medicate, vol. i. p. 735. J833. Bulletino delle Seienza Mediche. May,, 2 Y