809 CYSTIC SWELLING OF THE TESTICLE. 2489. A simple hydrocele cannot well be confounded with sarcocele. Only at first, when the collection of water is not great, it is sometimes accom- panied with severe pain on account of the distension of the vaginal tunic which, in connexion with the great hardness of the swelling, may lead to a mistake. But when that tunic is considerably thickened, and even cartilaginous, the feel is easily confused, and the practitioner may mistake the swelling for hydrosarcocele. In this latter complaint, however, the hind part of the swelling is generally harder and knobby ; the spermatic cord is also usually knotty, and there is lancinating pain. In doubtful cases puncture always resolves the difficulty. 2490. Cystic swelling of the testicle begins with a thickening of the epididymis; it is, however, generally only first noticed when&the disease has spread over the testicle, and has made some progress In addition to the swelling, the testicle retains its natural form, round in iront, flattened on the sides, and not so bean-shaped as in hydrocele. Between the testicle and the epididymis, usually, though not always, the natural me of distinction still remains. The swelling is not tender if not sub- jected to violent pressure, but when smartly pressed, the patient feels as if lV ft WT sc£eeZeCi-. The tumour yields to pressure, though it not show true fluctuation ; if it be compressed at one part with the nvff’ -P ?S n0t! raiSed- at a,?other Part> but merely appears to yield all , ' f ,ai“ &ud, uneasiness in the loins are produced by the weight and size of the testicle, although the disease still remains local a ?*a“ininS a testicle of this kind after removal, the vaginal tunic is ound thickened, in part adherent, and the tunica albuginea firmer • the testicle appears to consist partly of firm tissue and partly of cysts, the size of Which varies from that of the head of a large pin to that of a musket-ball smaller cysts, of which the walls are very vascular, contain a serous i a muc°r yd °Wlsh flllld’ and the ,ar8'er> of which the walls are thick, have efferent s"b®,“fe* f™ Cooper believes the cysts to be obstructed fferent tubes, into which a diseased secretion is poured out Nothing SSe%:Xnrl,ahM°ori0naI ^^ ussr ln ,,,tlroce,e- ^ makes only irreoulnr «i, . ’ IG fuelling is in these cases painless, water in the Va<?irnl t Pr2^"es®’ aiK^ ln general there is a collection of testicle, and docs nnI'n1?’ •. lie disease has no relation to cancer of the developed in the / • rt’r*,ura extirpation. Scirrhus may, however, be oped in the tunica albuginea which has adhered to the vaginal tunic, («) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. 6J.