[ 192 J a.—OF PERMANENT BENDING OF THE HAND. 1392. In permanent Bending, the hand forms with the fore-arm amor or less right angle, and is at the same time in a state of increased prona : tion and adduction, or of increased supination. In both cases the linger are strongly bent. The bones and ligaments of the carpus are separate* from eacli other and outspread behind, but in front (volar surface) am contracted, and form a depression. The hand and fore-arm are more o less atrophic. „ , , , - .. Lode (a) distinguishes these two kinds of curvature of the hand, Tahporm flexor pronata seu Talipomanus vara and Talipomanus fiex0T supviala seu altp, manus valqa. All the muscles which bend the whole hand and fingers, and increase tl concavity of the hand, in the one case, the pronators, and in the other, the supinator are contracted at once. , 1393 This curvature of the hand may be congenital or acquired. A to its causes, all that has been said upon club-foot applies. I have notice curvature of the hand as a congenital deformity, once accompanvm club-foot and once with horse-foot on the same side. The treatment mus be conducted entirely according to the rules laid down for club-loot. A proper apparatus for straightening the hand is found in Lode, fig. 3. 5 OF PERMANENT STRAIGHTENING OF THE HAND. 1394 Permanent Stretching of the Hand, in which its back is nr tasted ’ in a greater or less degree, towards the fore-arm, and is at h; same time in a state of increased abduction or adduction, occurs rareljf and in reference to its aetiology and treatment, all that has been previously said applies. T ode calls this curvature Talipomanus extensa. All the extending muscles of tt L well .1.0 sometimes those museles which flatlet, the hand, sea, times the adductors and abductors, are contracted. c OF PERMANENT BENDING OF THE FINGER. Dopuytren, Retraction permanente des Doigts ; Lemons Orales de Clinique Chinr gicale, vol. i. pt. i. p. 117. , , 1395. A permanent Bending of one or more Fingers may depend o various causes, namely, on diseased changes of the p^haknges on chvis. of the tendons or palsy of the extensors, on a contracting sjmthepdn on destruction of the tendons and sheaths or contraction of the bendm muscles of the hand, and contraction and unyieldingness of the fascia. The diagnosis of these various causes is really unattended H ‘any difficulty, and depends on the kind of origin, or the perhaps e\ s ■ SCar or the possibility of moving some of the finger-joints, or on violent straightening the finger and soon. In this respect the curvature of tl finder is most important, as consequent on contraction o te pa n because, with definite diagnosis, the cure may be surdy 1396. The curvature consequent on contraction of the palmar/*** shows itself especially at the ring-finger, mostiy in pemons who are si^ to hard labour, as resulting from inflammatory affection. After ^ ♦inn of the hand pain frequently conies on, which, howe\er, s ." The fingers are gradually straightened with difficulty, and the ring- gl («) A'oovc cited.