[ 388 ] jy OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CAN/ IIevin, above cited, p. 590. 1743. When bodies, insoluble by the powers of the digestive organs,! thrust down or swallowed into the stomach, they may produce differ, symptoms, depending principally on their form and nature. Bui bodies often pass without any difficulty through the whole intestinal can pointed bodies are easily retained, and produce frequently limaiiimat and ulceration. pof the foreign substances received into the stomach, the most remarkable am- is that given by Dr. Marcet (a), of the sailor who swallowed a number of clasp knixi In June, 1799, after having witnessed a display of jugglers’ knife-swallowing, he, l-.; drunken fit, boasted he could do the same, and accordingly swallowed four P?cket-km. successively. On the following afternoon he passed one knife by stool, and on the follow dav two more, but the fourth knife never came away, nor gave him inconvenience. March, 1805, in the course of a couple of days, he swallowed fourteen knives more; on the following morning was attacked with constant vomiting and pain at his stom; which compelled him to go to the hospital, and in the course of a month, he was sal- delivered of his cargo.” In December of the same year, he swallowed on one day f and on the next fourteen more. He was very ill the next day, and obliged to put him under medical care, but without benefit till three months alter, when having taken ca oil he felt the knives “ dropping down the bowels,” and became easier, but was not aw of having passed any. ifjune, 1806, he vomited a knife-handle; m November, passed some fragments, and again m February, 1807. In August of the samey he was admitted into Guy s Hospital, where at first his account was not believed bm held fast to his story, and as he suffered intense pain at the region of the stomach, at hardness was thought to be felt, some credence was at last noticed were found of a deep black, indicating an accumulation of his bowels. On examining the rectum, a portion of the knife was felt lying acrossit, could not be extracted on account of the great pain he suffered in the attemPt* j6! it. Various attempts were made to dissolve the knives, but without success, and at ta in March, 1809, he died in a state of great emaciation On exone J blades and one of the back springs were found in the intestines, the latter, and a half long, had transfixed the colon opposite the left kidney, and projected mto cavity ofthe abdomen, while the other was stretching across the Athene o extremities actually fixed in the muscular paneto of the pelvis. Nostool ever, escaped, nor were there any signs of active inflammation. thirty or forty fragments, of which thirteen or fourteen were evidently l“,m corroded and diminished in size. They are all m the; Museum at Guy s Another instance is also related by Dr. Baknes, of Carlisle ( ), J gP ’ t 17th November, 1823, accidentally swallowed a table-knife with a tone hand , e nine inches in length. The account given by the man was, that ?,‘?®brou for a small sum of money to swallow a table-knife, a new one was from a neighbouring shop. The method by which I pretended to swallow it ^.feI the handle and part of the blade down my throat, and hold the point of t with my teeth. When I was on the point of drawing it out again,some p - • ^ unexpectedly behind me, gave me a smart stroke on the back, the *uVPrl^ , ; caused me to lose hold of the point, and immediately the whoie knife slipped^ the stomach. I directly made very violent eflorts to throw it up, but l ’ endeavours of the SurgLn were equally useless.” The man * much alarmed, expecting instant death. Attempts were made withtheid ^ long forceps to seize the knife, but it was far beyond their reach, a . in felt on the external surface of the stomach. Next day he comp aim i * . stomach, for which he was bled, and a clyster given; and aftemrM* y g the left shoulder shooting across the chest to the stomach, lie was • tly on after the handle of the knife could be felt very distinctly by P 1>ss1"g..ft, 0f‘tca < navel though slight pressure gave him considerable pain; but a sing liisappea' hide food of any kind distended the stomach so much that it entirely disappc (a) Meil.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xll. P. 52, 1822. Jameson's Edinburgh Philosoph. Journ., vol xi p. 319, ia--l-—Hadheld, AStatement of the Case of W. Dr.vrsTEB, consequence of having swallo Middlewich. A pamphlet.