155 TREATMENT. Koonhuysen (cr) and Ten IIaaf (,b) cut through the m. stemo-mastoideus from without inwards, with a fold of the skin raised. Von Meeckren (c) effected the division with a pair of scissors; Minnius (d) first destroyed the skin over the muscle with caustic, and then cut it through with scissors. Sharp (e) made a transverse-' cut through the skin, and divided the muscle from within outwards with a knife introduced behind it. This treatment was recommended by all the later writers, till Dupuytren and Dieffenbach (f) proposed the subcutaneous division of the muscle, in which manner the operation has been performed with the most successful results, by many Surgeons and by myself. 1338. The subcutaneous division of the m. stemo-mastoideus is per- formed in the following manner. The patient sitting on a stool, one assistant draws the head to the opposite side, and another pulls down the shoulder of the ailing side, in consequence of which the muscle projects strongly at its shortest part. The skin above it is then taken hold of with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, well drawn away from the parts beneath, and a narrow, slightly convex, straight knife, held flat, is to be thrust an inch or two above its lower insertion, through the skin, and carried close behind the muscle, to the other side beneath the skin, but without piercing the latter. The edge is then turned towards the muscle, and the thumb of the left hand being placed on the muscle, to fix it against the edge, the muscle is divided, without cutting the skin, in drawing out the knife. At the commencement of the division of the muscle, a dull and sometimes tolerably loud crack is heard, upon which the head is often immediately drawn straight by the contraction of the m. stemo-mastoideus on the other side; but sometimes the old position is retained, and even more strongly. At the moment when the knife is drawn back, if pressure be made with the thumb upon the part divided, and no blood be poured out beneath the skin, a firm compress of lint is to be applied and fastened with sticking plaster, and a bandage carried obliquely over the neck and breast. Two cloths carried round are sufficient to support the head; they do not, however, keep it straight, but leave it in its early oblique position. cnap. xxxv. (J) Rust’s llandbuch der Chirurgie,—Art, Co- lt iibstipum. (t/) Above cited, pi. viii. f. 1,2.