DROPSY OF THE PERICARDIUM; 478 Laennec (a) proposes, for the purpose of encouraging the expansion of the lung, i apply a cupping glass and syringe upon the wound. The return of resonance over the whole surface of the chest and of the respiratoiil murmur proves the subsidence of the effusion, but the continuance of the dull sou does not prove its continuance ; for very frequently pseudo-membranes form after pli ritic effusion, which overspread the lung to various extent, and in some instances co > pletely envelope it. As these pseudo-membranes produce a dull sound the continual. A of the effusion may he presumed, although it have already ceased. When these pseu< q membranes have long existed, and the patient is attacked with bronchitis or rheumaifl pain on the ailing side, it may be mistaken for an attack of pleurisy. But with pseu< q membranes the dull sound does not change its place according to the posture of t patient, and its height is not so well defined as in effusion. It rises to the same heig.l on the fore, and hind part of the chest, and this distinction is often so great thatt ft whole hind part of the chest gives the dull sound, whilst the fore part is perfect ;i sonorous. The dull sound may also exist at the upper or middle part of the che whilst the lower remains sonorous. A partial, circumscribed outpouring may, in tl i case, present the same peculiarity; but then, according to Louis, a partial elevation ; rt the chest has been noticed, as on the contrary, when the dull sound is caused by psenctj q membrane consequent on effusion which has compressed the lung, not unfrequently si slight sinking in of the diseased side is perceived by mensuration. When the raspbd it sound is also heard the presence of pseudo-membrane is beyond doubt (b). [The operation for empyema has been of late years not unfrequently performed -fug London, and an account has been given by the late and much regretted Dr. Thom S Davies (c) of the result of twenty-three cases, all of which, excepting six, were und his own care- Of these, eleven were operated on for empyema, eight recovered, t\ i died, and one was under treatment; nine for pneumothorax, all of whom died; ai three for hydrothorax, who also died. Davies observes, upon these cases:—“ Fir. The result of the operation in the cases of empyema is very satisfactory, eight of tl a patients out of ten have recovered. Of these, five were under six years of age, onew between eighteen and nineteen, and two were above twenty-five. Second. All ti l cases of pneumothorax were complicated with tubercular diseases of the lungs, a circur stance which, of itself, precluded a favourable result. All the patients were beyoi <: twenty years of age. Third. All the cases of hydrotliorax were the consequences -■« disease of the heart. Although none of the patients recovered, they were all relieve £sj by the operation for a considerable time.” (p. 43.)] VI.—OF DROPSY OF THE PERICARDIUM. (Hydrops Pericardii, Lat. ; Wassersucht des Herzbeutels, Germ.; Hy draper icarde, Fr.) 1904. Dropsy of the pericardium generally accompanies water in tli £ chest, and but rarely exists alone. The following symptoms accompan . it; the sensation of weight and pressure in the region of the heart, an. J a feeling as if the heart were swimming in water, great shortness r i breathing, and anxiety, which increases on the slightest movements of th I body, but especially in the horizontal posture, frequently going on t i faintness and danger of suffocation ; the beat of the heart is felt to a gr®1 extent, and at different parts ; also accompanied with violent palpitation I or more frequently a fluttering tumultuous movement of the heart, as l-j there were something lying within it. The dashing of water is often if I tinctly felt, or even seen between the third and fifth ribs. Ihe pulse i I small quick, hardish, often irregular and intermittent; cough occurs on; j spasmodically, and is dry ; the speech is difficult, and the voice hoar« ^ When the disease has existed long, the countenance is puffy, the ext l ties usually cold, and the patient feels a peculiar pain in the stomac an over the whole belly. Death follows either from suffocation or I apoplexy. (n) Above cited, vol. ii. p. 220. (V) Hibt*, P>0!fK (c) Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, above cited.