20 REDUCTION IN MASS—OPERATION. cord be distinct and unobscured by the presence of a sac, and a void is found where fulness is to be expected from the previous history of the case, a strong presumptive evidence on the contrary side is established, that the hernia, together witli its investing sac, is reduced. In proceeding with the exploration, the inguinal canal is next laid open. * * * I hold a close observance of the condition of parts within the canal to be a matter of very great importance. It will be recollected that the ordinary oblique inguinal hernia, during its passage through the canal, lies anterior to the spermatic cord. The hernial sac, when left empty after the reduction of its contents, occupies the same relative situation, and consequently overlays and obscures the cord after the canal is laid open. If the reverse of this is found in a case where a hernial descent is known to have previously existed, and the cord is ascertained to be clearly and distinctly brought into view, throughout the whole extent of the canal we may justly conclude, that the distinctness and clearness with which the cord is seen are caused by the removal and consequent reduction of the hernial sac from over it, which reduction can be effected in no other direction than into the abdomen. “ The condensed cellular capsule (usually found) immediately investing the sac * * * has but little connexion with the sac, and will remain even when the sore has been reduced. * * * If found and ascertained to be empty, the circumstance is of a very con- clusive character, and moreover will afford a direct clue to the situation of the hernia. A finger introduced through an opening made in such capsule, will be conducted towards or through the internal ring, beyond which it will be brought into contact with the hernial tumour itself, having in the introduction passed through the same channel by which the reduction was effected. “ The indications to be noticed at the internal ring are of a similar nature to those mentioned as being found at the external ring, and relate to the size of the aperture and the structures by which it is occupied. “ It will be observed that up to this period the proceedings of the exploration have been conducted without any danger of importance, and without any necessary disturb- ance to the peritoneum, yet information of the most conclusive kind may have been obtained, and such circumstances brought under notice as could fully justify the opera- tion, even if manifold, more hazardous than it really is. * * * “ The operation may be conducted to a demonstrative conclusion, by ascertaining the existence or non-existence of a hernial tumour, without adding materially to the trilling danger already incurred. This is accomplished simply by the introduction of the finger through the internal ring, and by passing it from side to side. Should a hernial tumour be present, it will at once be recognised, and found lying externally to the general peritoneal membrane, although within the parietes, and presenting a rounded surface. Should a tumour be not present, the circumstance may be ascertained by observing the smooth surface of the peritoneum, and the continued adhesions which it maintains with I the parietes immediately surrounding the ring. If doubt still exists, an enlargement of the internal ring, by division of the adjoining transversalis fascia, will afford a clearer exposition of parts, and a more decisive evidence for either an affirmative or a negative . conclusion; and thus an exploration may be conducted to its termination without the jj necessity of any peritoneal section. _ .• “ When the doubts have been resolved in the affirmative, by the discovery of a hernial tj tumour, the tumour may be brought into the inguinal canal, so as to occupy its former I situation before reduction, by enlarging the ring to the requisite extent for its passage. . jfl It may afterwards be opened, and its contents dealt vfith according to their condition, iK as under the ordinary circumstances of common operations. * * * “ The sac should, in all circumstances be opened, and its neck freely divided, so as • I not to leave any impediment to reduction of its contents into the general peritoneal !■ cavity. It should be recollected also, that the adhesion of the sac to the surroundingdB parts has been severed, and that consequently, the sac will be liable to be again reduced.!® during the reduction of the contents into the abdomen unless caution be used for its pre- -B vention. The danger of this occurrence may be always obviated by the introduction-® ■ of the finger through the neck of the sac, after the contents have been reduced, for thus.* the fact of their perfect liberation may be readily ascertained.” (p. 180-85.)] 1145. If the rupture be completely reduced, which can be determined 1 by introducing the finger into the abdominal ring, its re-descent is to be I prevented by continual suitable pressure, which is to be made by propet I bandages, 'Trusses, (Bruchcria, Lat. ; Bnichband, Germ.; Brayer, Fr.,,. I upon the hernial opening.