733 BY TEARING AWAY. most certain means of cheeking the bleeding; but if this be dangerous, , the operation must be suspended for a moment, and recourse had to the 3 means already advised for arresting bleeding. 2329. When the polyp has acquired great size, when it protrudes >t? through and stops up the nostril, the introduction of the forceps can then only be effected by seizing the front of the polyp with a pair of forceps i held in the left hand, and drawing it forwards, and thus enlarging the i space in the nostril. If, in such case, the commonly employed forceps ii.cannot be introduced, a pair must be used with a separable joint, with - their blades curved before the joint and meeting at their tip (a). ’ Both • blades must be separately introduced to the necessary height, then closed t and the polyp, torn away according to the rules already given. In Chakriere’s cleverly arranged polypdbrceps, the handles cross, so that when they rest upon eaeh other the blades are open, i! When the size of the polyp is such that it completely prevents the introduction of the *: forceps, it has been recommended to destroy with caustic, or to slice off the nart filline- : j, up the nostril. 1 6 , in preference to using the forceps, 2330. When the forceps cannot be passed up to the root of the polyp I on account of its size, the result of tearing it off is always very doubtful 9: as the polyp may be either torn away at its root, or only that part orasped *' Jy th.e forceps be pulled off. In the latter case there is generally great n bleeding, which is best stanched by the complete removal of the polyp. 2331 If the polyp be rooted far back in the nostril, and hang down ribehind the soft palate into the throat, it is thought best by some practi- tioners to draw it through the mouth ; for this purpose a pair of curved Worceps are introduced through the mouth, behind the soft palate to the ! l01yP> whicb 1S t0 be grasped as high as is fitting, and pulled away; and I |r‘ any portions remain they can usually be removed through the nostril jit is however more convenient to pass the forceps through the nose info ■ t he throat, and guide them by the finger introduced behind the soft palate I Pith which at the same time the polyp maybe pressed between the forceps’ fj-n general, tying the polyp is indicated in these cases. I earing away the polyp with a noose, ii p in every case to be avoided. ,BleedinS always follows tearing off a polyp; this is often very j Cann0t 36 knTn bef°re the °Peration> to what extent this • arL "’ r , necessary means for arresting it should be in readiness. The I n°I bl,ee.dln/ ]s, always less when the whole polyp and its root are lied Off, but if only part be torn away the bleeding is considerable nm ieTTfSt m°de of popping it is the complete removal of the rem- LL • Jhe ,mean? used for arresting bleeding are, sniffing up or inject- dSm andTeeriJlneSar 5? ThEDEN’s arquebusade, solution of md rolled tH lke,;.or a blt,of ]lnenor lint soaked in an astringent fluid |?e^edpaUr?’ Tth * Poa?ef ,With thG f°fCepS’ °r a — P»be^ to the no-er ° ti' 4 c n°std be very wide, pressure may be made with the •ont openin sTf be.,ineffe.c{ual }° th« bleeding, the hind and tobeC^^“"V,/,mU8t be pluFed with Bellocq’s tube, which irus, forward so I n D08® th\throat> an(1 the spring it contains ld to the knob at U Tay P1,0;!®01 [rom ,behlnd the palate into the mouth, iently thick nh.tV!% f d°"b G thiead must be attached, with a suffi- y thick plug at its extremity. To the pad a second thread must be (a) Richter, Anfangsgriinde, vol. i. pl. v. fig. 2—Schueoer, above cited.