V.—OF STONE IN THE URETHRA. ( Calculus Urethralis, Lat.; Steine in der Harnrdhre, Germ.; Calcul dans lc Canal de l' Uretre, Fr.) 2139. Stones which enter the canal of the urethra, as well as foreigi.. bodies which have been introduced from without, may be fixed at differen parts, may more or less hinder, or entirely prevent (1), the flow of urine and cause inflammation of the urethra and of the whole penis, ulceration and gangrene of the urethra, urinary infiltrations,-fistulas, and the like If the stone or foreign body be angular or pointed, the earlier will the* symptoms be produced (2). [(1) A stone may sometimes exist for some time in the urethra, and prevent the flowo urine by the stream forcing it tightly into the front of that canal, which is too narrow to permit its escape. An instance of this kind occurred to Travers in 1829, in a mat., of sixty years, under his care in St. Thomas’s Hospital; he had been in the habit o passing small stones from childhood, during which he had been cut by the elder Clint for stone in the bladder, and, when fifteen years old, a stone blocking up the urethra immediately in front of the scrotum, had been cut upon and removed, but left a fistulou: aperture. When he came under Travers’s care, he had a stone about four inch« down the urethra, and this, when desirous of making water, he pushed, back towardr the fistulous opening, so that there was then room for its passage. At night his urine- constantly dribbled away. This stone was removed by cutting through the fistula into the urethra, and lifting it out with a scoop. The aperture, however, did not perfectly heal (a). . A good example of retention and consequent mortification from the complete blocking up of the urethra by a stone, is Everard Home’s case in the College Collec-.- tion (b), of two stones from a man of sixty years old:—“ The larger calculus was situate® in the membranous part of the urethra, the smaller about three inches from the external orifice, the urethra being dilated into a cyst at each of these parts. The patient sup- posed himself to have laboured under strictures of the urethra for ten years! at last: there was complete retention of urine; the urine became effused behind the smaller*' calculus, and mortification of the skin of the penis and scrotum took place to consider-. able extent, and the man died.” (p. 121.) „ . , , , (2) A curious instance is recorded by Liston (c), of a person who, when a boy, Mail pushed a small brass curtain-ring over the penis till stopped by the scrotum, in 1 prevent the urine passing off during the night. The swelling that ensued preveutefl i removal; he kept the occurrence secret; the tumefaction gradually abated, and me. ring disappeared. But the hardened mass which remained increased in size ; andl«-> terly the functions of the parts, which had previously been very well performed, MgMj to be disturbed. The foreign body was cut upon and removed,” by Liston, “ when me man was approaching fifty years of age.” On making a section of it, the greater par of the ring was found forming the nucleus. The continuity of the erectile *1SSU*> * \ had been cut through gradually by the foreign body, was perfectly reestablish , (p. 520.)] ... J 2140. If the stone lodge in the neck of the bladder, it will, if ’ produce only the common symptoms of stone in the bladder, but if it 1 large, it will cause more or less complete retention, and if angular and not completely enclosed by the neck of the bladder, incontinence o urine. The patient usually suffers urgent pain, a sensation of weight and-' pressure in the perineeum and rectum, and a constant burning m ’ urethra, especially at the glans. A stone of any considerable size may distinguished by the finger in the rectum, but most certainly by a meta sound introduced into the urethra, which is either stopped by the ston > or passes near it into the bladder. 2141. If it be not possible, after the previous enlargement urethra with large bougies passed down to the stone, to grasp of the it with . (a) Clark’s Case Book. (ft) Taylor’s Catalogue. (c) Practical Surgery.