DIAGNOSIS AND PROGNOSIS OF SCIRRHOUS TUMOURS. 761 2398. The symptoms which cancer presents in its origin and course are very different, and seem to depend on the difference of constitution, of the mischief producing it, and of the tissue attacked by it, as has been already noticed in the special consideration of the subject, although a definite causal relation in this respect cannot always be determined. Cancer is often excessively destructive, and eating, surrounded with hard edges, and sometimes accompanied with fungous growths. The former kind seems to be peculiar rather to old persons, to sanguineous and choleric temperaments; whilst the latter occurs in young persons and phlegmatic constitutions. Sometimes the course of the cancer is extremely quick, a large strip of the skin is suddenly destroyed, and the greater part of the cancerous swelling bursts through the turning out of the edges of the skin. In other cases the course of the cancer is tedious, the ulceration seems determined after the bursting of the swelling; the edges of the skin turn inwards, the discharge of ichor is slight, and the disease may have long existed before it spreads. The mischievous influence of cancer upon the constitution also varies according to its seat in different organs. The general symptoms of cancerous dyscrasy often set in early, before softening and ulceration; often it appears when there has been already farspreadin* destruction of the scirrhous part. Alibert (a) has laid down six different kinds of cancer; first, Cancer funqoides, common cancer; second,, Cancer terebrans, cancer of the skin ; third, Cancer eburneus, iard like ivory ; fourth, Cancer globosus, presenting a roundish swelling, usually painless, err!.!'0 61 bIack,sh colour and generally, not confined to one spot, but affecting large in »iT <!" t lC lcad’ ^eet> an(l so 'on 5 fifth, Cancer anthracinus, arising with a black spot in the skin, accompanied with a painful itching, and, as it enlarges, a mulberry-like knnKeSCe£C(LnSeSj0Ut of bt ’ s*xtb’ Cancer melaeneus, tuberosus, taking its origin from the 'tissue hlCh are developed more or less numerously, and of different size in the cellular •u?9i9mThe dia9nosis of scirrhous tumours is frequently accompanied with difficulty. When the skin covering the swelling is puckered, has a oark-Ieaden colour, a knotty and irregular surface; when sometimes there is lancinating pain in the tumour, and it is firmly attached to the neigh- ounng parts, there can indeed be no doubt of the scirrhous nature of the welling. But the hardness and condition of the surface of scirrhus often ■ anes, and may be equally present in swellings of other kind. In many stances scirrhus is movable, not connected with the underlying parts Painless, and the skin often not at all altered. The disposition of scirrhus run into cancer, usually given as a mark of distinction from benio-nant sa™?i!10n’ Cann0t be dec5ded beforehand ; this transition is not even neces- whTch S ,’ a”‘ ”?t U”,5raTJ<;rltIyJiepe,n,ls 0,1 aed,lcmal influences, to acquire &*"*“» d»« "ot, in general, easily acE ! T swe l,ngs ll° ! “<1 tire latter do not readily neiahlL, • . h.eavm,ess' "or they the disposition to draw the ■ke weSift "lt0 ltT Sa“'C metamorphosis. Examination of tiea ate the ™ rem°Val g',T “ d'5tU,ct emanation of its nature, as T, i, “T” of.a !ke removal, which, indeed, is no such Ll T, ,aT “ ° *0 ITT Th? emreerous sore itself has be possible vvitl c arac eristic mark that a mistake may not sometimes Centimes will \ '• ne^ecto( syphilitic or scrofulous ulcers, as these, 18 cancerous U Tein.^ actua-by cancerous, present the same symptoms res. In these cases, the improvement or injury effected by (a) Nosologic Naturello.