URINARY STONE, 522 solution, nor as a precipitate in the urine ; yet it is probable that it occu in the precipitates from uric acid (a). Besides the stone which Marcet mentioned, and that which Liebig and Woehl i examined, Laugier (/>) has also examined a xanthic oxide stone. Berzelius (c) believes that he has sometimes met with xanthic oxide, or acid gravel. Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia. 1999. As the acid property of urine depends on the acid phosphate. ammonia, which salt contains phosphate of lime in solution, it necessaril | follows that every change of the urine, in which alkalescence becoim i prevalent, whereby the acid which holds those earths in solution is new tralized, causes the precipitation of those earths. This applies also to tt s neutral phosphate of lime, if further observations should prove the poss' bility of its forming the nucleus of stone; as also to the combination c phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and of phosphate of lime, whicr Marcet has described by the name of fusible calculus. Jones (d) divides the phosphate diathesis into true and false; in the former, tl urine, in consequence of the general state of the constitution, becomes alkaline, and th! phosphates are precipitated; in the latter, the alkalescence depends on retention of th urine, or on a diseased secretion of it, which causes a speedy change of the urea, as i- irritation of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Connecting Material. 2000. The connectmg material, animal mucus, exists in gravel, bu specially in all stones, in various quantity, and appears to be subject t< different changes in the several kinds of stones. Upon the presence o this material, many ground the distinction between the formation of stone and the secretion of gravel and sand. Others hold that such connecting material is not. required for the production of stone, inasmuch as the attraction of the individual constituents suffice for its formation. If we reflect that, the inner surface of the urinary organs is naturally overspread with mucus; that in persons troubled with gravel, there is often as great irritation of the urinary passages, as in stone patients, whereby an increased secretion of mucus is caused ; further, that in actual blennorrhocal affections of the mucous membrane of the urinary passages, with copious secretion of viscid mucus, the latter is often mixed with much sand, and yet no stone forms : it follows that the difference between gravel and stone cannot he derived from this connecting material alone. The difference appears for the most part to rest in this; that in the production of gravel and sand, the precipitation of the substances forming them follows quickly, and in large quantity from any great excess of living; whilst in the formation of stone, it is slow but more continuous (e). 2001. According to what has been hitherto said about the production of gravel and urinary stone, it may be attributed to two principal causes, to wit, an increased acidity of the urine from the acid naturally exist- ing in it being secreted in greater quantity, or from a new acid being developed; and, an increased alkalescence. The remote causes may be luxurious living, excess, the use of strong wine, want of exercise, menta exertion, especially after eating, the use of food difficult of digestion, a> Wii.i.is, U., p. 108; and on the contrary (c) Lehrbiich der Cheraie, vol. ix. p.-191- lnvra „ | p■, (rl) Above cited, p. 74. (6) jotirn. de Chimie Med., vol. v. p. 315. 1829. (e) Henrt ; above cited, p. 134.