168 CURVATURE OF TIIE SPINE. 1362. These gymnastics have the especial object of relieving the vertebra from each other’s weight for several hours daily ; of supporting the weight of the body, without condemning it immediately to rest and its ill conse- quences ; of exciting the activity of the muscles to sufficient continuance and power, so that it may be advantageous to the nourishment of these organs, and to the improvement of the whole constitution; to employ all the muscles, without exception, in increased exertion, and by means of motion, extension, and pressure, employed in all directions, to reach the affected parts of the spine. These exercises are to be used daily for two or three hours, and then, according to the state of the deformity, the necessary extension in the stretching-bed, or some special apparatus is to be employed. Delpech considers swimming as very proper, but other- wise he does not use bathing, if no special reason call for its use ; neither * does he employ friction and the like, because by the exercises the muscles ■ i are acted on far more properly and more powerfully than by those means. . t These exercises, which are undertaken gradually, and extended to all the muscles, , f are, movements upon the swing, exercises and games on the spiral ladder, exercises on i the knotted rope, games on the loose rope and climbing pole, games on the obliquely- • 1 stretched rope, on the straight and obliquely-stretched ladder, games on the tight rope | , and flying bridge, the use of a windlas, games with the horizontal pole, and so on. r The atlas accompanying Delpecii’s work gives a sufficient representation of these i ; different exercises. Where no special institution is at hand, apparatus for these exercises must be intro- - f duced into every room, yard, or garden. I have for several years (in my private t j practice) employed such appropriate gymnastic exercises, in connexion with other r | remedies in the treatment of curvatures, with the desired results. 1363. If the cause of the curvature be in an unequal contraction of the < ; muscles, in which ordinarily the left side sinks down, the right shoulder- blade projects, and the right shoulder is raised, it must be treated according ; to the general rules laid down. It is usually attempted by rubbing in suppling ointments, or oily remedies to relax the contracted muscles of the sunken side, and by rubbing opodeldoc, .spiritus serpylli c. liq. ammon. i caust., tinct. canthar., with some volatile additions, to excite the muscles of the protruding side to action. For these cases the employment of I electricity, repeated blisters and the douche upon the side of the extended muscles, have been also recommended. In the rubbings, which are to be performed night and morning, the patient should be stretched on his belly, and they should be continued from half to a whole hour, and attempts are, in the mean time, to be made to press the spine into its natural i j direction. These rubbings operate certainly less through the substances - rubbed in, than from the pressure, kneading, and stretching of the con- tracted muscles. If the nervous activity be in these cases diminished, o the rubbing should be more active ; spirituous remedies, and even the application of stronger irritating remedies are indicated. In incipient scoliosis, if care be taken that the patient carry himself properly, that the two halves of the body be equally exerted, that all faulty posture in writing and the like be diminished, that he often hang by his hands, and keep the horizontal posture in bed, upon a hard mattrass, a perfect* cure may be effected. Here also well-fitting stays, with whalebone or elastic springs, will be of much use, as tiiey properly support the body (*)•* '< In more considerable curvature, regulated gymnastic exercises, the u-«e» of a properly constructed portable apparatus, or better, the employ®*®"! of a stretching apparatus, is most suitable. In these cases, the scoUos**