TREATMENT OF POLYS OF THE WOMB 752 This mode of treatment is very worthy of recommendation on account of its ease am certainty. The objection that the ends of the ligature, not being contained in a tub' may be softened and loosened by the continual moisture, is, according to my experieno groundless. If it be desirable to measure each time the degree of tightening, that ma be easily done by means of a stop-wheel placed at the end of the loop-tier 2381. Nissen’s polyp-tier is used in the following manner:—Th. instrument well oiled, and having a thread unlooped attached to it, i passed with the forefinger of the left hand up to the root of the polyp The handle by which the two tubes are connected is now removed, am one tube being held steadily, the other, with its concavity towards th polyp, is carried round it to its fellow, and the two are then connected b; slipping on and pushing forwards the rings, and attaching the haudlc- The ligature is now drawn closely together and fastened ; or it is tightenet with the screw as recommended by Joerg. 2382. In using Ribke’s instrument, the two loop-drawers are intro duced, like the single blades of delivery-forceps, up to the root of th polyp, the stem which holds the two cylinders together is draw’ll out, am then each of the latter is carried round in a half circle till they mee again, and are then fastened together with the stem. The assistant, wh>' has hitherto held the stop-wheel, now presses the knobs to the upper em of the connected cylinders, after which the stilettes in the latter are draw), so far out at the low’er opening that the loop is set free, and the cylinder can be withdrawn. The root of the polyp is now tied and proper!; fastened by the stop-wheel, which is laid on a pad upon the mons J eueru and confined there by a broad cloth around the loins. 2383. The symptoms which may occur after the tie has been made are violent inflammation and fever, pain, spasm, bleedings, and other symptom from pressure of the swelling polyp. In the first case suitable antiphlogistic treatment must be employed ; in spasm, narcotic remedies used, and if » symptoms be not diminished by these, the loop must be slackened a little, the bleeding must be stopped by more tightly tying the ligature, am with astringent injections. On account of the increasing bulk ot the poiy it is generally necessary for the first few days to empty the bladder win the catheter, and the rectum by clysters. . , j 2384. The patient must after the operation keep perfectly quiet in oeu and have a proper diet. Every two days the ligature must be 1 and to prevent the effect of the stinking ichor, repeated mjec l decoctions of aromatic herbs must be employed. When the pc jl dropped off, which depends on the thickness and toughness o 1 ^ and occurs at different periods, either by the continued tightening oi ligature, or on some movement of the patient, the injections nius ^ tinued for some time. Strengthening remedies must also be gi' support the patient’s diminished pow’ers. _ ,-^nuenc When the polyp, after having separated, is still retained, m conf4 of its size, it must be withdrawn with forceps, for which purpose a ^ forceps and much force are often requisite; as happened to ™ case. If bleeding occur on the dropping off the polyp, astrmgen J irri must be used, which are not, however, to be very irritating, or g^ tation of the womb will ensue. If, notwithstanding the repeated ^ ^ of the ligature, the polyp will not separate, which, ^ience o rarely the case, it is advisable, to save the patient the mcon the continued stench, to cut it off below the ligature. {&}