DIVISION OF. 527 of which is now in the College Museum, weighed, when entire, 740 grains. Another specimen, in the Museum of University College, (London,) weighed 850 grains. (4) Only three xanthic oxide stones have ever been seen :—Marcet’h, which weighed m only eight grains; Langenbeck’s, about the size of a small hen’s egg, first examined I; by Stkomeyeu, and afterwards by Liebig and Wohler ; and that described by Lau- GIEK.-T. T.] 2006. The division of stones according to their chemical composition 1 has been arranged in various ways by Fourcroy, Brande, Thomson, , Wollaston, Marcet, Yelloly, and Taylor, and the grounds upon i’ which this division has been founded are either the simple or compound nature of the stone, or the prevalence of one or other substance. It seems most convenient to divide urinary stones according to the princi- ples laid down by von Walther, who gives the acids entering into their composition as their distinguishing characteristics. 2007. According to these principles may be distinguished :— First, Urinary incrustations offoreign bodies. These consist of phos- phates. often also with some uric acid. Second, Urinary concretions without foreign bodies. a. Stones of pure uric acid or urate of ammonia. These are soluble in the fixed alkalies, with or without giving off ammonia. b. Stones which contain oxalate of lime. This is found in the nucleus either pure or commonly combined with urate of ammonia, most com- monly in the interspaces between the nucleus and the crust, which latter usually consists of phosphates. Sometimes they contain a little silica in v state which is still questionable. They are insoluble in alkalies, and soluble with difficulty in dilute acids. c. Stones consisting of cystic oxide, sometimes covered with a crust of ahosphate of lime. A piece of cystic oxide placed upon ignited charcoal b pves out a garlicky or phosphoric smell; on a platina plate, heated to •redness, its sulphur blackens the plate to the extent of some lines. d. Stones of xanthic oxide, soluble in hydrochloric acid, althouo-h witli nore difficulty than uric acid, without the least development of gas, form ifter evaporation, a lemon-coloured residuum, which dissolves in water vith a pale yellow colour. e. Stones consisting of phosphoric acid in combination, so as to produce meutral salts, either of phosphate of lime or phosphate of ammonia and M' simply or combined, with phosphate of lime; or they have a nucleus of uric acid or urate of ammonia, and the crust consists of phos- 1 lllates-,' or of these and alternating layers of uric acid. f. Stones containing carbonate of lime. These have a nucleus of urate l 'L^cTwirLds! Carb0'iate °f Hme iS “ixed withphosphates. They f 2?°8'- The frequency of the different hinds of stones varies according ’ tel* ZCUmStanCGS °f Clima?’ mode of life> and so on. The uric acid nes, however, occur most frequently, so that, according to Prout I ^°f t,’e. ""Uole number. To this may be added, that Sahara dT» TT.V""" “le nucleus aroulld wMch other Rethinks Oy f; so tliat lts frequency may perhaps be estimated at ff he phosphates.0 dte °* t0 Uri° acid’ and then follo'v composing stones be reviewed, they may be divided into F. "f^„x^roni,i 3- of iime 14- ***• °n]m-