399 LARYNGOTOMY. H*Teneration of the structures about the throat; in diseased changes of the A iglottis ; in great swelling of the tongue, if the danger cannot be relieved i bleeding, scarification, and the like; in fracture of the thyroid carti- 1 je, if the dislocated pieces cannot be otherwise brought into place; in B lamination of the epiglottis (Angina larynged) ; when foreign bodies t j in the oesophagus, and cause suffocation ; in compression of the wind- je by tumours; in gun-shot wounds of the throat, which, on account of 2 great swelling, are attended with danger and suffocation; in drunken suffocated persons ; in croup, if the membrane be loose and cannot be jghed up. (According to Desault (a), in the greater number of these cases in which it is only ftessary to assist the entrance of the air, the introduction of an elastic tube through i nostril renders the operation superfluous. No other person, however, but Desault ds this notion. Samuel Cooper (b) objects to it in drunkards and suffocated persons, M l considers opening the windpipe to inflate the lungs, most efficient. However, the iefit of cutting into the windpipe, undertaken in this spirit, is not supported by precise p soning. >r n Angina laryngea, which is characterized by difficult breathing, with pressing suffo- >v ion, very hoarse and only whispering voice, and frequently accompanied with pain in St asophagus and difficulty in swallowing, without apparent swelling and redness of the h oat, the operation must not be long delayed, if relief be not soon afforded by general a l local blood-letting, blisterings, and the like (c). In Angina membranacea, >) yngotomy and tracheotomy are generally useless, because the mass blocking up the , -tube, is not merely in the larynx, but extends through the whole windpipe and even ) the bronchi (d). In more modern times, however, many cases have been published fj vhich this operation has been successful. * VEVEKMANN (e) has collected all the cases of laryngitis and trachceitis, in which f ’heotomy has been performed; and the result is that out of one hundred and forty ■■ twenty-eight have.been cured, and one hundred and twelve died. ° Ieetonneau ( f) considers that tracheotomy can only terminate favourably, if the I “ng be made moderately large between the thyroid gland and the breast-bone, and v free entrance and escape of the air maintained by a sufficiently large and wide canula. ® the same time he introduces calomel dry, or moistened with water, through the k ind into the windpipe. In one case he succeeded. * -"ROTSseau (g) also recommends the introduction of a thick catheter, and scraping out 0 windpipe with a probang, and dropping in a watery solution of nitrate of silver four ins to a dram of water. Gerdy (A) also advises the introduction of a weak solution ! lunar caustic. : Kirby (i) is decidedly opposed to bronchotomy for croup ; he says “ I have per- iled the operation myself on the child, and have seen it frequently done by others in no one case has the life of the patient been saved.” (p. 63.)] J757. The proceedings vary in laryngotomy and tracheotomy, in iierence to the special object desired, according as the entrance of j air is to be assisted, or a foreign body removed. 1758. In laryngotomy, after placing the patient’s head in such a 'ition as that his uneasiness shall be least, and the front of the neck J accessible, the skin is to be moderately stretched on both sides £ ;e fi"gers of th.e Ieft, hand> and the larynx at the same time fixed ; * -ut is then made lengthways, about an inch in length, the middle ) Above cited. ) Bictionarv of Practical Surgery, p. 1202 Farh* ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iii. p. 84. MAs'Tm’f-’ Ibld- ">1. iv. P- 29.—Wilson, u *> vo1- v. p. 150.—Arnold ; Ibid., • p.dl—Hai.i., Marshali,; Ibid., vol. x. * «V^RTI,l;Abid-’ vo1' xi'P- H4.-Wk.de- 1 n»i:volrx°Np l07.>:FK Und V°N WALT"f;,1’s ^Sacbsr, vol. ii. p. 277 j the best writer on ) (v.’I'r’ v,e‘l- Centralzeitung, 1830, July.— ition ifr ’ V',’ °n thc Causes of the Fatal Tcr- *UOn of cerU>n cases of lironchotomy; in Edinb.Med.andSnrg. Journal, vol. xxix. p. 75, 184‘>J^n 0FebHEL 5 BulIetin de Therapeutie, f f) 1 Ics Inflammations speciales du Tissu mu- queux eten particulier de la Diptherite,ou inflam- mation pelhculaire, connue sur le nom de Croup, d Angine maligne,d’Anginegangreneuse, p. 21',— dflo. Pans, 1826. 8vo. ,, Ci|) Journal des Connaissances Med.-Chirurg 18,14. June. Archives generates de Medecine, vol. v. p. ’' /, 1834.—Stiliuno ; in Berlin Med. Central- zeitung, 1835, May 9. (i) Observations, cited at the head of article.