STONE IN TIIE BLADDER; 566 Colombat’s figure-of-eight loop; Jacobson’s miniature instrument u Cooper’s curved forceps; Amussat and Sagalas’s small percuteunia Civiale’s hook ; Leroy’s three-limbed forceps, with or without a borer i Amussat’s four-limbed forceps; Leroy’s jointed curette, with Dubo < wisicy’s modification, which has a borer added; Leroy’s urethral forcept o with an articulated curette, and a percuteur with a curette; and Amussat’ . s and Sanson’s catheter furnished with a very large side opening. 2054. From the number of these instruments may readily be comprt ?! hended the difficulty accompanying the withdrawal of the fragments ( c stone from the urethra. Their use always requires the greatest circum spection and care. The straight or curved cannular forceps of Hunter Leroy, and others, are in general the most fitting, as are also Cooper'. forceps, when the fragments are deeper seated in the membranous part c the urethra. Leroy’s jointed curette, indeed commonly grasps the stone> but only moves, without drawing it out, if it be not also fixed or crushe by the borer. According to Pigne", Sanson has in several instance where he had in vain used the most suitable instruments, effected the with drawal of stone by means of an elastic catheter, with one or two larg side openings, with the greatest ease and without pain. The position of thr; fragment of the stone is first determined with a metallic catheter, which i then withdrawn, and an elastic catheter with its metal stem passed down t the fragment, shows its place a second time, by rubbing against it; th metal stem must then be drawn back about two inches, and by twisting th: catheter, its opening must be endeavoured to be applied to the stone which almost always at once gets into it, and is withdrawn with th: catheter. If the fragment be quite close to the orifice of the urethra, i may, after slightly enlarging the orifice with a little cut downwards, (par 2042,) be pulled out with a pair of common forceps. 2055. If a fragment of stone stick so fast in the urethra, that it car neither be thrust back into the bladder, nor pulled out, and if it be situatec at an accessible part of the urethra, the coverings must be cut through: and the fragment removed through the wound. An elastic catheter musi; then be introduced into the bladder, and the wound perfectly united. 2056. When after the escape of all the fragments of stone, no further symptoms appear, a close and careful examination of the bladder must made, according to the rules already laid down, to be perfectly satisfied t there is no remnant of the stone,which may cause its reproduction. Prudence also requires that the examination should be repeated from time to time, e- fore it can be ascertained that the patient is quite freed from the stone. 2057. Crushing the stone is effected in women in the same way, anc according to the same rules as in men. The shortness, greater width, anc extensibility of the female urethra render the introduction and manage-, ment of the instrument, as well as the withdrawal of large fragments a stone, easier. It must, however, be remembered that on account oft very condition of the urethra, it is more difficult to retain the propet quantity of the injected fluid, and that the stone mostly lies on the sides | the bladder, on which account it may be more easily seized with curv than with straight forceps. The finger, however, introduced into vagina can alter the position of the stone, and bring it to the instrumen Besides the works already quoted, the following may be referred to:— I Civiale, Nouvelles Considerationssur la Retention d’Urine, suiviesd’un Traite saw ^ Calculs urinaires, sur la manure d’en conuaitre la nature dans l’inte'rieur de la v .