491 FOR OVARIAN DISEASE. Of the seventy-four cases of the operation for the removal of ovarian tumours which l9 uui j,een published up to October, 1844, and have been collected by Jf.ai frf.son (a), i appears, according to his analysis, that “ in thirty-seven cases the tumour was • euioved, and the patients recovered. In twenty-four cases the operation was followed iy the death of the patient; of these twenty-four fatal cases, the tumour was removed u fourteen, could not be removed on account of adhesions in six, and was found to be ther than ovarian tumour in four cases. Thus again in seventy four cases in which the i peration for extraction of ovarian tumour has been undertaken, it has been completed a fifty-one instances, in fourteen, out of which fifty-one, it has been followed by death, nd in thirty-seven, by the successful removal of the tumour and the recovery of the ; atient; whilst out of the seventy four eases selected, it was found impossible to carry ut the intentions of the operator in twenty-three; or in other words the diagnosis was y ot sufficiently accurate to enable the Surgeon to foresee the impracticability of carrying i :■ ut his intentions. Of these twenty-three cases, thirteen recovered with life to remain y a statu quo; and ten died. The cause of failure was impossibility of removing the ji :amour on account of adhesions in fourteen cases. No tumour was found in three cases ; i nd the tumour proved to be other than ovarian in six instances, (p. 648.) Lee states to me “ the actual number of cases in which the peritonseal cavity has been 0 'erfonned is one hundred and eight {commencing with L’Aumoniee’s case.) Of these (- tventy-nine were operated upon by the large incision, twenty-three by the short, and in :9=ax cases the length of the incision is unknown. The mortality in these patients is as one ‘t eath to nearly three recoveries—namely, sixty-nine recovered and thirty-nine died. |j 'he operation was not completed in twenty-four out of the one hundred and eight cases, > ither on account of adhesions or no tumour being found. Of the eighty-jour cases | rhere the operation was performed with a fair chance of benefit, fifty-three recovered nd thirty-one died, making as 1 death to 2§f recoveries. Of the seventy-nine patients Operated on by the long incision forty five recovered and thirty four died, making the t; lortality as 1 death to 2JJ recoveries. Of the twenty-three operated on by the small 11 icision nineteen recovered and four died, or 1 death to 5| recoveries. From these 9 : wts we learn that this operation terminates frequently fatally ; that a correct diagnosis b jivery difficult, and in many instances defective; and that the short incision has been •vised more successfully than the large.” Much difference of opinion still exists as to the propriety of subjecting a female to - ich imminent danger, as, without doubt, she must incur, in undergoing the operation • f the removal of a diseased ovary. In addition to which, much has been said in refer- f >ace to the malignant character of the disease, which if it were really so, would justly Jr Jrbid it being meddled with. Southam says, that “ having carefully examined several *cimens of dropsical ovaria, he is inclined to believe that they never present a truly m-rhous character ; on the contrary, that they generally consist of simple cysts, or par- ■ >ke of what is called cystic sarcoma (b), for the development of which, the peculiar ructure of the ovary appears highly favourable.” (p. 238.) The proneness of both far,es to be diseased has also been brought as an objection to the operatiou. But foctham says:—“ I have carefully examined the records of twenty-nine cases of true f mpsical ovaria, and found that there were but two in which the opposite ovary pre- 1 xd a decidedly abnormal character. Where, however, the disease was malignant, i ■ olh were affected m three cases out of four.” (p. 240.) held by some’ that tbe Patient bas a chance of recovery, without the risk of m^atlon’ by the cyst bursting of itself, and the discharged fluid being absorbed I ’ £eneral cavlty of the peritonaeum. Such bursting of the dropsical ovary does w then occur, but favourable issue is very rare. One case of this kind, in which, •onr! a ra hu,rstlnPs’ and the woman recovered, is related by Bonfils (c). Another ft :opSy for twfnt y t0 CAri($' «van 0ld rman 0f ei6hty-five, who had had ovarian ' tended witT, lva,,ld a.ha, f‘ £he W8S the" attacked with severe pain in the swelling, , vere StS lassi.t»de> shivering, and slight fever; on the following day, she had I ud nuke mdi ^ y’ wlth nausea, vomiting, great restlessness, colic, quick small and pmse, and anxious countenance: ' ■ ‘ rr" ' - - - — red; instead of projectin had lost in prominence. le etelValterpd. C0,untenance as.in peritonitis. The shape of the belly was com- $ % whatit hml wfad °f P.r°Jectlng’ ^as flattened in the centre, but had gained in ll«l H n<l(l lost in nrnmin<irmo Tto flnnL,ntL,« aj i .1 , 1 1 'en so distinct r" T7~~T" * bc fluctuation from one side to the other had never I .d in less than J fit • 1 dayS after fh‘“ ,beSan to void large quantities of urine, ■ eaccumulation br, the existence of fluid in the belly was no longer apparent, umulation, however, came on, and the belly became larger than before ; but at the S-W) Hodokin • in Mp.i „(")Lond°n Med. Oazette.vol. XXXV. 1844. 1821.). ’ ' • Chir. I rans , vol. xv. (d) Gazotto Medicate, vol. xiii. p. 158. 1845, > i(0 Gazette Mtdicale, vol. xi. p. 74G. 1813. and Rankin's Half-yearly Abstract of the Medical Sciences, vol.ii. p. 151. 184(i.