URINARY STONE, 520 diathesis follows that of the uric acid, and are allied to each other. He does not, however, suppose that the oxalic acid is in any way pro- duced in the urine by the action of the hydrochloric acid upon the urine ■ but he considers it more probable, that the oxalic acid has been already secreted as such from the diseased parts of the kidneys; this oxalic acid then comes in contact with the uric acid which is secreted by the healthy part of the kidneys, and throws down from it the lime, in a state of oxalate": perhaps at first in a plastic form, as the somewhat crystallized state oi such stones would make us suppose. Walther contradicts this state- ment (a), as the origin of oxalic acid is more easily deduced from the con- version of the benzoic acid, (which is so similar to it,) free carbonic acid, or lactic acid, contained in the urine, than from the uric acid ; for, in oxalic acid, as well as in other vegetable acids, hydrogen and carbon are the oxidizable bases, but the urea is a very azotized production of animal life. Oxalic acid is formed in the urine, not only when the hydrogen is wanting, in order to saturate all the relative excess of oxygen, and to combine with it as water, but also the nitrogen, as the acid which would be otherwise formed would be uric, which is distinguished from the oxalic acid by the quantity of azote. A relative want of hydrogen seems in all cases to be one of the conditions of the formation of stones, whether concretions of uric acid or of oxalate of lime. Liebig, Willis, and Jones have held the conversion of uric into oxalic acid, as the conse- quence of a diminished oxygenation. 1993. Besides the production of oxalic acid by the conversion of the uric acid, its origin from the food must also be admitted. In support of this opinion, it must be observed that various vegetables which serve for food, contain a large quantity of oxalic acid ; that Magendie has noticed the production of a stone of oxalate of lime, after long-continued use of sorrel; that in England, where animal food is the most common diet, stones of oxalate of lime are, in comparison with those of uric acid, more rare, whilst, on the other hand, in those countries where chiefly vegetables are eaten, the oxalic stones are much more frequent, as Rapp has noticed in Wiirtemberg, Walther in Bavaria, and I myself in our own neigh- bourhood. Woehler has, by his experiments, put beyond all doubt the transition of oxalic acid into the urine. 1994. That under the above-mentioned circumstances, which cause the presence of oxalic acid in the urine, the uric acid may also at the same time be diminished, depends on the greater quantity of vegetable food, but is not to be considered a condition for the production of oxalic acid. The ordinary combination of oxalate of lime with uric acid, or urate of am- monia, contradicts this. Wetzlar’s (5) assertion, that mulberry stone is most frequent in childhood, when but little uric acid is contained in the urine, has been disproved by the observations of von Walther, Rapi’, and others (c). 1995. If oxalic acid occur in the urine, on account of its greater affi- nity for lime, it takes the latter from the phosphoric acid. In proportion as the phosphate of ammonia existing in the urine is in a more or less acm state, the phosphoric acid may unite partly with this, and partly with the ammonia combined with the uric acid ; and from these different circum- stances we may explain how the oxalate of lime can be precipitated either Heidrfb. (a) Above cited, p. 219. ( b) Above cited, p. 55. (<?) ('hei.ius, UeberScrotalsteine; in l Med. Aniialen, vol. i. pt. 1.