OF FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. 685 (injury of the skull, accompanied with loss of substance. Sciinieber (a) has ■«deed mentioned a congenital fungus of the dura mater ; I have, however, if. ith Seerig (5), doubts of the correctness of the diagnosis in this case. 2230. The views already stated in reference to the origin and course of % utigus of the dura mater, which have been specially laid down by Louis, KFenzel, and others, and which I have found confirmed by my own & bservation on the living and by examination of the dead, are opposed to 4 lose advanced by Sandifort, Siebold, and Waether. According to i«ie latter writers, fungus of the dura mater is a simultaneous degene- > ition of the dura mater, of the skull-bones, and of the external perios- d. um, but especially of the blood vessels which pass from the latter to the ;£ iploe, and from it to the dura mater ; a luxuriant vegetation of the net- se ke tissue between the two tables of the skull bones, with which the bone- * irth is sucked up and a carnation of the hone at the same time arises. (< his opinion, which had already been advanced by Louis in some cases, k/'enzel (c) admits only so far as he supposes that the original seat of §ie disease is restricted merely to that part of the bone on which the ■j-seased cause so operates, that the natural functions are in some way fc sturbed and interrupted ; and this may be sometimes the outer, some- O lies the inner table of the bone, sometimes both together, and some- « nes the fungous tissue which lies between them. 1:2231. Directly opposed to the symptoms on which Wenzel founded ifc s diagnosis of this disease, are those which Walther has advanced * pported by his own views and careful observation. He did not, indeed’ | :>tice any motion of the swelling ; the patient experienced only a certain ian"o and rushing, best comparable with that which sometimes is per- t ived in the external ear-passages in violent beating of the carotid artery | a its branches. A certain obscure movement was felt in the swelling but " tt;ev?r only when the hand, or still better the tips of the fingers are * plied and pressed strongly upon it for a long while; the movements are Sethis way, after some time, distinctly felt. In one case an alternate f aad sinking of the tumour was observed, similar to that concussion 7 "ch the beating of the arteries produces in all parts of the body. Its l>?ree corresponds with the number and extension of the arteries in the jening; the movements are similar to the beats of the pulse and JrMpond with them. Walther could not feel any bony edge around teC CiKmftrenCe °f TelllnS> and considered this proved, because the I S±1U 0nwYaS ,nnI^ and throughout its whole extent filled with I 5llln?- When the fungus attains considerable size, no symptoms Sfr'l Tibrai?re ?bserved;. b,,t in very »pid growTlf they E ouo-h theJ1 • f,he,external Part of the tumour can be returned ] itin V ,.1, the b°ne never’ or but vei7 rai,ely, and only whilst it - “L ,T ani1 recent’ ‘"Jhich W- Of compression of the “ st “ once ensue- Walther found, in general, that the swellin itfT.j coninlp+oLr c • , r ’ geneiai, mat tne swelling aiching orn/J'wflTlZTrant,that was in"° way sensible of [ ll-bo°nes wL T ^ fPreSSUTh " Connexion of tbe fungus with the Imble distance oC periosteum began to thicken at a con- ‘■■Wroti Z m the T ‘'"Si the increased * " connectXYthThe^L *“”“d redd<i',wl; W°i.T«r.AE" Und V°N WALTHEH’8 Journal, (b) Above cited, p. 2-J. (r) Above cited, p. ‘Jj.