OPERATION FOR FUNGUS OF TIIE DURA MATER. 688 rheumatic affections, scrofula, and other diseases which are connected w an altered condition of the juices. To the external causes belong bio . upon the head, bruises, concussion of the skull without external injury 1 fracture of the bone. The distinction of the causes is frequently attem 1 i frequently attem with great difficulty, as the external injury lias often so long preceded origin of the complaint, that its causal relation to it is doubtful. Wo the disease arises without external violence, the presence of internal < ease is not always clear; but the progress of the complaint, and . existence of similar degeneration in other parts, points to a peculiar a thesis, often characterized by no other symptoms than the tumour: and this respect, indeed, it must be distinguished as the diathesis fungo I do not imagine, that without this internal condition, external causes <- of themselves produce such fungous degenerations. As the result of th causes, an inflammatory condition is always to be considered as the pecul commencement of the disease, by which plastic exudation, irregiL vascular development, and the like, are produced. According as th processes occur, at the same time, on the surface of the dura mat in the bone itself, under the pericranium and upon the dura mater, i proper fungus durce matris and fungus cranii are produced. , _ 2239. Fungus of the dura mater, and of the skull-bones, is a very i' a portant disease, which left to itself causes death, and the cure of which, even its mitigation, is usually impossible. In those cases where theco « plaint is, from the symptoms mentioned, {par. 2225,) supposed toJtt | arisen from external injury, its development may perhaps be arrested <j the early and continual use of cold applications, by taking away blo^l active purging, low diet, and the like. But if the swelling have alreanl become apparent externally, there is no remedy but its removal, by n ligature or the knife after previously laying bare, and enlarging the in the bone ; cutting into the tumour, the constant application of pressU'l and the use of escharoties, can only promote an unfavourable result, j Walther supposes that the operation is contraindicated in fungus of the ' «| mater, and that only the peculiar kind and special condition of the case, " and there form an exception. He is confirmed in this opinion by the view he the origin of the fungus, and by an operation he performed, in which, after » | cut, so severe bleeding ensued, that he was obliged to abstain from ®n,s B . , ration. In reference to fungus cranii, I must, from my own observation, ... ^ opinion. But the operation for true fungus of the dura mater must be_ [( permissible, if the disease have not advanced too far: if there be on ) sal*i*3 no degeneration of the other parts. The prognosis, however, m this opera * ^ ^ extremely doubtful; independent of its danger, it has scarcely ever a Peu . t as, at least according to my experience, the fungus of the durama> 0f ,f characterized as medullary fungus, (Fungus medullans,) which, o general diathesis, is always incurable. _ ^ |“ 2240. In performing this operation, the general coverings are ^ divided upon the swelling with a crucial cut, extending bey on . a either side to the extent of an inch ; the Haps are then sepa ^ turned back. The galea aponeurotica and periosteum arei ton nected with the tumour, and to be divided like the skin, tor > 1 ^ laying bare the fungus; or this may be done by two cuts on ^ the swelling. The edge of the hole in the bone having 1 r fiie trephh % must be endeavoured by repeated applications of the crown o ^ must be endeavoured by repeated applications oi cu,... obtain ,<j and by removing the intermediate pieces with Hey s' ’gweUing. anci Dy removing me q- V , e r h,p swelling- space large enough for the examination of the base ot th - jt nW}. its connexion with the dura mater be then found not very 5