RADICAL CURE OP UMBILICAL RUPTURE. 83 1235. The radical cure of reducible umbilical rupture, in young persons, by the application of a ligature, after the reduction of the intestines, around the integument covering the rupture, by tying which tightly the parts taken hold of are destroyed, and a tough scar formed (1) is generally exceptionable ; because, firstly, umbilical rupture is very commonly cured in children by the mere powers of nature; secondly because the cure can certainly be effected by continued moderate com- pression ; thirdly, because the operation is very painful, even dangerous (as a small part of an intestine may be included in the ligature ) and after the scarring of the suppurating parts, compression is necessary for a much longer time; fourthly, because no decided radical cure can be effected, as a part of the neck of the hernial sac always still remains, and the scar produced is not sufficiently firm to prevent the dragging of the intestine. In female children, it must also be remembered that in pregnancy the scar may be torn (a). But in all the umbilical ruptures, which are several inches long, and purse-shaped, if the firm application of a truss be prevented by the great lengthening of the skin the ligature may be proper; and if it do not effect the closing of the navel-ring the close application of a truss may be rendered possible (b). (1) In former time this was recommended and practised hv Putt™ Albucasis, Pare, and others; objected to by Guv nr'Chauuac, a T^rAmendedbeSpeCialIyJby DeSAULT Graefe, and others ’ resulting from its use He savs fr/V “ Tn ,n tv, ’ !f ,not dangerous, symptoms my opinion he would not be iustified even the,, . measu^e® bad laded. And its many of Desault’s cases, supposed to be cured ’ ret ' IS ,assarted by Richehand (e) than in which a child of seven anda half™ ° ’ [?tar.ned- A case is also mentioned (/) the operation being thus performed • ‘^the mtfent ^ “ ?°11S?que“ce of such treatment, of the hernia were returned, S the sa™SdT f T h?r back> *e contents A flat buckskin ligature, three-fourths of on ineh • twisted. to insure the reduction, not so firmly as to strangulate the parts but WfS aPP .led close to the abdomen, adhesive inflammation in the sac ffine silk W 7 ^ the and excit« firmness to interrupt all circulation Whel the^Sfied apphed whh sufficient that a portion of omentum had adhered to the sac and of P31 * " vf a1*! away’ n was Pound ligature. The patient died on the tenth dav f coursebad been included in the and granulation, which sprung from its tendinous .wasPerPcctly closed by adhesion surface of the granulations • no TnTm w ; tlle colon adhered to the inner It must be admitted tint fn ltd, , 0" Could be detocted in any part,” (p. 368 1 success of the operation. “ The mouth ofTefacT ^ 50t Tery f'avourable as to the and the enormous tumour extended to thef knees Tdmdlameter of three inches, twelve inches in circumference - six inches lower ™elIln£ measured at the neck inches in length ; and two extensive ulcers existed on it postSor ^ZrSe’’ “5 J'iraliSHernje ombfliMle^iTez'des11^fM6“oi.re (c) Above cited, p. m. 181™ Gcn,'ral de Medecine, I vol. Jn\y, dieGes«nnite Heilkunde Cwn™CTT; !n J?ur,nal (le Medecine p(lr f]Ch.rurgicale, vol. ii. p. 453. We the ’ 6 Medical Sciences Lawrence’^work'on^Ierni'in—f!™ indebt<>d