369 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. ii picture be at the upper or under part, or on either side of the urethra, F Inch is shown by the impression on the exploration sound, the caustic •* ust be directed to that spot. i K small piece of lunar caustic is to be put into the inner shaft of the caustic-holder, sft A the flame of a wax taper directed upon it with a blow-pipe ; the caustic soon melts, . [(j completely fills the whole groove. The heat must not be too great, or it will swell a > the caustic; it must only be sufficient to fuse it. If any points project, they must be I moved with pumice stone. The groove will hold about half a grain of lunar caustic, A ^ if the instrument be kept in not longer than a minute, about one-third of it will i- ssolve. As by this method the caustic will be easily too much swollen up, and little imaiu in the groove, Hahn, according to Berg, proposes the following method:—Some wdered lunar caustic, from six to twenty grains, is to be moistened with water in a tie porphyry dish, boiled up over a spirit-lamp, and constantly stirred with a silver life till the water have evaporated, and the caustic remain fluid in its water of crys- ilization alone, which may be ascertained by its thin pap-like appearance, and the filiation of the crystallization-film. This paste is now to be spread with the spatula the slightly-heated groove of the shaft, and, when it has cooled, any projection is to be moved with the spatida, or with pumice stone. Whilst boiling, the caustic flies about tartly, and therefore it is necessary to put on a glove, so that the hand be not spotted :th black. 1695. If there be only a single stricture, the patient feels, on the day ' cauterization, little pain, but without passing his water in a larger ■ ream ; on the third day the slough separates, and the stream is then increased. The pain caused by the cauterization is scarcely more than m iat produced by the introduction of a common bougie. No inflam- ation occurs; very rarely a discharge, and, if previously existing, it is opped. 1696. After three days a new impression is to be taken with the explor- ing g sound, which shows how much the opening has increased, and what Burt still projects, and must be destroyed. A moderate-sized bougie must ien be passed and carried into the bladder, to ascertain that there is not ■ipiiother stricture. The caustic is now again to be applied as before, and u; the most prominent part. Three days after a third impression is to be i ken, and if the parts forming the obstacle project little, and a bougie, - o. 6, can be passed with ease, the enlargement of the canal has com- I enced. If there be still any prominence, or if the bougie pass with ! fficulty, the caustic must be applied a third time. If there be a second o ' third stricture, it is to be attacked in one or other of these ways. 1697. For the purpose of keeping the scar as wide as the urethra in its 1 Rural state, Ducamp employs peculiar dilators, and bellied bougies mtxntgies a ventre.') Three days after the last cauterization, a dilator of ! iree lines diameter is introduced, inflated with air, and left in not 'tiger than five minutes. Next day the same dilator is passed, ex- 1 iiided with air or water, and after ten minutes withdrawn and replaced wy a bougie of two and a half lines diameter, which is left in for twenty ? nnntes. This bougie is to be introduced for the same time next morning jj 1(i evening. On the following day a dilator of four lines diameter is to |*e passed, withdrawn after ten minutes, and replaced by a bougie of three f J?es> which also, on next morning and evening, is to be left in from 1 keen to twenty minutes. Two days after a dilator of four and a half nes, h* introduced, and afterwards a bougie of four lines morning and i G ening, each time for a quarter of an hour. After thus proceeding for a ee the bougie is only to be passed once a day, and allowed to remain »r a few minutes ; for the following four or five, the bougie is to be intro-