HfEMATOCELE. 456 1864. The htsmatocele which arises from a collection of blood in t vaginal tunic of the testicle is either consequent on a wound of a vessel ij that tunic in puncturing a hydrocele, or of the tearing of swollen vesse if which, in the quick drawing off the water, are suddenly deprived of the: $ accustomed pressure, or it may arise from a bruising of the scrotum. ' .1 the former case the swelling in general arises soon after the puncture, i the second it is more tedious. The diagnosis is in other respects eas. . In the third case the swelling has a resemblance to hydrocele; it, ho' , ever, generally arises more quickly, and is not transparent. If the blo<t« be partially coagulated, the swelling may, on account of its finer and irr > gular character, be mistaken for a sarcocele. Not unfrequently a haemun tocele of distinct portions occurs without violence, but from transudatir, 1 of blood, especially in gravel, and cannot be distinguished from a hydroceh < or there may be a bloody exudation with varicosity of the vessels in o t and very large hydroceles, in degeneration of the vaginal tunic and so o which is only discovered in the operation for hydrocele. Sometimes s 1 old persons mortification and death quickly follow (a). [Brodie says :—“ Hsematocele most frequently occurs in combination with hydrocc- i the blood being mixed with the fluid contained in the tunica vaginalis, and partial 3 dissolved in it. If the quantity of blood be small, which is most frequently the cas the solution is complete; but when otherwise, coagula are formed, which remain nndsj solved.” (p. 927.) Upon this point I must observe that I do not recollect to have seej a single instance in which haematocele followed the operation for hydrocele, though, am well aware that the disease is occasionally so produced, in consequence of tl trocar wounding the testicle, if the,vaginal tunic be thick and rather more than ordtj nary effort be used for its introduction; but I have never seen such a case, thought have seen many of haematocele produced by a blow.—j. r. s. Brodie mentions a remarkable “ case, where the extravasation was so great that tl tunica vaginalis was ruptured, and the blood escaped in large quantity into the cellule membrane of the scrotum.” (p. 927.) Astley Cooper mentions the case of “ a gentleman who had a large pyrnon swelling in the left tunica vaginalis, which had never been painful, and which liadM obscure fluctuation, but was not transparent. He made an incision into it, andai i charged near a pint of fluid blood. This swelling had not succeeded a blow, bntwij imputed to excessive exertions which this gentleman had been in the habit of making, (p. 214.)] 1865. Outpouring of blood into the vaginal tunic is rarely disperset i Cold resolving applications and the treatment above advised {par. looofl may be attempted, but if of no advantage, the vaginal tunic must opened, the blood discharged, any wounded vessel tied, and in a decide* I hydrocele the necessary treatment may lead to a radical cure (1). [(1) Upon this point Chelius is in error, so far as I have had opportunity of j serving these cases, as the blood is generally absorbed without difficulty in the coarwai of two or three weeks. The contrary is the exception.—J. F. s. _ , Of the length of time which a lucmatocele may exist without causing trouble A • ^ Cooper relates a remarkable instance, in which a hccmatocele “ as large as the fist had existed seventeen years, had not been attended with any pain, and its si _ weight were the only inconveniences it produced. Its cause the patient attnhu { blow, in hunting, from the pummel of the saddle, which gave him great F' ... j short time. The testes and epidymis could be felt at the lower part of the . j 9 and above it to the ring, a solid substance united with a fluid could be ejijD. \ was not in the least transparent, and he had never suffered pain in it. i• h ,]ov . was opened, a coffee-coloured fluid, blood and solid substance of a brov n J Jikt , colour was discharged, the tunica vaginalis was excessively thickened, 1 * ch , the densest parchment.” In the course of the same day, after riding feinted u iie was seized with a profuse haemorrhage from the tunica vaginalis, (a1 Excrcitationcs Pathological, p. 201.