541 AND TREATMENT. , in fewer individuals, but that where it does exist they are not generated in the 1 same number as the litliic (uric) acid calculi. A patient may void one of these 1 calculi, and never void another, or he may void a second after the lapse of many I years. In one instance, however, in examining a body after death, I discovered as i many as five or six in one kidney: extensive suppuration and complete disorgani- zation of the glandular structure of the kidney; and this local disease was the im- j§ i immediate cause of death.” (p. 225.) « Calculi of cystic oxide,” Prout states, “ are extremely rare. From what has been b. already quoted on this subject, there is reason to conclude that they generally originate 4 in the kidneys. I have only had an opportunity of examining two specimens of this & species of calculi, with reference to their primary nuclei; in one of these the nucleus }«; consisted of a small triangular amorphous mass, apparently of the same matter as the c rest of the calculus, though a little deeper coloured. In the other, no distinct nucleus I 1 could be discovered.” (p. 210.) The rarity of renal stones composed of the phosphates, Prout considers as depending v “on various circumstances. In the first place, this form of the disease is seldom original, >: but consequent to others; and the system appears to be affected generally, rather than i. the kidney locally, as in the other forms of the disease. In the second place, the large to flow of urine, and the consequent hurried state of action to which the kidneys are neces- v sarily subject, may be justly considered 'as unfavourable to the formation of renal & calculi. In some instances, however, as before stated, calculi composed of the phos- K' phates are actually formed in the kidney; but in every instance of this description, the jol particulars of which I can trace, it has occurred only in very severe and obstinate cases oi of the phosphatic diathesis.” (p. 211.)] 2015. The diagnosis of renal stones is for the most part doubtful, as i the symptoms which they produce are very various. Sometimes they it cause no pain; often the patient feels an oppressive, dull, straining- pain | in the region of the kidney, which sometimes ceases and then recurs, is ty diminished by rest, and increased by jolting movements of the body. W'With pointed, angular stones, the pain is severe and tearing, extending * towards the groins and testicles. Not unfrequently inflammation of the tt kidneys occurs with all its symptoms. The urine is often mixed with blood, mucus, pus, and sand. ■1 [“Sometimes,” says Brodie, “calculus in the kidney may be said to cause no n inconvenience at all, so that calculi are found in the kidney after death, the ex- ipistence of which had never been suspected during the patient’s lifetime. In other V cases, the patient complains of pain in the loins, and the urine is occasionally tinged 1 i with blood, especially after any jolting exercise, such as riding on horseback.” (p. 233.) Astley Cooper observes, that “the presence of a stone in the kidney is sometimes W^manifested by extreme irritability of the bladder,” of which he mentions an instance, in >! a male, that had existed for a great length of time without being relieved by treatment. iiAfter death, “ no disease of the bladder or urethra was found, but a large stone was dis- £ covered in the kidney.” (p. 221.) Brodie relates a similar example in a female, but : in this case, “ the urine deposited what appeared at first to be a muco-purulent secretion, |i but afterwards had all the characters of true pus, like that from an abscess.” After two floor three years, symptoms of a stone passing through the ureter came on; a large stone v was voided by the urethra, and the original symptoms were relieved, (p. 68.)] I 2016. Stone in the kidney is a tedious and painful disease. If only one BKidney be affected, there is less danger to life than if stone exist in both I' lclneys. If inflammation of the kidneys arise, it may cause death by its I severity, and by the complete suppression of the urine, or it may go on to " suppuration, and the pus may be discharged either by the ureter, or it may h lorm a fluctuating tumour in the loins. it 11 h/)10 rnaior'ty cases, says Brodie, “ a calculus of the kidney finds its way into it iKi J . aeF soou after its first formation ; but in other cases it remains for a consider- I i'1?6 ln * • Sidney, being at last dislodged by some accidental circumstance of I • c le. uientmns a good example, of a gentleman whose urine had been occasionally in nil , , O0t ’ liavinB been overturned in a carriage, he soon after found himself ■ e to make water, but after some straining, a renal calculus, which seemed to have