693 OPERATION FOR THEIR REMOVAL. the performance of the operation, that many lipomata are so considerable, and so largely penetrated with branching vessels, that the operation is i ; attended with considerable bleeding {3). _ _ - O v ~/ [(1) As regards ulceration, Brodie observes;—“ The skin over a fatty tumour very < rarely inflames and ulcerates. You might -a priori expect that the pressure of the ' ' 1 i rt /t ITVi A i- t. 4 « 4 . n n T "I— n „ _ _ 1 ‘ '4 UU Uilglll IX /' (, 1/ / IM tumour would often produce this effect, but it is not so. I have, however, known ; . inflammation to take place in the substance of the tumour, and an abscess to form in its } i centre.” And he mentions a case in which this happened in a large tumour on the : (back; “the abscess never healed, but continued to discharge profusely matter with an . oily fluid floating in at,” till the swelling was removed, (p. 273.) ■ ■ He also refers to Astley Cooper's opinion, that “ a fatty tumour will sometimes take sail tr t' at ■: 3W'J hm f ! IO 1 «K 1)8 11V ititio tv ^a.o a 1'E-i Jtn o upiulULlj LIlclL a laliy LllULlOLlI Will SOIXlcLlIIlGS laK6 on the action of a malignant disease, and become a malignant tumour,” and is inclined to AflTPfi with it; in (innspmipnpp nf n nnca wl-nnTi lvon r nAmnAcnd ^.1 ” uiov-ucc) wuu occonic u luuaiguaut agree with it in consequence of a case which he operated on, “ composed of what seemed to be fatty substance, somewhat more condensed than usual; hut that here and there, dispersed ihrougliout the mass, there was another kind of morbid growth, apparently belonging to the class of medullary or fungoid disease. It is reasonable to suppose that if this tumour had been allowed to remain, it would have ulcerated, and run the usual course of a malignant disease.’’ (p. 282.) (2) In the ease of diffuse tatty tumours of the neck, already referred to, (p. 690,) tt; Brodie “ gave half a drachm of the liquor potasses three times a day, and gradually jk* increased t.hp dose tn fl tirttplim d i ccnl wnrl in cm oil »«n<*oU ^p v t „ iv — increased the dose to a drachm, dissolved in small beer :” the result of which, after some time, was, that considerable absorption of the swelling occurred, though “ there . were still some remains of the tumour, but nothing that was very remarkable. I have seen” he observes, “ some other cases in which the exhibition of very large doses of the Uquor potasses appeared to be of great service.” (p. 276.) For the more common cir- cumscribed fatty swellings, there is not, as far as I have had opportunity of seeing, any remedy to produce their absorption, whether they be small or large, and therefore to be got rid of, they must be removed by the knife. It is not needful, however, to meddle with them if their size do not inconvenience the patient, and so long as they remain I stationary,, which they often will for years. But if they at any time begin to increase, taey should be at once removed, as when this action begins, it generally continues more 'or less quickly. n/3)?aSy-aS the removal fatty tumours undoubtedly is, it not unfrequently happens if that there is a good deal of boggling from inattention to the simple circumstance of cutting through the cellular cyst surrounding them, to the extent of the external wound and fairly into the fatty tumour itself. If the cyst be thus opened, the operation may generally be completed by running the finger or the handle of the knife between it and • -ne tumour which usually turns out like a kernel from its shell, being only here and L 15, lttle PFocesses of cellular tissue, or little bundles of vessels, which are es torn through, or if too tough and large to-admit this, must be cut with the knife. 2 i;’ , jVer’ th.e,cy,st ,be not °Pened’ the tumour will not turn out, and must be fairly ‘rr r 0U,t T1,, lh,e bnlfe- whlch 1S very tedious and inconvenient, as almost every little ,X fd!V: ed-b ledS ^ and re<luires ‘y'ng- the former of which does not happen, iddbi 1 r 15 therefore unnecessary, if the tumour be torn from its cyst, which is an ditiona1 reason why this method should be preferred. It occasionally happens indeed VanuHtion6 ^ ^m°Uf r t«hiS maDner’ the cavity “ppuitesand heals by - Se._j F.’S ] hlS 18 °f 6 consecluence> “d only slightly retards the If47- The r,ernoval of liP°ma is managed according to the same rules laid f Thlk reSa;d,t0 f?cysted tumours’ The wound may be brought together, •emr,voffSe ° t ie lVma be not lar?e’ and wl'0le has been completely 1 TC:.r\by <iu,ck union- Bllt in large lipomata, which can- t inlv an im'an r ?rne- '0"c the wound has been brought together, % voun,] ’pe, fect union of the skin with the corresponding surface of the loes 1 t?p0t T6d ; at eVCTy part where little bits of fat remain, union ireventefl k.e Place> a.fatty purulent lymph hows out; and, if its escape be ontinimrl il nfla“™.atl°" of skin, bursting again of the united parts, >ut lifp n 'C°n,( ltlot|od suppuration, and fistulas, remaining even through- bre the prf F° ;iCfd (1)* After tlie reni°val of diffused lipoma, there- j ges of the wound are to be kept apart by proper dressing, till