UNNATURAL COHERENCE 306 membrane, in consequence of which they can, exclusive of the cases from . * compression by neighbouring swellings and the like, be narrowed or closed in a variety of ways : thus, first, by spasmodic contraction, some. J closed in a variety ui ways . t,*.^, -j ~r — - , . *?■ times transient, sometimes continued ; second, by hypertrophy, thickening and swelling of the parenchyma of the mucous tissue lining the outlet, con- * sequent on m-evious inflammation, and on an unnatural vegetative process:^ third, by actual growing together, when for instance the mucous mem- , brane of the outlet is destroyed ; and, fourth, by scars which form at the , edge of the outlet, or in its neighbourhood. fc 1S54 The congenital closure of outlets, (Atresia, Imperjoratio,) as well , as the con o-enital union of parts, which should be separate from each other, , (Sunechia,) are arrested formations, in which the fcetus,. at an early stao-e of its development, remains stationary, when the openings and cleft* ^ ondie outer surface of the body do not yet exist and parts which at a later period become separate, are still united together. I he skin on8“*'jL ally overspreads the whole surface of the body, and has on the fartu* j where it closes the openings and clefts, the same character as elsewhere ; it thins gradually, appears then as a peculiar secreting membrane, and is , lastly removed by the process of absorption. As the Atresia are in the earlier stages of development of the foetus, natural formations soalsoare | the Synechia; for instance, union of the eyelids with each other and wi4% the eyeball; the union of the tongue, of the glans penis with the prepuce, , “ 1555.’if"the closure of the outlets be a vicious primary formation, either the organization of the outlet is natural, and its opening only closed! by a mere skin, though sometimes by a tough fleshy mass, or no trace ^ an onTlS can be perfeived externally. . When the £ an outlet bv which matters pass exists, it shows itself soon after birth, $ L closure 0^ Hie urethla, and the like ; but if it only at a later period assume the peculiar condition of outlets, as, 1 ample the vagina, the closure is generally then first obsenable. *| 1556. The treatment of union of parts, which in the natura free and movable, requires division with the knife, together witl P vention of reunion, and all contact of the divided parts by careMin^ tion 0f folds of linen, or lint besmeared with nnld, and afterwards dry in" ointments. The parts must also at the same time be kept 1 p pel position, and during the period contraeting parts, —| position and movement, only in rare cases can any C0IlsldLra . and th€. be effected by the continued use of softening ointments, • ^ ^ like; usually,7by operation alone can improvement or perfe ditioi), effected ; the management of which is different accou ing s|l0rtnes , 3 seat’ of the scan If the scar be cord-Uke> t®* and destroy motion, several transverse cuts may be made o ^ * mass, and afterwards an apparatus put on, by which the i retained in natural posture, so that the rf.^ parts be effected. When the scar is broad, or united with the u 3' * ^ » 1 owever that its release is possible without W » * it must be cut out. The scar must be included between