C 172 ] 1— OF CURVATURES OF THE LOWER LIMBS. Curvatures of the lower, are more frequent than those of the upper • i limbs, although the bony and muscular fabric of the former are much more strong and powerful, partly because the weight of the body resting J upon them more readily produces curvature, under the existence of favour- ing circumstances; and partly because in most cases, in incipient and even i in advanced curvature, walking produces an injurious effect upon the . lower limbs. Of the several joints of the lower extremity, curvature U • j least frequent at the hip, and most common, and indeed the ankle, at which also it is most generally an original A.—OF CURVATURES OF THE HIP. Curvature or contraction of the thigh upon the belly (Scelocampsis, t, j Lat.; Angezogensein des Oberschenkels an den Unterleib) may originate • i in the continued action of the flexing muscles of the thigh, whilst their r i antagonists are palsied from any cause, or from sympathetic affection of the former muscles, with disease of the verlebrce, which is sometimes con- • sequent on metastasis, or from inflammation in the m. psoas. The treatment of these cases consists in relaxing the contracted muscles - by suppling applications, and in exciting the inactive or palsied muscles * to action by the use of irritating remedies; and if these fail, the division of the flexing muscles, to wit, the m. pectineus and sartorius has been c , proposed and performed by Stromeyer (a), but which, as far as I am' aware, although successful, has not been repeated by any one else. In a case of metastatic inflammation of the spine following measles, in a child of ten ■ years, in which the thigh, at first drawn close up to the belly, by yielding of the lumbar i muscles after the use of tartarized antimonial ointment, blisters, and rubbing in mercurial a i ointment, could be drawn down to a right angle, Stromeyer divided the m. pectineus and sartorius with success. The division was made in the following manner:—One assistant fixed the pelvis, whilst another stretched the contracted thigh, which raised the m. pec- tineus so that the finger could be passed behind it from its outer side, an inch and a half, below its origin. A strong phimosis-knife was then introduced upon the finger through r i the upper half of the muscle, dividing it, and penetrating the skin. He then cut through: : one half of its breadth beneath the skin, and afterwards divided the second inner and under half; and only a few drops of blood followed the four little punctures made in the operation. The m. sartorius was divided, by adducting the knee so as to make the r muscle prominent; and having raised it with the thumb and finger of the left hand, he thrust a phimosis-knife through, about two and a half inches below its origin, and divided the muscle beneath the skin, the ends of which separated rather more than half an inch. The leg immediately straightened without the least difficulty, and having been kept on an extending apparatus for a fortnight, was allowed to get up, and in the course of three months walked about well. (pp. 119, 20.) not infrequent, at malformation. B.—OF CURVATURES OF THE KNEE. Curvature of the knee may be either congenital or acquired, and de- pending on imperfect development of the muscles, tendons, and Jascice, or on their shortening consequent on inflammation, either of the structures themselves or of the cellular tissue around or in the neighbourhood of the joint, or simply from inaction. This condition is to be distinguished from the curvature which almost invariably accompanies anchylosis following ulceration of the joint-cartilages, and which has been already considered.* (a) Above cited.