OF PUTTING IN ISSUES. 869 with a sponge, it may be for hours together, render their employment far from desirable, excepting on parts where cupping cannot be performed on account of disfigurement as’ on the face, or where the parts are too yielding, so that a cupping glass would be almost filled by them, as on the belly, or where important vessels and nerves are in the imme- diate neighbourhood, as in the neck and the like, or where there is merely a small in- flamed lump, upon which a cupping glass cannot be conveniently applied. With these exceptions cupping is infinitely preferable to leeches, and more especially as a deter- minate quantity of blood can be obtained with little additional pain for a short time the whole operation being generally completed in half an hour or less without fatigue to the patient. So far as I have noticed, the after-irritation of cupping is very far fess frequent than that from leeching, and therefore from all these circumstances I should always recommend cupping rather than leeches, where it can be employed.—J. F. S.] II.—OF PUTTING IN ISSUES. (Fonticulus, Lat.; Fontanelle, Germ.; Fonticule, Fr.) 2634. By the term Issue is meant an artificially produced, and conti- nually suppurating wound, which is made either with the knife, with bhster plaster, with the actual cautery, or with caustic. The latter two will be specially considered afterwards. The place for the issue is determined by that of the disease which calls for it, though generally a part is chosen where much cellular tissue is beneath the skin, usually between two muscles, on the arm between the m biceps and the rn. deltoides, on the thigh between the m. vastus internus and m. gracilis, on the calf between the m. gastrocnemius and m. soleus on the breast between two ribs and so on. Large vessels and nerves must oe avoided. 2635. When using a bistoury, a small fold of skin must be nipped up and aut through lengthways, and the wound stuffed with a little wad of lint and covered with sticking plaster. On the second or third day the dress- ng should be taken off, the wound cleaned, and one or more peas put into l. \ )‘ . sQuare piece of sticking plaster and a compress are put on and fastened with a bandage. The issue must be dressed daily, once or twice according to the degree of suppuration, and always properly cleansed. ’ mhi! tlhe bT‘ aDd C!eaMst for issues are littlc> solid, glass beads, which soon mbed themselves, and not swelling like peas, excite little irritation, and may be worn J R T] 7 g °Ut WaSh5ng 6Very day’ and returning them to their *‘ 2636. If on account of the patient’s dread of the knife, a blister be em- rioyed, a round piece about half an inch in diameter, must be applied and ept on till vesication take place, when it is to betaken off and thecutfcle |> oved. One pea is then to be put upon the exposed part fixed with fcSSS 1 Tier T1 With a,bandaSe’ 80 that the pea may sink into I 2fiq7 • J after‘treatraen.t18 ^e same as in the former case. |e b37; Tf the, 188ue ca,ls? V10le"t pain, the pea must be removed, or if ■ • thero h!V6ra numb.er must be diminished ; this must also be done , ot m,Ich lr>flammation, and lead wash applied over. If there be at proper suppuration, the pea must be smeared with digestive solvl tl ! i"Vrhed With h,,nar cn“slic ”"d **• like. If the s^pulwiotbe z • eat) the pea must be removed. If fungous flesh grow up around the I irs ’'I'1 °f bl-t°uUClhin-g With caustic or c,lt °Pff with scis- ^ he issue m,sPt n fT i!11 W !T ‘ ,the1ISSUe is’ h must he moved elsewhere. l rmI S e must not he allowed to heal too quickly * zsrer the i,ame °f the ^ ^ in its