55 ANATOMY OF INGUINAL RUPTURE. physis, and by the other (the outer pillar of the ring') to the spine of the share-bone. A triangular opening is thus formed, of which the share- bone is the base, and the point inclining upwards and outwards is the junction of the two pillars. By the splitting of the muscular fibres of the internal oblique abdominal muscle, the junction of its tendon with that ot the transverse muscle, forms the other part of the inguinal canal. The internal opening of the inguinal canal {hinder or inner abdominal ring) is formed by an aponeurosis, (thefascia transversalis of Coopek, the internal inguinal ligament of Hesselbacii, the external layer of the peritoneum of Langenbeck,) commencing from the hinder edge of Poupart’s liga- ment, which seems to twist itself upwards and backwards. This aponeurosis loses itself above in the cellular tissue which overspreads the inner surface of the transverse muscle, and is continued to the under surface of the !' diaphragm. Internally it arises from the outer edge of the tendon of the straight muscle, which unites with it, and therefore at this part it i is strongest. here the strong fibres of this aponeurosis ascend obliquely outwards over the femoral vessels, they form an oblong aperture for the > passage of the spermatic cord (which, according to Cloquet, is covered by this aponeurosis, to the testicle, where it is connected to the vaginal ' tunic) (1). The inguinal canal is directed from without and above, inwards and downwards, as it passes from the hinder or inner to the front or outer ring and is from one inch and a quarter, to an inch and a half long. Its fiont wall is formed by Poupart’s ligament, and a small part of the internal buliXtSTw 5 ltSihmd yf1 imvards and upwards by the delicate fleshy Ii the mnfle u! I™™1*’ below and without, by the fascia transversalil In the male the spermatic cord passes through the inguinal canal, and is surrounded besides by the process of the transverse fascia, by cellular tissue, and covered by the cremaster muscle, (the lengthened fibres of the internal oblique muscle,) the general vaginal tunic, (tunica vaginalis com- ? Langenbeck,) a process of the externalfayer of the with r pltat 6 external.surface of the external oblique muscle is covered ... V* delicate aponeurotic expansion considered to be a process of the ■n. fascue latce femons, and which spreads over the front inguinal rino- and the spermatic cord {tunica dartos, fascia superficial^ of Cooper (2) " ?\ery arises frora the external iliac above Poupvrt’s -Meiinguinalri”J £A"“mb.l.cal artery, opposite the front or oAikseuSch Where he I'T5810'1’ Pil> M" covered only by the weaker narts^ TT’ t0War,s the external ring, lelicate bundL £^ ^ ^ P"» ruptures, boll, ingnfn.l and'fem.ral, 5 far less difficult either to dissect o/descH^/^^08 S° de?rly :ls might be; for it uissect or descnbe tlian commonly considered. At the