AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH CIRCULAR CUT. 917 determine its track, and then drops the saw in such way that the splint- bone may be cut through before the shin-bone. Amputation through the leg in its lower third was preferred by the Surgeons of old • and even up to the present there are some who defend its performance at this place as’ on account of the smaller size of the soft parts and of the bones, the operation is less important and dangerous, the wound heals more quickly, and a well-constructed artifi- cial foot can be more easily worn. But this latter point has been directly denied by many Surgeons; and on account of the price and of the frequent necessary repairs of such artificial feet, this place of amputation is fit only for the rich, and on account of ; the smaller wound for old persons. The ordinary mode of amputation with the circular cut is here objectionable, as it is always difficult to dissect back properly the prettv thick and adherent skin, and to turn it up for the purpose of cutting through the circular part of the limb. The skin also easily mortifies, or a badly-covered stump ■ preferaWe' T^e formatlon of a hind flap made, as now to be described, is therefore S^EMI W first “akes the semicircular cut over the front of the leg and afterwards the flap cut, by piercing the calf with the knife, which answers no purpose at all. Tro0r th® °I''cu'ar cut should be made according to Lenoir’s (b) method in the following waj .— The Surgeon standing on the inside of the limb, makes with a narrow catlin a circular cut through the skin to the fascia, about an inch and a half below where the bone is to be sawn through. With the point of the knife he makes a second cut perpen- dicular to the former an inch and a half long, along the inside of the shin-bone near ite spme Then holding the corners of the wound, one after the other, he divides the cellular tissue and its connexion with the fascia and periosteum and forms with them two flaps, which he turns back at their base. These flaps must be made as thick as pos McubP^b-0 be °7 ‘I16 fr°nt third of the leS> as the cellular bridges which con- nect the skin with the underlying parts, must be divided only behind and on the sides In this way a sort of ruffle is preserved, cleft in front, and of which the front part alone is turned back on the two sides of the shm-bone> giving to this part of the le?g an oval shape, which the knife follows in making the first cut through the muscles. "For this purpose the operator places the edge of the instrument on the outer edge of the shin bone, and carries it to the inner edge exactly following the oblique direct of thp tat ffinpebsrk tbCUtttlng ^,r0Ugh the whole thickness of the superficial layer of muscles at the back of the leg. The assistant now lifts up this muscular layer with the skin tCand When tdey have reached the P°int whe,'e the bones are to be sawn ax rSh; hei°PeKrat07mfkeS 3 second cut> Slvlng ^ a direction exactly transverse to the axis of the limb, which at once passes through to the deep layer of muscles and nfW P!er<f> “ asaa'. the interosseal space and cuts through the^ST* The refractor » then applied, and both bones sawn through at once and irf the same pile i theKTTelS are,t,ed’ the flesh brought over tbe hone, and held together5 bv a wonnrf- bandage moderately tight around the whole limb, the two lips ofethe vertical verted imofrthnt °f thf shl“-bone.are brought together with a suture, and the wound con ertcd into the circular amputation wound, which is united in the direction of d,,, „ *C°n fesrof ,he k6- ti“ pMi“‘ u th™ >»• •» a^pSr^L^rCcof bun acc'ording^o1 Jaeoer"and oL'rT'SisnSto°blfe^ f he operation must not be performed above the tuberrlp nf *1, / v,* i 0 feaied. L() mputation through the leg should be performed not more than four fingers’ m!* f lieuXleS.d PwiM827ti0n ^ to/’b?1"™0- comPr''n’>nt MMedne Operatoiro, \bUttZ* gl'n°raleS <le Mtdecine‘ *840; <*{ ^hoiet, Traitc complet dc l’Anatomie pp^S***' de Chirur«ie Militaire, vol. jii.