982 OF EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. (n) Above cited, p. 134. the joint, -xtending from one lateral ligament to the other, meeting at their extremi- •: ties, and including the knee-cap between them. Very free room will thus be afforded, ■which may be easily enlarged, if required, by cutting longitudinally at the point of!' union of the transverse incisions. The transverse cut, according to Jaeger’s method, has the advantage of at once.) affording a close insight into the seat and extent of the disease, and assists in the necessary variations of the operation. This proceeding is safer than Moreau”s, as the < separation of the soft parts from the back of the thigh may be effected without the | slightest danger, and the longitudinal cut may be rendered either unnecessary, or at least-ij of but half the length formerly employed. Accouding to Moreau, the cure does not take place by the union of the ends of the •: bones with callus, as Park, and Moreau, the father, supposed ; however, in Mulder’s sj case, even in twelve days after the operation, good callus had been formed; and, on cutting into it three months after, it was found well formed; only a partial destructions seemed to have taken place in it by the suppuration. Jaeger is also of opinion that true bony union by callus follows very rarely, and that even in most of the successful cases, only a tough fibrous tissue, like the intervertebral substance, or the ligamentous bands in many fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, is formed, but which does not in the least oppose the movements of the joint, as there is a restricted artificial joint and a sort of motion. He correctly seeks for the causes of the e non-union, in the very extensive removal of the ends of the bones, in the undoubted destruction of union by improper dressing, and the early movement of the joint. The t whole of the condyles, therefore, should not be removed, so that the thigh-hone may ■ rest with a broad surface on the shin-bone ; such an apparatus should be applied that I the limb should very rarely be lifted up to be used, and the knee should be free. For the first four weeks the patient should observe the strictest quiet, the splints should only > be removed after the complete closure of the fistulous passages ; and the first attempt at rotating the thigh should not be made before the tenth or twelfth week, and raising the leg only after sixteen weeks. Syme (a) believes that it is often very difficult after the operation to bring the limb exactly straight, on account of the contracted state of the flexor muscles, which pre- vent it being straightened, notwithstanding the relaxation, which arises from the shortening of the limb ; that it is best to place the limb on a double-inclined plane, and in as good a position as is possible, with suitably-stroug pasteboard splints. In some days the tension ceases, and the bone must again be put perfectly straight. During the cure no absolute rest of the limb is observed, for the purpose of preventing actual anchylosis or bony union, as the very long bone that would be thus formed, besides being \ery inconvenient, as the joint is stiff', would be also more exposed to the danger of being fractured, as it offers a long lever to any violence which may act upon the extremity. Great mobility would render the limb useless. The principal difficulty in the cure consists in preventing the tendency of the limb to bend outwards, as well, also, as in preventing too free motion. . , ,.jf [I cannot refrain from noticing here a case of compound dislocation of the bone behind the leg which occurred to Anthony White some years since in \\ est- minster Hospital, and for the following slight sketch of which, from memory, am much indebted to him, as it is one of the most remarkable amongst the many ms of constitutional power, in young persons, with which I am acquainted. . , Case.—Matthew Burgess, aged seven and a half years, whilst running behind a cabriolet on August 2nd, 18.19, had his left leg caught in the wheel, which twisted ana dislocated the condyles of the thigh-bone through a large transverse wound above tnc bend of the knee-joint, and extending a little in front of either hamstring, ihe tir was so violent, that the condyles were also forced through the leg of his duck trous<E where they lay, on his admission into the hospital in the morning. The trousere having been cut off and the parts examined, neither popliteal nerve, vein, nor arter were found in the pit between the condyles, and it was not certain that they had ne> been torn through. Attempts were made to replace the bone, but without success. Looking at the child’s age, White was very averse to amputate the limb, and on consideration was determined to make an effort to save it I he boy wa-sAhm»|- left some hours that he might recover the immediate shock of the accident and tov a evening having cheered up, White passed a broad plaster spatula between the f on _ the condyles and the skin of the calf of the leg upon which they lay, and without Acuity sawed them off. The sawn shaft immediately dropped into. itt> P aoe.m^ passing the finger into the wound, which could not previously be done, it vas