DROPSY OF THE PERICARDIUM; OPERATION. 480 This operation, first proposed by Senac, is rarely practised, and of all the cases pet 4 formed there are but two which had a favourable result. Kauawajew (a) has pet 4 formed it twice on account of exudation of blood into the pericardium, arising fror s scurvy ; one was fatal and the other successful, and in the latter case three and a hal 1 pounds of bloody fluid were discharged. Schuh (b) has also operated successfully. 1907. The seat and manner of making the opening have been various! ? given. A cut made on the left side, two fingers, and in a large extravasa Jr tion, at from four to five fingers’ breadth from the breast-bone, between th ) fourth and fifth, or fifth and sixth true rib, or at any other place, if th ; heart have haply changed its position, and there be distinct correspondin' t< fluctuation, carefully through the skin and muscles, down to the pleura■ M which must be opened with the greatest carefulness, and the opening en larged with the button-ended bistoury. The exposed pericardium is cau -i tiously opened with the bistoury, and the fluid allowed to escape gradually -fc Senac fixes the place for the opening between the third and eighth rit l and five or six inches from the breast-bone ; Camper between the fourt and fifth ; Romeiro and Larrey between the fifth and sixth ; and Desaul between the sixth and seventh rib. More recently, Larrey has propose f that in the space between the base of the sword-like cartilage and th * united cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, an oblique cut should b made along the lower edge of the cartilage of the seventh rib, to the es tremity of the eighth, by which some fibres of the m. rectus and obliquu . externus abdominis are cut through, and then should penetrate deepe i) through the cellular tissue, till that part of the pericardium is reache * which0projects between the first two digitations of the diaphragm, and int 4 which the knife is to be carefully thrust from above and to the left sidt il Hager’s proposal must also be mentioned, to draw out the exposed per. \ cardium with a thread, into the wound of the pleura, after the discharg i to bind up the opening, and to fasten the thread externally, so that A pericardium may unite with the wound. Skielderup (c) advises pe l foratina- the breast-bone between the fifth and sixth ribs, where the cartil lao-e of°the fifth rib joins the breast-bone, with a common trephine; and when, after the bleeding is stanched, the fluctuating pericardium into the aperture, to open it. This practice has the advantage o . ■ pericardium being laid bare at the part where it is directly m con 1 with the breast-bone, the pleura not at once opened, and the water n * poured into the cavity of the chest. Karawajew penetrates wrtni trocar, as advised by Senac, but warned against it by Desault, ■ ’ the fifth and sixth rib, three fingers’ breadth from the breast-bone, in « the pericardium; Schuh also uses the trocar in the fourth intercos space on the inner.side of the internal mammary artery. The dresswsi and after-treatment are the same as after opening the chest (d). Richerand (e) proposes to lay bare the front of the pericardium by rem g portion of the cartilage, and of the rib, and so to open it that not only the ”” ^ but such degree of adhesive inflammation is set up, that union of the secreting 1 and a radical cure ensues. (b) Above cited. l>e Trepanations Sterni et Aperture Peri- cardii ; in Acta Nord. Soc. Med. llarniensis, vol. i. , mo’. Haun., 1818. n, 11UUI1>) ioio. id) Senac, De la Structure du Camr, p. 3Go. Paris 1749.—VAN Swieten, Comment, in Aplio- rismos Boerhaavii, vol. iv. p. 138.— Desault, (a) Preuss. Verein7.eit. 1840. No. 52. . r ,BBKv, " CGuvres Chirurg., vol. il., p- -m , £ ' moires de Chlmrgie Militaire, vol. m. V Paris, 1812. 8vo. » nAtM et d* (r) Iliatoired une Resection dB&l" DisJC, Plevre, p. 10. Paris, 1.818. ^ p« sur le Danger de la Resection dcs Co . 1818.