342 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. set free all round. The forefinger, half bent, is now to be introduced into the gut, and sufficiently drawn down to make the mucous membrane protrude, so that a portion of it can be easily removed with curved scissors, • or with the knife. If the cancer affect the whole thickness of the intestinal wall, and do not extend more than an inch upwards, the whole gut must „ i. i rlicodc^ Inirl V>nrp T'Iip p.vp.rtfid Dart is thfiii tA tl # Ij Ij m be everted, and the entire disease laid bare. I he everted part is then to be cut into, parallel to the axis of the trunk, and cut off with the curved scissors. Should the cancer have affected all the membranes of the intes- tine and the neighbouring cellular tissue, then after the first two cuts have been made, and the lower part dissected, a cut must be made with a pair of straight scissors upon the introduced forefinger, through the whole wall of the intestine backwards, where few vessels and the peritoneum can be wounded, and which has also the preference of rolling out the gut and laying bare the disease at the same time, after which it is to be removed with scissors in the sound part. In operating on men, a catheter must be • kept in the bladder, to prevent injury to it.. The bleeding vessels must, as far as possible, be tied, or sponge dipped in cold water, or a sufficiently thick bundle of lint introduced. If the bowel have been plugged, the plug must, after some hours, be renewed. For the purpose of preventing the narrowing of the gut whilst the scar is forming, a pretty large bundle of lint must be introduced, and there kept, during suppuration, for a month, h This operation is more difficult in the female than in the male, andean assistant must keep his finger in the vagina to prevent its injury, whilst the operation proceeds. In 8 the female, after an oval cut is made, distant about three quarters of an inch from tie opening of the rectum, and continued to the gut, the rectum must be gently pulled, and a two inches of its side and hind part removed, without injuring the vagina. I he pro- * iection which the rectum forms in front is about sixteen lines, on account of the ; connexions it has with the vagina, which, formed of an aponeurotic tissue, and very thick cellular tissue, stretches through the muscular fibres from the fatty tissue beneath the skin, at a depth of three lines. When, in the female, the rectum is dissected up to the attachment of the peritonceum, and drawn by means of a pair of forceps, there is a space of six inches forwards, and aside between the lower end of the bowel and the peritonceum, but behind we may proceed still higher, on account of the meso-rectun. « « the male, the distance from the anus to the peritonceum is about four inches. -1644. When the narrowing depends on a large scar, nothing more can be done than to cut deeply into it at several places, and to widen the anal * aperture by the introduction of plugs, lint, or sponge. . In the narrowing * of the rectum by tumours in its neighbourhood, which impress it, we > prognosis and treatment are guided by their situation and condition. A narrowing of the anus by growing together of the buttocks, as the consequence o > badly treated ulceration, so that the motions are only as thick as a feather stem, ana _ the most part involuntary, Rust (a) cures completely by division of the uni buttocks. _ 1645. If narrowing of the rectum run on to closure, and ileus be p 1 duced, the formation of an artificial amts is required, although always very doubtful remedy {par. 1616.) IX -OF GROWING TOGETHER AND UNNATURAL CLOSURE OF THE 1 PREPUCE. Petit, J. L., Traitc des Maladies Chirurgicales et des Operations qui leur confien- nent, vol. ii. p. 421. Zieb, Dissertatio de Phimosi et Parapkimosi. Jena, 1785. (<i) Magazin, vol. i. p. 237.