476 PUNCTURING THE CHEST, AFTER-TREATMENT; (a) Above cited, p. 1G7 (c) Above cited, p. 174. with the right hand the trocar itself is withdrawn, immediately up / which the fluid streams out. From time to time the opening of the cam should be closed with the finger, so that the patient may inspire rather mo ^ deeply, and it may be seen when the discharge is completed; the cam should then be removed, and the finger placed upon the opening, whi is to be covered up with sticking plaster. Whilst the discharge is goi j on, to prevent the entrance of the air into the chest, and to assist the esca t of the matter, various modes of proceeding and practice have been reco t mended, as well also as different reasons proposed for the quantity matter to be drawn off. For the purpose of preventing the entrance of the air, valvular canulas and stop-coc ;o with syringes and cupping instruments attached to them, have been employed. Bocvre •< canula with a hall valve; Reybakd’s canula with a bladder; Recamier's trocar, t n front aperture of which, by drawing hack a stilette, is covered with a spring pa J Schch’s trocar, its canula furnished with a stop-cock, and a trough screwed on it, which the fluid as it escapes from the canula is collected, and may be raised higher th < the opening of the canula, being guarded with a leather valve. Krause (a) objects j Schuh’s trocar that its canula is too narrow to allow the escape of pus or thicker flu: d that the play of the leather valve is frequently out of order, so that the fluid sticks t its edge ; if the narrow canula be stopped up, the apparatus must be unscrewed, and ;> probe introduced. The following method has been recommended by Baum : the operat ;o holds above the plate of the canula, fixed by an assistant, a piece of goldbeater’s skin stretched with both hands that there remains only a small aperture, through which ff id fluid escapes directly. He must very carefully watch the discharge, so as to immediate ? close the opening air-tight by dropping down the goldbeater’s skin as soon as thestrea i begins to stop. Guerin, Stansky, and von Wattmann fasten a sucking pump to tl ; canula. Compare on the contrary von Winter (6). Laennec has proposed, in weak! patients, in whom the complete discharge of the fluid may cause dangerous fainting, ai u in cases where no cure can be hoped for, and the operation is undertaken only for relit vr that merely a part of the fluid should be discharged. According to Schuh, in those cas< ^ where the effusion is ten or twelve days’ old, the lungs and constitution healthy, and. . radical cure may be expected, as much as possible should be at once discharged, and th: a then it should be allowed to flow by the trough without much talking and effort. I li on the contrary, the pleurisy and its products be already a month old, and the patier ; cachectic; if there be htemorrhagic exudation, accompanied with tubercles on the lung - and no cure be expected, a small discharge will be sufficient, even when the fluid readil I empties itself with perfect freedom. Inattention to this circumstance produces 1 peritonitis, quick reproduction of the exudation, and pneumonia. Krause (c), on th other hand, remarks, that we may be deceived in regard to the existence of tubercles, s Skoda himself experienced in several instances ; and that, therefore, even in the moe r doubtful cases, the patient’s complete recovery should never be given up, and that it i x often not possible to retain the remaining fluid by the ordinary dressings. 1901. The symptoms which occur after puncturing the chest with th trocar, are, besides fainting, for which analeptics should be given, a violet) cough, which depends on the entrance of theair and of blood into the lungs . for which opiates must be given ,pleuritis, especially if the puncture be mad* whilst there is still inflammatory excitement, pneumonia, inflammation o the diaphragm, and speedy reaccumulation of the fluid. A corresponding antiphlogistic treatment must be employed for the inflammatory symptom* j and absorption of the recurring exudation, by those remedies wluc strengthen the powers and excite the secretions, such as diuretics. Kkacsi especially recommends milk at regular periods, and in gradually increasing , rmnntitv nnd iodide of iron. If the svmntonis of accumulating float quantity, and iodide of iron. If the symptoms of accumulating: urgent, the puncture must be repeated. t*J 1902. The preference of opening the chest by cutting, or by the trocar j (6) Jalirbiiclierdesarztlichen Vereincs m Munchen, Jahrg.1V- P i.l0.