RETENTION OF URINE, 412 case. Nor, as far as I am aware, is gangrene even of the bladder often met « Cheston indeed mentions (a) an instance, which however I think seems very doubt: ■ A woman thirty-five years of age, and four months gone with child, had suppression urine, for which a catheter was passed, and five pints of water drawn off. Seven eight days after she again had retention, but then only half a pint of water could withdrawn by the instrument; after this, however, water continued to pass. On fourteenth or fifteenth day from the first attack she died, the bladder having risen uj the navel. On examination, it was found to contain a quart of foetid, thick, purul , urine, and the/(«)rf«s of the bladder is stated to have been completely sphacelated. 1 walls of the bladder had doubled by the pressure of the womb, so as to form t cavities, and this fold had prevented the entrance of the catheter. (2) The opening of the urachus, I think, must be admitted with very considers doubt. I have on one occasion, however, seen in a healthy woman a very small ooz* of clear fluid entirely free from smell or acridity from the navel, which I thoug might have been from the urachus. It had existed for a considerable time. Astr- gents were used for some time without advantage, and she ceased coming to me J. F. S.j 1782. If a retention of urine have been slowly produced, so that for long time previous, only part of the urine has been voided, whilst t bladder itself still remained full, the symptoms are less active. Frc the urine collected in the bladder, which becomes decomposed, a sir inflammation is produced, which specially attacks the mucous membrat and alters its secretion. The general health is disturbed, the digesti- suffers, the countenance pales, the muscles become flabby, the patie suffers from fever, and the like. The walls of the bladder often becoi t much thickened, and frequently folds, and all the deepenings are produc by the separation of the muscular fibres (l). (1) These sac-like deepenings are the first step of the spontaneous perforation of- bladder, which Mercier (b) has well described, and which has been considered be caused by the use of the sound. The mucous membrane of the bladder pushes b i these deepenings, and is sometimes in immediate contact with the peritunaum; son times separated from it by a peculiar thick layer of cellular tissue. These deepenu occur specially on the sides, and on the under part of the hind wall of the blunt above the openings of the ureters. After a certain time the mucous membrane of ulcerates at the bottom of these sacs, and is followed by a pouring forth of the uni the mucous membrane may even be torn in retention of urine, and in the violent emH to discharge it, which cause these cell-like deepenings, after or even without prevu ulcerative inflammation (2). As the bottom ot these sacs have not contractility w > their opening, surrounded by muscular fibres, have, the urine contained in them, is w difficulty renewed; it collects, decomposes, and produces inflammation. Someiin stones form in them, which gradually enlarge, and distend the bottom of tne » without enlarging its opening, and thus encysted stones are formed, which excite inflammation, and cause perforation. The suppuration which results nw j perforation, may spread into the cellular tissue beneath the peritoneum, and mere m one or more abscesses, which open into the peritoiuBum, either without previous l sion, in consequence of which death speedily follows; or after the suppuration MS bounded by adhesion, in which case fatal symptoms less frequently follow, the abscess opens into an intestine, sometimes in the wall of the belly, into tn •! and so on, and cause death only consecutively. Under these circumstances also unnrsj fistulas may be formed (Pione.) T r ql [(2) The bursting of these deepeuings or sacs is certainly very rare.—J. r- ] 1783. The causes of retention of urine in the bladder may be,frsti 1“ . of the bladder ; secondly, inflammation ; thirdly, spasm; and ^ stoppage of the urine depending on foreign bodies introduced in j urethra or bladder, or on stones, coagulated blood, and so on, on ling and hardening of the prostate gland, on growths in the bla / . . ... OlO 1333* I (rt) Pathological Inquiries ami Observations in (6) Gazette Medirale, vol. in. p -> Surgery. Gloucester, 1700. dto.