205 ANEURYSM. The correctness of this opinion is grounded on the condition of the arte- rial coats in their natural state, and on the careful- examination of aneu- rysmal arteries. For the internal and middle coats of arteries cannot, on account of their slight degree of elasticity, permit any great degree of extension without tearing ; whilst, on the contrary, their external or cellular coat is in the highest degree extensible. Examination shows that in all large aneurysms their proper sac communicates with the cavity of the artery by a large or small opening, frequently, as it were, fringed, and often hard and callous; that, therefore, the swelling never includes the whole tube of the artery, as would be the case in expansion of all the Arterial coats, but is connected with the artery like an appendage fixed on i stem. Further, that in the wall of the artery, opposite the torn part, :he several coats are found in their natural condition, and can be decidedly distinguished from each other; that in spontaneous aneurysm the internal coats are usually changed in a manner (par. 1405) which, indeed, favours their tearing, but not their extension. Also, in expansion of all " he coats of the artery, no collection of coagulated blood can take dace, as the blood always remains within the cavity of the vessel. The ■eason, however, why it is so easily assumed that the sac of the aneu- •ysm is formed of all the coats of the artery, is founded on the cellular issue being always considerably thickened, and at the commencement the tear being adherent, in the closest manner, to the internal coats f the artery, which are here always more or less disorganized, often piite brittle. Besides, also, every remark usually applied to aneurysm >y expansion, is equally applicable to aneurysm by tearing. Only in the lorta, near to the heart, does Scarpa admit the possibility of simul- aneous expansion of all the arterial coats; however, even here it can nly attain a certain degree, without tearing of the internal coat. [John- Hunter somewhat inclines to a diseased condition of the artery; for he says It would appear that there must be a specific disease of the artery in most cases, for natation is too local for so general a cause as the force of the heart.” (p. 545.)] 1408. Close and careful, however, as are the observations of Scarpa n valid as is his opinion against the often too ready assumption of an exten- ion of all the arterial coats in aneurysm, their truth cannot, however 6 adinitted in every case. Examinations instituted by the closest observ- es, show that the arteries are subject to an expansion, not only of their t‘thole tu.^’ but also of particular parts (a). Scarpa himself admits e possibility of extension of all the coats in the arch of the aorta i old persons, especially females, the expansion of the arch of the aorta J ;‘ f ut degeneration or tearing, is twice as frequent. Even the trunk of HIT1 ha^nfound throughout regularly expanded to nearly 1 'T ltS Slze (*)• Enormous expansion of the aorta and pulmonary • Irenes, are a common appearance in diving animals. J n , " !-minino an aneurysm in which the internal coat has been torn oLn fldeTb e T f°Td in the cellular coat’ the area of the artery ccm el nnd C°nS!l erab y enlarged> at the place where the tear has rterv ’ n Her °hange ln the inner antl i™ddle coats of the le T n that Ty are exPanded and thinned. The enlargement of ay chfckTTtb^1101'68 -°fithe a[teries’ if the circulation be in any <pansbn of Z PrinciPal 1trunk’ and the frequently considerable P ■ of the capdlary vessels in the .branching aneurysm, presently OV0 Cited. Recited, p. 74. Rreschkt, (6) Meckel, Handbuch de pathologischen Anatomic, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 244.