253 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. i two condyles of the upper arm-bone, obliquely inwards and upwards towards J the inner edge of the m. biceps. The veins lying beneath the skin are to .•I be avoided, the superficial aponeurosis of the m. biceps is to be opened .< without or with a director introduced, and the artery isolated, for which e purpose the fore-arm should be somewhat bent. The median nerve here lies upon the inside of the artery three or four lines distant from it; the median basilic vein lies sometimes upon, sometimes at the side of, and frequently beneath the artery; and farther outward is the median cephalic vein. 1468. To lay bare the radial artery in the upper third of the fore- t arm, a cut should be made, about two inches long, through the skin, a little Jbelow the insertion of the tendon of the m. biceps, in the oblique direction of the ulnar edge of the m. supinator longus. The aponeurosis of the fore-arm is to be divided in the same direction, and the edge of the just- nentioned muscle inclined somewhat outwards, when the artery appears in the interspace between it and the m. flexor carpi radialis. A branch f the musculo-cutaneous nerve lies upon the outer side of the artery, vhich is accompanied by one or two veins. In laying bare the ulnar artery in the upper third of the fore-arm, a cut two inches and a half long is to be made between the radial edge of the n.flexor carpi ulnaris, and the m. flexor digitorum sublimis, through :lie skin and aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The artery lies rather under he edge of the m. flexor digitorum sublimis, accompanied by a vein, and in its outer side by the ulnar nerve. In the lower part of the fore-arm, where these arteries are quite super- icial, they are very easily laid bare. With the radial artery the cut falls >n the radial side of the tendon of the m.flexor carpi radialis ; with the ilnar artery between the tendons of the m.flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor ublimis digitorum. If the ulnar artery be tied in the region of the ivrist, a cut an inch and . half long, and three or four lines to the outside of the pisiform bone >|hould be made through the skin and fatty cellular tissue, which often ijjills up the whole wound, and, in such case, must be in part removed. DjThe ulnar nerve is now found opposite the pisiform bone, and to its outer ; jide the ulnar artery, accompanied by two veins. The artery should be solated, and the ligature applied above the origin of its hinder branch fi vhich anastomoses with the deep palmar arch. To tie the end of the radial artery, the hand must be brought prone * nd bent somewhat towards the fore-arm. A cut is to be made from the * ntside of the styloid process of the spoke-bone, to the upper part of 111 he interspace separating the first and second metacarpal bones. After putting through the skin, the veins coming into view are to be drawn •utwards or inwards, and the delicate branches of nerves which cross the * lound divided. The position of the tendons of the m. extensor lonqus f brevis polkas is now to be ascertained, and between them, and towards f ridlPendinS Fart of the carPus’ a kind of soft and thick aponeu- nal'lTTr covf.s this part is to be divided. Beneath it are some little , he carnal K Whl<Jl 1 in the wa^ are to be removed, and then upon nth it? 1 b°neS a "n aP°neurotie layer is seen, which allows the artery, '' pon the flL°Tany,n7 r,1S’t0 Sh0w throuSh- This layer is then divided *11 n the director, and the artery easily isolated (a). (a) Manec, above cited, pl.vii. viii.