984 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT; is completed, the divided piece of bone must be freed and removed through the inner wound; in doing which the tendons of the m. tibialis posticus«; and of the m. flexor quurtus digitorum longus must be avoided. The chiseled end of the splint-bone must be made to correspond to the shin- ■ bone. If the disease have attacked the astragalus, all that part of the bone which is affected must be carefully chiseled away, so as not to leave a cut surface, which will prevent the new connexion between it and the shin-bone. After the wound has been cleansed and the bleeding stanched, each angle of the flaps is to be fastened with a suture, the knee half bent, the leg placed on its outer side, supported on a chaff pillow, and the wound covered with lint, compresses, and a Scultetus’s bandage. Jaeger (aj has modified Moreau’s method in the following manner. The longi- tudinal cut of three inches is sufficient, but the transverse cut must be larger, about two inches and a half, as he now only meddles with the skin, and therefore passes over the tendon of the m. peroneus tertius without injuring it. The L. shaped flap is dissected | upwards, the external malleolar sheath opened, and both tendons and muscles dissected from the back of the splint-bone. The anterior, posterior and external ligaments of the splint-bone are then cut away from that bone, the joint opened, and next the ligaments between the splint- and shin-bones, cut through, and the splint-bone divided above the diseased part with a chain saw, or in want of this, nipped off with the sharp bone-nip- pers ; the outer ankle is then grasped with the fingers of the left hand or with forceps, pulled up and completely separated from its hind connexions with the shin-hone; and whatever splinters remain must be taken away also. The joint-surfaces of the shin- bone and astragalus being now exposed, if they be found healthy the operation is con- cluded ; but, if otherwise, the extirpation of the inner ankle must be proceeded with. For this purpose the longitudinal cut of three inches must he carried through the middle of the inner ankle, and the transverse one forward an inch and a half, it may also be lengthened backwards so that a J_ shaped cut may be formed. The flap is now, toge- ther with the fascia, to be dissected off' close to the bone, the internal malleolar sheath opened, and all the parts on the back of the shin-bone, together with the nerves and vessels, carefully separated from the bone; and also on its front, the deltoid ligament cut through and the whole joint opened, in doing which the foot is again turned and the wound entered from the outside. After opening the joint, the inner ankle must be dislocated and brought out of the wound, by which the foot is turned at a right angle and rests on its sole. The shin-boue is then sawn off above the ankle with a small bow-saw. If the upper part of the astragalus be diseased, a small knife-saw may be passed into the wound, with which it may be sawn off, or what is better it may be removed with the file. Throughout the whole of this operation no tendon need be wounded, and the front of the annular ligament not cut through, as otherwise the antagonism to the Achilles’ tendon is taken away, and the operation is without satisfactory result (6). Mulder (c) removed the lower end of a carious splint-bone, in doing which he first took oft' the fungous growth from the bone, then removed a portion of healthy bone to- gether with the diseased part, enlarged the wound downwards with the scalpel below the ankle, separated it from the interosseous ligament, and through the capsular liga- ment and removed the lower part of the splint-bone. Kerst (2) also proceeded in nearly the same manner. [Excision of the Ankle-Joint is most commonly employed in English practice, for compound dislocation, in which the shin- and splint-bones, both usually, broken from their malleolar processes, which still remain attached to the astragalus, are protruded through the skin wound, and either cannot be drawn back into their place, or if they can, are held to excite such irritation by the inflammation of their synovial covering, as to endanger the life of the patient, or at best to render the cure very tedious and ex- hausting. Under such circumstances, Astley Cooper strongly advised the protruded ends of the bones should he sawn off, and afterwards the shaft replaced. If the patient be young, there is generally little shortening of the limb even after the removal of half an inch or an inch of bone ; and in the cases I have seen, anchylosis generally has not followed.—J. F. S.] (a) Above cited, p. G8S. triige zur Natur und Heilkunde, vol. ii. P- W« (ft) WEtiKK, I!., Zwei Kescctionen im Fuss- 1827. gelenke; in Fbiederich und IIesbelbach’s Bei- (c) Wachter, above cited. (d) Ueelkundige Mengelingen. Utrecht, 1835.—Hamburg. Zeitsch., vol. ii. part ii. p. lor.