908 AMPUTATION BY TWO FLAPS, THROUGH THE THIGH ; I may take the opportunity here of hinting to the young operator, that the knife is- not to be, as I have occasionally seen it, forcibly jammed through the muscles down to the bone, and the circular cut completed with the smallest possible quantity of the hind part of its blade. Knives are not chisels, as this practice would seem to imply, but they may be compared to very delicate saws ; and as every one knows a saw will! only act well, when it moves in a long stroke, just so is it with the knife, of which the; cutting part, whether a small portion only, or successive portions of it be used,, must be constantly in motion, continually drawn along the part it has to cut, which it will then cut readily, and not violently forced through, as some operator’s fancy it very, clever to do. (2) I prefer spreading my left hand over the face of the stump and thrusting the soft; parts back, to an assistant’s aid with a cleft cloth, whilst sawing through the bone.— J. F. S.] 2714. After tying- the vessels and clearing the wound from blood, and: drying- the surrounding parts, a roller must be applied from the uppermost: part of the stump, in descending turns, nearly as low as the end of the bone,, for the purpose of drawing the skin and muscles gently together. The.j wound is now brought together in a vertical direction with strips of stick-- ing plaster, of sufficient length, placed across it; upon these a pledget: spread with some mild ointment is applied ; a wad of lint and over it a cross- bandage, two ends of which come up on the sides, and the others before and behind the thigh, and the ends confined with a circular bandage, ai few turns of which are to be passed over the face of the stump. [The roller first and the straps of sticking plaster after, with one strap passing over- the whole length of the wound, and a circular strap to confine the ends of the straps, are all that are requisite. No wad of lint, cross bandage, or second roller are required.— J. F. S.] 2715. Amputation through the thigh with two flaps is thus performed. The patient having been placed as for the circular operation, the precau- - tions taken against bleeding, and the assistants stationed as before, the operator standing on the outside of the limb, with the fingers and thumb I of his left hand grasps the flesh .on the outside of the thigh and draws it: outwards. With' his right hand lie now thrusts a long narrow double- ■ edged knife through the front of the thigh vertically down to the bone, and with its point close to the outside of the bone, still thrusts towards • the back of the limb till it penetrate behind exactly opposite where it had entered in front. The knife is now carried further downwards, and its edge being turned a little outwards, cuts through the muscles and skin obliquely. The point of the knife is then placed vertically on the upper (front) angle of the wound, carried down on the inside of the bone to the lower (hind) angle of the wound, and as it descends along the bone, with the edge turned from it, a second flap, like the outer one in size and length, is formed. The length of the flap should be. according to the thickness of the limb, that of three or four fingers* breadth. Both flaps are now drawn back with a cleft cloth by an assistant, and the operator, with a circular incision at the bottom of the wound, divides the muscular parts still remaining attached, and cuts through the periosteum where the bone is to be sawn. The dressing is to be performed in the same manner as after ijjB- the circular operation. According to Lancknueck’s method, the operator should place himself in ampn through8the right thigh, on the outside, and when through the left on the made thf limb and firsi make on the side next him a semicircular cut from the fore to the hind surface of the thigh, through the skin and muscles obliquely down to the bon , 111™ “rJkJthe knife &k..h & limb to ft. other side pl,c«i ...ft. the wound, and draws it, in the same way as in the first cut, to ‘he lower angl h wound, at which part he must take spec.al care to cut through all the muscles.