OF EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 981 cavity was filled by a fibro-gelatinous mass, similar to the lining of the sinus. When the patient was put to bed, a long splint was applied, with a view to keeping up gentle extension. * * * There was scarcely any shock succeeding to the operation, and the i chief complaint was pain in the knee, which for some days after, was more severe than at any previous period. * * The length of bone removed was four inches and a j quarter, measured through the curve of the neck and shaft, and the limb is now (after his recovery) two inches and a half shorter than its fellow. The cartilage was almost : entirely removed from the head of the bone, and the surface was in a state of ulcera- ! tion- The trochanter and rest of the shaft seemed in a healthy condition.” (p 572-76 ) The operation was performed on the 1st of March, and on the 8th of May lie was able to get up and move about on crutches. Some months after he was in good health, walked i about on crutches, and had “ free movement both at the knee and hip, and already at the latter part, has considerable power in elevating the thigh by the action of the psoas and iliacus interims muscles.” (p. 579.) 1 V.—OF EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. CExcisio Genu, Lat.; Ausrottuny im Knieyelenhe, Germ.; Resection du Genou, Fr.) 2838. In excision of the knee-joint, according to Moreau’s method after placing the patient on his back, and compressing the femoral artery with a tourniquet, two longitudinal cuts are to be made, one on each side of the knee, beginning from two inches above the condyles of the thigh- bone, and running down till they reach the shin-bone, where they are con- nected by a transverse cut below the knee-cap. This flap, together with the knee-cap, is turned up, and the latter, if diseased, removed. The knee is then bent, so that the exposed condyles protrude on the sides the soft parts very carefully separated from the hind part of the bone’ pressed backwards with the left forefinger, and the bone sawn off. If the joint-ends of the shin- and splint-bones must also be removed a longitudinal cut is made upon the front edge of the shin-bone, and the already-made outer cut lengthened to the head of the splint-bone; the two flaps thus formed are now turned down, the head of the splint-bone removed with a small saw, and afterwards the head of the shin-bone cleared and sawn off. After the bleeding is stanched and the wound cleansed * the soft parts are brought together and covered with lint, compresses, and bCULTETUs’s bandage. The whole limb is placed on a long chaff pillow and kept in this posture with two well-padded splints, so as to prevent anv W movement of the limb, but without pressing on it. y S, )i-R\mlde1 a ^g'^dinal cut, beginning two inches above the knee-cap and endimr two inches below it ; then a transverse cut above it down to the thigh-bone, nearly in f " half circle around the joint. He then removed the knee-can divided nil u’ y “ § and carried a narrow knife close above the condyles behindPthe this-h l,,™!hS'a™e.nts» I spatula, sawed off .he hone, and then pro.raded’S heti of Z Kne fi™. * Mulder (a) proceeded in like manner - only after hivinn- n,,* , <>< bone, he bent the leg, by which the condyles were protrude ai!^^ !?"61 i W" ? 'T** «?S *P'in.-h..nes, iaving paE^iTal E “dtaT* ** ** part of According to Svme (c), two semicircular cuts should be made across the fore . (Vi) Waohtbb, above cited. ( ) &ABAT,EB> “bo™ C1ted, p, 457. (c) Above cited, p. 133.