868 OF CUPPING. Dr,, cupping consists simply in the application of cupping glasses without scarifies 4, tion and is for the purpose of drawing the blood to any one part. . II Tas occasionally scarificators and cupping glasses are not at hand, the following sal & stitutes which I recollect having heard a friend in the military service mention, may t jat- employed Some short incisions near each other are to be made through the skin, an . over them is to be whelmed a tumbler, wineglass or teacup, the air in which is to t j exhausted or rarified by burning within a piece of paper. Instead of a scarificator, Dr. Osborne (a) proposes his polytome, which consists i several lancets with circular edges fixed parallel m a frame, with a handle. It is draw ■ • oir.no- tVie skin so as to make incisions an inch m length, and one-sixteenth c one-eighth of an inch deep. He supposes a better flow of blood will be procured by thbj ^ riZhm ?someytimlSattended°with danger and even loss of life, either from wounc ii anPartery or from inability of the blood to coagulate. Of the latter kind it hi rsza ?: are sM ot styptics ana natient did well. In another case, in which a gi. Swtch i“3 slop, even ,he .ctu.l canter,-, and .he pahen, bled '-II death.—J. F. S.] L 2633 In regard to the preference of leeches, or capping for local Moot I lettino- ’it may be observed, that in general the former are more conv. I nient as they can be applied on every part, and their effect is not attendt "T,h “ much irritation as from cupping. But the utter c.rcumsMcj o-ives an undeniable preference to cupping over leeching in many casd of chronic, deep-seated, especially rheumatic or arthritic inflammation .. not merely is the bloodletting, but also powerful derivation to the An effected, as for example in sciatica, lumbago, and many affections of tlfl joints and the like (1). SI'S IMS &*£ f. g pS™ » £ K iSSSSSS&A - rr more ^rfeannot agree with Chelius in his preference of leeches over cup^g, asw^1 1 irritatioiC for . SI o Bourof.ry, Traite com.VH' f„e Oper*10' S lUlomrae,compren»ntl»Mede“n j f(t6 , ■ yj, Frobisp s Cnirurg. r . ■ to* Observations on Local Bloodletting ; in Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. m. P.3d4. 1333. (/,) Bdellometre. Paris, 1318 Svo. (cl de 1 vol. vi. pi cccxcvii.