627 LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTEITY. , selves, in consequence of the change which the parts about the neck of the bladder l< undergo, and the unsound condition of the bladder itself consequent on these changes. J The operation in such persons is rendered dangerous by the inflammatory disposition A of the organ, and by the difficulty with which the fragments make' their way through * ±e prostatic portion of the canal. “ The state of the bladder is, perhaps, of all the circumstances that the lithotritist has ;o consider, the most important; and one on which the propriety of performing the iperation will mainly hinge. Three conditions of this organ are necessary, and these nust be ascertained by preliminary observations and trials, before the operation is de- ermined on -. first, it must be capable of holding a sufficient quantity of water to facili- ate the working of the percussor ; second, it must be free from that extreme irritability hat often attends the latter stages of calculous disorders; and, third, not prone to in- lammation from slight excitement. In healthy persons, the bladder, even under the rritation of a stone, will allow several ounces of water to be injected into its cavity rithout sustaining more than a slight inclination to eject it. Its retentive powers are lot impaired in the early stages of the disorder; patients will go for many hours with- 7 '.ut “3; desire to empty the bladder, the only early symptom being a smarting, when r he bladder contracts on the calculus. It is therefore rare to meet with any difficulty n injecting water sufficient for the purpose of giving space for the operation, amongst hose who apply for advice soon after the symptoms have begun to declare themselves tven when, from the long-continued presence of the stone, the bladder becomes mor- >idly affected, and able to contain but three or four ounces of urine without an irresisti- le desire to expel it, much may be done by treatment to assuage the irritation of the iucous membrane, and tranquillize the muscular excitability. When the stone has een long resident in the bladder, and has produced a change in the mucous membrane nd a copious discharge of phosphatic mucus, signs of extreme irritability come on, and Imost seem to forbid any expectation of lithotrity being practicable. The desire to [iioid urme m renewed every two hours or oftener; the urine not only deposits a large ' dir^C°r°Urfld mUCU- but,lf\cloudy- and loaded with small flakes of adhesive nv hrnri ‘ °f mdammatlonof the mucous lining; the pain in expelling the last w drops of mucus is intense Such continued suffering affects the general health • , nd woUid seem, I say, to forbid the operation altogether Frequently, however, will’ 6 sy“Pt0“s yie d t° a system of diet and medicine, andy the patient by egrees be unexpectedly brought into a condition to bear the operation.” fp 23-30 f 7 tf uodemteS^lTsm0n^n7irr>iable btladder* usuall.y experience some form of irritation after 1 i Wlth water and examination with the catheter. It generally urmi °f rig0,i OCC™g once or more m the twenty-four hours after the * fie ri wTf r ’ fi?d followed by severe pyrexia, that lasts for several days. }. jloEid hwhtself mdicattes the degree of irritation produced by the sound; and if not il evident tbf6bflt S age ?f feve,r.’ u mdicates nothing more; but the presence of purexia l^ce of inflammatacm taking place, and such a state is most unfavoumble to I .nce J' dlS*;'f^tl0n; therefore, is to be drawn between these two states; the occur- i'tends the ^ d°*.deter t ]e Surgeon from commencing the operation—it often a „ f e rst examination, and may never recur; but the indication of inflammation t a coatl,nued state of pyrexia, should at once induce him to defer theope™-’ I i.’H;at l !,y withdrawing all stimuli, he has brought the bladder into a tranouil state l«d bffiSK h“ f. ?f“» kept »P by improper fbod°1^Sfv d 5?k 1 *‘omditio f mol Plethoric condition of the system, and a flushed conhtenance Such 5 “Z? f-y 1 °Xerc?me > and ,s unlike that state of bladder which is the effeet of I “One nrinei1S°ir8aniZatlf°’ and?^ten associated with diseased kidneys, (p 37 ) I- of SZr 0f tbe bladder is a ™rbid condition'of thein,^, ftserves tht elnenS .l.m,1! ab°Ut the neck of the bladder, above all others '* e most difficulties and widalso fim 'tfe^V^f ’ &S U ls h°re that he will ever meet with I• Hty of this part of the M 1c s"arce ?f daager. The extreme suscepti- i ation following the intro 1 t^ ’S unfredu.ently evinced in severe rigor and inflam- I :«‘ed with anmargedptosate1 ^TheT** “ Tbo comPlain of dysuria con- Ppn, have a severe attack broucht'on h ft perS°f! ofte? hl6hly deposed to inflamma- ' lrpose of ascertaining the th® ,casual introduction of an instrument for the * aad is combiSScalal L Wben the morbid audition of the [faces, become greatly Scret^and ?nflfammaflon> and the danger of its conse- i’t Prepared for the operation hi’lfeef l Pejformance of lithotrity in persons P“ It would be aZC-', h u kT\n t0 mduCe a fatal cystitis." (pp. 38, 9.) g error, says Brodie (a), “ to represent lithotrity as preferable on (a) Above cited. 2 s 2