331 OF THE ANUS. aj-eases at the coming on of the menstrual periods, and also arises from every ukertion, cough, jumping, making water, and the like. Some patients, in 4!iis disease cannot sit, whilst others cannot stand. In consequence of this iSmtraction, very large quantities of stool are retained, the pressure of ,, hich, against the anus, causes long-continued and fruitless straining, and ies discharge can only be produced by injections, or by the mucus which ■trie intestine secretes; even the escape of air is often accompanied with lin. When the disease has long continued, wasting takes place from the .■ji-verity of the pain, and disturbance of the rest, very great sensibility, ( ‘ten hypochondriasis, and affections of the neighbouring organs, as oBtention of urine. 1 1621. On examining the external orifice of the rectum, hemorrhoidal unmours or little knots are often found ; also, in some cases, a slight dis- .sparge, which symptoms, according to Boyer, not in immediate relation kith the complaint, on the contrary, are so, according to my experience, :aijs, after the removal of such knots, I have noticed a speedy cure. In those ; ises in which contraction of the anus is accompanied with fissure, the ji wer end of the latter is found at the part where the patient feels pain, . bually in the right or left side of the circumference of the anus : in most i ises it, however, can only be seen, when the buttock of the affected side i . forcibly drawn back, and the anal orifice drawn a little asunder, in many ises, indeed, the fissure cannot, even in that way, be discovered. The : traduction of the finger into the rectum, which always causes severe and tmost unbearable pain, if it press on the fissure, discovers a violent, per- manent contraction, but neither swelling nor hardening of the mucous embrane: but at one spot, a lengthy indentation running the length :f the intestine may be found; or the fissure is distinguished by the peculiar din which the patient feels when pressure is made upon it. ! ?s [Bhodie observes, that, “ in connexion with the spasmodic contraction of the ■ hinder muscle, you will frequently find a small ulcer of the mucous membrane of ,e rectum. This ulcer is always in a particular spot, at the posterior part, opposite to e point of the os cocci/gis. I imagine that it arises from the mucous membrane there :ing torn by the pressure of the hard faces, at the time that the evacuation is labour- g, as it were, to get through the contracted orifice of the anus. Such an ulcer as I ive just described adds very much to the patient’s sufferings. It is always excessively nsitive; the least pressure of the finger upon it occasions the patient the greatest pain, id the pressure of solid faces produces the same effect, (p. 26.) Bushe (a) speaks of another form of spasmodic contraction of the sphincter ani, in nich no primary affection of the gut is discoverable, and in which the introduction of e finger into the gut does not give pain. (p. 126.)] 1622. Spasmodic contraction of the anus may be distinguished from s narrowing, by the swelling, and by the disorganization of its mucous lembrane, by the pain which accompanies going to stool, and continues >me time after, by the absence of discharge of matters, by the long-con- nuance of the complaint, and by the introduction of the finger beyond ie contraction of the sphincter, discovering neither tubercle nor hard ng formed by the internal membrane of the rectum. The characteristic ign is the fixed pain at one spot of the circumference of the anus. It ms not, however, be overlooked, that continued spasmodic contraction gnadually c.auses a greater development and activity of the up o-n/ % af/-H/.° exudation, organic changes, and thickening of fr0m the constant irritation. 1 he remedies employed for spasmodic contraction are, cooling (a) Above cited.