DIVISION OF ORGANIZED PARTS. 857 2592. All kinds of operations, according to their nature, must be referred ft to the following principal acts, which, at the same time, must be considered as the elements of every operation, and of which every single act consists : They are, first, Division ; second, Apposition ; third, Dilatation. A.—OF THE DIVISION OF ORGANIZED PARTS. 2593. The division of the connexion of organized parts, is that one of the elementary acts of an operation most frequently brought into use, and in most operations constitutes their principal circumstance. 2594. The division of organic parts may be effected by mechanical or ! chemical means ; though the latter is less employed in reference to division than to other objects, on which account division by mechanical means will now alone be considered. 2595. The parts of our body may be divided— First, By a cut or incision. Second, By a stab or penetration. Third, By tearing asunder. Fourth, By tying or ligature. 2596. All instruments employed for the division of soft parts hi, cut- ting must be placed in two classes; to the former belong those which liave a single cutting edge, knives, bistouries, and scalpels ; to the latter lose consisting of two cutting edges, connected crosswise in their middle’ and germinating in handles ; such are scissors. di'stinouislied from each other, to wit, by the fixing o- J Zf V handlei and blJ the form of the blade itself J J it dm8' T/e ),ade lS! 6lthf attached firmly to the handle, as a scalpel, or it drop* into the scales of the handle and can be opened, as a bistoury. In bistouries the connexion of the blade is either such, that when opened mav be fixednfi f n Y’ ^ °nIy fnnot fal1 back> or the open blade meted?/* d T Z Th! mechamsni for this purpose consists either of a roetallic ring, which can be pushed up on the laid-back end of the blade ■ n a particular form of connecting stem and catch, through which it r: (pSy’s bbf Wl\Gn tHe bist°Ury is °Pened’ the b]ade is thrust up, blatter L ‘ l 0r .ln a sPnno) llke the common clasp-knife. The Bt atter kind of bistoury is the most convenient. hi i ^ be utdity of the bistoury depends specially on the form of it* ' t| “.f j.tbe langth and breadth are of less importance. The following are I !Se dt '°n. aCCPfdin«,10 f°™ :-«• Th'. straight bistourgft whfeh I (|lf, | ”, 'Tif11*11 t0. ;hf ,‘!P. whlch is formed by its narrowing from ifailTThe “7“ Ti-he dT,kds ':x ' ^andJ™TlCTZ7ht'edf’ed bi1mr!' “ "Msl -ove„S ta all , “nu witn it alone can a regular cut be made v / ““ /“» lh‘ from its beginning to Us end, ■ ^middle and leftXd 71ieuma<l1e‘n,thC foll»wing manner:—The ulnar edge of pressed firmly on it and^h/d ^V |6 where the cut >s to be made, he thumb ,■ ’ c le sun hghtened from above or below, and with thumb and forefinger stretched on either side. The bistoury held