IN THE CESOPHAGUS. 383 swallowing be not entirely prevented, or by the injection of a solution tartarized antimony into a vein (a). It must, however, be observed, in ference to the vomiting, that if the body firmly close the oesophageal be, and will not be moved by the sickness, the mischief is increased, and en tearing of the oesophagus may ensue. If the foreign body be at the upper part of the oesophagus, it may often, the tongue be strongly depressed, be seized with the finger, or with a ir of oesophageal forceps, and withdrawn. If it be lower down, it may removed also by the forceps, or a blunt hook, formed of a piece of wire nt together; or by a whalebone sound with a piece of sponge attached its extremity, which is to be passed below the body, and when the jnge has swollen by the absorption of the moisture, may be withdrawn, ttle pointed bodies, as needles, fish-bones, and pieces of bone, are gene- ly more easily removed with the sponge. A flexible sound, havino- its tremity aimed with several loops of metal, has been recommended for ■ s purpose. Bulky bodies, which completely fill the oesophagus, are very licult of removal, because the instrument cannot be passed beyond them, tempts at removal must always be made with great care and considera- n. Delpech (b) objects to the use of the hooks and metallic loops as efficient and dangerous. 1 S* peculiar operation of the vomiting is not merely the commotion but the inverted fraction of the muscular fibres of the (Esophagus. For the purpose of making the pAn?vnlliPfery’ mU?lk?1r°,US and 0lly remedies. melted butter, oil with camomile 5 6gg a,nd.thc most be administered. Tobacco clysters are often ! ,ntaoe0uts. m pi oducmg vomiting and diminishing the spasm. The removal of a , - o°k, which had been swallowed, the line of which remained hanging out of the Tlet’aho^tS H a fe ^ bullet through which the thread was passed, and the by FmoHT (c). n 10 CUrVe °f thG h°°k S° aS t0 Shidd its point, is men- 1732. In thrusting down foreign bodies into the stomach, a whalebone lTtht|a of sponge at one end, commonly called a probang, first ed with oil, is employed. This mode is to be practised especially if A,tdeign b-°fy ui S°ft- and have a smooth surface; but if it bePrough or ■rown anTJm VnJUFy tofthe ?S0Pha9us be effected by thrusting l^nce in ti ! 7 f' SUCh character’ that on account of its mere >-nce in the oesophagus, dangerous symptoms may be dreaded Under mo8V'rge"t tie { 1st1 down Tb 16 h,”dy,ln a»y other way, will determine that it should be Lad and tb, liL^'f"! 7 bealImved to swallow mouthfuls of chewed i .h'ouUeBJm ' b0<'y,i0"'n, a"d “ bl°W bet'V“n t did ■n and ^kl^-d the XSS C:iir^edi“g to thrust I S^nTf & J235*!*, a ^ b cnioved; the important of ddn^ thk’!° ”7” ifbe within reach, and can * Vl* P* »10.—Grakpk. July, (rf) MS. Lectures.