860 GENERAL SURGICAL OPERATIONS; 2610. The division of parts by tying or the ligature is a slow cutting in by its firm tying, in which the divided parts heal, proportionally as the ligature cuts deeper in. This method is always tedious, painful, and should be only employed where the neighbourhood of important parts render the use of the knife dangerous, for instance, in fistulous passages and tumours of various kinds. 3611. The division of a hone requires, on account of its hardness and firmness peculiar instruments. Such are performed, a. After the manner of a cut with the saw ; with the circular saw, the trepan ; with the chissel and hammer; with the bone-knife, and with the nippers. /3. After the manner of a stab with the perforating trepan ; and y. By scraping, either with the bonescraper or the exfoliation-trepan. B.—OP THE SEPARATION OF DIVIDED PARTS. 2612. This operative proceeding in many cases, although not the prin- cipal object, yet however is one of the principal acts of the proposed ope- ration. The division of parts happens in most operations, and the indica- tion is to bring them together again. In how many ways this may, and in certain cases should be done, has been already mentioned in considering the treatment of wounds in general. C.—OF THE DILATATION OF PARTS. 2613. The object of enlarging is either simply to obtain a free entrance into natural, unnarrowed openings, as for example enlarging the mouth, the vaqina and the like by dilators and specula; or it applies to the unnatural narrowings of natural passages, and is then effected by the introduction o tents, or elastic bougies, which are gradually selected of arger size; or by such substances, as by attracting fluid, increase m bulk, like spon tent, catgut, and the like. These remedies are also often employed, alter previous cutting, to prevent reunion. Second Section.—OF GENERAL SURGICAL OPERATIONS. I.—Of Bloodletting. (.Abstractio Sanguinis, Lat.; die Blutlassen, Germ.; la Saignle, Fr.) 2614. Bloodletting may be performed First, By opening a vein, 1 General Bloodletting ; or, Second, By opening an artery,) Third, By the application of leeches, lLocal Bloodletting. Fourth, By scarification or cupping. ( A.—OF OPENING VEINS. C Venesectio, Phlebotomia, Lat.; ErSffnung der Venen, Germ.; Ouverture dc a K Veine, Fr.) Gyer, N., The English Phlebotomy, or Method and Way of healing by Rloodletu Butler^It.j M.D., An Essay concerning Bloodletting, &c. Loudon, 1 -34. Svo. Wallbaum, Dissert.de Venesectione. Gdtting., 1-49.