[ 830 ] SIXTH DIVISION. LOSS OF ORGANIC PARTS. 2530. The loss of organic parts is either the consequence of external injury, of operations, or of destroying ulceration ; or it is a congenital misforraation. The means for the removal of such misformations, or for : restoring the functions of lost parts (Chirurgici Anaplcistica) are of two kinds, Organic Restoration, or Mechanical Apparatus. I.—OF ORGANIC RESTORATION OF LOST PARTS. Tagliacotius, De Curtorum Chirurgia per institionem. Venet, 1597. Rosenstein, De Chirurgise Curtorum possibilitate. Upsal, 1742. Dubois et Boyer, Dissert. Queest., An curfee Nares ex brachio reficiendae? Paris, 1742. Carpue, J. C., An Account of Two successful Operations for restoring a lost Nose from the integuments of the forehead; with Remarks on the Nasal Operation. Lon don, 1816. 4to. Graefe, C., Rhinoplastik, oder die Kunst, den Verlust der Nase organisch zu ersetzen. Berlin, 1818 ; mit sechs Kupfertaf. Sprencel, W., Geschichte der chirurgischen Operationen, vol. ii. p. 185. Halle, 1819. 8vo. Graefe, C., Neue Beitr'age zur Kunst, Theile des Angesichtes organisch zu ersetzen; in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. ii. p. i. Delfech, Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. ii. Dieffenbach, Chirurgische Erfahrungen, besonders liber die \\ iederlierstellung zerstorter Theile des menschl. Korpers nach neuen Methoden. Berlin, 1829-38. Labat, De la Rhinoplastie, Art de restaurer ou de refaire completement le Ne*. Paris, 1834. Blandin, Autoplastie, ou Restauration des parties du Corps, qui ont etc denotes, a la faveur d’uu Emprunt fait it d’autres parties plus ou moms eloignees. Paris, i»w- Zeis, Handbuch der plastischen Chirurgie. Berlin, 1838. Serre, Traite' sur l’Art de restaurer les Difformite's de la Face selon la Methode par deplacement ou Methode framjaise. Montpellier, 1841 ; avec un Atlas. Dieffenbach, Operativ Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 312. von Ammon und Baumgarten, Die plastische Chirurgie nach ihren bishengeu Leistungen. Berlin, 1842. Liston, Robert, Practical Surgery. London. Fourth Edition, 1846. Svo. Mutter, Thomas D., M. D., Cases of Deformity from Burns successfully treated J Plastic Operations. Philadelphia, 1843. Svo. Cases of Deformity of various kinds successfully trea by Plastic Operations. Philadelphia, 1844. 8vo. Fergdsson, William, A System of Practical Surgery. London, 1846. 8vo. cond Edition. lit 2531. History points out the methods of organieMiy Tutoring tie oarts of the face, especially of the nose, the mutilations of winch ^ Bj SS horribly, under thra distinct classes. Either the netghbonnng