EXARTICULATION OF FORE-ARM AT ELBOW. 961 [(1) Unless disease of the acromion, glenoid cavity, or coracoid process, imperatively require their removal, when amputation at the shoulder-joint is performed, or when by accident the skin is not of sufficient length to cover the joint, the proposal of removing these processes, or either of them, is not to be entertained; no real advantage is to be gained from it; and if it be believed, that the continuance of the cartilage upon the glenoid cavity offer any bar to union in the ordinary time, which, so far as my own personal experience, and the observations I have made in the practice of others, is certainly not proved, the Surgeon may scrape off the cartilage, if he have a fancy to do so, but it is matter of no consequence at all. Amputations at the shoulder-joint are not very frequently needed, as it appears from Listons reported cases, he had but one in University College Hospital during five years, and myself only one in six years at St. Thomas’s, both secondary to accident, and both recovered. Astley Cooper says“ In every instance in which I have performed tbe amputation through this joint, and every case in which I have seen it done, the re- covery of the patient has been speedy and perfect.” (p. 432.) ] Amputation through Shoulder-Joint. Accident or Disease. Operated on Remarks. Dis- charged. 1840 John Bateman, aged 39 (coal- carman), admit- ted July 25. Compound fracture, with comminution and small wound in skin, hut not much bruising; conse- quent on cart-wheel passing upon, but not over the arm. On the fourth day irritative fever set in ; the whole arm much swollen. On the sixth day some bloody oozing, which continued through the day, and reduced him much. Bleeding came on again on morning of twelfth dayt to the amount of six ounces ; said to have been in a jet, but seemed to me to be venous; but it brought him very low. Was easily checked by pressure ; and when he was revived by stimu- lants, the operation was performed. Aug. 6. Twelve day3 after. With flap of m. deltoides by piercing from before. The artery held ns the second cut was being made. Six arteries tied, and three hours after two more. The flap was dropped down, and covered with a wet cold cloth. He became very restless soon after the operation, and so continued for nine hours, till the opium given sent him to sleep. At twenty-two hours the flap wa3 lightly applied with straps of plaster. Went on very steadily improving; but the dis- charge from the wound was very profuse. Nov. 10. VII.-OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FORE-ARM AT THE ELBOW. (Exarticulatio Antebrachii, Lat.; Ablosung des Vorderarmes im Ellenbogengelenke, Uerm.; Disarticulation de VAvant Bras, Fr.) Brasdor, above cited. Moublet; in Journal de Me'deciue, vol. xi. p. 240. Mann; in New York Medical Repository, vol. vii. 1821. Textor ; in Neuer Chiron, vol. i. part i. Dupuytren ; in Sabatier Medecine Opcratoire, vol. iv. p. 524. New Edition Rodger ; in New York Medical and Physical Journal, vol. vii. p. 85. r.iS2bvTKLS.r„rfi0n’ P,erf°Ted Pa1,e'’ and f«Hy deter- hr',|',|' y,,P j R'“ °1l,J«'lej to by nearly all writers, and amputation P ° ^ lower third of the fore-arm is preferred to it. Mann ul]yTOR’ upuytrenj antl others have, however, performed it success- ion- •— A VtH °pefation is best Performed according to Textor’s direc- • : ^ [ raaking provision against the bleeding during the operation arm beimr straio-htonprl r, lr..,™ n„..ui„ ..... , .. F; ..un, -1 the arm being straightened, a° long doubl^cS'^^i^Sis 3q