571 THE LITTLE AND GREAT APPARATUS. this text, must be considered the direction, to press the stone upon, and not into, the (i neck of the bladder, by which process the cut seems to be made into the body rather than t into the neck of the bladder, which Heister distinctly directs; according to whom, the Nt parts which must be cut through are, the skin, the fat, and between the left m. erector : penis and the bulb, the hinder and under part of the bladder up to its neck. According !• to Bromheld (a), the semicircular cut should be carried in such way above the anus, •i that it may pass through the raphe and its horns lie opposite to the ischial tuberosities. This statement, which is objected to by Closius (6), was assumed by Chaussier (c) /. and by Bkclard (d), to be the true interpretation of the text of Celsus, and both these * Surgeons have proposed a peculiar practice by the addition of a staff, which Dupuy- [ tren adopted successfully in a living person in the year 1824. This proceeding, in which the neck of the bladder is cut into on both sides, in a corresponding direction to i; the external cut, will be more fully entered into in considering the lateral operation (e). The objections to this interpretation may be found in Jourdan (/), Turck (o) : and in Begin (A). Schonmann (i) defines the external cut, as being semilunar with a its convexity towards the hip-socket, its upper horn towards the left side of the raphe, ri and the lower towards the left ischial tuberosity. 2063. This mode of treatment, which has only historical value, is de- >r- servedly objected to, as it is very difficult, and sometimes impossible to press k the stone into the neck of the bladder, which is bruised by so doino-; as $> there is no certainty of what parts are cut through ; and as the operation t is performed without a staff, the urethra may be cut through transversely, h and the ureters, seminal vesicles, and the vas deferens of the left side may 3 be injured (j). It can only be called for in the rare case of a stone deve- b loped in the neck of the bladder, forming a distinct projection in the moerinceum, and when no staff can be introduced. Upon this operation the following works may be consulted: i Celsus, De re medica, lib. vii. cap. xxvi. Ilsemann, J. G., (Pncs. L. Heister,) Dissert, de Lithotomia Celsianse prsestantia et usu. Helmst., 1745. ; Clossius, Analecta quEedam ad historiam Lithotomise Celsiante. Tubing., 1792. s i Turck, De l’lncision pratique's par Celse, dans l’Ope'ration de la Taille chez les Hommes. Strasb., 1818. 2064. Cutting for the Stone with the Great Apparatus, (.Apparatus Wpiagnus, Lat.; der grossen Gerdthschaft, Germ.; le grand Appareil, Fr.,) ■ o named on account of the great number of instruments required for the Operation, was invented by Johannes de Romanis in the beginning of ie sixteenth century, and subsequently made public by Makianus i^anctds DE Barletta, on which account it was long called the Sectio ; uariana. This method consists in first passing a staff into the bladder I In opening the urethra in its spongy part, by a cut through the perinreum, ' M in enlarging the neck of the bladder, by particular instruments, to uch extent that the stone can be pulled out. 2065. The patient having leaned backwards on an oblique surface, was ■■-aced upon a high stool, or on the edge of a table; his hands bound to "r *«*» which were drawn up and separated from each other, and at the >ame time several turns of the bandage passed round his neck and | W Analecta qntcdam P- 218 ■ lelaianm. Tubing., 1782. I iifl M°bi and, Dissert. Propositions sur divers 1 oe Medecine. Paris, 1805. I IV Impositions sur quelques points de Mede- : ne. Cans, 1818. . ■) I,,;?EMANN, *1* G.,(Pries. L.IIeister,) Dissert. -?•“ ™Celsi“n® prajstantia et usu. ' Ur Cvi’ar A ° ir"R0K-.I)e 1,Incision pratiquee ■ ommea* TaiUe U'8 (f) Article I.ithutomie, in Diet, des Sc. Medi- cales, vol. xxviii. p. 384. (<?) Journal Complement, du Diet, des Sc. Med., vol. in. p. 184. (A) Supplement to Desohamps, Traite p. 420. (t) Commentatio (le Lithotomia Celsianu. JenDD. 1841. U) joiin Rei.i., Principles of Surgery, p. 50, pi. v. London, 1815.—Frobiep’s Chlrurg. Kup- fertaf., pi. lxxi.