DISEASED CHANGES OF STRUCTURE. 646 and deposited ; hence is it often very difficult to determine, whether a dis j eased structure is to be attributed to the change of the organ, or to a new j formation. [Lawrence has well observed“ It is not easy to draw a clear distinction betweei i new or accidental productions and changes of structure, or degenerations of organs; There is no definite boundary between them; on the contrary, as in other diseases-.: there is an insensible transition from one to the other. In the case of Fungus hamiatodem we find the same structure sometimes occurring as a new production, an independen tumour; sometimes as a change of structure in a part. Indeed, we meet with thi o-rowth in three distinct forms; viz., as a deposit enclosed in a cyst, as an unencystec formation, and as an infiltration in the substance of an organ. Again, we find a simila gradual transition between the structures composing various kinds of tumour, so tha we often hesitate in deciding to which species a particular swelling should be referred>■ As the same gradual blending of one form into another occurs throughout the whob field of disease, we cannot wonder that the several attempts at reducing its infinitely diversified phenomena to an artificial arrangement of classes, orders, genera, specie and varieties should have failed.” (p. 4.)] 2148. All degenerations of organic parts appear to have their origit in a local increased vascular activity, on which depends the deposit of ; substance more or less resembling the elementary parts of the organ, or o a peculiar substance, in the interstices of the part, in which by the shooting forth of the vessels, and their very extensive ramifications, the unnamrar formative disposition is sustained, and the growth of the tumour increasedr We find, therefore, also in most cases, that although there be no charac* teristic signs of inflammation, yet that increase of temperature, peculiar sensibility on pressure, tension, and the like accompany the beginning o degeneration. In most cases, the increase of vascular activity is not to lx distinguished by the symptoms which characterize it; for little as we can comprehend the natural growth and development of organs without in« creased activity of the vital processes, just so little can we understand it u diseased structures. Development of vessels, diseased secretion, continuer production of the secreted matter, with growth of vessels in it are the processes, which in the course of these diseased formations are constantly repeated. The unnatural commixture and condition of the juices, anc the large quantity of inorganizable matter may indeed effect the sepa or. of peculiar substances, distend, increase, and change the tissue of different organs; but special degeneration with self-active production, proceeds oni} with increased development, and multiplication of vessels. Secret in organizable matter remains either in that state, or hardens, and then rsa operates on the surrounding parts, but always remains without vascuttfl connexions, and is destroyed in a purely chemical manner, as the his of the formation of tubercles shows, although even they may be convener from the formless condition into cells. . 2149. In the diseased changes of organic parts, either the vessels, art ■ ries, capillaries or veins, often the one more than the other, are special^ developed, or the uninjectable part of the cellular tissue is specially P valent by the deposit of formless matter, or both exist at the same time different proportions. If these conversions depend only on quantitauwj* changed nourishment, they can increase to an enormous extent, 'V1 otherwise than mechanically operating destructively ; they support ^ selves like the natural tissues, and participate in the general chanff ^ matter. But if there be at the same time a qualitative change <> nutritive matter, if they depend on general diathesis, and altera^", witt formative disposition, they have a specific character, are accompam