686 KINDS AND CAUSES OF 2232. Both these opinions are true, and founded upon careful obser J tion ; but it is improper to attempt setting aside the one by the other. | both are obtained from different states of the disease. The opinion® Louis and Wenzel is applicable only to the true fungus of the d, £ mater; that which Siebolp, Sandifort, Walther and others h; 1 noticed, is not entitled to the name of fungus of the dura mater, but iifl be distinguished as a fungus of the skull, (Fungus cranii,) as the dege: § ration in it begins either from the diplo'e, or from the dura mater i ,i pericranium at the same time, and the bone is converted into a fung .: substance of greater or less firmness. This distinction between fum durce matris and fungus cranii equally applies to similar degene* tions in other bones, where fungous growths are developed between ■ • periosteum and bone, and the bone is destroyed merely by these increas masses; whilst other fungous groivths proceed from tlieboiie itself andft j the medullary substance, and the bone is converted into a Jungo: sarcomatous, steatomatous, or other kind of substance. Those growths which are formed on the external surface of the dura mater in cor quence of ulceration of the skull-bones, must be distinguished from true fungus of t dura mater. 2233. If the several origins offungus be reviewed, five different fon; must, according to the observations of myself and others, be distinguish^ First. The dura mater alone is capable of fungous degeneration, wh appears either on its internal or external surface, or on both at om The fungous parts of the external surface of the dura mater are connecd firmly with the more or less completely destroyed internal surface of t skull, so that the organically connected excrescence of the dura matet converted gradually into the same fungous, steatomatous, or fibri substance. When this degeneration gradually affects the skull-bo > throughout their whole thickness, and by its external protrusion for a swelling, it becomes firmly connected with the bone, and imperceptm involves It, so that perhaps only at certain parts can its bounds be p ceived through the firm edge of bone. Such tumour admits of no re nor is any pulsation felt; at least the pulsations of the brain can alone communicated to it when a large extent of the skull is included; they© however, only be very slight, and distinguished always by their regu from the pulsation of single vessels, with their numerous ramifications. the swelling. In the other kind of isolated fungous degeneration of the dura rm the degeneration is restricted entirely to it, and ordinarily to its , surface alone. The fungus arising from the external surface of t he « mater is especially characterized by the enlargement of its su without destroying the surrounding parts otherwise than P _ on which account the fungus is only organically connected with th of its original development, and never with the bones of the skull, destroys.” The destruction of the bones, already noticed as occurring u progressive increase of the fungus, always corresponds to the exUj" , , tumour, extends from within outwards, and at last bursts throug i ternal table of the skull, so that the swelling is perceived externally ^ the coverings of the skull. Hence on examination, according various degrees of development of the fungus, more or less deep ^ are noticed on the inner table of the skull; and when the " t0 a pletely burst through, the destruction of its inner table is an a.