[ 986 ] VIII.—OP EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. (Excisio Manila Inferioris, Lat.; Ausrottung des Unterkiefers, Germ.; Resection de la Machoire Infirieure, Fr.) 2842. Excision, Decapitation, and even the total Extirpation of the Lower Jaw, may be indicated by various kinds of disease (1). First, On account of cancerous degeneration, which has extended from the lips to the bone, or when the cancer has arisen in the bone itself. Second, On account of osteosteatoma, osteosarcoma, spina ventosa, or fungoid degene- ration of the jaw. Third, On account of deep-seated caries. Fourth, Ou account of exostoses, which cannot be removed at their base. And, Fifth, on account of want of union of fractures of the lower jaw. Accord- ing to the difference of the seat and extent of the disease, excision of the middle part, the chin, or of the sides, with or without the removal of the processes at the same time, or even the extirpation of the whole lower jaw-bone, may be required. That this operation should have a favourable result, the skin must be sound to such extent that it can properly cover the place of the removed part, and swelling of the neighbouring glands, or the signs of general can- cerous dyscrasy must not in general forbid every operation. The hope of a favourable issue is greatest in sarcomatous degeneration of the jaw, but it is doubtful in all cancerous affections. Only under the above-stated conditions of the skin and glands can cancerous dege- neration be considered as indicating this operation; but they are very rare ; and so far is Jaeger’s (a) opinion correct, who, although the cases of Dupuytren, von Graefe, Fricke, and others favour undertaking this operation for cancer, considers that in general it is contraindicated. Necrosis of the lower-jaw, if unaccompanied with caries, must not he held to indicate the operation ; for with proper treatment the dead piece of bone will be thrown off (2) or may be removed, for I have in several instances taken away more than half and in one case nearly the whole lower-jaw. j [(1) As will be presently seen, Deadrick was the first who, in 1810, cut away the side of the lower jaw; in 1812, Dupuytren sawed off a large portion of the front of the jaw ; in 1816, Anthony White removed half a necrosed jaw from the socket; in 1818, Astley Cooper sawed of the projecting part of the chin; in 1821, Graefb removed the front of the jaw, and in the same year, one-half of the lower jaw, which he exarticulated, and the patient lived; Mott's first operation, in which half the jaw was removed, by sawing through the chin and across the ascending branch, "as performed in March, 1822; his second, in which he exarticulated one-half, in May, 1822, died on the evening of the fourth day. Cusack removed the left half of the jaw in 1825, first sawing through the horizontal and afterwards the ascending branch, and then exarticulating the condyle. These several cases will be referred to present y. I have thought it well to give this brief historical account of the amputations of the lower jaw, the authorities for which the reader can refer to; because the French elairm excision of the jaw for Dupuytren, and the Americans, exarticulation of the jaw tor Mott ; hut neither of these justly-celebrated Surgeons have title to the origination, or to the first performance of either operation, and their reputation will lose nothing by thei jistmeed of merit being awarded to others, of whom, probably, their too ardent ad-^ mirers had no cognizance. . . , I regret I have no particulars, nor am able to obtain any particulars, but 1 naie a perfect recollection of a case of my late colleague, Tyrrell’s, about ten or fifteen ycare since in which a man, who had been very severely salivated, had necrosis of the whole lower-iaw • the right branch and the chin had come away before his admission into our hospital, and the left came away whilst he remained m the house. The jaw separated on both sides from the joint. He was not much disfigured by the exfoliation but haa the appearance of a person the horizontal branches of whose jaw were very shorty the chin very receding, his mouth was much pursed up, the skin of the chm PucktJV and the upper lip much overhanging the lower. Ills speech was not very material j affected.—J. F. S.] («) Rust’s Handbuch dcr Cliirurgie, vol. vi. p. 303.