36 OPERATION FOR enlarge the external wound after the sac has been opened, and before the division of the stricture can be made. . , . , In femoral, umbilical, and other ruptures, it is not needful to extend the cu beyond the swelling, because the flaps usually made either by the J. or ciucial cut, afford ample space for the continuauce of the operation. J. F. S.J 1170. The exposure of the sac requires care, as the coverings are very different, and in old ruptures considerably degenerated. At the part where protected from any other injury, or where fluctuation is most distinct from the fluid contained in the sac, the coverings must be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, raised up in a heap, and divided with the bistoury held flat (1) ; this is to be repeated till the sac is laid bare, which is known by its shining surface (2). The blood flowing from these cuts must be carefully absorbed with a sponge. The hernial sac itself should be raised in a similar manner, and cut into, from this opening a little fluid usually escapes • for though the omentum be fallen over the surface of the intestine, the shiny ness and smoothness of the sac show the practitioner that he has penetrated its cavity (3). The edge of this opening is to be raised with the forceps, and enlarged with blunt-ended scissors, till a finger can be intro- duced into it, upon which the scissors (4), or button-ended bistoury, should be introduced, and the opening of the sac increased upwards and outwards throughout its whole length (5). If on opening the hernial sac, an adherent part be lighted on, the opening must be enlarged at some other part, till the Aimer can be introduced, to destroy the adhesion, if it be gelatinous, or if membranous, to divide it with the knife. In firmer fleshy adhesions, we must proceed as will be hereafter mentioned (6). If after these appearances, it be doubted whether the sac be opened °r “V“J? swelling is to be pinched up with the thumb and forefinger into a fold, and that he between Them gradually allowed to escape, when it is distinctly felt whether there be merely intestine or tlie hernial sac also. . , , i . i_ rri) In dividing the coverings of the sac, I prefer, after the skin has been ^mpletely cut through, scratching with the end of the probe or director, till a layer of the cdlu ^ tissue be penetrated, tnd then introducing the director and dividing upon it; after which a second and other layers are to be divided in similar way, even to the opening of the sac itself. This is much safer than nipping up with the forceps and opening wUh the knife laid horizontally, which, however, cautiously used, may, in opening the s itself, risk the puncture of the intestine; an accident which once occurred to myself, Wl(2) Thermal ^ac cannot always be distinguished by its shining appearance, for f occasionally it is thick and opake, especially after long wearing a truss; and 1 h. atrain and again seen the sac opened when the Surgeon supposed lie was having; reached it. Also if, as in rare cases, it happen that the sac and its contents g together more or less completely, this distinction does not hold. f3) The most certain proof of the sac being opened, is the escape of the fluid m. greater or less quantity contained in it, -which is proportioned generally - of time the patient has had the rupture, and also of the existence of ^angulahon. It, is a most satisfactory indication of the course of the operation, b^ Ae Surg^ ^ o{ pxnect always to have it. During the course of the last few months 1 strangulated rupture, in which not a drop of fluid escaped when the sac was opened. Thf colour of the fluid escaping, when the sac is cut into, varies considerably, sometimes it is almost colourless, sometimes red as blood, and Caixau ay instance hi which even a clot of blood was found in the sac; the case, however,.hd well f4> i prefer the director and knife to the scissors, and throw aside even 1 th( immediately the aperture is sufficiently large to admit the finger, whicl ‘ 3 lwst guide lor the knife, and the greatest protection to the contents ot the - • rr,f There is no need, as already mentioned in regard to the external wou , pc* the sac down to its bottom ; but it must be divided up to the stricture. . th, Whenever an artery is disposed to bleed, if divided whilst cut g several coverings, it is better at once to tie it, as the bleeding often causes confusion. J.F.S.]