(a) Essaies sur l'Anatomie I’atliologiquc en gr-iuJrnl, vol. i. p. 306. Paris, 1316. Third Section.—COLLECTIONS OF DISEASED PRODUCTS. I.—OF DROPSY OF THE MUCOUS SACS. (Hydrops bursarum mucosarum, Lat.; Wassersucht der Sclileimbeutel, Germ.; /. dropisie des Bourses muqveuses, Fr.) Koch, C. M., Untersuchung des natiirlichen Baues und der Krankheiten der Schlebdi beutel. Niirnberg, 1795. 8vo. Monro, Alexander, M.D. (secnndus.) A Description of all the Bursae Mucosae. > the Human Body, &c. Edinburgh, 1788. fol. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, Pathological and Surgical Observations on the Diseases a the Joints. London, 1834. 8vo. Third Edition. Schreger, B. G., De Bursis mucosis subcutaneis ; cum ix. tab. Erlang., 1825. f( Mayo, Herbert, Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 110. London, 1836. 8vo. 1869. Dropsy of a mucous sac produces a swelling, fluctuating, pect liarly elastic, in general not, but sometimes very painful; most general) occurring on the hip- knee- ankle- wrist- elbow- and shoulder-joints, an., having the skin over it of its natural colour. At first it is circumscribe! • and does not extend over the whole joint; its extent, however, may 1 very considerable. [Mayo says:—“ The bursa situated between the latissimas dorsi and the inferiorang of the scapula, is liable to become distended with a very considerable quantity of fluid, (p. 111.) He also observes, that “pressure will cause the developement of subci taneous bursa in the cellular tissue, where they previously had no existence.” (jib.) Tb is the comman opinion, but it must be taken with some caution, as the number of niucoc bags just beneath the skin is much greater than commonly supposed, so that one of ther originally existing, may only have become dropsical, and then first only have attracte. notice. There seems, however, little doubt that they are actually produced sometime when a part is subject to great pressure.—J. F. S.] 1870. This disease may be produced by external violence, by sprainim the joint, or by pressure ; or by cold, rheumatic, gouty or scrofulous disease, * and after the frequent use of mercury. The cause of the unnatural col lection appears to be always an inflammatory condition of the inner mem brane of the mucous sac, which corresponds in its physiological and patho- logical nature to synovial membrane. This inflammation is at first oftei very great, and appears to be related to the cause on which it depends The fluid is mostly thin, sometimes more consistent, jelly-like, and oftei. contains a great number of cartilaginous concrements, of whitish colour, smooth surface, and different size, often felt distinctly on examination ol the joint, and made up of coagulated albumen. The membrane of the mucous sac is often very much thickened, and nearly cartilaginous. I the swelling be highly inflamed, it may run on to suppuration, the pus mat be poured out beneath the skin, and considerable destruction and fistulous passages may ensue. This is very frequently the case upon the front o 1 the knee-joint. j Undoubtedly here belongs a peculiar kind of encysted swelling, described by , veluier (a), which is most frequent on the front of the wrist, less so upon its bac ’ jai more rarely at the ankle-joint, but always occurring in the neighbourhood ™ h capsules and tendons, most commonly divided into two halves connected witn, nu