257 GLUTEAL, ISCHIATIC, AND PUDIC ARTERIES. In this way Stevens proceeded, and this operation is most proper and safe. White tade a semicircular cut seven inches long, beginning two inches from the navel, and antinuing it nearly down to the external inguinal ring. According to Anderson and Bujalsky, the cut should be begun a finger’s breadth aove the upper front spine of the hip-bone, or even higher, and half an inch distant om Poupart’s ligament, but continued parallel to it for about three inches towards le share-bone. Cutting through the three abdominal muscles, separation of the perilo- cum and retracting it together with the spermatic cord upwards. [The following are the particulars of Owen’s dissection (a) of Stevens’ case. The oman died ten years after the internal iliac artery had been tied. The internal iliac •tery had become impervious at the part where the ligature had been applied, and “ the o-lumbar appears to have arisen just above this point, the obliteration in consequence id not extended to the origin of the external iliac. In the state of a ligamentous cord, e internal iliac descended towards the ischiatic notch for the space of an inch, and en suddenly resuming its natural diameter it again became pervious, and so continued r the extern of half an inch; the gluteal artery arising from the lower part of this ace; a sacro-lateral vessel from about the middle; and the obturator artery from the 'Per Part °f it* The latter vessel was, however, entirely obliterated, but the sacro- eral artery was pervious, of the size of a crow quill, and passed inwards to the second iraljoramen,; whilst the gluteal artery, of its natural size, received close to its origin 0 vessels as large as the preceding, given off from the sacro-lateral artery, near the rd and fourth sacral foramina of the left side. The anastomoses of the sacro-lateral :enes with each other and the sacro-median were large and tortuous. Immediately er the origin of the gluteal artery, the ischiatic, obliterated and cord-like, passed on the lower part of the ischiatic notch; the sanatory processes set on foot by the appli- i°n of„the hgature being uninterrupted by the enfeebled current of blood passing m small canals to a large one. Many vessels met with in the course of the dissection the glutcBiis maximus and medius were found to have received the injection The itaeal artery was in a healthy condition, and of the natural size; but an elongated ’ sUuated between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter indicated .ve twn d, tel *ef ongma' disease This tumour in length three inches and a half, and „n 0 lands °f an inch m breadth, was of the sciatic artery, and consisted of layers mfltt nCM Celllulfr membrane and the peculiar fibrous arterial coat. It contained a wefthef£'^ 0Urrd gra™iar not lamellated coagulum, which, when removed, , the internal surface of the sac to be somewhat irregular and raised in small mCter>of lLdarte-in7l — S°ft J“ £°me places U aPPeared to retain the smooth rl wL l h imteHd hnmg membrane. From the ischiatic notch to the tumour, the °blltel;ated’ lts texture altered and the remains of the cavity filled iic and pa,-tly ®alrreous matter* From the lower part of the tumour the He arteiy was continued down the posterior part of the thigh of an uncommon size rly as large as the femoral artery in front; its calibre did not, howeve^on esncTd b the apparent magnitude, for its coats were thicker, by at least one-half thananv )w the Jo Sami6 if26 Wlth ltSC‘lf' It: was obliterated for about the space of an inch via vrofunda6' Pervi°Jis after receiving an anastomosing vessel from the rihntinir k , ^ vessel lamifymg between the glutceus maximus and medius and n wS ST1®3 t°t 'fSe muscles- was connected to the commencement of the sac “7"cb lth bad probably arisen; it did not, however, open into the sac bu after Bratus femn^ the p,0I.nt of attachment, it there gave off a small artery to the ; erficial branch oTtheTlnte-fl b °°d Aby anastomosing near the crista i/ufwith a I er part of the ® gt[a aiteiy. A smaller vessel was similarly attached to the 1 the sac tvnSR fl°m branches ramifying in the neighbourhood was diverted y Sma blancb given off at the point of attachment.” (p. 222-25.)] made Thro* ^u,[eal "rJcrV ls to be tied, a cut three inches long should I dCTOT)ine°oF the^h’ S^“ “d fIlular tissue’ commencing at the ,1 great eluteal^m nPi'b0,ne’ and camed in the direction of the fibres1 of and middWwJi6’ fdS the g,reat trochant^'. The fibres of the lower edo-e ofthr r m.uscles aTe to be divided in the same direction, to arm g . * hlP'bone and the artery found. hmichael (4) tied the gluteal artery, for spurious aneurysm, by a penknife wound 101. n, r- Trans- v°b xvi- (i) Dublin Joum., vol. iv. p. 231,1833.