758 MULLER AND HODGKIN’S up surface. With further development the reticulated figures readily flow into irregulai —+V\nr> Vine coma rpcpiTi hi a n op tn flip first annoaranou rv up suna.ce. vv 1111 luruier ucvciopmcut iuc ...w.wvgujai white spots; their appearance then has some resemblance to the first appearance o white tubercles in the gray basal substance. Carcinoma alveolare exhibits an irregular knobby surface, and as the base of the . substance, a tissue of endless, crossing, very firm, white fibres and plates, between whicl simple cells are found, from the size of grains of sand to that of the largest peas which are closed, but frequently communicate with the neighbouring cells, and all con i tain a very viscid pale, very transparent jelly. Under the microscope the little celk; s are seen to enclose still smaller cells, and these again contain still less. On the little; ' cells the dusky-yellowish nucleus of its wall is plainly seen. Many cells also contain r< simple nuclei loose in their interior. The large cells are distinctly fibrous in their walls r and the fibres pass from one cell to another. ** Carcinoma fasciculatum is distinguished by its throughout fibrous structure, whicl may be seen either by breaking or cutting through it. The tumour may be easily ton in the direction of the fibres, is not thereby crumbled, and under the microscope showrtff neither the cell globules of other carcinomata, nor the tailed bodies of the seemingly fibrous medullary fungus. The arrangement of the fibres is either tuft-like, and them the fibres can be torn into simple radical bundles, of which the points are dirwee towards the bottom and their base towards the irregular surface, or the bundles forn different sets of fibrous expansions. Whole masses of fibres form one tuft, othen- different tufts. The large bundles of fibres thrust through each other, as is seen oi tearing them asunder. In this case the swelling readily forms large and small lobe upon the surface and even in the interior. Between the lobes membranous partition! pass, to which the tufts of the fibrous substance are attached. Sometimes it is seen bon the fibrous substance arises on a membranous surface, protrudes like a sheaf, then torn: an arch above and again attaches itself to another membranous wall, t hese lobuiai throughout fibrous tumours often acquire considerable size. But the lobular form ma; be entirely wanting, and the whole swelling consist of a single tuft of radically arrange!, fibres. These swellings are very vascular, and the vessels have a straight course si to the fibres. The substance of the swelling is sometimes transparent like jelly. fibres are throughout pale and transparent; their surface is here and there beset as u tm[DUr.eHotqkin fa) considers scirrhous to originate, like other malignant growths, ^ cysts, either of a simple or compound character, and has given the following e account of their development and progress:— „ <™.tion 0 “ Scirrhous tumours have a more or less rounded form. On making t • them they present various appearances, but are all more or less dividedby sep , affect sometimes a radiated form, and at others a cellular character. Both of these cn^ affect sometimes a radiated torm, and at otners a ceiiumi ~ , diffcr racters have been insisted on by many writers on this subject; but I ^lteveth » ences which have been observed in many instances depended on the B rec on the sections were made. * * * If we carefully dissect down te the smface o the sections were made. " - ~ n we ouemuj . ,.. w U { of these tumours, we shall usually find that it has a capsule or covering, whicb^ ^ believe, generally been supposed to consist of the altered and com i qq,;s jdc: brane of the parts which have given way before the growth of the■ tmnouir. ^ _ bu is probably correct with respect to the unequally thick externali par I t 0f?decay ha: is probably correct with respect to the unequally hulk lxiliiuu pan, ' hai A if we dissect carefully, and examine those tumours m which thedhxd aithar not commenced, or has made very little progress, we shall fin * - . . ^ . . /» ionH pvph ana Oil raiMUK *• . J either not commenced, or has maue very muc T it is next to the mass of the tumour more or less smooth and even, an ‘ "which i*' find that it is reflected over one or more pyriform bodies, attached by a * pnCiosim generally narrow or peduncular, to some part of the circumference o ^vera capsule. Unless the tumour is very small, it is much more common to b rather than a single body of this kind, and as there is often little, if any, the;, ing between them and the enclosing capsule, their form is somewhat mmiitiea J ^ mutual pressure. Sometimes, though more or less closely applied to oac" ° nt]v. b. pedunculated bodies are perfectly detached at their sides, and C3nck.s. A readily traced to the point which forms the common origin of their pw»u ^er other times these bodies are so adherent amongst themselves, and the: men ‘ ^ o inn them is so tender and delicate, that without very great care the arra* ^ their structure may be overlooked, in consequence of the P^d.unc“Kte^e 0f forma broken or torn through in a different direction from that to which their ® tion would naturally aispose them. It must be sufficiently obvious that the apF presented by the section of a tumour, such as I have just described, m 1 hJorncai riall v affected by the direction in which the section is made. If it pass i * (a) Above cited.