CANCER OF THE BREAST. 784 Vacher, Dissertation sur le Cancer du Sein. Besam;on, 1740. Pali.ucci, N. J., Nouvelles Remarques sur la Lithotome, suiyies, &c., et sur l’Ampu- J tations des Mammelles. Paris, 1750. 3vo. De IIaupville, La Guerison du Cancer au Sein. Rouen, 1793. Adams, Observations on Cancerous Breast. London, 1803. Rudtorffer, Abhandlung liber die Operationsmethoden_sengesperrter Leisten uudi Schenkelbriiche, vol. i. p. 122, vol. ii. p. 334. Bell, Charles, On the Varieties of Diseases comprehended under the name of a Carcinoma Mammae ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 713. Cooper, Astley, Lectures on Surgery, by Tyrrell, vol. ii. p. 175. , Illustrations of the Diseases of the Breast. London, 1829. 4to. Benedict, Bemerkungen iiber die Krankheiten der Brust und Achseldriisen..4 Breslau, 1825. Cumin, V., A general view of the Diseases of the Mamma, with cases of some of the b more important affections of that gland; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,^ ti vol. xxvii. p. 225. 1827. Brodie, Sir B. C., Lectures on Pathology and Surgery, above cited. 2441. The breast-gland is most commonly affected with scirrlius; but in men this occurs very rarely. As to its origin and progress, all that i has been said generally on cancer of glands applies ; its development and ; ’ course, however, present some differences. 2442. Most commonly a hard lump, round and movable, arises with- < out any previous cause, or after a blow, a squeeze, or the like; as it j grows it becomes irregular and knobby ; a second and third lump is pro- duced, which seem connected together by strings of hardened cellular ■ tissue. As these several lumps enlarge, they become molten into each other and with the gland, and spread especially towards the arm-pit. - Passing, lancinating pains set in, which are not increased by pressure, and spread towards the shoulder, and over the arm. As the swelling in- ; creases, and the pain becomes more severe, they attack the skin, which | assumes a channeled, scar-like appearance, and the sebaceous glands are i often filled with a black substance. The skin becomes attached to the < tumour, which rises considerably at one point, reddens, and thins; the ; veins swell, the nipple retracts, and instead of a prominence, exhibits a hollow. The skin at last breaks, and an ulcer forms, spreading in every j direction, with hard, dusky red, glossy edges, and having a foul, sloughy bottom, though not with any very copious and offensively-smelling: I discharge ; the ulcer is rather a deep cleft, without any fungous ex- 1 crescences. The glands in the arm-pit, on the collar-bone, and *,e neighbourhood, swell up, if they have not so previously. At this time, often even earlier, before the breast has broken, the patient complains !l of rheumatic pains in different parts, especially in the loins and thighs. ^ nutrition is much affected ; the countenance assumes a peculiar ba • j earthy appearance, the arm of the affected side swells, and can no longer I be moved from the body, and death follows, under the symptoms of hec ic > consumption already described. . . This form of cancer of the breast is sometimes developed with a sci ^ rhous inflammation, under which the whole breast swells; or there been previous long existent hardening, or a milk-knot assumes the rhous degeneration. (hfre . [Brodie divides “ scirrhous tumours of the breast into two classes: one * fT® there , is a conversion of the gland of the breast itself into the scirrhous stru >