TREATMENT. 151 motion is accompanied with a certain degree of curvature and wasting so may sharp irritants, vesicatories, and even moxas, act beneficially’ in quickening and increasing the vitality, which remedies are especially indicated in actual palsy. In reference to this object, kneading, rubbing and stretching the muscles, are very serviceable;' but above all, suitable gymnastics, (with careful regard to the somewhat necessary improvement of the general state of health,) as first introduced by Delpech (a) Slighter degrees of curvature may be got rid of by these remedies alone but it the curvature be greater, they must be accompanied with the appli- cation of suitable machines and apparatus. 1 * * * * 1332. If with long-continued curvature from shortening of the muscles such change of their tissue have been produced, that by the treatment proposed it can be removed either with extreme difficulty, or not at all the subcutaneous cutting through the shortened muscles, or their tendons and aponeuroses, (myotomia, tenotomia,) if possible, is the most proper remedy. Between the two ends of the divided tendon which retract the upper more strongly than the lower, blood is effused, which coagulates and unites with the whole internal surface of the wound, and especially with the ends of the tendon. Exudations of plastic lymph soon occur particularly from the ends of the tendon, presenting whitish thread-like streaks, running from one to the other, and gradually form a mass resembling fibrous tissue, which is capable of due extension, and suffi ciently strong to answer the function of the muscles. This operation is thereto S'A. U"der. the ^-^ioned conditio^ if there do not at the same time exist such considerable chances in the the causes giving rise to the contraction, gout for instance’ stil . I as observed in every scar as well .c.“«vviy ioimeci inter’substance, and motions of the part from ev, the natural direction i exfoliation of tendons and sn n +x uescraCblon ot the cellular tissue, ili Peculiar relations oftheconstLtXnFtl B aSOTibed rather to ” !" the operation and the after-treatment* ttZZthf I rhe straightening of the part anrl ♦ u- I , °Peratlon itself, ^apparatus, is most nronerlv nn sti etching of the tendons by proper l cut through, X„ Ptl?n , rn”1 -°T ^ after they Wve bee,, ■bandage covering the cart keen! ^°und ,s llealed, to which time a light I*uf extension immediate,' after th Pr0Per position. The employment I of the the two hn- Too late use of extensimF Jtf ’ l d.bad symPtoms may be brought | :rained fi™ness, renders the lengthen^ diffioX™6^?6 Substance has a ‘ The division of shortened muscles^ n i * ltj aiK GVen lmpossible. (n) lie l'Orthomorphie par rapport r - , ^ emPloyed on the m. sterno- e par rapport a 1 espece humaine, &e. 1828. Paris and Montpe.lier, 2 vols. J 1