181 DIVISION OF TENDONS. whole heel. On the inner part of this parabolic spring is a padded strap, which is drawn over the back of the foot and fastened to a stud on its outside. A horizontal spring is continued from the outside of the parabolic one to the tip of the foot, around which it is fastened by a padded strap. At the hind end of this spring is a strap fastened to a stud on the inside of the parabolic one; aud from the outside of the latter a moderately curved spring, with its concave surface towards the leg, ascends up to the region of the knee, and is connected with the parabolic spring by a rivet in form of a y. Two padded straps serve for fastening it to the leg above the ankle and below the knee, which, by means of pieces of tin and screws, can be variously attached to the vertical spring. Scarpa’s machine is similar to that proposed by Delpech (a). To it must be given merited praise and preference above all others (b) (2). Besides those mentioned, a number of machines and apparatus have been proposed, of which mention can only be made. Hippocrates’ laced boot; the apparatus of Pare, Hildanus, and Haar; the machines of Venel Brunninghausen (c), of Autenrieth, of Blomer (d), of Delacroix, and others. [(2) Scarpa’s shoe is a very good instrument when the varus is not great, but it will effect no benefit in a bad case; nor will any other; and division of the tendon, or :endons, will be requisite to produce a cure. I may mention, that where I have seen it lsed, the child walks on his heels, and in spite of the spring, the gait is that which is so .veil known as resulting from what is called pigeon toe.—J. F. S.] 1377. The subcutaneous division of the tendons for the more speedy •estoration of the position of the foot especially applies to the Achilles’ endon, the tendon of the m. tibialis anticus, and the plantar fascia. The Achilles’ tendon generally offers the greatest hindrance to the proper lirection of the foot; its division alone is in many cases sufficient, or only n the after-treatment is the necessity for the division of the other tendons declared; often, however, on first examination the necessity for the simul- laneous division of both is shown by the great stretching which the other mdons present. Besides those mentioned, I have, even in the most vere degree of club-foot, never found it necessaiy to divide any other, 3S r i n ) to rp - — -J ' — " J l/vy VAA T AVIV/ IA.IJ J KJ blIV/1 y though the division of the tendons of the m. tibialis posticus and of the flexor longus pollicis have been considered necessary and performed others; and Stromeyer, who has frequently cut through the tendon the m. tibialis posticus, himself admits that from the result of his ^ bservations on the division of this tendon no decisive influence upon the 'storation of the form and function of club-foot is to be ascribed to it. 1378. The division of the Achilles’ tendon is performed most simply id effectually in the following manner. The patient is laid upon his illy, the leg held by one assistant and the foot pressed in its natural rection by another, so that the Achilles’ tendon may be tightly strained id very prominent; the thumb and forefinger of the left hand are then 1 be placed on both sides of the tendon to fix it and the skin coverino- and then a narrow slightly.convex and pointed bistoury (1), held flat, is be thrust in at the inner side of the tendon and directly behind it, about ‘'o inches above the heel, beneath the skin, without penetrating it on the iter side, and then the edge of the knife being turned towards the ten- cuts it through (whilst the flat of the thumb of the left hand placed >n lie tendon presses it against the edge) with one or more strokes, tiiout injuring the skin. At the moment of the complete division of e tendon a crack is heard, the two ends of the tendon separate more or . W! e y .asunder, and the foot inclines in the same proportion to its • ura position. As soon as the knife is withdrawn slight pressure e cited, pi. v. vi. vii. Orthomorphie, riV'*uul-AUBon,; in Gr,tt- Anzcig., 1799, 713» p. 2049 ; 1B01, p. 1321. ciJ vol. XV. p. (c) Richter's Chirurg. Bililiothek, 5Gb. pi. i. f. 1, 2, 3. (jj) 5- RRuns, Dissert, de talipede varo. Berol., 182/.