674 EXOSTOSIS; deposited ; sometimes the interior of the swelling presents rather a lami nated structure, sometimes the hardness of the exostosis is greater tha that of the healthy bone; it presents in its interior a regular compact mas like ivory, and is either smooth upon its surface or has distinct studdings I To these must he certainly considered to belong those bony tumours which Astle Cooper has described as Cartilaginous Exostosis of the Medullary Membrane; Scarpa (e 1 as Exostosis maligna; Otto (b) and von Waether (c) as Osteosteatoma; Jony Muller (d) has described it most minutely in all its relations, as Enchondron (Sarcorn *i aartilagineum, Tumor cartilagineus.) He speaks of a good kind of swelling of th bone, or even of the soft parts; for instance, of the glands, which form a spheroids ! tumour, not lobulated, and acquiring the size of a fist, or larger. When in th’ soft parts it has a thin covering of cellular tissue, but in bone, where it occurs mo> frequently, it appears like a soft expansion of the bone overspread with periosteum, th expansion being either developed from within, with a bladder-like expansion of thta thinned shell of the bone ; or more rarely it appears to be produced from the exterio ; of the bone, and then is not necessarily enveloped in a bony shell. In the former cas-i the bladder-like expansion of the periosteum forms a sort of shell, enclosing the sol - mass ; sometimes there are merely single, isolated, insular, thin patches of bone. Th joint-surfaces of the bone are generally in this disease either not at all or but littl changed ; even when a phalanx of the finger enlarges to a tumour of the size of a lemoi and round, the joint-surfaces usually continue natural. The parts over the swelling ii i general remain unaltered, although they be much expanded. Now and then the slov painless development of the tumour, as well as the constitution continuing healthy for ten or twenty years, lead to the notion that the swelling is not malignant. The content of the tumour are soft, in and upon the bone in general, with interwoven projections o • spongy substance, which, however, may be entirely deficient. The parenchyma o the tumour usually presents, on being cut into, two elementary parts, distinguishable with the naked eye, of fibro-membranous, and a gray slightly transparent substance: similar to cartilage or tough jelly. The fibro-membranous part, which is rarely want- ing, forms small or large cells, of the size of peas, or larger ; and in the larger, smaller cells are often developed. In their cavities is a grayish, rather transparent substancer distiuguished from cartilage by its softness, and rather resembling the soft hyaline, oi glass-like cartilage, existing in some fishes, and sometimes even like tough jelly. This substance may be easily shelled out of the cavities, and can be readily broken up. When put in spirit of wine it still retains its slightly transparent character. The more transparent cartilaginous substance is massed together by partitions of membranous structure, and such conglomeration is peculiar to the enchondrom, and does not occur in other swellings of bone. If the mass seem free on the surface little elevations are noticed, which show the conglomeration externally. Microscopic examination shows' that the fibro-membranous part consists of transparent net-like fibres; the glassy mass, completely resembles cartilage, and exhibits oval, round, semi-transparent cartilaginous corpuscles spread about in it. After boiling from ten to twelve hours, the enchondrv*• of bone gives out a considerable quantity of gluten, which, on cooling, becomes well gelatinized, but in its chemical properties is entirely different from common gluten colla, but on the contrary, agrees with the peculiar gluten of cartilaginous fishes, the) cartilage gluten, or chondrin, described by Muller. The chemical examination of the. enchondrom of soft parts presents a difference, as on boiling the common chondrin, but then even no chondrin contains, on the contrary, a considerable quantity of jellying gluten. Usually the existence of enchondrom proceeds from external causes, as bnnsesi and the like, and this happens most commonly in childhood. I have, however, seen i in the metacarpal bone of the thumb of an aged man, in whom it first arose at a late period, and whose cure was permanent after its extirpation. A general cause of tn disease is ordinarily not to be found, although tumours of this kind often occurring 10 different parts may lead to such conclusion, but the cure is usually permanent an® amputation. I have noticed this also after the removal of an enchondrom of the testic , and in the upper third of the upper arm. The development of enchondrom is in general without pain, and may so arise and continue increasing for a long while. If ^rom,|^« cause inflammation be set up in the swelling, it proceeds to suppuration, the swell g bursts, and the bone becomes necrotic. (a) De Expansione Ossitim, &c. ; in his lie Physiologic, und Pathologie gehorig, P- 22 Anatome et Pathologifi Ossimn Comraentarii. 182-!. , „ . . , , „„„nhcilkunde, Ticini, 1827. 4to. Ce) Journal furChirurgie and Augenhe ( 61 Neue Soltonc Beobachtungen air Anatomic, vol. xiii. part iii. (cl) Above cited, p. 31.