CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 590 the lithotome is first a little sunk and the handle raised, till it has pass-: 4 beyond the curved part of the staff, when the handle is sunk and the poi ; j a little raised. The knife is withdrawn in the same direction. [Thomas Blizard, who was a very able operator, after opening the groove of t staff in the usual way, divided the prostate gland, laterally, hy means of a narrow a bladed knife, about four inches long, and having a beak inclined at an angle towards t r. right side of the blade. (I am informed by his nephew Stanley, that he never los n patient from bleeding, after this operation.) Astley Cooper, also, for a time used < long-beaked knife, but with the beak projected directly forward ; the greater number operations, however, which 1 saw him perform were done with the single-cutting gorg-; He was, however, as Tyrrell observes, “ fond of variety,” and I have seen hi. * operate with both single and double cutting and blunt gorgets, as well as with the kni Tyrrell always used the straight-beaked knife for dividing the prostate gland. 1 1 was a very able and successful lithotomist, and thus describes his operation (a) “ T staff is first introduced, and should well fill the urethra; the larger it is the better, you have the advantage of a deeper groove. The staff is then firmly held by ; assistant, and the bulb of the penis is made to project a very little towards the left gic- I now take the double-edged scalpel, make an incision through the integuments ai fascia of the perinceum on the left side of the raphe, commencing at the point jt beneath the lower edge of the symphysis, at the place where the urethra begins curve under the arch of the pubes', and continue it downwards and outwards to opposi1 the middle of the anus, between it and the tuberosity of the ischium. If you beg above the place just mentioned, it cannot be of any service in extracting the stone, next make an incision into the groove of the staff, as near as possible to its median lin because I think the danger of haemorrhage from the transverse artery of the perinau or any other artery is less in proportion to the distance you are from its origin soon as I have laid open the urethra and carried the knife into the groove, I introduf the nail of the forefinger of my left hand and satisfy myself that the knife is properl within the groove, although you may feel pretty confident of it by the sensation pr, duced in rubbing the knife in the staff. Then incline the edge of the knife a litt outwards, and carry it on nearly to the prostate gland, then I carry it down deeply mi the perinceum, in the direction of the first incision, to divide the deep muscles there as withdraw the knife. I then lay aside the scalpel, and take Astley Cooper s Ion straight knife in my right hand, take hold of the staff firmly with my left, and the introduce the beak of the knife fairly within the groove, keep it well against the stale and carry it onwards, following the curve of the staff, into the bladder. . The knili having entered the bladder, I give the staff to an assistant to hold steadily in the san position, and introduce my finger on the surface of the rectum, under the point of the kmf which I can then feel in the bladder, and divide the prostate, as I withdraw the knifi in the direction of the former incision, letting its probe point rest on my finger, whio is at this time protecting the rectum from injury. If I operate on a child, where tt perinceum is shallow, I introduce my finger into the bladder and feel the stone, an then withdraw the staff and introduce the forceps on the finger. But if the pennant is deep, I introduce the forceps with the blades a little open, and glide one blade alon the groove of the staff, upon which it very readily finds its way into the bladder, an rests upon the stone, which I then grasp, by deliberately opening the blades ot a forceps, and cautiously withdraw it.” (pp. 637, 38.) To this account of 1 mode of operating I may add, that in introducing and withdrawing the beaked km e, did not hold the blade vertical, but with its sides inclining a little upwards and downj wards, so that the edge was turned somewhat outwards, and the knife seemed to lea *1 the wound after dividing the prostate almost flat.—J. F. S.] 2082. The cut having been made in one of these ways, the fing?r 1 passed through the wound into the bladder, the staff removed, and, if tji' * . P .1 n * x 1 I £iirr*»r_ TOl* cut be sufficiently large, the forceps are introduced upon the finger, 101 the purpose of drawing forth the stone without much bruising and teanng of the edges of the wound ; but if the cut be too small, it must be enlarged* carefully and slowly, with the finger, the forceps, or some special dda ory or with a button-ended bistoury, according to the direction of the ou 1 2083. This mode of operating is the most simple of all; the operaton (n) Clinical Lectures on Stone in the Nlailder; in Lancet, 1823-24, vol. ii.