SUPPORTING BANDAGES. Ill [When the prolapse is so great that the globular pessary, which Clarke thinks is the best, will not be retained, neither can be kept in the vagina by any common bandage, he recommends “ a pessary to be chosen of the size which the case requires, and a small i slip of brass to be attached to it by its two ends, leaving a space between the instrument and the centre of this piece of brass; a belt of leather, long enough to go round the patient's body, is also to be prepared; to the centre of which behind, a brass wire, as thick as a common quill, is to be attached by a screw. This wire is now to be properly bent, and the pessary being introduced into the vagina, the wire is to be passed between the pessary and the piece of brass attached to it; and being brought up between the thighs, it is to be attached to the fore part of the circular strap. The reduced parts are by this i means supported by a pessary, and this is kept in its place by the unyielding piece of imetal.” (p. 127.)] 1278. The use of the pessary is frequently accompanied with much inconvenience, as it causes pain, inflammation, stinking discharge, suppu- ration, and even degeneration of the generative organs; in many cases it cannot be worn, and in many the prolapse cannot be kept up for any time(l). In such cases the only help consists in an organic narrowing of the vagina with or without excision of its walls, by means of the suture, Elijthroraphy, (Hall, Berard,) Colpodesmoraphy, (Bellini,) or by junction of the labia by means of the suture, Episioraphy, (Fricice,) or by the introduction of a ring (2). [(1) The use of pessaries has of late years gone much out of fashion, on account of the many inconveniences which they cause; and in their stead many of our' leading accoucheurs prefer the use of a modified X bandage upon the belly and perinccum. Among these, Dr. Hull’s utero-abdominal supporter is perhaps the most known and commonly used in this country ; and I have seen it employed very successfully several times in my own hospital patients, for whom it has been prescribed by our obstetric physicians. It does not appear certain that Hull was the real inventor of this bandage; at least, one very similar to it had been long previously made by Sheldrake of Lei- cester Square, and another and more simple had been invented many years before by King, a Surgeon at Clifton. I am not aware, however, that any good explanation of the way in which such bandages act had been given, till Hull brought out his appa- ratus. He considers “ Prolapsus Uteri, not as a displacement of the womb merely, but as a loss of that perfect equilibrium between the upper and lower portions of the abdomen which is essential to the preservation of the relative situations of the viscera it contains, and also a dislocation of the uterus and bladder; and in some cases as especially dependent upon a pouch-like relaxation of the whole perinteal region. His method of cure consists in giving the weakened and relaxed portions of the muscular walls of the abdomen adequate mechanical support, which directly replaces the viscera and gives back to the weakened walls their lost tone ” (a). The apparatus consists of a broad soft elastic pad, covering the whole hypogastric region, upon the middle of which the front end of a spring, like that of a common truss, acts, and from the hind end a strap passes round the opposite side of the body, and astens on the pad. “ The effect of this pad is to give the weakened lower portion of .he abdominal muscles a congenial support, which, at the same time that it diminishes . leir labour, stimulates them by the well-known power of mechanical pressure upon iiiscular tissue, to a permanent renewal of their vigour. It reduces the distended hupo- tastnum, aids the upward forces of the belly, and by its direction, upwards and l/ack- brS’’’ ‘tw re‘,UVeS tie,pelvlC mscera from the unnatural pressure of the downward orces I hat portion of the apparatus above described, is not always “ competent to imes loslim sf 11 CT-S. °f th,s species ?f uterine displacement; the perinccum some- I JS h ',)f US n?uscular and o'-gu'uc contractility, as not to resume its . ensions and situation, even when the downward forces are stayed by the PDaSs'do??; n ^SCS,°f this charactur, although the abdominal support of the Kid flrSl 7* man>: 0f the Stressing sensations of the patient, yet ne distended floor of the pelvis remains a cul-de-sac for the reception of the viscera, (a) This extract. I have taken from “ A brief Vccoun t of the application and uses 0r the CJtero- oslominal Supporter, for relief and cure of Pro- i *T * *«ici uiu cure oi rro 7,7 '" i'n; Pr«lnp*tu Uteri, patented by A t; 117LT,. M II ' T oi./L.m s « i... _ »t uHwjniea uy a. It. 1 ULT,y M.I). London.^ Published by Weiss, of the Strand, who is agent for these bandages. The original pamphlet, published in America about ten years ago, I have in vain endeavoured to pro- cure.—J. F. S.