AWAY THE VAGINAL TUNIC; CONGENITAL HYDROCELE. 507 with them the cure is still less sure. Caustic also acts uncertainly; its operation is slow and painful: incision is therefore to be considered the most sure. Extirpation is to be confined to those cases only where the vaginal tunic is highly disorganized or bony (a). [I have thought it more convenient to notice the advantages and disadvantages of the several modes of treating hydrocele, when describing each method. To these, there- fore, the reader is referred back.—J. F. S.] 1959. Congenital hydrocele (Hydrocele congenita') consists in a collec- tion of water in the canal of the vaginal tunic, which remains open either throughout its whole length, or only at certain parts, in consequence ot which several kinds of hydrocele are formed : first, the canal is open throughout its whole length, and filled with water ; second, the canal is closed above the testicle, and remains open only at the upper part; third, the upper part closes and the water is contained in the lower part, and in the vaginal tunic of the testicle; fourth, the canal is obliterated above and below, and there remains only a bladder-like cavity at one part, which contains water. 1960. If the whole vaginal process of the peritonaum remain open from its orifice in the belly to its bottom, and the water collect in it, a long roundish swelling appears, which reaches from the abdominal ring to the testicle. The testicle is either little, or not at all felt, because it is com- pletely surrounded with water; but, on the contrary, the spermatic cord is distinctly felt along the hind surface of the swelling, though rather more outwards. The possibility of pushing back the fluid, and its return by the abdominal aperture of the vaginal process causes the diminished size or total disappearance of the swelling, in the horizontal posture, or by pressure, and its increase in the upright posture, by exertion, coughing, and the like. This subsidence and reappearance of the swelling does not take place with equal readiness in all cases: if, for instance, the upper part of the vaginal canal be somewhat narrowed, a longer continued pres- sure upon the swelling from below upwards is necessary, in order to force the water back; or it must also be raised somewhat inwards, so as to bring the vaginal process in a right line with the inguinal canal: the water re- tires slowly, and only slowly returns. The natural cure is in these cases not rare. If the disease continue beyond the first month, it becomes larger; sometimes it attains quickly, sometimes slowly, a considerable size. The end of the first twelvemonth’ the third and seventh year, and the period of puberty, have considerable influence on the development and subsidence of this kind of hydrocele. Closely resembling hydrocele of the vaginal process in man, is the congenital hydrocele oj womm, in which, by the collection of water in the peritoneal sheath of the round ligament, a swelling is formed, which passes through the inguinal canal into the lower part of the labium pudendi, and is at first returnable, but afterwards not so (5). 1961. This hydrocele may have already formed in thefcetus, and after- wards become further developed ; but it may first arise after birth, as the vaginal canal often remains open for some time. The circumstance of the vaginal process often remaining a long while open, and no water being co ected in it, proves that the water does not merely flow from the belly mote vaginal process, but that its collection depends on undue propor- >) Tkxtor,above cited.—Kr,kin; in Hcidell Inn - A"n»h. v°l. 11. p. 109.-SrANOKNBF.ua in Urakfk uml Wat.tumi's Journ., vol. ix. p. 1. (6) Saochi ; in Annali Universali de Medicina, vol. lvii. p. 437. 1831.