TYING WITH BELLOCQ'S CANULA. 735 of the nose on the third day, and the hinder plug pulled out by the thread h hanging from the mouth. If there be suppuration in the nostril some ,}, mild decoction may be thrown up. To prevent the recurrence of the polyp astringent injections are gene- rally used. Perhaps a seton in the neck might do good service. If the y polyp grow again the operation must be repeated. 2334. Tying a nasal polyp avoids indeed the danger of bleeding, but t leads to other results, and in my opinion has not the preference over tear- i ing it off, which is given by some practitioners. The application of a .i ligature is indeed, in most cases, accompanied with considerable difficulty, 4 and to the patient with no trifling inconvenience. If the polyp largely fill a ithe cavity of the nostril, the ligature can very seldom be applied suffi- U ciently close to its root; its earlier return after having been tied is there- t fore to be feared, although indeed, in some instances, when the ligature u has not been applied directly on the root, the whole polyp has been thrown off by subsequent inflammation and suppuration. The inflam- K»; mation which occurs after a polyp has been tied, often spreads over the }i whole Schneiderian membrane and the neighbouring parts, and mav pro- i duce serious symptoms. The swelling of the polyp after tying, as well as ic the subsequent discharge of stinking ichor, may give rise to great incon- r.' venience. The peculiar states of the disease, which may specially indicate p*ywg» are; therefore, when the polyp has a broad firm base, when the appli- cation of the forceps is impossible, or when the patient will not submit to jets being torn off. b A pouch-like protrusion of the inner fold of the mucous membrane, if it cannot removed by the use of astringents, or by repeated scarifications, is favourable 1 . not f°r tearing off. Internal disease in connexion with this complaint ' oust have suitable treatment. When this protrusion of the mucous membrane is very ^. xtensive, it is only got rid of with great difficulty, or not at all. Ic: 2335. Of the numerous modes of proceeding which have been recom- » mended for tying nasal polyps, I consider the introduction of the ligature I vith Lellocq’s canula and Desault’s method to be the most preferable T specially applies to polyps at the back of the nostril, and the itter to those m front. The best material for a ligature is a silken f r hempen thread. i th3r Jhe- aPP]ication of a ligature with Bellocq’s canula is managed II U inii ! °7ln° Way :~The Patient having been put in the same position 1 for tearing off the polyp, Bellocq’s tube is passed between the • lot the polyp and the neighbouring wall of the nostril into the throat. £Mtstener|Pr0 ^ °r in ltS eye’ a lon° hernPen or silken thread is , :*V!’ and WIt 1 the instrument drawn back into the nose. After the Between Hip Cer}, °?^ned b'°m the knob, Bellocq’s tube is again passed id thn p ? ,a ,of tie nostnl on the other side, and the foot of the polyp, 'the nrm °f f'6 • lianginS in tIie mouth is attached to the knob loon £ f!!lUde<! '^r!ng? an,d drawn back throu8'h the nose. In this way ' the nr ed'^Ith the thrGad, the two ends of which encircle the sides t -ought inm'tl rie. l7° ,CndS -°f the thread hanging from the nose are )lYp . , the end of a loop-tier, which is introduced to the foot of the :cordi~he lo°P IS 111 a d«gree tied together by drawing its ends, at it inn! mrcumstances. The loop-tier is to be wrapped in lint, so the usual manner"1^6 * n0strd ’ and ds projecting end supported