855 OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. if towards night the patient drop off to sleep, none is given; but if he be restless and uneasy, opium must be given, and in such dose as shall ensure sleep, and if one be insufficient, a second should be given a few hours after, which is usually effective. Also if, on the evening after the operation, the patient should be restless or even only wakeful, although he have not been accustomed to opium, it should not be spared, as it is of the utmost importance to his well-doing that he should get sleep for the first few nights after the infliction of so severe an injury as an amputation. As to the sedative to be employed, opium is, I am sure, the most effective ; in ordinary cases, its tincture, from thirty to forty drops at a dose, as may be, is sufficient; but sometimes, especially to free livers and sottish persons, it will be advantageous to give it in form of muriate of mor- phia, a third or half a grain at a dose, and such persons not unfrequently require it twice or three times a day during the whole course of their cure. Care, however, must be taken that the bowels should not be blocked up and loaded, as not unfrequentlv happens, and is best corrected by a dose of three or four grains of calomel, which in general answers sufficiently, without disturbing the alimentary canal, and exciting diarrhcea, as other purgative remedies too frequently do. Another very important point in the treatment of operations, is the use of porter, wine or spirituous liquors ; even where the patient has been prudent and temperate, it is occa- Jf *10nally necessary that one or other of these should be given soon after an operation But I for persons who have been accustomed to take large quantities of porter or spirits, or both, and who, in consequence of severe accidents, are subjected to the amputation of a limb H *h° haT.e S®7ere Iterations, which, however, do not require operation, it is absolutely i necessary for their safety that the stimulant should not only be not entirely withdrawn I¥flen somewhat very near the quantity they have been accustomed to, must be allowed’, °,V.h y e!ther sin.k at once, are attacked with erysipelas, or are violently affected with I' 1 *5 W,;ich ?0ndltl0n they speedily die. The quantity taken may often i seem enormous under the circumstances; three or four glasses of gib or brandy and as JuhZi °r,more Wlne> and sometimes porter besides, in the course of the twenty-four ' 1S by no means an unfrequent allowance; and I have just the recollection of one ' nf h yOU,ng.f CkINlS Patlents> a P°rter at the Royal Exchange, who required a pint of brandy daily after having suffered amputation of his leg for an accident This man I *aVed bV,hlS treatment and lived many years after, doubtless following the same free course of living which had required treatment, at that period thought exceedingly m hS although at present every daf’s pra^fi 2o89. In regard to the time of year when an operation should be under- token, there is no longer any restriction, as was formerly the case with many operations If spring have any preference over other seasons, it mlepends only on the steadiness of the weather. In other respects if the cir- cumstances of the case allow the operation to be deferred, in those opera- = tiorrs, which, on account of their precision require bright light for their performance, and in persons who are subject to rheumatic and gouty • flTect.ons, and are very sensible to changes of temperature, a bright da/ tod a season when steady weather may be expected, should be preferred’ -’rhoqqnieT°f V6Ty ?PfSSlve ieat should be> if' possible, avoided. : Si T‘d.m»de » P"*io»s a proposition ■ we receo tfookro iilh iho SK °’’,eCt ”"ish his P»«o« Another ; ndanger the patient’as Wauduoi.’h r.r nti 'S mesmerism, which, however, does not b patient as Waudrop h proposal most certainly would.—J. F. S.j •fWereble/bmr^t/Vn081 .Senou8 occurrences during an operation, besides evert bleeding, the following must be noticed m Mrnrghc’hen Optr.Vlionen L-olp7Wd18b(5""<l“"^ Und d°n Nut“"rdes °els der Warms bei 1 u* («) Lancet, just quoted, p. 597.