EXARTICULATION OF METATARSAL BONES. 949 upper flap according to Waltheb’s method, that is, when everything is separated from the bones, such adhesion of the tendons, especially of the m. tibialis anticus, will follow ; that the heel cannot be so far drawn up by the operation of the gastrocnemial muscles as in the formation of a simple plantar flap or of an upper flap merely of skin. If after this operation the heel be considerably drawn up, the foot will be little useful for walk- ing ; and under such circumstances the subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis has been recommended. Scoutetten*s. oval cut only remains to be mentioned, in which from the middle of the Jine of the joint upon the instep, a cut is made passing forwards and downwards towards the roots of the metatarsal bones, and connected by a transverse cut upon the sole of the foot in the region of the bases of those bones. The skin is then drawn back, and the exposed joint divided. Blasius recommends his oblique cut. IV.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE METATARSAL BONES. [ (tearticulatio inter Tarsum et Metatarsum, Lat.; Ablostmg der Mittelfussknochen aus ihrer Verbmdung mit den Fusswiirzelknochen, Germ.; Desarliculation des Metatar- siens, Fr.) Hev, William, Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 547. Second Edition. Vilerme, Sur les Amputations partielles du Pied; in Journal de Me'decine, par Le Roux, etc., vol. xxxii. p. 156, 1815. Lisfranc de St. Martin, Sur l'Amputation partielle du Pied. Paris, 1815, Ficker, Ueber die Amputation des Fusses zwischen der Fusswurzel und Mittelfuss- knochen; in von Graefe und von W aether’s Journal fiir Chirureie und Auo'enheil- jKunde, vol. iv. p. 90. D ! Scoutetten, Memoire et Observations sur l’Amputation partielle du Pied dans 1 articulation tarso-metatarsienne ; sur l’Amputation metacarpo-phalangienne en totalite et Reflexions sur l’Amputation phalango-phalanginienne; in Archives generates de Medecme, vol. xiii. p. 54. 1827. 2785. The metatarsal bones may be removed from their connexion with the tarsal bones either all together or singly. The first operation should always be performed if the destruction do not extend over the tarsal bones md the advantage of this operation is greater than Chopart’s excision’ is thereby a larger portion of the foot and the insertion of the m. tibialis tnticus is preserved, and the drawing back of the heel prevented. But f the greater difficulty of this operation be considered on account of the regularity of the joints, and the impossibility of closely applying the lap, and that by the peformance of Chopart’s excision, according to the node recommended by Waltheb, the drawing back of the heel can be n-evented, this preference may seein less considerable. 2786. Hey first makes a mark upon the back of the foot, at the con- ■exion of the metatarsal with the tarsal bones, and an inch beyond this a ransverse cut through the skin and muscles of the bones of the metatarsus. ■ om each end of this, he carries a cut along the inner and outer edge of e foot towards the toes, separates the skin from the metatarsal bones, n all the integuments and muscles forming the sole of the foot, from the - naer pan of the metatarsus, with the edge of the knife close to the bone ■ i 0 JOIntf> detaches the four lesser metatarsal bones at this joint’ saws irough the projecting part of the first cuneiform bone connected* -jrrp/i ° -O great toe‘ A^ter the blood is stanched, the flaps are brought ogether with sutures. ° a