COMPARISON OF 622 to think that his mode causes only a temporary incontinence. Most Surgeons lioweve i arc, I believe, sadly perplexed with this tiresome result, and the patient necessarily stil • more so. Very recently I have seen a woman, who was cut with the gorget abou < twenty years ago; she cannot retain her water at all, but it is constantly dribbling away, and she is in a very pitiable condition. To avoid this untoward result, Hey (o j made use of a cylindrical linen tent two inches long and one broad, which he passee into the vaginn, for the purpose of bringing the edges of the wound together withou obstructing the urethra, and the plan succeeded. Brodie tried the same method, bu . i unsuccessfully ; though perhaps it may have depended on the child’s irritability. I an not aware that Astley Cooper’s suggestion of sutures has yet been tried. The large size of stones which have been passed spontaneously, as related bjtj Heister (&), Middleton (e\ Colot (d), Molineux (e), and Yelloly (f), as well as the earpicker-case mentioned by Thomas (</), which was removed by dilating the urethra with sponge tent, led to the proposal of dilating the urethra either with sponge, or with an instrument corresponding in form to a speculum ani. These methods have, however, been generally followed by incontinence, if the dilatation have been made to any great* extent. Brodie says, indeed, that “ none” of the cases to which he refers “ suffered from actual incontinence of urine ; but one of them, in whom the calculus was of large, size, could not retain more than two or three ounces of urine in the bladder after- wards.” And hence he concludes, that “ the method of dilatation is not to be recom- mended, except in cases of moderate size.” (pp. 351, 52.) I think, if I should be called on to operate for stone in the female, I should be disposed to perform the. lateral cut with the gorget or knife, it would not matter much which, and adopt the method re-: commended by Hey.—J. F. S.] 2133. Opening the bladder above the pubic symphysis has been par- ticularly recommended in women, because, in drawing out the stone by ■ the outlet of the pelvis, injury of the vagina or of the pudic artery is; feared ; large stones cannot at all be extracted, and incurable inconti- nence of urine remains as the frequent consequence of this operation. The proceeding is conducted exactly as in the male, and the escape of the • urine from the wound above can be more readily prevented, by the infro-' duction of a catheter through the urethra. COMPARISON OF LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. 2134. In considering the advantages and disadvantages of lithotrity. as compared with those of lithotomy, it must be first remarked, that many of the objections properly made to its earlier mode of performance, as the difficulty of introducing the instruments, its tedious operation, especially when the stone is hard and the like, have lost much of their importance, or are entirely removed, by the great degree of perfection to which lithotrity has of late attained. The time has not, however, yet fully arrived, nor are the results yet in such condition, that a positive opinion can be given on this point. The hitherto-furnished statistics of the results of lithotomy and lithotrity afford no decisive clue, because stone-patients must, in reference to this point, be divided into three classes; first, those which are favourable, for the effectual crushing; second, those in which the crushing may be attempted, but cannot be completed ; third, those in which, on account of various circumstances, lithotrity must from the first be considered inapplicable. It is therefore clear that if only simple and slight cases fall within the compass of lithotrity, and that to lithotomy the other two unfavourable classes beloug, (a) Practical Observations on Surgery, p. 560. Edition of 1810. (/,) Chirurgie. Ntirnberg, 1719.—1 ranslated as, A General System of Surgery. London, 1757. Sixth Edition. . , , , (r.) A Short Essay on Lithotomy above the Pubes. London, 1727. 4 to. Cri) Traite de l'Operation de la Taille. Pa*. 1727. Svo. , ,, (e) Philosophical Transactions, vol. xx. p- 1693. ( f) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 5<<• (</) Ibid., vol. i. p. 123.