OP VARICOCELE. 299 il 1540. In order to include all the veins, in the operation after Breschet’s o >thod, the patient must walk about for some hours previously in sum- >r, and in winter keep in a very warm bed, by which the veins are filled th blood. The purse is to be shaved, and the patient placed in front of j operator, who with his left hand grasps the right side of the purse, th the fore and middle finger behind, and the thumb in front, with its on the septum, whilst the two fingers support the testicle; the finger tthe right hand is to be applied to the left side of the purse, so that the gers may touch. The vas deferens is now to be found, which is easily lie, in consequence of its position at the back of the cord, its string-like iracter, its equal thickness (that of a crow quill,) throughout, its hard- s but elasticity, and by its peculiar painfulness when pressed. The vas ferens is now to be kept back with the finger and thumb against the iturn, whilst the veins are drawn out from it with the same fingers the right hand, in doing which especial care must be taken that not a gle vein remain with the vas deferens. The penis is to be kept by an istant lying upwards upon the belly, for the purpose of preserving on its der surface a sufficient length of skin, so as to prevent painful distension the often recurring erections. The compressing forceps are then to be Dlied, first the upper as high as possible on the purse, though at suffi- nt distance from the penis as not to produce excoriation ; the under one if an inch below the first, without, however, touching the testicle. The ceps are applied so across, that their arms grasp nearly the whole adth of the left side of the purse, up to the septum, that the vas defe- s remains unenclosed, and only the outer edge of the purse, to the rl ;adth of from two to three lines, without the veins, is contained in the d ice between the arms of the forceps, and when they are closed is not a ieezed. The arms of the forceps are now closed as tightly as possible Ih a screw, then by means of more violent pressure on a narrower i ice, a concealed plate on the upper arm is pushed forwards next the screw t. the septum, and then that on the other arm screwed tight. The patient i then put to bed, the forceps kept against the belly by long strips of 2 eking plaster, and the purse supported with a cloth or with a ball of t. rhe same method serves for the left side, on which varicocele is most frequent, as t described for the right side, only the position of the hands is reversed. ?or the above described compressing forceps, and their mode of application, see Lan- ;zy, f. 1,2, 3. Breschet’s original forceps, their improvement by a movable plate, f iffect pressure on three sides. I have employed the latter always with the best result. • 1541. In the first hours after the operation, the patient feels a sharp >n in the purse and in the groin, but this subsides. Applications of f ^'-wasli are to be made to the purse. When on the second or third day if J forceps become loose, the plate is to be screwed tighter, which, if it ' now only as at first properly done, does not cause much pain. When ' Sppuration ensues, between the fifth and sixth days, the forceps are to be Roved, and the remaining suppurating parts treated simply. If painful •etions of the penis take place, which are most surely prevented by eping the penis against the belly during the application of the forceps su scquently, which I have never practised in my operations, small v o camphor, with nitre, may be employed. The time necessary for ',<ines between three and six weeks. It is advisable, for some uns alter the cure, to wear a well-fitting suspender, and to use the lfl bath and lead washes.