558 STONE IN THE BLADDER; 2033. Although hints about the extraction of an urinary stone aft< r' previously crushing it in the bladder, are found in Celsus (1) and Ai bucasis (2), and the successful experiments of two persons upon then: ;! selves have been recorded (3), yet Gruithuisen (a) made the first actuE ;ji proposal, in which, by means of a straight tube introduced into tb i < bladder, and a wire loop projected out of it, the stone being held fast, ws*l 1 penetrated by a borer or trepan passed through the tube, and the crushin of the small pieces effected by the introduction of forceps through the tube 4 >j this was not thought anything of, and partly because the proposed metho [a was considered impracticable. Even Elderton’s (h) instrument, curveJ like the common catheter, and with two opening arms, by which the ston A might be grasped and destroyed by means of a file, was not much regarded* (1) Celsus (c) says:—“ Calculus fendendus est. Id hoc modo fit. Uncus injicituf calculo, ut facile eum concussum teneat, ne is retro revolvatur ; turn ferramentum adhA bitur crassitudinis modicm, prima parte tenui, sed retusa, quodadmodum calculum e: i altera parte ictum fendit.” (2) Albucasis (d):—“ Let a slender instrument betaken * * * and gently introduced into the penis; roll the stone into the middle of the bladder, and if it be soft, let it b ! broken and discharged.” According to Haller (e), Sanctohius described a three-armed catheter, through which a stilette with a file end was passed, and the stone broken up, and the piece., having been seized by the branches of the catheter, were removed. (3) The former of these persons introduced, by means of a flexible sound passed ink; the bladder a straight steel rod with its extremity ground to a point, down to the stone: and struck upon the outer end of the rod, in consequence of which little pieces wen separated from the stone and voided with the urine (4). The latter, by means of ai I elastic sound, carried down a fine file, about thrice in every twenty-four hours, betweei . the stone and the bladder, and used it as a file upon the stone, which he endeavoured ti bring near the neck of the bladder (5). (4) This (f) the celebrated case (“ if well proved,” as Chaussier and Percy observer of the Monk of Citeaux, and to the notice above given may be added, that having intro- duced the rod, he struck its end with a hammer with some little sharp sudden strokes j sufficient to detach some little pieces and splinters, which were carried off by the urine and with which in the course of a year he filled a little box. (5) This person was General Martin, (g) who gives the following account of his pro ceedings :—“ As I generally found the stones by the neck of the bladder, it suggestedtr me that by making a catheter with small holes on the side, I perhaps could break th< sharp points of the stones by passing the catheter between the stones and bladder; this by a small catheter I could introduce between the stones and bladder, and I succeeded ir bringing many small pieces away, and after no more. But as I constantly found the* stones, my good genius.suggested me to make files, and by introducing them on the catheter, and with small motion, I either filed or scraped the whole stones out during about nine months. When I could not get at the stones, I injected warm water in the bladder, which I rejetted or urined out with force, and large stream, and mostly always the stone came to the neck of the bladder and stopped the water, then it was my time to file again, which I did, inclining my body against the wall for to be able to keep the* stones as much as I could in position to be able to fill it often. * * * As I saw my pro* gress by many small pieces which I still have, besides the sand, or fine sandy part, it made me persevere in that mode till I brought every' piece out, and then, afterwards, 1 found myself able to walk, ride, &c., as every body else, which I had not done for many years; and I made water very well, though still always a little matter preceded the urine, and also by straining, some few drops came out after the urine.” (pp. 251, 252.) How long time was occupied in this process is not mentioned, nor does it appear how long he lived after having, as he stated, thus relieved himself. He died in 1800, and in the note (a) Salzburg Med.-Chir. Zeitung, vol. i. p.289, f. 1-9. 1813. (b) Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xv. p. 261, f. 1,2,3. 1819. (c) De Medicinii, book vii. cliap. lii. sect. iii. (d) Lilicr Theoricaj necnon Practice. fol. Aug. Vind., 1519. p. 94. (e) Blblioth. Chinirg., vol. i. p. 313. (/) Rapport fait a 1'Academic Royale Sciences, par Chacssifr et Pkkcv, sur le .no“" veau moycn du Dr. Cjviale, p. 171. P»ri\i ,‘ (o) IIomk, Practical (Ibservations on the ire ment of Diseases of the Prostate Gland, vol. 1818.