894 TYING OF ARTERIES. I do not think there is more danger in giving the lower part of the limb to an assi- |(| tant than the upper; for if the operator hold the lower end, the last portion of th>U bone is just as likely to be snapped through by the muscles above, when they begin t [• t'r. lose the counterpoise of the limb below, if not specially guarded against. This I hav j i| seen, again and again, in amputation through the thigh, that when the bone has bee«H" sawn through steadily, and without a splinter, the moment the saw has passed through** - up jumps the stump. One point, however, should never be forgotten, to wit, that immediately the soft partr*® : are completely divided, the assistant should grasp the limb below, as near as possible t f A the place of sawing; and if he have from circumstances, grasped the bone or bone-Uj below that which will be sawn through, he should change his grasp, and fix it o> h| the end of the bone just about to be cut through. This specially applies when1'* amputation is performed for diseases of joints, as then the joint is too tender to permi... being taken hold of, till its nerves have been divided by the cuts of the operation.—a J. F? S.] 2694. After the bone has been sawn through, the divided vessels mus t, be tied, according to the rules already given (par. 291.) The principal artery is to be first tied, and afterwards the smaller ones. For this pur-j pose, it is not necessary to relieve the pressure on the arteries, so that tilt mouths of the vessels should be seen by the spouting of the blood ; anatom mical knowledge must here guide the operator. All the spouting vessel* ' having been tied, warm water must be allowed to flow over the wound to ascertain whether there be any little vessel still bleeding. The more carefully the vessels are tied, the, less need is there for the application ol cold water, which is generally only necessary when there is trickling oi blood from vessels which cannot be distinguished, so as to ensure the patient against after-bleeding. _ The best material for ligatures is round, not very thick, but sufficiently strong silk threads ; either both ends of which may be cut off close to the knot,° or only one is cut off at the knot, and the remaining one led the nearest way out to the surface of the wound, where it must be fixed to the skin with sticking plaster (par. 293.) What has been already said (par. 297) in reference to torsion, applies here. In the history of amputation, the mode of stanching the blood is of the greatest im- portance, as its well-doing and less danger are in the closest relation with the niannerin which the stanching of the blood is effected. Before Ambrose Pare, m 1582, re- employed the separate tying of vessels, already known, from Galen and Aetius, scons endeavoured to stanch the bleeding with boiling oil and pitch, nito which tde> stump was plunged, or with the actual cautery j or the amputation was performed w in a red-hot knife. Tying the arteries at first met with violent opposition, and but ttw supporters (Guillemeau, De La Motte, and others.) From the absence of ■ 1»®“ tion against bleeding, together with the unfitting form of Ae ligature instrui practice of tying the arteries was very difficult, and the bleeding rendered amputation dangerous, on which account, in many cases, it was not undertaken. nh on k. tion of the tourniquet, by Morel, in 1674, and its improvement by Petit, amputation become more general. For the stanching of bleeding, however, ie button, actual cautery, the stick, and tourniquet, were still used in preference, dread of cutting through the artery in tying it when isolated, led to tying “*a^hing passing the ligature through it, till this, as well as all the earlier modes of stan .K the blood, yielded completely to tying the vessel alone. It is incomprehensibleJ*®4 the present time there should still be some, who, instead of the simple and safe Fct he of tying, employ the constant application of cold water; or in hap-amputan s. ^ compression of the principal arteries in the flap against the bony stump, and reemnmend it () n amputation .g not alwa ,s fronl the arteries, but .wrn^nws ,b„l„gh .l" h.™ been tied, aid the .onrniqne. ,.ke« off ami —« jJJ the tourniquet has not been used, the larger veins pour out, and will not tic er f,,') Koch, De praistantissima Amputationis me- tliodo. Landsch., 1826. On the contrary, com- pare von Graefe ; in his lournsl fur CHirurgk unil Atigcnhcilkunde, vol. *»• P-