OF VAltlX. 291 | oagulated blood, as well also as in those which are very painful, inflamed jj nd much expanded; and, after the removal of the blood, pressure, j igether with cold applications and the horizontal posture are to be em- it loyed. 1526. In cases of larger size and greater extent, the skin and the vein j uist be cut into, by an incision two inches long, upon the largest not, the escaping blood kept back with the finger, the cavity of the vein lugged with sponge or lint introduced into it, and the bleeding stanched yr the application of compresses and circular bandages. If the varicose tpansion be only on the leg, one cut is sufficient; if it extend to the middle the thigh, one cut is to be made above the ankle, a second close above e knee, and if the whole thigh be affected, a third cut is to be made at [ual distance. The limb is then to be bandaged, and cold applications to used for some days. Inflammation takes place in the vein which so reads from the principal to the other varix, that a greater degree of asticity arises in them, and the neighbouring varices disappear (a). 1527. In some very prominent knots, or even in swellings formed by e agglomeration of various veins, extirpation, (cirsotomia,) originally oposed by Celsus, has been practised. In the separate knots, the skin, movable, should be cut through in a single fold, so that the cut may ach from above to below, over the knot, which is then to be raised with e hook, separated, and cut off above and below. If the skin be ad- rent, it must be taken away as well as the knot. In the same manner e large swellings are to be treated, and the divided vein tied at its per and lower end ; or, if the position permit it, the bleeding is to be inched by pressure (5). 1528. Tying (proposed anciently by Aetius and Paulus AEgineta) to be performed in varix of the lower extremity, on the principal ink of the saphenous vein, above the swollen part, which is to be laid re ) a suitable cut through the skin, freed from cellular tissue, and the ;ature carried round it with a probe ; after which, pressure is to be ‘ pt up in the horizontal posture (c). Ricokd (d) removes the sub- igneous connexion of the vein, lifts up the vein in a fold of the skin, d thrusts a suture needle, armed with a double thread, through the skin land the vein, then lets go the vein, without leaving hold of the skin, d carries the needle back through the same holes reversed above the * in, so that the vessel is caught in a subcutaneous loop, both ends of which mg held together at the same wound in the skin, are tied on a piece elastic bougie as in the quill suture. In a similar way, but with two ips, the subcutaneous tying may be performed, according to Tavignot’s a Jthod. (par. 1432.) SvSf/ 7ing.£e saphenous vein was revived by Sir Everard Home, for o .f hr eg,Leither W,.th or without ulcers; and he stated (e), “that in the size- and^alffh1" the °P®ratl011’ the veins in general were very much diminished „ -n thVee Vhe»CKSeS thC U CCrs put on a much more healthy appearance in less 3red to nrevenH?er ^ TT°n> and from that time, where no circumstance oc- | prevent it, went on healing like ulcers in healthy parts.” (p. 330.) It, however, (d) Du Traitement des Varices par la Ligature sous cutanee des Veines ; in Bullet, general do I heraneutiaue. .Tulv 183Q. Second P Graefk, in his Introduction to C. Bell's _ j j oyKIl» train'- des Maladies Chirurgicales, vl citedI!I;L’'-a,IX>Vv, Cited' P- 91— Hodoson, - « cued, p. ooO.—Moulinik, J. Therapeutique. July, 1839 (e) Practical . , Observations on Ulcers. Edit. 8vo. 1801. u 2