962 EXARTICULATION OF FORE-ARM AT ELBOW. passed in at the top of the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, carried) flat before the bend of the elbow, and thrust through before and above the inner condyle, at corresponding height to the point ot entrance, and then being drawn down, a flap is formed of three or four fingers’ breadth long. The vessels found in this flap may be at once tied. A cut through, the skin is next made on the opposite side of the arm, two fingers’ breadth 1 below the entrance of the former, extending from one end of the existing: wound to the other, and the skin is dissected back to set the olechranon < free. The external ligament is now cut through, the knife, carried between the upper-arm-bone and the radius, and the fore-arm being bent, cuts- through the tendon of the m. triceps, and lastly, the internal lateral liga- ment. According to Brasdor, a transverse cut should be made through the skin and tendon of the m. triceps on the extending side of the arm ; the ligaments are then divided, and. the whole knife, the arm being bent, is carried through the joint, and forms from the inside of the arm a fleshy flap. Jaeger favours this method. The fore-arm being bent at a right or an oblique, angle, he makes a semicircular cut through the skin with a small convex amputating- knife, two fingers’ breadth below the point of the olechranon, from the head of the* radius to the outer edge of the ulna. The skin is drawn back by an assistant above thei olechranon, and the tendon of the m. triceps cut through, by which the joint is opened. Whilst the fore-arm is bent still more, the lateral ligaments between the upper-arm-bone and the olechranon and the ulna aud radius are opened, the knife is carried over the coronoid process upon the front of both bones, the arm being slightly bent, and by cut- ing from within outwards, a flap of three fingers’ breadth is formed, which the assistant grasps before its complete division, and compresses the brachial artery. FIager makes two longitudinal cuts of three inches length, down from the condyles to the ulna and radius, by which he marks out the front flap. An inch below the upper angle he makes a semicircular cut through the skiu and muscles behind, separates the little flap upwards, passes into the joint from behind, and forms the front flap, two inches or two inches aud a half long. Rodger forms the front flap with a semicircular cut, from the head of the radius to the inner condyle, and by separating the skin he forms the hind flap. After which the joint is cut through. _ , , , Dupuytren’s (a) agreed with Textor’s method, except that he sawed ofl the olechranon. He performed this operation eight or ten times successfully, and preferred it as giving a greater length of the upper-arm, and leaving the in. triceps attached, by sawing oft the olechranon. When the soft parts are not sufficient to form a front flap, Uiji’UYTRKN made a circular cut through the skin and aponeurosis, the fore-arm being half bent, three fingers’ breadth below the condyles of the upper-arm-bone. These parts are drawn back by an assistant, and the muscles cut through at their edge down to the bone. Whilst the operator separates them upwards from the bones, he reaches the joint, _i • i. • i u.: *i,„ inl lirmmonts nnri the oansular Inrament on the which is opened by dividing the lateral ligaments and the capsular ligament on the front. The knife then easily passes between the bones and the operation is complete^. •one. ine icnixe men easuy passes uawccu —, Velpeau and Cornuau proceed in like manner with the circular cut, only they o not saw through but exarticulate the olechranon. _ , Textor (6) proposes the oval cut, which, however, is more difficult and not so a - vantageous as the flap, in the following way. The arm being brought horizontal, the fore-arm straightened, and the hand prone, the Surgeon standiug on the outer side makes, with a small amputating knife, one cut about four inches long and penetrating to the bone, from the head of the radius obliquely upwards and inwards to above the tip of the olechranon, and then a second on the ulnar side from the upper end of the ulna, to the same height. He then dissets back the flaps to their base, passes between tbe unner-arni hone and radius, upon and around the olechranon. and cuts through the ten- don of the m. triceps, whilst the fore-arm is bent and supine. He now cuts fbrwaros i and downwards over the coronoid process of the ulna, above the head of the radius an along both bones so far upwards as necessary to form a flap three fingers breadth long- The wound is brought together lengthways. . a . lhe Baudens proceeds in another way. The fore-arm being rendered supine and th brachial artery compressed, the Surgeon, standing on the inner side if he operate on w (n) Logons Oralcs, vol. iii. p* 31P. (5) Jaeoer, above cited, p. 365.