SCIRRHOUS BRONCHOCELE. 654 is very various, and it may become so large that the breathing may be rendered ve difficult or completely stopped. Its cavities are frequently divided by a partitii which is open at some one part, so that the two sides of the swelling communics with each other. The cysts, which are almost always very thick, resistant, and litl: contractile, usually contain a brownish-coloured fluid; the other parts are very differei Opinions vary as to the actual seat of the swelling. Some say it is developed at t expense of the thyroid gland; others in the tissue surrounding the gland, in which ca | the gland, pressed back towards the windpipe, becomes atrophic, and is more or It surrounded with a false membrane, and the cyst is placed at its hinder upper pa If the swelling be developed in the gland itself, there are very rarely found any trac of its parenchyma, the vessels alone remain, and are filled with fluid which has usual! the colour of wine lees. That the thyroid gland usually remains sound in this diseari as has been also supposed, appears without foundation; and according to the abov , described, ordinary relations of the gland, its determination as a peculiar kind ;j lymphatic bronchocele is legitimate. It is characterized by its egg-shaped or glob j like form, without knobby elevations, by the elastic tension of the most projectiri part of the swelling, by the bulging of its contents in different directions on the appri cation of pressure which is not painful, by its more or less distinct fluctuation, and r.j transparency when present. The beating of the arteries is less distinct, and if presei-i as Dupuytrf.n has noticed in one case, there is a motion and heaving of the swellif; by the communicated pulsation, and not depending on its expansion and contractic: (PlGNE.) _ _ J [Under the one term, lymphatic bronchocele, CnELius here includes two decided!* different diseases ; first, cysts in the substance of the gland, which he has described 1 i the principal clause of the paragraph, may fairly retain the name; and, secondly, seror: cysts in the neck, which are called by Maunoir, Hydrocele du Con, but in reality a only cysts developed in the cellular tissue, and have nothing to do with the thyrori gland, except spreading over it as over the other parts in the neck; they will be agar noticed in treating of Encysted Tumours, (p. 695.)—J. F. S.] 2169. In Scirrhous Bronchocele (Struma scirrliosa) the thyroid glan is less enlarged, but unusually hard, knobby, and irregular; the neigh- bouring cellular tissue wastes; from the very first the pain is violent an gnawing, and spreads up the neck ; breathing and swallowing are ver difficult, the one more than the other however, according to the part c the gland diseased. The scirrhous mass very soon adheres to the air tube and to the muscles of the neck, and in the last stages the covering! become wrinkled and in folds. A sanious fluid often collects in the celW immediately beneath the surface ; the mass of the swelling presses bacM wards, by which the inconveniences are very much increased. At la4j it is converted into a carcinoma and a true cancerous ulcer, with wnicl the neighbouring glands of the neck become swollen. I 2170. Much uncertainty prevails as to the cause of bronchocele. 1 ] many districts, especially in low vallies, it is an endemic, unless its causj can be decidedly referred to the state of the atmosphere, the use of watej containing salts of difficult solution, or of snow water (l). Cretinistt and bronchocele do not stand in any necessary causal relation ; the nite lectual faculties are weak from birth in cretins, and in many this blunt ness of intellect is complete, without swelling of the thyroid gland, a least without any such as can produce obstruction to the circulation Experience, however, show's in most cases in cretins a peculiar nusforma tion of the skull, by which the circulation in the carotids is more or les disturbed, and the enlargement of the thyroid gland produced by ‘ greater inflow of blood (2). Females are more commonly subject bronchocele than males, and its commencement usually begins with ' menstrual development (3). Bronchocele frequently makes its appa ance in scrofulous subjects (4). I have twice noticed congenital swe of the thyroid gland. Violent exertion, labour pains, carrjing