67 ANATOMY OF FEMORAL RUPTURE. interims, and in. psoas magnus, so that only in the middle of Pou- part’s ligament, between the ilio-pectinean eminence, and the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, there remains an oblong opening, the femoral ring, (annulus cruralis, Lat. ; Schenkelring, Germ.; anneau crurale, Fr., the inner aperture for the femoral vessels of Hesselbach,) which contains the femoral vessels, nerves, and lymphatic ganglions. The m. iliacus internus, and psoas magnus, are covered with a thin aponeu- rosis, (fascia iliaca,) which arises imperceptibly from the surface of the former, and lies immediately upon those muscles; the iliac vessels, and peritoneum, lie upon and are connected with it by loose cellular tissue. This aponeurosis is attached to the linea innominata, to the inner edge of the iliac pit, and to the hind edge of Poupart’s liga- ment. Opposite the latter insertion, it terminates running into a point near the passage for the femoral vein. Another portion of this aponeu- rosis passes over the share-bone, behind the femoral artery and vein, towards the thigh, where it forms the hind part of the sheath in which the femoral vessels are enclosed, and is fixed to the fascia lata. From this state of parts, the protrusion of the intestines is very difficult; however, the part between the inner concave edge of Poupart’s ligament, and the ’emoral vein, is not entirely closed, but only filled up by a lymphatic gan- lion, or by thick cellular tissue. This space is bounded above and before by Poupart’s ligament; below and behind by the share-bone ; inwardly by the concave edge of Poupart’s ligament; and outwardly by the femoral vein. The thigh sheath (fascia lata) has two distinct insertions at the front upper part of the thigh ; it is firmly attached to the upper part of :he share-bone, above the origin of the m. pectineus, which it overspreads, »nd further to the front part of the femoral ring. The former portion pro- seeds with the iliac fascia behind the femoral vessels ; the second attaches tself to Poupart’s ligament, though not throughout its whole length, for ts insertion terminates at the inside of the femoral vessels, which it covers xternally. In this region then the femoral vessels lie between the two ayers of the fascia lata; the upper layer is connected below with the inder, by which one opening is formed (the external opening for the -moral vessels of Hesselbach ; the oval cavity of Lawrence, which, at m outer edge, presents a semilunar edge ; the femoral ligament of Hey ; le falciform process of Burns.) In this outer hole the vena saphena •asses. This aperture is larger in women than in men where it is entirely losed by a tendinous bundle of net-like tissue. Besides this aperture, lere are still several little openings in the upper layer for the passage t vessels. A thick cellular tissue, or a thin aponeurosis, spreads over ie fascia, and covers the vena saphena. SI8 Ascription of the parts concerned in femoral rupture does not accord with that t, ? received in England, nor is it correct according to our dissection. a C"nous orcumstance that the tendinous and cellular parts connected with • .? ufe sf.era to be a general repetition of those of inguinal; in both an aperture ore no,.fp„ntendlll0us expansion over the parts, and in both a cellular funnel, less or Pour - r shut Up an< £uarded by peritoneum, exists. uscloAbl h m<i‘nt’ °ir the l0-VCr mar6in °f the tendon of the external oblique abdominal me to twkT fdy ™nt,.oned “ stretching from the upper front spine of the liip- ing separate,of the share-bone, its two latter attachments or pillars lauhe^ttachment ‘^^ernal abtlymmal ring. But on further examination, it is found ing continued n,,tWn 's tendon is still more extensive, its connexion with th a pelvis al concave edee fnei S ' °,m Pub‘c spine about half an inch, and finishing by a half fe nc outwards, thus forming a triangular tendinous space, known f 2