[ 668 ] V.—OP CALLOSITIES AND CORNS. (Indurationes et Clavi, Lat.; Schwielen und Huhneraugen, Germ.; Cors, Fr.) 2195. Callosities are more or less circumscribed thickenings of th' epidermis, produced by continued pressure. They are most common! seen on the backs of the toes, on their joints, especially on the last, am between the toes (corns.) They are generally flat, as if pressed into th. skin, are produced slowly, and only when they have become large caus darting pain, under which circumstances the neighbouring parts are in flamed”by the pressure of the callous mass. Sometimes they commenc. with violent pain, especially in persons whose skin is tender. They art more troublesome in warm than in cold weather. The skin is indented in the middle of a corn, and on examination, the corion is often fount perforated. These projections of the epidermis consist of two substances; the upper is dry, it shape like the head of a nail, and formed of layers of epidermis, one upon the other which often readily separate from each other, especially if softened by bathing the feet This substance shows no organization. The other part deeper and semitransparent form! the base of the former, penetrates through the thickness of the skin down to the tendon to the ligament, and even to the bone, upon which it is in a manner rooted, which show: it to have a certain degree of organization. Breschet observed it to be penetrated ii different directions by numerous vessels. It is this which especially causes the pain it changes of the weather, although that is also produced by the pressure of the horny sub- stance upon the surrounding parts, in consequence of which inflammation of its whole extent ensues, and may even spread (Pigne.) The corn is, according to Brodii:, in the beginning, a thickening of the epidermis as a consequence of greater secretion from the cutis from pressure; subsequently a bursa forms; by degrees inflammation of this bum takes place beneath the horny epidermis, in consequence of which it beceimes very pain- ful and runs on to abscess. Rosenbaum (a) explains the origin of this bursa as conse- quence of the closure of the glands of the skin. 2196. The cure of callosities and corns requires, above all things, the removal of pressure from tight shoes, and even from tight stockings; after which they gradually subside of themselves. If the corn be upon the sole of the foot, a felt sole must be worn, with a hole in it, to receive the corn. As palliatives may be used, softening plasters, frequently bathii# the feet, shaving off in slices, or scratching away with the knife or with wetted pumice-stone, the application of a plaster, with a hole in i middle, into which the corn may be received. The complete re»10'al the corn, by dividing the skin around it with two cuts, lifting it up forceps, and extirpating it with the knife or with scissors, "hie i is a attended with considerable pain; also its destruction with caustic; strewing it with different remedies, after previously removing some layer* of the callous mass, are mere palliatives, if the cause, that is, pressure, not removed. Some persons are more subject to corns than others. j The numerous remedies recommended for corns are either softening salves, or irritating and caustic applications, which produce either ^ a« puration, aud throwing out ot the corn, or its destruction. The latter nm ^ objectionable, as they often produce violent inflammation, extensive 3 ,£ neither dancer of eangrene. Also in removing them by slices, care must be taken that:n pahfCn or Weeding arise; and the J also applies to the sub^uent lunar caustic, (Wardrop.) with sals, vit.i: Hokfm , with i«d. t«A». symptoms, gr. xii., antim. mur. 3iv., (Henderson,) and the like, as thereby dangerou u especially in old and gouty persons, may be produced, and the radical c 1 little effected as by extirpation, if the pressure be not removed ^ . warcil,g dangerous consequences after such treatment, and agree with P. 1 Rank de clavis pedum caute secandis. (,n) Allgemein Medic. Zeitung. 1838. No. 60.