506 HYDROCELE; TREATMENT RY CAUSTIC, AND CUTTING the cauterized part is to be punctured with a lancet, and covered, aftei j the emptying of the swelling is complete, with wadding. According to Hesselbach (a), a plaster full of holes, and spread -with powdemv nitrate of silver, as thick as a knife, should be applied on the front of the swelling ] over which a wad of linen and some sticking plaster should be placed, and the wholl fastened with a compress and a bag truss. After eight hours the caustic and the a plaster are to be taken off, the scrotum cleansed with water, and some lint spreac with digestive ointment, applied to the slough. When this falls offi the vagina), tunic is laid bare, and being raised, by the pressure of the swelling, like a ball, thi* i rounded part is then cut with the scissors, and the water emptied. The wound i j to be cleansed daily with water, or with camomile tea, and bound up with lint. A', every dressing, pieces of the tunic separate until the whole has come away. Tk( wound daily diminishes, the suppuration ceases, and the wound closes. 1957. In cutting away the vaginal tunic, the skin of the scrotum, and the vaginal tunic are divided, the latter drawn out of the wound with the fingers, and cut off throughout its whole extent by a cut lengthways * The dressing and after-treatment are the same as in the operation by incision. Boyer (b) recommends cutting through the skin the whole length of the swelling,! for the purpose of isolating the vaginal tunic as far as possible opposite the testicle^ then to open it, and cut off the flaps. Dupuytren considers it more simple to grasp-, the swelling, at the upper and back part, with one hand, so as to tighten the skin as - much as possible in front, then to cut into the skin, to shell the vaginal tunic out, j by pressing from behind forwards, and then to open and cut it off. Textor (c).j endeavoured to unite the wound by quick union, as Douglas had previously done.. Balling (d) strongly recommends excision; the part to be cut off should be some inches, of a semicircular form. After the operation, moderately cold applications: should be employed till a layer of lymph appear on the wound, and the union is to be effected with sticking plaster. [I apprehend no one would, in the present day, employ either of the latter two very- painful and uncalled for modes of practice, which are now mere matters of history.— J. F. S.] 1958. The preference and rejection of the several methods above described must be decided on the following grounds. It is not advisable to produce upon the testicle any irritation like that on the vaginal tunic. By incision, all the complications can be most distinctly made out, at the same time any existing intestinal rupture can be properly treated, the in- flammation be more properly excited, and effect a more safe cure. The bleeding which occurs in this operation is easily stanched; the severe symptoms occurring after it are most commonly the result of bad practice. After the cut, it is in most cases necessary to insert a half unravelled* piece of linen between the wounded edges of the vaginal tunic. Injections operate uncertainly, as the irritability of the individual cannot be previ- ously determined ; they act as violently on the testicle as on the scrotum ; if a part of the injection be poured into the cellular tissue, which is possi- ble, even with the greatest care and attention, very dangerous symptoms may arise therefrom ; in a diseased state of the testicle, which cannot always be decidedly made out, injections are necessarily hurtful. The superiority of injections, to wit, that by their use the cure follows more quickly, and that the patient does not need to be kept so long quiet, is of no value, as even after injection the cure is often longer protracted than by incision, and with the latter keeping so long quiet is not necessary. The i same observations apply also to the cure by seton and by tent, except that (n) Jahrbiicher tier philosonhisch-medicinischen Gesellschaft z.u Wiirzberg, vol. i. (f,) Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. x. p. 209. (c) Ueber cine neue Art die Hydrocele lieilon; in N. Chiron., vol. i. p. 416. (rf) Heidelb. klin. Annal., vol. vil. p.