279 ARTERIES OF BONES. rihe medullary artery was greatly enlarged, and threw out a forcible jet of blood. The an left the hospital with the stump healed, and in every respect well. On examining the nb, the lower third of the femur was found expanded into a spherical tumour, in the terior of which were cells of varying size, some of the largest about an inch in dia- eter, and tilled with blood. The femoral and popliteal artery were entire and healthy.” p. 311, 12.) Although Stanley places this case among the third kind of pulsating mours, yet it seems, from the history, that it has greater resemblance to the cond. From the recital of these cases, one important point immediately attracts attention, hich is, the absence of any peculiar character by which either form of swelling could ■ distinguished from aneurysm, for which they seem to have been almost universally istaken.—J. F. S.] 1505. In treating this disease, in some cases applications of various nds, leeches, rubbing in, mercurial treatment in presumed syphilitic seases, and so on, have been employed, but without any result. Only in a strict and sufficiently long continued antiphlogistic treatment, with tention to the general causes standing in somewhat causal relation, per- ips prevent the development of this disease. If the swelling have ready acquired a certain stage, according to our present experience, mg the principal arterial trunk, or amputation (if the situation of the sease permit) can alone effect a cure. 1506. Tying the principal trunk of the artery gives the more hope, :cording as it is undertaken early, even before considerable destruction 'the bone has taken place. Lallemand’s case proves that a perma- ;nt cure may be effected ; but when the diseased change in the bone has i far advanced, only temporary diminution of the swelling and removal ’ the aneurysmal symptoms are effected, whilst the disease of the bone mtinues spreading, as shown by Dupuytren’s (a) case, in which, seven >ars after the femoral artery had been tied for such swelling at the pper part of the shin-bone, amputation was required, as, without the appearance of any aneurysmal symptoms, it had attained an enormous ze. In all cases where the. destruction of the bone has already far Ivanced, amputation can only be considered as a means of deliverance ; must not, however, be herein overlooked that with existing constitutional isease, even after the operation, without any cause, the disease may be :t up again, as shown in Scarpa’s (b) first case, in which, five years fter amputation, during which time the patient’s health was good, the isease, without any cause, again showed itself on the stump of the thigh- one. BC.—UNNATURAL EXPANSION IN THE CAPILLARY-VASCULAR SYSTEM. t Bell, J., Principles of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 456. On the Aneurysma per anastomosin. * Graefe, C. F., De notione et cura angiectaseos labiorum. Lipsise, 1807. 4to. Ibid., Angiektasie ein Beitrag zur rationellen Kur und Erkenntniss der Gefassaus- ennungen. Leipz., 1808. 4to; with copper-plates. J Richerand, Nosographie Chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 120. i Hodgson, above cited, p. 441. 15^2’ Rela,tio" d.’un Voyage fait h Londres en 1814; ou Parallele de la Chirurgie giaise avec la Chirurgie fran^aise. Paris, 1815, p. 211. 820*^8^^’ ^> ’ ^lemoire sur les Fongus medullaire et hematode. Paris and Geneva, (n) Burse het, above cited, p. 15. (5) Above cited, p, 483.