534 URIC ACID GRAVEL, employed. Hydrocyanic acid may be given with advantage in flatulenci j 4 anil acidity of the stomach; and, if there be gouty complication, the , vinurn semvnum colchici. This treatment must, however, be modifiet 1 according to the circumstances of the case. The easier discharge of th< gravel is promoted by drinking much water, or any diuretic minera i water, as that of Vichy, Wildungen, Selters, Carlsbad, and the like. Wetzlar (a) proposes for uric acid gravel a solution of borax, as it dissolves tli. : uric acid with great readiness, and perhaps acts less injuriously on the digestive organ f< than alkalies. The peculiar property of vegetable acids, combined with alkalies, being converter iv in animal bodies into carbonic acid, and as such to pass into the urine, led to the proposal * of employing them instead of carbonic acid, as they are more easily borne than it i and allow of greater variety. Most vegetable alkalies can be used for a length o 1 time, and in large quantity, without disturbing the digestion, and are not unpleasant t< <j take, as the supertartrate, tartrate, and borate of potash, Seignette salts, acetate anc | citrate of potash and soda ; cherries, strawberries, and different kinds of fruits (&). According to Jones, the question of the treatment of the uric acid diathesis depends •< upon which way the greatest oxygenation can be produced upon the uric acid in the i body. This appears to be attainable, first, by the large addition of oxygen, as by ex-« • ercise, cold air; by medicine, as carbonic-acidized waters and iron; second, by the diminution of the other substances on which the oxygen acts more easily than on the i uric acid, that is those bodies which consist of hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen, by theii i exclusion from the food, and their removal by purging and sweating remedies.- third, by retaining in solution all the uric acid formed, by means of water and. alkalies. Upon the effect of vegetable diet on the diminution of uric acid, compare Liebig i upon the composition of the urine (c). Wilson Philip (d), on the contrary, has come! i to the conclusion, after a number of experiments, that a diet for the most part animal diminishes the deposit of uric acid, and increases that of the phosphates. [“ Different doses of the alkaline remedies will be required,” says Brodie, “ in different instances. Indeed a good deal of care is generally necessary to adjust the. dose to the peculiar circumstances of the individual case. If you give too little of the!’ alkali, the result is not obtained, and the lithic acid is deposited, although in smaller i quantity. If you give too much, you not only prevent the formation of the red sand, but you render the urine alkaline and a white sand (the triple-phosphate of ammonia 1 and magnesia) is deposited in its place. Other ill consequences follow the too liberals exhibition of alkalies. They alter the quality of the blood. After some time the patient is liable to petechia; he perspires too easily; becomes low-spirited,and less- capable than when in health of physical exertion. Magnesia does not produce these - effects at any rate, not to the same extent, as no more of it can enter into the consti- ’ tution than what is rendered soluble by its combination with acid in the stomach. Too large doses of magnesia, however, are mischievous in another way, by causing the I formation of magnesian calculi in the intestines. These are composed of magnesia S mechanically blended with the faces and intestinal mucus. They are not uncommon 1 in these times, when so many individuals are in the habit of taking magnesia in a careless and profuse manner. I have, in several instances, known a person to suffer a -1 good deal of distress from such a calculus being lodged in the rectum. But cases have occurred, in which the accumulation of magnesia in the intestine has taken place to a very great extent. Mr. Wilson examined the body of a patient, in whom, if I recol- > lect rightly, many pounds of magnesia were found collected in the colon, above a 1 contracted part of the rectum. In the exhibition of alkaline remedies, then, you must make each case the subject of a distinct experiment. * * * You should be provided ( with paper coloured blue by an infusion of litmus, and also with the same paper, j slightly reddened by immersion in a very weak acid. Healthy urine ought to turn the blue litmus paper red ; and you should avoid giving alkaline remedies in such a dose as to destroy this property altogether; still less ought you to render the urine alkaline. If the urine turns the paper blue, the patient is in danger of suffering from J* deposition of the phosphates and the alkalies must be given in smaller quantity. (pp. 202, 203.)] (а) Above cited, p. 78. (б) \Voehi*kh, p. 315. (e) Above cited, p. 193. „ (d) Medical Transactions, vol. vi. p. -!-•