EIGHTH DIVISION. I OF THE ELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 2579. There is scarcely a Surgical Operation which can be fully per- fected on a diseased body by one single, simple act. All rather con- sist of several manoeuvres following, according to determined rules, and distinguished by the name of Steps of the Operation (OperalionsacteM Germ?) One of these is the special object of the operation, and the others must necessarily precede or follow, to effect this object, and bringJ about the restoration of the patient. The object of the operation is always the same, but the manner and way of attaining it may be very dif- ferent, and this difference may consist either in the difference of the severs steps of the operation, or of the entire way by which the attainment of the object of the proposed operation may be effected. Hence arises then distinction between Operative proceedings and Methods oj Operating. 2580. The Method of Operating is the compass of the regulated mode? of proceeding, by w hich the object of an operation in any peculiar way is attained. In the various methods of operating, therefore, not merely are different parts cut through and in very different directions, but the prac-.< tice of the methods of operating is so peculiar, that the one method does not exclude the other. . , , - Q 2581. Upon the choice of the method of operating depends for the most part the successful or unsuccessful result of the operation, just as upo the choice of the operative proceedings rests the facility of its execution. The choice of the mode of proceeding is therefore of little consequ • and depends commonly upon the operator himself. Hence also, tne • riety of opinions as to the preference of the mode of proceeding m genera is greater than upon that of the method. > . 2582. In deciding upon the preference of the various methods of P ‘ tion the following circumstances must be attended to. Tirs . 1 , fct.r lire feu »■. •-•it ESi M fit bl fea % r important organs must be injured, consequently the loss or eatiuc ^ organic parts caused by the operation, the pain, and the trauma i tion depending thereon is least. Second. The Letter met hoc mus be most fitting for the greater number of cases. Third. Inis 11 1 oJJ sist in the manoeuvres, which do not make the operator depent (be H»i »iot in ■—? ■■■ . * .» .:ii of the ,1 accidental circumstances, but which rest completely on tne ^ j operator. Hereon and upon the nature of the parts to be ''foun(’ra’ing. founded safety and facility in the execution of the method ot o[ Fourth. The quickest cure which can be effected by the opera ioi ■ an(j 2583. Many operations are subject to certain and geneia (0 these*' but few’cases require any variation in the way of their execu mn ; ] belong, for instance, all amputations, the operation for - perfectly '1 bare arteries, and so on. Such operations may tl,e^fore P tbe the dead body. rIhere are, howe\er, learnt by due practice upon