293 OF VARIX. II pin (an insect-pin) is to be carried transversely through the vein, and eft there for from two to six days with rest, and corresponding dietetic reatment of the patient. On the second day swelling around the pin >egins, which is caused partially by the clot formed in the vein, partially iy the slight inflammatory process set up in, and around it. The swelling ncreases on the following days, becomes at the wound, more rarely hroughout its whole extent, of a pale rosy-red colour, and at the same ime the vessel, as well as its neighbourhood, without pain on pressure, eels more compact. The earlier this appearance sets in, the sooner may the pin be removed. With small veins one pin is sufficient; but in he larger it is better to introduce two or three, in which case the one rings the front, the other the hind wall of the vessel nearer together, nd the third is thrust through the middle of the vein. Experience is Strongly in favour of the symptoms ensuing, and of the results arising rom this mode of treatment (a). In the second proceeding, a pin is to >e thrust transversely under the vein, which is to be raised up by it, so that : second pin may be thrust through it twice, in the longitudinal direction. Vith this object a second pin generally straight or curved, round or Lattened, is introduced through the skin and vein, about a line below the lace where the transverse pin cuts the axis of the vessels, carried up- wards beneath that pin, and thrust from within outwards through the vein 8 nd skin—the two pins, forming a cross, are to be surrounded with a thread, i )ne pin may be also thrust transversely through the skin and vein, and a thread twisted round it, like a figure of QO. The pin is to be left till it ^ave excited inflammation (about five days.) The little fistulous wound oon heals. This mode of treatment should be prefei'red before all the 1st, on account of its slightness, of its less pain and danger, and the cer- inty of the cure (h). Experience, however, shows that wide and deep- reading phlegmonous inflammation, with fever, redness of the tongue, oty colour of the teeth, irritation of the mucous membrane of the amach, swelling of the inguinal glands, extensive suppuration, and even ath may ensue from this practice (c). According to Franc (r/), the n should be thrust through the skin near the vein, carried behind it, rust out at the other side, and a thread wound around it. Two days are fficient to produce complete obliteration of the vein (1). Fricke (e) troduces, with a moderately strong needle, one, and, in great varicosity, yeral threads dipped in oil through the vein, and ties the ends upon the in in a bow. In from twenty-four to thirty-six hours the threads are n be removed, the patient kept quiet, without any dressing, and, on the ippearance of inflammation, cold water or lead wash are to be applied. 183G, p. (e) Mi en par- Ilambur (/) Lcjohs Orates. Hamburg. Zeitsch, vol. i. pt. i. p. 12.’