TREATMENT OF LYMPHATIC BRONCHOCELE. 659 i[ arge portion of the expanded and tied vessel. I have, however, noticed in he contrary, as the growth of the swelling may be continued by the en- u argement of the inferior thyroideal artery and its communication with ;« he superior (2). In general this does not happen, and perhaps can only, f vhen the inferior as well as the superior artery is at the same time nlarged («). It must, however, be always remembered, in deciding u n tying the superior thyroideal artery, that if it be much changed by ■disease, the ligature will not effect its obliteration, but bleeding must , nsue, which in many instances will have an unhappy result. (1) P. von Walther (b) has successfully practised tying the superior thyroideal ms rtery as above directed, in a case of aneurysmal struma. | [(2) In confirmation of Chelius’s statement regarding the growth of the broncho- dLele, after tying the superior thyroideal artery, although the swelling had at first de- ! Ijreased even considerably, Crawford (c) states that Coates informed him as to the - nal result of his operation above mentioned, “ though the case proceeded extremely g’ell for some time after the patient was discharged and lost sight of, yet the tumour ibsequently, he understood, enlarged, and in the end destroyed the woman by suffoca- v on.” Also, in a case of Wickham’s of Winchester, the largest he ever saw, “ after the ■gature ol the artery, the swelling gradually diminished for about six weeks, after ti hich it as gradually regained its former size. It seemed that the decrease of the tumour Bmntinued so long as the part of the gland, which had been supplied by the vessel, remained iarithout nourishment; but as soon as the supply was restored by the anastomosing ranches from the opposite superior and the two inferior thyroideal arteries, the swelling tJ9i;tnrned to its former dimensions. Such, I should conceive, would be the case unless all tv ie thyroideal arteries were obliterated, which it would be a very difficult task to accom- jsh, if not altogether impracticable from the depth of the lower vessels.” (p. 331.)] j The circumstance above noticed in regard to the enlargement of the inferior thyroi- jrsea1 artery has led to the proposal of tying it also. Velpeau (d), Dietrich fe), and E^p?ANN bL) have given special directions for finding this artery. ' ,“ere may be cases in which after tying the superior thyroideal artery, the broncho- !. e upes not properly decrease, on account of the existing enlargement of the inferior Sfcliyroideal artery. But as regards the mode of tying the latter vessel, that which has risien already mentioned as to the direction of the cut for tying the superior artery ■ophes to it also. Only if the inferior thyroideal can be decidedly distinguished, bv its’ 0 ulsation and size at the lower part of the bronchocele, may it be decided to tie it and jpie direction of the cut must then be decided by the situation of the vessel. In a case SimTvi Cl T tlie suPerior thyroideal artery and the bronchocele had diminished 1 fel‘thf inferior artery pulsate distinctly, and could have undertaken 1 " V;h .ease, lf t]ie diminution of the swelling and the subsidence of the previous pomptoms had not rendered it unnecessary. y R 2178. Lymphatic bronchocele, if not exceedingly large, and of very I >ng duration may be always cured by the use of internal and external il'-medies, or at least be so far controlled, that the disease produces no fnous inconvenience. ? rfn7!9' l11 the remedies wllich have been employed internally for I [fferent'f burnt,SponSe has bee» most used. It lias been given in J nerent forms, and with various combinations; but according to my ex- fodnTLrn°St fdVantaf°US!y With retl foxf?love- Iodine, which is consi- i et’s („\ ^°St .importa"t elemfint m the burnt sponge, has, from Coin- 1, \J) experience and recommendation acquired great repute. Forty- l Srtl. and in nouveau remMe centre I fi(b) In I ‘ Annalen> ▼Ol. i. parti. >' Wnnde vol0rp 6M. Lhir,,r«il! und A,,gpn- I)[(/) of 1’ractical Medicine, vol. i. *rij, ISA,.'' 8v0Anat°mie Oldfufgicnle, vol. ii. l^U1fencllen der Sohlagadem, p. 95. ^’®se^rtim^nV. dc •)'®ilnd‘8 Artcr‘'s thyreoideia, ' -"n*,T83^ ,0nb"S “d 8anandam Strumam! le Goitre ; in Bibliotheque Universelle de Geneve voL xiv. p. 180. 1820.—Nouvelles Recherchos su^ , e"ets oe 1 Iodine et sur les precautions a suivre ilans Ie traitement (lu Goitre par ce nouveau re- mede; in Bibl. Univers., vol. xvi. p. 140. 1821. —Formey, Bemerkungen iiber den Kropf und rsachricnt uber ein dagegen neu entdecktes Mittel. Berlin, 1820.-—Ghaefe, Ueber die Indicationen, nacli welclien die Iodine gegen Krdpfe anzuwenden ist ; in Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde.. vol. n. p. 016. y 2 u 2