588 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; Cheselden did, and as is stated by Douglas. “ I begin my incision of the externa t integuments,” says he, “ about half an inch below the commissure of the ossa pub in, <j I the left side of the raphe, and pursue it by a quick stroke, obliquely outwards an. I downwards between the anus and obtuse process of the ischium, ending somewhat lowe 1 than the basis of that process. As soon as the integuments are thus divided, I introduc I the fore and middle fingers of my left hand: with the last I keep back the lip of th 1 wound next the raphe, and with the index press down the rectum. I then make 1 second incision, almost in the same direction with the first, but rather nearer to th 1 raphe and anus, and sufficiently deep to divide the transversalis penis, and as much ( 8 the levator ani and ligamentous membrane as will make the prostate gland perceptibl I by my finger; I then, with the index of my left hand, feel for the sulcus of the stall I which serves as a conductor to my knife for opening the membranous part of th 3 urethra, and afterwards for dividing part of the prostate; the rectum is likewise by m ; fingers kept out of the way of the knife in the next part of the operation, which I effec 1 in the following manner. Hitherto I hold the blade of my knife like a pen, between th I forefinger and thumb, and resting on the middle finger of my right hand, with the bad >1 of the blade uppermost, but now I take it between the forefinger and thumb of my righ, 4 hand, with the handle towards the palm of my hand on the inside, the back of the blad t facing the inside of the index of the right hand : I then turn the back of this hand tha f holds the knife downwards, and convey the knife to'the membranous part of the urethra | by gliding the under fingers of my right hand on the index of my left hand, whid k serves as a conductor of the knife to the gland ; as soon as I perceive that, I feel for th i groove of the staff with the index of my left hand, with which I convey the convex edg-4 of the knife into the membranous part of the urethra, as much laterally as is possible j and as nigh to the prostate. When I am clearly in the sulcus of the staff, I turn th< i back of my knife as much downwards as I can, to avoid wounding the rectum, as I tha, push the blade of the knife along the groove of the staff into the body of the gland, sliding the knife on the convexity of its edge, till it has divided nearly half th length of that gland ; and if I wish to cut a little more of it, I incline the handle of m; knife a little downwards, and towards the left ischium. The point of the knife will thei. drop into the groove of the staff, and by drawing the knife in this situation towards mt I shall certainly make good the wound of the prostate, so as near two-thirds of it mar be divided in the operation. This last stroke of my knife is what is generally caller | “ cutting from within outwards.” I then introduce the beak of the common gorge ret: I &c.” (p. 229-32.) . .. “ The next step of the operation,” says Brodie, “ is the continuance of the inoisioi along the posterior part of the urethra, and the dilatation of the neck of the bladder Some recommend this to be accomplished by means of the common scalpel, with whid you have made the external incisions; the point being steadily introduced along th j groove of the staff, with the edge turned outwards, so as to divide the left side of th prostate. This was Cheselden’s mode of operating.—[Not his last mode of operating certainly, as I have shewn from his own words.—J. f. s.]—After having incised thu prostate and neck of the bladder, Cheselden introduced the blunt gorget, so as todilat* the wound still further, answering at the same time the purpose of a conductor for th forceps; and, as far as I can learn, this method was followed generally by the EngulBj Surgeons up to the time of Sir Caesar Hawkins,” who “caused one side of the gorge to be ground to a sharp edge, and thus converted the blunt into a cutting Sor£"- j * * * I cannot but think that there are some considerable objections to it (th j cutting gorget.) The incision is made as it is being thrust into the bladder. In®0W| sequence of the thick wedge-like form of the instrument, the prostate, and especially*J hard and enlarged prostate, offers to it considerable resistance. A certain quantity o j force is necessary for its introduction; and if that force be not well applied, the beat I may slip out of the groove of the staff into the space between the bladder and ^ 1 • rectum, an accident which is too surely followed by the death of the patient. * . . j Although I have very frequently used the cutting gorget, I generally make the mast I cf the prostate with the knife,” of which “ the blade is broad enough to divide a I siderable portion of the prostate as it enters the bladder, without its being neeessaryi increase the size of the incision by cutting laterally afterwards ; and instead of a ***1 point, it terminates in a beak, fitted to the groove of the staff. In ordinary c*®®* I knife of this kind with a single cutting edge is sufficient, but in cases of very fr calculi there are good reasons for dividing both sides of the prostate. There» t ; jection to this being done that I can discover, and for such cases I have been ,or ' j time in the habit of using a double-edged knife with a beak projecting from itss ^ , Havin'7 made the opening into the membranous part.of the urethra; you are to