405 RANULA. ■ evoking into which, Clink observed a large ranula thrusting back the tongue, which he istantiy punctured with a lancet, and relieved the patient from the threatening suffoca- on.—J. F. S.J 1766. Passing; over Parers opinion of the nature of ranula, that it ..insisted of a cold, moist, clammy, matter, which proceeded from the .rain to the tongue, two different views have been taken of it. First, It ,as been considered as an encysted swelling by Fabr. ab Aquapendente, n Iionis, IIeister, Meckel, in part, von Winter, Syme, and others. Secondly, As a stoppage or closure of the Whartonian duct, from which esults the retention of the spittle of the submaxillary gland and the disten- oi ion of the walls of the duct in consequence of the spittle collected in it; n opinion first started by Munichs (a), afterwards more especially de- clared by Louis, and up to the present time held by most writers. This > pinion rests specially upon the state of the fluid contained in the swel- ing, which, similar to white of egg in colour and consistence, by long conti- mance in the swelling, becomes viscid, dusky, and frequently mixed with tony concretions (1); and upon the possibility, in many instances, by •pening the obstructed Whartonian duct with a probe, to discharge the luid and effect the cure. Reisinger, who frequently found, by examina- ion with a delicate probe, that the Whartonian duct was still pervious, apposes, on the contrary, that the thickening of the spittle was not merely he consequence of it being retained, and that this was always in propor- ion to the time the swelling had existed, but that unnaturally secreted pittle perhaps accompanied with atony of the duct, caused the develop- nent of ranula, and that it was not merely formed by the distended .Vhartonian duct, but that not unfrequently the distended Whartonian luct burst, and the secreted fluid poured out, and was contained in a sac .f cellular tissue, not unlike a cystic tumour; in which way the various orms of ranula, as well as the often occurring transparency of the Whar- onian duct could be accounted for. This opinion has also been more ecently put forth by ITennemann (b). Kyle endeavoured to deny that ■anula depends on distension of the duct; inasmuch as it is imposible, that o small and thin a duct could bear so great distension as is observed in arge swellings of this kind ; that the fluid contained is not at all similar o spittle, but of the consistence of fat oil, brownish, like yellow olive oil, dammy, clear, and transparent; and according to the statement of the Patient after the operation, tasteless, and that these conditions are really rom the first, and not as Louis supposes, similar to white of egg. When •welling has existed a longer time the submaxillary glands swell, inflame, he and harden, by which their functions are destroyed. Lastly, If the spittle continue to flow, as after Dupuyt ren’s mode of operating, the dis- use diminishes, at least it never increases, which, however, is not always he case. Upon these grounds, Kyll holds to the old opinion ; according 0 him, the swelling has a sac which is probably an hydatid. [0) T he elder Cline himself had a stony concretion in one of the submaxillary ucts, which was readily removed by a slight cut through the membranes covering it. I im not aware, however, that it was accompanied with any degree of ranula.—J. F. S.] 1767. As unfortunately up to the present time pathologico-anatomical > .starvations upon the seat of ranula are entirely wanting, it is impossible 0 &ive a very decided judgment upon these different opinions, and still (a) Praktykc ilfir Heilkunde, p. 141. (.6) Beitruge Meklcnburg. Acrzte zur Med. und Chirurg., vol. i.