STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 361 it o-ently, against the stricture, in the expectation that it will gradually become dilated lid allow the point to enter; then depress the handle, and pass it into the bladder, rovided that you can do so readily, and without the application of force, but not other- ise. Two or three days afterwards, (and the interval ought to be never less than this, id sometimes it ought to be greater,) introduce the sound which has been passed .fore, withdraw it, and introduce another of a size larger ; and thus go ou dilating the ricture until that part of the urethra has regained its natural diameter. If in the nirse of these proceedings you are in doubt whether the sound has reached the bladder r not, you may easily determine the point in question by introducing a catheter, ou might, indeed, use the catheter from the beginning, but that the openings near the aint, and its comparative lightness, render the introduction of it less easy than that of rie solid instrument. This method of treatment is applicable to a large proportion of le cases which you will meet with in practice: first, to those of old and indurated stric- ires, which the common bougie is incapable of dilating; secondly, to those in which, in msequence of some improper management, a false passage has been formed, into which ie point of a common bougie will easily penetrate, but which an inflexible instru- ment may be made to avoid; thirdly, to those in which, from long-continued disease, r id without any previous mismanagement, the urethra has become distorted and its irface irregular; and, fourthly, to several recent cases, in which the smooth, polished irface gives less pain to the urethra, and is less likely to induce spasm, than the softer, •iat less smooth surface of a common bougie, (p. 51-4). “ In treating a stricture of the urethra with the gum catheter, you are to introduce it and itlow it to remain day and night in the urethra and bladder. If the patient can bear it i be retained for a sufficient length of time, the stricture will become dilated not only i the size of the instrument employed, but to a size considerably larger. Perhaps you ) ill be able to introduce the catheter without the wire or stilette. Do so, if possible. If iot, yon should employ one mounted on a strong, unyielding iron stilette, having a flat- bed handle, like that of a common sound or staff. Being so mounted, it is more readily irected into the bladder than when mounted in the usual way on a piece of thin flexible ire. When the gum catheter has entered the bladder, withdraw the stilette, and leave le catheter with a wooden peg in its orifice, which the patient is to take out whenever e.has occasion to void his urine, it being at the same time secured by a suitable andage. After three or four days, you may withdraw the catheter for twelve hours ; ', if much suppuration be induced in the urethra, you may withdraw it for a longer eriod. Then introduce another catheter, larger than the first; and thus you may, in ie course of ten days or a fortnight, dilate a very contracted urethra to its full diameter, his is a very certain and expeditious method of curing a stricture. You may by'these eans sometimes accomplish as much in the course of ten days as you would accom- lish in three months by the occasional introduction of the bougie. This method is irticularly applicable, first, where time is of much value, and it is of great conse- uence for the patient to obtain a cure as soon as possible; secondly, where a stricture gristly and cartilaginous, and therefore not readily dilated by ordinary methods ; nrdly, where, from the long continuance of the disease, the urethra has become regular in shape, or where a false passage has been made by previous mismanagement, nder these circumstances, if you can succeed in introducing a gum catheter, and let remain for a few days in the bladder, you will find your difficulties at an end ; the ^regularities will disappear, and the false passages will heal; fourthly, there is still oother class of cases in which this method of treatment is particularly useful. I , .to those in which a severe rigor follows each introduction of the bougie. This isposition to rigor is such, that it is sometimes impossible to proceed with the treatment lllnt aU way- Observe, in these cases, when the rigor takes place. It seldom nip * l 6 usu. ot’the bougie immediately. It almost always occurs soon after the on h , -S V0lded hls urme> aild seems to arise not as the immediate effect of the opera- ilatJl v con)equence of the urine flowing through the part which the bougie has ’ ".°T’ ”.,lnSte, , a bou£ie you use a gum catheter, and allow it to remain, ap resorted to it.” (p. 57-9.) noted °vShTthe barmlessness of plaster bougies is asserted by the high authority just equentlv ?,a"r°!t,aCC<’rd 7-lth that statement, for I am quite sure that they are very 'jury mav mischievous, and that, even with the greatest caution, much all of thp „ //°ne -Jy *heir Wiently slipping from the stricture and perforating the rethra in front of it, and producing false passages, and not very uncom-