187 TREATMENT. U thick below and above, so that the knee appears as if deformed; the back of the foot I (instep) is very much arched; and walking is performed generally not with bended ■ knees. In splay-foot the axis of the foot is not changed, the ankle is very prominent, is ■lower than usual, and touches the ground ; the whole sole of the foot touches the earth ; ■ below the outer ankle a cavity is formed, the depth of which depends on the degree of the deformity; the heel cannot be drawn up; the outer ankle is distinctly felt; the muscles of the calf are not greatly wasted; the back of the foot is not properly arched, but hits at the tarsus an unnatural flattening and breadth ; walking is generally per- formed with the knees bent. This distinction, however, depends on no actual difference, but is only consequent on simultaneous contraction of the muscles, that is, those of the calf, and on shortening of the Achilles’ tendon; therefore, in such cases, the division of that tendon may be sufficient (a). 1385. In slighter degrees of splay-foot, and in young persons, the foot may be rubbed twice a-day with spirituous fluids, then wrapped up in a bandage, moistened with spirits of wine ; cold baths are to be taken from time to time, or a laced leather stocking worn, which equally encloses the foot and leg, and a shoe, with a strong tin plate, which is convex from behind forwards to the metatarsal bones. According to Dupuytren, a shoe, with a flexible elastic sole, and raised in height from half to three- quarters of an inch ; according to Rognetta, a raised shoe, together with swathing the foot in a bandage moistened with camphorated spirit, which is to be looked to and tightened twice a-day; according to Stromeyer, a boot, in the middle of which a piece of leather is fastened, confining the middle of the foot from below, upwards, and from within, outwards, then runs pointed, and is fastened by a slit in the upper leather at the outside of the foot, to a buckle. In weakly persons an internal strengthening treatment is at the same time proper. In old persons, and in a high degree f splay-foot, exutories are to be kept long to the sole of the foot, blisters upon its inner edge and on one part of the sole, and suppuration kept up ' y acrid ointment, for the protection of the foot-swathing, and a laced boot Stromeyer.) Liston recommends a plaster of mercury and iodine to the swelling of the front end of the first metatarsal bone, and if this he insufficient, the head of the bone is to be xremoved with cutting forceps. If the splay-foot be great and dependent on diseased contraction of the muscles, against diwliich mechanical assistance is fruitless, Held (6) proposes dividing the m. peronei and indeed the tendons of the longus and medius. The peronei contained in a common sheath are most prominent from four to six lines above the outer ankle; a double-edged bistoury is to be introduced flat beneath them from behind forwards, and the edge turned gainst them. The tendon of the m. peroneus medius has here still some muscular hbres. The tendons of these muscles are enclosed in proper sheaths from four to six i lines under or before the ankle, but they lie so close together that they can he divided S^at the same time, as the knife is introduced between them and the heel-bone, from aabove downwards, and somewhat from before, backwards. The tendons of the m. I medius may be divided also four or five lines from the base of the fifth meta- 1 tarsal bone. ® the cases of splay-foot which I have seen, the cause of the mischief appeal’s to have en principally in the inner plantar, or calcaneo-navicular ligament; and it is gene- •auy accompanied with tenderness in this neighbourhood. I have usually directed nU.L leechln6 1,11 a11 tenderness had subsided, and perfect rest; but the relief has 'my been temporary.—J. F. S.J > (“) Stromeveii's case, above cited, p. 95. (i) Above cited, p. 63.