554 STONE IN THE BLADDER; by the result of the injections, by the modes of treatment, to be men- tioned when crushing the stone is treated of, by the extraction of sin<d fragments of stone, its character at different periods can be ascertained Stones of oxalate of lime would be dissolved with most difficulty (a). The most recent experiments made on this subject are those of Pelouze {b), fror which it appears—First, that the effect of different agents upon urinary stones is les upon the substances of which they consist, than upon the animal matter. Theoperlf ration proceeds very slowly, even out of the bladder. Second, that by drinks an- ■ baths a cure is scarcely ever effected. Third, that the result of injections, althoug they act more powerfully, is problematical, and the danger of inflammation is in : counterbalanced, as in lithotrity, by a quick destruction of the stone. Fourth, tka , although the combination of lithotrity with injections increases the probability of sue cess, yet it is most advisable to proceed with lithotrity (c). [Prout observes:—“ When the very weak state of the solvent that can be injected int : the bladder is taken into account, the consequent length of time necessary for continu ing the experiment, and above all the refractory nature of certain calculi, I confess am very much disposed to doubt if any solvent at present known can, in the grea majority of instances, be ever so administered as to produce the desired effect; any this, I believe, is the general opinion on the subject.” (p. 284.)] “ It has been observed by chemists,” says Brodie, “ that lithic acid admits of being dissolved by a strong solution of pure or caustic alkali. It has been also observer ! that calculi composed of the phosphates are acted on by the mineral acids, and it may no' unreasonably be entertained as a question, how far those changes, which take place out o the body, may be produced while the calculus is still in the bladder of a living person * * * I fear those who have expected by these methods to relieve patients of lithic acic calculi, have much overrated the effects of alkaline lixivia on them. The fact is, tha although alkalies certainly are capable of acting on this kind of calculus, their action except when employed in a very concentrated form, is so inconsiderable, as to amount almost to nothing. Neither the stomach nor the bladder is capable of bearing the quan - tity of alkali which is necessary to the production of the desired effect; and even if they were, it would be impossible to maintain so constant a supply of the alkali as would be necessary to the destruction of a calculus of even moderate dimensions. Mr.- Brande, moreover, has observed, that the carbonate of potass and soda have no action on lithic acid ; that they are incapable of dissolving it; and that if the pure alkali be taken by the mouth, it never reaches the bladder in this state, but only in that of a carbonate ; and here then is an insuperable objection to all attempts to dissolve lithic (uric) acid calculi by means of alkalies taken into the stomach. When there is a lithic (uric) acid calculus in the bladder, and the lithic acid diathesis prevails hi the system, the first effect of alkalies taken into the stomach is to render the urine neutral; thus preventing the further increase of the calculus. So far, then, alkalies are useful. But if they are administered in still larger quantity, so as to render the urine alkaline, the phosphates begin to be deposited. The calculus then continues to grow even more- rapidly than before; but its composition is altered, and layers of the triple phosphate are deposited on the lithic acid nucleus. Such is the view of the subject taken by Mr. Brande.” (p. 290-92.) . Brodie shows the fallacy of the statements in reference to the presumed solution o stone, by observing that the fragments occasionally passing, are to, be referred to frac- ture of the stone from mechanical causes, as already mentioned ; or that the suppose lill U V-Cl CIO ten mtuuoutu 5 * • fragments are in reality new formations, and the result of the medicines employed. lltl^lilClito tilt, iti icaiiij ‘wu cut iiiuuvuDj v As to the cessation of the symptoms, it is no proof the solution of the stone, as ny w - use of medicine, a fresh coating may be given to it of a less irritating character, am the stone still exist, as in the case of Admiral Douglas mentioned by Astle Cooper (d). . , - Brodie, however, considers that “ the mineral acids undoubtedly exercise a urea chemical action on calculi composed of the phosphates than alkalies do on those w ic are composed of lithic (uric) acid. * * * I found that where the membrane of the bladder was not inflamed at all, or inflamed only in a slight deg ^ the proportion of nitric acid might be increased to two minims or two minims ana hall'of the concentrated acid to an ounce of distilled water, without auy ill cousequ fa) In the British and Foreign Quarterly Me- dical Review, vol. xii. p. 398 ; and also in Jones, ollc ‘ ’ ! ' *“ l'Acad. des Sciences p. 1 IS, all has been collected in reference to the eftects’of Injections upon Stones. (b) Comptcs-rendus de vol. xiv. p. 499. 1842. (c) Wii.lik and .ToNts, above cited. (rf) Lectures on Surgery, vol. n. P- -’*■