660 TREATMENT OF eight grains of iodine are to be dissolved in an ounce of spirits ( wine, and of this ten drops are to be taken thrice a day, in a glass < water sweetened with sugar. After eight days the dose is to be increase' to fifteen drops, and some days after to twenty drops. It is observed i this treatment, that within the first eight days, the skin over the bronchi, eele is less tense,, the substance of the swelling softer, the several parts It- the gland more distinct, and its removal gradual. Small bronchocek usually disappear in eight or ten weeks, and very large ones diminish. I this employment of iodine it is noticed, that besides the softening and re moval of the bronchocele, usually the pulse becomes quickened, and tha there are other variations from the natural condition. On the setting i of these symptoms the iodine must be at once left off, and only agak employed eight or ten days after, when they have subsided (1). Very large doses of iodine, or its too long continued use cause palpita; tions of the heart, dry, frequent cough, loss of sleep, quick wasting, los of power, swellings of the bones, tremors, a painful hardness of the bronchocele, sometimes wasting of the breasts, considerable and continue! loss of appetite (2). These symptoms may be always removed by warn bathing, valerian, quinine, volatile alkalies, and other antispasmodics; ant the painful hardness of the bronchocele by leeches and softening fomenta tions. In consequence of these effects of iodine, it must always be givei with caution, and with due reference to the constitution of the patient and the condition of the bronchocele. Very tense, painful bronchocele make no difference ; however, if there be in addition spasms or biliou; symptoms, leeches, softening fomentations, antispasmodic, and anti gastric remedies must be employed. The use of iodine is contraindicatec in pregnancy, in the disposition to flooding, in incipient diseases of the breast, in wasting fevers, and in irritable and nervous constitutions. Iodine acts especially on men, who have no other ailment than broncho, cele, if it occur in later life, or the patient have reached manhood. V hei the symptoms endanger life, or become fatal from the use of iodine, theiit cause depends on inattention to the points above noticed ; or in the.“®dp in which the iodine is employed (par. 776.) As in using tincture of by mixing it with sugared water, the iodine is thrown down, and so ge - into the stomach in an undissolved state, it seems preferable to use itin mode prescribed by Lugol, half a grain to a whole grain of iodine is solved in a pint of distilled water, to be taken during the day (]>ar• 1 or a solution of hydriodate of potash (par. 856) may be given, from w 1 I have never noticed the symptoms just stated. * The other remedies which have been also employed in bronchocele, as c;1Jc|n€ 5^ shells, barytes, carbonate of soda, of potash, soap, vinegar of squills, oxysulp iu antimony, digitalis, belladonna, and many others, are some of them little longer l and some given in combination with burnt sponge. Graefe considers the following as very efficacious:— < r Potass, tart. Spong. ust. Sacch. alb. aa 3ss. Ammon, hydrochl. Rad. imperator. Ciunam. acut. aa 5ij. Sulpli. antim. aurat. 9j. Piper, long. 5i. . Misce ut fiat pulvis svbtutssimus. and have large lymphatic Jtronch^^ Persons who are little irritable, pasty, ana nave targe iympi.»»- “'irritable should take daily, morning and evening, a small heaped-up teaspooniui. The wasted persons, whose bronchocele is small, should take the same dose only oi • { ^ remedy is very efficacious, though most nauseous when swallowed dry, an . t 1 1C rUn nntinuf folrn if i tv trofnr t * — continued longer if *= Mioe, tin. -tee* U >«di” [(1) Inglis objects to Coindet’s mode of em[