764 CANCER IN NERVES; ulcers are still small, they are generally only made worse by commoj treatment. They are frequently found existing at the same time wit! external and internal cancerous disease. Ulcers, specially on the face, and wings of the nose, and the like, which without pair without a hard base, without everted hard edges, without fungous growths, withou secretion of ichor, spread in all directions, and destroy the parts without distinction o their organization, without our knowing where they will go, have, in common witl , cancer, only the destructive spreading, and the general circumstance that they car ordinarily he brought to heal, only by destroying their surface. These are phagedeni. ulcers, stinking, eating, tettery sores, and form a contrast with the scabby Herpes exedens which on the face often causes the most frightful destruction, and in general can only b made to heal by destroying the diseased portion of skin. 2401. Cancer in glands always begins as scirrhus, and presents th( symptoms above described (par. 2392.) 2402. Cancer in mucous membranes is developed either in form o: polyps, which are hard, uneven, dusky, red, and painful; often bleed o: themselves, or, on the slightest movement; ulcerate quickly ; exhibit the same symptoms as a cancerous ulcer, and on examination, present the same condition as scirrhus; or, under the form of hard, wart-like excrescences*! or as hardening of the mucous membrane, which runs into ulceration. 2403. Cancer in the bones shows itself as osteosarcoma, or osteostea- toma ; and these tumours may have primarily a scirrhous condition, or the cancerous nature may be developed in them at a later period. 2404. Cancer of the nerves exists as a hard firm swelling, which inter- nally shows its scirrhous nature, and seems to belong to the neurilema rather than to the medullary substance. Sometimes the tumour is seated- on a stalk with which the neurilema is confluent; sometimes it is formed; by the swelling of the nerve itself. Their size varies from that of a pea to that of a nut, and larger. These swellings arise sometimes of them- selves, sometimes after external violence, most commonly on the super- ficial nerves of the upper limbs. They increase slowly, feel hardish, are tense, seem often filled witli fluid ; they are very painful, specially on motion, and particularly on being moved from above downwards ; a sudden movement of the swelling in this direction produces on the bnurn and nervous system a sensation like that of an electric shoe'• tumour adheres to the neighbouring parts, and draws them into the sam diseased condition. Not all tumours of nerves have this cancerous character. They are often mere c— sequences of previous inflammation, and originate in increased and a teru a they are often formed by unnatural exudation, in which ease examina - i:ve cavity, of which the walls are the neurilema, filled with thin, coagulable ’ # the serum of the blood; or between the nervous threads, which are presswis T“'ds softish, but constantly becoming firmer substance is formed ; or in the “erV w themselves, oblong vesicles are formed, which at first are soft and trail.p ’ afterwards become harder, and by their increasing size, affect;the whole subst. jt the nerve, and the nerve above penetrates into the swelling, and below passe. Their size varies from that of a pea to that ofa nut, and bigger. I have seen a in the lower third of the thigh, on the ischiatic nerve, as large as a small melon, ^ had proceeded from the nervous mass itself, and was covered with MurUem characteristic of these tumours is always great painfulness on examining an them with the finger ; they however cause, especially when seated on l^®”^r^10tion. pain on moving the part, even without displacement, espec.^ aC. The pain is very severe, radiating in the course of the nerve, mlV * ain than a companied with cramp and convulsions of the part. Sometimes thereis hs p ^ ^ sensation of formication, and going to sleep, or even a palsied state ot P The1- re mo va^o f fl'ie tumour is the only remedy ; destructive remedies of all kinds liJ « M vi v ■ SR# a*. ,h Y 0.