SEROUS AND PURULENT COLLECTIONS IN 470 only lie on the diseased side, and the breathing is exceedingly difficult: ; he lie on the sound side; if the collection be on both sides he can onl i lie on his back with the upper part of the body raised. The ailing sic a is more distended, the ribs separated from each other, and their mov< a ments prevented. In consequence of the compression of the lung, an § the immobility of the chest on one side, the healthy half of the che i t must move more actively. Although the intercostal muscles and tl. * external muscles of the breast be not inflamed, yet an oedematous swellin r occurs at certain spots, at least these muscles feel thicker. This swellin - ^ often spreads itself further over the diseased side of the body. If thei > ' be much fluid collected, pulsation is communicated to it from the hear 4 so that it can be perceived to a great extent, though often very slightly £ and sometimes not at all. The heart itself may, by the pressure of tb o fluid, be thrust to the other side, and even upwards. The diaphragm may also in like manner be driven downwards, often to such extent that swelling is observed below the short ribs and in the upper region of th'i belly; the patient has therefore specially in the sitting posture, a sensa tion of weight and pressure on the diaphragm. A fluctuation in th chest is often observed, on examining the body, either with the ear alon or with the stethoscope, and especially absence of the respiratory nuirmui on that part, except at the root of the lung. A bleating noise, age phony, is observed when the collection is not very great, but it is lost whe that side of the chest is distended by the collection. It is most distinct a the lower end of the blade-bone opposite the nipple. On percussion th s chest does not yield the usual hollow, but a dull sound. The symptom of hectic fever, dry or moist cough, small pulse, puffiness of the coun tenance, oedematous swelling of the upper limbs, and the like, in a great o less degree, accompany these symptoms. measuring (mensuration) an unyielding baud is to be applied in an exactly hon J il direction from the spinous processes of the vertebra: to the middle of the breast < In zontal direction from the spinous processes u ..... ........... j_ bone upon the sound and on the diseased side. Piorry (a) has proposed to perfect thi I horizontal measure with a vertical one, for which purpose, whilst the patient sits o stands, the one end of a band is to be placed on the top of the collar-bone, near tb | shoulder, and the other on the last sternal rib near its tip. _ .. ■" B Tarral has proposed feeling the fluctuation. The patient must lie on the disease* side, one finger is then to be strongly pressed into the intercostal space, whilst aiiothe. I finger gives a short blow on the corresponding interspace, and at such distance that tw■ direction towards the impressing finger shall be as much as possible perpeudieular. ^ If the flat of the hand be laid upon the walls of the chest, a vibratory motion is e on speaking, which, according to Raynaud, will not be perceived if there be etnis I The mobility of the healthy, and the immobility of the diseased side in breathing, 1 also be observed by the feel. _ , , Percussion affords us the most certain sign of effusion into the cavity of the cn ^ I and discovers to us most of the changes in reference to its origin and course, its alte I tions and diminution. If effusion do not fill the cavity of the chest, it changes its p I according to the varying position of the patient, and, in consequence of its grav*t.V| __ I to the most depending part of the chest. In the sitting posture it occupies the spat*- ■ between the hind part of the diaphragm, the spine, and the ribs. As this space is narrow, a small quantity of the fluid can afford a dull sound to a pretty large exten • ^ ' the part corresponding to the surface of the fluid a clear pulmonary sound is observ • ^ ^ the patient lie on his back, percussion gives a clear sound in frout, but a dud 0 ; hind, and this also happens if the patient lie on his belly, or upon one or ot“^\ , the sound is always dull at that part to which the fluid sinks. If the whole 1 filled with fluid, it cannot alter its situation, and the dull sound is observe^ £ part. In circumscribed effusion also, where bounded by adhesions, the u j remains at the one spot, whatever posture the patient may assume. If the soun ^ tb£ j duller or more sonorous where previously it was not so, it may be presuu (a) Traite du Diagnostic, &c., vol. i. p.570. Paris, 183).