72 OPERATION FOR nearer the iliac spine, than to the front inguinal or external abdominal ring, liie direction of the neck of the bandage must correspond to that of Poupart’s ligament, to wit, from the side towards the share-bone. The edge of the pad must not descend over the bend of the groin. 1221. Femoral rupture may be strangulated in the external or in the internal aperture for the vessels ; the strangulation is generally very severe, and if reduction cannot be effected, the operation is soon indicated. The strangulation may also be situated in the neck of the sac, especially if a truss have been worn for a long time. Jaeger’s assertion (a) that no case of strangulation by the neck of the sac is known, I must deny. I would add, that in two cases the reduc- tion of the intestine was impossible, although the femoral ring was so considerably cut into that the finger could be readily passed into it, and turned about in every direc- tion. In both cases the strangulation was in the neck of the sac, after the division of which the bowel was easily reduced. [Key considers the usual seat of stricture in femoral rupture to be “ a tendinous band, which joins the fascia transversalis to the posterior margin of Pourp art's liga- ment, and which is quite distinct from Gimbernat’s ligament, upon which so much stress is laid by some as constituting the stricture.” (p. 14, note, part ii.)] 1222. The cut through the skin in the operation for femoral rupture should have an oblique direction, corresponding to Poupart’s ligament, and should extend half an inch over the swelling towards the iliac spine and the pubic symphysis. The cellular tissue is then to be divided as described (par. 1170) in the direction of the cut in the skin. The subja- cent fat, which in stout persons is often very considerable, lias a peculiar consistence, and often a resemblance to a piece of omentum, must be care- j fully separated from the bands, and the upper layer of the fascia lata cut through (1) ; the hernial sac is then to be exposed and opened. A case may occur in which the rupture protrudes through the opening of the upper layer of the fascia lata, in which instance, by cutting through the skin and cellular tissue, the operator comes at once upon the hernial sac. The opening of the hernial sac requires the greatest care, as there is always but little fluid, and frequently only a small loop of intestine uncovered by | omentum. The oblique cut, corresponding to the great diameter of the swelling, (Scarpa, Zang, and others,) is in general most suitable, because by dividing the upper layer of the fascia lata, Poupart’s ligament, is at the same time relaxed. In large swellings, or in stout persons, a T-shaped (Cooper, Lawrence, and others) or a transverse incision (Peleetan, Dupuytren) maybe made. The directly vertical incision is objectionable. [(1) It must not be forgotten that what Chelius here and elsewhere calls the upper j layer of the fascia lata is really the femoral sheath.—J. F. S.] 1223. If the strangulation be caused by the outer aperture of the femoral vessels, or by the opening of the external layer of tire fascia lata,, the tendinous edge of this aperture must be carefully cut into. If the strangulation be in the femoral ring, different modes of treatment are proposed. («.) In women the point of the forefinger or the director should be introduced between the neck of the hernial sac and the intestine, the 1 button-ended bistoury passed upon it, and the inguinal ligament cut into inwards and upwards. (b.) In men the button-ended bistoury should be introduced upon the director which has been passed on the inside, to protect the spermatic cord, and the inguinal ligament should be divided horizontally inwards, or rather a little obliquely upwards, two or three lines deep (Scarpa.) (a) Ilandworterbuch dor Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 591.