AMPUTATION THROUGH 928 side of the bone, at like height with the angle of the first cut, near th< lower edge of the bone, and makes, as it is drawn out along the under sur face of the metacarpal bone, to its junction with the toe, a cut which sepa rates the soft parts. The two cuts are now united by a transverse om running over the dorsal surface of the metatarsal bone about two finest below the angles of the two wounds ; and a second transverse cut on the. sole connects the front angles of both side cuts. 1 he two flaps thus bounded are separated from the bone as far as the upper angle of the sid. cut, turned back and held by an assistant, who at the same time .draw* back the skin on the dorsal surface of the foot as far as possible, whilst tin operator pulling the toe well inwards, away from the otheis, caniesa nar. row knife upon the back of the foot into the angle of the outer cut betweei the two bones, guides its edge towards the great metatarsal bone, cut: thron'd) the tendon, which he fixes with the thumb of his left hand, anc carries the knife at the edge of the retracted skin, over the dorsal surfac.: of the foot inwards, to cut through everything remaining attached to tin bone. The knife is then passed from the sole, between the two bones, ant carried along the edge of the retracted flap upon the under surface of the bone inwards. All the soft parts having been thus divided, are held back by a cleft cloth, and a thin splint being passed between the two metatarsal bones and held by an assistant, the bone is sawn through with i bow saw at the edge of the retracted skin. The bleeding is stanched either by tying the vessels or by cold water-j and after the wound has been properly cleansed, the flap is laid up over the bone in such way that its front edge is brought in close to the edge of the skin on the dorsal surface of the foot, and here fixed by severe, straps of sticking plaster applied from the sole. The edges of the wounc on the second metatarsal bone are also brought together with sticking plaster Cutting through the tendon is often very troublesome; it is best done by tin the pointSof the knife between it and the bone, with the edge toward the tendon, up to the broad part of the blade. 2730 When the condition of the soft parts requires the flap to be mad* on the inner side of the metatarsal bone of the great toe the skin then must be drawn inwards with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, straight knife thrust in vertically on the outer edge of the bone about finger’s breadth from its tarsal junction its point carried on the iMidefl. the bone to the sole, and pushed through. The knife is then came - along the bone, on its inner edge, to its junction with the great toe, an cuts out obliquely. A cut lengthwise between the great and next me^ tarsal bone is now made in the same manner as in the former ciue, continued to like height with the flap-cut; the flap is then held back, « knife placed in the upper angle of the longitudinal cut betwee , ®f the bones, and carried over the back of the metatarsal bone to the anS.le flan-cut The knife is next passed in below, between the bones, and ca round semicircidarly, in the sole, to the lower angle of the Sub the division of all the soft parts still remaining att^hedjo the bo^ J The cleft cloth ’ completed. th having been now applied, the bone is saw»| through in the same way as directed in the former case, and after t le 1 J tali been stanehed, the Hep b laid down over the bone on «Jith spending wound-surface of the second metatarsal bone, confi plaster, and dressed as already mentioned.