METHODS OF REPAIRING 832 by Dieffenbach, who has devoted himself to this branch of Surgery it) with peculiar zeal, and has contributed, by numerous clever operations fo various mutilations, to the establishment of Plastic Surgery. In England since Clrpue’s time, Plastic Surgery has found little sympathy (1). IIuti chison only, in 1818, and Davies in 1823 (a), have performed Rhino- plastv. In France, Delpech, in 1818, had performed plastic operations for the restoration of the scrotum, of the lips, and of the nose, at ^rss according to the Italian, and subsequently after the Indian manner. Aften him followed Mouleau and Thomain, but by Dupuytren, Lisfranc Martinet, Velpeau, Jobert, Labat, and Blandin, numerous opera tions were performed for the restoration of the nose and other niissinpj parts, and new methods were described. . It is however, remarkable, that in the greater extension of Plastic Sur - gery, from it being thus generally taken up, the restoration by means of; detached piece of skin, the Italian method has been rather avoided, ant that by flaps from the neighbouring skin, the Indian method, general; preferred-many, Graefe (J)> Dzondi (c)> Bunger (d), and others, haw performed that described as the second Indian method, in which, atte beating a portion of the skin of the rump with a wooden shoe till it hat swollen considerably, a triangular piece with the cellular tissue is cut out placed on the stump of the nose, the edges of which have been previously refreshed, and there fixed (e); Bcnger’s operation, however was tM only one which succeeded. This operation is very rarely performed a the completely detached skin has rarely sufficient life for organic con I “ThTchelius is in error on this point; Plastic Surgery has not been so much neglect* b^^i^E^g^and^tho^g^pr'^^ly r tL7iX(lof 2iS5B be added as another reason, that our young men are not m the habit of amusing selves with slicing off each other’s noses in sword duels («,).-J. T S. Q 2533. The following may be generally distinguished as tl , b, reparation by a fold of skin from the neighbourhood, eithe’ fixed . its edges, or by contact of its inner surface, which hate bee j P 111 a'l'orniaHon of a flap with a neck, upon which it is twisted1 rouii<d. ^ (i In-healing of a bridge of skin, in which the cut forming| is carried uninterruptedly in the wound formed by its reinot al, ai twisted upon the whole thickness of its stem. , , t the eeitr* y Removal of the flap, in which one of its edges >^^tached tofl.e ^ of the pert to be supplied, the loosened Hap being earned ^ ^ (,i) London Medical Repository, vol. xxi. p. 30 t) 8. — Jahres'rerieht i'lber dJ chimrgShe und a^genarrbelicl.e Institut zu Berlin. 1819 5 P-4|l- „ Rust's Maiazm, vol. i. p. o. Journal von Graefe und von Wai.theh, vol. iv. p. 559. i SIT —Huff Gazette de Santc, No. 1A- ‘ ltUT land's Journal, vol. xx*'1!' J!? f lhastic Surgery (/) For the complete history oil see Zeis, above cited. part i. P- 22 (g) Dieffenbach, above cited, par part ii. pp. 84,8o. 184.). Pif-TEENSAC" , hi dompare on these subjects Blandin, Zeis, and others.