EXCISION OF THE 990 duct and parotid gland, must be avoided. The m. masseter is cut through at the base of the lower jaw, the m. buccinator separated from the outer surface, and both together with the parotid gland raised up till the joint is laid bare. The soft parts are now separated from the inside of the bone, and the bone sawn through at its fore part, as already described, and the division of the soft parts from its inside completed. The bone is then depressed as much as possible, for the purpose of disengaging the coronoid process from the zygomatic arch, and rendering the m. temporalis tense. The condyle is thus thrown completely on the articular tubercle, so that there is perfect dislocation. The knife is now canned above the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle cut off, then over the semi- lunar notch between the two processes, and whilst the point of the knife is kept as close as possible to the condyle, the internal pterygoid muscle is divided. The jaw can now be further dislocated, which is so much the better, as thereby the condyle is still further separated from the ves- sels. Continuing close to the neck of the condyle, the stretched capsular ligament is cut into in front. The assistant pressing the jaw still more downwards, and moving it backwards, the condyle next becomes visible, and the knife being carried over it to the hinder ligament, cuts through it, whilst the edge of the knife is kept close to the bone, and the point not carried forward. After the bleeding vessels have been tied, the wound is brought together and managed as in resection of the jaw. von Graefe (cl), Mott (6), Langenbeck (c), and Jaeger (d) operate in this way, which is generally to be considered as the most safe and convenient. Cusack (e) con- siders it better, when in large tumours it is not thought right to lay hold of the bone sawn through in front, to grasp it between the angle and the condyle with strong forceps, and to press the condyle against the front of the capsular ligament, penetrate the joint, enlarge the opening with the button-ended bistoury, thrust the condyle out, and separate its other connexions with the capsule as well as with the external pterygoid muscle. . Jaeger speaks very decidedly against this sawing through the bone above its angle, and the after removal of the processes; in one case where the bone was completely separated from its branch, it was impossible to pull forward the remainder of the hone so as to separate the tendon of the temporal muscle from the coronoid process. I he joint must be opened in front, and by pulling forwards the head of the bone with a strong hook it must be gradually separated from its hinder connexions. Cutting through the tendon of the temporal muscle is then effected so easily that he advises the conch Ic should always be first set free. Holding the stump of the bone is especially difficult? and according to his experiments on the dead body, he considers sawing through lie branch is difficult, and the exarticulation not rendered easier by doing so. On the other hand, Schindler (/) justly observes that the exarticulation may he effected with complete certainty without sawing through the jaw at its hinder eno, when the tumour of the bone is not of great size ; hut that every large tumour raiders its removal indispensable, else the exarticulation may become unnecessarily difficult, and only be completed with some danger. In his case the swelling was so large. tn« even after removing its upper part, it was almost impossible to penetrate the joint, antt effect the disarticulation with safety. He found no difficulty in the division ot the mg cnsed bone and could grasp conveniently the remaining piece, although only an inch and a quarter long, with the fingers of his left hand, draw it well towards him, ana easily dislocate the condyle. The patient recovered. _ ,:n Mott von Graefe, and Dzondi have held the previous tying the common carotin artery necessary, but experience has shown that this is superfluous, is dangerous, ana no safeguard against bleeding (Jaeger, Schindler.) . ™ .. of the entire jaw be necessary, the bone must be sawn through in tM If the removt («) Journal, vol. iii. part ii. p. 257 (b) Above cited. (c) Tiensch, Dissert, de Osteosarcomate par- tiali Maxillrc inferioris, deque hujus Hesectione. (d) Above cited, p. 605. # (e) Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. «>«• (/) von Graefe und von W a ethers Journw