402 TRACHEOTOMY. « we had a twofold object; the one, that if the coin were lodged in any part from wine it might he safely extracted by the forceps, this method might be had recourse to; an the other that if relief could not be obtained in this manner, the artificial openin mifflit answer the purpose of a safety valve, and enable us to repeat the experiment ( inverting the body on the movable platform without the risk of causing suffocation The operation “ being completed, some attempts were made to reach the coin with tl forceps introduced through the opening The contact of the ms runmnt with the i. tern il surface of the trachea, however, induced on every occasion the most violent an S ToSing The coin was not seized, nor even felt.” The attempt was thereto, given im for the time, and repeated five days after with no better success He was le auiet for ten days to recover from the exhaustion he suffered, and the probe was pass, occasionally1 intothe wound to keep it open. At the end of this period, on tl.e third* dav after the accident, “ the patient having been placed on the platform, andbroiig) into the same position as formerly, the back was struck with the hand ; two or thn efforts to cough followed, and presently he felt the coin quit the bronchus,^firkin almost immediately afterwards against the incisor teeth of the upper jaw, and the: dropping1out of the mouth. A small quantity of blood drawn into tin trachea fro: the granulations of the external wound, being ejected at the same time. No spasm too place in the muscles of the glottis, nor was there any of that ?" Tl Which had caused uo small degree of alarm on the former occasion, (p. 288-91.) II case did well. Macrae (a) did not make any opening into the air-tube of his patier but on the third day after the mishap, had him “ strapped securely to a common char tot he might be eJily suspended from the rafters of the roof, with his head downwar in order“hat his chest might be conveniently shaken by a rapid succession of suddc smart ierks and that the weight of the bullet might favour its escape from its se in the lungs. He was kept depending as long as he could endure such an uncoil able position, and then placed in the horizontal posture for a few minutes to rest. W h Sfiy^uted he was hung up again. Upon being described the pain in his breast as having moved^ nearer to the top of ^ during the third suspension he joyfully exclaimed, thamg^a . t g • C it has°come in the Gaelic language,) immediately after a smart shaking and a few t» S4 5 £» 0nifhtHs1mode(Pof treatment be insufficient to dislodge the foreign ^ “ bronchus, it will be necessary to attempt its removal In’L^ ing it out with forceps. This operation was first performed, and suc^ttolyj^ ^ in 1833 (h), on a female of thirty-eight years, who r,ot . p .1 urine a entangled in the glottis, whilst eating some hashed meat By in of threatened suffocation, she succeeded in dislodging it, hut it passedto> the trachea,” * * * and lodged permanently under the g ^er^O C ;on, and tl tion. An attack of bronchitis supervened, followed by <»u|h ^d expe rec0TCre inflammatory attack was repeated several times; fromoneiiftees ‘ J of peculi; * * * The inspiration was somewhat noisy, and there was some g , sonorous rale perceived on applying the ear to the chest at the the foreign body had become fixed. The operation was performed, one Pa ^ opening laterally were introduced; a hard substance^could be patient was re-assured. and allowed to recover the elfects of th * P ‘ l{^, to seize it. Another instrument with the blades differently arrange’ ‘ \;aU,lv down the tube, at least three or three and a half inches, and the bon c of t) and extracted. * * * The result of the case was most satisfactory. l | lsoSU forceps was seven inches, (pp. 415, 16.) The se“nd °Pe[atl0n ^f a bov of df cessfullv by Dickin, of Middleton, near Manchester, in 183- ( )> . during*• years, whoVving “found a bell button, which lie placed in ,, w f ^ . n; a noccnrl Knnlrwnrds into the windmDe. He instantly 1 years, who having “found a bell button, wlncn ne piaceu m ^ do%rn. to/ ■ict of jumping, it passed backwards into the windpipe. He 11 - • distant niak« appearance in a state of suffocation, and was taken home afew yanlsdisWM, ^ ?he most violent efforts to respire; after which h.s breathing became ea.y, ^ (n) Liston's Practical Surgery. Fourth Edl- ti0(b)UvscA»; In Lancet, 1833,34, vol. ii. p. 419. —Also Liston's own notice of Ocalftirewyj"fromWhicli I have quoted, (r) Liston ; just cited.