ENCYSTED HYDROCELE. 511 £ degree of inflammation excited for the purpose of furthering the adhesion | of the rupture-sac (a). [I do not think that under any circumstances a conjoined congenital hydrocele and I; rupture, or a congenital hydrocele followed by protrusion of intestine, should be $ meddled with in any way beyond the use of cold astringent washes and the application i'of a truss. Injections or the introduction of tents I should think exceedingly dan- gerous practice, and on no account to be resorted to.—J. F. S.] 1974. Hydrocele of the general vaginal tunic (Hydrocele tuniccc vaginalis communis) is either an cedematous swelling in the cellular tissue, which surrounds the spermatic cord, or the water collects in one or more cells of the spermatic cord, or is found in hydatids (b). 1975. In the first case, the swelling which is along the spermatic cord, at first produces no inconvenience, the scrotum is not altered, except that if it be not wrinkled, it drops lower on one side than the other. The testicle is felt in its natural state. The swelling is broader below than above, seems to diminish by gentle and pushing pressure, though it resumes its appearance when the pressure is removed, both when the patient lies down and stands up. If fluctuation be observed, it is only distinct at the bottom, because the water sinks down especially, tears some of the cells and so forms a larger cavity ; therefore, no considerable quantity of water can be drawn off when a puncture is made anywhere but at the bottom of the swelling. If the base of the tumour be pressed, the water quickly f rises up towards the top, and distends it. And if the swelling be within - he abdominal ring, it distends it also. When it acquires a certain size, the patient often feels pain and dragging in the loins. The disease may Pe accompanied with a varicose state of the spermatic cord, and with omenta rupture. Its confusion with the latter of these is very easy, and r°!!°™» !naJ be remembered as distinguishing characters between -hem, that the hydrocele of the spermatic cord has less consistence, and las not so irregular surface as omental rupture ; it is also usually broader I' ® bfse’ whlls;t the contrary is the case with omental rupture (c) mall " S° l0n,g aSuthe1.fTeIling in infiltration of the spermatic cord is St\hpUSPeird°r ^ be W°rn 1 When the disease becomes inconve- nd ini nT ,n7,mU be,0pTd with a cut, without wounding the cord, 1Q77 7 ° W°Und’ Which is t0 be cured by granulation. Hydrocele in one or more cysts {Hydrocele cystica') is mostlv . m the middle of the spermatic W the swelling “producit * D dlften<^e^’ so th^t the fluctuation is not always distinguishable lienear tbP Pai|nles.s’ and. transparent. It can never be diminished. If 'l eteSnl f doming ring, it can be often somewhat pushed into it owart Thp w-Td r ?isthlCt.ly felL If the swelling enlarge deeply ' ounrr r th t6StlC 6’ the latter is felt on its hind part. Children and ible thTt T mT SUbjeCt'° this hydrocele than adults; it is ve^ rhinal canaf f-iT?*. cas.ef. thls results from a partial opening of the 1, le eTl nl l } 11 13 obIlterated above and below, and loses itself in 0 >e cellular tissue, (par 1966) (d). es ltselt 111 mlntST^^qm1""8 7 „°f‘“ disPerscd % ‘he remedies (Par- 1)67); "> adults tt is stubborn. If an operation t nd)laSHjL°E";t U°ber, Erkenntnlss uml He- XwcCi I™ comPlicirtcn -Hydro- sur uno Tumeuraqueuse ! 5? } a“ovc Cited, p. 86. . ILarbey, Observation iin Mem. de Chirurg. Militaire, vol. iii. fc) Scarpa. (d) Scarpa, above cited.—Frohiep's Cliirurg. lvupfertaf., pi. cii. ciii. °