806 REMOVAL OF SCROTAL TUMOUR BY KEY; mistaken for disease of the testicle itself; but with careful examination it is scarcely possible to mistake the one for the other. In some instances, however, the scrotum seems to participate rather than give origin a to similar growths of cellular tissue, with adhesive deposit in its cells, which has been already mentioned, (p. 711,) and which has, perhaps, been not very correctly spoken of as elephantiasis of the scrotum, these sometimes acquire very enormous size, and have occasionally been removed. Some such have been already noticed, but as their removal is attended with considerable danger, it would seem, from the sudden loss of venous blood, it will not be improper to advert to the subject again. In Liston’s case (a), already cited, of the tumour which weighed nearly fifty pounds, a and was removed from a man of twenty-two years of age, the disease had commenced > when he was only ten years of age, and had gone on increasing gradually from that time It measured forty-two inches in circumference, and forty from the verge of the anus' to the pubes, betwixt which parts it was attached. The greater bulk of the tumour lay behind, and extended lower than the patient’s knees. * * * The incisions were made from behind. I had intended to preserve as much of the genitals as I might find it possible to do, on examining their attachments and connexions with the diseased.! mass. But immediately on the bistoury being carried round the base of the tumour, the hemorrhage was so profuse that any attempt of the kind had to be abandoned, for the more essential and immediate object of saving the patient s life. " - The tumour was therefore detached as rapidly as possible,—in not very many seconds,-and the mouths of the large and numerous vessels running into it covered as they .were divi e , by our fingers. The flow of blood was compared by those present to the discharge of water from a shower-bath, so instantaneous and abundant was it. Before half the ves- - sels could be tied, the patient had sunk off the table without pulse, and with relaxed muscles, voluntary and involuntary.” From this condition he was recovered, and then, in his Practical Surgery Liston states, the remaining vessels were from twelve to sixteen, but whether they were arteries or veins is not mentioned. In three weeks he was able to walk about, and soon after the complete cicatrization of the wound ook place. The tumour is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England The following is Key’s case (6), which from its enormous size excited great inter* • Hoo Loo, aged thirty-two years, ten years previous to his admission (March 1,, ) into Guy’s Hospital, “first perceived the extremity of the prepuce to swell.and become hard, and it continued to increase for about four years. At the end of thisi p scrotum began gradually to enlarge up to the present time, when jj^d^qmred th enormous magnitude of four feet in circumference, its increase having been for the ■ two years remarkably rapid. * * * The appearances of the tumour at the operation (April 9) were as follows-.-Its body was of a flattened spheroidal form f u feet in circumference, and attached by an equilateral triangular neck ofhalf that which, opposite the pubes, measured exactly eight inches across, and exte ded inches and a half beyond each external abdominal ring. Hie other sidisi cor , P^fore to the lateral boundaries of the perineeum, and met at an acute ang w- a[)0Ut the anus. Its length was such, that when the man was erect, its lowest l*>iiints opposite to the tubercles of the tibia:. On its neck and latera p ’ thickened, were healthy in appearance, whilst on its anterior part they were c - ii'u]cerations, indurated, and had a tuberculated honey-comb appearance, with“““ ,)J)dv 0fthe from which a slight serous transudation took place. New the cen concealed the tumour, an irregular projection, supposed to be elongation o P I . „ ^emed orifice from which the urine escaped. The integument covering t P J wjth more diseased than that of any other part of the tumour, being c siJ , vate)j ridge numerous small elevations of the cutis, and from tins projection, was the extended backwards through the medium line of the tumour, and evuk tB ^ ^ enlarged raphe of the scrotum. The plan of the operation was th • . an(j a flaDS • one from the upper part of the neck of the tumour, to envelope 7 » In Silicone on c.S Jo to form a cov.rms.for .he W making the first lateral “ incision, several large veins were divided, which l during were immediately secured by ligatures This flap was it,'e" AJ’Sdcul.rly which several large vessels were tied. At the lower pait of the * P> ;te side, taTrtto™ secured. A Hap of .1* kind jjJ’’K of *• during which, but comparatively few vessels were divided. tpe right one, a operation consisted in laying bare the cords ; and in cutting down upon the rg^ ^ (,i) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, (b) Removal of an d PeriJtmi,in vol xix. p 5611. 1823. This account is the most circumstantial, and is that here quoted. (b) Removal of an rrr,„rum i " ing the region of the 1 «brf 93. 1831- London Medical Gazette, vol. vin. P-