FLAP-AMPUTATIONS. 891 its edge is directed obliquely upwards and inwards, and whilst carrying it round the whole limb in this direction, all the muscles are cut through to the bone, so that a hollow wound is formed, at the top of which the bone is sawn off. In practice, however, it is found impossible to carry the knife in a circle round the limb as directed, as it cannot travel except in a spiral line (a). This method, therefore, found but few adherents (b), and was set aside by other manoeuvres, by which a conical wound surface could be formed in the muscular substance. 2687. According to Gooch and Bell (e), the skin and muscl eshould be divided with one circular cut down to the bone, then the knife thrust in about an inch higher between the muscle and the bone and carried round, and lastly, the bone sawn through still higher than the cut through the muscles. Desault (d) cut through the muscles layer by layer, always allowing one to retract before he cut through another, and so proceeded till he reached the bone. Richter (e) practised a similar method with his fourfold circular cut, in which, with the first circular cut he divided the skin, which he allowed to retract, and at its retracted edge, with three several circular cuts he reached the bone; in doing this, the divided layer of muscles retracted, and those still remaining were cut through higher up. Boyer (/) divides the skin with the first circular cut, and by a second half through the superficial muscles, and on their retraction cuts through the deep layer, and finishes by dividing with a bistoury the remaining fibres attached to the bone, together with the ■periosteum. 2688. Graefe (g) again takes up Alanson’s notion of a funnel-shaped cut with one stroke of the knife, and manages it with a sort of leaf- shaped knife, (Blattmesser,) the blade of which is bellied in front, and becomes narrower and narrower towards the handle. When the skin has been divided with one circular cut and drawn back, the bellied part of the knife is placed on its edge with the cutting part obliquely upwards, carried with a single stroke in this direction around the whole limb, and the muscles are thus cut through to the bone. 2689. Dupuytren (/*), for the purpose of diminishing the pain in the iiidivision of the skin and muscles, employed Celsus’s method (par. 2683.) »: An assistant drew the skin well back, and he then divided the skin and A'muscles at one stroke to the bone ; the muscles hereupon retract, and those ’till remaining attached are cut through higher, so that in this way a 1 conical wound is produced. Wilhelm operates in like manner (i). lp 269°- In the history of the circular cut the proposals of Valentin and r portal to prevent the projection of the bone must also be mentioned ; Recording to the former, the muscles should each time be cut through in heir greatest degree of extension, according to the latter, just the con- Krarv. J rrary. I 2691. Flap-Amputations were first invented by Lowdham (/^) in the I ^60 andesbero, Rriefe, vol. ii. part i. p 21. Operations qui leur conviennent, vol. v--3^u.an,oviKK’i I 1)0 novfl Araputatione Paris, 1822-26. Third Edition. , . Jen®, 1784. f W Above cited, p. 240. W Above cited, p. 276. 3 iol 1. Mr?$niSCU "ni' c','rurgisclie Bcmcrkungen, ■ I (■/*) Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales et les p. 156. ird Edition. (o) Above cited, pi. vii. lig. 6, 7. (/i) SAiiATiKR, Medecine Operatoire, vol. iv. p. 471. 1824. New Edition.—Dueuytiien, above cited, vol. iii. p. 233. (0 Klinlsclie Chirurgie, vol. i. Miinchen, 1830. (/<) Yonok’s Currus triumplialis e terebintliina. London, 16/9.