460 DEOPSY OF THE MUCOUS SACS; TREATMENT. dispersion is always the object, and if this cannot be effected, the dischar^ •{■ of the collected fluid and the growing together of the cavity of the mucoi sac. 1873. If the swelling be inflamed and painful, cold applications lead wash, leeches, and rubbing in mercurial ointment must be employee I afterwards when the inflammation has ceased, or the fluid still remain •, blisters kept up for some time, or rubbing in volatile ointments. If tl inflammation of the mucous sac be very severe, arising from mechanics : influence on a previously painless swelling of the sac, and if the swelling be very great, then usually all dispersive remedies are useless, and it mua be cut into to prevent the spreading of the suppuration. Serous flui and floccy pus escape, and the treatment is to be the same as after openin abscesses. If the swelling be, as usual, painless, volatile rubbings, Ion continued blisterings, warm douche baths, dispersing plasters, and the lit are employed, together with which those remedies are made use of whic counteract the general ill condition of the constitution ; among which have found vinurn seminum colchici of the greatest service, especially i gouty and rheumatic complaints («). 1874. If by this treatment the dispersion be not effected, and the stil increasing tumour cause inconvenience, it must be emptied by a punctur or a cut, and by the introduction of tents, by irritating the inner surfaci of the swelling with the blunt end of a probe, by injections especially o solution of iodine, by the insertion of a seton, or by a subcutaneous cu to produce such a degree of inflammation as will put a stop to all secre- tion (b). It must not, however, be forgotten that inflammation and sup- puration of a large mucous sac may produce dangerous symptoms. Il the walls of the sac be very much thickened, this mode of treatment can. be of no service, and it may be necessary, if the situation of the swelling permit, to remove the sac either entirely or so that its hinder walls alone remain, and be thrown off'by suppuration. The treatment of encysted dropsical swellings on the knee-cap agrees precisely with what has been just laid down, except that Heister’s prescription (c), consisting of litharge gvj., Armenian bole 3j-> mastic and myrrh of each 3iv., and vinegar a pint, boiled together for a quarter of an hour, and applied to the swelling on a folded cloth, four or six times a day, and keeping the patient quiet, with a moderately tightly applied bandage, will in most cases produce either the cure at once, or after the swelling has been punctured. In the encysted swellings, {par. 1870,) described by Cruyelhi f.r (d), it is not, accord- ing to Dupuytren, sufficient merely to open them with one puncture, but two should be made, and a seton introduced. It may, however, be sufficient in most cases, to open the swelling on both sides, and to use irritating injections, as the irritation of the seton may produce very violent inflammation and fatal symptoms. According to Lenoir (e), three mucous sacs are found on the sole of the foot, one under the heel-bone, an inch in length, the second on the under surface of the joint of the great toe, between the skin and sesamoid bones, and the third on the little toe at the same part, with a lengthening on the outer edge of the foot. The dropsy of these mucous sacs or their inflammation, with the serous exudation, may lie easily taken for abscesses. If opened, they readily become fistulous, produce ill-conditioned pus. ana are covered with a thickened epidermis. In inflammation, a corresponding antiphlogistic treatment, poultices, cuts, cauterization, or excision must be employed. Cliirurgische (а) Giehi, J. M.. Medicinisch Beobachtungen. London, 1807. (б) Upon cutting into these swellings beneath the skin and into ganglia especially, see Bartho- lemy, Chaumat, Markchal; in Gazette Medi- cale de Paris, vol. vii. p.773.1839.—Mai.oaione ; in Bullet, de Therapeut. 1840, p. 29.—Thieruy ; in Gai. Med. de Paris, vol. ix. p. 537, 1841.— IIennemann, Ucber cine neue Reihe subcuta Operationen. Rostock und Schwerin, 1843. (r) Institutioncs Chirurglcse, vol. i. P- “**■ Schreoer, above cited. (d) Above cited, p. 323. (e) Recherches sur les Bourses muqueuses *0^- cutanees de la Plante du Pied, ct sur leur l’resse Medicate; vol. i p. 48. in mation ; in ft* ^ « -