890 AMPUTATION BY THE CIRCULAR CUT. (/) Above cited, P- **• , , I pression by the thumbs is better than the tourniquet, as it checks the great flow of blocwil « to the limb, and does not prevent the return, by the veins, of that blood which has mad its way by the side channels, which cannot be closed more by the tourniquet than thev are by the thumbs. Some Surgeons advise tying the principal artery first before am., putating, if the limb be removed near the trunk, and it cannot be doubted this is thh safest method; I have done this on two or three occasions; but at other times have taken up the artery directly it was cut through and afterwards finished the operation and upon the whole I think this is the better practice of the two, when there seems to lx a necessity for either.—J. F. S.] 2682. The formation of such wound that the bone can be property covered with soft parts, it has, in general, been attempted to effect in twc ways, a. by cutting circularly into the soft parts doivn to the bone, oi Amputation by the circular cut (Amputation durch der Zirkelschnitt Germ. ; Amputation circulaire, Fr.) ; and p. by separating the soft parti from the bone in shape of a flap, or Amputation with a flap (Lappen-* amputation, Germ.; Amputation a lambeaux, Fr.) 2683. History presents many modes of meeting the just-mentioned re- quirements by the circular cut. Celsus (a) had already expressly directed that the skin and muscles should at one stroke be cut into down to the bone, that they should be well drawn up, and be again divided from the bone higher up, so that the bone might be covered and union of the parts, drawn over it, might be effected. At a later period, however, this direction was so considerably departed from, that the skin and muscles being merely!]™ drawn up, were divided down to the bone with one circular cut, and thM bone sawn off. 2684. The impossibility, by this method, of drawing the divided parts' over the bone and covering it, necessarily rendered this a violent proceed- ing, the suppuration was always considerable, the bone stuck out, or wasr only partially covered, and a bad scar was formed. For these reasons, - various modes were tried to save as much skin and muscular substance ast would be sufficient for the due and perfect covering of the stump. 2685. Here belong the various methods of dividing the skin and muscles ■ in different steps and with several cuts. Petit (6) divided the skin with a circular cut down to the muscles, separated it a little more, drew it back, cut through the muscles at the edge of the skin so drawn back, and« after sawing through the bone, covered the surface of the wound with tn • skin which had been saved. With this agreed the later P™ct,®e ° Mynors (c), who considered a pad of flesh unnecessary ; he divided tne skin with a circular cut, dissected it off to a proper distance, and cu through the mass of muscle vertically down to the bone. ' ery receI\**, Brunningiiausen (rf) has followed a similar practice, except that io not divide the skin by one circular, but by two semicircular cuts, an . sects them back so as to form two semilunar flaps; the muscles are cut through vertically to the bone. . the 2686. For the purpose of making a wound with a conical surface upper part of which is the bone, Louis (c) has directed cutting throug the skin and superficial muscles with the first cut, to draw them bac'> uie sftiu auu —— — , . at their edge to cut through the deep muscles down to the bone. Alanboh (/) proposed a particular mode of forming a coni«> iYLANSOJN (/I pivpwvaa ~ r , , . 1 „ tjpna- surface, to make which when the skin is divided by a ^rcukr cut ^ rated from the muscles and turned back, the knife must be so placet (a) De Medicinfi, lib. vii. cap. xxxiii. "' Trait.1 lies Maladies Chirurgicalcs, vol. ill. p. lot). Above cited, p. 19. (c (d) Above cited. (c) Above cited, p. a«.