864 OPENING ARTERIES.—APPLICATION OF LEECHES. the edges of the wound pressed together, sticking plaster and a compress put over it, and fastened with a bandage. B—OF OPENING ARTERIES. (.Arteriotomia, Lat.; Scldagader-Oeffnuug, Germ.; Ouverture de l Artere, Fr.) 2625. Opening an artery is only performed on the temporal; it is recommended in severe inflammation of important organs, as the brain, the eye, and the like, so as quickly to evacuate a large quantity of blood. This operation is best performed in the following way: the pulse of the temporal artery, or one of its branches, is sought for in the temporal reo-ion : the place is to be marked with a black streak, the skin raised up a fold and cut through. The artery is then easily found and opened in a rather oblique direction with a lancet. The proper quantity of bloo having escaped, the artery is to be cut through, taken up with the forceps and tied, and the skin closed with sticking plaster. This method is more certain than opening the temporal artery at a stroke with the lancet, and stanching the bleeding by pressure. _ f Opening the temporal artery is oftentimes far less easy than mightbeexpecte.an inattention to its subsequent division frequently causes very senous and sometimes fatal, results The facility with which it is found depends pretty much upon the p , which it is opened ^ If this he done just before and above the tragus, it is managed easily on account of the size of the vessel; but if higher, after its d^‘S'on into tempi - frontal, and temporo-occipital, it is more difficult; the part of the vessel commonly chosen, as it runs along t le g rtifficnlt is it ishes quickly in its course, so that the higher it is operated on, the more^fficrdt^d to be found.^ If it be expected that a single bloodletting from one or both t P. arteries will alone be required, then the artery may be °Pj^. ^at more __ a little nhnve the root of the zygomatic process. Rut it it is iikuj t imrnmmm that a tenaculum should be passed across and bet ndl £ so more compression, or by and pSts have been destroyed by after-bleedingyar.ng^ on lt^CpTcation ol —; sa t=&•£ ssi hsi- iSisi —- - vessel occurs after artenotomy.—J. F. S.J C.-OF THE APPLICATION OF LEECHES. 2696 In applying leeches, they may be held with a piece of linen roun^ their hind part^ so that the head, which is always their thmnest par t m le directed Ihe spot upon which they are to be«x«L J1 always he carefully cleaned. Some persons apply ' ,jils, it fa pasteboard rolled up, or ... a glass cylinder 'VIki, t epar most convenient to put the requisite number of leeches glass, and turn it down. . , - tlie horse leech | ^oSl.'ie-cotoureat strip* — \