DIVISION OF RUPTURES. 2 1111. According to the various parts at which ruptures are formed, they are distinguished as, 1, Inguinal, which pass through the inguinal canal; 2, Femoral, beneath Pour art’s ligament; 3, Umbilical, through the umbilical hole ; 4, Thyroid, through the thyroid hole; 5, Ischiatic, through the ischiatic notch ; 6, Ventral, through the wall of the belly, the holes already mentioned excepted; 7, Perinceal; 8, Vaginal-, 9, Rectal, when the rupture protrudes at the perinceum, in the vagina, or in the rectum (l). Inguinal, femoral and umbilical are the most common ruptures, the others are more rare. [(1) To this list must certainly be added Phrenic rupture (Hernia diaphragmatica.') And English Surgeons speak also of mesenteric, meso-colic, and meso-rectal raptures, although strictly speaking they do not resemble true ruptures in leaving their proper cavity, but they burst through parts which have no natural opening for their passage and thus become displaced.—J. F. S.] 1112. Those intestines of the belly which on account of their position and connexion are least fixed, protrude most commonly, as the omentum and the small intestines, more rarely the large intestines, the stomach, the bladder, the internal female generative organs, and the like. Parts may be in the rupture which in their natural place are very far from it. These are either drawn down by the protruding intestines, with which they are connected, or by the descent of the peritoneum, to which they are attached. According to the intestine which ruptures contain are they distinguished as intestinal, (Hernia Intestinalis, Lat.; Darmbruch, Germ.; Enterocele, Fr.,) omental, (Hernia Omentalis, Lat.; Netzbruch, Germ.; Epiploc'ele, Fr.,) ventricular, (Hernia Ventriculi, Lat. ; Magenbruch, Germ.; Gas- troc'ele, Fr.,) vesical, (Hernia Vesicce, Lat.; Harnblasenbruch, Germ.; Cystocele, Fr.,) and so on. Several intestines may be contained at the same time in one sac, as for instance intestine and omentum, (Darmnetz- brucli, Germ. ; Entero-epiplocele, Fr.,) and the like. 1113. When the intestines of the belly are protruded into a rupture, they are usually enclosed in a sac, (saccus herniosus, Lat.; Bruchsack, Germ.; saclierniaire, Fr.,) which is formed of the lengthened peritoneum. In rare cases only is this sac deficient; for instance, when the rupture is caused by great violence, or after previous wound of the Avail of the belly, or after the application of escharotics for the radical cure of the rupture. The sac may also be torn, or destroyed by absorption. If intes- tines protrude, which are not enclosed in the peritoneum, fdr example, the bladder (1) and ccecum (2), there is not any sac; but if they be much protruded, they draw down the peritoneum connected with them, and thereby form a sac into which other intestines may pass. [(1) In regard to vesical rupture, it is certainly just possible that the bladder may rise to the internal abdominal ring, and thrusting up the peritoneum from that opening, may protrude some part of its body uncovered by peritoneum through it, and this may continue to descend through the inguinal canal and form a rupture without a peritoneal or true hernial sac. But such state of things is highly improbable, aud iu the two cases of vesical rupture in the museum at St. Thomas’s is certainly not so, for in this preparation it is the fundus of the bladder, that part of the organ most likely to be protruded, with its peritoneal covering which has passed through the abdominal ring into a distinct peritoneal sac, which from its appearance probably belonged originally to a rupture of the intestinal or omental kind. (2) I do not think that the ccecum Avould often protrude as a rupture without having a peritoneal sac, more than the bladder, and for nearly the same reasons. There is, however, in the Museum at St. Bartholomew’s a ccecum carried into the scrotum with a partial sac, and I have also had one case in which I suspect the colon did. But