366 TREATMENT OF (a) Above cited, p. 139. these circumstances he was seized with pain in the act of making water, which laste for some minutes afterwards, being referred to the situation of the stricture m the posU rior Dart of the urethra. The pain beeame more severe, and the patient described ,t to b intolerable, saying that he could compare it to nothing but the sensations which h suDDOsed would be produced if melted lead had been poured into the canal. Ever half hour he had a desire to make water, and his groans might he heard not on! through the whole house, but even in the street. In the course of a few (lays the* symptoms began gradually to abate, and now it was discovered that the urine flowed i a much larger stream. When the attack had completely subsided, the condition of tb patient was much improved, and he made water more easily than he had done for man years.” (p. 15.)] 1688 In cauterizing a stricture from before backwards, a commo bougie is to be first carried down to the stricture, for the purpose of oper ino. the canal of the urethra, and the distance from the orifice of the cana must be marked close to it on the bougie. This having been witl.drawr a corresponding mark is to be made on a bougie armed with lunar caustic which after having been properly oiled, must be carried down the uretb. to the stricture, against which it must be moderately pressed, and accordin to the patient’s feelings, for a different length of time, though on th first day not for a minute. In this way the armed bougie is employe every other day, or in obstinate cases, daily. When the slough has bee. thrown off, an elastic bougie is to be introduced, and thus gradually tb natural calibre of the urethra is restored. Bournes armed with lunar caustic are made in the following wayIn forming th common bougie a piece of wire is rolled into it, extending about half an inch into i substance When the bougie is nearly completed, the wire must be pulled out, and * 2 of lunar caustic inserted in its place. The bougie is to be then again rol ed that the sides of the caustic may be firmly surrounded with the linen, which gives a Win eniu°NTEeRb(a)S^d> for applying the caustic, a flexible silver catheter, provided with stilette which had at its extremity a portcrayon for holding the caustic. fin the directions which Hunter gives for the introduction of the caustic, he tions it is necessary for the canula to be furnished with a piece of sllTer stfleto having a button at one end, forming a kind of ping, J^ich should projec‘ J end'of th^cmiula ami give itarounded end, to Facilitate its passage along the ,«*•« the stricture haviug reached which the plug is withdrawn, and the portcrayon,jh.c may be attached to the other end of the stilette introduced mito1 stead Tins apparan w J however, a very bungling contrivance, and Hunter doubtless found it «0»« mentions in a note, “ that before his death Mr. Hunter left off entirely the of th silver canula, and used the lunar caustic inserted into the end cfaeommmbo r 140 ) the mode in which it is now, whenever employed. The great advocate f ment with lunar caustic was Home; but it was soon fiercely and efficient^ attacked 5 Whatei.y, who shewed the mischievous and dangerous results en*“’"g ' lives, m use Lawrence’s words, “ if we are to credit the description which HoMEgw^ thine would be more safe or effectual than this mode of treatment . , , trca however, to peruse the cases he gives iu illustration of the Jario^ P°'“^ of f (roatin ment we find that serious mischief is sometimes produced by this mode t me Sure ; and as he (Home) is highly favourable to the plan, we may at a 1 events 1 pose that he has not exaggerated the ill-effects of the treatment (p. 802.)] 1689. This mode of cauterization has considerable objection, as necially in strictures behind the curve of the urethra, the easily destroyed, false passages made, and considerable Weed‘ng 1 ,; Not unfrequently the aperture of the stricture u slouffh, and complete obstruction to the voidance of the unne prou and further, by the hard, formless scar which is produced, the returns more severely than at first. v _ of these dis 1690. It is attempted to overcome the greater number