FORMATION OF TUBERCLE IN BONE. 68 L (c) I have translated this abstract from Pion6. .1. F. S. 0f the patient are failing under hectic symptoms, amputation is the only . hope. Laying bare, boring holes in the bony tumour, as also the applica- te tion of acrid remedies, or even of the actual cautery, for the destruction g of the diseased bone, are improper. The formation of tubercles in bone, which has been referred to in various places, as in spondylarthrocace and Spina ventosa, and indeed pointed out by the older writers, Gales, Severinus, Gerber, Hancke,) has been more carfully described by Delpech ind Neibert, but especially by the attention which the Anatomical Society of Paris mve given to the subject (a), and by Nelaton’s clever treatise (6), it has been care- ully set forth. Of this treatise Pigne has given an abstract in his French Translation >f this work, which I the more readily here repeat, as it confirms many of my own •arlier statements. The causes of tubercular formations in bone are those of tubercle in general. Most i 'ommonly it appears in ehildhood, although it is often enough noticed in adults. All . he bones may be attacked with it, though the several bones may be arranged in the fol- owing way, according to the frequency of its occurrence in them; the vertebra;, the shin- high- and upper-arm-bones, (in children,) the fingers, metacarpal and metatarsal bones, ( he breast-bone, ribs, iliac bones, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the hort carpal and tarsal bones. The disease appears under two forms ; the tubercular nass is collected in one or several cavities, in the middle of the bony substance (tuber- ,ula cystica, Lat.; tubercules enkystts, Fr.); it may be infiltrated into the cells of the “>ne (Infiltratio tuberculosa, Lat.; infiltration tuberculeuse, Fr.) A. The encysted tubercles appear during their progress in five stages (c) :— 1. Gray Granulations (Granulations grises.)—At the top of the affected part of the bone im which the periosteum has been removed, some vascular points are observed, form- ig violaceous marblings, and sometimes slight elevations which deprive the bone of its igularity. _ If layer after layer of the compact part of the bone be first removed, and ierwards its cellular tissue, a substance is reached of many lines in extent, formed by :ie union of little pearly granulations, half a line in diameter, of a white opaline colour, lany of these granulations, specially such as are at the periphery, are encircled by a *;ttle bony shell of very great tenuity and transparence. It is not uncommon to find Vane of these granulations, which present in their centre a yellow opaque spot, indica- * *v? of commencing transformation; in the interstices separating them some exceedingly elicate vessels creep, which inosculate with those of the surrounding bony tissue, upon hich a very distinct injection is perceived. The surface of the bone, at the nearest )int of this tuberculous deposit, is often doubled by a bony layer of recent formation 'hese granulations exhibit complete identity with those generally regarded as rudiments pulmonary tubercles; they are pretty frequently met with on bones, which on other arts ot their extent exhibit well-developed tubercles; and the lungs of persons in whom hey are met with generally contain tubercles. The bony partitions which separate iCh ol these granulations are not slow to be absorbed and disappear entirely, and then tears the second period. J r; P.rude’ encysted. Tubercles {Tubercules crus, enkysltTs.) -These granulations beirm med mto one single mass, lose their primitive colour and appearance ; the vessels and notions which separated them have disappeared : there is soon merely an opaque-white «7ryel^^that0f pUUy’ With0ut ai)y “ty, |d Sg the £hf! m finger; >s. homogeneous, contains no bone, and presents sometimes kht marblmgs more white, or slightly gray. This matter is contained in a cyst hich lines all the anfractuosities which the tubercular cavity presents This cvst’ i *tuterSl iKle •h/CkneBS’ ", at firSt gdatiu0us> transparent^eSds in acquS * L™i - b resistance, and contains vessels more and more numerous as the I nes ineular^nd’f Soft-neSS' The ^ony cavity is more or less regularly rounded, some- 4t i surface though ma"y fuT™1 cavitles- which °Pen into the central cavity. ■ generally smoothed, presents sometimes a heap of little bony needles 9 ‘ other ti g olicacy, almost all parallel, and directed towards the centre of the cavity ,1 fiSrtiSentirdy bony’tbes® ~11. are formed of bon?! fibrous ant 1 esurfeceof tlmho’ne Ifh5 Vtonseqnence of its development, the tubercle has reached E pmroSkd and ad t '* 'Tt' u V ' the P':ria^um, the latter becomes * unds C ex^vatii h!! °ng'y ,t0- ** Cy8t\ /or the rest, the bony tissue which J excavation has preserved its natural density and texture ; all the parts '*•“ 08C.6)Pate.t78 S"r rAffeC,i°n Tuberculpuse des