MODE OF REDUCTION. 71 discharged, which led me to suppose I had opened the sac, but what I supposed to ba intestine remained very immovable, and led me to doubt. Upon examining what was thought to be mesentery I found the vessels running in all directions, and the part itself semitransparent; I therefore carefully cut through it, and immediately about a table- spoonful of fluid escaped, and a knuckle of intestine was exposed.—j. f. s. A very remarkable case of femoral rupture is mentioned by Berard (a), which contained the Fallopian tube, and a large quantity of fluid. It had commenced two years previously in a small tumour, which was reducible, but she neglected wearing any bandage. In December, 1837, the growth had become more rapid, and the swell- ing, which was in the right groin, larger than a hen’s egg, stretched somewhat towards the abdomen and right labium, with a broad base, and smooth surface, except on the upper inner side, where a nipple-like process, as big as the top of the finger protruded, and the skin covering it was thin and bluish. The tumour fluctuated, and was trans- parent, and she says returns into the belly when she lies down. It was presumed to be a serous cyst developed in the part, or an old hernial sac closed by adhesion at the neck, and become dropsical. She had also a hard round body, as big as a turkey’s egg, protruding above the pubes, which, on examination, by the vagina was found to originate froin the womb. The first-mentioned swelling was punctured with a trocar, and six or eight ounces of citron-coloured frothy serum discharged, which coagulated with heat. A round body, as large as a small nut, and irreducible, was felt in the femoral nng, and ceased to be felt behind the crural arch. On the fifth day after the operation the sac suppurated, and she died on the seventh. On examination the interior of this cavity was found lined with albuminous exudation, and it communicated by a free opening with the peritoneal cavity behind Poupart’s ligament. It contained nothing but the Fallopian tube in a state of considerable hypertrophy, without adhesion to the interior of the sac, but closely united to the anterior part of the circumference of the sac. The tissue of the womb was healthy, except being distended by an enormous 1218. The epigastric artery is on the outer side in internal femoral rupture and ascends on the outer side of the hernial sac, where it crosses the spermatic cord, which runs on the upper and inner side of the rupture. The varia- tions in the course of the epigastric and obturator arteries are here of the greatest importance.^ If the obturator artery arise from the external iliac or from the epigastric, or both from the crural artery, when it has passed below Poupart s ligament, the obturator artery runs along the inside of ehen^sac, d0W,n inA0 ?e Pelvis- In the same direction, frequently passes a not inconsiderable branch of communication from the epigastric o the obturator artery. The observations on the frequency of° these ifferent origins do not always precisely agree ; the origin of the obturator r^S;0(l)m0re COmm°" than c the hernS1“*?'“ibtagt 7emicMe itaftheneottf'f at from7othhe CPigaStri° "*“* ““ ““ I-™* depth20' rUIJt”' is y difficult of reduction owing to its frr i c tax.ls must> m a small femoral rupture, be applied directlv !»* large one, firs', from aboTe “nwardf nd then from before backwards, the thigh being also much bent at tlm Schlagadcr. Nachtrag zu seiner Sclirift: Ueber die Biclierste Art des liruchschnittes in der I.eiste Bamberg und Wflrzburg, 1819, 4to. ; with six Engravings.—Tiedemann, Erkliirung seiner Ab~ bildungen der Pulsadern, p. 288-298. wX^ri?n,?e’.APrn> 1839-- British and Medical Review, vol. x. p. 2f,7 ZdTn’ above cited.—II esszlbach, A. K„ Irud decken t'hr8 V?rl,St,f <lur "nt"en rucnutcken Schlagadcr und der Huftbeinlocli