EXARTICULATION OF TOES. '953 seous ligament are cut through, and the metatarsal bone, still a little attaciied, is to be completely separated and removed. If the operation be performed on the right foot, the place of the joint must be found with the forefinger of the right hand, and the left forefinger placed there to point it out, and whilst with the other fingers the foot1 is held, grasping its outer edge, the first cut is made on the inside. 2793. In exarticulation of the metatarsal hone of the little toe, the proceeding is the same as in the former case. That of the little and fourth toe is performed, according to Scoutetten, by the same method as for : removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe. 2794. The middle metatarsal hones may he removed from their con- nexion with the tarsal bones, according to Scoutetten, by the oval cut which is preferable to the method with two side cuts. In these exarticulations of the metatarsal bones, the affected tarsal bones may be also at the same time removed. Key removed at once the outer four metatarsal bones he second and third cuneiform and the cuboid bones. Dieffenbach (a) took away the outer two metatarsal and cuboid bone; and in another case, the inner two with the two cuneiform and the navicular bone. Ruykr (b) in an exarticulation of the first metatarsal, removed also the first and second cuneiform bones. V.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE TOES. {Exarticulatio Digitorum Pedis, Lat.; Exarticulation der Zehen, Germ.; Desarticu- lation des Orteils, Fr.) 219o. In exarticulation of the toes from their connexion with the me tatarsal bones an under, upper, or side flap, or the oval cut, may be made according to the state of the soft parts. ^ 2796 If an under flap have to be formed, after the situation of the joint is determined, a transverse cut should be made over its upper surface which divtdes the front and part of the side connexions of the joint. From both angles of this cut on either side of the toe a cut descends, dividing he side connexions of the joint. The toe is then pressed downwards to hslocate it, the connexions behind are divided, the knife carried alone- the under s,,'fee of the bone, and the flap made through^ side lAfter the bleeding has been stanched, the flap is brought over the surfact f the wound, and kept in place with straps of plaster. In forming the flap upon the dorsal surface, a longitudinal cut is nnrlo each side, with the knife held horizontally, beginning from the W ? ln.d contlnued to the junction of the first with the second phalanx Tl ^ nde cuts are connected by a transverse one across the dorsal^ surfece and he flap separated up to the joint, into which whilst the • ’ fcr"’ ‘he k"ife " c"hd> “d and soft ™ (") Hamburger Zeitsclirift, vol. i. part i n ,, , . pan i. (/,) Uevue Medicale, 1832 ; vol. iv. p. 1ST.