605 SECONDARY BLEEDING. >od on the left side, which being disposed to stick, I thought best to leave alone. Be- eeu this time and three in the afternoon his bowels were sparingly moved five times, 1 he had passed plenty of water, but neither blood nor clots. On consultation with , colleague, Green, it was determined that the finger should be introduced into the idder, and any clot there detached and broken to pieces, and cleared out by injecting rm water, that the bowels should be quieted with opium, and his powers supported th egg and wine. This was accordingly done; I introduced my finger, but could not lertain anything unusual; no water, but a small portion of clot, not larger than half ixpence, followed its withdrawal. I then passed a catheter by the urethra, and with j finger in the wound, introduced it into the bladder, and injected by it some warm iter twice, the first passed by the wound slightly tinged, but the second was colourless; d tiie catheter when removed had no appearance of having been in any clot. He pt during the rest of the day, and neither had any more straining nor passed blood, jugh the napkin was a little stained. About eleven he threw up some beef tea imme- itely after taking it, as well also porter and brandy and water, which were given at ;ervals, and then dropped asleep. At four o’clock on the morning of the tenth day i bowels were freely moved without any clot, and soon after he took and kept down egg and some tea. In the course of the forenoon he passed plenty of water, accom- nied with a very offensive discharge, as if from a slough, but without any blood, and med better though very languid. As he was fully under the influence of the opium lirected its omission, thinking it might be perhaps the cause of the sickness. At noon was seized with shivering and seemed to be passing his water; the wound was iked to, a small clot found in it, which being removed, the urine escaped readily, d the shivering ceased. During the day he took some beef tea, porter, and egg, uch he enjoyed, and was constantly dozing. He had one motion with much strain- 5, but unaccompanied with bleeding or clots. On the fifteenth day he continued proving, except that the straining continued, for which an opium injection was given th advantage, and he has taken plenty of nourishment, to which first port wine was ded, but afterwards changed for sherry. The wound has become more florid and sup- rates freely, and there is a plentiful discharge of mucus from the bladder. Every- ng seemed doing well, and the quantity of mucus diminishing up to the twenty-first irning at five o’clock, when the napkin was found stained with bloody urine, and a tie bright red blood; he passed more bloody water and a little bright blood several aes. At nine o’clock a small clot passed, at ten another and soon after a motion, and ut two table-spoonfuls of clot, and he began to feel faint. Clots and water con- iued passing at intervals till eleven o’clock, and between that time and noon about six nces more. Soon after he passed another clot from the wound, and some bright ood by the urethra. He then became very pallid and cold and his pulse very small d quick. I passed a catheter and washed out the bladder; the first water was tinged th blood, but the second was clear; under these circumstances I thought it best to troduce the finger into the wound and compress the pudic artery, which being found icient was continued for twenty-one hours, a very small clot or two only passing aen the finger was withdrawn for relief. Brandy and beef tea and a few drops of dan uni were given during the day, as he had become very restless. On this evening ae twenty-second.) he was attacked with some bronchial irritation, which continued creasing, not having been relieved by the application of mustard poultice or blister, he was too weak for any more active means. He continued sinking, and died on e afternoon of the twenty fourth day, but had not had any recurrence of the bleeding he examination of this case was most unsatisfactory, as the parts which had been moved that they might be carefully examined, were cut to pieces in the neighbourhood the pudic artery, which was the most important of all. I was therefore unable to ertain whence the bleeding had originated; but I cannot help thinking it must have :en from the origin of the transverse perinceal artery, and that had I made pressure n i it at first, as I did at last, the boy might have been saved. This plan I should cer- * '(inly adopt under similar circumstances. At the time I did not recollect the occurrence 1 • after-bleeding in a case of this kind, and when the bleeding ceased for a time and the ft . again began to improve, I had hoped that the danger had passed away. The ; se is deeply interesting, and I believe not undeserving the full report I have given of s.] ^2105. Wounding the rectum may happen in various ways: First, at L iat step of the operation when the operator having made the outer cut, Wirnes the point of the knife into the groove of the staff for the purpose 'I opening the membranous part. If the handle of the knife be then too