TELEANGIECTASY. 280 VON W ai/ther, Ueber Verhiirtung, Scirrhus, harten und weichen Krebs Medullar- sarcom, Blutscliwamm, Teleangiektasie, und Aneurysma per Auastomosin, in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenbeilkunde, vol. v. p. 189. ,, J i 1507. By the unnatural expansion of the capillary vessels are pro- duced soft elastic swellings, which, consisting merely of numerous vessels tortuous and connected together with loose cellular tissue, can ^respect' to their internal structure, be compared with nothing better than the nlacenta The different designations, Fungus hamatodes, honor Jun- gosus sanguineus, Aneurysma per anastomosin, Aneurysma spongwstm,- Blutscliwamm, Teleangiektasie, Tumeur erectile, Splenoide haie been* aPf^ito the best of all these designations. The term bloody fungu,. (Funaus hamat.odes') 1 employ here, but not in the sense oj Hey and others, who thereby (cungus na.mai.uuea j y j », . , T - i„r tue term Funaus medullaris more designate another degeneration, for which I consider tne wrm *unyu w annroDriate • at least, I cannot, after numerous examinations, admit (as v\ althsM does) any other Fungus hamatodes besides teleangiectasy and medullary fungus.. 1508. These swellings, which originally have their seat in the skin ando underlying cellular tissue, occur either in children or adults, or are i congenital. It generally begins with a red or bluish spot, which at firsti L little or not at all elevated\bove the skin, and ncreases in a shorter or longer time to a variously shaped swelling, in which the Patie»t fe^ peculiar crawling and beating, which on closer examination maj be more or less distinctly perceived. The colour of the swelling is sometimes more red, sometimes more bluish; it enlarges and pulsates more d;stincdy at° every exertion, by which the circulation of the blood is quickened When it has attained a great extent, single fluctuating spo s anse, skin thins, bursts, and considerable bleedingensues recurs The apertures often close with a seemingly firm scar , and often red, fungenis granulations spring up from them, which consist merely of oM blood. The interior of such swelling exhibits a convolution of « c rable vessels enveloped in loose cellular tissue, many cavities filled• wJUi Si,-! single vessel, full of holes, out of wta* ‘ trickles. If these swellings exist in the cellular toue beneath fl I the latter retains its" natu ral co,edition fhr .1-*-,. — fluctuation is felt; the skin gradually allied in the^l mentioned; tTe disease rarely extends between the deep-lying Ojg-J Swellings of this kind may be very eas ily.mistaken The'fungous growths, after the bursting of teleangiectasy,, result» ther’s opinion) if no definite general dyscrasy ha present ?n medal * and fungous teleangiectasies, but never any extension to diseases, thev «!*• lary fungus. Also in this degree, if teleangiectases arise after 1 ral d - ’depjnd , cially affect the constitution by repeated loss of blood. Ep the drcumstancS tha j favourable results produced by suppuration and scarring, as also the bursten teleangiectasies are often closed by a tough scar. _ for 1509. These swellings originate in an unnatural the* i tainly also in a large development of the capillary vessels , In nC6( I must-be considered as the terminations of the arterial, and the imfl I ment of the venous system, we find m such ^^^’iiferv-vascula the arterial, sometimes rattier the venous side of o | system affected. This difference manifests itself bj I' the swelling, and the circumstances accompanying its de I : Sangicctiy, Which affects rather the artenal stde of the caput*.