555 SOLUTION BY GALVANISM—EXTRACTION BY URETHRA. or even inconvenience arising from it. I next endeavoured to ascertain to what extent a solution of this strength was capable of acting on a calculus of the mixed phosphates, i The change produced was sufficiently obvious, especially when the solution was made i to pass over the calculus in a stream for a considerable time. It gradually diminished i in size, and at last began to be broken down into minute fragments.” For this purpose he at first used a gold catheter with a double channel, through which a constant current was kept up ; but afterwards found an elastic gum bottle with a stop-cock, and elastic i! gum tube attached to it. He first washed out the bladder with distilled water to get rid t of the mucus lodged in it, aud then injected the solution of nitric acid very slowly, , using the same liquid over and over again several times. The liquid was afterwards t tested with a highly concentrated solution of pure ammonia, and it was found that if ik the ammonia was added in sufficient, but not too large quantity, the phosphates were £ i precipitated in abundance. Hence he concludes, ‘-first, that a calculus, composed exter- v nally of the phosphates, may be acted on by this injection, so as to become gradually > reduced in size, while it is still in the bladder of a living person ; second, that there is | reason to believe that small calculi, composed throughout of the mixed phosphates, such c as one met with in some eases of diseased prostate gland and bladder, are capable of t being entirely dissolved under this mode of treatment, and that it is probable that it } may therefore be applied with advantage to some of these cases, in which, from the 3 contracted state of the bladder, or from other circumstances, the -extraction of such & calculi by means of the urethra-forceps, cannot be accomplished.” (p. 292-99.)] III.—Of Dissolving Stone by means of the Galvanic Pile. 2031. Gruithuisen (b) rests his proposal of dissolving urinary stone i by the action of the galvanic pile, upon Desmortier’s experiments. • Prevost and Dumas (c) have made experiments both out of the body and i upon animals. The apparatus consists of an elastic catheter, containing two platina conductors, covered with silk throughout their whole length, ? except at their ends, which are kept apart by a spring, and attached to an ivory knob, which closes the opening of the catheter. This knob is com- > posed of two hemispheres, each of which is attached to a conductor, so : that the flat surfaces where the platina is exposed, comes in contact with the stone. An injection of diluted nitric acid renders the galvanic pile more active than water alone. With this treatment, no experiments have yet been made on men. 1 [Jn 1844 an American named Hull, in London, attempted to dissolve stone in the 'I bladder by galvanism, but I do not know with what success. The patient had stone ' for I sounded and felt it.—J. F. S.] . W*—Of the Extraction of the Stone through the Urethra. 2032. The shortness and extensibility of the urethra in females, and the not unfrequent spontaneous passage of stones of considerable’size, ' have led to the extraction of stones in women, by dilating the urethra. > - Circumstances are less favourable in men, and the instances of void- > • ance of large stones by them are much rarer. According to Prosper i ! Alpinus (a), the dilatation was specially suited to men, and was per- \' o™**1 among the Egyptians by blowing air into the urethra through tubes of increasing size, after which the stone was pressed into the neck oi the bladder by the finger introduced into the rectum, (in women the anger was.placed in the vagina,) and then the stone was brought out by sucking vigorously at the penis. Enlargement of the diameter of the urethra to five lines can be effected in men only with much trouble: in s cases such extension is unbearable. Small stones, therefore, can («) Above cited. - > i All W,2? PI'ySifl"°’ V0,‘ xxiii‘ P- 202‘ 1823.—Lekoy. Alteration or the Apparatus, C) De MedlcinS AJg'yp't., p.224. I.ngd. Batav., 1719.