THE EXTRACTION. 599 rlft Scarpa ; in OllivIeb, p. 1-40. i Chelius, Ueber den Steinschnitt; in Heidelb. klinisch. Ann., vol. vi. part. iv. 2095. The extraction of the Stone is in general accompanied with great Hilifficulty, and requires the more careful and skilful management, as upon « he proper performance of this part of the operation depends principally r)iAs successful or unfavourable result. The left forefinger, and in very q tout persons, a blunt gorget upon it, is passed into the opening of the neck b f the bladder, and upon it the forceps (a), previously oiled, are carried »• n a rather oblique direction from below upwards into the bladder. The stj orceps are then gently turned about in various directions to find the < tone, and when it is found, the handle-rings of the forceps are to be aken hold of with both hands, widely opened, and the forceps pushed ~m arther into the bladder, or turned half round with a sweep, so as to bring he stone between their blades and to grasp it. When the separation of IB she handles shows that the stone is seized, the thumb and middle finger of Hhe right hand are put into the rings of the forceps, or the instrument is : ‘rasped with the whole hand, but in either case the forefinger is kept be- t ' ween its handles, partly to prevent breaking the stone, and partly to pre- iH ent the walls of the bladder catching in drawing out the forceps, which f re to be turned round on their axis, so as to ascertain that the bladder Spas not been laid hold of. The surfaces of the blades of the forceps are ibhen directed towards the edges of the wound, the left hand placed on the ,)int, and with a continued gradually increasing pull, accompanied at the ? ime time with waggling movements obliquely from above downwards, *o'be forceps, together with the stone, are drawn out. If during the ex- io faction the edge of the wound be stretched very tightly over the stone, it ■ f lust be held back with the finger of the left hand. 'tf; 2096. The obstacles which occur in grasping and drawing out the stone b epend on its position and size, on the contraction of the wound of the t ladder, on the stone being encysted or adherent, and on its breaking to .nieces. ° T: 2097. If the stone lie low, it must be attempted by the forefinger of l ie left hand, passed up the rectum, to carry it towards the forceps, or a !■ air of curved forceps may be used. If the stone be very high, or in the h des of the bladder, it must be tried to change its position with the finger, ffi) thrust it down by pressure on the lower part of the belly, or curved ® irceps must be introduced ; and in using the latter, their handles must * Iways be inclined downwards. ; 2098. If the stone be grasped in an unfavourable diameter, or too near *. ie joint of the forceps, which is shown by the very great separation of < ieir handles, or if the stone lie with its long diameter transversely within * ie blades, which is discovered by the slight separation of the handles, I ™ tae Unities in attempting the extraction, the forceps must be , a little, and with the finger, or with a bouton (b), it must be l 2 ,fve, U a be‘ter, position ; or it must be dropped into the l ,0 , °Iti baSe, °fu r bladder’ and seized afresh* If the wound be fcj™’ thouS\ the diameter of the stone be favourable, it must be S3?’38 du*ectedj( par. 2094,) to such extent as to render the ex- 'h P°S9lb!e’ without much bruising and injury. If the stone be On Onh, S1Ze that Wlth even the Sreatest possible enlargement of the Stone-PorccpT seeschamm Twa k-ln‘,ls $ A" in8trument like the stilette of a catheter, | 1. ill. p. 200. ueschamps, above cited th a ball at its extremity.