HYDROCELE; TREATMENT RY INCISION; 502 exhalation, and producing contraction of the vaginal tunic, whilst : | cavity is preserved, or by exciting such a degree of inflammation as w Jj produce a growing together of the vaginal tunic with the testicle. 1946. The first hind of radical cure may be effected by the use 1 solutions of hydrochlorate of ammonia dissolved in vinegar and spirits -.1 wine, by fumigation with cinnabar, with sugar, with vinegar, by emeti fi and purgatives, and by repeated blisters and the like applied to tifl swelling. In adults these remedies are seldom of use, but in childm they almost always disperse the hydrocele. Perhaps in grown perso-. they would be more effectual, if the water had been first drawn o Kinder Wood (a) found that when the swelling had been open* with a broad lancet, and the water discharged, if a little piece of tl vaginal tunic were drawn out with a hook, and cut off with scissors, ai simply dressed, only a slight degree of inflammation ensued, whit restored the exhalents and absorbents to their natural condition and cause a cure without the vaginal tunic growing to the testicle. When tli: tunic is thickened, such treatment is inapplicable. 1947. The second kind of radical cure of hydrocele is effected, fir ; by incision ; second, by injection ; third, by seton ; fourth, by caustic fifth, by the tent; and sixth, by cutting away the vaginal tunic. 1948. In the operation by incision, the patient is placed upon a fir table ; an assistant grasps the back of the swelling, and tightens the ski- The operator cuts freely through the skin, or through a fold of it, in tl mesial line, and to the extent of two-thirds of the swelling (1); if tl scrotal artery bleed, it must be tied. The operator then placing the for finger of his left hand on the middle of the swelling, thrusts a bistoui with its back upon the volar surface, into the vaginal tunic, and earria the fino-er in with it, so that when the knife is withdrawn, the finger ma completely fill up the hole. The blunt-ended blade of a pair of scissors - now passed on the finger, and the opening in the tunic enlarged upwarc and downwards, care being taken that the testicle do not protrude, and it should, it must be gently returned. An assistant, with his finge* crooked, seizes the tunic at each angle of the wound, and lifts it up, so thfi its inner surface is laid open. A thin fold of linen dipped in fresh oil then laid in the cavity of the tunic between it and the testicle, so that n edge projects in a ring around the cut. The cavity thus formed by linen is to be filled with lint dipped in oil, and the edges of the woun having been brought together with sticking plaster, the whole is coverei with a compress, and put into a suspendor. (1) To render the cure satisfactory and perhaps, indeed, that it niay bei most con plete, the cut should not exceed a third, or at the most, half the length of the swem I as is proved by Ficicer’s (b) and Schrkger’s (c) practice, as well as by my own. 1949. The after-treatment is to be guided by the degree of the ensuin; inflammation. ' If not very severe, it must be borne; but in the othe case, it must be allayed by taking out some of the lint, by warm point' and antiphlogistic remedies. On the third or fourth day, the dressings ana anupiuuyiouc iou.cuic-. ...v, ^ ---- cndde to be changed, but the linen is not to be removed till it is quite souu The space between the testicle and vaginal tunic is to with pus. constantly filled with lint, and as it. diminishes less lint should be mtroau When the suppuration takes place, collection and burrowing of thejJ (a) Medic.-Chir. Trans, vol. ix. p. 38. 1818. (ft) Anfsiitze und Beobachtimgen, (r) Ohirurgische Vcrauche, vol. i. p. 125. vol. *• P-244'