RANULA. 407 Justic, or by its removal with the knife. With these several objects ■nous modes of treatment Iiave been proposed. First. Opening the >t relling with the actual cautery, (Pare',) or with caustic, in persons who j ir the knife with butyr of antimony (Zang.) Second. Puncture or | tting through its whole length (Louis.) Third. Cutting into the a filing and filling it with caustic and irritating materials, honey of roses 0 ;th sulphuric acid, (IIeister, Dionis,) lunar caustic, (Camper,) muri- i.‘ ic acid, (Acrel,) stuffing with lint (Callisen, Schreger.) Fourth. [ irtially cutting away the external wall, (Boyer,) with cauterization of ji e hinder Avail, (Sabatier, Vogel, Wilmer, Chopart, Desault, 4 id others.) Fifth. Introduction of a seton (van ber Haar and others,) . ixth. Introduction of a leaden thread, or of a bundle of lint (Louis, Sabatier.) Sevetith. Extirpation of the whole sac (Marchetti, 1 JicHTER, and others.) Eighth. Opening the swelling and in healing a >• tie cylinder of two flat small silver, gold, or platina plates, or a similar instrument of elastic gum. (Henning.) n Richter (a) recommends, in the ranula of children, cauterization with lunar caustic. i tier a clean good wound has been produced by the first touching the whole surface, e caustic is to be repeated as often as the wound diminishes. This is never required S» are than ten times. £ When the ranula is not large and old, and its membranes are thin, the opening of the / livary duct sometimes appears like an aphthous spot, and is only closed with viscid 0 atter or with a stony concretion; in such cases the duct should, according to Louis, ii hopabt, and Desault (£>), be again rendered pervious by introducing a probe, and deavouring to discharge the collected fluid, with which object the passage of the anal must be endeavoured to be kept open, by introducing a leaden thread, which must i; om time to time be withdrawn to allow the escape of the spittle. All writers agree « at this treatment is rarely suitable in its operation, as has been already observed in making of the nature of ranula, and as in many cases the salivary duct is found w Tvious, it is highly probable that a change in the condition of the swelling will take 1 face without it. 1770. Of the several modes of treatment, that proposed by Dupuytren I the most simple and certain. A small cut, or a puncture Avith a lancet made in the swelling, and after the fluid has been emptied, a silver, old, or, best of all, a platina cylinder, three inches long, an inch and a ) Jalf thick, composed of tAvo little elliptical plates, externally convex, and .Eternally someAvhat concave, and then the edges niay be fixed about the |lylinder. My OAvn practice confirms this mode of treatment; I have in 'very case succeeded in effecting a permanent cure ; the inner cylinder (reduced no inconvenience; and when after some time it aars displaced Wnd throAvn out, the edge of the inner plate having produced union, and ||iere was no return of the disease. Others have not had success by this ■eet od (von Graefe, Kyll.) And if the SAvelling should afterwards 'V urn, the removal of its front Avail is most efficient, for which purpose | must be lifted up Avith forceps, and cut off Avith Cooper’s scissors (c). modification of Dupuytren’s cylinder, which he provides with an fOn tV° i , the constant escaPe of the flu'd, I have found without objection, i tetiflmln W 10 e’ ^ thin„k. A*0 best method of treating ranula is by hooking up with lone ’!! a Pert,10n 0p wall, and cutting it out with a pair of scissors; which f ;3ut it is ° 1 le wound should be found and freely cauterized with lunar caustic. ‘Beninv r-',■ , nec<'s^ai1.y to repeat this operation two or three times before a permanent liroutrh i 6- es, ,.lsked. I have, in a few instances, passed a needle and thread hread tier! \ including a quarter of an inch of the wall of the swelling in ■•lowever 1 "v a owed it to ulcerate out. The success of this mode of treatmen • ' («A m a-• than t lat °f the former-—iJ. F. S.] tE«vre3'chim1^ere',i>S:l?'t,ln8’,i®^' ^°' (c)BbesObet; above cited.—Schabtleb; Unrurg., vol. ii. p. 217. oesterr. Med. Jahrbiicliern, vol. xvii. pt. iv. the treatment is,