537 TREATMENT OF. iff be proper (2). In phosphate of lime gravel the increased constitutional s irritability in general, and that of the urinary organs in particular, must be diminished by opium, by hyoscyamus, and the like, in combination with 3 tonic remedies. At the same time acids, especially the hydrochloric, must be , used, and if that cannot be borne, citric or carbonic acid. Much drinking, ?. which is usually recommended to favour the solution of the phosphates, is is in reality hurtful, and increases the already too great irritability of the >! kidneys and bladder. In the use of acids, however, it must be remem- bi bered that if the patient use more than is necessary for neutralizing the fj alkaline condition of the urine, and for dissolving the earthy salts which is are deposited, the white gravel indeed disappears, but, in its stead, uric ; acid gravel is formed from the precipitation of the uric acid, in conse- m quence of the acid state of the urine. The bowels should be kept open i with gentle, but not saline medicines; the living should be strictly 0 attended to : the patient should take easily digestible meat, light puddings, b which seem more proper than the use of vegetables, and food destitute^of - azote, although, according to Magendie and Chevreuil, the phosphates are diminished in the urine of carnivora by such diet. If any organic disease of the urinary passages or of the spinal marrow accompany phos- phatic gravel, a proper treatment should be had recourse to. 1 [(I) With regard to the medical treatment of the sediment from cystic oxide, Prout ri . observes, that it “ will depend on circumstances. In the first place, great care should 1 be. Paid t0 ttie digestive functions, and if the urine be acid, the alkalies may be taken ; with advantage ; on the contrary, if alkaline, the muriatic acid, indeed the latter, if the ■irritation present would permit it, might, perhaps, in all cases be employed advan- (t tageously, not only with the view of retaining the cystic oxide in solution, but of id..inducing the lithic (uric) acid diathesis. From the diseased state of the kidney also r with winch this diathesis seems to be so frequently associated, local counter-stimuli will’ n: be likely to be serviceable.” (p. 169.) / “ Jhe aksence °f urinary sediment, &c,” in the oxalate of lime diathesis, says - Ekodt, are of a negative character, and lead to no inference where other circum- Iwanting, as is most generally the case. But if there be pain in the region J kl-dneyJ and other symptoms of gravel, without any appearance of sediment, and ndhan infle JG ^ the yellow tinge above alluded to, the stomach deranged, l* and an inflammatory diathesis, either general or local, (i. e. about the urinarv or<niis V n.ie present, and if all these are associated with suppressed gout, or tendency to cutaneous Bndisease, the existence of this form of the disease may be suspected TSeans imZ RjoS i0, counteract it. Besides the general principles of treatment above men- adopted another principle, very different indeed from these but ^ th.mk 1 have sfn of considerable utility in two or three instances Tiffs has fS T?1CaVrr ‘V-h^gethe diathesis from that of the oxalate of lime to theliUdc ^iithlec^el r:j^>£*i£g^rati f* ? f^*-*-*** 0 olan of treatment reauires srmm Win-m,. * i nctd scarcely be mentioned that this s hould hardly in any case be adonted^™ ,vnd ^ ltS n'au(agernent, and that it 1 • wised to exist in the kidnev or hl-uld,.,- . disorganization or calculus is already sup- ■’ i p. 160-62.) ^ ’ °r Petdlaps in very young or very old subjects.” '! tep further°thanCifis^ hmf t tarniri• Jo,NE?’ “the oxydizing process is carried a She extent to which it is cirri 1 • ,i C1C^ ,^la,^'esf‘! exists; but it is still stopped short of Bndperhaps o^1rsubstanc#«enf1?tt^10 8tate.of health- * * * It is possible that sugar t ps ottier substances of the non-nitrogenous class, may, by imperfectly com-