773 CANCER OF THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. cancer of the breast, it may be very curative; in fungous cancer, it has not any effect at all (a). 2415. If cancerous degeneration appear after repeated removal or repeated application of caustic, or if the cancer be so situated that these modes of treatment are not applicable, we are restricted to the internal and external use of such remedies as specially act, partly against the local, and partly against the general symptoms, which arise from the absorption of die cancerous poison. To the former belong the internal use of arsenic t belladonna, cicuta, and digitalis, of cherry bay water, mercury, calendula, carbonate of iron, hydro-chloride of gold, fucus helminthocorton, iodide of potash, and the like For external application, weak solution of arsenic, . poultices of cicuta, belladonna, digitalis, calendula, of carrots with bichlo- ride of mercury, and of yeast poultices, powdered charcoal, lime water solutions of narcotic extracts, leeches, liquor of ammonia diluted with water’ expressed juice of onopordon acanthium, sulphuret of potash, carbonate : or phosphate of iron, made into a paste with water, and continued grach ! al y increasing pressure. With this treatment, the mode of living^must die? ordered! ’ ’ * *** mU8t be aV°ided’ and milk or vegetable 2416. In order to diminish the severe pain of an open cancer the - WIW kIke™> auence nf o ie't an/- ?^an.ldcer Passes into a cancerous state in conse- Sll .ant ,mtatl°". improper treatment, anti the like, a soothint P>ilt!csSauTet™le “.ropeated leeching, warm fomentations, and ■0 the existing together with attention A. OF CANCER OF THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. f 2418. Cancer occurs only on the lower lin it lmCf r Ur. ! « a primary affection nn 1 t P’ 1 least 1 have never seen it •ecomes very painful and hrenl-c n ? 11 , Jip’ w“lck enlarges, *e chin, tl71c„u ‘ClraTe of the mShf a,'y T" the sti" he jaw, and destroys the entire lip and the blne'° 8“"1S’ ' ^ gla"C,S belo'v £o™iS;^rtfe f rn *■ ^ % „M te„ il{LZlr°,p i'iylhe natur“l tissues of the lin. Tn th rt!!*1, t0 w,e tr!!e cancer, ie nn PfrtroPhic, and very considerably lengthened wn !' ’ *16 Papilla: of the cutis a Plaster of epithelial cells^hadlieen (hl-m i" Sf a?on t le whole surface of 2K7™. f “ «*•! *> was Jjg* coatinually grew, ,nd ten oo Vpdervns, and thus a cylinder was formed u- extremity with a thick ^ capable of being drawn like a SoSil »h«h the base of the papilla, i thr. C °re to eacl* other, were pushed a nan ltv ' e‘r ’’ entere(h These cylinders, ^he surfacc by a layer of epidermal scales SCallng’ th°ugh still held together y and presented an appearance neariv «n-y w®68’ the ePlthelium formation tn) c„n Im. , „ ,, appearance nearly allied to warts and condglomata. w) Henry e’a m^Onu' kI.mnisch- Annalen, vol. iii. ace'i inMed.-ChiV. Trans!, vol,.,xH.ep!f2^°Cal in the of diseases resembling