PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. 109 jase nothing remains but to diminish the size of the womb by breaking :he membranes, and drawing off the waters; or the womb remains lying in rout of the external genitals till the completion of the delivery, which in nany instances (which happens also in those prolapses occurring during lelivery) is effected merely by the natural powers, in some by artificial issistance, and even by cutting into the mouth of the womb (a). After lelivery the bulk of the womb diminishes, and the reduction is easy. [ (1) “ Ruysch forbids the reduction of the prolapsed womb when it is ulcerated ; •ut,” observes Sabatier, “ as this complication is only accidental, as it is only caused •y the continual rubbing to which the tumour is exposed, and by the acridity of the irine with which it is bedewed, no danger is to be feared from this practice. We 'erceive, on the contrary, that as that which causes and sets up the ulcers with which he vagina and womb are affected ceases by its reduction, the ulcers will heal of hemselves, when the womb is in its natural place ; and experience supports the truth f this reasoning.” (p. 365.) (2) “ When prolapse occurs during the course of pregnancy,” Sabatier says that its reduction must be attempted, which is sometimes tolerably easy, the pregnancy eing but little advanced, if the reduction be made at once, and care have been taken ■reviously to empty the bladder and rectum by the catheter and by clysters, and by utting the patient in a proper position. If, on the contrary, pregnancy be far dvanced, or if the prolapse have existed some time, the reduction becomes very difficult nd in this case it is more prudent to leave the part hanging out rather than to weary he mother and child by unavailing efforts. The womb, however, must not be left to self; it must be supported by proper bandages, and the patient even kept in bed to be ordinary termination of pregnancy. If the prolapse happen at the time of elivery, reduction becomes useless, and even dangerous. We must then occupv our- elves with the delivery of the child by gradually dilating the womb, which must be arefuily supported during the operation, which, though troublesome, presents no reater difficulty than when the womb is m its natural position. The extraction of the lacenta requires much care. It is easy to perceive this must not be left to nature and till less that the cord should be pulled in the usual way. The hand being introduced ',h°oh th °mb’ thk Plac<-nta must be detached according to Levret’s method After pp 369h370W)]IUb S'adUa y coutl'acts’ and the reduction is tolerably easy.” }2\5’ When the prolapse 1ms been returned, the ailment is only of slight xtent; and if it have not long existed, the patient requires to be kept several eeks on her back ; in passing her motions, she should avoid all straining- nd sitting up, and she should use local and general strengthening remedief volatile frmtures of the belly, astringent injections into the vaqina lengthening baths, especially tan baths, and so on (1). In this fesser eanx of the disease, sponges moistened with astringent remedies mav b introduced into the vagina (2). In complete prolapse the womb must .e 5„PS reta,”ed in “S P‘aCe b? “ ™«*a»ical contrivance; male parts, to thebdiy, and mihe^ack^bvmeans of^ °neht P Ik' “PP'md to the iy; and the water for this nnm™,. i?„ t __ a sPonSe> three or four times a iy; and the water for this purpose should be « & SponSe>,thl'ee or four time! ip spring. The water J /ff rendSedAffll^bolder bv thf tvT dra™ >*ng from a solid to a fluid addl 10n of »e matter u* i, • ^ ^ lcwuereu sun corner bv th< hWftVSlVtt oi Z°th CM p*» s mptoms are just beginning, and when thev ore i/gt CaSGS °f the disease> wh nch have been mentioned, they will be removed I,i.°..pr°Ceed fVom the causes the horizontal posture.” (p. <j5.) ■ a t • j , * v* Vr* / 7 3 vagLTLcomc vlty “ astrinSent applications to disposed to receive tho r1icr*in«Li ‘ ^ !ts diameter, and thus rendering it i-47 , oy Uinn p. 3/.->. Jalouset; in Journal de Medecine, vol. lxiii