[ 975 ] II—OF EXCISION OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. (Excisio Humero-cubitalis, Lat.; Ausrottung im Ellenbogengelenke, Germ. • Eesection Humero-cubitale, Pr.) 2835. Moreau’s (a) method of sawing off the elbow-joint is as follows : The patient lies on a table covered with a mattress, upon his bellv so that the ailing arm may be put at a right angle with the trunk, at the edge of the table, in the strongest light, and the hind part of the half-bent elbow may be opposite to the operator. One assistant holds the upper and another the lower end of the limb, and the brachial artery is compressed with a tourniquet in the upper third of its course. A cut of three inches length is now made, with a single-edged scalpel, on each side of the lower eni of the upper-arm, to the pit of the condyle, and both are connected by cutting through the skin and tendon of the m. triceps; the flap is now dissected upwards from the bone and held by an assistant. The fibres of the m. brachialis mtemus are next separated on the inner and outer side th^sof^nnrfT’ &T an ivory spatula-shaped retractor passed between it and the soft paits. The elbow is held fast with the left hand, and that part of the upper-arm-bone to be removed is sawn off with a large saw byPthe right hand The fore-arm is then dropped, the upper end of the sawn- ° pie.Cei°f ^°nehfted Up’ the knife carried in front of it, its connexions separated, and as it is set free, it must be decided how it can be removed without violence. If both ulna and radius, at their connexion with the upper-arm-bone, be deeply affected with caries, the fore-arm must be lifted JSh an \nC1 and a half lono> made on the outer edge of the upper of the radius, and a like one on the hind edge of the ulna The p between the two cuts is now separated downwards, the head of the freed from its connexions, a fold of linen, in place of a retractor smalTsaw inen 'l ^ th® S°ft parts’ and the diseased part cut off with a ,likp 1 ’ iUC1 a way as t0 Preserve the insertion of the m, biceps In Ihe Wnaner I'l6 UPPer 6nd °f the Ulna is laid bare> protruded by raising . , . ™’ dle eanous part sawn off, endeavouring to keep the whole or pa. of the insertion of the m. brachialis internus. 1 R °r -y!ng ,the Vesfe,s and cleansing the wound, the two flaps are lint a°n f int0 P ace and, fixed Wlth five s,ltlires, the wound covered with Wf b“ „, ^„Tpm„w a St,,1MTDS’S bandage- The is «o be laid lateral ligaments for the 'f the ulna is, that if cut through below the attachment ofnf rem/0vin.g.dle whole piece emoval is very difficult. tachmcnt of the in. brachialis internus, its notion is partially^sUoyell "'Xpuytuen reco° CUt ^lrou8h< b}' which sensation and he fibrous sheath in which it is contained and savlng this nerve, by dividing nner condyle, where it is to be held whik? !£'ug ^ nCrVe Wldl. spatula over the • AEoua are of the same opinion Svmf a£ — ^ 2 SaWn off- .Crampton and he inner edge of the olechranon and «ni Pr.esfrv,cs the nerve> which lies close to be made beyond the olechranon towards 7 >C CU,t ,thr0l,1?h if the transverse herefore be felt for and the knife thrust into the WW condyle. The olechranon must lose along the upper surface of the nIp, I J0Int, with its back towards the inside, nen cut transversely with a sawin. i’Ut ? little ncarer the radial side, and >e tough tendinous parts till the 00 Above cited, p. 42. ,, N o r (ft) Sabatier, p. 451.