916 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH CIRCULAR CUT.' tubercle of the shin-bone, as with the shortness of the stump, it easily bends back, and the knee becomes the point of support on the artificial limb The amputation may be performed with the circular cut, or with one on two flaps. 2718. The position of the patient is the same as in amputating through the thigh. The tourniquet must be so applied immediately above the knee- cap, that its head may directly compress the popliteal artery (l),and it ii intrusted to an assistant. Two other assistants support the leg horizontally, and moderately bent at the knee, the one grasping above the foot and tin other below the knee, and the latter at the same time draws up the skin moderately tight. The operator should always stand for this operation or: the inner side of the leg. [(1) The application of the tourniquet as here directed, is highly objectionable, for i must make violent pressure upon the popliteal nerve, and cause much unnecessary pain;. It should be put on immediately above the middle third of the thigh, and its pad should res- on the femoral artery, where it lies close against the inside of the thigh-bone.—J. F. S. 2719. In the amputation with the circular cut, the operator makes the skin cut, two or three fingers’ breadth, according to the size of the limb below the part where he will have to saw through the bone, in the samt manner with the straight knife, as in amputating through the thigh (l)i He then with his left thumb and forefinger takes hold of the edge ol tin skin, draws it a little up, and with sufficient strokes, separates together the whole fat and cellular tissue, all round from the fascia up to the place wherr the limb is to be removed ; the detached skin is then turned inside out, ant so kept by an assistant. The operator now grasps a straight long amputatin'; knife with his right hand, and sinking down on one knee, carries it beneatl the limb over to the inner side, places its edge close to the edge ol the retracted skin, and putting the left thumb and forefinger on the fore par; of the back of the knife, with proper pressure bears the knife towards him self and downwards, draws it circularly round the limb, rises up, and cut: the muscles through to the bone. He then takes a narrow double-edgee knife (or catlin) so that the thumb rests on that part of its handle eorre sponding to the edge, and the fore and middle fingers on that to its back* passes it under the limb, and places its edge, near the junction of the blade with the handle, upon the front of the shin-bone, carries it over the spine, and then with the point of the knife always following the bone, thrusts i from without into the interspace between the bones, down to the handld He now drops the edge of the knife upon the splint-bone, draws it, withoui leaving that bone, up out of the interosseal space around the hind surface of the splint-bone, and then thrusts it on the inside through the same spac>. up to the handle, bears it against the shin-bone, and again withdraws l upon that bone. In this way all the parts between the two bones and tht periosteum are cut through. Care must be taken in doing this, that thl point of the knife be not again pushed through the already divided muscles The muscles are now held back with a three-headed cleft cloth, of whic. the uncleft part is placed on the inside of the limb, and held by an assistant the middle head passed between the two bones, and then laid on the fro» of the leg, and the inner and outer head so drawn together over the sur face of tlie wound on the inner and outer side, and crossed with the uppe part of the middle head, that all the muscles may be covered. The assistaa now holding the cloth properly drawn together, the operator places Ins ie thumb on the edge of the shin-bone near the place where it is to be cw through, forms first a groove with the saw in the shin-bone, sufficient