421 FROM VARICOSITY OF THE PROSTATE. dik sides of it laterally. The best instrument in this case is a large elastic catheter; indeed, I should observe to yon, whether you employ an elastic or a silver theter in cases of enlarged prostate, you will always find it necessary to use an ^trument of full size, which will pass on much more easily than instruments of small •e. The best instrument is, the catheter made of elastic gum, and you should use • we which are made to retain their curved shape without a stilette. * * * If, however, u should fail in introducing such an instrument, you must have recourse to the silver heter,” and “ the extremity of the instrument should be prolonged, so as to represent >re than a quarter of a circle; * * * a third or a quarter of an inch over t, so as to enable the end of the instrument to rise over the elevated part of the )sthra.” (p. 811.) Brodie advises:—“ If there be a retention of urine, the gum catheter, without a wire stilette, may, in almost every case, be readily passed into the bladder. It is better to > a very small catheter, and to introduce it again, whenever it be necessary to do so, pin to leave it constantly in the urethra and bladder.” (p. 145.) As to the size of the theter in enlarged prostate, under any circumstances I must confess I prefer the ger, as recommended by Lawrence, for the reasons he has assigned, which have en verified by my own experience; and a silver to an elastic catheter, on account of greater firmness, which prevents mischief.—j. r. s.] 2) “ If there be reason to believe,” observes Brodte, “ that abscess is formed, you mid endeavour to procure an external discharge for the matter, in order to prevent bursting into the urethra. If the symptoms described exist, and go on for some time creasing, and you discover a fulness and tenderness of the perinceum, do not wait for y more certain indication of abscess ; but introduce a lancet in the direction indicated the tenderness and swelling. It will often be necessary to pass it quite up to the oulders, or even to the handle, before you reach the abscess. But you may do this lrlessly. There is no danger from any ill consequence from such a puncture. If ' "ere be abscess, you will, by this proceeding, immediately relieve the distress which e patient suffers, at the same time that you prevent further mischief. If, on the other nd, there be no abscess, the puncture does not make the condition of the patient worse n it was before. Indeed, partly from the loss of blood, partly by removing the sion of the soft parts of the perinceum, it is generally useful to the patient, even when ’oes not answer the purpose of allowing the escape of matter.” (p. 146.)] 1808. Swelling of the prostate gland from varicosity of its vessels curs in general, slowly, in old persons after previous hsemorrhoidal jnents, in stoppage of the bowels, after venereal debaucheries, after otypeated claps, with sedentary living and good living, after abuse of heat- fdg drinks, after frequent efforts in voiding the urine and going to stool, i; is always developed slowly. Emptying the bladder becomes more diffi- lt after violent exertion, after heating food and drink and the like. The ollen prostate is felt on introducing the finger into the rectum, but is e from pain, and the patient suffers no pain in the passage of the urine irough the urethra. The varicosity is situated rather in the coverings t ’ the prostate; the substance of the gland itself is therewith sometimes (Pift and spongy, sometimes tense and hard. I 1809. If this disease have any distinct cause, it must be removed. In Sjaieral, taking away blood from the perinceum, clysters of cold water or (i^coction of oak bark with alum, are sufficient. The introduction of the T 'theter is in this case always difficult, and the circumstances above nten- boned {par. 1807) should be always borne in mind. Sometimes a Ivvollen vessel is torn in passing; the catheter, in consequence of which feeding occurs, which gives relief. The inlying of a catheter is here fcj»ary for the purpose of compressing the swollen vessels, and by its pBcompanying irritation to excite their contractile activity. The treatment ■ l«TS *e(^ous> an(l no cure is to be expected under six or eight weeks. I 10. Hardening is the most common diseased change to which the Kirostate gland is subject. It occurs after previous slow inflammation, I 0S cor>nnonly after forty years of age, and earlier if the urethra be