337 OF THE RECTUM. ider such a disease, by the introduction of long [bougies into the bowel. The only idence of the existence of a stricture in these cases has been, first, that there a as obstinate costiveness; secondly, that a bougie introduced into the rectum could iit be made to pass beyond a certain number of inches beyond the anus. But what is -n e value of this evidence compared with that which anatomy affords of the rarity of ;>ais kind of stricture ? Are there not many causes of a costive state of the bowels, be- lies mechanical obstruction ? Will it be always easy, even in the most healthy rectum, ■ introduce a bougie more than a few inches into it ? Although we call the lower ' i >wel the rectum, you know very well that it is anything but a straight gut. Three or ur inches above the anus, the rectum begins to make flexures, which increase as you if bee it upwards, imtil they terminate in the sigmoid flexure of the colon. These flexures the rectum differ in different individuals, and even in the same individual, at different •riods. When a bougie is introduced, be it small or large, it is certain that it will be : bpped somewhere or another by one of these flexures ; and nothing can be more un- • lilosophical than to conclude, because a bougie meets with an impediment at the (lis- i \nce of five or six, or eight or nine inches, that this is the result of an organic disease the rectum, when the natural formation of the parts will sufficiently account for it. i\ jut let us suppose that you actually meet with one of those rare cases in which there is (stricture in the upper part of the rectum ; by what means are you to recognise the dis- se in a living person ? Or if you can recognise it, how can you know its exact situa- :: )n ? If the bougie can only be introduced to a certain distance, how are you to be cer- in that it is stopped by the stricture, and not by a fold of the bowel, or even by com- g in contact with the sacrum ? Further than this, if you employ the force which you ould suppose to be necessary to make the bougie penetrate through the stricture, is ere no danger of penetrating the tunics of the intestine instead ? This last is no theo- tical objection to the use of these long bougies in diseases of those parts. I will not y that I have seen the patients; but I have been informed on good authority, of not ss than seven or eight cases in which this frightful accident occurred, and the patients ed in consequence.” (p. 30.) Lastly, Bushe states :—“ Independently of the malignant mis of disease hereafter to be described, I have very seldom seen a contraction of the ctum which was not within the reach of the finger.” (p. 265.) I am afraid that the u inclusion of one of his notes is not without its parallel in this country, and ought to be * ;ld “P to the reproof it richly deserves. “ I am mortified to add,” says he, «that I have hod reason for supposing there are a few who make a profitable trade of treating dys- : :ptic patients for stricture of the rectum, asserting that the obstruction is high up, when truth, this intestine is perfectly free from structural disease. Such practitioners, by issmg bougies, apparently cure, what in reality never existed, and thus obtain a cha- ■ct^for skill in the treatment of this disease, which in truth they do not possess.”— 1631. The immediate cause of stricture of the rectum is always a more r less extensive inflammation or continual irritation of the rectum, in onsequence of which there is secretion of plastic matter, thickening and egeneration of the tissue. The causes are, hsemorrhoidal affections and bdominal plethora, anomalous gout, syphilis, metastasis of skin diseases, jppression of the usual discharges, frequent indigestion, badly treated Titation of the intestinal canal, diarrhoea, improper use of irritating urgatives, constant costiveness, injury of the rectum by foreign bodies, xtirpation of hsemorrhoidal knots, operation for fistula in ano, and . *^7! 513 I have witnessed in two instances. r.i«» VTu6 ProPnos^s differs according to the degree, condition, seat, and -ith 2 str.^ture- Membranous, circular, and strictures unattended isea Jtratl0n’lf not seated high up, lead to a favourable prognosis. If the eated v-e/nore adya!lced>the stricture accompanied with much hardening, ourahlp • Up’,atK lts causes cannot be removed, the prognosis is unfa- '■ ’ PerliaPs bv cautions treatment temporary relief may be lf the stricture have run on to btainpH PerhaPs by cautious treatment temporary relief may Icerathm^ D?r a perfect cure‘ lf the stricture have run or {lent not * Jf patient> generally, can scarcely obtain relief, and any treat esuhs T|SpeCIa ^ cau^10usi renders him worse, and hastens the evil esults VOL, II. pj * i ****** "uiocj dim iici *ne same happens in carcinomatous degeneration.