276 ANEURYSM OF THE Pulsation is soon felt in the swelling, which is at first indistinct, but sub- sequently becomes stronger, and as strong as in aneurysm 1 his pulsation is Synchronous with that of the artery, without a rush, and if the disease have previously made much progress, with extension of the swelling in every1 direction. Pressure on the principal artery of the limb, between the swelling and the heart, completely stops the pulsation, by wh ch theb well I- loses its tension and subsides, but returns immediately the com- pression of the artery is removed. The patient has often continued pain. Fn the affected part, which is swollen or wasted, and the motions of which are entirely, or only at the joint, in the neighbourhood of which is the* swelling prevented/ If the swelling be pressed with the fingers, there is often observed at some parts a crackling, as in squeezing parchment ?„ftge"hi or in breaking1/.. egg-shell. If the.one be competelyfe stroved the part may be moved m every direction (a). 11 the syrelllMl £ developed in the neighbourhood of a large artery, it may most coma monly be followed over the swelling. Nicol (b) has communicated a case precisely like mine. _ 1509 On examining these swellings after death or amputation of thd affected par the principal vessels have been found throughout their whole fu c uSiuH and neither by injection nor by the closest e—to could any trace of disturbance of their continuity be observed. On o,*a inn the swelling, the condition of the parts varied according to the « ferent decree of development of the disease. When the bone was » J d7stroy^,7he°aneiirysmal sac, of which .he walls were veiy thick oft« cartilaginous, and formed of periosteum, contained a quan j found but very thin, destroyed in some places, in others but s sXg the pressure of the huger, resembling a cartilagmo^ p am, wM yields to pressure and again rises or breaks like anes‘iefrom th neighbouring joint was always healthy, even whe . 1 ., Th aneurysmal °J only by the layers ^ reveral Cavities fiU^with it, wherewith every —^x£^^ aiT50l3.thThesCe swellings are developed on ^ nnt unfreauently on several bones of one and the sa 1 . , w skull, trunk, and limbs, most frequently on the upper bone# j below the knee, on the shin, or splint bone alone, jn ti , onceW (Pearson, Lallemanu, Dufuytren) ; but hardly ever middle of the long tubular bones. , , rnaj vi< I The occasional causes of these swelhngs are commo^ h vejgh.. lence, a kick, blow, fall, or any violent exertion in lifting a heavy . n !«1 Joura , a p„KI ills Zur Lelire von den schwammigen Auswiichsen del harten Himhaut unddes SchadeU. Heidelberg, 1831. fel. Erste Ueobachtung, p. 43. 7,) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Jo° July.