736 DESAULT’S MODE OF TYING NASAL POLYPS. As the loop -when moist does not remain open, and in drawing it together the pol ■ is not always grasped, it is necessary to guide it with the fingers of the left hand behi - the soft palate. To the loop catching the polyp, another of a single thread is attach. : with which, when the former being drawn does not catch the polyp, it may be pull. 5 -j back through the mouth, and so the necessity of reintroducing it with Bellocq’s cam: > be avoided. The loop may be kept open by drawing the thread in a piece of elas; tube, which when the thread has caught the polyp, may be so removed that one end the thread may be drawn till the tube appears (a). The tie is made as already directcfu For polyps which are developed towards the upper hinder part of the nostril towar >: the throat, I make use of a peculiar pair of forceps for the more certain introduction . i' the thread (6). Hatin has also proposed a similar instrument. It is further advantages a! in these cases to pass the ends of the thread, before drawing them, into a loop-tier 0: > Levret’s tube, and to introduce it as far as possible into the nostril, for the purpose - if thereby giving the loop a more vertical direction (c). 2337. In tying- a polyp situated in the front of the nostril, according . d Desault’s method, a silver canula slightly curved upwards, and a loo drawer, are introduced up to the root of the polyp, with one ligatu through the cavity of the former and the hole of the latter. The loo drawer is given to an assistant, who holds it steady, and the Surgeon tin carries the canula round between the polyp and the wall of the nostril, ai back to the loop-drawer. The drawer is now to be taken with one, ai the canula with the other hand, so that both instruments cross, ai the thread at the upper end of the canula lies above that of the looj drawer. The drawer is now held steady, and the canula brought baci both ends of the ligature introduced into the hole of a loop-tier, which passed up to the root of the polyp, and the loop-drawer removed after it h. been freed from the ligature by pushing forwards its stem. The tyir is managed as before (d). In cases where, on account of the large size of the polyp, the introduction of instrumet is impossible, the soft palate has been cut through, which, however, is rarely necessar- The following works may be consulted upon the different modes of proceeding, ai the different instruments requisite for carrying a loop around the polyp, instead oftyn or cutting it off:— j Glandorp’s Tractatus de Polypo Narium. Bremen, 1828, describes an eyed hook-i Dionis, Cours d’Ope'rations de Cbirurgie, p. 464. Eighth Edition. Paris, 1777, gw his crow-beak forceps. Junker et Gorter, Conspectus Chirurgiac, p. 221. Ilaloe, 1731. Chirurgiffi rep® gata, p 202. Vienna:, 1762; in which are mentioned the flexible needles. I-Ieister, Instructiones Chirurgica:, vol. ii. pi. xix. fig. 12, gives his eyed probe. Levret, above cited, pi. v. fig. 9, in which Lecat’s forceps are shown. In Memoires de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 598, pi. vii. fig- , III ITAC1UU1ICO 1 iAUUUVUl.u r- A Journal de Mcdecine, vol. xxxv. p. 235, gives his single and double cylinder, Bell, Benjamin, System of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 132. 1787. Second Edition—describ EycKHOLDT’s mode of treatment . Tiieden ; in neue Bemerkungen, und Erfahrungen zur Bereicherung der W un &n neikunst, vol. ii. p. 195, pi. iii. figs. I, 2. His forceps. IIatin, A. F., Mcmoire sur de nouveaux instrumens propres ii faciliter la hgatn’ des Polypes qui naissent de la base du Crane. Paris, 1829 (a) Punois, Propositions sur diverses parties de l'Art de gu.-rir. Paris, 1818. (b) Ueber die Einrichtung der chirurg. Klimk zn Heidelberg, 1820. PI. i tigs. 2,3. tc') Sabatier, Medectne Operntoire, vol. 11. „ 218 —A von Winter, GesrliSchte eines anssorst erossen ltachenpolvpen, durch die Abbindung nusgerottet, ncbst allgemeinen Bemerkungen uber die Ausrottung der Baclienpolypen uberhaupt; in von Sikroi.d's Chiron, vol. iii. P- ’ J Zano, Operationen, vol. i. p. 483. 00- . , (d) Hesaui.t, above cited, yob P" .*j0, ,t Bir.it at ; in Memoires de labocirte d - T „ an „. P 333, gives a mo<iificat.on of 5 B, , method ; but. acconling to m\ OVIV I more practicable.—Schreoer und jiteratu ■ --'■•n der Englischen und Yraniosisclien Lr i. p. 378, figs. 1-6.—Zano, above c.tcd, •187, pi. i. figs. 2-7. vol