734 OPERATION FOR NASAL POLYPS BY added for the purpose of pulling it out afterwards (1). The spring is no' - to be drawn back into the tube, the instrument removed from the nose- :i and the pad, by means of the thread, brought into the hind opening of th ; nostril so as to close it. The two threads hanging out of the nostril are t be separated and between them as much torn lint passed into the front open4ffl ing of the nostril as will stop it up, and then the two threads are to be tied t on the lint. An elastic catheter may be used instead of Bellocq’s tube, kflj [(1) Bellocq’s canula is one of the most clever and handy instruments ever inventec tt» and admirably fitted for plugging the nostril, or for introducing a thread any where, i vs which, without it, great difficulty, waste of time and annoyance, if not indeed great paial 1, to the patient, are experienced. I brought it five and twenty years since from Park ‘| and have frequently used it with the greatest facility. It is an instrument which ever: 9 practitioner should always have about him, and ought to be found in every pocket-cast.$9 It is not necessary to have any additional thread passing through the arch of the fance ttl| and mouth for the purpose of pulling the plug back, which is always best withdrawn b; i drawing it gently through the front opening of the nostril, pulling the thread by whicl I it has been introduced so soon as a purulent discharge begins from the nostril, whicl * generally occurs about the third or fourth day; but the plug must not be meddled witl : till then, as if it be the clot in the bleeding vessel is disturbed, and the bleeding returns-'* and requires the plug to be again introduced. I prefer a piece of very soft dry sponger K as nearly as possible corresponding to the size of the nostril, or even a little largeral which must be carried quickly through the mouth and throat to the hind opening of the :c nostril, otherwise it will soon be filled with moisture, and cannot be introduced ph-fl it has been clipped so small that it is useless. When the sponge has entered the nostri. j it must be gently drawn forwards till the bleeding cease, when it is to be left, and as iv . J expands with the blood it soon fills up, and adapts itself to the whole cavity of the nostril." i Stuffing the front opening of the nose is quite unnecessary, if sponge be used; and if the ll bleeding do not stop, the practitioner may be sure the sponge does not reach the bleeding. 9 vessel, and must arrange it properly by introducing a probe through the front opening: a of the nostril, and varying the position of the sponge till the bleeding be arrested, which rj is done easily, although in general drawing the sponge forward with the thread is suffi-sl cient. Sometimes there is a little difficulty in getting the sponge through the arch oi I the fauces, as it catches the soft palate, and pulls it either directly against the spine, or up against the back of the nostril; it is therefore best always to keep the sponge close to J the knob of the spring, as it is then most manageable. The thread by which it is j attached should, therefore, be merely threaded in the eye of the knob, one long end left* out at the mouth, and the other carried with the spring into the nose, and having been brought out first at the front of the nostril, there left. The canula is then, with its knob*! drawn close up, to be drawn back along the thread through the throat, and then by pulling the end hanging from the nostril, the other end of the thread with the sponge is pulled into the throat. If the sponge catch upon the soft palate, it may be quickly freed •'j by passing the finger into the arch of the fauces, and gently slipping the palate down* over the sponge, when all difficulty immediately ceases. The explanation of this pWj ceeding requires many w'ords, and may seem tedious, but the whole operation from d first introduction of the canula till the proper placing of the sponge, ought not to occaraf at furthest a couple of minutes, but often not half that time if the rules just ^ attended to. If Bellocq’s canula be not at hand, a common bougie serves the PurP~°j^ as well as an elastic catheter; it must be bent to the curve of a common catheter, a« carried along the floor of the nostril into the throat. The patient opens widely, and the end of the bougie being seen, is grasped with dressing forceps, and dra 1( forwards till it protrude from the mouth. A strong thread is now tied to the end ot ^ bougie, having a piece of sponge attached to its loose extremity ; after which the boup • I is gently pulled back through the mouth, throat, and nose, bringing with it the t ^ ? and the sponge, which is brought into the nose as directed already. This isnnicn ^ , tedious, and, compared with the former, a more clumsy proceeding, but is a good Any bleeding from the interior of the nose may be managed readily in the same way I —J. F. S.] *>1 2333. If, after the operation, inflammation ensue, it must be j by suitable treatment, but generally it soon subsides. When the et = litis been stopped by the plug, the lint may be withdrawn from 11