708 OPERATIONS FOR REMOVAL or are entirely loose, though on account of their rough surface they ca never be so movable as the inorganic concretions. The joint is in the*- cases always more or less inflamed, or even the subject of actual degener. tion ; whilst, on the contrary, the formation of the inorganic concretion little, if at all, interferes with the integrity of the joint. [In St. Thomas’s Museum there are several examples of these foreign bodies fror joints and ganglions, which support Hunter's notion of their formation. In one, the are numerous small flattened discs, not exceeding, a pea in diameter, which were evac . . .1 1 1 O xl 1 1 *l.n* End rvvAVmblv boon nn T*t r\T Q tplUlrtlJ ated^from a'swelling on the back of the hand that had probably been part of a tendo. - - ' -■ - ’ — 1 -e cbrin or albumen, and have hollo sheath, and had inflamed. They are composed of fibrin , . centres. In another, in which many, little bodies were in the wrist-joint about the size flattened peas, their surface has a cartilage-like appearance, and, when cut through, the substance is seen to consist of concentric layers of fibrin, with a small central holloi In other preparations of larger size the central hollow has disappeared, and the who; mass seems homogeneous, and resembles cartilage. There is also a fine example of tl result of synovial inflammation of the knee-joint, in which a large portion ot the ca tilaarinous covering of the joint-ends of the bones has been destroyed; but on sever parts of the synovial capsule numerous bunches of grape-shaped growths, with more (■ less thick stems, have formed, and one of these as big as a bean has become detache< and is loose in the cavity of the joint. I do not think, however, that this condition ca be fairly taken as an example of the ordinary mode of production of loose cartilage, though it certainly explains the process very well.—J. F. S.] _ * 2275. Of these several opinions Laennec’s seems best'to point out tl. progressive growth of these bodies; and to show the relation betwee- them and those bodies, which are in like manner developed on the surtao of the testicle and its vaginal tunic, and are sometimes firmly attached, sometimes quite loose. It is perhaps also not improbable that those toreig- bodies in ioints which have not a trace of membranous covering, whos surface is rough, powdery, their texture rather lamellar, and which haw the form of the space in which they are lodged, are produced in the sam manner, and that their previous structure is only changed by the rubDia- of the joint-surfaces, after they have been long contained in the joint iror which they have separated. , In other respects Laennec’s opinion is not to be considered gene satisfactory, inasmuch as experience has proved that portions of t le J cartilages are detached, or little exostoses formed around these cartilage, and may be broken off by accident (a) ; although Reimarus and oth incorrectly assume this as the general mode of their origin, " i gagni has denied, since the erosions frequently observed on thei ear^ surfaces have no connexion at all with the origin of these bo 1(ys’ are in general of spherical form, and greater thickness than t ic J tilages. Whether these bodies still grow after their detachment, a crease by the attraction of certain parts of the synovia, is not 0 tradicted ; the opinion, however, is doubted by many (b). hlain bodies are certainly formed by concretion of the albumen in the y and arc to be placed in the same rank with the foreign bodies w hi in great numbers in the mucous bags. ^ 2276. When these foreign bodies cause severe symptoms, i^ ‘, eDl0t 22(0. YV iien lIlcSlJ ioreigll UUUlcS tauoc --j r 7 tllG m# accessible part of the joint, or can be brought and fixed there, { ^ (n) Bkodik ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iv. p.27G. —Sc Scukkofr, above cited, p. 8. (ft) Samokl Coopkk, On the Diseases of p. 34. London, 1807.