SYMPTOMS. 551 iJ'l IT it' w & w si'- W' •H i-> *b i ii n * iff »« BO til' in; tfri bounding, which happened to the celebrated Trench Surgeon, La. Peyronie, in whom the stone was only discovered after death. « There may be a stone,” Brodie observes, “ without the usual symptoms, and there may be many of the usual symptoms without a stone in the bladder. In children espe- cially, the deposition of lithic (uric) acid sand by the urine will not unfrequently pro- duce not only pain in the glans, but bloody urine, and all the other symptoms of stone in the bladder.” And he mentions the case of a boy who suffered severely, but no stone could be found after repeated soundings. “ I then inquired more particularly,” says he, “ into the child’s health in other respects, and the result was, that I was led to prescribe an occasional dose of calomel and rhubarb, with rhubarb and sal polychrest in the intervals; and under this simple plan of treatment all the symptoms disap- peared in the course of a few weeks.” (p. 275.) I have known a similar case as regards the symptoms in a child, of two and a half years, who suffered very severely ; a stone was believed to have been felt, and he was cut, but no stone found. No violence was used, nor the bladder irritated by continued use of the instruments; but it being soon discovered that there was no stone, he was put to bed, quickly recovered of the operation, and at the same time lost all symptoms of stone. A polypus in the bladder may sometimes, from its irritation, produce symptoms of stone, and, being struck by the sound, may lead to the operation. There is a case of this kind in the Museum at St. Thomas’s; the patient recovered from the operation, but died some time after, when the nature of the disease was ascertained.—J. F. S.] 2024. By sounding, information can, to a certain degree, be obtained of the size and other conditions of the stone. If the stone be large, it is always felt at the point of the sound, whatever direction be given to it; if small, it frequently slips away, and is only felt at intervals ; if it be bossed, the sound is often caught. Hard stones give a clear, and soft ones a dull sound ; but in reference to this point the feel is often very deceitful. When a stone does not lie loose in the bladder, but is lodged in a sac, the sound, as it does not touch it directly, gives a feel which cannot decidedly distinguish between a stone and a fungous growth or other swelling on the inner surface of the bladder. Leroy d’Etiolle (a) has invented an instrument for measuring urinary stones ; it is easy, however, with the greatest care, to be deceived by it, as it is difficult to avoid grasp- ing the stone again and again in the same diameter. The best lithometer is, according to the observations of Sanson and Pigne, the common sound. When the stone is found, the beak of the instrument is to be carried to the hind end of the stone, and then brought gently forwards, moving it at the same time gently on its axis. At each motion the stone is felt, and if it be noticed how far the sound projects from the urethra, at the moment it touches the hind end of the stone, and how much further it projects at the time when the stone can no longer be felt, then the diameter of the stone from behind forwards may be determined. For the purpose of ascertaining the lateral diameter, the sound must be carried from one side to the other, and the extent noted through which its handle passes, by which means the lateral diameter can be measured. In order to hear distinctly the stroke of the sound upon the stone, and to guard against mistake, if the stone be covered with mucus, or if a hard part of the wall of the bladder be touched, it has been proposed to apply the ear to the pubic region. Moreau and Berier have added a stethoscope to the sound. Pfhiem (6) also, and Leroy d’Etiolle use a long elastic tube, the upper end of which is furnished with a stethoscope. [It is often difficult to ascertain the size of a stone, as its position may render it more or less accessible to the sound, and when its diameters are unequal the sound may travel upon it in such way as to give a notion of its size very contrary to that it really has. 1 he readiness with which the stone is struck immediately on the entrance of the sound into the bladder, and the less or greater ease with which it can be displaced are probably among the best means of concluding satisfactorily as to its bulk; and more especially if e time during which the patient has had symptoms of the disease be taken into the account; as if these have existed long, it may be expected the stone is large, whilst the contrary may be presumed if the symptoms have been recent.—J. F. S.] (?) -journal general de Medecine, vol. cix. p. 5. 1829. "ur/.tmrg j'j.j”SC0P °d'--r Ucsclireibung eines Instrumcntcs r.ur slclioron Diagnose der Ilarnblasen steine.