820 MODE OF USING THE SPECULUM VAGINAE, the cause has been syphilitic, properly managed mercurial treatment. Ir.l true scirrhus or cancer, the remedies directed {par. 2415) for cancer n 1 general may indeed lessen the sufferings, but never effect a cure. I his.I as in cancer in general, so in cancer of the womb, is only possible by the removal, or by the destruction of the scirrhous or cancerous mass. 2512. It is self-evident that the circumstances already mentioned (par 2410) as regarding operations on cancer in general, which either rendeij them difficult, impossible, or contraindicate them, are still more weighty in reference to their application to cancer of the womb, as decision upon* , the extent of the degeneracy, and the participation of the patient s health m is subject to still greater difficulty than under other circumstances. _ 2513. Examination with the greatest attention can alone ascertain tht:H condition of the womb, as well also as an inspection of the parts by mean, of the speculum vagina; which must be passed into the vagina as high ajj possible, so that the neck of the womb may be received into its uppe.-* opening, which can alone be distinctly distinguished when the speculumjj is illuminated with a candle. The specula uteri et vagina are rather conical cylinders of tin polished rior (Recamier, Dupuytren, Dubois and others); or two-armed (Lisfranc. Jobert Duges RmoRD • or three-armed (Busch, Ehrmann, Weiss) ; or many-armed (Gm Pox Beaumont Colombat.) The two-armed are usually most convenient. The following circumstances are to be attended to in the mtroductioui of‘thes«J«i uteri The patient is to be laid opposite the light upon the edge of a bc(J.or table’ J , her buttocks^ little raised, and her feet supported by < The practitioner standing between the thighs, separates with the fang 1 the S and holding in his right hand the speculum, warmed and smeared upon t < externaUsurfe.ce°witl? grease, passes the part next the commissure labiorum post** some lines deep into the vagina, presses it upon the commissure, and at^the mi® J raises the handle,so .h.t the par. resting by the finger ™ 1J resorted to if there is any affection of the vagina or cervix. M e have found_ it o confirming, and not unfrequently, also changing and rectifying haT mere tactile examination had led us to adopt, In this country great ^ been placed against the more general introduction 0f the patient, whic sequence of the disagreeable and revolting exposure * own p^ is usually considered necessary in its employment. We have latterly illtroduc tice endeavoured to avoid this very natural objection, 1 y ac 1 g . tll'e positio and use the instrument when the patient was placed on her left side, ^ c usually ussumed in making a tactile examination, and with the nates_ne tt » b the bed. We strongly recommend our professional brethren to fo V jn t and with attention to the management of the bed clothes, we have foundja^m ^ strument can be perfectly employed with little, or indeed without a^expos^ ^ body of the patient. The speculum is introduced easily without theassis t0 ex i the mouth of it only requires to be afterwards uncovered, in order to differen U amine the cervix uteri and top of the vagina. \\ e have made trial . n)a j forms of specula, and find, for almost all purposes that of Ricord by far tne ■ "a«Tn exposing the cervix uteri for the purpose of drawing empW^1 I tions, in cases of chronic congestion and ^ ( tlOUS. in V/* v... . . . tubular speculum with advantage, but even in this case („•) Lisfbano, Du Toucher; in Ills Clinique Cliirurgicalej in Gwette Mrdicalc, vol. i. P ((,) Above cited. 591- 1S3H