TREATMENT OF 362 monly laying the foundation for urinary abscess and fistula. The quickness with whicl they often soften by the mere heat of the part is so uncertain, that it is almost iinpossibk to be sure of the precise quantity of pressure which they will bear; and when the) once begin to yield, they speedily curl and twist in a very extraordinary manner neai their tip, and, though they may not actually penetrate the wall of the urethra, yet the) may seriously damage it by their increased bulk at this part, as the curve assumes the shape of a corkscrew to a less or greater extent. I have known bougies pushed through the urethra again and again, and false passages formed whilst the Surgeon supposed hi was making progress in the cure of the stricture, when, in reality he was making matten worse. There are, I apprehend, more false passages made with them than with an) other instrument, and few Museums are without examples of such results. 1 therefon have long since almost entirely given up using bougies, and prefer a catheter or a sound, as with either of these the precise quantity of pressure made, as well as the actual course which the point of the instrument takes, is more readily ascertained, anc if it be inclined to go wrong can be more easily and satisfactorily corrected. And with them there is little or no excuse for tearing the urethra. In addition to which, expe- rience shows, that the smoother surface of the metallic instrument greatly favours its movement along the urethra, and that its tip will often, without difficulty, overcome an) little spasm about the stricture, and pass through it, when it is impossible to make a bougie move on without ^mischief. I do not think it of much consequence whether a catheter or a sound be used ; perhaps the former has the advantage of showing at ones its entrance into the bladder, by the flow of urine through it, whilst the latter, on the whole, passes more readily, and with less resistance, as its own weight gently urges it- on if it be only kept in the proper direction. A silver sound is preferable to a steel- one as most practitioners who have been in the habit of using it will bear testimony: but'it should be solid silver, and not, as is too commonly the case, merely a silvei catheter filled with composition, which is not only less weighty than the solid one, but is liable to be broken in two if it be necessary to make any alteration in its curve, as le not unfrequently requisite, to adapt it to the particular case. I think, also, the conical form recommended by Asteey Cooper is highly advantageous, and of the best which can be used. A couple of them is amply suflicient for any Surgeon s armamentarium, of which the point of one should be that of No. 3 or 4, and of the other that of No. 5, increasing in size upwards to Nos. 10 and 12 respectively. Some practitioner; are in the habit of using a straight sound like a skewer, with a conical point; but if the stnetare be in the membranous part of the urethra, it is a very dangerous instrument in the hands of most persons, and not adapted, I think, for general use. _ The excellent directions given by Brodie for the introduction of the sound or catheter leave little to be added. The importance of avoiding all violence cannot be t<xi strongly urged. An instrument to be passed into the bladder should rather, as An nethy used to say, be “coaxed,” not forced. There are, however, other twopomL which must be carefully attended to in this operation; the urethra may fall into toms, either in its length, or in its transverse diameter, in consequence of which the P01®1 the instrument becomes entangled, and will be at once stopped, and may or maJr J! thrust through the side of the canal, although at the part where the hitch is, no s exists. The urethra folds lengthways, when the instrument does not comple e y for which reason it is always advantageous to introduce such an one as near ) size of the urethra, as will have a chance of its point entering the stricture , an ' convinced that there are few strictures in which it will be necessary to commence of* tions with one smaller than No. 6 or No. 4; provided the cure only of the stncmrt considered, and not the immediate relief of the bladder from retention of u • which case a small instrument is admissible. But small catheters or sounds ari times very dangerous, except in more dexterous hands than those by wtuen i • commonly Jj and, as they more quickly slip through the wall of the larger ones, the patient’s condition is rendered worse than before, beamseitoflen^c. necessary to suspend the use of instruments, if luckily the accident shot, d be tow**** which is far from commonly the case, till the tear has healed up, even if :orse opportunity for the escape of the urine, and so give rise to abscess, me tr. folding of the urethra most commonly occurs in the membranous part, and m • ‘ ^ whether the instrument be small or large, and the obstruction thus* pr°do«Verse fluently leads to the presumption of a stricture when none really exists, in > lhc folding depends on the penis and urethra not being sufficiently drawn forw. P instrument; so that, when the handle of the instrument is depressed to tilU he_po>^ behind the suspensory ligament into the bladder, the point lifts with it t Atten- in front of it, and, doubling it, forms a valve which blocks its further progre Y U ■ 0*9 rti Vi, >m 4/1 ilr a b’ti bit * *ir 190 tap xct to 0 . ,7P £ • uh hr