360 TREATMENT OF •will be so gripeil by the one through which it first passed, that it will go no farther f here, then, the metallic is useful; it cannot he indented, and, being exceedingly polished :< it slides on, but it requires great knowledge of the direction of the canal, and grea . gentleness in passing it.” _ In the following observations it will be seen that Brodie considers difference o ii% situation of the stricture requires corresponding modification in the treatment with 1* instruments. “ Strictures in the anterior part of the urethra, but behind the orifice,” says he g “require to be mechanically dilated by the introduction of bougies or metallic instru ments. At all events, I know of no better method of treatment ; and sometimes th> i patient obtains relief on very easy terms, the dilatation being readily accomplished, an> the use of a bougie once in three or four days being sufficient to prevent a recurrence O' ^ the contraction. At other times, however, the disposition to contract is so great, that; . becomes necessary to introduce the bougie once or twice daily; and, indeed, I hav 1 known cases in which the patient was seldom able to expel his urine until the bough. r had been employed. “ The simple rules which have been just laid down are not sufficient for the treatmen / of strictures at the bulb of the urethra.' The circumstance of these being situated when l the curvature of the urethra begins, at a distance of six or seven inches from the exter - nal orifice, and their liability to spasm, distinguish them from strictures in the anterio | part of the canal. The management of them requires greater skill, attention, am a experience on the part of the Surgeon; but, at the same time, it must be acknowledge!, K that it leads, on the whole, to more satisfactory results than that of strictures whict take place elsewhere. If you were to ask me, how then do you treat strictures at th • bulb of the urethra ? my answer would be, I have no particular method : sometimes. adopt one method, sometimes another, according to the peculiar circumstances of th. I case (p 49 ) The methods which are chiefly useful in the case of stricture at the bulb of tlie urethra, are: First, The dilatation of it, by means of the common plaster bougie. 1 Secondly, The dilatation of it by means of the metallic bougie, catheter, or sound Thirdly, the retention of the gum catheter in the urethra, and bladder, fourthly, I hi jj application of the bougie armed with nitrate of silver. . “ The common plaster bougie, if of small size, should be of a conical shape, but if 01 d a middle size or of a full size, it should be cylindrical. Ascertain the size of the stTean of urine, and introduce a bougie of this size, whatever it may be. If the bougie be ven small, it may be used straight, otherwise it should be curved like a catheter, but in a les decree. Neither you nor your patient are to be disappointed because the bougie does no enter the stricture at the first trial. In many cases this will not happen until yon have seen your patient three or four times; and in very difficult cases, the de ay may be stu greater than this. When a bougie has once entered the stricture and bladder, allow it t< remain for a few minutes. In two or three days introduce either the same bougie or on. of the same size. Then withdraw it, and use one of a size larger. Allow tlus m remain for a few minutes, and after two or three days more, repeat the operation, m by degrees, you dilate the stricture, until it is of the same diameter with the rest o ^ urethra. This method of curing strictures is applicable to a great number ot. and, whenever it will answer the purpose, I would advise you to resort to it in P1^ , to other methods. The common bougie gives little or no pain; it excites no *rrl ' unless it be introduced clumsily or rudely; and it can do no harm by penetrating . i tearing the membrane of the urethra. _ , which a “ The metallic instruments which I am in the habit of employing are not tnose ■ are sold under the name of flexible metallic bougies. These are liable to loee« shape which you have given during their introduction, and, in fact, are at the sam too flexible and too inflexible for any useful purpose. Those which 1 haTf’ ii • _1 J 1 _ _I n nnli.l ci 1 uni. th a lni..ruri Anne A f* Cl 1VPT Ol* StCClt V