150 CU11V ATUKES. the bearings of the limb, if its natural the recapability of motion, ami t he'»oht my ■nfluene XS.” • 4EE ", after the cure of “ ttaseare• “S“atura, eonnerion of = "sfSSSXtl osteomalacy, scrofula, venerraJ. ca exposed to the action puration, and so on. The softened bones are P force acting of the muscles, and drawn accord,mgomve them; bom upon them ; or the weight of yf tlv happen in the trunk anti which latter cause such curvings most frequently nat i the bones of the lower extremities occur at the same time, and Frequently do the just-descr d most commonly arise out in inverse proportions ; the curving , of unnatural activity of the m^cies ^ ndg on their extent 1329. As to the prognosis of cu > ^ fer the causes ongi- and how long the curvature has exsted,m ^ ^ and the less the nating them may be got rid ol. i-i J b prognosis. In older curvature, so much the more avoir treatment is always protracted, . subjects, and long-continued curvatu ’ ation of the disease can be and in many cases, often on y < so organic changes of the- prevented. When in L the disease is incurable, bones, destruction, anchylosis, an<J s° ° Uoi generally allow a better Curvatures depending on of the" bones. But if prognosis than those horn c nn , b i continUed curvature that their» the muscles have become so wasted y S difficult to determine, lengthening can be of no use, which is thev are incurable. , removal of the causes, and 1330. The cure of curvatures d®P , the curved parts. When the the restoration of the natural ire remedies must be employed as firmness of the bone. is. alteic , the special diseases which therapeutics have pointed °f Jb^esDtocrether with the simultaneous cause the changed coherence of bones “ b which the straight employment of is entirely ifTht dfseS state of the bony system be not removed; d ui. V lf the origin of the curvature depend on UV' ld according iSSr -edt^to the to the different causes. Usual y rubffing suppus rubbings into the shortened and contracted muscles, hut from ** stretched and lengthened muscles aie the motion and extensw KflS SSS arise* -ivity of tbe nerv* 11 i. i 11 ii i t it - i el r I („) Gaiettc Mcdicalt!. April, 183S. No. 14-