CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 164 increase some two or three years, and still more important, that for an equally long time, all the vague symptoms of inexplicable injury of functions, which accompany the completion of the deformity, are progres- sively and completely stopped (a). In these cases the curvature is connected with anchylosis of the vertebra, and the cure is impossible. In order to ■ ascertain this, the patient, having stripped, should be laid flat on his belly, and rubbed with spirituous remedies on the extended muscles, but with relaxing remedies on those which are contracted, and attempts should ; be made to restore the spine gradually to its natural direction. If the patient then feel a stretching and stress upon the curved part of the t spine, and not at the insertion of the muscles, it maybe decided that there - is anchylosis. This condition of the curvature is more surely indicated, if f previous or continued extension of the spine show no change in the curva- - ture. On the other side, if changes in the spine be observed on carefully y I lifting the body by the head (1), so that the feet do not support the weight of the body, or in extension whilst in the horizontal posture, there is more v hope of restoration. Anchylosis, however, is not very common, and usually ■ only accompanying a long continued great degree of curvature, and in persons of advanced age. The scoliosis, when it first occurs in adults, > rarely attains the first degree. The lordosis is most easy, the cyphosis the most difficult of cure. [(1) This practice of lifting by the head, to which Cfiei.ius very frequently recurs m these diseases, I think very objectionable and dangerous, especially in weakly children, who may be entirely free from disease, as the longitudinal ligaments of the spme may be insufficient to bear the weight of the lower part of the body. Astley Coopeb, in hay lectures, was accustomed to inveigh bitterly against the foolish trick of showing children the way to London, as it is called, which consists in lifting them up by the chin and back of the head. Ciielius’s proposal is of the same kind, and equally objecnow able.—J. F. S.] ^ 1354. The treatment of curvature of the spinal column must bet variously conducted, according to the different cause and nature of the deformity, that is, such remedies must be employed as counteract the! causes in which it originates, and at the same time, or immediately afta* the straight direction must be restored by mechanical apparatus and other means operating on the spine. In former times the first indicw tion was almost completely neglected •, the treatment was, for the most part purely mechanical, and partly thence, partly from the inadequacy of tW ' mechanical apparatus, was imperfect, and in most cases, even hurtWW Only in modern times has this treatment become the object of careflw inquiry, and employed on right principles, according to the different of the causes of curvature. A survey of the various machines and contn vances which have been proposed for the treatment of the spinal curv*“ ture, give proof of this. . 1355. The apparatus which have been proposed for cure of spinal cun ture, act either by pressure or extension, or both together. 1356. To the apparatus, acting by pressure, belong _ A First. IIeistek’s iron cross (5), which consists of two flat iron rods nected together in form of a T On the transverse piece are two n»g*»_ which the shoulders can be drawn back ; at the extremity of the v A piece descending along the back is a strap, by which it is attached body. B. Bell (c) has added to this machine a padded necK^Br (a) Delpech, above cited. _ (4) Institutions Cliirurgicie, pi. viii. f. 13. (c) Lehrbegriff, vol. v. pi. iv. f. 5, b, <■