OF THE WOMB. 117 re still in the vagina, the cervix is felt high above the pubes, even near to the navel ometimes taking the situation the fundus would normally occupy, the vagina being roportionately stretched and carried upwards,—changes which can only be explained y supposing that, at a certain stage, the inversion ceased to progress by descent of the ■nidus, and was continued and completed by ascent of the cervix. If the placenta be ill adhering, it precedes the fundus, is felt in the vagina, or observed at the external ibia, giving the attendant an impression of its being firmer than usual, and of greater ze. * * * If the placenta be already away, a convex tumour occupies the vagina, of greater or less size, according to the proportion of the body of the organ inverted, aving a soft, slightly nodulated surface, bleeding easily under the touch, its highest art encircled by the cervix. If the cervix only remain uninverted, the fundus and ady of the uterus may be so large as to fill the bony pelvis, distend the vagina and aider it difficult, if not impracticable for the accoucheur to reach the cervix; but as 'ten as the inverted mass prolapses at the vulva, the encircling cervix can be felt. * * * xamination above the pubes may enable the accoucheur to detect the orifice leading 'the peritoneal pouch, formed by the inverted fundus and body of the uterus, or in the ise of external prolapse at the vulva, to convince himself of the absence of the organ om the abdomen, (p. 283-99.) 6 In all degrees of inversion,” says Crosse, “ there is a concavity or pouch lined ith peritoneum, and open toward the general peritoneal cavity. In simple depres- on the intestines rest in the concavity; and as the pouch or cul-de-sac increases the testmes may, if the opening into it be large, occupy 'this pouch, so that in total version, with prolapse, they may actually descend beyond the external labia, still sting m the peritoneal bag, which the inversion has occasioned.” (p. 308.)] 1285. The inversion of the womb occurs either suddenly or gradually ; ie former is possible only during delivery, when it quickly follows if the oman be in the upright posture, and strain very violently at the moment hen the child is forced out; or it may occur from pulling at the navel- ring from too short or coiled up navel-string, and so much the more as .e pelvis is wide (1). The inversion may be produced gradually bv polypous growths at the fundus of the womb (2), by a slight in bending of e fundus, which remains after previous delivery, and gradually increases • which case there is frpnprallv nnlir • ... Zr>\ J which case there is generally only imperfect inversion (3). (1) According to Hachmann (a), there may be spontaneous inversion dependent on isnn probably from deficient contraction of the womb, analogous to partial contraction ■uch is observed m stricture of the womb, in which case, forinstance the Xefand eless /unrfas sinks inwards, is grasped by the contracting body, and descends com tely down to the mouth of the womb. e y’ u uescerms com- the wP^S'SnfP.0int7CLARKf °^seres “Itis said that inversion may be produced of a P°tyPfs attached to the fundus of the uterus. This cause mav of t Wi[h fierrstUram ^ocaen the subjects of this disease; but it wm be rarely SsSSlSSippSSalS 1st the volvvus of o-i-PQt riJL;*.. _te, exPulsi0IU to cause uterine inversion, 1st thepolypus h expulsion, to cause uterine inversion, iot unfrequently followed in^t. lntT f br°\d ba?,s’ and particularly the fibrous, 321.) by the disPlacemcnt question.” t first so partial,” says Crosse “^thaf^the ^ 7anous. as fr°m any other cause. ratur. Nov., Dec., 1831, p. 352.' 8everandenmg des Uterus ; in Hamb. Magazin der Ausliind