528 URINARY STONE ; Double. 1. uric acid and phosphates; 2. uric acid and oxalate of lime; 3. urate . ! * ammonia and phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; 4. phosphate of lime and pho ; phate of ammonia and magnesia. Triple. 1. uric acid and both phosphates ; 2. urate of ammonia and both phosphate. Sr 3. oxalate of lime, with uric acid or urate of ammonia and phosphates; 4. carbonate < lime, with phosphate of lime and iron. Quadruple. 1. uric acid, with oxalate of lime and phosphates; 2. uric acid, wit; , urate of ammonia, silica, and a phosphate. Quintuple. Uric acid, with urate of ammonia, oxalate of lime, and phosphates. [.Amorphous Urinary Sediments. The deposits from the urine, either as mere sediments without form, or in a state el crystallization, as gravel, are of so great importance, both as regards themselves, an. a in reference to the production of stone, that I have taken the liberty of supplying tbtj] deficiency of the special consideration of the subject of urinary sediments in Chelics^J work by the following extracts from the excellent work of Dr. Pkout. _ “ Litliic or Uric Acid Sediments. These sediments assume at different times very di ferent appearances, especially in point of colour; and they occur at different times, and i different persons, of almost every shade of colour, from nearly perfectly white to dee, mahogany brownish red. * * * I shall consider them under three heads only, whic will be found quite sufficient for all practical purposes, namely -.first, yellow sediments second, red or lateritious sediments; and third, pink sediments. “1 Yellow Sediments. These sediments vary m colour, from nearly white to th wood-krown of Werner, a colour which is stated to be identical with that of np hazel nuts They consist essentially of the lithate (urate) of ammonia, tinged wit: the colouring principle of the urine, but usually contain more or less of the phosphate and sometimes a little of the lithate (urate) of soda In general, perhaps, the neare- they approach to white, the more of the phosphates they contain; but there are man; exceptions to this, and I have seen sediments belonging to this class almost pofflL white, and consisting of nearly pure lithate (urate) of ammonia This class of sediment may be termed the sediments of health, if the term may be allowed, being such as ar. produced in the urine of healthy or slightly dyspeptic individuals, byerrorsofd. and all the other circumstances before mentioned which seem, independently of actua fever, to procure turbid urine. Perhaps there is no healthy individual whose urn does not occasionally deposit this species of sediment. * * When the^ ^unent^ are of an unusually pale colour, as is sometimes the case, a tendency to the phosphau is indicated Children are very subject to this form of sediment; and in them, as e as in all who labour under such a susceptibility, it is frequently the forerunner o gravel or calculus. Indeed nothing is more common than for this fo™ of sediment U alternate in the urine of the same person with the crystallized sediment, or graid, ^TaterUious Sediments. These sediments vary in tint from_ nearly white in which state they are with difficulty distinguished from the last variety, to a aeej brick-red or hrown. They consist essentially of the lithate (urate) of ammo . lithate (urate) of soda, tinged with a large proportion of the colouring principle urine, and more or less of the purpurates of ammonia and soda, -omit n . they contain a small proportion of the earthy phosphates. In general, the dltPl tint, and the more approaching to brick red, the more of the lithate (urate) an P^JT^ rate of soda they contain ; but there are some exceptions to this observ atiou. » ^ the purpurates exist in the urine, (indicating, as was formerly attempted to be sh ^ the secretion by the kidney of nitric acid,) lever.sh, or inflammatory cti constantly indicated; and this law is so general, that I have never seen a,hc cention * * * They owe their peculiarity of tint to the colouring matter of urine, which, in common with all its other principles, appears on such occa*1011* if secreted more copiously than usual. Hence urine which deposits the^sedmirott u usually of a deep red or hrown colour, and of high specific gravity. The i orai colourof the sediment, and the more approaching tored, the more ?e™rV£ftemnia- cvnlIltonis. * * * The urine of all persons labouring under feverish and , tory affections, and whose urine is naturally healthy, is liable to deposit^h'sfsl*£imcn, sediment * * * There are certain diseases, also, in which this variety of s ^ appears to occur in a greater degree, and in a more decided form than usual, The third and most rare variety of amorphous sediments is what