DIAGNOSIS. 509 in adults, the cyst should be laid bare with a cut, and removed with Cooper’s scissors. The following works may be consulted on Congenital Hydrocele :— Schreger, Neue Darstellungen aus dem Gebiete der Hydrocele; in his Chi- rurgiscke Versuche, vol. i. p. 1. Wall, C. A., De diversa Hydroceles congenitae natura. Berl., 1820. 1968. When a hydrocele is connected with a rupture, that is, when the sac of a congenital or accidental rupture has its usual contents of collected water and protruded intestine, the hydrocele in general rises up to the pre-existent rupture ; the hydrocele is rarely first present, and the rupture subsequent. In most cases rupture, complicated with hydrocele, is always accompanied with adhesion, and the hydrocele is the unnatural secretion of the inner surface of the rupture-sac, in consequence of the inflammation which has caused the adhesion. This inflammation may arise from undue pressure of a truss, from catching cold, external violence, and the like. A collection of water soon forms in strano-u- s lated rupture. 1969. The symptoms vary according as the hydrocele connected with a rupture is larger or smaller. For example, first, if the protruded intestine be quite full, and close the upper part of the rupture-sac, and the water collect only in the lower space, as happens when an inguinal rupture is added to a pre-existing congenital hydrocele, or a hydrocele to a congenital rupture, or an omental or intestinal rupture t adherent at the neck of the sac is complicated with hydrocele, then the form of the swelling is at first conical, with its base towards the ab- i dominal ring; but, in proportion as the water collects, the upper part of the swelling becomes narrower. If the rupture or the hydrocele be t congenital, the swelling extends to the bottom of the scrotum, then it is / surrounded with water, and cannot at all or not satisfactorily be distin- : pished. On the contrary, if the swelling be confined to the testicle, it can be felt at the under hinder part. Second. If the protruded intestine com- ! Fet.eJy enter the rupture-sac, and the water only spread over its surface and ‘ the interspaces, as in hydrocele accompanying ruptures which are movable enlarge easily, are very old, or are attached to the bottom of the rupture- sac, then the swelling enlarges more in breadth than in length, and mostly assumes an oval form. Third. In a congenital rupture, when the upper part S “f canal ,ls narrow> and little extensible, the water may com- ?„®Je y tihe Wh° 6 *?ag> and merely a small portion of intestine or omen- wffi.Te ? externally through the abdominal ring, and be surrounded ■■ ith the water Fourth. A small intestinal rupture, when accompanv- tf )h= .a Previously existing hydrocele, may remain in the canal between I Prevented“bT?!. ““fw aM“mi",al rillSs>in whioh the rupture is 1: menUoned. Stn0ture ® Ca"al exceedi"g ‘he bounds just I with^runture f°f ‘.hT different torms of M^cefe, complicated The fnlPtuye’ ls> in many instances, accompanied with great difficulty |„ph'fmZfZTT™’ !‘°^Ver’ lead t0 iL 1,1 case, tile Shard but dnLbv J? hng’ W ien 1lutestine is t'mre, is firm, elastic, and Ptains’ the water W-ltjVan om®nta.1 rupture ; the lower part, which con- Ea reducible ’ ? yield'ng]y elastic, sometimes even fluctuating. With I ^ reTinS’ after its return, a fulnefs at the w ucli cannot be produced by a piece of intestine, be-