499 PROGNOSIS; SPONTANEOUS CURE. i turbid, thick, somewhat sanguinolent fluid, corresponding to the size of the swelling, S' nd a thick glutinous matter are found. And liocaoux (a) has shown from the ex- ); uiiuation of six bodies that it depends almost exclusively on fluid in the vaginal tunic. [e believes, that if, in the after-course of the disease, fluctuation he no longer percep- ) ble, it depends on the sensitiveness of the part, which will not bear a close examination ■ ad that, when dispersion begins by the absorption of the thin fluid, the swelling takes u the same character as if depending on swelling of a solid organ. t Velpeau (6) considers that there may be an outpouring into the vaginal tunic, but rnt this is slight, and does not constitute the disease, that the pain of an inflamed tes- i ele is greater than when depending merely on fluid, that no transparency can be ob- i, >rved, and that the examination of the swelling with the fingers shows the epididymis gj irticipating in the disease. Blandin (c) holds that the state of the parts differs A ccording to the period at which they are examined; that at first the inflammation B.escends from the vasa deferentia to the epididymes and the testicles, and a swelling of PS lese arises, but that afterwards, and when the dispersion begins, the effusion is a prin- Ipal symptom of the disease. Pigne (d) remarks, in opposition to these statements, that i young persons affected with this disease, whose hydroceles have been operated on ith setons, in spite of the escape of fluid from both openings, a hard, irregular, pain- d tumour, of the size of a turkey’s egg, is produced, which can only depend on swelling the testicle. To this I would add, that after the operation by incision, the hydro- ■le, sometimes from the swelling of the testicle itself, most decidedly acquires the ze of the swelling previous to the operation. i 1938. The prognosis of hydrocele is favourable, and proper treatment t > Sects a cure, if it be simple and without complication ; but if there be a in ardened testicle, the cure is only possible when the testicle can be brought v ack to its natural condition, or is removed. If the hydrocele be left to i self, nature alone cannot effect the cure, which however is not infrequent bl l children. 1939. The cure of hydrocele is palliative or radical. The former con- t -sts in drawing off the water by a puncture with a trocar or lancet; it is squired in all those cases, where the radical cure is not proper, in very old ersons, when there is also hardening of the testicle, and when the patient C» ill not submit to its extirpation ; if there be intestinal rupture, connected L ith the hydrocele-sac, or with the testicle, in very large collections of ater, and in those cases where the condition of the testicle cannot be i -eviously ascertained. The trocar is, in general, to be preferred to the , ncet, for emptying the hydrocele, because the fluid will pass by the • inula, and not escape into the cellular tissue of the scrotum. The lancet > ay be used when there is but little water, and accompanying intestinal n-ipture, or hardening of the testicle, because with it all possible injury * ay be easily avoided. J [Spontaneous cure of hydrocele sometimes, though very rarely, takes place. Brodie • •> ™ u-CaSe °f tllIS klnl*’ in w 1,1 ch the patient not liking to submit to the operation, ' dcmI v Jffe w so large that he was obliged to resort to the “ old clerical cassock to uanrnty. When, however, he had had the disease for some years, the I )uhl«l isappear, and ultimately went away entirely, so that he was never Paeons,aherwards.” (p 90.) Astley Cooper mentions another mode ofspon- 4 ^ rean hydrocele be suffered to remain and become of large size; if the I fmnalis amt ^ nec?ssity of labour to obtain subsistence, inflammation of the tunica I iica ta'T„r ‘m W,lH aP8e f™m excessive distension. A slough of the scrotum and I mmation c!,^ ls,prodllce^> ,and as.it separates, the water escapes; a suppurative in- . n. r \ succeeds, granulations arise, and the patient in this way receives his cure.” ft iond ctsi. se®ras t0 lne that this is precisely what would have happened in the I 3Pin„ fu! speotimeous cure related by Brodie ; had he not checked the mischief by i t a turhirt k^lrocele’ and drawing off “ some ounces of fluid not like that of hydrocele, Be sometimes ,um’ s.uch as y°u fil‘d effused from inflammation.” (p. 90.) Hydroceles * A b 8t by a bl°W’ but’ accordil>g to both Cooper and Brodie, the disease yl V Atxivc cited^CC ’ ^®ancc Sept- 2/, 1896. (c) Gazette Mnilicale, vol. iv. p. 038. 1836. (tf) French Translation of this Work. 2 K 2