719 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. I commonly it has the nearest resemblance to the somewhat softened brain of a child. On the surface of this substance run a quantity of blood- vessels, the trunks of which spread upon the surface and in the depres- sions of the swelling, and the branches penetrate into its substance. If the tumour be examined in an advanced state, when it has already attained i tolerable size, its substance has a very different appearance at different parts. It sometimes resembles pus, and is of a whitish or reddish- white colour; in consequence of the outpouring of blood and a greater levelopment of the vessels, certain parts have often a dusky-red colour, nid appear like lumps of clotted blood. Sometimes the substance is so nixed with blood that it has no longer any resemblance to brain, but has 1 reddish, blackish colour, and has the consistence of partially-dried and :earable dough. Some pieces are often dusky yellow, and resemble yolk >f egg in consistence and colour. In general, however, certain parts till retain their brain-like character. Some firm cartilaginous, and even )ony spots, are often observed in the substance ; and the latter is especially mticed when the disease occurs in the eyeball. J The chemical examination of of the brain-like substance shews that it consists of Ibumen, fatty matter, osmazome, lime, magnesia, phosphate of potash, sulphur, and nosphorus, and consequently, as regards its elementary parts, it is similar to the sub- thje brain.—(Maunoir, Bartcky.) According to Brande’s (a) statement, the . “'f. 1 element of medullary fungus is a peculiar fibrous matter, partly insoluble L °flc a?ltL , The fat which the jungus contains, cannot be converted into soap, and pntains phosphorus, like the fat of the brain. P W $;i0Zillg 'S the auaIyS1S of the braiVlike substance of medullary fungus given Albumen White fatty matter Red fatty matter Osmazome Fibrin . Water . . Oxide of iron . 47,00 7.50 5.35 4.00 6.50 8.00 1.35 Subphosphate of lime . , [soda Carbonates of ! lime . . (magnesia . Hydrochlorates of | PQjaSSa Tartrate of soda 6,30 2,75 4.00 1.00 2,70 2,00 0,35 /° Hfrc'IT.(c)> gelatm is found in this substance, though less in quantity eeektfn *)Ut lts proportions vary in different stages of medullaryfuiwul liht It wo ng I" ®re.a.ter quantity than the albumen in the first, or stage of crudity ■ f'iK »■ lull’r Sue (Pp!°5n)] appearauce of the he attributed to the addition of some e- Tn^S whfti*jk°Un t, I” the m,e(\uHalT matter, in addition to an unnaturally loose or I S 7t} S ^hstanee and branching vessels, a quantity of round amlVvTcor- ti-emb’ling pus-globules1\ter’ 0Paf]ue-wbite, transparent at their edge, uneven | a line in diameter. ’ & S°’ smallcr> smooth> clear globules, from jfoth to BJDth I n of T disea^Sd h!to thS “ n° peCuliar tissue, but merely an infiltra- altered Th’ T5 T“ge> * which '«'* dfateffll . . m?st vanous forms. The white fluid squeezed out presents, when I fe?tsr ^“5 vs . j ^,^LE,f,l,Tra*tc d’Anatomle Patholosrinnp ^natomiscl> - mikroscopisclio Untersnch- • P-4oG. Paris. 1H20 ° 3 e> ungen zur allgem. undspeciell Pnthologie,part i.- ix. Leipzig, 1839.