728 OPERATIONS ON POLYPS. polyp grasped with them, and separated by a twisting rather than a dra'Wgf motion. This method is simple and quick ; it is usually followed slight reaction from the injury done, the neighbouring parts are ^ damaged, nor disturbed in their functions; recurrence of the dise ^ less frequent after this than after other methods. But tearing ou applicable if the polyp have a broad base, if it be attached to yielding if it be very deep seated, and if difficulty in stopping bleeding bc ,oar ’ (, 2316. Cutting off the polyp, which some of the moderns endea' ^ . a 1 A * • . . 1 1 * 1-1 .1. t 1 Wl f\ 1 QPjlJ't bring into general practice, is only applicable where the disease deep-seated, and the introduction of the instruments necessary But in fleshy polyps, with the unnatural growth of the parenchyma, the , is also an arterial vascular system, they live as self-reproducing substanc< in which an organic circulation can be observed, and the cellular substam <■ is converted rather into a fibrous texture (a). From this circumstan. « the blood-vessels in polyps are sometimes found very numerous, often $ very small quantity, and at other times entirely wanting. Therefore, t | opinion held by some may be correct, to wit, that polyps have no veSBfiifl but merely possess blood canals in their tissue, which are not like bloo j;4 vessels ordinarily separated from the surrounding parts (&). Polyps are formed in all ages, in either sex, in every constitution; tin are most frequent in adults, but rarer in very old persons. The occasional causes are dyscrasies, especially scrofula, syphilis, ai continued irritation of the mucous membrane by -external influence i producing a condition which is kept up by irritation, and give anothiM tone to the vegetative process of the mucous membrane. In this latt- \ circumstance, is probably the reason that polyps are most commonly seate * at a little distance from the passage of the skin into mucous membran and that they frequently occur in the womb. In many instances the aetiology of polyps is quite obscure. 2313. The prognosis is guided by the nature, form, and seat of tl polyp. Mucous polyps are in general more easily cured than those whic are hard ; the harder a polyp is, the more is cancerous degeneration to 1 dreaded, which when once set in, no cure can be effected. The broaik the base of the polyp, the more difficult; and the more it is necked, tl easier is its removal. Such is also the case when the polyp is developt near the outlet of a cavity, and when the proportionate size of the latter t the former does not interfere with the employment of the necessary instn ments. The more completely a polyp is removed, the more certain is tn cure ; if bits of it remain, it is developed afresh ; nevertheless, even afttt its complete removal, a recurrence is not infrequent. _ j 2314. The cure of polyps is effected by tearing, or by cutting them of by tying them, and by destroying them with the actual cautery, or othe escharotics. The choice of these several remedies must be directed the individual case. The drying used in former times, the tearing to pieces, (Paclcs/Egiseta, i- - casis,) torsion, (Buodon,) the squeezing to pieces, and pulling away piecemeal0 P° are now but matters of history. . . . 2315. Tearing out polyps is performed with the polyp-forceps, w i when the seat of the polyp is well ascertained, are carried to its r00^. th< als< operation can be effected without injury of the neighbouring Parts ^ Annalen des Chirurgischen Cli- (6) ^ Meissner, Korf*** (rt) ScHREQER nicumj* aufter Universitat zu Erlangen, 1817. Erlangen, p. 47. scliiedenen p. 13. Leipzig, 1320.