633 PEOSTATAL STONES. ■acquired the size of a goose’s egg. Upon this Vincent cut, “and gave exit to a *■ hundred and forty-six calculi of various figures and sizes, the largest being about the I ,ize 0f a horse bean. After the pouch had been emptied, there were several in that ISrort of the urethra next the bladder which were removed, and two of the number came i-n-ay the next day. The cyst consisted of a dense and tough membrane like parchment, [t communicated with the urethra its whole length, and graduated into it, so as to offer I 10 abrupt nor partial connexion with it, and appeared to be formed by its dilatation. After the operation the patient retained his urine, passing it voluntarily through the wound. The stones consist of the fusible compound mixed with thin alternate layers , >f urate of ammonia, which are more abundant at the centre of each calculus; the irate, however, does not constitute a distinct nucleus.” (pp. 137, 38.) In the College Collection there is also another very curious case of Vincent’s:— i1 Numerous small calculi, which with about two hundred others, were removed from letween the prepuce and glans penis of a very old man. The patient had congenital i ihimosis, the orifice of the urethra scarcely admitting the introduction of a common . irobe. From the presence of the calculi, the prepuce was distended to the size, of a ! arge pullet’s egg, and retention of urine was finally produced. On dividing the pre- nice, oue of the calculi was found completely blocking up the orifice of the urethra. The glans penis was in a state of ulceration, and a large portion of its substance had been I ibsorbed. The patient had, during many years, occasionally experienced great pain [and difficulty in making water, and latterly he had a constant stillicidium. The calculi W ire composed principally of the fusible compound ; most of them have a small nucleus 0; f uric acid; their external surface is varnished over with urate of ammonia. From jfitihe composition of the nucleus, there can be no doubt but that the greater number of i it iese calculi had passed from the urethra into the sac of the prepuce; and their irregular la. >rm and close adaptation to each other, proves that in this situation they had increased teionsiderably in size by the deposition of the earthy phosphates.” (pp. 39, 40.)] } 2146. These stones may be removed by sufficiently cutting on the > arts containing them ; and if the stone be in the perinceum and deeply .bodged, attempts should be made from the rectum to press it through. If feie cavity in which the stone lies, be very large and hardened, it may j»;e advisable to remove part of its walls. The after-treatment must rt e conducted according to the rules laid down for urinary fistula, n Further notice of this subject may be found in l Louis, Me moire sur les Pierres hors des voies naturelles de l’urine; in Mem. de ./ Acad, de Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 332. : Ilse ; in Medical Observations and Inquii-ies, vol. v. p. 336. i Walther; in Salzburg Med.-chir. Zeitung, vol. ii. p. 253. 1812. i! Keein; in neuen Chiron, vol. i. p. 16. :■ Graefe, Ueber Scrotal-Steine; in his Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, [ mol. iii. pt. iii. p. 400—pt. iv. p. 695. B! Chelius, Ueber Scrotal-Steine; in Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. i. pt. i. [VII.—OF PEOSTATAL STONES. ff ■ Stone is occasionally formed in the prostate gland. This, “though "hot of urinary origin,” remarks Prout (a), “ is very liable to be mistaken 9; >r such, from the situation in which it is formed. Of this there seems to |?e two varieties. The first variety is usually formed in the natural Mivities of the gland before it becomes much disorganized. They are ■enerally small, and more or less rounded in shape, and of a yellowish- 1 :rown colour. The second variety seems to be generally found in roscesses of that gland, where they are sometimes met with in great 9 umbers. These are usually of much larger size than the first variety, and I' ave a h’gMy polished porcelainous appearance. The composition, how- J ver> of both varieties is essentially the same ; that is to say, they consist (n) Inquiry above cited.