CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE IN WOMEN, 620 in the one on the under and left side, and in the other between the urethrc I and the arch of the pubes. The great objection to this method is self a evident ; the pudic artery, the vagina, and even the rectum, are exposes! to injury, on which account this operation is generally discarded (a). 2128. Lisfranc’s vestibular cut is to be considered a modification o j Census’s operation. After the patient has been placed in the usual pos ■ 1 ture and bound, two assistants draw the labia apart. The operator stand i ing between the legs of the patient, introduces a common male staff through t the urethra into the bladder with its convexity upwards. An assistant i then grasps the handle of the staff, and draws the urethra and vagini , downwards. The operator, after having assured himself of the position o < the pubic bones, and of any variety of the pudic artery, by the introduce tion of his finger into the vagina, places the left fore and middle fingei upon the points where the cut is to begin and end, and with them stretches the cellular tissue. Then holding a straight bistouiy, as a pen, he makes a semi-circular cut through the external membrane, and the stretched cel- lular tissue of the vestibule, which is to begin on the right side at cor- respondent height with the orifice of the urethra, runs within the pubic I arch at the distance of a line, and terminates on the left side at a similar < height to its beginning. The cellular tissue is then divided layer by layer » in the same direction till the front of the bladder is cut through, in doing j which all pressure against the bladder must be avoided. The left thumb is now introduced into the vagina, and the left forefinger into the wound, and the wall of the bladder therewith made tense and pressed forwards. A longitudinal or transverse cut is now made into the body of the bladder with the bistoury, or if this seem to be unsafe, the cut is to be made on the groove of the staff, or a dart sound may be used, upon which the bladder is opened and the forefinger being passed into the wound, it is to be enlarged either longitudinally or transversely with the knife (b). 2129. This proceeding of Lisfranc’s is objectionable on very many grounds. The cut is made into the bladder where there is least space, consequently the extraction of even a moderately large stone is difficult, and accompanied with bruising; the pudic artery, the position of which, cannot be well determined by the examination before the operation, may be wounded; the front of the bladder is easily separated from its cellular connexions ; the vascular net at the seat of the cut, often much developed in stone-patients, may be injured, and the wound in the bladder may slip from the external wound, in consequence of which there will be infijtra- tion. It is difficult to understand how in using the dart sound, at least with its usual curve, the dart can be protruded some lines above the nec of the bladder (c). Piers Uso Walter (d) has practised Lisfranc’s vestibular cut successfully in a •woman of forty-five. 2130. von Kern’s practice, which he has successfully followed, is the following. After the patient has been properly placed and the staff intro- duced into the bladder, an assistant standing on the right side, holds the staff with his left hand and sinks it a little towards the patient’s right Dissert, sur la Lithotomie clici la Femme. Strut*-* («) Mery, Observations snr la Maniere <le tail* ler les Deux Sexes pour l'Extruction de la Pierre, pratiquee par Frere Jacques. Paris 1700. (1) \ Memoire sur uno Nouvclle Mctliwle de pratiquer POporation de laTaille ehc* la Femme; in Revue Meuicale, vol. x. p. 1. 18.3. Meressk, (e) IIauory, L., Dissert, du meilleur l roe, a employer pour l’Operation de la Taillc c Femme. Strasli.. 1823. . . (dy VON (jRAKFE Ulid VON W ALTERS * vol. xviii. p. 283.