DROPSY OF THE BELLY; 484 incurable patient, merely for the purpose of relief, and the accumulat of water be very great, only a third, or, at furthest, not more than lu should be allowed to escape. When the fluid is so thick that it cam: escape through the canula, it is recommended to introduce a longer troc or to enlarge the wound with a knife, or with a piece of tent iutrodur. into the wound (2). A round and tolerably thick trocar is undoubtedly the best instrument for tapping ( [ (1) Before the operation of tapping is performed it is always advisable to pa: catheter so as to ensure the emptiness and safety of the bladder ; and this may alst. useful in correcting any mistake in the diagnosis as to the cause of the swelling, si o-i-eat distension of the bladder, from retention of urine, may so completely simu dropsy as to deceive the most wary ; at least, since John Hunter was deceived, : tapped a distended bladder for dropsy, if Everard Home tell truly, it well beht others to be cautious. . . , In women, also, it is especially necessary that no mistake should occur with reg to the condition of the womb. I knew of an instance in which a pregnant woi would most certainly have had a trocar thrust into the womb by a very eminent b geon had he not been providentially prevented by the better knowledge of an able p titioner in midwifery. Such dreadful errors have, however, been perpetrated. (2) I do not think a trocar of any kind is the best instrument for tapping. I were certain that the walls of the belly were always thin, and not tough, it might, j haps, be so, though I doubt it. But the wall of the belly is very often, nay, very quently thick, from effusion into the cellular tissue between the skm and muscles, ■: often tough also, and therefore the trocar requires to be thrust in with more force t is advisable or safe ; and it is only surprising that, in the careless way in which tapp is too frequently performed, so little mischief results from it, as too frequently danger of wounding an intestine by driving a trocar with a plunge into the belly u the hilt, does not seem to enter the mind of the operator. I much prefer the On: practice of puncturing the wall of the belly with an abscess-lancet and then in ducing a blunt-ended canula through the wound, notwithstanding Samuel Loop. assertion that “ it is superfluous.” Immediately the lancet, which should be rntrodn with its edges vertical, has entered the cavity, the fluid begins to escape, aud a bl canula can be passed without difficulty through the wound. In this way there u opportunity, or at least as little probability as possible, of injuring an mtestine, the wound, instead of being a bruised one, as it is from the trocar, is a simple clean most favourable for union. . . . I do not recollect to have seen any instance in which it was necessary to stop escape of the water from the belly on account of the overloading of the vessels or a ing. It is very true that in tapping a dropsy faintness does often occur, but depends on the want of support which the diaphragm suffers from .thejrithdrawa the fluid, which had previously thrust it up into the chest and diminished the of the lungs ; but when, by the escape of the water from the belly, and consequent re of the diaphragm from pressure, the lungs aud heart have increased room, au *. of receiving, aud do receive more blood at the expense of the brain, thei ensues. To prevent the diaphragm losing its acquired support, and to proem sudden descent and the consequent fainting, the common practice of a■ £bee passed round the belly, crossed on the back, and the two ends continually but pa. pulled by assistants, so as to keep the sheet tight and support the remaining cori t the belly against the diaphragm, and not merely to hasten the flow ot tue waw generally supposed, should be always employed. „nfppon If whilst the water flow off the patient become faint, which is not at all nnnF* the tightness of the draw-sheet should be carefully attended to, aud wine or given m such quantity as may seem fitting.—J. F. S.] 1918. When the water is emptied, the operator grasps the canula » the fingers of his right hand, closing its mouth at the same time wiJ finger, whilst with the fingers of the other hand the wall ot th . held back, and the canula slowly withdrawn by turning it on i I'/i'l Upon the different forms of trocar consult MANN.Uetersichtderberuhmteste^undje ^ C.usovius Dissert, quanovemParacenteseosinstru- liclistcn Instrumente, p. l mention ortertur, rfegiomont 1722 ; in Hallers Akiolog.e. Collect. Dissert. Chirurg., vol. v. p. Oil.— Ahnk-