895 AFTER-TREATMENT. (a) Above cited, p. 411. as they usually can be by pressure for a few minutes with the finger. Under such circumstances, they must be tied without hesitation, and generally no evil results follow. One of my late colleagues, Tyrrell, always tied the veins at once, if they seemed disposed to bleed. I have tied the femoral vein many times, and in but a single case with ill consequence; the patient had inflammation and pus in the iliac vein ; but as this occasionally happens, without a ligature having been applied, it may be questionable, whether the ligature was the cause of the mischief or not.— J. F. S.] 2695. When the vessels are all properly tied, after the wound is cleansed from blood, and the surrounding parts are dried, the dressing must be pro- ceeded zvith, which effects the cure of the wound, either by quick union, or by suppuration and granulation. Many Surgeons leave the wound open from six to teu hours, and during this time cover it with sponge or compresses, dipped in cold water, for the purpose of thus guard- ing against after-bleeding. Dupuytren (a) specially advised this mode of treatment, and followed it in all cases. The advantage of this proceeding is, that if an after- Si !i ens.ue’ ^ie v^ssel caii be at once tied. Small retracted vessels, generally, do not I bleed, even if some time be occupied with the operation ; they are retracted among the • spasmodically contracted parts, but some hours after when this condition subsides or ‘ there is a greater flow of blood to the wound, they begin to bleed. If the dressing h’ave been applied, the bleeding is first noticed, when it becomes completely penetrated by i the blood. The wound is filled with clotted blood, which renders the discovery of the vessels very difficult. I have treated in this way those cases only where peculiar cir- ; cumstances afforded the probability of an after-bleeding; as a general practice, how- ever, I do not think it advantageous. [Chelius's opinion on this subject is most certainly correct, the exposure of the sur- ; lace of the stump should be the exception and not the rule; and if practised, should not be continued more than three or four hours, within which time, with due attention the patients warmth and circulation will generally have recovered the immediate shock • ot the operation and the clots in the little vessels will either have been forced out or ecome so completely fixed as to prevent bleeding. The practice sometimes adopted of covering the whole face of the stump with a thick wad of lint dipped in water kneading jn’ an« Ieavmg it on for twelve or fourteen, or even twenty-four hours is bad - as uunng this time the adhesive matter is poured out, and instead of sticking the surface drffifflthenW°Undi t0guther’ Stlcks the lmt t'gkt’y on. so that it can only be removed with Uittculty and with great pain to the patient, and indeed, imperfectly, as the fluffy part fnV»hh remal"s tangled in the surface of the stump, the whole of which must there- elL fred by suPPuratlon befo,,e union can take place. If the Surgeon will or no CL ° l k S,tU.“P T,n’ and WU1 apply C0ld water t0 if’ lineu " Inch has little „..JforP ! e bela,ld hehtly over it and not. kneaded in, and frequently replaced J the k. firm y; h?1 a lght sponge 1S stiU better‘ Some practitioners^leave I Stu.mP e?p"sed> not merely to guard against after-bleeding, but because they fancv ■the union will be better if the surface of the wound have first glazed with the adhesive p1 f“"d m"d‘ *“""*«• S*i~dgb? etp”^s ^ 2696. To promote quick union, after the circular cut, an expulsive Jandage is put on, from the upper part of the stump nearly to the^nd of - ( he sawn oft bone; the edges of the wound are brought together in such I'”'" “i *?• ?rm » verlic“' «Wt O). andSi„ tluf position are . he ti stnPs sticking plaster, passed from one side of the stump to iaid iIlThpSOrhaVt ,e TUind iS COmpIetely covered. Upon the plaster is JLhich is fasterm?10-?! °f 1,e W0UIId.? Fidget, and over it a wad of lint, Cenir! ,! } ‘ an°mpi;eS3 laul crossways over the stump, with some The toi ° Ur|IS- a ? m a S0 made to pass over the face of the stump. fe)Sdfno. TUb 13 apphed Ioosel1y> 80 as to compress the artery in case of > he cnt°si. f. K P& ie?-t '? P,U.t V* ^ed’tbe stuniP so placed upon a pillow, that • f.-i cradled 'r TT? little higher than the nearest joint, and protected (by J1 ) o that it be not pressed by the bedclothes. On account of the