374 OF CLOSURE AND and then a lancet thrust in, with its edges upwards and downwan tf. through the closing membrane, and reunion prevented by the inserti * of a piece of linen smeared with oil, or of a piece of bougie. In t £ latter, a thin trochar must be pushed in, according to the direction of t >. mouth of the urethra, till it enter the canal, which must be kept open I introducing a piece of bougie; or, if this cannot be done, the urethra * to be opened where the collected urine bulges it out. I was obliged to & this in an accidental case of growing together of the urethral orifit a arising from a destroying venereal ulcer, in which there was not the les « trace of an aperture in the hardened part to be discovered. When the urethra opens at some distance from the glans (Hypospadias) it will necessary for the relief of impotence consequent thereon, to perforate the glam witl k trocar up to the false orifice, to introduce a canula, and to heal up the lower openi: I which must be previously scarified. It is rare that this union can be effected, whi however, does not always frustrate the object of the operation, as the discharge of i j semen through the new aperture will take place. According to Walther (a), 1 J closure of the lower aperture should not be at all cared for. It has also been ad vis. 4 if this operation do not succeed, to cleave the glans from the urethra up to its very t d and to heal the wound over a tube introduced for the purpose, or to cut off oblique d a piece of the glans from the false urethral orifice to its tip. The cases, however, . % rare in which this degree of misformation becomes the cause of impotence. In c case, a child in whom the urethra opened at the root of the penis, Dufytjtren formed, by means of a thin trochar, a new canal, which he cauterized throughout its wb 1 length with the actual cautery ; and after the severe inflammatory symptoms had past I by, and the slough had been thrown off, he kept it open with an elastic sound. T fistula closed. XI.—OF CLOSURE AND NARROWING OF THE VAGINA. 1703. Closure of the Vagina {Atresia Vagina, Lab : Verschliessu* 4 der Mutterschiede, Germ.: Imperforation du Vagin, Fr.) may either a vice of the first formation, or may occur subsequently by its grtr < ing together. In the former case it may depend on union of the labia ai -! nymplice throughout their whole extent, in the midst of which common ;t a white line is perceived, through the hymen, which has no aperture, ai 4 is also both firmer and tougher, or by a similar membranous closure mo or less high in the vagina, or the passage of the vagina is closed byj fleshy mass. In the latter case, the closure of the vagina is the cons quence of a growing together which takes place after ulceration ai 4 wounds of its walls. _ , J 1704. If in congenital closure of the vagina, the orifice of the be not also closed up, it is rarely discovered before puberty. Then ? J menstruation comes on there is pain in the back, pressure, straining, weig ^ in the genitals, fullness of the belly, frequent urging to void the urrnr I sometimes complete retention, difficulty in going to stool, and the UK and no menstrual discharge appears. These inconveniences at first appe monthly, and subside ; but at last, when the collection of the blood is co siderable, they no longer subside, but increase every month, and gener I symptoms appear also, anxiety, pale countenance, pain in the belly, tain ness, loss of sleep, labour-like pain in the genitals. If the collected b _ 4 can find no outlet, it gradually increases in quantity, so that it disten s womb, and empties itself by the Fallopian tubes into the cavity 0 j belly, or menstruation may be set up in some unusual way. (a) Salzb. Med.-CUir. Zeitung, vol. i. p. 188. Edit, par Sanson (et »EO'">vo1- .iSjUt! I jgjg' fknbach ; in Hamo. waga*. (/>) Sabatier, Medecine Oporatoire. Nouv. vol. iv. part i.