381 AND CESOPHAGUS. »r its the effects of the operation ceased : he opened his mouth freely, and without pain, ail the sinus filled up. Bodies may sometimes be thrust into the mouth, within the arches of the teeth, and hen there become so fixed by the elevating muscles of the lower jaw, as to be incapable e removal without assistance; I knew of a case of this kind in which a girl thus fixed i apple in her mouth, which was only removed by the medical attendant cutting it to ieces.—J. F. S.] III.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CESOPHAGUS. 1 Hkvin, Precis d’Observations sur les corps etrangers arretes dans l’CEsophage, et dans n . Trachee-artbre, avec des remarques sur les moyens qu’on a employes ou que l’on peut jtnployer pour les enfoncer ou pour les retirer; in Me'm. de l’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. i. M. 444. , Bordenave et Destrejieau, De corporibus extraneis intra CEsophagum haerentibus. aris, 1763. 4to. | Venel, A., Nouveau secours pour les corps arretes dans l’CEsophage, ou description de latre instrumens plus propres qu’aucun des anciens moyens, a retirer ces corps par la juche. Lausanne, 1769. - Monro, Alex , Jcn., M.D., The Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gullet, Stomach, id Intestines. Edinburgh, 1811. 8vo. Gcattani, Essayes sur l’CEsophagotomie; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol iii ) 351. Eckholdt, J. G., Ueber das Ausziehen fremder Korper aus dem Speisekanale und jr Luftrohre. Kiel und Leipzig, 1799. Large 4to; with plates. Nacta, Dissert, de corporibus peregrinis ex CEsopbago removendis. Workum "303. ’ Vignarbonne, J., Quelques propositions sur l’CEsophagotomie. Paris, 1805. Yacca Berlinghieri, Della Esofagotomia e di un nuovo methodo di eseeuirla. isa, 1820; with a plate. 1727. Bodies may remain sticking in the oesophagus on account of their •nze or hardness, or their irregular pointed surface. Bodies are often re- i tsiined in the oesophagus, which, as regards their size and character, might i ithout difficulty have passed through it, in which case it would seem i iat their fixture must be ascribed rather to a spasmodic contraction of b tat tube. The stoppage is commonly at the upper or lower part, and nrely in the middle of the oesophagus. ' [I recollect several years since examining the body of a man who was brought to the * •)8P,tah and supposed to have died of apoplexy. On accidentally removing the tongue mrrnx, and neighbouring parts, an enormous lump of beef was found completely fil?ing’ | ) the whole pharynx, and compressing the epiglottis. Inquiring about the circum- l ances of his death, it was ascertained that, whilst eating soup for his supper he sud- uny rose from the table, went out of doors, and shortly after was found dead’ near the 1 'r,efho d- The preparation is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. I have known an instance occurring twice in the same person, who, had he not been ; medical man, would probably have been suffocated before assistance corld have been .lamed. In eating his breakfast quickly, he suddenly felt choked, could not swallow h,S th,ro!lt> and could not breathe; he thrust his fingers back to try and *he morsel> lia whlch he succeeded, and found the small portion of meat Wowed was attached by a thread of cellular tissue to another portion, which had ' ^effort ?g ed iV hlS tYCth,’.and thread had Pressed dowu the epiglottis, so that cond tlm! lY lWa °W made hlm Stl11 worse- The same accident occurred to him a nd time, but was in the same way relieved.—J. F. S.] J1728. The symptoms produced under this condition are, local pain :tm0 ,|Cfl,C01ntraction of the esophagus, disposition to vomit, choking’ ■ CU!-y 10 S,Wa!lowin^> symptoms of suffocation, and frequently irtlv f';tt;;Yatl0n’ wh.!ch dePend Partly on compression of the windpipe, KK hrJ iiSpaT0dlC,CYntraCti0n of the 9lottis‘ Sometimes, and, if the ) small and painful, there is merely a local painful sensation. The