207 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 1411. After the obliteration of the trunk of the vessel the circulation is carried on in the limb, by the collateral branches, which enlarge con- siderably, and are connected with each other by numberless anastomoses. In many cases a more direct and manifest anastomosis of the vessels take place, so that after the closure of the principal trunk, the stream of blood it once passes by the neighbouring branches ; in other cases, the collateral circulation is only undertaken by small numberless anastamoses (a). Upon the different ways in which the collateral circulation is produced, and partly dso on the point of time when the vessel is examined, after the obliteration if the principal trunk, may depend whether the collateral branches appear more or less, or even not at all, enlarged. The frequent examinations, in ivhich, after the obliteration of the principal trunk of an artery, the other irteries of the limb are found considerably enlarged, do not therefore contradict the equally true observations, in which this enlargement is not. Pound (b). *1412. The remedies which have been proposed, generally, for the treat- lent of aneurysm, are, rest and antiphlogistic treatment, the application f cold and contracting remedies to the swelling, the compression, and tying f the aneurysmatic artery. 1413. Strict rest, lowering treatment, restricted diet, repeated blood- etting, even to the greatest degree of weakening, (Valsalva’s plan,) and he internal use of digitalis, are the only modes of treatment by which the ■ure of internal aneurysm may perhaps be effected ; in which indeed, :nder great diminution of the circulating power, the blood coagulates in ,u|he sac, and the aperture, whereby the sac communicates with the artery, is Closed. In certain cases the area of the artery may be at the same time [reserved, (par. 1409,) but in others the coagulation of the blood extends (llito the atrery, and shuts it up. In true aneurysm, a diminution and •Contraction of the walls of the artery may thus be effected. 1414. The astringent remedies employed for the purpose of restoring I leir elasticity to the arterial coats, or for effecting the complete coagula^ 1 on of the blood in the sac, are, applications of cold water, pounded ice (1), o ark, oak bark, and so on. If this mode of treatment, which was formerly Tnployed, have in many cases a satisfactory result, it may be in part ascribed - j> the compression generally at the same time employed with it, and more n specially to keeping the patient at rest. Perhaps, however, all share ‘ 16 -f-ess must not deniec[ t0 these topical applications, as they i e capable of favouring the coagulation of the blood in the sac, and in f ns way promoting the cure (c). l°orGicwf w-ftl I^rd!uUX’ aPPeavs t0 have first proposed the application of pounded d„£d”T'C±,;rry‘mr s,“ (?; "d tho“«h» *«««»!« ™ Ivantarrp nf ,y 1 R, t says, that “subsequent observations have proved the ' medv ” And L r V thls y’ have d,sslPated all doubts as to the value of this Paris, No 4 hl thG mUtin de la Facult*de 'ed a considerable^^timLfttr L A°P aneu7s™ was thus cured. The patient »w in the Museum of the Sol, dlsaPPearance of the tumour, and the preparation is : have seen ice apolied m a We ■ ^1Clne’. 0n,the contrary, Hodgson says in that its emnlovment f g gUln?' a“eurl8m- but it produced such excruciating I loyment was from necessity discontinued.’’ (p. 163.)] ° ) II.OOSZ, H., Dissert, stir l’eraploi dcs J^tngerans dans les Anevrismos extornes. Paris, (d) Recueil Pcriodique de la Societe de Sante, a Pans, No. 3.