699 CURE OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS BY DISPERSION. r he snrrounding parts, they have become adherent to them, and specially to the skin, i rhich by degrees yields to their pressure, and ulcerating, they burst, as the cyst itself, j i hough sometimes as thick as a shilling, tears very easily, and may be split into flakes j i esembling recent fibrin. If left to themselves, after bursting, these cysts produce » roublesome sores, which continue till the cyst either comes away or is pulled away piece- si neal, and then the sores heal. But nothing of this kind happens when the swelling is I ormed by an obstruction of the mouth of the follicle; the follicle either yields to - he accumulating sebacin, and enlarges till, as in Astlev Cooper’s own case, it ^acquires considerable size, but can be emptied by gentle pressure of its contents, D nd nothing further happens beyond the recollection of the sebacin. Or the follicle uflaraes and suppurates, forcing out with the pus the little mass of hardened sebaceous natter, after which the inflammation quickly subsides, and the follicle resumes n ts natural office, without, however, anything which has the least pretension to a £ yst having been discharged. It, therefore, seems to me that from the different courses * hese two forms ran through, they are of decidedly different nature. To this it may also b * added, that the tumours resulting from obstruction of the follicles, have occasionally W heir contents converted into a projecting horn, in the way which Erasmus Wilson has ki .escribed, as already noticed; but so far as I am aware this never happens when i jhe cyst is globular, close, and of the recent fibrous character which I have noticed, Send which is almost invariably seated in the scalp.—j. r. s. (2) The ossification of an encysted tumour or of its ’contents is very rare ; Dal- tmple (a), however, has mentioned an example of “ a small tumour, which he removed n'-"tom beneath the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid of a middle-aged man, which instead i s f the usual cheesy matter contained an apparently eai'thy or bony deposit. This tumour a. .as somewhat larger than a pea, and composed of concentric layers of hard earthy haaterial, and in form, was rounded, except at the surface immediately behind the con- ivmctiva, where it was somewhat flattened and rough. * * * Upon examination by the a' horoscope, the concentric layers of this tumour were found composed entirely of epi- Mlium scales, closely agglutinated together; but instead of the usual transparent and nnin lamina with its central nucleus, they were thickened and hard, and contained I r.a,nu\^ ear% molecules, which could be removed by immersion in weak muriatic S cid. No amorphous earthy deposit existed around or among the scales, but the whole •as composed of this •epithelium opaque, >of a light-brown colour, with a clear and urge central nucleits.” (pp. 238, 39.)] 2255. To encysted tumours Ganglia (Ueberbeine, Germ.) are allied; ; iey are round, of slow growth, rarely exceeding the size of a pigeon’s ftbgg, and in general, consisting of thick-walled cavities, developed in the ieighbourhood of joints and sheaths of tendons, containing a fluid similar ■ V> synovia, with a greater or less number of little white cartilage-like ; '0(hes; in some cases, they must be considered as partial expansion of it ne tendon sheaths, but more generally as actually new productions (b). ieY c°mmonly arise from external violence, pressure, violent straining of 01»tendon and the like, on which account they are most frequent on°the 1 ack of the hands and feet; in some instances, they seem to originate ’ ’om constitutional causes. As long as the swelling is small, it produces ] "convenience; but when it acquires large size, it interferes with mo- no,.?" 'in lndame and suppurate, tiresome ulcers are produced (c). hoW T7 °f ^cysted tumours is .effected in various ways, the ith M S de.pends on the,r seat and size, their mode of connexion neo ?e,ShbourinS Parts, their mobility or immobility, the nature of tl0drr^Of the SWelhn^ and the excitability of the patient. These f treatment consist, first, in the dispersion of the swelling ; second, ith tZ v T °r .removal with the knife ; third, in its removal lanv on '°a Ure. ’ Jour"li in opening the tumour and destroying the cyst. 2257 ses require a. combination ot these modes of treatment. .-vlistertj ri’ 07 • L° dispei-sicni of encysted, tumours, volatile rubbings, j ispersing plasters, escharotics, and a multitude of other reme- N(.») M*okkl. - ,(?> Mfrt-'CWr. Trans., vol. xxvi. 18-13. Archives Oincr. do M(^Pl324.'T,]K?v:np.U2"2: o/th^^vofume'!'1''6 bee" “lrC !'ly n°'iccd “t P' 45!>