THE ARTEKIA INNOMINATA. 247 (from the middle of the base of the breast-bone directly upwards, in the mesial line of the windpipe. After dividing the cellular tissue and fascia, several little veins appear, enclosed in loose cellular covering; these may very easily be put aside, as they run in the same direction as the wind- pipe, and terminate in a large vein, which is visible at the lower angle of the wound. The cellular tissue is to be removed, and now the internal 3ervical fascia appears; on both sides lie the sterno-hyoideal muscles, separated by an interspace of two or three lines, and the fascia occupying it being cut through, the windpipe is reached. With a blunt hook the right sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, are to be drawn outwards, which exposes the second inferior thyroideal vein, in the bottom of the wound, sometimes considerably expanded. If it be of the usual size, the mint of the scalpel should be carried on its outer side, and the fatty cellular issue carefully divided, the handle of the scalpel carried downwards, |uid so the arteria innominata reached. But if this vein be considerably Enlarged, it must be got under from within outwards, and the cellular .issue in that way divided ; this, however, must only be done with the landle of the knife, as otherwise there is no safety against wounding it, rhich is here of the greatest importance, as this vessel empties itself into he vena cava descendens, and, if wounded, severe bleeding would occur rom the reflux of the blood. The hook is to be carried under the artery >1 rom left to right. Manec (a) directs the head of the patient to be bent much backwards, that the neck shall be greatly stretched, and the vessel to be tied rought up to the upper edge of the breast-bone; and the face is to be iclined a little towards the left shoulder. A cut of three inches’ leno-th to be made from the middle of the space dividing the two sterno-mastoid uscles, towards the right shoulder, half an inch above the collar-bone, trough the skin and m. platysma myoides; in the same direction the erno-mastoid muscle is to be divided, and a director having been passed nder the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, they also are to be ivided. For isolating the artery, the operator uses only the handle of ie knife. If the inferior thyroideal vein, and some fibres of the hvpo- h lossal and first cervical nerve require division, this must be done with the • niie. The artery is to be isolated at its outer and back part with great are, so as not to injure the pleura. After this is done, Deschamps’ eedle should be introduced from the outside, between the pneumo-gastric ■i 6jVe,an<^. ^ie. pleura> carried out upon the other side between the artery ^ na the windpipe, and the ligature then drawn in. 114f' a Wh®n the entire trunk of the subclavian artery is obliterated, the oocl flows from the superior thyroideal and occipital arteries, into the i enor thyroideal, cervical, transverse scapular, and numerous anasto- ; W , sPread over the neck and shoulder, into the subscapular, . . f‘SW|PU rr,,an< Posterior-scapular arteries, from which it passses into id 5?uk °ft *16 .brachial artery. If the obliteration be at the lower the subclavian, or at the axillary artery, the passage of the blood ieal t more ready, as it is carried by the anastomoses of the cervi- ranchp^irir ce.rvical»,and transverse scapular arteries, with the rteZ. n >. y/1® subscapular and posterior-scapular into the brachial i ie ILL ,111 man,y cases’ after tying the axillary artery for a wound, i and nourishment of the arm are injured, depends not on the (a) Above cited, pi. ii. S