391 IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CANAL. 3*. [Barnes (a) quotes from Becker the case of a young peasant, -who on 29th May, ilv 535, whilst endeavouring to produce vomiting with the handle of a knife, let it slip sKom his fingers, and pass into his stomach. He was much frightened, but able to go ,V out his usual occupation. It was, however, determined to remove the knife by 4 oration, which was done on the 9th of July following, by a Surgeon and Lithotomist, it .med Shoval. “ A straight incision was made in the left hypochondrion, two fingers’- i eadth under the false ribs; first through the skin and cellular membrane, then i' rough the muscles and peritonaeum. The stomach subsided, and slipped from the . igers, which prevented it from being immediately seized; but it was at length caught Id of with a curved needle, and drawn out of the wound. A small incision was then tr ade into it upon the knife, which was then easily extracted. The stomach immediately | Uapsed. After the external wound had been properly cleansed, it was united with it f e sutures, and tepid balsam poured into the interstices. Tents impregnated with the ii.'ime balsam, and a cataplasm of bolar earth, the white of egg, and alum, were then ! plied.” (p. 324.) Two sutures were removed next day, on the following day two Bibre, but the fifth is not noticed. On the fourteenth day after the operation, the wound fed healed. Dr. Oliver (b) saw this knife at Konigsberg in 1685, and says it was : i and a half inches long. The patient completely recovered.] 1748. If the stomach contain nothing but the foreign body, it must be oderately filled before proceeding to the operation, with mucilaginous j; tid, for the purpose of bringing it near the wall of the belly (c). If ii-7 feeling, the position of the foreign body can be distinguished, the cut ! ould be made upon that part: but under other circumstances, upon the v ont wall of the stomach, an inch below the sword-like process of the ! 'east-bone, to an inch and a half above the navel, about three quarters an inch to the left of the white line, that the cut may be between r ie great and little curvature of the stomach. The wall of the belly is to 4! cut through with some careful strokes of the knife; and then the Jmach being laid bare, search is made for the foreign body, and a knife i .rust into the stomach at the proper place, and the wound enlarged with button-ended bistoury. The foreign body is then to be sought for with pair of forceps introduced upon the forefinger of the left hand, taken >ld of, and drawn out. The further treatment must be according to the les already laid down for wounds of the stomach {par. 541.) & Hevin also proposes piercing the front wall of the exposed stomach with a grooved -car, and to enlarge the wound upon it right or left. 1749. In enterotomy, the wall of the belly should be cut into where the reign body is distinguishable, though, if possible, on that part where the 'Mgastnc arteries can be avoided, search made with the finger for the sition of the foreign body, the intestine containing it drawn into the )und, and then sufficiently cut into for the removal of the foreign body. if treatment is the same as in wounds of the intestine {par 529 a the following.) 1 £Srthe,-inteft:ne naS been proposed for stricture and closure of the large ificial ’ unre '®vable ccBection of stools, for ileus and volvulus, in which cases, an (m(1L y be at the same tlme formed (par. 1616.) Although in such cases tliecause" aXf thfpef°fme,d yet on “count of the uncertainty ns, to a creit t seat of the disease, as well as on account of the symp- « practitioners arf rard^inSf * ** °perati°n’ iS S° 41 citcd- e> flEviVo1; p- 1408. 1700-01. 598. ’ Mem'de 1 Acad, (le Chirurg., vol. i. 598.'"""’ *“i,,era'ae ‘ Acad, de Chirurg., P,> D,issert- rtc mutuo Intesti- rus Dissertationum, vol. iii. See also, Leclekc D Histoire de la Medecine, p. i. 1. iv. ch. vi.—Hevin! Kecherches Ilistoriques sur la Gastrotomie, ou 1 ouverture du has-ventre dans les cas du volvulus ou de l'mtussuseeption d’un intestin; in Mem. e l Acad. de ( hirur^ , vol. iv.—Hebenstreit’s /usatze zu 13em.'s W. A. K., vol. ii. p. 359.— 1-ucMsius; in Hufeland's Journal, 1825, Feb., p. 42. * *