957 WITH INNER AND OUTER FLAPS. ST S; « - wards, the catlin is passed into the joint, at the anterior part, so as to divide the tendon of the biceps muscle, and afterwards is carried round the head of the bone to cut through the capsular ligament. The separation of the limb may be completed either by passing the knife over the head of the bone, and cutting downwards to the axilla or by placing the knife in the axilla, and dividing upwards to the joint; in either case the amputation should be finished by one stroke of the catlin.” (pp. 429, 30.)] 2806. The elder Hesselbach’s (a) method differs from those already described in forming the under flap first. The patient sits on a stool and the operator standing before him, with his left hand grasps the upper-arm beneath the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and rolling it outwards, so as well to distinguish the coracoid process from the little tubercle on the head of the upper-arm-bone,. thrusts a long, narrow, double-edged knife near the coracoid process, obliquely outwards up to the head of the bone so as at once to open the joint; the knife then carried, with its point close on the bone, down to the lower edge of the great pectoral muscle, cuts through its tendon and that of the subscapular muscle, the acromial tho- racic and anterior circumflex humeral arteries, fie then rolls the head of the bone inwards, thereby rendering the hind muscles tense, and draws it as much as possible from the blade-bone, whilst at the same time he presses the lower end of the upper-arm-bone against the chest. He now carries the knife between the head of the bone and the joint-surface of the blade-bone, through the joint, thrusts, whilst he drops the handle of the knife a little, through the hinder thin part of the deltoid muscle, below the acromion, and carrying the knife down close to the bone, forms the under ap, the vessels in which being at the same time compressed by an assist- n' Afitb ‘ead ° tie fnVS now Pressed downwards, by an assistant out of the opened capsular ligament, as the elbow is separated from the trunk, and the whole knife being placed above the head of the bone is ITipper flap" ^ the b°ne’t0 the end of the first flaP> and forms 2807. Desault (b) has given the following directions for formina cm nner and an outer flap. A double-edged straight amputating knife is thrust from before, into the joint, and after its point lias passed on the inner side of the upper-arm, through the arm-pit., drawn down close to the Zl! f finge.S’ breadth’ and thus a flaP * formed containing the essels which an assistant grasps, and compresses. The whole knife is^then SalV the ',ead 0f the uPPer*arm'k°ne) and forms a r r oi- u,e SW S3ZS “ f°r «" *• *'ere may £ shoulder, and two flaps a fore and hind nnn f ]he ‘lr.m. 18 drawn back towards the the same time compresses Z t ! and they are drawn up by an assistant, who at •V laid bare, (a) OHERTETTVn-n UaF (a) Oberteuffer, above cited. («) Haselbero, above cited. (<0 Above cited, vol. ii. p. 170. (d) Above cited, vol. iv. p. 407",