351 PARAPHIMOSIS. hi ture and inner skin of the prepuce. The object of the operation is not the division I tjie swelling and of the circular protuberance, but of the retracted aperture, and of the | ,uner f0id of the prepuce. On this presumption, I cannot agree to the unsatisfactory I; million which Walther has given of the operation for paraphimosis (a). Langenbeck y is also of the same opinion. 1669. If suppuration have already occurred at the circular constriction, iq the operation is superfluous, for the two folds of the prepuce are already ^divided, and there is merely the oedematous swelling, which drawing for- 5 ward the prepuce prevents. In this case, the prepuce must either be h. irought forward in the way already described, by squeezing and diminish- >i .ng the size of the swollen inner fold of the prepuce, or several little cuts m mist be made into it, so as to squeeze out the fluid. 1670. After the operation, merely cold water is to be applied, and the 1 oenis laid straight upon the belly. If, during the operation, the spongy I jody be wounded, and there be consequent bleeding, this must be stanched ,o with cold water, or with pressure when it can be employed. An oedema- 's :ous swelling of the prepuce frequently remains a long while after the rj; operation, to disperse which bags of aromatic herbs, rubbing in mercurial em ointment and camphor, and if these be inefficient, cutting into it, or nmoderate pressure by rolling the penis, should be employed. 1671. Constriction of the penis may also be caused by threads or thin > apes, and the like, which have been voluntarily put round it. The symp- i :oms, in general, become quickly very severe ; the place of constriction is pl speedily and completely covered by the swelling, and the band will quickly jjjjout into the urethra. A thin director must be attempted to be passed I leneath the band, which is then to be cut through with a narrow curved i: listoury, If the constriction be caused by a metal ring, it must be cut. hrough with a file, or with nippers, and removed in the most careful ' nanner. X.—OF THE NARROWING AND CLOSURE OF THE URETHRA. Daban, JObservations Chirurgicales sur les Maladies de l’Uretre, traitees suivant a nouvelle methode. Paris, 1748. ? Guerin, Dissert, sur la Maladies de 1’Uretre, avec des reflexions sur la methode (uont employee jusqu’a present les praticiens. Paris, 1780. t I. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease. London, 1810. Third Edi- Whately, Thomas, Observations on Mr. Home’s Treatment of Strictures in the an improved method, &c. London, 1801. 8vo. Ibid., An improved ^ netaod of Treating Strictures in the Urethra. London, 1804. 8vo. hopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies Urinaires. Nouv. Edit., par Felix Pascal. k* karijj 1821. • Sur la Nature et le Traitement de Retrecissemens de l’Uretre: in Four- R0Y> Medeeine Eclairee, vol. i. fiP,raAi£7> Maladies des Voies Urinaires ; in his CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. Paris °* i. ixlited by Bichat. abraud, Sur le Retrecissement Chronique de l’Uretre. Paris, 1805. L beman, Dissert, de curandis Urethrae Stricturis chronicis. Erlangen, 1811. " Irethra'nn^V-ERofI>rr?>raft'cal 0bservations on the Treatment of Strictures in the IIo, d m he London, 1805, 21. Third Edition. ^ndorj^ig'i’fj^011^’ ^>ract'ca' Observations on the Diseases of the UrinaryOrgans, &c. f an tiIE8’^‘P’LA Treatise on Strictures of the Urethra, containing an account improved method of treatment. London, 1819. 8vo. (a) See my Observations on Phimosis and Paraphimosis, above cited.