562 STONE IN THE BLADDER; Civiale’s bistoury, or with a narrow button-ended bistoury, to the extent of a Hi or two. 2043. In using the three-limbed perforating forceps of Civiale ardj Leroy, the instrument, closed and properly oiled, must be held with tl t fingers of the right hand, and the penis with those of the left, so direct*|r that it occupies a middle position betweeen erection and relaxation; coi < sequently almost at a right angle with the body, but forming towards tl'njj belly a somewhat obtuse angle. The same direction being given to tl »] instrument, it is introduced into the urethra, and with gentle tw irling ai g pushing alternately, carried on till it come to the under part of the pub. arch, without changing its direction, or that of the penis. I he instrr i ment and the penis are now gradually sunk down, at first parallel i ™ the horizon, and then brought so far below it as can be done without an, great difficulty, and then its point gently pushed forwards. If this car. not be done, the instrument must be again raised and sunk till the poir j get under the pubic arch ; the instrument is then carried in the sam direction through the prostatic part into the bladder, which is indicate I * by a peculiar feel, by the free movement of the instrument, by the escapmj of a few drops of urine, and by trrgency to make water, if there b <■ still some resistance before the instrument enter the bladder and it cannc t be sunk lower, the part of the instrument projecting from the urethri| must be gently raised, and the neck of the bladder thereby be some whs wl 2044. The stone is in general found without much difficulty, if nc | very small, and if the patient be quiet; and when found, the instnimen i must be drawn a little back, without causing the least shock, and opene - more or less, according to the size of the stone; and then, first the oute j canula, and afterwards the borer, are to be attached. At the sam- i moment that the instrument is pushed a little forwards, the opened1 hmbi.l of the forceps surround and grasp the stone, then the three-limberti canula is attached to it and fastened by the screw. By means of the scab! fixed on the three-limbed tube, and by pushing the borer towards th.J stone, it is ascertained that the latter is actually fixed, and its size is madqj out. The frequent difficulty of grasping the stone may be rendereri more easy by changing the patient’s position, or by pressure on the region* of the bladder. Tf i f 2045. If the stone be very small, it may be at once pulled out. »J be very brittle, it often breaks by the closing of the forceps. But wn H this does not happen, the instrument should be laid into the han the borer moved against the stone by means of the bow, on which a flu ;1 clear murmur is perceived. If the stone be in this way broken to pieces all the pieces rarely fall out of its limbs, and the measure on the ag«“f retracted canula shows whether the piece grasped will pass throug > urethra, or whether it must be still more broken. In the latter case, the canula has been fixed, with the screw, the borer must be ag»1 : employed. The instrument is then to be slowly withdrawn by m°un» getftly7from above downwards, and from right to left, observing the- Lection as on it, introduction. If in doing tin. there be I ...J obstacle, which is usually the case at the fossa nacicularts lie bor ^ be again applied to the stone, to render it still smaller The P1®*? h bladder generally escape with the injected water or with the unne ^ the enlarged urethra. If, however, the stone be firm, and the bo