163 PROGNOSIS. epileptic attack, accompanied with convulsive movements of the upper and lower limbs. If the examination be made whilst the patient stands I epilepsy follows, with the painful sensation produced by pressure. On examining the spinal column, it is easily perceived that a greater or less mobility exists in almost all the vertebra, but especially in those in which the pressure causes the symptoms mentioned. There still, however appears no permanent deformity; but if the patient be carefully suspended i b)'the head or by the arms, all appearance of deformity subsides, and it is clear that all are possible, but none yet exist which may become perma- nent. If the ailment continue to permit it, successive and alternate fixed curvatures occur, which quickly increase, but always retain their funda- mental character, to wit, a greater or less large arch, generally of pretty large extent, but regular, and free from all angles. These curvatures very ‘ readily increase. J 1352 In the curvatures of the spinal column from softening of the bones, the spine usually projects backwards where one or several bodies of j i vertebr(£ have s™k in, and a vertical flattening of the body of a vertebra takes place. The bending backwards is frequently connected with a slight disposition towards the side. At some distance from the original curva- .ure, large curves and almost regular arches are formed. In rickets there ire accompanying swe lings of the condyles of the tubular bones, which also end in various parts, disturbance of digestion, distended belly, and so on In steamolacy, the whole constitution is much affected for a long while before ^ he curvature takes place, severe, commonly wandering pains spreading vwer the breast and belly, frequently fixed in the spine, which’increase at u. erj movement, even on turning round in bed nrecede nnrl .iirvature; febrile symptoms frequently appear’; digestion and al'/The beCT.m0re and m0re 1 «. is always greater ■°en,P ,heJnaL„,I”'™”1’ ^ °” of “><= pain at e^ryTove’ WhiCh, dC‘eT“s ^eetta ‘»d the bones of thesis, are decidedly changrftattdrft'rm 5he ?ine',is generally ■id complication of the disease Manv uiatlon’ the cause, the degree, -come permanent, ^ &S ^et’ have •2alth and weakness of the muscles mav indplfP'116^ < lsturbance of the * vourable change of the constitution ch’ • ,.d’in rare cases subside, form ‘om accidental improvement of flip UUn^, ie Peri°d of development, or *i this self-assistance°of^atur<f te“of buf reliance ’•pcrienee commonly shows the case n'l.io ''gerous; for, in most cases, dient the slighter the decree of curv-it "0rse‘ The younger the ’re; 5« Persons advanced In years Td I'’ ? the easier * * of ^Se may be arrested by careful treatment s ’ ? pr°Sress of the the cause of the curvature be -i 4 ,?erfect Cure is effected. ■oynosls is always more unfavoub^e^as^ condition of the bones, the * muscles. If inclinations of the ,ntnp I •i"'61’6 m m'^proportions of 18 fore difficult than if there were mJT”1 dmrctions> exist, the ce that°°ntlnUed curvatures of the spine I y 006 Slngle inclillation. •ion m ^rendered impossible. the — impossible ft ;7tY ~‘TSC° uccm' in the verte- ln reference to this Joint that ^tftherefore an important obser 1 tnat the curvature remain without m 2