147 TREATMENT. i the womb often takes place in pregnancy, particularly during the first four months; but it also takes place under other circumstances, I have no doubt, and that much more , frequently than is commonly supposed. * * * The posterior displacement will be readily recognised by examination per anum. The finger will have to pass very much more backward than usual to get around the os tinea, which lies hard against the rectum, just above the sphincter ani, and is very perceptible to the feel of the Surgeon. In 4 passing the finger per vaginam, the neck of the womb is first encountered, occupying the jj situation of the os uteri. The os uteri is found lying against the rectum, its aspect being f backward and downward toward the point of the os coccyyis, will have to be carried : back in a curved form to reach it. The space between the os uteri and the posterior s ; termination of the vagina appears much larger than natural.” (pp. 221, 22.)] 1319. In treating antroversion of the pregnant womb, if the swelling be firm and immovable, blood-letting, clysters (of an infusion of belladonna, according to Hachmann) should be first employed, and the urine drawn I of! with the catheter. If the swelling be thereby rendered more movable, ar if it be movable from the beginning, and unconnected with any parti- cular symptoms, its replacement is to be attempted. The patient must be placed on her back, with the pelvis properly raised, the four fingers of the right hand being passed into the vagina are carried up to the deepest lyino- Dart of the swelling, and this is to be forced by a gradually increased pressure upwards, and in its slow yielding, somewhat backwards, whilst the left hand fixes the hypogastric region immediately above the pubic sym- o/iysis. In Hachmann’s case, very considerable, and for the patient, ixtremely painful force was employed, in order to lift the swelling out of he little pelvis. When this was effected, and the mouth of the womb •emoved from the rump-bone into the axis of the pelvis, the hand was vithdrawn, and the pain ceased as by enchantment. Continuance on the lack for some time is sufficient to prevent the recurrence of the displace- oierXwn tlmnO^ “entio?.a cas? ^ ^hich tbe foetus uteri inclined forward, w Hnri™ rtf *’/"d m.whlch '‘eduction seemed impracticable ; yet, nature lone, during the progress of gestation, accomplished the cure. mm?™1’ °/ Kfn“es> ''elites (a) two instances in which the natural position of the rf0red S1InP[-V !,y P°sition- The first case he was unabk to see but rected that the woman should be put on the side of the bed, with her head and hands osit on he’savs Kt the *ig? a“d 1<?gS °nIy resting 011 the bed- I" this mnt J’ 1’ , h Jitestines, being drawn towards the diaphragm, the pelvis is Sattnt b\ n \beinS n0 lon#er Pressed on- resumes its naturaf position After p t ent had been in this posture fifteen minutes, all pain ceased In thp seennrl men monSs^'^flS/Sad^ She ^ been Pregnant between three and a-half •emient Sv . , ch,ld- She was attacked with weight in the pelvis and rA£lmke Watefr- Nothing having been done, excepting that she eck of the womb u’a/fl n,- continuing next day, an examination was made, and the 'as in front mil h tv | . ,e i'tld’ ,alld towards the curve of the sacrum, while the fundus o? SSSftjshe wa"s placed ift’ thefWadder ™ beiag full, ’the cathe/erWas >r twenty minutes ti.’o f ?-ed m«tbe. P°sltl0° Just mentioned, upon the side of the bed ie urine^ceased.J 1 e feellDg°f weight m the pelvis diminished, and the desire to void ZT 1nthrrb in itS “"'."'Plated state, occurs iver (rrent diffi? u • • J" the former case> n produces violent pain, iffltoTJf SJir S t K mr and stoolsi in latter, the i lie walks the g.- unn,e and stools is less. The patient has, when rgencWo voidThc nr-1 * lf, a >iarfl body fell upon the bladder, causing es on her back Them’ "ii"0 ' >0<.,y.,a"ain falls back wlien the patient Tl,ence t,ie P°ss,bility of confounding this condition j JlnburB,‘ Monthly Journal^Memra^d^nc^ Jan- 1842 < and London and L 2