224 AFTER-BLEEDING. creased a little; and under this condition he left the house at the latter end of Deoemben But the most remarkable instance with which I am acquainted was a case of carotid aneurysm as large as a walnut, for which my friend Green tied the right carotid artery in April, 1831. The pulsation did not immediately cease on the application of the ligature, but it did in the course of the following hour; on the following day, how-' ever, it recurred feebly, and continued, though diminishing, till the seventeenth day, but it never ceased. The ligature came away on the thirty-fourth day, and on the forty! seventh the pulsation was again distinct, though feeble. In the course of the following fortnight the sac increased in size, and the pulsation increased correspondent!)’ with it. Green thought the aneurysm was situated at the bifurcation of the carotid, and that the pulsation was kept up by regurgitation from the internal carotid. It was a curious circumstance, in reference to this case, that the jugular vein of the same side, on the day . following the operation, began to pulsate, and continued to do so frequently though not constantly. The patient had also an aneurysm in the other carotid. Perhaps the prwsi paration in the College Museum of an aneurysm of the carotid artery just before its division, and nearly filled with clot except at the upper part, towards which the current-* j of blood has been directed, may correspond with Green’s case.—J. F. S.] 1426. Two circumstances are specially to be dreaded after the operation j for aneurysm, to wit, Bleeding and Mortification of the limb. 1427. Bleeding is the more to be dreaded; the larger the arterial trunk which has been tied, the nearer the ligature lies to a large collateral j branch, or if the tied artery be in a state of chronic inflammation, or . otherwise changed by disease. The bleeding generally occurs between \ the fourth and fifth days, but in many cases later. As soon as it takes j place, the artery must be compressed above and below the bleeding part, . and if the bleeding be not thereby stopped, the wound must be carefully examined, and the artery taken up afresh. After the operation by open- ing of the sac, the bleeding may take place from the upper or lower end of the artery, or from collateral branches opening into the sac. [In Hunter’s first case (a), “ on the ninth day after the operation there was a eon siderable discharge of blood from the part where the ligatures passed out,” (p. 150,j , but it was stopped by pressure with a tourniquet, and did not recur. In his seconc j case, in which the wouud was made to unite by granulation instead of quick union “ on the nineteenth day there was an ha;morrhage from behind the muscle, the swelling of which rendered it nearly as difficult to come at the vessel as if the parts had healet by the first intention; the bleeding was stopped by applying pressure, after having i lost about 10 or 12 ounces. On the twentieth there was a slight bleeding which wa- a readily stopped, yet five hours’afterwards the femoral artery gave way, and he lostabou- one pound of blood before the tourniquet was applied. The artery was laid bare am * tied a little higher up, the patient being very weak and low; in this state he con j tinued till the twenty-third day without bleeding, when it bled again from a smal • vessel. On the twenty-sixth a considerable haemorrhage having taken place, he be i came faint, then delirious, had vomiting with hiccough, and died the same day. | (pp. 159, 60.) No bleeding occurred in Hunter’s other three cases. One of the most interesting and anxious cases of after-bleeding happened under nr £ colleague Green’s care in 1825, in a case of axillary aneurysm, for which he net s the subclavian artery external to the scalene muscles, ou the 2nd of August of that ■ year. Nothing peculiar occurred at the operation. He suffered a good deal nw,| constitutional excitement, which, however, subsided. On the afternoon of the j there was a sudden bleeding in a jet of five or six inches, and he lost very quickl) u it was believed, more than a pint of blood; it ceased, however, by firm pressure wit*J a wadding of tow kept up for 10 or 15 minutes, after which all the dressings were n ,s moved and linen dipped in cold water, and replaced every 10 minutes, was laid ove j the wound. On the following day pulsation in the wouud was observed, but it entirely ceased two days after, and on the 26th the wound was healed, all bat middle. The ligature came away on the 29th, that is, 27 days after the operatioi . Oct. 31. A small sinus still continues open, from which there has been a slight I charge. About midnight, while he slept, a gush of blood occurred from the won which was readily stopped by pressure. It was attended with very great pain W I (a) Trans. Med. and Chir., vol. i. above quoted.