RICHARD WISEMAN’S DESCRIPTION OF SPINA VENTOSA. 679 the whole circumference of the bone. The pain is of varying severity, and often increases to a very considerable degree as the swelling increases. The soft parts surrounding the bone swell up, the skin becomes painful, red, thins at the most elevated parts, bursts and discharges an ichorous fluid. The edges of the ulcerated aperture thin and drop inwards, whilst the rest of the swelling retains its size and consistence. A probe passed through this opening can with ease be carried deeply in every direction, penetrating the cartilaginous substance, and but little arrested by the fra- gile pieces of bone. From the discharge of the juices, and the absorption of the ichorous fluid hectic symptoms arise at an earlier or later period ; fungous excrescences spring out of the apertures, are exceedingly sensi- ,■ tive, bleed easily, and increase the exceedingly severe pain. [Our celebrated countryman, Richard Wiseman, has given (a) a very excellent de- i ’ scnption of Spina ventosa, of which he says:—“ It hath been taken notice of by very few »; authors, and I myself succeeded happily in the curing those in the lesser Bones, many i ; years before I knew what name to call the Disease. And in truth I do not now greatly f * a iprove of the name, but shall acquiesce in it and represent it to you, as I have fre- ts quently seen it in my Practice in the King’s-Evill, it being a certain species of that Dis- ease, and of no other that I ever saw. It taketh it’s beginning from a thin acid serum in sol the medullary juice, which corroding the Fibres maketh a solution of continuity there, and at length corrupteth the interior part of the Bone, and at last (if not prevented) cor- 1 rodes the Shell, and passeth it’s subtill Humour through some porosity it had made. This Disease of the interior part, by degrees usually so affecteth the externall Shell of the Bone, as to raise it to a preternatural! Tumour, which, at the same time, overstretch- ing the Periosteum causeth an uneasiness ; and this Pain if it grow so acute as to produce Inflammation, an Abscess consequently followeth. If the Bone be spungy and soft, it is wonderful 1 to see how quickly the Fibres of it will be mollified by the influence of the ■s serum of the Blood, and made apt for a sudden Distension, as if the part were rather >musculare than Bone. So in childrens Fingers, I have seen a Bone swelled in a night, U and the like Tumour raised in the spongy Bones of elder persons in few days, without tvinuch difficulty to yield again to exsiccant Remedies. Yet it sometimes happeneth, that Wthejnterior part of the Bone is totally corrupted without any externall Tumefaction or Pains, till the acid Humour maketh its way through the cortex, and eroding the Perios- teum. causeth a solution of continuity there; which by access of pain swelleth and in- Tlamptn t no ovfnvnnll nrwl T\nnrliiAr>4Vi 1 X’ J rm • .i ipameth the externall Parts, and produceth Maturation in few days. Those in the pro- tuberant Bones do also frequently raise Abcesses after the same manner, and sometimes whilst the exteriour Parts suffer under another Ulcer different from this. Somewhat of rvitt, • tvA 7 , ~ , uiuc.cmuum uns. oumewnai or < hr n ■ renCeS 1 have showed y°u in the preceding lines, others may be taken from . e Quality of the serum. In some there is a sudden Tumour raised in a night, in others b»it swelleth gradually, and never corrupteth externally. In others the Humour pierceth jji#through the cortex, and raiseth suddenly an Abseess. And these Differences may be said : to arise somewhat from the Place or Bone they affect: for, accordingly as the mteriour o part of it is softer or harder, or the externall cortex is solid or porous, so it suffers Soul- s' .“ sooner or later. Those of the cranium for the most part pass their way through the USl0Ur l“m]na and affect the dura mater, *c., producing great Pains, Convulsions, Epilepsies, and they die before the Disease is discovered. In the great Bones KllvH-Kneea AnuU1’ Elbo'vs’. &c> the3’ Pass their Matter slowly, and are more gene- In th<TnT^.wlth„AP^teniat'0.,,s. e.xternally arising from the protuberance of them. ? iin inc (J8 tali or Heelbone. which is snnmrv within onri r.,11 n ,1 ■Atho \ T' V spina ventosa I have already delivered you |a Alrlltyrl‘n ian9"\7.,is |n tbe Bone. The most visible Signs of itYre HorPp£ tk f B°"eS WIt l0Ut d!scolounng of the Skin, and often without Tumour , tthem thev P°femat,,0nS Proc“d,"6 fr0m the SPina ventosa do most certainly shew lluSn mL n ?;ayS bet^een *he Membranes and Tendons, and somewhat of Fluc- j .apon On^nfn / her,' before the externall Skin be considerably inflamed: also if CSl y0!’ m:Vke se"ch w'th a Probe, you will find it penetrate deep into the i.tnallv' and if th . n 'X if *i " ntc ’ 'fhereas the other Abscesses do always begin exter- y’ lc P°ne he bare, yet is it only superficially carious or stained by the (c) Severall Cliirtirgical Treatises. London, IG7(i. fol.