COVERINGS OP FEMORAL RUPTURE. 70 inguinal rupture is easy, because the latter closely follows the direction of f the spermatic cord ; but in women it is more difficult, because the cord . does not exist, and the abdominal is nearer the femoral ring (2). Femoral rupture is easily distinguished from a bubo, and from a collection of pus; 3 the diagnosis is, however, more difficult when the rupture is accompanied i with a swelling of the glands (3). [(1) Femoral rupture commonly after descending a little down and protruding the •■ slieath inwards, turns upwards upon Pour art’s ligament, so that the bottom of the J sac is above the mouth. Astley Cooper, however, states that “it sometimes happens^ that instead of crossing the thigh in the direction of the crural arch, it extends down-aji wards along the edge of the crural vein and the vena saphana major, (p. 1.) Then] tumour does not quit the sheath for the crural vessels. The appearance of this diseasei**] that of a general swelling of the fascia on the inner side of the femoral vein, but without its producing any circumscribed tumour. The part swells whenever the patient coughri j or uses any considerable exertion, but the swelling diminishes though itdoes not entirely i subside, when he stands at rest. * * * I believe it to be not an unfrequent variertal as I have met with it three times in the dead body, and it existed on both sides in eacL-ll * * * It is continued downwards within the sheath, passing anteriorly to the femoral , vein, and descends as far below the crural arch as the sheath will allow, the distance I being in general from two to three inches.” (p. 25.) Callaway tells me one such case- > occurred under his care, and was at first supposed to be varix of the femoral vein, its true nature was, however, discovered, and a truss was applied with advantage. (2) In ordinary cases I have never seen any difficulty of distinguishing femoral fron '1 inguinal rupture in women ; and cannot conceive it possible, except whilst the latter b-J in the inguinal canal, or on the point of passing through the external abdominal ring- i but even then it is not difficult to determine, as the swelling of femoral rupture can be i pushed down into the thigh, and Poupart’s ligament either thereby exposed or the fingers l passed between the rupture and it, which cannot be done by pressing down inguinik i rupture, as thereby Poupart’s ligament is more hidden. (3) Besides those here mentioned, there are other swellings in the upper part of the < thigh or groin liable to be mistaken for femoral rupture. Astley Cooper mentions . an enlargement of the crural vein, which dilated when the patient coughed, (in const- t qucnce of the return of blood into the belly, made by the pressure of the bowels upon tin < iliac veins,) disappeared in the recumbent, and reappeared in the erect posture. * * f1 It was easy to detect the nature of the case, for although it disappeared in the recumtawl posture, it was immediately reproduced, although he continued in that posture, by pressin) » on the vein above the crural arch, and retarding the return of blood.” (p. 4.) Tumonmj also, either fatty or encysted, may occupy the seat of the rupture, and be mistaken forit ! Of the latter there is an example in St. Thomas’s Museum.—J. F. S.] 1217. The coverings of femoral rupture are, Jirst the external skin second, cellular tissue and glands; the layer of the former is often ver thick and loaded with fat; third, the superficial layer of the fascia lata (1) and fourth, the hernial sac, the protruded part of the peritoneum, "'hid , is covered on its surface with a layer of loose cellular tissue. These coverings are not the same in all cases; a rupture of increasiiif j size may protrude through the aperture by which the vena saphena >f»| entered, so that it is then for the most part covered only with skin ai*| subjacent cellular tissue. Most commonly a portion of the ileum*J included in femoral rupture, more rarely the omentum, and extremal seldom a portion of the bladder. [(1) This is erroneous ; the fascia lata never covers femoral rupture, which passed-1 already mentioned, through the oval opening, and the third covering is the protru . sheath of the femoral vessels, as I have already described. . JjXfl I recollect seeing Green operate on a case in which, when the so-called fascia ' was exposed, it had a nodulated form, and gave some idea of intestine covered 1 with its peritoneal sac; but on carefully cutting through, a mass of soft fat was I beneath it, under which was the sac. . 1 In another case under my own care, having cut through the/aseta propria, as ^ I thought I had reached the peritoneal sac, and dividing it, as mall quantity ot nuw rei