424 TREATMENT OF RETENTION OF URINE be resisted in its common course, and you must depress the handle a good deal, with : view of tilting its point over the enlarged gland ; thus the end of the instrument wil _ a > 1 • 1 1 • J 1. . . 1- t -A n ..1. ^w. rl'R AP/, Ik ♦ 1 , View U1 Lllllllg 1L» [JUllib uvu i/tiv/ “ ? "* he rising perpendicularly, as it jvere, behind the pubes. These, then, are the incaus yc are to employ to obtain a correct diagnosis.” (pp. 242, 43.) r J . r. ... ^ pmctitn ow. „„i. ire io empiuy ire- , “ The symptoms of retention of urine from enlargement of the prostate, are not ver different from those which occur where the retention is the consequence of stricture, bu the termination is different. I never saw,” says Brodie, “ a case in which, under the* circumstances, the bladder had given way, as sometimes happens, where there is a reten tion from stricture; but I am informed that such a ca6e has occurred, and that th bladder ruptured at its fundus is preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s H<e pital.” (p. 155.)] 1811. The prognosis in this disease is always unfavourable. Onl; in the beginning is there hope of being able to disperse the hardening in advanced cases, the disease may sometimes be diminished, and tin patient’s condition may be rendered tolerable by the inlying of th. catheter. At the first a corresponding antiphlogistic treatment must h employed ; afterwards issues and blisters to the perinaum, rubbing ii volatile liniments with camphor, mercurial ointment, iodine salve, suppo sitories of cicuta and opium', internally, cicuta, meicury, decoctioi of daphne mezereon, uva ursi, and the like, but especially hydiochlorat. of ammonia in increasing doses (a). If the hardening have a definit. cause, the curative means must be directed to it. In introducing tn catheter, the points already mentioned (par. 1807) must be considered If an elastic catheter be left in, it does not retain its pioper cuive afte the removal of the stilette, and the urine escapes; it is better, therefore to use those elastic catheters, which have a permanent curve. [As to the treatment of enlarged prostate, Astley Cooper says “ Very little can b effected here by medicine; it is a disease over which medicines have but very Iittl influence. You may, however, give the oxymuriate of mercury in very small quan tities, for I believe I have seen it, beneficial. But this is the treatment only for tL enlargement of the gland. * * * When no urine whatever can be passed, and whei there is great pain at the neck of the bladder,” he recommends to “ take blood from tb arm, apply leeches to the perinceum, administer purgatives, and put the patient in t warm bath. If these means should succeed in procuring relief, the best medicine ttal can afterwards be given for the purpose of preventing a return of the retention, and a the same time of lessening the inconvenience which sometimes attends the complaint, i composed of fifteen drops of the liquor potassce, five drops of balscopaib., and an ounce mi a half of mist, camph. If you give fifteen or twenty drops of the balsam it then produce a stimulating effect, and does harm ; administer it in the quantity just mentioned, in cot junction with the other medicines, to which may be added two drams of muc. gum. oca * * * Other medicines, as the carbonates of soda and magnesia, the liquor potass., wnt opium, are occasionally given, but as the latter produces costiveness it is improp. The first medicine will be found the best; it will afford considerable relief, which is al that you can expect, for you must not dream of making a cure. (pp. -43, 4., Lawrence says “ In the case of this chronic enlargement of the prostate, *e not much power of relieving the patient by producing any great reduction of t e . part. * * * By attention, however, to diet, careful attention to the state of the . and bowels, by a course of mild alterative and aperient medicines, we can keep patient perhaps in a tolerably healthy state. Attempts have been made sonie imef^ reduce this enlargement by seton or issue on the penneeum or upper part of the tin n, it is an inconvenient course of proceeding, and one to which patients are no t0 “’when from any cause the vessels of the prostate are more than usually turgid wid blood,” says Brodie, “ the quantity may be diminished, and thus a red,I^t'”V. to a certain extent, may be effected. It is with this view that we r<*°™FV all Pper- blood-letting, the exhibition of gentle purgatives, a moderate dieted, a *^ol feet rest in the horizontal posture. But we are not acquainted with an} treatment which is capable of restoring the gland to its original condition (P- ^ (n't Fisohkb; in Rust’s Magnzin, vol. xi. See also Home, Gland , i. , im, STiZdot p. 35* 1818. 8yo.