TREATMENT. 301 , rture of the anus, swell considerably, are protuberant, and very . nful. The pain often spreads over the whole belly, and the patient Is extremely painful tenesmus; the piles even become gangrenous. If y go on to suppuration, in which case syphilitic causes are mostly in ,Jy, suppuration may easily spread into the loose cellular tissue of the tuni, producing great destruction and fistula. Not unfrequently do ;e piles become converted into a hard fleshy mass, and even into cancer. Bushe has detailed an awful account of the symptoms of piles, most of which, how- ■, result from the constitutional excitement they produce when inflamed, and are i occasionally very severe. The local symptoms are well described by him :—“A feel- of weight in the loins, hips, and groins ; dull throbbing pain in the rectum, attended 1 a sense of increasing heat, tenesmus, mucous discharge, and occasional darting sen- ms, resembling those of electricity; itching of the anus, and finally painful, dif- It, and frequent micturition.”—(p. 140.) Frequently the loss of even a small quantity of blood,” observes Bushe, “ re- ?s the feeling of weight and tension in the perinceum, rectum, and lower part of the ;, as well as any other disagreeable symptoms which may have existed. The amount uemorrhage, however, is not always in proportion to the severity of the symptoms )ting the loaded state of the hmmorrhoidal vessels—the quantity being sometimes f great, though not preceded by well-marked premonitory signs ; while, in other s, the discharge of blood is trifling, notwithstanding the fluxionary movement may 2 been well marked. Generally it ceases after a few days; yet not unfrequently it inues for months. In some instances it occurs but once in life ; again, it may re- in the course of a few weeks, months, or even years. Occasionally it assumes a adical character, returning with the season or the month. The amount of blood varies; a drachm, an ounce, or even a pint may be discharged at a time, though it t be confessed, that the admixture of other fluids is apt to impose, upon the mex- enced, the belief that the loss of blood is much greater than it reallv is” 146, 147.)] J ' 545. The causes of heemorrhoids, besides predisposition, which is •ibed, to walking upright, to the difficult flow of the blood into the tal system, which is unprovided with valves, to hereditary habit, to the flow of blood into the abdominal organs in advanced old ao-e* stoppages and costiveness of the intestines, much sitting, pressure°of pregnant womb, local irritation of the rectum from hard stools and itinual riding, or of the neighbouring parts ; for instance, of the bladder j urinary stone, and so on. . 546. The treatment of haemorrhoids is various, according to the % ^"ftances in which they are found. If they be inflamed, cooliim " ledies must be employed, cream of tartar with sulphur, leeches to the I mourn, cold applications; and if these cannot be borne, mild ointment b 1 soothing fomentations. If the inflammation result from straugula- II of the piles, their return must be attempted with the finger oiled'’ the lent, icing placed with his rump raised high, and all pressure removed ; it this be not easily effected, to empty them with a simple lancet cut. toey suppurate, the abscess must be soon opened to prevent burrowin°- of : pus, and if the ulceration depend on a syphilitic affection, the proper mrirb ^?Tral r?TdieS must be employed. If the bleeding from the orrhoKlal vessds be very severe, so that the patient is much weakened ttru««te-e,!t auSered’ reSt and the horizontal position, best on a hard LS5 “ ? be recommended ; internally, milfoil or other astringent wine ’ n e.rna ty’ cold hip-baths, cold water with vinegar or spirits ■ ne, cold decoctions of astringent vegetables, or solution of alum and th S TrP!0yed 518 ln'lections int0 the rectum, or as fomentations i blperlin i 1 IUSe means be not of use, and the danger pressing, ng must be stopped by plugging in the way described {par. 934.)