[ 305 ] THIRD DIVISION. . SEASES DEPENDENT ON UNNATURAL COHERENCE. First Section.—ON UNNATURAL COHERENCE IN GENERAL. . 550. The unnatural coherence of organic parts consists either in the ton of neighbouring parts, which naturally are distinct; or in the forma- . of bad scars which diminish or destroy the movements of parts, by pre- ting their extensibility ; or in a narrowing or closing of their outlets, by ch their functions are considerably disturbed or rendered quite impossi- They are specially either consequences of previous inflammation, or of the original formation and congenital. 551. In order that parts, which in their natural state are distinct, r uld unite together, a proper degree of inflammation, destruction of the | n, and long continued close contact are required. The union is either , nediate, by means of a scarcely perceptible, interposed layer of plastic lph, into which the vessels shoot; or it is fleshy, and depending on the ■. elopment of granulations, and the formation of an intermediate sub- ■ nee, oftentimes having perfect resemblance to the parts it connects; the connecting interposed matter is fibrous, membranous, in which e it would seem that there had been previously a more intimate con- i’ cion, which, in consequence of the movements of the connected organs, 1 formed these membranous lengthenings. For example, in the hand- le adhesions between the peritonceum and the surface of the intestines, ween the pulmonary and costal pleura. All organs are, under the >nDve-mentioned conditions, capable of union; the serous structures and I lovial membranes are most prone to it, the mucous membranes least so, 1 only when their surface is destroyed, and the underlying cellular i oue laid bare. 1552. When in a wound accompanied with loss of substance, especially a severe burn, the treatment has not been conducted with due care, d the parts kept in proper position, the edges of the skin either greatly ntract towards the centre, and a tough cord-like scar often connected i th the underlying parts, or a superficial, prominent, knotty, misshapen nr is produced. In consequence of this the position and movements of Part are in various ways damaged or completely destroyed, or great formity is produced. It must not however be forgotten, that in long ntinued unnatural position of a part, consequent on a scar formed in one ! these ways, secondary contraction of the muscles, and alterations in *e. Uints may be produced, by which the movements are still further re- icted ; and this condition may even become incurable. ' 'J-°u ^ie outlets are peculiarly constituted. They are either > 'mished with a true muscular apparatus, or at least are endowed with a . ecia! contractility, upon which their alternate expansion and contrac- >n tlenfinrl Their inner surface is always overspread with mucous x depend. vOL. II.