OPERATION FOR 34 Examination.—After raising the tendon of the external oblique muscle from the inguinal canal, the edge of the internal oblique was seen uplifted by a small dark- ' coloured tumour about the size of a hazel nut, which was evidently a hernial sac and contained dark-coloured fluid. The internal oblique and the transverse muscles were then carefully divided up to the internal ring, to which the sac was easily traced, and the" latter having been carefully opened about its middle, about a drachm of serum escaped. The sac was cut up to the internal ring, through which a very small knuckle of dark- coloured but shining intestine protruded. The belly was next opened; it contained no fluid, and little apppearance of inflammation, except a thin film of adhesive matter slightly gluing together the intestines in the right iliac pit. The abdominal muscles having been completely turned down, about eight inches of very dark-coloured yellowish green intestines were exposed, distended immediately above the portion of gut in the mouth of the sac, with thin faeculent matter like his last stool; an inch of the bowel below the sac’s mouth was of the same dark colour, and suddenly terminated by a distinct mark of strangulation, upon which, beneath the peritoneum, fibrin had been poured out. Below this point the gut was healthy but contracted. The portion of intestine in the sac was about two-thirds of its tube, the part nearest the mesentery, being quite above the internal ring. In examining further, this protruded piece of gut dropped out, and there was not found upon it the slightest mark or appearance of strangulation. From this examination, I presume, that the strangulated bowel had been returned by the medical man who last saw him; that the strangulation had been sufficiently long to destroy the vitality of the intestine, which had therefore never recovered itself; that the portion of intestine found in the mouth of the sac, had been forced in by the vomiting but that it had never been strangulated nor incarcerated, nor had probably been there constantly, through the course of the disease, though it might have been occasionally, by the effort of vomiting; and that the costiveness depended not on the tube of the bowel being impervious, but on its death having destroyed its functions, and that the stools passed were merely forced by their quantity through the dead intestine.—J. F. S.] 1167. The decision as to the proper time for the operation, especially depends on the kind of strangulation, on its severity and duration, on the constitution of the patient, and on the effects which the previous remedies had produced (1). In inflammatory strangulation, in small ruptures, which arise suddenly from external violence, or in those where the strangulation is at the mouth of the sac, {par. 1135,) in young vigorous persons, the operation must not be delayed; if by the preceding treatment reduction have not been effected, or if the painfulness of the rupture will permit no further attempt at reduction. It is often necessary within the first eight or twelve hours. In such cases can the advice of Kern and "YVatt- mann be alone applicable, not uselessly to waste time by attempting relief with external and internal remedies, but immediately to employ the only helpful remedy ; to wit, cutting into the rupture. In spasmodic and chronic strangulation, the operation may be delayed ; very frequently repeated attempts at reduction should, however, be avoided, and after the. most powerful remedies have been employed, it is better to resort earlier to the operation, than by further delaying it to put the patient’s life in greater' danger. But the operation is in these cases specially indicated, if an inflammatory condition be superadded, especially in old persons. In general, the longer the operation is delayed, the more unsatisfactory is* the prognosis, as the danger is less from the operation itself, if properly' conducted, than from the degree of inflammation and the circumstances? thereon depending. f(T) The invariable rule in all cases of rupture in which symptoms of strangulation* exist be they slight or severe, if the taxis, after warm bath and bleeding have been unsuccessful, is without loss of time to proceed to the operation, as the most safe tor patient. For the damaged state of the intestine is frequently not indicated by conre-< sponding severity of symptoms, as is well known to every one who has often operate* t