725 tl) Above cited, p. 51. AND SCIRRHUS. after having previously passed into a scirrhous state. Cancer is the especial peculiarity of advanced age, and most commonly occurs at the critical periods of life, when the capability of production declines. It may other- wise be primarily developed from any scirrhus, or from any ulcer, if its bottom have passed into a scirrhous condition. A resemblance between medullary fungus and cancer can alone be drawn from the following circumstances.: in both diseases, when ulceration has taken place a thin filthy-smelling ichor is secreted; in cancer there are often fungous growths ; both are m a high degree destructive, spread in all directions, are frequently accompanied with bleeding, commonly appear in different organs in the same individual, at the same time and rarely heal. But in medullary fungus it is always characteristic that it spread only by growth, and compress the parts, but not as cancer, which, by its extension, draws the parts into the same degeneration. I cannot therefore, in this respect, agree with John iIuller (a), when he states that medullary fungus with tailed corpuscles can be distinguished from the benignant corresponding sarcoma, for this only admits the distinction of the tissue formation in the affected organs or their neighbourhood di^St dSeS2^h0fhke m°1 Fm!iCh W,'iterS’ aPPlies the term Carcinoma to a Jegenerahon from scirrhus and cancer, points out four different kinds ; first i encePJ‘aloide ou cerebriforme; second, Carcinome melane ; third, Carcinoma I Sf;h chd iti C'arclno™e Nematode. If the description be compared with the ™ -7 e, glv.en from examination of medullary furious in its several f ^?es’ nt ?annot be otherwise considered than that these kinds of carcinoma are merelv I to^eeusSjroSdefofer10Pm!nt °! medullary fungus; nor to think that it is contraiy I than the nnclo ^ r f• LXPref10n; t0 P01nt out with carcinoma another state of disease7 >. than the passage of scirrhus by ulceration into open cancer. uisease, l wiSEmedullnl^dS that A.bernethy’s sarcoma tuberculatum probably agrees entirely I ?mTfary/T'i As;thls 0P'nion is not supported by any positive ground! nC°T• tuber^tum’ so I think I can the less ag/ee with itf as the m/unaL Sw'Ch S#t;m W,'th that dlse£U!e do not accord with those given to medullary ii: merationof according to Abernethy (rf), consists of an aggl0! mi cellular cnhct undish tumours of different size and colour, connected together bv T\eir Slz.e varies from that of a pea to that of a horseWand . the disease onfv ,?n th S ,br0W,nl.s.h ™ d> and m. mauy yellowish. Abernethy had seen ^■iant ]ymPhatic glands of the neck. It runs on to ulceration nnlio- ’atm doefnoTin thns dea*- From this description sarcoma tubercu- |§ be taken for » r gree w,th medullary/an^iw, and it seems rather that it must d incurable soreT degeneratl0n> at least ^ passed into ulceraTon <fo s known f^0!0^ of. medullary fungus, nothing decisive if -emoto o' 1 ?ases the dlsease is developed without any perceptible ■ „ !’■ and “ 18 usuaI|y f0lmJ confined one spot! but pSrt EiuS‘‘T .f ,era’?r«ans- aach circumstances thefS «c-Xw 1,1 fhlblts disease , the ski,, is of a ureenLl,! proufcmeC,°verSd. " II1! ,a clammy sweat, there is constant htenemTaSeeZfan bfoe cli , T8’ “d the Iike' If decided >■ ’e mistaken which is h /' V 8tl dime is a peculiar diathesis nut !o il Sometimes an external m i .^lstm^llshed as the diathesis fungosa. * rid although it be nuickTy dov^ 1,aflu®nceuis the. ca»se of this disease, I influence unon tho or . J cvej°Ve(^ under these circumstances, yet is its Pffecfions Tcrofiik Z T Ie8B‘ Ifc is Suite undecided whit general origin of this disease^ ISm’ ^°Ut’ ancl the like, contribute to ' n every o^n.0 Its may be developed - essels and veo-'etativo no m t l6 Ce /u ar tissue> in which the capillary ft essels are numerous rves are spread. In the cellular tissue, where the mf numerous, new vessels are formed, the tissue itself loosens m («) Above cited, p. 27. V1) Above cited. . Above cited, p. 207.