FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CANAL. 389 is rious suggestions were made, and among others gastrotomy, but the patient would not isent toTt. He was able to walk about a little during the day, and could sleep 0 night on his back, but not on either side. He was frequently squeamish and sick at mach, and sometimes felt a severe twisting pain in that organ. He kept quiet 1 • 28th December, when he left on his way to London, but died at Middlewicli on the j h January following. From the account it is very evident that he never laboured Oxlcr any urgent symptoms, and seems to have been worn out rather by terror and ' ciety. “On opening the belly,” Hadfield says, “my first attention being of course d fee ted to the stomach, I found the knife beginning to protrude through a gangrenous e 'iiing about two inches and a half from the beginning of the duodenum, on which part V knife had lain. After opening the stomach, I found that the point of the knife rested that part of the greater curvature, almost exactly opposite to the cardia, and r | likewise very nearly perforated the coats. * * * The handle of the knife was ri- npletely dissolved, the rivets had disappeared, and a considerable portion (at least : | --third) of the blade also. What was left appeared exceedingly rusty and black.” Ih is knife is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. In the same collection I s - some knives voided by a soldier in St. George’s Hospital.] . 1744. Bulky bodies are most commonly retained in the stomach and i the ileo-colic valve. They may remain in the stomach a considerable nie without causing symptoms, which, however, they easily produce the intestinal canal, even if they be not fixed. The symptoms Specially depend on the stoppage of the alimentary canal, or on the inflammation and injury which the foreign body produces by its peculiar in. In the first case symptoms of ileus arise; in the second, more less severe enteritis. Oxidizable metals for example: copper coins eoduce no peculiar symptoms, as their oxidation, whilst resting in the I mentary canal, is exceedingly slow and not to that extent, which rduces dangerous effects (a) ; indeed, in general, they are not long t -ough retained. r1 In the College Museum there is a very interesting preparation from a woman who ; d long suffered under symptoms of gall stones, and at last died exhausted. On ; immation, the gall-bladder was found thickened, contracted, and both it and the liver \ imately adherent to the duodenum and adjacent organs. Between the gall-bladder \ a duodenum was a large ulcerated ragged opening of communication, through which arge gall stone had passed, and, getting into the ileum, had blocked it up. Above s part the gut was distended with air and biliary fluid. In the Museum at St. Tho- i t 5 s there is a portion of small intestine from a child, which is in two or three parts ! nP;fte y filled with lumps of hardened stool, in appearance resembling album Grcc- t n, the result of quantities of carbonate of magnesia, which becoming entangled with mucus of the bowel, had formed complete plugs of an inch or more in length. ’ i J? vTlge Musemn also possesses an example of cherry-stones lodged in the eacnrn, rWvfii • n swal,ow.e<1 l»y a boy twelve years of age, at least sixteen months before y. aeatn, during which time he continually suffered from symptoms of chronic enteritis. i tn£CS^AFF ^ glV6S an account of a madman who swallowed a silver table-spoon in ,' ,r’ ’827' . Soon after his health gradually declined. Although he lived abstemi- , uni,;! ,ge<-StlVe or£ans were disordered; he suffered from dyspepsia, and frequently it all ti? °* an aCUte pain 1,1 ,he rcS,on °f the cacum ; and he persisted in declaring be, ‘ “SF syniPtoms were occasioned by the spoon he had swallowed. His account was anv W esPec,a"y cautious examination of the belly was made without detection ■ i?i 7* He. c°ntlnued t0 suffer from the effects of pain in the situation of sed wUi a- CT"’ and frequently said he felt the motion of the spoon. He was mptomsofH?rrhOC?’,-an(1 the evacuations were often mixed with blood and pus. rerlimL umeased hver came on, and were followed by ascites and oedema of the water and * n these Clrcumstances Langstaff tapped him, drew off a bucketful •efullv erlil „.?as ‘greatly emaciated, I was induced,” says Langstaff, “to ected^a solid snhstn!' ’u1 Could the sP00n, when, to my astonishment, I ■ ^ ^ u sta,1ce in the situation of the cacum, which induced me to believe surl’Em^n^«onnprnon!’nP<'vo” n* f* .GO Catalogue of the Preparations, &c., con- 5t,tut,n§ ,hu Anil,omi™1 3 •••■u.uuuv.iu in uacuui in ur.utu Lanostaff. London, 1842. Svo. p. 228-32.