2~° ANEURYSMAL VARIX. P at the wrist than it was in the natural state, which will be found out by comparing the • i size and the pulse of the artery in both arms at these different places,” (p. 392) • the l reasons for which he thus gives:—“Why is the pulse and the wrist so much weaker in ■ the diseased arm than in the other ? Surely, the reason is obvious and clear. If the blood can easily escape from the trunk of the artery directly into the trunk of the vein, ' it is natural to think that it will be driven along the extreme branches with less force't J ■ and in less quantity. Whence is it that the artery is enlarged all the way down th»2 arm ? I am of opinion, that it is somehow the consequence of the blood passing so • • readily from the artery into the vein, and that it will always so happen in such cases. 11 That it is not owing to any particular weakness in the coats of the artery, like that in a 1 true aneurysm, naturally and constantly tending to rupture, but it has rather such an t extension as happens to all arteries in growing bodies, and to the arteries of parti- •- cular parts, when the parts themselves increase in their bulk, and, at the same time • retain a vascular structure. * * * I presume that the derivation of blood to the am by ». the wound of the artery has been the cause of the dilatation of that vessel; and that in die living body an artery will as certainly become larger, when the resistance to the blood ■ is taken off, as it will become smaller when it is compressed, or, as it will shrink and : become a solid cord when the blood is not allowed to pass through it at all. * * * Jn . order to conceive how or why the trunk of the artery will become larger, in consequence. , of an immediate and free communication with the trunk of the vein, let us take another view of it, thus:—Suppose that instead of a simple aperture, there was a large branch . added to the artery of the same diameter as the aperture, and that it ramified in the r common way through some adventitious vascular part, a wen, for example, and termi-ui nated in corresponding veins, and that these ended in the common trunk of the basilic vein, every body must see, that in this case the trunk of the artery would dilate till it became proportionable in capacity to its branches ; for till then the trunk would be the , narrowest part of the canal,-—the part where there would be the most resistance, and therefore the yielding coats of the artery would give way till the just proportion was established between the trunk and all its branches. These two cases, I apprehend, are similar as to the principal point, but differ in some particulars. In the case of an aper- ture, the resistance to the blood is diminished; thence it will move with more celerity;' i the trunk of the artery will be less enlarged, and the branches will shrink a little. But in the case of an additional branch, the resistance, I presume, would be as great as before ; the celerity, therefore, would not be increased, the old branches would continue of the same dimensions, and the trunk would therefore increase still more.” (p. 407- 411.) (1) Lawrence (a) observes on this point:—“ The sensation is almost the same as that which is communicated to the hand by the vibration of the cord of a musical in* i strument, and it is particularly described by some writers, who call it a rilling noise;- some call it a whizzing, and some a vibratory noise. This noise is not only heard in the swollen part of the vein, but it also extends along the course of the vessel up the arm.” (p. 166) Liston (b) says:—“ On applying the ear close to the tumour,or listening through the stethoscope, the peculiar noise is not only felt, but heard of almost startling intensity, somewhat resembling the noise of complicated and powerful machinery softened and confused by distance.” (p. 676.) Liston relates an excellent instance of aneurysmal varix in the femoral vein and artery, consequent on a deep chisel-wound in the lower part of the thigh, which at the time bled profusely, but having been stuffed and compressed, healed in course of eight days.” A twelvemonth afterwards, troublesome pulsation was perceived in the part; at the same time, the veins of the leg became varicose, and a succession of ulcers formed on the lower and anterior portion of the limb. The affection attracted little attention till between twelve and thirteen years after, when he observed a considerable swelling w the site of the wound, beating strongly, and the pulsations accompanied with a peculiat thrilling sound and feel—not confined to the tumour, though strongest there, but ex- tending to the groin along the course of the femoral vein, which was evidently much dilated throughout its whole course. Six months after, the tumour was nearly equal tc the fist in size, of regular surface and globular form, pulsating very strongly, and im parting to the hams the peculiar sensation of aneurismal varix, remarkably distinct «w>* powerful. The pulsation and thrilling are continued in a less degree to Poupakt * ligament, and down to the calf of the leg. * * * He feels little pain, but exercise anc exertion of every kind are seriously impeded.” (p. 676.) Firm and constant pressun of the swelling, with uniform compression of the whole limb, were employed, and Liston («) Lectures, above cited. (fc) Elements of Surgery, port ii. London, 134®. insnHMMHBi