AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. 801 a catheter constantly worn, or by the operation for phimosis (a). If the warty excrescence have a neck, it may sometimes be easily removed from the base. Sometimes the cancer only attacks the prepuce, without the glans itself being affected, under which circumstance the removal of the prepuce is sufficient. If the cancer be already on the glans and spread further, amputation of the penis is the only remedy. This opera- tion is m general more successful than the removal of cancer from other parts, but an important point is, that the testicles, the skin about the pubes, and the inguinal glands should be free from hardening. confimi 3S t0 the recurrence of this disease certainly do not °the eSrsta~S^ rnH-°fthe r6Sult of imputation of the pads, even l . e,a, y staoe’ as the disease almost invariably returns. I remember one verv CaSe,lr? whlch- under favourable circumstances, the younger Cline removed the whole perns as low down as the membranous part; by detaching it as far as nSe from the pubic bones in front of the scrotum, and then making a cut into the iSns tmXTone?11 7 ^ scraPed ^ ^ ™ to S^y’ panof the• but rem the hulb’ leayiuS ouIy the membranous quicklv and XstvnvL L vd ? a fe7J!eeks took on a cancerous disposition, spread J. F. I.) d d t j d the patlent probably quicker than if he had been left; alone.— lio-tomt ApPU-at'0n of the penis is performed either by the knife or by a mWrl tn e70US *0 t,he operation the 9lans should be carefully exa- Z3e ofTh! Whfll,’e PreP““ al0"e b» affected. As mich as rfthe mil - ’ s'0U d a"aj” be Preserved, as thereby the discharge the urme is rendered easy, and even connexion itself is still possible. near the hiS^T ?6mS by the knife varies> as h is performed penis d Part °f the gl<mS’ °r in the raiddleJ or at the root of the of the glans alone or near its hind part, an assistant draw' thp tU- L b.ehllld the diseased part, with his thumb and finger, and penis whiel "b Ti i P 16 °Perator then takes hold of the fore part of the Cuts it off at °U1 dLbe WrfPped in linen> draws it a little towards him and Part. The bW!in°ke ^7 3 Sma1,1 araputatinR knife through the healthy blood f,. W° vesse]« are then to be tied, and the weeping of the wound i 0mi 1 ‘e sP°h§y bodies stanched with cold water, and after the Sic^eintTed’ a,fTer ca,,lle‘e'- or l>ie“ »f catheter is to above,tbe “rf,lra’ “d ‘he edges of the wound dosed from put over”r Md8aWM if ® P1*?",' So™ 'vads of 11111 ™ then to be hands,4 Thcdni h""11"?6 ff1tened over 11 "*h a narrow 2477 Tr b “ flle “reAm 1111181 he Axed by tapes through its eyes operator “ZTZ Z** middh’ tlle assisla"‘ and the •ithout dSSJ tha t bfor,e tlie Pait »bere it is to be out off, Tying is a? in the ffrmeie OT 11,6 *» of *•» commended thTcut m -T' lhe P]ibic hones> Schuegku has re- don of the stiimn nn,l T 6 7lth reP?ated atrokes> to prevent the retrac- Au assistant presses le,K er *® application of the ligatures more easy. Pubic an.de and Hw? ,U ) {r°“ th? P^rincBum forwards towards the 3k'n forwards divirlitl16 operator having first drawn the penis and the irleries ; after m ikin? 7 Sb"' Up,°n the. ^orsum penis and ties the dorsal Perilous arteries ofW ™?°°Ud C,UtUhe Pfoceeda in the same way with e penis, and after the third, with the cavernous (<i) Eabi.e ; in Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 289. vOI.. a.