282 TREATMENT OF removal either by extirpation or tying, by destruction with caustic or with the actual cautery, by exciting a pretty violent injlammation and suppuration, and by tying the principal trunk of the artery, with the branches of which the swelling is connected. I he choice and preference of the several modes of treatment depend on the condition and seat of the disease, and we must be especially careful in the selection of these, that the teleangiectasic tissue be capable of sufficient inflammation and suppuration, and that the scar thereby produced can be converted into a tough tissue, with obliteration of the vessels, without it being necessary to destroy or remove it entirely. 1514. Compression of teleangiectasy, either alone or m connexion at the same time with astringent remedies or cold, can only be employed in a slight degree of the complaint, in congenital red spots, if their seat, permit it, with some degree of success (a). I have, however, from thiaq mode of treatment, frequently as I have tried it, never obtained any sato* factory result. Abernethy (b) recommends pressure, and if this be inapplicable, the appheataon o cold rose water and alum. I have instituted several experiments with kreosote, but have never observed the slightest result (c). Compression has been used, according to dXent seat of the disease, with flat plates and stirrup-shaped compressors, and even with plaster of Paris. 1515. Extirpation of teleangiectasy with the knife, is always accom-r panied with more or less considerable bleeding; as, if the patient be youno-, and the seat of the disease such that it is not possible to complete the operation quickly, the danger maybe imminent and even fatal_ Evegl thing depends on the cut which is carried round the swelling being madw at sufficient distance from it in the healthy parts, as otherwise, on account of the very numerous and largely-distended vessels, severe bleedip ensues ; and if a part of the swelling be left, its recurrence is to be feared If it be requisite to leave part of the swelling, the actual cautery m applied, or caustics with subsequent pressure in order to cause destruc- tion, and at the same time to stanch the bleeding, wound is to be treated according to the general rules. This treat“en^ often tedious, because frequently no satisfactory suppuration ensi the edges of the wound long continue loose. In large and A?1 te giectasTes, therefore, extirpation can never be employed, but especially only in those which are elevated and have a narrow base. _ . £ I have known two instances in which children died upon the operating tab c in « pating^teleangiectasy from the face; and at least in one of the cases, no one cool doubt the capability of the highly-distinguished operator. 1516. Tying a teleangiectasy has always this great advantage o extirpation?that nothing is to be feared from bleeding. Its employ is specially applicable to projecting swellings with narrow base , but in the large and out-spreading teleangiactasies, which are prom ’ £ <f mode may, according to White (rf), Lawrence 0), and Brodi-U be employed with the best result, as has also happened to m cases. Lawrence penetrates the base of the swelling. with a stto .. slightly-curved needle, carrying a double thread, whichl is m) cl both sides As soon as the mass of the swelling blackens, it may off wilh the knife, and the ligature removed. Brodie thrusts a ha^ Col Roux, above cited, p. 248. (e) TraDS’ ° P j gj «• * W 1W. vol. XV. pt. i.