RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. 844 continued to the left side, and thus makes two semilunar cuts at the inser- tion of the wings of the nose, which pass round their lower part outwards • and upwards into the former cut. These side flaps are now carefully divided from the bone, so that they may be raised and turned backwards. The skin of the cheek next the nose is then to be separated to the extent of three or four lines from the bone, so that it can be slipped towards the middle. The edges of the middle flap are now cut with scissors, in such way that its inner surface will be narrower than, but not separated from the epidermal side, for the purpose of giving the flap the form of a key- stone of an arch. The edges of the wings of the nose are to be cut in the contrary direction, so that a strip as thick as a straw may be removed front the upper surface, leaving the inner surface untouched. After carefully cleansing the wound from blood, the parts are brought too-ether with twisted sutures, of which the lowest should be by the side 0f°the tip of the nose. Around that part of the upper lip from which the septum has been taken, a ligature must be passed, and so placed behind it as to draw it and the tip of the nose forwards, and prevent its reunion in the old groove. The junction of the side edges of the nose with the skin of the cheeks is effected with four interrupted sutures. Lastly, two long pins are carried through the edge of the separated, skin of the cheeks behind (on each side of) the nose, through strips of stiff leather, which are pressed together on the one side by the heads of the pins, and on the other by twisting their points spirally with the forceps, by which the nose is permanently projected. The after-treatment is conducted accord- ing to the rules laid down for the Indian Rhinoplasty. ”1108 exceedingly troublesome and very painful operation rarely answers expectation, as according to my own experience, although the nose remains for a time after the operation pretty well, yet subsequently, it again shrinks. For this reason, Dieffenbach thinks it preferable, in most cases of flattened nose, to insert a strip of skin, which may afterwards be partially removed (a). [Liston’s treatment of this deformity is much more simple. He observ^:-‘‘ »jj£ times the cartilaginous portions of the nose fall a prey to abscess and-dceragon .white the integument remains intact, excepting the column, which usually s hares.the fate the cartilages. The consequence is a sinking down into the nasal cavity. Th'!' sion may be obviated by simply raising the parts after dividing any adhesions that my have formed in their new situation. By stuffing the nose carefully and neatly, gument is retained of a proper shape until the disposition to fall in is in part oven and firmness and stability obtained. Then a new columna is “4 ’264.) careful stuffing of the nostrils is continued until all has become consolidated (f Ftugusson’s (b) method differs from Liston’s, in not making use of stuffing M supporting the cheeks. He “ introduced a scalpel into the opening m the: nose, aad® sected the sunken alee from their attachments underneath, then raised the cl \uch more than half an inch from the surface of each upper maxillary bone, and cuU^. •in extent as to allow, when the finger was introduced under the nose, to ran P it into a shape somewhat like the original. He then passed two silver needle* arrn^ with steel points, and provided with small round heads, from the le the bones, right, under the nose, and through those parts which had been dissected fro h T v means of two pieces of firm leather, two inches long by one half hroaa A which^the pins were also passed, he was enabled on twisting the extremity of eacti p 4 Apt wYttmann" be^i'verUfifp^l-’e K«ien' m»l deren der Heilkunde an dor Fniversitat *u Wien, vol.%1. p. T.13—Michaei.is, Ueber die He 1 j*t jr, normalen Form eingerallencr I **e" -|-|,eiics; in Vorziehens ihrea iibrig gebliebene ^ vol. von Gbaefk und von " altheb Edinburgh Medical and Surgic* vol. xliii. p. 3t>3. 183j. bK [P u pi: [is 1 feai ’Til tea A 'if f:r: ^ I