[ 1002 ] II.—Or Resection of the Blade-bone. von Walther: in his Journal fur Chirurgie uud Augenheilkunde, vol. v. p. 271. Haymann ; in the same, p. 569. 2852. The practicability of this operation von Walther rested on his experiments upon the dead body. The blade-bone is laid bare by a crucial cut through the skin, forming flaps by turning it back, but leaving the muscles on the hinder surface of the bone; the insertions of the muscles are cut oft close to the outer and inner edge of the bone, which is then sawn through transversely immediately below the spine, so that the upper angle and all the parts above the spine remain; lastly, the subscapular muscle is separated and the muscles generally on the front of the bone, which can be done with the handle of the knife. The trunk of the sub- scapular artery is not in this way injured. 2853. Haymann performed this operation successfully on account of a tumour attached to the blade-bone. He laid it bare with two large semi- lunar cuts through the skin and tendinous expansion, and cut it away with some quick strokes of the knife ; the bone was then sawn obliquely through the spine, so that only the glenoid cavity and the parts above the spine remained. After the cure the upper arm could be moved in most directions, its elevation alone was interfered with. Liston (1), Janson (2), Luke (3), Syme (4), Wutzer, and Textor have performed this operation (5). [(1) Liston (a) removed in 1819 about three-fourths of the scapula, leaving only the glenoid cavity, processes, and half of its spine. It had been at first intended to remove “ a very large, hard, inelastic tumour, firmly attached to the bone, and extending from its spine over all the lower surface of the bonebut on attempting to detach it from the spine, “ the knife and fingers suddenly slipped into its substance. This was attended with a profuse gush of florid blood, with coagula.” Liston then considered it necessary to remove the portion of bone above mentioned. The disease seemed to have been medullary sarcoma. The disease, however, recurred, and the patient died. (2) Janson (b) removed a large portion of the blade-bone which was involved in a tumour, but left the glenoid cavity. (3) Luke’s (c) operation in October, 1828, was for a medullary sarcomatous tumour, occupying the whole of the infraspinate pit of the blade-bone, and protruding from the subscapular-pit deeply into the arm-pit. The patient was a girl of fourteen, and had only noticed the swelling about six weeks. He “ made an incision through the skin, beginning at the axilla, and extending it along the axillary margin of the tumour and anterior costa, and then with a sweep around the inferior angle to within a short dis- tance of the spine of the scapula. He extended a second incision from the commence- ment to the termination of the first, along the lower margin of the spine; also through the skin, which being drawn upwards, exposed the spine and adjoining muscles. The muscles lying over the supra and infra spinal fossa were next divided in the direction which he proposed to saw through the bone. * * * By grasping the tumour and inferior angle in his left hand, the scapula was steadied whilst he sawed it through in a direction from a little behind the glenoid cavity to a little above the superior angle, which latter was therefore removed, the spine being sawn through near to the root of the acromion.” (p. 237.) The soft parts were then carefully separated from the tumour, which was detached with about three-fourths of the scapula. The bleed- ing was free, particularly in the neighbourhood of the armpit, where the axillary ves- sels and nerves were exposed. Twenty or thirty arteries were tied, and about a pint or a pint and a half of blood was lost; but the girl did not faint. The edges of the wound were brought together with straps of sticking plaster, the arm secured with a bandage to the side and the fore-arm put in a sling. In about two months the wound had healed completely. Eleven months after the operation, “ the motions of the arm for- ward and backward were perfect, and in fact more than ordinary, the limb moving with („) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, (b) Mai.oaigne, Mcdecine Operatoire, p. -- <>• vol. xvi. p. GG and p. 215.—Elements of Surgery, (<■) London Medical Gazette, vol. v. 13J0. p. 100. Second Edition.