VARIOUS MODES OF AMPUTATION. 892 seventeenth century ; in amputating the leg, he made, from the calf, a pil ji low in shape of a flap, for the purpose of covering the stump. Verduxn (a t S and Sabourin (b) afterwards arrogated this discovery. Flap amputations 4* restricted by their inventor to the leg, were applied to the thigh also by j Ravaton (c) and Vermale (d), and with them commenced Amputatioi 1 with two flaps. They always made use of flaps, in doing which, the knife I was thrust through the whole mass of limb to the bone, carried some dis-*B tance beyond it, and then the parts divided outwards. Langenbeck (e) j forms flaps, either one or two, by a deep cut from without, inwardaj towards the bone. Upon flap-amputations may further be consulted Salzmann, De novo Amputationis Methodo. Argent., 1722. La Faye, Histoire de 1’Amputation suivant la Methode de Verduxn et Sabourin; in | Memoires de l’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. ii. p. 243. Garengeot; in same, p. 261. O’Haluoran, A Complete Treatise on Gangrene and Sphacelus; with a new Method - of Amputation. London, 1765. 8vo. Siebold, Dissert, de Amputatione Femoris cum relictis duobus carnis segmentise Wirceb., 1782. 2692. Pott’s (f) method must be considered as a compound of the circular and flap operations, he cut into the muscle first on the one, and then on the other side obliquely from below upwards, and thus formed a wedge-like wound. Siebold’s (g) proposal corresponds to it, and con- sists, after cutting through and drawing back the skin, in making the cut through the muscles obliquely upwards, first on the outer, and then on the inner side, by which a wound is formed as in Pott’s method. Here also- belongs Schreiner’s (h) plan of dividing the skin and muscles with one circular cut down to the bone, and then by cutting upwards on each side with a bistoury to the bone, forming two flaps, which he separated from the bone, and sawed the latter off’ in the angle. Herewith must also be placed the modes of proceeding which, by Lax- genbeck and Scoutetten, are confined to disarticulations, the oi-al cut also < used in amputating the continuity of the limb, the oblique cut of Sedillot, Baudens, and Malgaigne, the sloping cut of Blasius (i) ; in making i which, the soft parts are divided in an oblique surface, or in form of the mouth-piece of a clarionet, or in the form of so that the point o tie cut is on the front of the limb, a little above the part where the bone is sawn through, and the rather rounded base is behind and below. Sedillot, Baudens, and Malgaigne, divide in this way, the skin alone, separate i , and divide the muscles higher with the circular cut. Blasius, wit a peculiar knife makes two cuts through the soft parts, which both pass obliquely to the long and thick diameter of the limb, and unite at their end, by which a wound is made, presenting an obliquely cut out funnel or cornet, and has close below the place of division of the bone, a re-entering, (a) Epistola de nova Artuum decurtandornm ratione. Amstel., 1696. (b~) Manoetti, Bibliotheca Chirurgica, vol. ii. (/) Above cited, p. \,55 fol Salzburg. Med.- (c) Le Da an, Traitc des Operations de Clii- rurgie, p. 564. Paris, 1742. (fl) Observations de Chirurgie pratique, pre- cedees d’une Nouvelle Methode d'Amputation. Mannheim, 1767. (e) Bibliothek fur die Chirurgie, vol. ui. part n. vol. tv. part iii. ( f) Above cited, p. _ . «. (y) Salzburg. Med.-Cliirurg. Zeitung, p. 44. 1S12. (h) Above cited, p. 162. ..,;nns (i7 Der Schragschnitt, Eine neue Ampu Methode, u. s. tv. Berlin, r .ion -- Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 377. Sec<m<' Oppf.nheim’s Zcitschrift furdiegesammteMedecin Jan., 1843; p. 10-