SYMPTOMS OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB. 717 (n) Arclmes Generates de Medecinc, vol. iii. p. 1%. 1838. 2367. Polyps of the womb are formed either in its fundus, its body, or > its neck. In general they resemble each other in having a long pear- > shaped form with a thin neck, in being of a fleshy or fibrous structure 11 and in being covered with a smooth shining skin. Various differences are t however observed, as they are sometimes round with a broad base, have an > uneven, cleft surface, and their internal structure is sometimes more soft -■ ancj sPongy 5 at other times more tough, and sometimes having cavities I: which contain different kinds of substances. Sometimes they are very vascular, and at other times contain few vessels. Their size differs, and n ^ sometimes very great. Mucous polyps are rarely produced. I have seen a polyp, which though rooted in the cavity of the womb itself, hung out two inches below the fissura magna, in structure resembled a mucous polyp, and at its lower edge it had fringed lobes, and an aperture through which a thick probe mio-ht i be passed to its root. ^ 6 .?P°“ K~ p?Iyps in tb? womb>in old women, accompanied with leucorrhcea, but “ wlthout bleedlng> (hypertrophic mucous sacs,) Nivet and Blatin (a) may be consulted. IL 2.3t6'8-, Thf characterizing a polyp of the womb are, at first, very doubtful; whilst small it causes no remarkable inconvenience to the womb. ItAsU increases, it often excites squeamish ness, disposition to vomit, weight ■ an ragging in the loins and region of the sacrum, shooting and itching -tUn the breasts. The walls of the womb are gradually distended by the ^ polyp; its vaginal portion becomes shorter, thicker, and harder, and the I °T p0f10n °f the u<)nib is lai’ger than usual. By the continued growth Bhwf the, TUth of the womb is afc last opened, when an escape of ISt!Uld- and often violent bleeding, takes place, and the polyp1 pro- fe. udes through the mouth, either gradually or suddenly, on every exertion falhng’ OT? t0 St°o1’ and the like’ Pai«s bke labour r 3a*ns, and dragging of the generative organs. If the polyp protrude into I ■ e vagina, it enlarges quickly, causes pressure on the bladder and rec- i'TtLT CunSGqUfnt di*cult7 in voting the urine and stools; the pain | irJerahlWM^ ^Ums becomes greater, and there is often con- I ,f Xb b b eedln°’ ooonrring either of itself, or from any exertion, shaking I hie ,w ff VC- f ,<Be blTlingS tlePe"d »» constriction ivK 5® PflyP su1ffers frorn the mouth of the womb, in consequence of lome m bl°0d CGl GCtS ant thG Vessels bursL The discharged blood is S 2 TS-7ie7 rd’ SOmetimes black, sometimes brownish or watery ex.7s5iv,t fnking * k, ~ rwzs&ijsi 'lun'tlV’a .‘1 C0n81an'l-V dragged and pulled down, and there is, conse- d‘ Icemtion ilTitati°n ^