OF THE UPPER JAW. 999 from its anterior attachment. The proceeding is not to be dreaded on account of its extent; indeed, removal of the superior maxilla alone is the more troublesome. Sup- posing that the more extensive extirpation is required, incisions must be made so as to expose freely the tumour and bones where it is proposed to cut them. First of all, one of the central incisors must be extracted, either the one on the affected side or the other, according to the extent of the tumour. I have been obliged to remove a considerable portion of the jaw opposite to that principally affected; and in that case one of the molares was removed, in order to admit of the division of the bones. The point of the bistoury is entered over the external angular process of the frontal bone, is carried down through the cheek to the corner of the mouth, and is guided by the fore and middle fingers of the one or other hand, as may be, placed in the cavity. A second incision made alon°- and down to the zygoma falls into the other. Then the knife is pushed through the integument to the nasal process of the maxilla, the cartilage of the ala is detached from the bone, and the lip is cut through in the mesial line. The flap thus formed is quickly dissected up and held by an assistant; the attachment of the soft parts to the floor of the orbit, the inferior oblique muscle, the infra-orbital nerve, &c., are cut, and the contents of the cavity supported and protected by a narrow bent copper spatula.” (pp. 311, 12.) Or the flap may be formed in the following way with less extensive cuts. “The in- cisions were commenced at the inner canthus of the eye, carried by the side of and close to the ala of the nose, along the margin of the nostril, and then through the upper lip exactly in the middle line. Another incision was made from the commencement of the first, in a curved form, along the lower margin of the orbit, and, of course, in the direction of the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The flap thus formed was by (pSS314°)n’ tU™ed outwards and held by an assistant until the processes were cut.’’ Fergusson's (a) directions for making the skin-flap are, “ that an incision should be made from the margin of the upper lip towards the nostril, and then from the ala, as nigh as within half-an-inch of the inner canthus of the eyelids; next the cheek should be laid open from the angle of the mouth (or near it) as far as the zygomatic process of the malar bone, and, if necessary, an incision at right angles with this one should ex- tend from the external angular process of the frontal bone, towards the neck of the lower jaw; now the flap between the nose and the wound in the cheek should be dis- sected irom oft the tumour, and turned upwards on the brow; then that portion of the cheek below and behind the wound should be turned downwards, and the mucous membrane divided, so as to expose freely the interior of the mouth.” (p. 548 ) Cases may certainly occur in which the use of chisel and hammer may be neces- sary, but they cause great jarring and should not be used by choice, more especially as m general the detachment of the jaw can be most quickly and conveniently made cutting pliers, or nippers, and strong scissors, as recommended by Syme and Liston’ The former directs that “one blade of a large pair of cutting pliers be introduced Tni'v'i!'6 T6’ “i?6 °t ler mt0 the orblt’ so as t0 divide the nasal process of the maxillary bone. The connexion with the malar bone is next separated in the same way, and then the palate, previous to which one of the incisor teeth must be extracted if necessary The Surgeon haying now deprived the bone of all its principal attach- ments, wrenches it out either with his hands or strong forceps.” (p 487 ) Liston's proceeding is nearly the same. “ With the cutting forceps the zy-o.nat c m^h the ^ KtS0”,1”' l>~k, Om following account of the^ace'‘rising6™'a Vevef ? ‘th ft" enfl°rmous growth^onlpl^eTy Ucujfed o"£ at;