TYING THE ARTERIA INNOMINATA. 245 { [ (1) In reference to this most important point it may be mentioned, that there are ,5' i the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital two preparations. The one, an aneurysm of ic arch of the aorta, involving part of the arteria innominata, and mistaken for carotid neurism ; a parallel instance to Allan Burns’s case. The other, an aneurysm from le curvature between the origins of the left carotid and subclavian arteries, which bmmunicated by a narrow canal with a large bag in the neck, and having the carotid •tery behind it. The latter was the case to which Astley Cooper referred, when ad- lising Burns to be cautious in undertaking a proposed operation for a pulsating tumour iifwve the clavicle, which was at first thought to be a subclavian aneurysm. In the “piseum at Fort Pitt, Chatham, there is a preparation of an aneurysm as large as a walnut ■‘tween the origins of the arteria innominata and left carotid. And also another bounded r the brachio-cephalic trunks in front, the sac of which is deeply indented bv the ierta innominata.—J. F. S.] J 1455. Allan Burns (a) and Hodgson (1) proposed tying the arteria nominata, and showed, by injecting the dead body, that the circulation in be supported after the obliteration, and that on the subject, the operation n be performed without great difficulty, if the head be bent back, the ernal portion of the sterno-mastoid, sterno-thyroid and hyoid muscles be parated, and the artery followed to its origin. Mott (h), Graefe (c) rendt'(d), Hall (e), Bujalsky, Bland, and Lizars (/') have per- ffined this operation on the living subject, but not successfully. In Mott s case, the patient died on the twenty-sixth day, in Graefe’s i the sixty-seventh, and in Arendt’s, on the eighth day; in the two rmer .cases from repeated bleeding, and in the third, in consequence of here inflammation of the aneurysmal sac, of the pleura, and lun°- OTT begmnnig from the aneurysmal swelling, made a cut above the ’ ar-bone, lengthened it to that bone, and continued it on the windpipe ;ove the upper end of the breast-bone. From thence he made a second it of about the same length, and earned it along the inner edre 0f the *no-mastoid muscle. He then separated the skin from the Zfllsntl yoides beneath it, cut through the latter, and carefully separated The .rnal part of the sterno-mastoid muscle in the direction of the former ie internal jugular vein, which had adhered to the swelling- was w separated, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles cut through d turned back over the air-tube. The carotid now laid bare for some d the°foi ^t‘bone’ was separated from the pneumo-gastr c nerve d the internal jugular vein, which were drawn to the outer side S ndleT,ttr,5U,WaV,ia" ar‘,e,r)-’ " particularly u^fl £e ! ndk* of the scalpel, and a small narrow knife, with a rounded cutting W tt Ser*° thfe di!ision »f‘k« arteria innominata, ‘*>e recurrent out half an inch above its Si'hhn * thr<!ad ar°U”d ,he aitoT> I °r the..inner edSe of ‘he sterno-mastoid ■" rt portion of the breast bonT" tW° mCheS downwards upon the I blunt hooks, !» , ! ’ ‘5en !iI» of the wound ■ mal part of , I' P Ses wre-finger of Ins left hand, between the ««he% of*es£;r„:id and ;?ern°rhy°id »ot zc ' ■>».-..!.« !.« 8’ SePara“ng ‘he °elh"ar ‘issue op to the 5, vo'd|C'.,anJ1 SurK- Register of New York d„-d.r-Y®rmi?cllte Abhandlungen a us dem Gehieio »V0N Wal! "al above cited, and vol. iv. pt. iv. p. ,1- lYr-il — AbhancU>mgen aus dem Gebiete Aerne m St°®se“lsc,laft praktischen f i ,St Petersburg. Samml. iv. 1830, p. 188. Sur‘' *-** ■“ (f) Lancet, 1836-7, vol. ii. p. 445, p, 602.