621 BY THE VAGINO-VESICAL CUT. n oroin, and places the fore and middle fingers of the right hand near the S orifice of the urethra at its under part, which he draws down tightly, at I the same time separating the labia with the thumb and other fingers. The operator then finds the hinder extremity of the urethra with the left a thumb-nail near the neck of the bladder, places the nail upon the right < edge of the staff, penetrates the stretched urethra with the lithotome, and vj enfarges the cut by carrying the scalpel forwards in the groove of the ■ staff, ^and at the same time presses it on with the thumb until the opening is of sufficient size (a). 2131. The vagino-vesical cut has the closest resemblance to the recto- B vesical; it is performed most safely in the following manner. After placing a the patient in the position for the lateral operation, a staff is passed by the p urethra into the bladder, and a wooden gorget with its concavity upwards n is introduced into the vagina. Both instruments are brought together so i> as to form a larger or smaller angle, in proportion to the cut to be made. The gorget is to be well pressed downwards, so that the front wall of the . vagina can be got at. A straight, pointed bistoury is to be held like a i pen in the right hand, its point passed into the groove of the staff behind > the canal of the urethra, and then by thrusting it forwards, an opening is >i made corresponding to the size of the stone. Its extraction and after- treatment are conducted according to the ordinary rules. ; i 2132. The advantages of this mode of operating are great. There is V no bleeding, no incontinence of urine, and the largest stone may be in this way removed. The production of a vesico-vaginal fistula, which may be r objected to this operation, cannot, at least from present experience, be con- i sidered as the usual consequence. If this operation be restricted only »d; to the extreme cases of very large stones, it has however there undoubted n preference over cutting into the bladder above the pubes, as the patient’s life is never endangered, and at the utmost there is the inconvenience of a j fistula. The objection made by some, that the scar produced by this gs operation would cause difficulty in child-birth, is contrary to experience. Upon this subject the following works may also be consulted — Fabricius Hildanus, De Lithotomia, p. 149. Ruysch, Observationes Anatomico-pathologicse, Ohs. i. Mery, above cited, p. 28. Louis, above cited. Bussikre ; in Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxi. p. 100. 1699. Lister, Iter Parisianum, 1697. « Goocu, Cases and Practical Remarks in Surgery, vol. ii. p. 182. London 1758. 8vo. 9 Miciiaelis, Etwas uber den Blasenschnitt, p. 57. Marb., 1813. Dupuytren, above cited, p. 55. Flauber et Clemont; in Sanson, above cited, p. 23. Vacca Berlingiiif.ri, above cited, p. 110. > Del Taglio vagino-vesicale, Pisa, 1825. [In all the previously described operations, incontinence of urine is a very trouble- thk onprSrqUenC.e-a!,d,°[U;n inourable- Astlkv Cooper, indeed, saysIn all cases of reteinprfTnWhlCo haye Per,forraed or witnessed, the urine has not been afterwards loss of li “!■1 W-°U d "0t de“y [hat a Patient might recover the retentive power. As the oZ v !'°VS,a £re.ater evl] than 1 ean describe, producing excoriation and a very bv emnlovin C’. 8, 'n any future operation of lithotomy, try what may be effected tion oLyoio,(Vtt Ure l0 ^nnS,the divided parts together.” (p. 303.) Bhodie’s opera- (.P • - 24) seems to have been partially successful; but Liston (par. 2123) seems («) Aboveciteil, p. 154.