PREFERENCE OF HUNTERIAN OPERATION. 226 artery, depends on the impossibility of properly sustaining the circulation in the limb by the collateral branches, and by the anastomoses of the* capillary-vascular system. Perhaps such unyielding condition of the collateral vessels as does not admit properly the restoration of the circu- lation, is also a principal cause of secondary haemorrhage, inasmuch as the blood is driven with so much more force against the seat of the ligature, and thereby tearing of the artery is easily produced. The circulation is most easily restored in young subjects, and with a certain energy of circu- lation. After tying the principal artery of a limb, if it be even ultimately well nourished, the limb is always more or less numb, insensible, am] has its natural warmth diminished. In proportion as these symptoms art slighter, there is greater hope that the circulation will soon be restored. It is endeavoured to promote the circulation with warm flannel, or warm baga filled with sand or aromatic herbs so applied that the limb is not at all pressed, and renewed as often as they begin to cool. Subsequently wamr applications of spirituous or aromatic fluids are to be used. After some: days usually sensation and warmth recur, the latter often to a high degree* and continues, although the limb be not enveloped in warm bags or over- lays. It is not uncommon that, although subsequently the circulator recur properly, the extreme parts of the limb, to wit, several of the toes* mortify. If, after persisting for several day's in the use of the above- mentioned remedies, and of careful rubbing, the sensation and warmth dr not return, there is the greatest danger of the limb mortifying. It ther ■ swells considerably, becomes bluish, and if the patient do not die in con | sequence, amputation is the only remaining remedy, but it rarely has aJ favourable issue. [Sometimes, although the operation go on favourably, and the ligature-wound heal yet the aneurysmal sac will burst and discharge its contents; this happened in Joh: , Hunter’s third operation (a), four weeks after the operation, “ but it healed up like an;, j other sore, and at the end of three months he was perfectly recovered.” (p. 161.)] 1429. As regards the preference of the old, or of the Hunteria: j operation, it may be assumed generally of the former —frst, that oi I account of the usually deep situation of the artery, and of the nerves am veins connected with it, which parts have changed their natural place. I it is always extremely complicated, difficult, and excites considerabl i injury, especially as the sac is generally in the neighbourhood of a joint >j second, that if the aneury'sm be consequent on an inflammatory, ulcer « ative, or otherwise diseased condition of the artery, the ligature, althoug j applied both above and below the sac, may be placed on some part of th | artery where the walls are not disposed to adhesive inflammation ; that in this operation there is always a considerable quantity of blood lost^l fourth, that on account of the large and deep wound in the neighbourhood 1 of the joint, anchylosis commonly remains, and, fifth, that after-bleediaH is frequent after opening the sac. On the other hand, by this operation &-1 the coagulated blood is removed from the sac, which, after the H^j terian operation, if not absorbed, in rare cases produces inflamrnatior 1 suppuration, and bursting of the sac. 1430. The advantages of Hunter’s mode of operation are in gen^ I much greater than those of the old ; for therein the place for applying p* t ligature may be selected, and probably upon a part of the artery' is best suited for adhesive inflammation; the operation itself is accon^J (a) IIomk’s account, above cited ; in Trans. Med. and Chir., vol. i.