912 REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. 1838 continued. John M'llard, aged 42 (sailor), ad- mitted May 29. Charles Russell, aged 28 (.farm-ser- vant), admitted Dec. 27. 1839 William Wilmott, aged 26 (carman), admitted Nov. 6, 1838. James Arnold, a ed 22, admitted Aug. 27, 1H38. Eliza Phillip*. aged 22, admitted April 23. Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. Remarks. Dis- charged. Anrhylosis of left knee- June 2. With vertical flaps: live arteries were tied; lost inint with severe nain on much blood at the operation, and became very ihgh’teTt touch Pof the faint, the medullary artery bled ve.y fiercely uJlp but was stopped by pressure. As he rallied * bleeding began again, and did not cease till six- teen other vessels, nil of smnll size nnd much retracted, had been taken up; the me- dullary artery a»,fn burst forth, and was aj-am stopped by pressure. Another vessel was tied two or three hours after, nnd the bleeding then censed ™ be adjusted ns nt first; next day he complained oi pain in his belly ; had tightness at che“t and stehed frequently ; continued very restless. On the fourth <lay suppuration commenced, and he complained of pain on the outer and under part iof the slump; a bread poultice was applied. On the fifth day the stump became more pnfui,andvvlien pressed much pus was discharged from the upper gap of the wound, wh eh was dressed to-day, and he became a little the easier; m the evening he pan in his telly erased. On the sixth day, the pain in the stump, which had diminished, became very severe and the outer flap was much inflamed, some way up the thigh ; he was very restless, and. had much constitutional excitement. On the following day he was rather better but the erysipelatous blush had extended upon the buttock, lias hitherto taken laudanum to allay irritation and give rest, which, however, has not been very effect-ee, and beeT tea the latter of which was to-day changed lor a mutton chop and a pint of p^ter. Ooi the eighth day was worse, his tongue coated ■ pulse very quick and irritoble , looks nmnous, en-sipelatous blush extending to the iliac crest; discharge from wound diminished m Quantity and thinner On the following morning had some hiccough ; looked wild, Slouch perfectly sensible; and hod some mucous rattle in his windpipe, winch towards evenin', increased and the hiccough constant, lie continued getting lovrer, nnd the breathin', worse. Brandy was given to keep him up, and the bronchial affection attacked with blister, and afterwards mercurial friction, but without avail; his bowels got out of sorts hut he went lingering on till the evening ol the tsnuUuth day. The rl„ht rtleura was found covered with congulnble lymph, nnd contained four ounces of serum, with flakes both lungs gorged with sero-purulent fluid ; the bronchial membrane deep red The mucous membrane of the stomach thickened nnd mammlllated wuh brownish-red patches ; and that of the intestines, small and lu.ge, here and there ulce- rated in patches , the stump sloughy. Severe laceration of the skin of the right leg, and of the 77i. gasirocnernius; consequent on injury bv cart-wheel. Was much depressed at his admis- sion. Severe contusion of the right leg, consequent on being jammed between u cart-wheel and the kerb- stone ; followed by ex- tensive sloughing of the skin of the bnck of the leg, nnd suppuration be- neath the whole remain- ing skin of the leg and upper part of the thigh ; unu great depression. Soft anchylosis, ulceration of < artllages nnd abscess in left knee-joint. Not much affected constitu- tionally by the disease, and very urgent for the operation. Dec. 27. Eight hours after accident. 3ft anchylosis of left knee-joint, with constant severe pain, sp cmllv at night. The disease be- gan nt two years of age. The knee bent at a very acute angle, and very tender. April 18. May 10. With circular cut; four arteries tied; lost much venous blood during the operation, and was much exhausted ; wound brought together with a single strap, and the dressing completed twelve hours after. On the fourth day irritative fever came on, and he became much excited. On the sixth day little union, and free suppu- ration of the wound, the bone a little protruding. On the eleventh day a little graze on the other leg was observed to be separating, and on the eighteenth about a pint of pus was discharged from beneath it; subsequently suppuration ex- tended beneath the skin of the whole leg. He improved u little, but aftetwards sunk again, complaining the day before he died, of severe pain in the chest. On examination the femoral vein was found tilled with pus up to a valve four incites above its cut end. The bronchi were acutely inflamed. With circular cut; lost but little blood during the operation ; the femoral artcrv was tied before sawing through the bone, and other three after. The wound was brought together vertically with straps of plaster. He bore the operation very well, but was sick on being put to bed. From this time he gradually improved, nnd in thirty- three days the wound had healed, and he got up. With tiro horizontal/lap*; the soft parts much consolidated, and the flaps tinned back with difficulty. Had little arterial, but much venous bleeding. Five arteries and the femoral vein tied; the latter lmd bled most pertinaciously. The flam were at once brought together "an adhesive straps. Next day, much oozing hn»me taken place, the flaps were opened, a smalt vessel found and twisted. In the afternoon he began to vomit; another vessel was tied, ana the stump dressed. Third day. vomiting con- tinued, and at night he wandered much ; but on the morning of the fourth day he was less, continued so for six hours and died, l n<* examination threw no ndd’rional light upon the cause of death, which seemed to rest on the con- stitutional shock from the operation. With circular cut; six nrtoric* and the femoral vein were Bed. Tho ed*r* of the wound were brought together transversely, and fastenca « eight pins and twisted suture ; a wet rag *JPP* The pin» removed at »erenty hour*% and u opposite them; dressed with ndhMivepiast^- In course of a month the wound healed. i*«P< a little sinus, where the ligature* had brought out. May 7- June 12-