149 CAUSES. 1326. The antagonism of muscles is disturbed when either one part possesses an absolute excess of activity above the other, or when one part is so weakened, that it opposes no obstacle to the natural activity of the other. This may be effected by palsy, wounds, weakness of the nuscles, continued rest of certain muscles, tonic spasm, ordinary exertion of | certain parts, especially in particular positions, by which they are weaxied, * ‘specially in children still under development, by diseased changes in the nuscles, as from gout, rheumatism, inflammation, ulceration, ossification, md so on. The activity of the flexor muscles naturally, especially in the (I’tus, exceeds that of the extensors; hence also the gxeater number of congenital and original curvatures arise in the course of the flexors. 1327. The muscles which produce the curvature, suffer always a more >r less considerable degree of contraction and shortening, so that they are ■apable only of little extension, or of none at all. In long continuance of Ins condition, various changes occur in the tissue of the muscles, they ■ose their fulness, become thinner, even cord-like, and at last are converted :ito a fibro-cellular, or fatty mass (1). Whatever be the causes which ave pioduced the contraction of the muscles, these changes are always the , ame, and their common origin lies in the continual rest, in which such nuscles are found. Muscles, and, through them, their tendons and aponeu- oses, must be kept in their constant and proper motion and activity if leir vitality and organization is to remain natural, and a harmonious rela- on to exist between the voluntary influence which depends on the brain id the irritability which originates in the spinal marrow. If the activity , a,mUKCli befdamaSed by one of the above-mentioned causes, and the r„L7i flP m consla"t.re,s‘. il gradually diminishes, and at last all duntary influence over it is lost, and its irritability and tone increase uxespondentiy; by longer continuance of this condition, the tissue li thP UP’ bfCOm.f anyiel(?in&>18 to a certain degree atrophied, according ( the same law that the intestine below an artificial anus, or a vessel aC Zl^TlZlTk ’ S,',riVf U?’ P-0"15 t0Sether. and at last . . 7* / ie rest a muscle, when its contraction has once taken t eent1Sfli heref°re-rnIinUa1’ beCaUSe a11 voIuntaiT motions which the ■t ent attempts with the curved part, can occur only in such one wav itoTh^infof th6by n°t °at!,tretchi1n° and extension, but only I servLinn of il g V ?ontracted muscles, can be effected. A close I 7eoiaI,5r in the »• luenep Lri . , ear> that under such circumstances, the nervous B ninution of the'liervous S bC dimW?hed in th« muscles, and the hough the contraction „f H T1 mC.rea<ie U)' t0 aclual !>*%, plained the rSShv i n In this a‘so U s or diminution ,fn ^ pa ^ wuch originates from the brain, and influe,,ce depen<,i"s «■* y are lax and S I’ S™ P“ ^ prTfeCl"« from tllc sPb>al marrow k or byactivftv of,’,r0<IUCe,d by topical «““« ™ ‘>>0 muscle contraction of the muscfes and of'tT narm"’ mal be the first origin ■ ‘he continued «£7(!f ,he 0?rvature ‘hereon depending; onsequence of continual snasm l 7’ll0 6 IS n.ot t0 l ie considered as stasis ■a«'ed quiet 5tate. The A