THEIR CAUSE. 671 unount of pressure on the vascular walls of the follicle as to abrogate its special func- iou, and the peculiar elements of the sebaceous secretion, cease to be produced. The 'orniation of epithelium, however, still continues, and layer after layer of epithelial scales ire developed, until the mass acquires considerable size. Tumours of this kind, from he nature of the position of the sebaceous follicle, namely, within the corium, rarelv icquire a large size as compared with tumours in other situations. They are prevented rom pressing inwards by the deep stratum of the corium; the same structure opposes heir increase outwardly or laterally. Nevertheless, I have seen a tumour of this kind, finch measured three quarters of an inch in diameter, but not more than a quarter of n inch in thickness. The aperture of the follicle remains open, and is more or less dis- ended in proportion to the extent of the tumour; but from the nature of the collection, here is no tendency to its escape. I have called such tumours sebaceous accumulations. lertaiu minute tumours, commonly met with in clusters, around and upon the eyelids,' ebaceous miliary tubercles, are of the same pathological nature with the sebaceous Accumulations, but in these the excretory follicle is closed. The peculiar patho- logical character of the tumours just described, is their laminated texture, and the identity of structure of their contents with epidermis, most, if not all, of the peculiar J onstituents of sebaceous substance being absent. * * * If now, in the cases l bove recited, we imagine the upper wall of the laminated tumour to be removed, and ^jhe accumulated substance exposed to the influence of the atmosphere, any moisture i, etained by the epithelial lamina: would soon become dissipated, and the whole mass Lfould acquire the consistence and hardness of epidermis of equal thickness; in other ■Aords, it would be converted into horn. Such a case as I am now supposing, does some- a mes m reality occur. The aperture of the follicle acquires an unusual decree of dila- ■ition, and some of the hardened contents of the tumour are pressed through the open- i Jg- By the addition of fresh layers from below, (the formative power having increased Wj tae removal of superficial pressure,) the indurated mass is still further forced out- ■mras, dilating the aperture as with a wedge, and finally increasing its size to that of the i -atire base of the hypertrophied follicle. The process of formation of new epithelial Sayers by the walls of the follicle (now become the base of the mass) will go on, unless Interrupted by surgical means, for years, and in this manner those singular bodies of Hlnch so many examples are on record, horns, are produced.” (p. 57-59.)] ff 2199. The proximate cause of these growths is a perverse and increased ihcretion of the vascular net of the skin, of the mucous membranes or of h ie internal surface of encysted tumours. They are most usually pro- ■iuced in persons of advanced age, and their immediate cause is con- binued irritation of the skin, or of the mucous membrane by kicks, blows ■ mating, wounds, scars, eruptions on the skin, and the like; or they are in I . relation with suppressed menstruation, rheumatism, and gout J • rickets. Most cases, however, show that persons affected with these (f -owths are in otherwise sound health ; and even when they are thrown ? there is usually no disturbance of the constitution. I obsfyed,in a f°Yth of this kind> which was an inch high I M form ih c m ha f r°Und lts,base' hard and dusky, from its base to its tip, that it r?Tgingmfr0m the base t0 the dP’ aild which at bottom were I ~ atyrt ,by fdt’ so as t0 have the appearance of ordinary fibrous tissue The ;,rVhe, “r be“”in,6 c;^r *'» <ip.m“,i;sg”vishThbLf ard ; thfy were also less soft and white as they approached the surface. 1 Jh f ,ySl y separated at the root, and were continuous with the fibres of the skin I Ie hairs1 W f‘Ct °f, VeS8jls belnS also Present, led him to believe that they were' not °t the/br0as tissue‘ MebcIER supposed R 4 d intermediate fluid ’ AncnrP * '? hardness depended on the evaporation of the fat seised secretion but of act,a 0TfdmV° h's. not'on; so.me horns are not the result of dis- I Ch hornc •? V “ • * actual transformation of the skin. Hairs may however exist in I be formed of conglomSi SWfd!ln.gS’ but the ho.™ must not therefore be considered i oonn ir conglom<-ration of hair, as supposed by some persons. | formed °f thes? ,ll0rny £rowths proves that their base I ore particular^ ™T’ f , f1" r°0t USUally’ in ,Tlucous membranes | P Cularly’ consists of a lardy, vascular tissue, similar to the matrix («) Bullet. tic In Socicte Anntomkiuo do Paris. 1835, p. 114-131.