REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE FORE-ARM. 927 included another amputation through the fore-arm for accident, as the patient, Henry • Parker, has been already mentioned (p. 914) among the fatal cases of amputation through the thigh., This second operation was performed twenty-six hours after the accident. Liston’s cases were six, of which four were for scrofulous disease; one for encepha- loid disease of the hand; one for painful stump, all of which recovered.] ► Report of Five Amputations through the Fore-Arm from the Year 1835 to 1840 inclusive. Accident or Disease. Operatec on Remarks. Dis- charged. 1S3T i Samuel Winter, & “ged 68 (la- < bourer), ndtnit- 1 ted June 20. Scrofulous disease of right wrist-joint, of eighteen months. July 21. With two flaps just above m. pronator quadratus three arteries were tied, and the flaps brought together with three sutures and strips°of plaster. In the evening felt severe smarting in the stump ; became siclcish, and constantly retching; about four hours after vomited pro- lusely, and the smarting subsided. Sutures removed at forty-four hours. Sept. 9. 13 3S 5f Thomas Young, f aged 42 (water- i man), admitted March 24. Contraction of the muscles of the hand and fingers after diffuse cellular in- flammation, nine months since March 31. With two flaps; two'artcries tied , flaps brought togetherwith four sutures and straps of plaster- sutures removed at forty-six houra. Attacked with vomiting on third day, but not continued On fourth day stump attacked with erysipelas’ which subsided after two days. On twentv- sveth day a whalebone spring applied to the remaining ligature, which would not come off out after ",<!ar,n£ for tcn days it was pulled May 8. 1839 Henry Brewer, aged 36, admitted t Sept. 10. Scrofulous ulcers on right hand, with stiff fingers Disease first showed itself twenty-one months since. Oct. 10. With two flaps; five arteries were tied, and the wound brought togetherwith straps of plaster • but free oozing continuing, it was opened again! and two more arteries were tied ; the dress- ing left for a few hours. Nov. 16. 1840 Benjamin Neal. • aged admit- ted Jan. 17. Compound fracture of the first three melacnrpal bones,and severe lacera- tion of the skin and muscles. Jan. 18. Twenty- bur hours afler accident. With two flaps; four arteries tied ; the flaps brought together with straps of plaster live hours after. March 3. William Dodds, - aged 35 (tailor), i admitted May 19. Medullary sarcoma of right radius; first com- menced four months since. July 18. With two flaps; five arteries were tied ; the venous bleeding very free, as the veins’were very bulky. Flaps brought together with plaster three hours after. Nov. 24. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE METATARSAL AND METACARPAI BONES. Ampntatio Metatarsi et Metacarpi, Lat.; Amputation der Mittelfuss- iind Mittelhand- knochen, Germ.; Amputation des Os du Metatarse et du Metacarpe, Fr.) 2727. Amputation through the metatarsal bones is differently Der »rmed, according as the metatarsal bone of the great or little toe or of "ore ^ rem°Ved ' a”d aCCOrding “ the S°ft I!,'!0Urnlq,rl S!10;J!‘I ht a5plie!l above thc knce ar,tl intrusted to one sistant; another holds the foot, and a third draws the toes asunder 979«tie? 18 t0 be placed M in amputation through the leg. fAmPutatl°n through the metatarsal hone of the great toe is ner r£ lfferf Way8’ aCC°rdin& as the ^ndition of the soft part admffs 97oo re°n, °f‘an lnner> uPPer> or under flap. 1 olis onfall 7ft be formed from the sole, the operator, when the left gT?8 the great t0e’ and draws inwards, whilst an - ant draws the next toe outwards ; but if the right foot be operated on UZZITr tHe SeC?nd rpe and draws 11 outwards whilst an assistant S | eonl th mWafdS; ?! knife is now carried between the toes »-i here i/i« t ? * outflde of the great metatarsal bone, to the part I? o e sawn through. The knife is next placed on the inner