TYING THE BRACHIAL, 252 sidered, first, at the end of the axillary artery, where it passes beneath the lower edge of the great pectoral muscle; second, in the middle of the upper arm ; and third, at the elbow-joint. . 1465 If the artery be to be tied in the arm-pit, the arm must be separated from the trunk, and the fingers carried along the inner edge of m. biceps into the arm-pit, for the purpose of ascertaining the course if the muscle, and the position of the artery. A cut is then to be nude along the inner edge of the m. biceps, of two inches in length, which is to extend upwards to the middle of the neck of the upper arm-bone. Ihe skin first and then the aponeurosis is to be divided, with a caieful cut; or the latter is first raised with the forceps, and cut into with the bistoury held flat, so as to admit a director, upon which it is to be divided. Ihe * edo-es of the wound are now to be separated with blunt hooks from each i other, when the inner edge of the m. eoraco-braehialis ^nd biceps o- gether with the median nerve, are now seen, and behind the latter lies . the artery. The nerve is drawn carefully inwards, and the artery which i is between it and the edge of the just-mentioned muscles isolated, and the needle carried carefully around it, so as not to include the internal 1 cutaneous nerve. ......, If the operator keep on the inner edges of the m. biceps and coraco-braclnahs, in the e manned recommended, and draw the median nerve inwards, there ^o da^r of erring which may easily he done if he keep somewhat more inwards, where the radial - or ulnar nerve are met with; and if one of these be mistaken for the median, the artery I will be sought in vain. The following is the relative position of the artery :-The - artery is separated from the edge of the m. biceps and coraco-braclnahs only by the median nerve ; on its inner side is the internal cutaneous nerve, and these two nerves at once cover the front of the artery. Near the cutaneous nerve lies die vein, which frequently forms two or three branches, and these render the isolation of the artery \ difficult. Still further inwards lie the radial and ulnar nerves. 1466 In order to tie the brachial artery in the middle of the upper j «m,acut, two and a half inches long, is made through the- Am.along . the inner edge of the m. biceps. The aponeurotic expansion is then to be divided, and the artery is found on the inner edge of the just-named muscle covered with the median nerve, between its two accompany g j veins. The edge of the m. biceps is to be taken hold of, and the medi nerve drawn somewhat inwards, between which and the edge of muscle the artery appears, and is easily isolated with the handle knife ; the ligature is to be carried round it with Deschamps needle. The’brachial artery frequently divides high up. If the ulnar artery bes river. off high up it is always observed to penetrate the fascia of the upper arm, and tak If the radial originate high up it for the most the ulnar artery to the elbow-joint, aud then separates from it (a). Tiedemanj. t • who has very often noticed the high division of the brachial artery m the corps -> in such cases the radial artery nearly always very superficial at the dlately under the aponeurotic expansion, from the aponeurosis of the m. / 3— it is very easily ,ou„«, but can .to h. «■«■£"£ £iSSl artery lies beneath this aponeurosis of the m. biceps. If, on laving tare . artery two arteries are found, they must be alternately compressed, m order to as^rte-n whether the pulsation in the aneurysm be stopped, for the purpose of tj mg which it is seated. UlCIl It lO 1467. To tie the brachial artery at the bend of the arm, a cu inches long is to be made through the skin on the extended arm, u direction of a line imagined to be drawn from the middle, betwee (a) Hodgson, above cited, p. 301. (6) Walther, above cited, p. 03. Tabula! Arteriarum, pi. xiv. xv.