204 ORIGIN OF Not unfrequently there is more than one aneurysm existing at the same time: it, therefore becomes a matter of high importance to make a careful examination o the whole of a patient’s body upon whom it is proposed to operate; for if there be any no real benefit, a ^ Cline was about to operate upon a man in St. Thomas’smHoSl who lmd a popliteal aneurism, but deferred it on account of the Ihomass Hospital w j T e abdomen A few days afterwards the man died sud- denly, and, on exammatio , ,, , ti.„ excitement of an operation may stretched himself on his back, and Ins urine flowed from him fopeened g the middle ot tne tnign , examination, an aneurism was found in each making in all seven aneurisms. , afterwards found to have seven instance in which he operated on a nonliteal aneurysm in the left ham. aneurisms.” The operation was performed for a PJlltea^^ci^ the operation, I “ Whilst feeling in the course of the .artery, before co^encmg p foimd,” says Tvimnim,‘‘a and at that period another aneurism was found ^ssaL«jss£-” ssz Ji space between the two aneurisms in the fe , . During the following three half, appeared sound, and a ligature was PP ismal sac }n tlie ham sloughed, weeks the limb became gangrenous, and the fear of the diseased exposing the thigh-bone, but ^putatton was not >he WOund nntil the sixth condition of the artery. g „ / ■ j t weeks and a half after the WszMmssMIIP2 some dilatation of the aorta, immediately a °^e j ® pElletan (a), w-lio [observes Still more remarkable is the case “efXcW SSSSv to large and small “ I have_ often S6C" nrer0UA:!!fUi?“ifsaVone man, from the size of a filbert “all the arteries were studded with 3Ss principal divisions, but they to that of a large pea. Some were on the aorta and P P the limbSj» which, projected little and were much less numerous than neeHaces • all the swellings were “on many parts of their length, formed n prim os less numerous; numerous and close together. Those of the lower torts ^rial walls without exaggeration they might be estinu e a s the tunics were dilated d thinned. In none mu 1 ooserve .upiu.s — de_ 1407. The old opinion that spontaneous aneurysm ^ ^os aluaj- wends on an expansion of all the arterial coats ha*.been writers, but most efficiently by Scarpa, and the ot ig’ • . placed in a tearing of tlie internal coat of jeai t h artery- W «• tear on »/““1 Lm. - (a) Clinique Chirurgicnle, vol. ii. v