76 FEMORAL RUPTURE tumour on the grom, and the omentum, in the sac just opened, seeming scarcely sufficient to account for the severity of the symptoms of strangulation, we determined on narrowly examining the sac, to ascertain whether it communicated with the large swelling. In carrying my finger round the hernial cavity for this purpose, it suddenly passed into an aperture on the outer side, and, being pushed onwards, entered the large swelling, and passing along it nearly as far as the iliac spine, could be readily felt, and not deeply, beneath the skin, which was then slit up on my finger, and thereby a large mass of healthy omentum exposed, which, being raised, about four inches of small intestines, chocolate-coloured and bright, but with a few patches of adhesive matter beneath its peritoneal coat, which also adhered slightly to the omentum, came into view. The mouth of the sac was speedily found, and my finger with little difficulty passed into the belly; but the gut would not return till the aperture had been enlarged with the knife. About four ounces of omentum were cut off, and the wound dressed; she re- covered without an untoward symptom. I presume in this case that the hernial sac had burst, but how or when, the history of the case gave uo information, and that the pro- truded bowel and large portion of omentum had no proper sac, but had merely formed themselves a cavity in the cellular tissue. Case 2.—A. B., aged fifty-five years, a healthy, stoutish woman, of loose texture, was admitted Feb. ‘24th, 1842, having been the subject of femoral rupture on the right side for twenty years, the latter half only of which she has worn a truss. On the morning of the 21 st ult. her bowels were last moved, and, having exerted herself more than usual during the day, the rupture increased beyond its ordinary size, and could not be returned as previously. She was constantly vomiting during the night; and next day was bled, put in the warm bath, and had the taxis applied for two and a half hours with- out relief. The vomiting ceased in the course of the day, and nothing was done for her yesterday except giving some sulphate of magnesia in the evening, which, not operating, castor-oil was given this morning, but without relief. She has now (noon) a little hic- cough, and frequent fetid eructations, but has not vomited since the 22nd ult. The belly is generally tender, and the pulse small; but the countenance is little distressed. In front of Poupart’s ligament there was a large swelling, extending to within two inches of the iliac spine, but not much elevated, and from its inner extremity a second swelling descended in the usual situation of femoral rupture, but pyriform rather than globular, and passing down lower in the thigh than usual. A distinct indentation existed between the two swellings, as if they were separated beneath the skin ; and at this part was a scar, the result of an abscess five years ago. The fingers could be passed behind both swellings, especially the inner, which was tender; but neither were inflamed, nor appeared to have been much handled. The general resemblance to the former case was very strong. The taxis was employed both before and after the warm-bath, but with- out avail, and with her consent the operation was performed, at 2, p.m., upon the inner swelling. After cutting through, and turning oft' the skin and superficial fascia, an absorbent gland was found on Poupart’s ligament, sending inwards a neck to join another below it; and three absorbent vessels were seen entering the former gland, having risen up from the femoral sheath, and by their tightness produced the depression between the two swellings already mentioned. The neck of gland was divided, and the fascia propria, which was very tough and almost fibrous, slit up on a director, exposing the hernial sac, which was so much larger than seemed at first, that I was obliged to widen the opening in the skin by cutting it inwards. The sac was then opened, and a small quantity of fluid escaped, followed by protrusion of omentum; and the cut, having been completed with a bistoury upon the finger, a knuckle of intestine, about three inches long, was found on the inner side of the swelling. I then passed my finger down to the stricture, and could enter just the tip within it; but the size of the other swelling rendered it so deep that I found it necessary to enlarge the external cut upwards previous to division of the stricture, which was made sufficient to admit the finger readily into the belly. The gut being congested, but bright, and, having examined the strictured part, and emptied it, I returned the bowel without difficulty into the belly. On carefully examining the hernial sac, in reference to the remaining swelling, I found an aperture in its outer wall close to Poupart’s ligament, through which my finger readily passed into the tumour, the extent of which outwards was ascertained by the finger being burk'd up to the knuckle. The cavity contained nothing but soft omentum, which, having in vain attempted to withdraw, I thought best left alone. That omentum, however, in the opened sac, though healthy, being large in quantity, I cut off, having previously intro- duced a double ligature, and tied it on each side, which prevented any bleeding. She was then put to bed, and recovered without any hindrance.