IN THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. 395 Ie larunv is elevated; the epiglottis is thus mechanically thrown as a bridge across the ■runx and so effectually closes it that the smallest morsel, or even a drop of water, can ' r id no’ admission. * * * But it is different when a man attempts to draw a full inspira- L whilst any foreign body is within reach of the current of air about to pass into the Rn»s At this time the epiglottis is raised, the rima glottidis is distended, and every- siiins' appears to favour the entrance of the air, and, of course, of whatever it bears Don| with it. Thus, a person holding a sup of wine in his mouth to enjoy the flavour, 06 cautiously attempts to breathe, a drop of the fluid enters the larynx, it produces great Ofritatiou and the spasmodic cough that ensues throws it out with great violence, per- Bms even through the nostrils.” (pp. 184, 185.") _ ...... j I One of the most remarkable instances of a foreign body getting into the windpipe Ji'ithout passing through the rima glottidis is mentioned by De la Martinique (a). A is lild, nine or ten years of age, amusing himself with cracking a small whip, was sud- * inly seized with extreme difficulty of breathing, and soon exhibited all the symptoms iq:' approaching suffocation. He complained, by gesture, of some impediment in the ,i achea. The Surgeons who saw him, aware that he had never been left alone, and that f»! 3 could not have put anything into his mouth, did not suspect the existence of a foreign nj^xly impeding respiration.” He was bled, the throat examined, and an oesophageal [! lugie passed, without making any discovery. The symptoms became more urgent, and ‘ ie la Martini ere saw him an hour after. “ On examining the neck externally, I ' .und,” says he, “ a small red spot on its fore part, like the middle of a flea-bite, iinme- ately below the cricoid cartilage, and beneath it was felt deeply a little circumscribed so inglion as large as a lentil, corresponding to the red spot, and of unnatural bright- I] ass; the sensation could not have been more distinct through the thickness of the parts. :> at once determined to cut through the skin and fat upon this spot. The finger having 5i ;en introduced into the wound, and touching the tubercle, which was close to the wind- i pe, I deepened it with a second stroke of the knife, and laid bare the cartilaginous i- ngs of that tube. I felt with my nail an irregularity, projecting at least a line above t s convexity, and endeavoured in vain to seize it with the dressing forceps. Luckily I r ad with me a pair of hair-nippers, and with these caught hold of the body, which I | rew out, and, to my great surprise, found it to be a large copper pin without a head, jgl lout an inch and a quarter long, which had pierced through the windpipe from left i i right.” The child got well in a few days.] 1754. The difference of the symptoms depends on the particular seat, i irm, and condition of the foreign body. If situated in the rima glottidis, !i nd completely closing it, the patient is suffocated, if not quickly relieved, nr the foreign body do not change its place by the violent inspiration and Expiration, which, however, is rarely the case, on account of the spasmodic ; ontraction of the rima. If the rima be not completely closed by the foreign jody, violent convulsive cough comes on, and the patient points to the Nieat of the body with his finger. A foreign body, if not of large size, lay remain lying in either of the laryngeal ventricles. Its symptoms are it first less severe, but the continued residence of the foreign body will, fi the end, be fatal (1). If it be loose in the windpipe, it moves up and town with every inspiration and expiration ; symptoms come on at inter- nals; the pain is severe; changes its place; the cough is frequent and Convulsive, so that, in very rare cases, the foreign body is coughed out; : ranger of suffocation occurs if it be forced up against the rima glottidis. groreign bodies rarely drop into either bronchus (2). Pointed rough mdies cause violent symptoms; the mucous membrane of the windpipe inflames, swells, and the passage narrows where the foreign body is fixed, f Lhesame happens with those bodies which swell with moisture. In rare ases the foreign body, after remaining a long while in the air passages, nd producing symptoms of phthisis, is thrown out, and the case terminates satisfactorily (3). • 1 ^ foreign body, to be lodged in the ventricles of the larynx, must be extremely , onali; and I apprehend such as are generally described as so situated are not so, but only (a) Mem. de l’Aoad., above cited.