STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 356 from stricture is very rare; but most commonly in long-continued stric ture, the urethra in front of it is contracted. The so-called caruncle, o growth from the inner membrane of the urethra, which was formerly con sidered the most common cause of stricture, and probably nearly always confused with what we call stricture, is rare. They are frequently foum as little masses of soft warts behind the stricture ; at other times they are not found behind, but before the stricture ; they are commonly simila to those growths observed on the prepuce and glans. I have seen in on person, who had frequent claps, the urethra tilled with round excrescence for an inch behind the fossa navicularis. •<* A- ■lii 1 X lia iti i to» Hunter (a) has described three forms of stricture of the urethra; first, a permanei stricture depending on a change in the structure of the urethra ; second, a mixed cot dition of permanent and spasmodic stricture; and, third, a simple spasmodic stricture The adoption of this third kind rests on the notion that the inner membrane of the uretlir is endowed with actual capability of expansion and contraction, depending on its muscula nature. This opinion is contradicted by examination, which shows that the membranou part of the urethra is surrounded with an injectable tissue similar to the spongy body, br in which no muscularity can be discovered (6). Charles Bell (c), who considered tb urethra to be simply elastic, supposed that many symptoms of stricture depended on th influence of the perinacal muscles surrounding the neck of the bladder and the vrethre Although there may be some grounds for this opinion, a certain capability of contrac tion and expansion cannot, however, be denied to the urethra, as so many excretory pair sages which equally exhibit no muscular character, and where only very rich yascula. ramifications are noticed, are so endowed, without, on that account, distinguishing wit* the name, spasmodic stricture something else than a stricture (depending on a change c structure in the inner membrane of the urethra) which is accompanied with great u flammation, great sensibility of surface, or in the neighbourhood of the canal oftb urethra, and with increased irritability of the surrounding muscles, by which a grer degree of stricture may be produced. Here, also, must be distinguished from spasmodi contraction of the urethra and neck of the bladder those cases which come on witbem inflammation and organic change, and merely as a symptom of diseasedly incr^ sensibility of the bladder and the urethra, and mostly only transient (d)._ Itnw also be remembered, that even spasm may accompany every acute and chronic lnhan mation. The mistake must not be made of assuming the existence of spasmodic stnetun because on examination of the urethra after death no trace of stricture can be found, t which, during life, there were symptoms, and which generally depends on the mode ■ examination, as, if it be not carefully conducted, nearly everything disappears on cutting into the stricture (e). „ , _ ,. re- r (i) “In the majority of instances,” observes Brodie, the disease (s ,. , began in the anterior portion of the membranous part of the iirethra limn . behind the bulb and in the situation of the triangular ligament of the penniTum, in some instances it had its origin in the urethra, somewhere between the pa j_ mentioned and the external orifice ; and that in a few cases it is confined to t e orifice, and the canal immediately adjoining to it. Occasionally where t le g> and principal stricture has been in the membranous portion of the urethra, another stricture anterior to it; and in cases of very long standing it is not unu find the greater part of the canal in a thickened and contracted state, (p- *■) - . ture which affects the external orifice, and anterior extremity of the urethra, it many cases, connected with an adhesion of the inner surface of the prepuce clans. Such adhesion is usually the consequence of a congenital narrowness prepuce, combined with want of due attention on the part of the nurse to ti cleanliness; and hence it is that patients who labour under this kind of stri ’ queutly declare that they do not know when the disease began, and that t 3 remember the time when the urine flowed in a full stream.” (pp. 6, /•) J 1678. The diseases which may be confused with stricture are, in . mation of the urethra, clap, spasm of the muscles surrounding the abscesses or swellings in its neighbourhood, stone, and diseased j am ■jX ■«* » q*l > 1, ;oo VO! 'I Iw Ift ! ;uti t'% ; Oil Above cited, p. 120. (<d Above cited. . . ois.—Lisrs*1'1 ,l\ Shaw .Iohv, On the Structure of the Mem- (rf) Soemmkrino, above cited,p.- (UJ OHA», > . M„1 n|,<, Tnn. ‘ ‘ branous Parts of the Uretlu-a ; in Med.-Cliir, Trans,, vol.x. p.339. 1819. above cited. (e) Amussat, above cited.