227 THIERRY AND AMUSSAT’S METHODS. s oanied with much less difficulty and pain; after-bleeding is more rare; i .lie patient can use his limb as well after as previous to the operation ; t experience speaks in favour of Hunter’s mode of operation. Finally, in nany cases where, on account of the seat of the aneurysm being near the runk, the opening of the sac is not possible, this operation is alone admissible 1431. Important, however, as is the superiority of Hunter’s over the ild operation, so that by many Surgeons it is considered unconditionally s the best mode of operating, yet after what has been already said about he accidents after the operation, the opening of the sac must be conceded f the aneurysm be diffused, and accompanied with much extravasation of •lood, and in aneurysm at the bend of the arm (1), on the back and front f the hand and foot, (par. 1425.) (1) Scarpa, Waether, and others, consider two ligatures in circumscribed aneurysm ; the bend of the arm, as a superfluous proceeding. Compare, on the contrary, the ises given by Wedemeier (a). The opening of the sac has also been considered preferable to Hunter’s operation, in lose cases in which the aneurysmal sac is very large, and its absorption not to be cpected; experience, however, shows that even the largest sacs will gradually Hmipish. 1432. The proposal of torsion of the artery in its continuity by means ■ a Deschamps’ needle (1), Amussat’s (2) division and thrusting back 1’ the internal coats of the artery, {refoulement de la membrane interne, et \oyenne de I’artere,) and Tavignot’s subcutaneous tying of the super- rial arteries, must be here noticed. (1) Thierry (£») and, subsequently, Lieber have proposed torsion or twisting the arte- il tube, instead of tying it, for the cure of aneurysm; and this mode of obliterating i vessel has been practised by them on a living animal. The artery having been ex- sed, a Deschamp’s needle is passed beneath so as to raise it, and then, by means of a 1 a twisting is produced, (without, however, opening the vessel,) proportioning the imber of turns to the size of the artery; the wound is then closed, and having nothing traneous in it, the obliteration is as complete as if it were tied with a ligature. ;rard (c) properly objects to this practice, that if the artery be healthy, there is no •r of the ligature causing bleeding by prematurely cutting through it; but if the artery unhealthy and friable, the twisting will at once cause tearing of its coats, p) The thrusting back of the arterial coats with forceps was the result of experi- ‘nts performed by Caron du Villars, and repeated by Amussat. In Amussat’s division and thrusting back the internal coats {d), the 'ery is laid bare by a pretty large cut, as in the ordinary mode of opera- 'n> and isolated for some lines. The artery is then seized transversely by 3 right hand with a pair of torsion forceps, the branches of which, when ,>sed, touch very exactly, so that the vessel lies directly between its clinches; a second pair of forceps is then applied with the left hand on ij: opposite side, at the distance of some lines, also transversely. The »\ <seJ is so held with the two pairs of forceps, that the forceps can be laid ■ rallel, and not at an acnte angle, and then pretty strongly pressed toge- f >r. By these means the inner and middle coats of the artery are torn, /! only, in the interspace between the two pairs of forceps, remains a ring C listing of all three coats of the artery. The thrusting back of the | emal coats is next effected solely by the forceps farthest from the heart, ‘-ause this, according to Amussat’s experience, is sufficient; and the 0 Above cited. ) Thierry, I)c la Torsion des Artires. Paris, i ute‘,’,-SnhirUr»i K,'Pfertnf-.pl.cc*xxiii. *Tn™ de Medecine, ou Repertoire vnlAi.^S68 Mcdicales—article, ,W- (rf) Petit Apergn critique sur quelques Pro- cedes recemment imagines pour obtenir 1'Oblite- ration des Arteres, sans avoir recours ii la Ligature. Paris, 1831.—MiTSOHERLicH,C.,Ueber Amussat's Metliode fiir die Operation der Pulsaderge- scliwiilste ; in Rust’s Maga/.in. q 2