36 1SCHIATIC RUPTURE. strangulation render the operation necessary, the dilatation of. the stricturing part must be made in such direction that no important vessel shall be injured, and as much as possible directly upwards. V.—OF ISCHIATIC RUPTURE. (.Hernia ischiatica, dorsalis, iliaca posterior, Lat.; Hiiftbeinbruch, Germ.; Hemie ischiatique, Ischiocele, Fr.) 1241. Ischiatic, Dorsal Rupture, passes through the notch of the haunch-bone, above the sacro-ischiatic ligaments and pyriform muscle, below the gluteal muscle, and appears externally near the lower part of one of the lateral edges of the rump-bone, or coccyx; it attains often a con- siderable size, extending more either upwards and backwards, or outwards, towards the perinceum. It contains, either merely intestines, urinary bladder, or both small and large intestines, the womb, and the like, together. It is undecided whether the male or female sex be more sub- ject to this rupture. It is more frequently noticed on the right than on the left side. It may be congenital, or may occur subsequently. The various cases of this rupture described are those of— Papen, C. H., Epistola ad illustr. virum Alb. de Hauler de stupenda hernia dorsali. Gotting., 1750 ; in Haller’s Disput. Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 314. Verdier ; in Memoires de l’Academ. de Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 2, note a. Camper, Demonstrationes anatomico-pathologicce, lib. ii. p. 17. Rose, Progr. de Enterocele ischiatica. Lips., 1792. Lassus, Pathologie Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 103. Cooper, Astley, above cited, p. 66. Schreger, Chirurgische Versuche, vol. ii. p. 156. Berzold ; in Siebold’s Samml. chirurg. Beobact., vol. iii. p. 292, pi. iii. Monro, Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, Edinb., 1811, p. 380. Hager, above cited, p. 275. Roubein, Annales cliniques de Montpellier, vol. viii. p. 354. 1242. The diagnosis of this rupture is very difficult. Whilst it is small and covered by the great gluteal muscles, it cannot be discovered. In making the diagnosis, we must first remember the seat of the swelling; the suspicion of a rupture is so much the greater when it is congenital, and has a form, namely, a globular form, which other swellings generally have not. It can only be determined when the intestine can be felt in the rupture, which may be returned, and again protrude. In small ruptures the convolutions cannot be at all felt ; and even without adhe- sions the return of this rupture may be impossible, on account of the small size of the aperture by which it has escaped. In large ruptures, an empti- ness of the belly is noticed. Congenital ischiatic rupture first begins with a broad base from the body, but in larger ones the neck is narrower than the bottom. As the urinary bladder can alone lie in dorsal rupture, so must the symptoms of vesical rupture be remembered in the diagnosis. The distinction of this rupture from a fatty or encysted swelling is difficult; it may be easily mistaken for an abscess when it proceeds to suppuration. Spina bifida is distinguished from this rupture by its seat in the middle of the rump-bone, by its fluctuation, and, in most cases, by its transparency. 1243. As in this rupture the pelvic aponeurosis is ordinarily torn and not displaced with it, it is covered only by skin, and by the outspread,