698 ENCYSTED TUMOURS.—SEBA CEO US TUMOURS. occurs under the skin of the head and face, and upon the back, though b rarely in other parts, has been subjected to particular inquiry by Astlp Cooper (a), who has fixed its origin in the obstruction of a sebaceo^ follicle of the skin, in which case the tallow-like sebaceous matter collec in its cavity, and its walls expand in the ‘cellular tissue ( Tumor sebaceus The form of this swelling is mostly globular; it feels firm upon the bea< but on the face fluctuates indistinctly. It often presents, at the begii ning, a dusky spot in its middle, which is the plugged-up mouth < the follicle, and from which the contained matter may often times t squeezed (1). When it has attained its ordinary size, from one to tw inches in diameter, it sometimes suddenly subsides, again begins, increases and acquires its previous size. It contains a substance similar to coagulate albumen, which, when the tumour suppurates, stinks horribly. It is ratht less movable than the common encysted tumours, and is more firmly cor nected with the skin. Sometimes the cyst contains hair; sometinu the swelling ossifies (2). Horny excrescences frequently spring from thes tumours ; the horn begins growing at the open part of the cyst, I at first soft and flexible, but soon acquires considerable hardness, an. assumes the nature of horn (£>). I he structure of the cyst varies, o the face it is usually thin, thicker on the back, and thickest on the head it also acquires greater thickness in proportion to the length of time it ha existed. On its interior the cyst is lined with an epidermis. Wha bodies have been artificially introduced, the cyst presents many but minut vessels. Pressure is a frequent cause of this swelling; also a disease- state of tire secretion, a deficiency of its wonted fluidity, a thickness of th substance secreted in the follicle, and flaccidity of its walls. I have see a considerable number of such swellings after the suppression of an erup tion on the head. They frequently seem to be hereditary. _ tJJ rnv The most simple form of sebaceous tumour, or, more properly speaking, &«■ ceous accumulations, as they are called, by Erasmus Wilson (c), is that commonly see- on the sides of the nose, and also upon the face m unhealthy persons, and not m frequently also on the shoulders and back, often in very-considerable number, v aryin in size from that of a pin’s head to a pea, the tops of which becoming blackened, ^ given rise to their vulgar name “ black heads.” Sometimes they lie quiet, giving to face a dirty ugly appearance; but if a little gentle pressure be made on either sidfti substance of which they consist oozes out like little yellowish white worn^or m by which name they are also not unfrequeutly called, of various ‘ength and according to the length and distension of the sebaceous follicle. ^metmies “ acquire considerable size; Asti.ey Cooper mentions that he himself bad the lower part of the dorsal vertebra, which had acquired a diameter of inches, and had a small black spot in its centre, which having been squeezed out a large quantity of sebaceous matter. Sometimes thesej collection not being rubbed out, as they frequently are after washing, or not h purposely squeezed out, inflame the follicles, and thus acne is prodo ’ fe commonly terminates in suppuration, covering the face and back with repea P pimples, especially annoying to females. „ , ,, . and hac Asti.ey Cooper considers the encysted tumours formed on the neaa. 8 ]] to arise merely from obstruction of the sebaceous follicles, and this opinion i- b ^ held. But I have great doubt of its correctness, for such cysts are always e > P aboTi without the least appearance of ever having had any opening; they may ^ very freely beneath the skin, to which they are so loosely attached as well al^as^ b cellular tissue, that after cutting carefully through the skin, they m y g irri,ate shelled out by running a probe around them, unless having by thei .nJoBW. A9ti.ey Coopf.r; in his nnd Travers's W a ether, UeberdieR? .. Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 2^.-Bakr.ch, (Pnes. dread} consider*-! .• Reichel,) Dissert. deTumoribus Capitis tumcatis (6) I Ins subject ‘ost Cephalagiam exortis. I.ipsia-, 1,dS-a.-vn^JreaUng of!Homs. no t wi <>o ycr f f 4 tut