HUNTER’S OPERATION FOR- 220 engaged the artery from its lateral connections by the knife, and from the parts behind it by means of the end of a thin spatula, a double ligature passed behind it by means of an eyed probe, and the artery tied, by both portions of the ligature, but so slightly as only to compress its sides together ; a similar application of ligature was made a little lower- and the reason for passing four ligatures was to compress such a length of artery as might make up for the want of tightness, as he chose to avoid great pressure on the vessel at any one part. The ends of the ligature were carried directly out at the wound, the sides of which were now brought together and supported by sticking- plaster and a linen roller, that they might unite by the first intention. ♦ * * 'phe ■ fourth day, Qn the removal of the dressings, the edges of the wound were found >i united through its whole length, excepting w-here prevented by the ligatures. * * * On the ninth day after the operation there was a considerable discharge of blood from the part where the ligatures passed out; a tourniquet was therefore applied on the artery v above, which stopped the bleeding; and although the tourniquet was taken off a few hours after, no blood followed. The head of a roller was now placed upon the wound, ij in the direction of the artery, and over that the tourniquet, which was not tightened more than was thought sufficient to take off the impetus of the blood in that portion of j the artery. * * * On the fifteenth day some of the ligatures came away, followed by ■ I a small discharge of matter, and the tumour in the ham was lessened. * * * About ; the latter end of January, 1786, six weeks after the operation, the patient went out of i the hospital, the tumour at that time being somewhat lessened, and rather firmer to the feel. He was ordered to make some degree of pressure, by applying a compress and bandage, with a view to excite the absorbents to action. * * * March the eighth, the t wound which had cicatrized, broke out again, and the patient was taken into the:■ hospital. About the eighth of April, some remaining threads of the ligature came- away, and an inflammation appeared upon the upper part of the thigh. In the middle of May a small abscess broke at some distance from the old cicatrix, at which opening some matter was discharged, but no pieces of ligature were observed. . Several small threads were, at different times, discharged at the old sores, and the swelling subsided; but the thigh soon swelled again to a greater size than before, attended with considerable pain. In the beginning of July a piece of ligature, about an inch in length, came away, after which the swelling subsided entirely, and he left the hospital the eighth day of July, at which time there remained no tumour in the bam, and he was in every respect well.” (p. 394-98.) Among the few remarks - which E. Home makes on this case, he says :—“ Mr. Hunter now rather disapproves the application of a number of ligatures, in the manner practised in the above case, as these - cannot come away without producing ulceration of the artery which they enclose, a tedious process when the ligature is not drawn tight; neither do I believe he would be: again inclined to heal up the wound by the first intention, but rather to allow the cut i surface to inflame and suppurate, by which he would have it more in his power to come at the artery, should that prove necessary; and probably, by means of the dressings, < he might make a gentle compression to assist the ligatures.” (p. 399.) Birch (a), of St. Thomas’s Hospital, performed, I believe, the second operation after i Hunter’s mode, in a case of femoral aneurism, resulting from a blow. “ On examifl I ation I found,” says he, “ a large tumour extending within two inches of Pour art’s | ligament upwards, and occupying two-thirds of the thigh; a pulsation could be felt. \ and there was no doubt of the disease being an aneurism of the femoral artery. * * * ; On Friday the third of November, (1786,) it was determined to perform the operation. | Mr. Cline undertook to compress the artery as it passed through Poupart’s ligament, | which he easily effected with a hard compress in the shape of a T with a broad basis. H It was agreed previous to the operation, that an incision should be carried in a semi- M circular form round the upper part of the aneurismal sac, in order to make room for a the longitudinal incision necessary to dissect down to the artery. This was accordingly i done; and the integuments raised, so as to make room to feel for the pulsation of the 1 artery. Some portion of cellular membrane and some lymphatic glands, were neces- * sarily dissected and removed with my fingers. I then separated the muscular fibres, ft and tore away the connecting parts, till the artery could be plainly felt in pulsation, j It was then necessary to divide a part of the fascia covering the artery, which was- c done by carrying the back of the knife on Mr. Cline’s nail, while his finder pressed*I upon the naked artery, after which the finger and thumb could surround and compre^ the vessel. An eye probe, armed with a strong flat ligature, was then pressed tbrongn i the cellular membrane and carried under the artery. This being effected, we had suen command of the vessel as to be able to strip it downward and pass another ligatun q (a) London Medictd Journal, vol. vii.; in Home’s paper just quoted.