896 TREATMENT disposition to cold shivering, the patient should be covered up warmly, and take a cup of warm tea, or broth. The application of the sticking plaster over the expulsive bandage, is preferable to that of putting on the plaster first and the bandage after, because the plaster keeps more firm, does not so easily shift, and does not so readily excite erysipelatous inflammation of the skin (2). I have never noticed, from completely covering up the wound with plaster, any inconvenience from collection of the secretions of the wound; whilst indeed the edges of the wound as they swell, protrude irregularly, and often are completely stran- gulated if a space be left uncovered between two pieces of sticking plaster (3). [(1) With regard to the direction in which the edges of the wound should be brought together, it is questionable whether the vertical one is the best, or whether the hori- zontal one be not preferable ; I have tried both again and again, and I am rather more inclined to bring the edges together in a horizontal line, especially in amputations on the lower limb, because without effort and simply by the position on its hind surface, on which the stump rests, the soft parts are kept closer together, whilst if the edges be brought together vertically, the resting part of the stump necessarily tends to keep the cut surfaces asunder. It may be objected, that the horizontal fitting together does not encourage the escape of the fluid from the stump so much as when the edges are brought together vertically, and renders the bagging of matter and sinuses more likely, but this is not the case, and when it happens, depends more commonly on the carelessness with which the after-dressings are made. I have, however, seen many very good stumps made in both ways. (2) Chelius’s recommendation of, and reason for, applying a bandage first, and the plaster after are very good, but it must not be supposed a long bandage should be applied; a covering to the stump a single turn thick, is all that is proper or necessary to bring - the soft parts well down to the end of the sawn bone, but more than this heats the stump. I do not agree with him in covering the whole face of the stump with plaster, the less of this the better, provided the object of keeping the skin close upon the face of the stump be effected; but I have not generally noticed the protrusion of the swelling J edges between the gaps of the plaster, unless the plaster have been too tightly applied, ij which however is often done, and the lips of the wound dragged together as tightly as possible, a proceeding bad, painful and useless, and generally consequent on too little 4 skin having been saved so that the edges will not, if the wound be properly dressed, come together at all. It should be remembered, that the plaster is not to pull the wounded surfaces together, but merely to support them when they are fitted together. 1 « think it therefore better not to fix one end of the strip of plaster on one side, carry it ■ s the face of the stump, drag the edges of the wound together, and fix the other end across the other side, but whilst an assistant gently brings the edges of the wound together UI1 II1C UlllCl o J c> o , , ,l - with the finger and thumb of each hand above and below, to place the middle oi we o . , - this plaster strap across it, and then run the ends up along the sides of the stump; brings the cut surfaces into better contact, and gives all the support necessary without . giving the patient pain. The first strap should be put on the middle of the stump, an one or two above and below it, a quarter of an inch apart, that whatever fluid oozes out may readily escape, for otherwise, in nine cases out of ten, most certainly quick of the cut surfaces will be interfered with, if not prevented, and the wound will ha c unite by granulation, and not be cured within eight or ten weeks, instead of three.g ^ ir as commonly, and sometimes in a fortnight as I have not unfrequen11 y seen. ^ to four CIO V U111 111 WII Ij , U1IU ovmvbiiiivw * ( *#* *1*T AAT1 to the protrusion of the swollen edges of the wound, when this happens it is east J trolled either by merely snipping the tight strap a little, near the wound, or by cu s it across just at the edge of the circular bandage, the plaster with wlncli it is SP being softened by the warmth of the stump readily, in the course of a few minutes a the strap to move down and the swelling disappears. . . fmIlch As to the plaster for dressing stumps, provided it be not stimulating, it is not °i_ whichever is chosen. That commonly used in our Hospital pra js*soap phister with a little resin, to make jt more sticky; but I prefer^kincens« alone. Ti Tyrrell thought equal parts of soap plaster and compound frankmcc^ plaster made the best dressing. Liston prefers a solution of isinglass in sp’r'^ ’ snread on oiled silk ; and Torboch, of Sunderland, recommends caoutchouc we • •L of which are said to be capable, from their elasticity, of yielding to the swelling » ^ the wound. The fact is, however, that it is matter of little consequence wnai if it do not irritate, and the Surgeon may follow liis own fancy. ^ p]astcr (3) Covering up a stump with pledgets and compress and roller, DUj.alion. applied, is better left alone, as they heat the stump and encourage sui p strips are " -/ r.T