1001 OF THE UPPER JAW. line of bone was then sawed off, except the condyloid process, which was' afterwards easily disarticulated and removed with Liston’s bone-cutter, having first divided the* fore part of its capsule, and also the temporal muscle from the coronoid' process”. (pp. 284, 85.) There was no bleeding of consequence, and the actual cautery was not applied. The flaps were brought together with sutures ; on the fourth day the external wound had united, and in course of a fortnight, she Walked about the ward. She left seven weeks after the operation, restored to a healthy appearance. This operation did not ultimately succeed, for Hktling states, “that the disease returned some time after the patient left the Infirmary, that she languished for about a twelvemonth, and died.” (p. 336.) This result is what usually happens in these cases of fungoid tumours of the jaw, if the whole of the bones affected, cannot be, or are not, removed by the operation. And Liston has justly observed :—“ If anything is to be done, it ought to be undertaken with a thorough determination to go beyond the limits of the morbid growth, to remove the cavity which holds it, and thus get quit, if possible, of all the tissues implicated, or which may have become disposed to assume a similar action. I know from experience, that this step, if adopted in time, may prove successful; and though at least a doubtful and very severe proceeding, not by any means unattended with danger, it is the only remedy. Let it be borne in mind, that it is only in the very earliest stage that any benefit can accrue even from the thorough extirpation; very generally the case is not presented until much too late, to one who understands the nature of the malady, who is capable of undertaking its treatment, and who has courage to propose and perform what is necessary. After theparietes have given way, and the growth has appeared in the nostril or cheek, the case is hopeless ; and the patient, as, of old, were those who ven- tured on the ocean, may be numbered with the dead.” (p. 307.)] 2850. After the wound has been properly cleansed, every spoutin°- vessel must be tied or twisted, the parenchymatous bleeding stanched with cold water, or with the actual cautery, the application of which may be necessary to destroy any remaining diseased part, the edges of the wound brought together and closed with the interrupted or with the twisted suture, and the interspaces with strips of sticking plaster. Filling up the cavity with lint is injurious, but laying in some pieces of German tinder convenient, as when suppuration comes on, it easily and completely separates. 2851. The after-treatment must be conducted according to the o-eneral rule. The dangers to be dreaded are violent inflammation, which may extend down the throat and to the brain ; nervous symptoms ; ill-conditioned copious suppuration, to contend with which frequent washing the mouth with warm water or any slightly aromatic infusion are most proper, at the same time supporting the strength ; after-bleeding, for which com- pression with German tinder must be made, which I employed in two cases with success; necrosis of the cut surfaces, which require purifying- washes for the mouth, and the ultimate removal of the separated pieces o'f bone; fungous granulations, which may be touched with caustic or with the actual cautery. If the disease recur, it depends upon the previous extent of the resection and the other conditions of the patient whether any repetition of the operation should be undertaken. Palsy of the face diminishes and ge- nerally after a time ceases. Upon this subject may be consulted also, Chelius ; in Heidelb. klinisch. Annalen. Guthrie; in London Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 315. 1835. Blandin ; in Gazette Medicale de Paris, vol. ii. p. 344. 1834. t^?S2,ANH’ UDtersuchungen Uber krankhafte Zustiinde der Oberkieferhohle. Dor-