75 FEMORAL RUPTURE WITH TWO SACS. rupture. As long as this rupture is enclosed in the anterior iliac fascia, it cannot well be strangulated, because the neck is the widest part of the sac ; but if that fascia be torn by great violence, then, according to Hes- selbach, strangulation may follow. The taxis is to be applied from below upwards ; and if the operation be necessary, it is only possible, according to Hessejlbach, to avoid wounding the circumflex iliac artery, which always lies in front of the neck of the sac, by the division layer- wise of the strangulating parts (a). [Astley Cooper observes, that “ it is by no means common to meet with deviations from the usual structure of crural hernia,” and describes three varieties; first, that in which “ the fascia usually covering the hernial sac has given way so as to allow a por- tion of the tumour to pass before it; thus dividing the tumour into two parts, with a sort of hour-glass contraction between them,” (p. 25, part ii.) very similar to which appears Hesselbach’s case, quoted by Key, where “ the sheath had given way in dif- ferent parts so as to givethe sac an appearance of five small tumours, which was probably owing to the apertures through which the absorbents pass having yielded, while the general texture of the sheath had resisted pressure.” (p. 25, note, part ii.) Second, “ when the tumour does not quit the sheath for the crural vessels.” Third, “ that in which the hernia is formed in part within the sheath, and also in the common wav.” (p. 25, part ii.) 3' I have had three cases of femoral rupture which seem distinct froifi either of those mentioned, and were furnished with a second sac, produced, I presume, by rupture of the original one. v Case 1.— S. R., aged fifty-six years, a stout, healthy, but flabby woman, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital on the afternoon of Sept. 23rd, 1837, having been subject of rupture on the right side for the last nine years, during the latter four of which she has worn, though irregularly, a cup-truss as the protrusion could not be entirely returned. Within the latter period the rupture has descended so largely five times as to cause severe vomiting, but has been relieved On the 20t/i ult. her bowels were moved, and not since. Next afternoon she was attacked with severe vomiting, and yesterday the taxis was employed severely, but without relief and the symptoms continued up to the period of her admission, when she was imme- diately put in the warm bath, which produced complete prostration, and attempts at reduction were made, but without success. F In the evening I saw her, and she had then recovered the effects of the bath but she 3"? T°mltog steriaCTS, mitter» had continual eructations, and hiccough, which had been through the whole day, otherwise she was tranquil, and her countenance cheerful. The belly was tender, but not much distended. frot/u’ge °b-0ng t“m°ur,extended from the pubic spine'to within an inch of the upper front iliac spine, about three fingers m breadth, covering Poupart’s ligament ^uid hiTafd tbeaPvaraUCe -°f “ enlarSed mass of inguinal glands, very firm and unyield! mg, and the skin covering it very livid, from the previous severe handling. A second seDaratpcl°5cupl^ l’le Place of femoral rupture, not exceeding the size of a walnut Sate™-°m the f<,)rme!' by the crease of the groin, and rather nearer the pubes than fl, *■ blS i Seem,ed Wltl!?ut doubt a femoral rupture, and gave a sense of indistinct tc ua ion 7 fhe swelllng on the groin was pressed. I was in much doubt of the character of the larger swelling, whether it were a mass of enlarged elands further rupture b{.the handling, or whether an encysted As the swe’llb'f1017 DOr Situfti0n led t0 the iatter supposition, violent or S° severely mauled, I thought it best not to make any heranoDeratLmwhiieh°rtS t0 ret,U1'n th® ruPture> and, not succeeding, proposed to throughout ftTiSZ’iSr♦’ "VT n0t C°nSent- The ^mptoius continuing to submit and after l l becoming anxious, she was at last persuaded Sent 24t consultation with my colleague Green, on the following day- femoral r„’nh,re 1 Pr°^eded to operate on the smaller tumour, in the same way8as for escaped • a portion1 of unusaa occurred except that, on opening the sac, no fluid could be found. I then passed algeas a 'v'alnat’ turned out, but no intestine J; •ttssstzsnsst Tga. 4" B^****w~. «*<• p- «-*.