[ 974 ] I.—OF EXCISION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. (.Excisio Scapulo-humeralis, Lat.; Ausrottung im Schultergelenke, Germ.; Resection Scapulo-h umerale, Fr.) 2833. The most important proceeding in excision of the head of the- upper-arm-bnne is to form an upper flap, as in La Faye’s exarticulation,. (par. 2810.) to divide the connexions of the joint, to lift out the head of: the arm-bone, and whilst a wooden spatula is passed beneath it for the pro- tection of the soft parts, to saw it off. When the bleeding vessels have, been tied, the sawn surface of the bone must be brought near the lower: edge of the glenoid cavity, the flap laid down and fixed with sutures- and strips of plaster, covered with lint and compresses, and the arm. kept in proper position, by means of such bandages as Desault has de- scribed for fractured collar-bone. The after-treatment must be con- ducted in the same way as that of amputation, and bagging of pus must: be especially prevented. C. White, Orred and others, operated with a longitudinal cut from the socket of the: shoulder-joint down to the insertion of the m. deltoides, and then having divided the tendon of the longhead of the m. biceps, lifted out the head of the bone and sawed if off. This method seems most preferable in all cases where only fragments of the crushed head are to be removed. In chronic affections of the joint it must be presumed 1 that dislocation of the head of the bone is easy under particular circumstances, that t the ligaments are not very thick, and the like. Bent formed a flap from the outside of the joint by one vertical and two horizontal 1 cuts, running outwards from it. Sabatier made a V flap from the deltoid muscle. Moreau thrusts in a scalpel, at the most prominent part of the coracoid process, to the bone, and cuts the skin and deltoid muscle directly downwards to the length of three inches; next makes another cut parallel to it, beginning from the back part of the: lower edge of the acromion, then connects both with a transverse cut across the acromion,. separates the flap and turns it down. The tendons and capsular ligament are now divided, the head of the bone lifted out, a long pad introduced between it and the soft t parts, and then the head is sawn off. If the caries affect the glenoid cavity and the acromion, Moreau lengthens the front cut over the outer end of the collar-bone and l the hind one to the spine of the blade-bone; separates this new flap, removes the carious part with the bone-shears or the chisel, and then fixes the upper to the under flap. Especial care must be taken that as much as possible of the capsular ligament should be cut off to prevent inflammation and profuse suppuration. 1 Syme makes a vertical cut from the acromion through the middle of the deltoid muscle, nearly to its attachment, then a shorter one from the lower edge of the former upwards and backwards, so that the outer part of the muscle is cut through After tins flap has been dissected up, the joint comes in sight, and when the capsular ligament, it existing, has been divided, the Surgeon passes his finger around the head of the bone, so that he may feel the attachments of the in. supra-spinatus, infraspinatus, and subsca- pularis, which he easily cuts through by turning the knife first towards one and then to the other side. The movements of the arm should be prevented, to guard against irritation and displacement, and the latter by putting a pad in the armpit 2834. After this operation the motion of the arm may remain under various circumstances:—-first, the upper end of the remaining part of the upper-arm-bone may be drawn back to the glenoid cavity; second, it may be drawn from the outer edge of the blade-bone to the trunk; or, third, separated from it, may remain isolated in the soft parts. In the first case, a new perfectly free joint takes the place of the old one; in the second, an imperfect joint is formed without much motion ; and in the third, the lever of the arm remains without any fulcrum, which, however, does not offer any obstacle to the direction and freedom of the movements pre- served (a). 31.—Textor, Ueber das Absligen des oberen Endes des Humerus; “ (a) Morf.ao, above cited, p Neue Chiron, vol. I. part iii.