CUTTING FOR THE STONE; (4) Royer, above cited, p. 435. part iv. fi')2 ing that nothing remains behind. If the stone break when it lias bol brought into the outer wound, it must be pressed out by the left fo finger in the rectum. 2102. When the operation is finished the pcrinccum must be clean-i the patient freed from the ligatures, and several turns of a bandage pass round above and below the knees, to keep the thighs together. He m be kept in bed, lying on one or other side, or on his back, with the thig. drawn up and the knees supported. A moist sponge is applied to t wound, and oiled silk or folded cloths laid to prevent the fouling of 1 bed by the urine which flows out. 2103. The accidents, besides those already mentioned, in the extracti of the stone which may occur during the operation and require partieuli treatment are, bleeding, injury or prolapse of the rectum, convulsions, a fainting. 2104. Bleeding may happen from the superficial perinseal artery or branches, from the transverse perinseal arteiy, from the inferior or fro' the internal hsemorrhoidal artery, from the internal pudic artery, fro wounding the bulb of the penis, and from the posterior or inferior vesici arteries. The branches of the superficial perinaeal artery can only produce ; alarming bleeding in those cases where it is unnaturally large. Tr transverse perinaeal artery lies so near the ramus ischii that it canni easily be wounded, if the cut be made at the proper height {par. 2078' The inferior hsemorrhoidal artery is sometimes injured when it is farthr forwards than usual, or the cut is continued beyond the line from tfc anus to the ischial tuberosity. The branches of the internal haemorrhoids artery spreading between the neck of the bladder and the rectum ma, bleed. The internal pudic is wounded when the cut is made too far t the side. The vesical arteries may be wounded if the prostate be core.' pletely cut through, and the body of the bladder itself cut into. The bleeding from the superficial vessels of the perinceum may b stanched by tying them; but that from the deeper vessels requires col applications, and if these be insufficient, compression must be made with a silver or elastic tube, open on both sides, and with a linen bag attached tt its front part (canule a chemise.) The front end having been pushed inti the bladder, lint is passed between the tube and the linen bag, till suffl cient pressure is made on every part of the wound, and the other end o the tube is fastened externally with a T bandage. Erard (1), Dupcy tuen (2), and von Graefe (3), have recommended particular compres- sors for this purpose. The injury of the internal pudic artery may cause so considerable bleeding that the extraction of the stone must be deferred ; pressure, in the way prescribed, will, however, always be successful in stanching the bleeding. It has been also advised to keep up pressure with the finger by relays of assistants, or to tie the artery by means of a particular kind of needle (a), or with Deschamp’s (h) artery-needle. According to my own experience, however, the continued and efficient application of cold is the best mode of stanching bleeding after cutting for the stone; I have succeeded with it when pressure had been used in vain (c). (n) Zano, Operationen, vol. iii. pl. ii. f. 5. (c) Heidelberg klinisch. Annalen, vol. n* I