V.'HE LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE KNIFE (LANGENBECK’S.) 589 . 0f the beaked knife into the groove of the staff, you then take the handle of f lie staff into the left hand, depressing it at the same time. You depress your right .;!‘nd a|go s0 that the handle of the knife, which you hold m it, lies in the lower part * the external wound. You are now to push the knife along the groove of the staff iito the bladder, with its cutting edge inclined outwards, and a little downwards Awards the ramus of the ischium, if you use a single-edged knife; but holding it hori- zontally if you use one with a double edge. Let this be done slowly and cautiously, ■> king care that you do not lose the feeling of the beak sliding over the smooth surface V - the staff for a single instant. Generally, as the knife enters the bladder, a few drops ! v- urine escape, but never any large quantity. This being accomplished, you are to Withdraw the knife along the groove of the staff in the same line in which you intro- i iced it. Never cut with it laterally, except you find it afterwards absolutely necessary ill do so on account of the large size of the stone; for in cutting laterally, you will find JV* difficult to measure exactly the extent of your incision ; and you may endanger your ILtient’s life in consequence of your dividing the parts beyond the boundaries of the 1,.-estate. The next step of the operation is to introduce your finger, directed by the ii raff, into the bladder, so that you may feel the parts which are divided, and determine ■i ?,hether the incision is properly made. If you operate on a child, or on a young and -•jiiin person, you may then at once introduce the forceps into the bladder. But if you -tierate on a full-grown person, and especially on one having a deep perinceum, it will Afe prudent for you first to introduce the blunt gorget previously to using the forceps. . * * * The gorget is intended to answer the purpose of a director for the forceps, ps ut it answers another purpose also; it is a dilator of the wound—the knife divides t ply a portion of the prostate. The gorget splits the remainder as far as its breadth i lows it to do so. Do not for an instant suppose that this is any rude or violent pro- .£ -eding. It is far otherwise. The incision of the prostate having been begun by the d) aife, the extension of it by means of the blunt gorget is accomplished with the greatest ise. * * * You will ask why not make such a division of the parts by cutting terally with the knife ? Why prefer the dilatation of the wound by the blunt gorget ? jS [y answer is, that the separation of the parts with the latter instrument causes no ir smorrhage; and that it ceases as soon as it reaches the margin of the prostate; that > , as soon as it reaches the condensed cellular membrane, which forms what may be filled its capsule.” (p. 111-15.)] d 2081. Langenbeck’s knife (a) is specially distinguished by its point saving a cover or guard, by means of which he passes it more readily fl*id safely along the groove of the staff. It is used in the following T'. tianner:—When the membranous part of the urethra is laid bare, the nail f the left forefinger is placed in the groove of the staff, and directed by it, ie point of the lithotome perforates, the parts still covering the staff; I to] fal ie right hand holding the stem of the lithotome, inclines it towards the tight Thigh, so that its point forms a right angle with the beak of the staff, rfipe handle of which is held inclined towards the right groin, and with its H later edge a little downwards. The point of the knife is now carried a d ttle forwards in the groove of the staff, for the purpose of enlarging the icjpening, and moved up and down in the groove, in order to open it satisfac- ■ wily. The hand of the assistant, and with it the handle of the staff, is then ■rasped with the left hand and raised so as to bring its concavity against the tabic arch : whilst this is doing the point cover is pushed forwards, the obndle of the lithotome being firmly pressed against the palm of the hand the ring, middle, and little fingers, the point of the forefinger carried jf°m the back to the side, and the thumb on the back of the instrument, that the latter lies fixed behind the button of the point cover, and, as it ; straightened, thrusts the cover forwards; the knife is then moved up • lid down to ascertain that it is actually in the groove of the staff. The thotome then, with its edge towards the extremity of the cut in the skin, f thrust along the staff to its blind extremity, in doing which the point of &LUebe,r ejne ci”fac1ic und slcliere Methode des Steinschnittes. Wiirzb., 1802. His alteration of the tome is found in the Neue liibliothek fiirdie Chirurgie und Ophthnlmologie, vol. i. p. 429, f. 1.