656 BRONCHOCELE, PROGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF. (4) Dr. Robertson indeed says:—“There are many reasons to induce us to rega: 3 goitre as a particular variety of scrofula ; in this country (England) it is only seen highly scrofulous constitutions.” As to the differences between scrofula and brod chocele stated by Postiglione (a), M'Clellan denies that the latter should 1 i considered a merely local disease, or that it begins at a later period than scrofula ai i does not spontaneously disappear ; but he admits that scrofulous glands often suppurat whilst bronchocele rarely undergoes this change, which he considers the only re- i distinction between the two. From “ the consideration of the predisposing cause - however, he observes, we are led to the conclusion “ that the same inherent diathesv i that under certain circumstances gives rise to scrofula, would, under exposure to the excitittj cause of goitre, occasion that peculiar form of disease.” (pp. 339, 40.)] 2171. The size, duration, and nature of the disease, must be taken int the account as regards the prognosis in bronchocele. Small lymphati bronchoceles in persons under twenty-four years of age are common! soon cured. But the cure is more tedious if the swelling be larger an firmer and in older people. In large bronchoceles both internal an. external employment of medicinal remedies are frequently useless, an a decidedly operative treatment must be employed to get rid of the swell ing entirely, or at least to diminish it to such degree that the patient sufferings may be bearable. The carcinomatous degeneration of th: thyroid gland is incurable. In rare cases, bronchocele, when consequen on severe violence, cold and the like, may be attacked with more or les violent inflammation (Thyreophyma acutuni) of Frank (&), in whici case, with pain, increased heat, and sometimes with redness of the bron chocele, its tension and size quickly and considerably increase ; the arterie of the neck pulsate strongly, the veins swell, there is difficulty in breathin' and swallowing, determination to the head, redness and puffin ess of fin face, and frequently considerable fever. This inflammation may rur to suppuration; the bronchocele may be completely or in great par destroyed ; the collected pus, if the abscess be not opened in prope. time may produce, by burrowing, considerable destruction of the neigh, bouring parts, may eat away even the air-tube itself and empty inlt it (c)- 2172. The treatment of bronchocele must vary according to the natun of the swelling, as the remedies applicable to one form of the pomplaint are of no use in another. 2173. In vascular bronchocele, the further growth of the tumour cai alone be prevented and its diminution effected, at the very first, by general and local blood-letting, by the patient at the same time keeping perfectly quiet; by the continued employment of cold applications, and the internal use of digitalis, and by carefully avoiding every exertion ; at least, I hav« in two cases followed this practice with success. If the vascular bron chocele have already attained considerable size, nothing is of any service, and the proper remedy for diminishing, if not of perfectly getting r« of the swelling, by which the inconveniences it causes are al«i removed, consists in tying the superior thyroideal artery, by which t < thyroid gland is deprived of the greatest quantity of the blood which flow into it. (а) Memoria Patologico-practica sulla Natura di (307.7.0. Firerwe, 1811. I'.’mo. (б) lie curandia liomimim morbis Epitome, lib. vi pars ii. p. lxxx. — Hupkokn, Hiss, sistens Animadversioncs de aflectionibus inflammatoriis Glandular Tliyroide®. Gotting®, 1823. (c) Bait.i.ik, Matthew, M.D., * ®*7jilns , igravinirs, with Explanations, intended tie the Morbid Anatomy of some of the^o* . iportant parts of the Human Uouy* lition. London, 1812. *Jto.