948 PARTIAL EXARTICULATION OF TARSAL BONES. them. As this is done the whole foot is drawn more downwards, and th< 11 lio-aments between the heel- and cuboid-bones divided. rl he front of tlh ■' foot is now much pressed down, a large amputating knife entered into tbefl joint and the inner being held a little higher than the outer edge of the foot ■ carried down with the edge close to the plantar surface of the metatarsa.jj bones cutting the flap obliquely downwards at their junction with the | phalanges of the toes. In this way a flap is formed of proper length with || out any measuring being required. . 1 ; 2782 After tying the vessels and cleansing the wound, the nap i brought over the joint surfaces of the astragalus and heel-bone, so that it. edee°may be properly applied to that of the upper cut, and in this positioi it is to be fixed with sticking plaster passing from the sole over th instep and from the one side of the flap to the other. Four compressor are then to be fastened with a circular bandage on the four sides of th stump, of which two are cleft, so that one cleft and one not cleft ar opposite each other. The wound is now to be covered with a pledge and lint the uncleft compress passed through the cleft one, drawn togetha diagonally and its ends fastened by some turns of the circular bandage. 9783 If an upper and under flap be formed, the joint having beex ,. — cut is made on the of,oro ' determined as above mentioned, one inner edge oetermmeu as urcu“u“,'“, — —. , , , w ,, the foot from the projection on the navicular bone, and a second on th outer side, beginning from the junction of the heel and cuboid bone; an the length of these cuts is to be from two to three fingers breadtl according as the lower flap is formed larger or smaller. The lower enc of the side cuts are to be connected by a transverse one across the mstej and thus the flaps are to be separated together with all the tendons an muscles from the bones up to the beginning of the side cuts, and turnc back The prominence of the navicular bone is now again felt for, th foot grasped, as in the former case, with the left hand, and at the edge ( the turned-back skin, close behind the projection of the navicular bon, the connexion between it and the astragalus is cut through, and the whilst the front of the foot is much pressed down, the connexion bet wee the cuboid and the heel-bone is also cut through, I he under flap is >e formed with the large amputating knife in the way directed m t le above-mentioned indication of the joint be properly followed, it. cannot be we- nexions betw^.mhrLvR^bont knife frequently enterss b«Mr |L^e°sf 3 mistake is soon discovered by the joint-surfaces of the cuneiform bones, an f obstacle which the cuboid offers to its complete separation. ,] M»tncault (a) beams the operation by forming the under tlap. cutting ,.jj | tough ligaments on the plantar surface, and completing the operation by dividing parts on the instep. . 9^84 Langenbeck, Klein, and Richerand consider the wnnan nf an upper flap useless, because the higher the scar is with a single i J1 flip less injury is it exposed to, and because this flap on account o n, 3f„Z2 more fit for coving the wound. Some confer th. f. ?aap should merely be formed by dissecting back the skm, SESto v££=£ or however, pro/ed to me that by the formation (n) Bulletin ties Sciences Medicales. Nov., 1829; p. 60.