THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. 442 strings in front. The patient is then so placed in bed that the lower ang] of the wound may, as far as possible, be the most depending part. [In a case operated on by Goijkfroy of Mayence (a), after the womb had contracted i the edges of the wound did not come together, but a considerable space remained h tween them; he therefore passed some sutures of waxed double threads, with a needld a through the whole thickness of the womb. The wound in the wall of the belly was als 3 brought together by passing the needle through its whole thickness, and also throug ;i the peritonceum. On the eleventh day, the union of the wound appearing firm, th u sutures were removed. On the twenty-ninth day no trace of suppuration remained, an t the patient left her bed.- She recovered, and her child had been saved. Objection - 8 have been made by Desormeaux to sewing up the womb, but Godfroy thinks thei ‘ danger is exaggerated. “ The most dangerous circumstance in this (Caesarean) operation is,” observes Mr: it chaelis, “ the impossibility of preventing completely the effusion of the secretion fror- >■ ■; the wound into the belly. The choice of the seat of the operation, as nearly as possibl sjf parallel to the white line, seems to be always the most important point, for there mos i rarely do the two wounds separate from each other. I have already mentioned, i: ll another case (6), the remarkable circumstance that the wound in the womb lies tranv il versely, and sinks to the lowest angle of the wound in the wall of the belly; and ii fl other instances I have observed still more remarkable varieties in the wound and it -ij fatal consequences. It may be hoped that this more frequent separation would not b I so injurious, as the secretion of the wound discharges itself through the mouth of tin 'i womb and the vagina. The form which the wound assumes in consequence of the ft contraction of the womb is, however, unfavourable for this escape; it gapes externally!’* and lies close together within. Thus was it in my case, in which the whole wound ii o the womb remained long open, and was in general supported by purely mechanics .j means. But when the after-pains very soon subside the womb may so close, in conse- J quence of general turgescence, before the oncoming of suppuration, that the cure it j: quick and without suppuration. It is therefore important that the after-pains shoulc i be very early put a stop to, if possible, by the moderate, or even the more active use a d opium.” (p. 24.)] 1840. The after-treatment must be the same as that generally laid down v for large wounds of the belly, the state of the patient in regard to hei puerperal condition being borne in mind (c). The dressings must be I replaced when the secretion from the wound has penetrated through, or ii n there be any strangulation of the intestines or omentum. The removal ol i the sutures, if not previously required on account of inflammation, should a not be before the eighth or tenth day, first indeed, the upper, and after- 1 wards the lower ones. The vagina and mouth of the womb should be I examined every day, and every thing removed which can interfere with the lochial discharge. When scarring begins, a well-closing belly-band must ! be employed to prevent abdominal rupture, and all exertion avoided. [Michaelis observes, in regard to opium:—“ The employment of opium, at first in I large, and afterwards in small doses, I consider the most important remedy for the pur- pose of guarding the nervous system before it become affected by so great an injury as the operation, for moderating the pain and for diminishing reaction.” And as to the j necessity of keeping the bowels freely open, he says, that ‘‘ his own experience,® his observation of other cases, have disposed him to it; that there is scarcely a Amy I described successful case in which the relief of the bowels has not been frequent, ind®fa j where there lias not been severe diarrlura. Adametz had the bowels moved on t ® j last occasion, from the third to the twentieth day, almost daily six times, and on fourth day nineteen times; that this was excessive 1 will not deny; the inconvenience, I however, was trifling, and, indeed, had there not been on the fourth day so great a > charge she would have been with difficulty saved. It is, however, difficult to cnec ^ -1 relief at the proper time with the usual means. I believe, however, that we haw: I ice the safest and, in other respects, the most proper remedy; it at once ope quickly as a purgative if some doses of calomel be given with it.” (pp- 25, 6.)] I 1841. The following special proposals to diminish the danger of e rav Gazette Medicate, vol. viii. p. 444. 1840. (6) Pfaff ; Mittheilungen, vol. ii. P- ll9‘ v ' (c) Upon the after-treatment, see Graefk.