783 CANCER OF THE BREAST. its close connexion with the carotid artery is suspected, that vessel may be tied some weeks before the extirpation, which will then be performed with greater safety. In many tumours of the parotid, the ligature of the artery will indeed cause, by the diminution of the flow of blood, such {decrease of the size of the swelling as to render its removal super- fluous (a). The previously tying the carotid artery, which was performed by Goodlao (6), does not ensure against bleeding, which quickly follows, from the numerous anastomoses and the quickly-restored collateral circulation. Thence Langenbeck’s (e) advice, when, on account of the expansion of the vessels, or the firm connexion of the tumour, it is scarcely possible to avoid injuring the artery, first, to lay bare the artery, and include it in a ligature, which must be tightened if the vessel be injured, or the bleeding from its branches be great. I have, however, in one (case, where the carotid was closely connected with the swelling, avoided wounding it in the total removal of the tumour, by which the vessel was so perfectly exposed in the wound that I could raise it with my fingers, and in case of having wounded it, could have easily applied a ligature. 2439. If, during the removal of the parotid gland, the carotid artery he wounded, it must be attempted to seize it with a hook, and tie it; but if this be not possible, the bleeding may, perhaps, be stanched by pressure with the fingers, or by plugging, which, at least, has been done on one case of wounded facial carotid with success (d) ; or the wounded part of the artery may be compressed, and the common trunk of the carotid artery tied at once. 2440. After the extirpation is completed, the wound must be properly brought together, the ends of the ligatures carried out in the shortest direction, the edges of the wound carefully closed with sticking plaster, and the patient put to bed with his head a little raised, and inclined to >the diseased side. The accidents which may occur after the operation, as severe inflammation, nervous symptoms, after bleeding, and the like, squire the ordinary treatment. , : -{,haye> UP t0 the present time, performed eight extirpations of the parotid gland, V mnout any untoward accident resulting from the operation. t. Cases of extirpation of the parotid gland are related by tt Piuegek ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. ii. p. 454; and in > Justs Magazin, vol. xix. p. 303. ’ st Berendts; in the same, vol. xiii. p. 159. t* Schmidt; in the same, p. 312. i' Weinhold ; in Salzburger Medic.-Chirurg. Zeitung, vol. iv. p. 03. ' RD > in Archives Gdnerales de Medecine. 1824, vol. iv. p. 62. r: Chelius ; in Heidelb. klin. Annalen, vol. ii. p. ii. ■ IcCj-ellan, G.; in American Medical Review and Journal. 1820. 1823. U D.—OF CANCER OF THE BREAST. to^O.L ’ Dlssert‘ de °Ptima Cancrum Mammarum exstirpandi Ratione. •thodo.’ ^Tr^S iulFHhenIE i’7o^*SSert’ ^ancro Mammarum eumque novo exstirpandi .fcp) Metl.-Chir „ 1 •• CC Kyll, above cited, p. 18. 5 Bibliothok, vol. i/p.^Oo!' P’ P~* 1816‘ v Y» Memoircs do Cliirurgic Militaire,