787 CANCER OF THE BREAST. 3 e 2 ft The scirrhus quickly enlarges, with additional redness and increase of pain; the countenance assumes a painful, anxious expression, and the skin a pale-yellow appearance; and great feebleness and depression ensue. The larger lumps in the skin become black, burst, discharge a little blood and afterwards serum. Unawares the surface sloughs to a great extent5 and the breast is deeply hollowed by an irregular ulcer filled with black sloughs, its edges raised and beset with lumps, which burst, discharge slough, and form deep, foul ulcers. The ulceration spreads by the slough- ing ot these tubercles, and spreads incessantly, farther and farther. That kind of breast-cancer is considered chronic, which is dry and hard as cartilage; when it has acquired a certain size, it crumples together, so that the swelling presents different clefts from the skin being drawn in and wrinkled, in which the retracted nipple is completely hidden. It is specially observed in old, shrivelled women, with dry, tense fibre. Some- times these scirrki open by superficial ulceration, which closes again with a scar (a). The pain is not very great, and the disease may exist for many years without making any great progress. ailIn ma"y1Cafs of seirrhous tumours of the breast, the skin,” observes Brodie “ k wS tL rrkedi1D’ °T t,h-6 tumour’ so as t0 Produce the appearance of a dimple in it here this dimple in the skin exists, you may be almost sure that there is -i s^irrlm ' uniour in the breast beneath it, and on examination you will feel it with the firmer * ** east, but that the skin is already contaminated.” (pp. 197, 198.)] 2448. The interior of scirrhus of the breast is the same as that alreadv generally mentioned. When cut into, it shows an exceedingly hard snh sinfik’ fr°m t ie midst Which White streaks radiate, between these and J connecting streaks, by wldch a fan or net-like tissue is formed ™g :!epflted be/ween them a soft, lard-like substance; in many in nces the tumour forms a large, lardy mass, in which the white streaks spreiTimlpTk intr 7 W,an!ing7 and do not’ as in the former instance -pi . . fimtely beyond the boundary of the swelling (par 23Q=> \ a?0" °f **? -hifo streaks to the tumour is elcSgly ^ Eon ,nkgrnn thGy ftretch much bey°nd tbe irregular hard lLps in inmorhint ?* externa%- Tbe retraction of the nipple here affbids ;i,e centre nf character ; it is produced by the streaks which originate in fn the « 116 amP’ and spread between the milk-tubes of the ninnle lie same way these streaks stretch beyond the bounds nf iP ei "to the surrounding cellular tissue (/,). * ^ °f the Sland v 1 iich'fron^cancer^T°ideVf°ped in the breast, the distinction of 'ever practitionerand 3hltances’exce:ssif difficult to the most liose successfBensU in P °“ ?uch mistake in the diagnosis rest ■een effected bv the ns 1 * f'' T* ^ diversion of presumed scirrhus has re, « y T USe ^ internal and external remedies. Such tumours ^ an?p™ful swdlin* °fthe ^Alari itseV i ! 6 breast t°, the arm-pit J or swelling of the Helling TC , -TenCe °f Chr°nic inflammation ; or continued r v KZfi l mfla™matlon and suppuration. /3, Milk knots P y, Scrofulous swelhngs. h, Herpetic and Psoric affections, (a) Dictionn. des Sciences Mcdicales, vol. iii n nsr. W Charles Hell, above cited, pi. Jif iii. P- ^