THE LATERAL OPERATION (CHESELDEN’S.) 587 one moment _< assing in of the gorget, the bladder does not contract but collapse into i |,,akes it ditficult to lay hold of the stone without hurting the bladder, but i i! is contracted, it is so easy to lay hold of it, that I have never been delayed ( unless the stone was very small, (pp. 330, 31.) ■ Douglas also gives an account of the dissection of the parts concerned in this opera- ‘ tion, w'hich, he says, “I have had several good opportunities of examining in dead 1 subjects, upon which Mr. Cheselden was so kind as, at my request, to perform his 5 operation. I once likewise opened the body of a patient who had been cut by him for «* the stone, in which I found the parts divided in the very same manner in which they K. /I onn Vvnnioc T nnrl niccnnfnn f I 'V* nr. L r. n„lr. A . ;;subcutaneous portion of the sphincter »»i, uevemn, ue uiviues in a pretty oblique direction, a large portion of the levator ani that lies on the inside of the liga- mentum pubis transversum, &c.” These are some of the principal parts; but as Mr. Cheselden does not always make his outward wound precisely in the same place,” rhey need not be further noticed. “ The internal wound is through the bladder, pros- tate gland, and urethra. First, The vesica urinaria, covered with the membrana cellu- 'aris is cut in two places, viz., first, a small portion of it a little above the prostate gland • in the left side, where he enters the knife first into the groove of his staff, and then part if the bladder which lies round the orifice upon the upper part of that gland ; second, •he substance of one-half of the prostate gland is likewise divided laterally from with- out, inwards, in the direction of the urethra that lies within it, through the whole length if that part of the canal; third, the iter urince, or canal of the urethra, is divided in two ilaces, and both laterally: first, the beginning of it, which runs through the substance if the prostate lengthways, at the same time the incision is made through it, and the irethra into the groove of the staff. The next is the membranous part of the urethra, $ rith the circular muscle that surrounds it beginning at the apex inferior of the prostate i tnd ending a little beyond the hole in the septum tendineum, under the pendulous part of j * * To this short enumeration of the parts, one observation may be lidded, which is, that if the operator turns the edge of his knife too far backwards, and |hen raises it to cut, he can scarcely be able to avoid wounding the intestinum rectum iretty high, some part of the vesiculce seminules next the prostate, and the verum mon- anum within the urethra that runs through that gland, together with a large portion of Jj („ ™at°r anterior and of the ligamentum suspensorium vesicce, that closely embrace The celebrated Martinead, of Norwich, followed pretty nearly Cheselden’s Operation of 1730, using the knife and blunt-beaked gorget, the latter being em- y toyed, to use Crosse’s words, “as a conductor, and also as a dilator of the bladder.” | f/. V’'\ Martineau (a), describing his own operation, says he used “ a staff in if,,.1? , #* F°°^ T? Tch Wldel: and deeper than usual, and therefore more easily 1 ;hik V, m^de his first incision long, deep, and nearly in a line with the raphe ghich, he thought, facilitated the cure ; he then felt for the groove, and introduced^the fc omtof the knife into it as low down as he could, and cut the membraLus part of die con‘luulng his k™fe through the prostate into the bladder; whenfinstead of Rnlarglllg the WOUTld downwurdc orw-1 fV»ne /I : xi_ _ ■» . ■I,* ° : > uverauu over again. Winch Often ( OPS En n, lLbU 0311 glV,e 110 adv,a.ntaSe over the two incisions, which he generally depended t± r ? *n 7e,T lar.ee subjects, where a little further dissecting may be readied f ghfc°SSe Stl ni A‘S left hand’ whilst he introduced the blunt gorget with his ! | l’t, d,by ‘f111,8 taking the management of the staff and gorget into his own hands tHe an,d discovered at once if it were slipping from ?he groove .r,ladder On^h£TentHd by deP/ess,”S the gorget while it is pushing on towards the Suet “ ‘ n tfA A IF ?fte-U the,eaSU and success of ‘he operation. * * * After Btuafion of the stone width ’^f fonnd0^^ hlS finSer’ aijd endeavoured to feel the -creeps to lav hold of’it h! f found* '? a great advantage in the direction of the B found more ewt tfextract r«mnewha?y A tbaVtraight forceps, and it will small ones.” (p 409-11 ) wholc’ by rather large forceps, than with fiat >^follow[ng> CHEs^LDEN^methnll7 f *®.rno<?e of operating with the knife, and though ■11 (n) On Lithni ; d’ dlstlnct>y shows that even he occasionally cut as On Lithotomy; In Med.-Chlr.Trans., vol. xt. <» Ch.rurgical Observations and Cases, vol. ii. London, 1772. 8vo.