KINDS OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 695 » >n the suppurative inflammation as those which are superficial; * * * for we find that -xtraneous bodies are in general capable of producing inflammation; but if these Mgxtraneous bodies are deeply seated, they may remain for years, without doing more >i han producing the adhesive inflammation, by which means they are inclosed in a cyst, ft'.tnd only give some uneasiness.”—(pp. 238, 39.) An example of this kind I recollect r j;-taving seen several years since. A medical student in Paris had, for want of better gym ploy men t, mixed himself up with some popular disturbance, to quell which the mili- 9"”ary were called in, and he received a wound in the buttock, which soon united, but left n ome uneasiness and a defined swelling. About three years after, I saw Dupuytren, f| }-t the Hotel Dieu, cut into this tumour, from which a quantity of glairy fluid escaped.; rod the finger being introduced into it, about an inch and a half of a sabre-point was bAelt and removed. But the lodgement of an extraneous body without producing suppu- $ n ation is not confined to deep-seated parts; for Hunter, very shortly after observing in 1 Regard to pins and needles, which, when having been introduced into the body, are well ■known, in general, not to produce suppuration, but either lie quietly in one place, or •o move over the body to an almost incredible distance from the point at which they had h entered:: that “ they owe their want of power in producing suppuration, not entirely sr jo situation, but an some degree to the nature of the substance, metals, perhaps, not gitaving the power of irritation beyond the adhesive; for when the adhesive has taken !i ilace, the part appears to be satisfiedhe continues, •“ this appears also to be the case with t3 she introduction of glass, even in the .superficial parts; a piece of glass shall enter the I kin, just deep enough to bury itself, inflammation shall come on, the wound in the skin, #3f brought together, shall heal by the first intention, and the inflammation shall not Kftxceed the adhesive, but rather degenerate into the disposition for forming a sack, by tvhich means a sack is formed round the glass, and no disturbance is given to the irrita- bility of the parts.”—(pp. 239,240.) Besides the example which Hunter mentions, in iroof of this latter statement, I may refer to the case of the tobacco-pipe in a man’s heek, which I have already mentioned (p. 380); and there is in the Museum of the i loyal College of Surgeons a portion of a glass mirror, which by a fall was driven into . girl’s breast, and there remained for many weeks, without exciting suppuration. .Iiese examples prove, and even from his own showing, that Hunter’s first statement, f “ deep-seated parts not so readily taking on the suppurative inflammation as those : ?hich are superficial,” is not borne out. Nor has it yet been explained, how it is that ■'feign bodies do become encysted, rather than set up suppurative inflammation, by 1 vhich, as under common circumstances, they are expelled from the body.—J. F. S.] 2249. Encysted tumours are distinguished according to the consistence nd nature of the substance contained in their cavity, as, first, Serous Cysts Cystes serosa, Hygroma, Lat.; serose Balggeschwidste, Germ.; Loupes 7-' ereuses ou aqueuses, Fr.) (1); second, Melicerous Tumours, (Meliceris, -'at.; Honiggeschwiilste, Germ. ; Loupes meliceriques, Fr.,) when the ontained substance is of the consistence of honey (.2) ; third, Atheroma- ous Tumours (Atheroma, Lat.; Breigescliwulste, Germ. ; Loupes athe.ro- nateuses, Fr.,) when it resembles pap (3). To these kinds of encysted 'umours Abernetiiy (a) adds a fourth, in which the cavity is filled with iail or horn-like substance, which, when the skin breaks hardens, and projecting, as the cyst continues to secrete, forms a horn-like growth (4). [(1) Simple serous cysts, on the exterior of the body, arc not of frequent occur- When existing in the neck they are commonly called “Hydroceles of the ?e™’” under which name they were first described by Maunoir (b), who mentions nat the disease had been confounded with bronchocelc, on account of its external cha- no A I ■ « WI1 UUVUllUll 0 1*1/ l/ORW Til, I.UIU II ? 1138 been supposed a rare and unusual form of bronchocelc.” (p. 95.) tnce been described by Dr. O’-Beirne (c) and by Bransby Cooper (r/), (*) Above cited, p. 113. W Memoires sur les Amputations, l’llvdrocele > oou, &c Geneve. Paris, 1825. The Memo- ai was read before the French Institut in 1815 : 1,1 ttle rePort upon it by Pkrcy was not favour- Cases have They com- (c) On Hydrocele of the Neck, with Cases and Observations; in Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, vol vi. p. 1. 1834. (</) Case of Hydrocele of the Neck cured by Setnn, with Observations ; in Guy’s Hospital Re- ports, vol. i. p. 103.