r 492 OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN DISEASE. end of six months the cyst burst, and the water subsided as before. The belly agai. filled, and at the end of four months and a half the cyst burst the third time, with lei 1 severe symptoms, and the patient recovered. Dr. Locock informs me, that he has a : present under his care, with Sir Benjamin Brodie, a female about fifty years of agi i in whom the ovarian cyst has burst several times. About a year and a half ago, Ion g before any tumour was discovered, she had about once in six weeks an attack of violer r abdominal spasms, of the same nature as those which have since clearly been connects g with the bursting of the cyst. These attacks became gradually more frequent, latterl s once in three weeks. The first discovery of the tumour was about six or seven room! 4 ago, a globular elastic tumour of the size of an orange ; but previous to this being fe i above the pubes, a very distinct elastic tumour was perceived by examination by th ' vagina. Suddenly spasms came on as before, and the tumour was gone, which le A Locock to think it was not an ovarian cyst, as he had previously called it, but only | collection of flatus in the bowel, as great eructations and general abdominal distensio - 4 always followed the attacks. After several repetitions of the rise of the tumour gn. * dually, the spasms, and the dispersion, it was noticed that the tumour became large and larger each attack. Then Brodie detected, after the dispersion, slight fluctuatio il in the abdominal cavity, which soon disappeared. The next time it filled, being the ;fi the size of a shaddock, they punctured it with a very fine trocar and drew off a fe\ ounces of brown fluid, exactly the same as usually found in ovarian cysts. After this • firm pressure was tried, for a week or two, over the tumour, but she could not bear th » pain it produced. Since this, the same alternate filling, bursting, spasms, and dis a appearance have returned at still shorter intervals, and recently her health has begir ; to fail. The extreme rarity of these favourable results, however, can scarcely be allowe i as argument against the operation. Cabius, from the inquiries he was led to in reference to his own case, has obtaiae X some very interesting conclusions: first, that in the rather great number of cases whic died immediately, or within a few days after the first bursting, the cyst had, previous t. ri its rupture, contained a purulent fluid, more or less altered, and not the usual seroir a Second, that others, after one or more burstings, ascites remained, though it was nc ; proved that the ascites and the dropsy of the ovary had not existed at the same time 'i Third, that most of the patients, who survived one or two burstings, were cured only fo ij a time, and at last sank under the progressive effects of the encysted dropsy, (p. 158.) - tj AsTley Cooper mentions two instances in which the ovarian cyst was burst by acci n dent; in the one, the patient was thrown out of a one-horse chaise, and the dise3s- seemed to have been cured, but it returned seven years after, and she was obliged to b a tapped: the other patient fell out of bed on the corner of a chair, she afterwards passe* large quantities of urine, but the disease returned, (p. 375.) But besides the very rar cure of ovarian dropsy by bursting into the general cavity of the belly, the eJ’® “? 1 very rarely bursts into the fallopian tube, and the water is discharged through » I womb. Astley Cooper mentions a case of this kind ; and also another m which 11 burst into the intestinal canal; and though the patient was subject to occasional return*■ of the disease, she ultimately recovered, (p. 385.) Sciimucker (a) also says, that in ‘ case, after the sixteenth tapping, the ovary became suddenly' extremely painful PJ night, and was followed by the discharge of a large quantity of very stinking ic 1 matter through the womb, which continued for some days, and then ceased. (P- Ijj 4 j Astley Cooper relates a remarkable instance, in which the navel ulceratefli^ large quantities of water were discharged for a considerable time, but ultimately cww*j and the disease did not return, (p. 384.) Similar to this, though the opening cial, is the case of a female of forty-three years of age, who was tapped for 0 dropsy by my friend Sutton, of Greenwich, in 1821, and three or four times alter, i uropsy ny my menu ouiiuw, ui uRcumuj, in .oil,...... ....oo o. .0-. a,.ter eacli occasion some hair passed through the canula, and at the last operation, mL . mined to lengthen the cut downwards, so as to empty all the hair, which he milieu to lenguieu ukui uii»..».iuS,»a, .... ....... , A portion of bougie was kept in by his direction for some months, when tin u e ceased; but the lady fearing the fluid might re-collect, continued the bougie wound’till her death, of apoplexy, in 1841. nniuions 0 In concluding this important subject, it will not be improper to give tne r ^ two able practitioners against and in favour of this operation, about which tne so much difficulty in deciding. . . ... , , .f which I hart Ash well (b) observes:—“ If the operation is to become established, ot h3. the strongest doubt, it must be confined to examples of the malady where PI been already so often performed as to preclude, from the experience ot .1 Chirurg. Wahrnehm.. vol. ii. Practical Treatise on the Diseases peculiar to W omen R44. bvo.