EXTIRPATION OF THE TESTICLE. 811 dies as promote absorption, the unnatural vegetative process may be kept down, or by tying the spermatic artery, the tumour may be diminished or its growth prevented. 2496. Extirpation of the testicle (Castratio, Lat.; Entmannunq, Germ.; hmascidcition, when both testicles are removed) is for the pa- tient a very painful and, in cancerous degeneration, as to its consequences a very doubtful operation, as recurrence of the disease is very common’ The expectation of a favourable result is greatest when the disease has been the consequence of external violence, is not connected with any general affection, and all the degeneration has been completely removed. It must be held to be contraindicated when there is any existing general disease, on which the disease of the testicle depends; when the neighbouring glands are swollen, and there is also disease of the spermatic cord, when the hard- ness extends so far up, that excision in a healthy part is not possible. If in such case there be also dragging pain extending up into the loins; if the swelling of die spermatic cord be hard, knotty, and the seat of lan- cinating pain. From this scirrhous degeneration of the spermatic cord which in rare cases may precede the swelling of the testicle, a simple bvTol bewT °f C°rd may be diytil,g'llished by its regularity, and hi 5, S -kn?bby’ and by diminishing towards the abdominal rimn A swell nt K IessemnS when the testicle is supported by a bag-truss! A swelling of the spermatic cord may also depend on serous infiltration conneLdTn ^h6" Wkh sarcocele swellings in the belly are as " , d V'hlcb °n closer examination can often be distinctly felt, -JSjStp"of cancero"s the <*«■*» neralK-^n6 swelJ*nS's which often form enormous masses in the belly, occur indeed bp ^UfZtorSfUn9US °f the teSdCle; 1 llaV6’ h0W6Ver’ -n Vm ra,snod??’tS cnfl97' F°n the P,]rP°se of rendering the removal of the testicle in «ar whTchhTh U0US’ 7ALTfER {h) HaS Pr°P°sed tying1 the spermatic artery hich has been performed successfully by Maunoir (c). This operation can however, only apply to those diseases of the testicle, in which a vZ Jious deposit of plastic lymPh into the cellular tissue of the testicle X :nnatural development of vessels and sarcomatoui degene > but no passage into cancerous degeneration «'»s rs (t,e throush the spe™a,ic c°rd icfe49i?' 'r!ing ,he ypermatic arte,-, in sarcomatous swelling of the tes- elt tl b j Uie PuIsatIon of the very much enlarged artery may be (6) Neue Heilart des Kropfes, u. s. w., p 40 Sulzbach, 1817. p (c) Nouvelle Metliode de trailer le Sarcocele sans avoir recoura a 1’Extirpation du Testicule Geneve, 1820. 8vo. (d) WEiNiioi.n; in Hufkland’s Journal vol viii. part iv. 1842.