UlUNAllY STONE, 516 produced from these organs. He considers the production of uric aciefl and urates, of oxalates, of cystic and xanthic oxides as very simila < f, and thinks that, according to the results of modern chemistry, by whicij * a quantity of organic substances may, by a peculiar treatment, be coi n verted into one another, the origin of these various concretions may 1 cleared up. Urea, of which the ultimate elements are 46,65 nitroge 19,97 carbon, 6,65 hydrogen, and 26,65 oxygen, (N4 C4 H4 O2,) is co verted into uric acid, when the proportions of nitrogen and hydrogc are diminished, and the quantity of carbon and oxygen increased, 33,i nitrogen, 36,00 carbon, 2,36 hydrogen, 28,27 oxygen (N4 Cs H40:i ;- If the proportions of nitrogen, carbon, and oxygen, remain as in ur- . acid, while the quantity of oxygen is diminished about one atom, ur; oxide (xanthic oxide, according to Marcet) is produced (N4 C5 II4 O ■ If the quantities of nitrogen and carbon be diminished, whilst tl 3 quantities of hydrogen and oxygen are relatively increased, cystLn (cystic oxide of Wollaston) is produced, 11,85 nitrogen, 29,88 carbo 5,12 hydrogen, 53,15 oxygen (N C3 Hc O1.) If, on the one ham nitrogen and hydrogen combine, and on the other, carbon and hi droo-en, in nearly the same proportions as the former exist in ur acid, and the latter in cystin, oxalic acid is produced, 33,99 carbo 53,33 oxygen. fCl'\ Sulphur forms an essential coustituent of cystic oxide; and Thaulow ( ascertained that it contained about 25 percent, of that element. The accuracy'! this statement has been confirmed by the analyses of two stones in the Museum • the Royal College of Surgeons (&). According to Thaulow, cystic oxide consist of carbon, 30,01; hydrogen, 5,10; nitrogen, 11,00; oxygen, 28,38; sulphur, 2j,d t and that it is represented by the formula CG H6 N.O.4 S .—T. T.] 1986. Jones assumes on Liebig’s principles, that uric acid is produci from tissues which afford albumen and gluten, {gelatine?) in consequent of a change of matter, and the effect of oxygen. That the uric acid converted by the influence of oxygen, into alloxan and urea ; that, a farther operation of the oxygen upon the alloxan the latter is eitli chano-ed into oxalic acid and urea, or into oxaluric and parabamc aci or into carbonic acid and urea; and that the quantity of uric acid whir is separated, alternates in inverse proportion to the quantity, which rj still further altered within the body, and with the amount of action • the oxygen. On these principles we may, perhaps, establish a goner, theory of the causes of lithogenesis as follows:—When the health o-ood, and the operation of the oxygen perfect, there is no deposit in tl urine ; if the oxygen act in a slighter degree, there is a deposit oxalate of lime ; if, in a still less degree, urate of ammonia, or ur acid, is formed. If the health be disturbed, or if the urine becoto^ alkaline, from the irritation which the stone produces, the phosphates a. * precipitated ; and if the effect of the oxygen be still further restrict* only an exceedingly small quantity of phosphoric acid is produced, an carbonate of lime is precipitated. 1987. For the proper explanation of the origin of stone, it seems mu convenient first to ascertain the origin of those substances which ato* are capable of forming the so-called nucleus of urinary stone, or of oet ■precipitated as gravel, as the deposit of various substances upon a sto ( (6) Taylor’s Catalogue, above cited, PMl p. 137. (a) Annalcn der Pharmacie, vol. xxvil. p. 200. 1838-