SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 243 [The operation of tying the subclavian artery above the collar-bone -was first attempted a • Astley Cooper in the spring of 1809, but “ the aneurysm was very large, and the lvicle was thrust upwards by the tumour, so as to make it impossible to pass a ligature 3 ider the artery, without incurring the risk of including some of the nerves of the j illary plexus. The attempt was therefore abandoned” (a). The operation was first ^ rformed in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, Nov. 2, 1809, by Ramsden (6), for axillary d eurysm about half the size of a large orange. He first made a transverse cut through n e skin upon the collar-bone, two and a half inches long, from the outer border of the trapezius, to within half an inch of the outer edge of the in. sterno-mastoideus ; and ?n pinching up the skin above the bone, he divided it, front within, outwards and up- rds, in the line of the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle lo the extent of two •hes. His object in pinching up the skin for the second cut “ was to expose at once superficial veins, and by dissecting them carefully from the cellular membrane, to ce them out of the way without wounding them.” (p. 282.) He then dissected with knife till he had brought into sight “ the anterior scalenus muscle immediately ow the angle which is formed by the traversing belly of the m. omo-hyoideus, and the ;e of the m. sterno-cleido-mcistoideus; and having placed his finger on the artery, at point where it presents itself between the scaleni, he found no difficulty in tracing it bout touching any of the nerves, to the lower edge of the upper rib, at which part he iched it with his finger-nail for the purpose of applying the ligature.” (p. 283.) rious kinds of instruments, fixed in handles, were essayed in vain to pass the ligature, I, ,was at last managed with a flexible probe, the end of which being introduced j d .e artery, was drawn out with the forceps, and the operation completed with a de ligature. The patient died after five days. The subclavian artery was next tied pair vv iLLiA.il Blizard, in 1811, in the London Hospital, but the patient died on the th day, by Thomas Blizard, in 1815, but death followed on the eighth day (c); le same year, by Dr. Colles, of Dublin, but the man died on the eighth day (d); nrst successful case was that of Dr. Post, of New York, who operated on Sept. 8, ; tbe aneurysmal tumour burst on the ninth day, and discharged above three ounces Hood; the ligature came away on the eighteenth day (e). The second successful case lasTON s, m which the operation was performed on April 3, 1820; the ligature ie away on the twelfth day (/). Since this time favourable results have frequently iwed ligature of the artery at this part, by English Surgeons, Gibbs of St. Peters- R„,xI'LE‘NV”f Lynn’ Wishart of Edinburgh, Green at St. Thomas’s, twice, Key ijransby Cooper, each at Guy’s Hospital, and Hobart of Cork. -men, inks operations, made a similar cut above the collar-bone, with its concavity ards, and the inner end higher than the outer; and, in the case referred to at paqe ' above Z JngU ar Vem waD he put two ligatures upon it, about an atove the collar-bone, and divided between them, which gave much additional . avoid the difficulty often experienced in passing the ligature round the artery, ■h AffiUSng 16 common aneurysmal needle, either with or without a handle, and S' rli , 7 apKear* t0 anse from the t0° great length of the curve of the needle button*hooT^d thT:i-\f",hich’ iD Size and ^P6’ Dearly resembled an ordi- i n ^ h thl® the ligature was readily passed round the vessel. 1 L nIag ? XT a/tery care should be taken that the ligature be not passed round one of the artery: this mistake occurred to both Liston and Green! I and excefie^ S°Z “ iT* ' An occurrence like this happening to such t the li^atVirc l SST rthe necessity of extreme caution before tight- rv as itcrn«wi th recoHect also having seen, on one occasion, the posterior scapular ■iforhril PaCe bfT;eT the sterno-mastoid and trapezial muscles, being mis- ,uickly a-""**5 454 If the aneurysm be situated in the subclavian artery itself tvina ; arer the tra°healside of the in. scalenus may, perhaps, give hope of 1 gerous and fr ?n h,owever’ always considered as extremely es the nrJ /aid°US’ lf,Jt b,e remembered with what important struc- iore it the kwer °enne^e?' The Pneum°-gastric and phrenic nerves lie I ’ the l0wer cervical ganglion and sympathetic nerves behind it; ) Cractionl 'o^^fon^on^he .1 Hoboson, above cited, p. 59G. l? wl>ich are added four Casesnf On'.'' <'.rocc'e’ W Kdin. Med. and Surg. Jomn.,vol. xi. p. ]. London, 1811 8vo °perat,0n for ' © Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ix. p. 185. P (/; Ldinb. Med. nnd Surg.Journ.,vol. xvi. p. 3-18. k 2