DIAGNOSIS OF SCIRRHUS AND MEDULLARY FUNGUS. 762 (n) Above cited. anti-syphilitic or anti-scrofulous treatment, as well also, as the circumstanc | that in cancerous sores, the pain is alone diminished by softening at soothing remedies, but increased by all irritants, will direct the prat titioner. Scarpa (a), who commonly applies the term scrofulous or strumous tumour to a gre' extent, and also refers to cases which must manifestly be reckoned with medullary funyu states the following, as distinguishing characters between it and scirrhus. Scrofula rare! attacks the external conglomerated, but usually the lymphatic glands, and in genera several of them at the same time, and in different parts of the body; there may be ab an existing scrofulous habit. The hardness of the scrofulous tumour is regular and fla and different from the peculiar hardness of scirrhus. The scrofulous tumour, from tl first, produces a wearing, numbing, heavy pain. Scirrhus only attacks persons «• advanced age, rigid fibre, and sanguineo-choleric temperament, in whom, if there l suspicion of a dyscrasy, it is not that of scrofula ; scirrhus appears alone, grows si owl; and scarcely perceptibly in every direction, is not sensitive, and when long existent, k in general, knots on the surface, and is adherent to the skin in many places. Whe stabbing pains come on in scirrhus, it no longer increases, indeed, even contracts, with hardness, from which it may he said, it is disposed to dryness. In injecting a st rumcm gland, the fluid at first passes freely, hut suddenly runs out, because the vessels are ton When cut through, such gland presents a compact very vascular substance, penetrate; with alhumiuous fluid, which sometimes, though rarely, is mixed with a fatty, granular or whey-like matter. Between the bodies of the strumous glands, and their externa covering, some trace of coagulable lymph is always found, which favours adhesion; br this is also often in the interior. In scirrhus, the injection penetrates only into th principal arterial trunks. In maceration, the substance of scirrhus retains the peculii hardness of softened cartilage, whilst strumous glands dissolve into a soft, fungous, fring; substance [The following are the diagnostic characters given by Hodgkin, of scirrhus am medullary fungus, or fungoid 'disease, as he calls the latter. “ One of the most striking features which distinguishes the fungoid disease from tru scirrhus, is to be found in the extent and rapidity of the development of fungoie tumours. Whilst, as has been seen, the true scirrhus often remains for a eonsiderabk length of time in a chronic and indolent state, and after a growth of some years produce a tumour of only a moderate size, the fungoid tumour in the space of a few weeks » sometimes seen to attain to a prodigious size, and to pass through all the stages belong to it in common with the other members of the same family of adventitiooi' structures. Whilst true scirrhus is almost exclusively the disease of advanced life, «>' fungoid disease makes its appearance in individuals of every age; but its most formi ; able and extensive ravages are seen in the young. Whilst in true scirrhus the matter forms a very inconsiderable and scarcely notable part ol the structure, *p fungoid tumour it is frequently pretty abundant, presents a great variety in its chara ters, and is often collected in cavities of considerable size. In the scirrhous turnon » peculiar mode of formation I have pointed out, must often be inferred bj a’1 t. guided by faint and partial traces; but in the fungoid disease we meet wi i unequivocal manifestations, which almost speak for themselves. In true setrr us,> traces of vascularity are very faint, but in the fungoid disease, tlm adventitious ^ branes possess a higher and preternatural degree of vascularity. 1 lie vessels see ramifying in them, are not only numerous, hut large. By some they have Ht ,; . sidered principally arterial; by others venous. I will not attempt to decide o^ class of vessels they are most allied. They appear to consist of the capiuary vc— ' Bichat on a large scale; and as we sometimes meet with these membranes ol a s and arterial red, and at other times of a venous or livid hue, it seems Jjrooa.)_ hjch accidental or fortuitous circumstances have the principal share in determining11 , class of vessels these capillaries should most incline. These newly-formed ^ though large and numerous, are extremely weak and tender, and derive support from the structure through which they ramify, or by which they art #nd hence they areliable to give way at numerous points, whence proceed more ireq the extensive hemorrhages which so often characterize these tumours, and have i term of fungus hamatodcs, which has not inaptly been applied to many ot wen. ^ ^ times the hemorrhage from these vessels produces an effusion ’f/ ’J ^aIld\listenc)s membrane reflected over an inferior order of pedunculated cysts or bodies, a if.