BLOOD-SWELLINGS ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. 454 rarely; so that the opening- is only the exception,and not as most writ r on this disease have laid down, to be taken as the rule. If the procesftji ossification have already begun, nothing must be done except leaving . 4 swelling entirely to itself, because after opening, the upper wall cam 3 on account of its firm nature, apply itself, and a tedious suppuration ij sues, as I have in one case witnessed. An early opening is equally objectionable, because in consequence of it there is 0 i a considerable escape of pale-red blood, whilst in a later made cut black blood is t! charged in no great quantity. The application of lunar caustic upon the swelling, and the keeping up suppura § after the separation of the slough for the purpose of favouring the dispersion of the • I mour, as recommended by Goelis (a), is on many grounds objectionable (b). 1860. Opening the swelling is best done with a lancet to such ext' j as to allow the blood to flow out freely. Some threads of fine 1 ;< must be placed between the edges of the wound, and fixed with stick;! plaster ; and over all a compress and close-fitting hood. For the £lj few days ordinarily a somewhat bloody, afterwards a yellowish serous, il at last a somewhat purulent fluid is discharged; but on renewing .1 dressings after a few days the integuments have generally become in so- degree united to the skull, and the cure soon follows. If, after rl opening of the swelling, the surface of the bone appear rough, the dress;-.; in this simple way must be employed. Opening the swelling by a crucial cut or throughout its whole length, is unnecess and improper; the introduction of a seton (Palletta) is objectionable. The sin: puncture of the swelling with the lancet, and closing the opening, may, if at the sf I time dispersing remedies and a compress be used, effect a cure. Should the fluid ►I lect again, the united edges of the wound may be easily separated with a probe, and il fluid having been discharged, the cure follows. When Dieffenbach observed, a ' small incisions, a secretion of ichor for several weeks, without the skin adhering in least, and after a free opening that a speedy cure ensued, and wheu von Ammos s ) poses that the blood-swellings more frequently heal artificially than by the natr- powers, the cut for assisting the discharge of the blood, the production of an adbeaj inflammation, or of a fresh natural activity, must be carried deep down to the peril nium, even into the diploe, and not merely through the whole extent of the swelh but into the sound parts of the neighbouring coverings of the head, inasmuch as sn cuts, which are rather punctures than cuts, produce venous bleeding from the vanrt vessels, difficult to be stanched, and which can only be stopped by a proper long £. deep cut. My own experience and that of others so completely contradicts this, t these bad consequences must certainly be ascribed more to some other circumstances^ the treatment, the time of the operation, and the like, rather than to the kind of openi Further, as regards von Ammon’s opinion, it may be observed that what I have alre«l sought to employ against Bubchakd, applies to it also. .1 Hoere (c) describes a case of a simultaneous collection of blood between the jw™| nium and the skull, and the dura mater and the skull, with which there was at the at spot a penetrating cleft of the bone. The internal swelling was as large as a P'P1’? egg, and had formed a pit in the brain of corresponding depth. The outer table Ov skull was unchanged, but the inner was eaten away, and at one place entirely winmw at one spot also production of bone seemed to have again begun. If Hoerf- suppc that the internal swelling had arisen first, and that by the changes of the bone• 1 sure had been depeudent on the birth, when the blood collected beneath the j had sunk down during birth, for which the destruction of the inner table spoke, jyyj this a merely voluntary assumption, and incorrectly has been founded upon 1]| ® ’ , of blood-swellings of the skull into internal and external, a division which « . I assumed, and added the collection of blood between the plates of the skull ,1S ])5 . form of these swellings, against the admission of which I have already given r (a) Saint). Med.-Chir. Zeitung, 1822. No. 81, vol. ii. Wien, 1819.—in Salih. jj „ 47,—Praktische Abhandlungen liber die vor- Cliir. Zeit., 1819. No.'-1, p. a-., ziicllchjten Krankheiten des kindliehen Alters, (b) ZiLi.KB, above cited. (c) Above cited.