420 RETENTION OF URINE, FROM INFLAMMATION ; in its coverings, and in the cellular tissue, connecting the lobes of the glam frequently several groups of abscesses form, and in this case the patie. generally sinks, some abscesses opening within, and others without, t abscesses burrow, and fistulous passages, and wasting suppuration ensue r« as pie abscess advances, the perinamm becomes tender,” says Brodie, “ and th< is a perceptible, though slight tumefaction and hardness in some one part of it T abscess if left to take its own course, sometimes bursts internally, that is, into t urethra-, more frequently, it makes its way through the fascia, cellular membrane, a muscles of the perinaum, and bursts through the external skin, (p 144.) Bbod however mentions a fatal instance of abscess in the prostate, in which the patient, alx thirty vears of age, voided his urine every twenty or thirty minutes, complaining of aching pain in the loins; but of no pain any where else. The urine deposited, small quantity of yellow puriform sediment. He said that the symptoms had beg two years ago, and that in the commencement of the disease, the urine had been ting with blood * * * About a month after his admission into the hospital, he was seized vr symptoms of apoplexy, and died in the course of a few hours. * * * An abscess oft size of a large walnut occupied the posterior part of the prostate, and extended into t snace between the bladder and vasa deferentia behind the neck of the bladder /n irregular ulcerated orifice was discovered behind the verumontanum, through vrhi the probe passed at once into the cavity of the abscess.” (p. 146.)] 1807. The treatment of retention of urine from inflammation of t prostate agrees precisely with that of inflammatory retention alreaa described (par. 1795); blood-letting, leeches about the anus, bath soothino- clysters, poultices to the perinaum and the like. If the How urine be not thereby effected, the catheter must be introduced, whici however, can never be done without difficulty and great pain ; becam the swollen gland alters the direction of the urethra, on which aecouv also a catheter with a long beak is required, and sometimes must have laro-e curve (1). If an abscess form in the prostate, the introduction of ti catheter is the only remedy; the abscess is either opened by it, in dou which care must be taken not to make a false passage, or it bursts of itse and the pus escapes with the urine (2). The catheter must remain in bladder till the urine be no longer mixed with pus. Desault {> recommends cleansing injections of barley water at the same time. rri) In reference to the enlargement of the prostate gland from acute mtlammatic. Lawrence (b) says :—“ You should avoid, if possible, the introduction.of'a catibe^ There is a pretty*actively inflamed substance against which, in its introduction,! point of the catheter will necessarily come, and through which it must pass monk r enter the bladder. The introduction of an instrument, under such circumsteuce^nu be exneeted to aggravate the sufferings of the patient at the time; and therefore, you STpTt ? selfto .1.0 iufi.mmu.ion, and enable him to make mater wuh«u employment of an instrument at all, it will be very desirable for you so to da T therefore to antiphlogistic means, with which fomentations, the use of the hip or bath mav be combined ; and do not have recourse to the use of an instrument, u these means fail, and there should be an actual necessity for relieving the pattenif !he danger which the difficulty of evacuating the urine produces. If you come then the introduction of an instrument, you should be aware of the ^rticidar change i urethra, which the swelled state of the prostate produces, llie swelled pr°f*Sf t not diminish the dimensions of the urethra, but it alters the course canal in that part which goes through the gland; it presses the tl together and the swelling of the prostate, the principal part of which is situated be■ a> urethra, that is, between the urethra and rectum, pushes the urethra up towaris It the same time, the enlargement of the prostate in size, an enlargement whichtoK place in all directions, increases the length of this part of the canal. t then produced are, first, an elevation of the urethra, pushed upwards t • f pubes Pan elongation of the canal in its prostatic portion, and a pressing t ge (a) Above cited, p. 229. (6) Lectures in Lancet, 1829, 30, vol. «•