RUPTURE.—TAXIS. 31 We prefer, in the event of the failure of the taxis, after warm bath and quick full, bleeding, at once to resort to the operation, considering it the most safe practice.—J. F. S. ] 1163. If the symptoms be less severe, and if complicated with spasm, warm bathing, rubbing in volatile ointments, with opium or oil of hen- bane upon the belly, tobacco clysters, cold applications upon the rupture, and in powerful persons, a large bleeding in a very hot bath, are most efficient remedies, after which sudden relaxation follows, and the reduction is effected. Here also internal remedies are ordinarily hurtful, as they increase or excite vomiting, as purgatives, with whatever addition, ipeca- cuanha in repeated doses, and so on. A simple emulsion with aqua lauro- cerasi is, among these, the most proper. The taxis must here also be at first attempted, and if it do not succeed, must be repeated after the remedies mentioned. 1164. In Chronic Strangulation, when, from collection of stools, but without any inflammatory symptoms or vomiting, or when these, though rarely, are present, stimulating clysters of vinegar and water, soap and water, solution of salts with castor oil, solution of tartar emetic, infu- sion of senna, tobacco clysters, cold applications upon the rupture, and internally purgatives, in very chronic cases calomel alone, or with opium and colocynth extract, (A. Cooper,) even with jalap or croton oil, (von Waltiier,) have been directed. But when vomiting has set in, the latter- remedies always render the patient’s condition worse. With the taxis it must always be attempted to compress the rupture, in order to return part ot the co.lected stool. When inflammatory symptoms have come on, the above-mentioned treatment must be employed in correspondence with PirPiimeto nooc A 1165. The taxis must be employed in strangulated, in the same way as in reducible rupture The patient, after having emptied his bladder, must lie in such posture that the seat of rupture be raised, and the walls of the SdPZeiiy !ngral and femoral ™Ptui'es with the rump n^d, the chest bent slightly forwards, and the thighs drawn up towards fie S’ b? n°Af Parated each other. The practitioner stands on W ; °f, he ? !ent’ g,rasps the hernial swelling with the fingers mouth $ 2 ’ aDd,pkc,eS the fin&ers of the ]eft in the region of°the toM e a i tl3! endeavours, by alternately pressing the rupture In°small’ f"r L T ? GSCaPe’ to Press back into the belly, small, lor instance, femoral and umbilical ruptures the fmo-ers of hnth WiZh ruT11'6" a?rl ^ SWelli"S to'com^refs ancf Srnl knSVeJween Z T m°Ved from oa« ^e to the other, Violent pressure is to b^KoideT'be 6 pi'eSSUre only. gradually increased, mation, and even runtnre nf i),0L because sevei’e pain, increased inflam- and the taxis must not he t l )0vve s. or op tlie hernial sac may ensue, bered, that without min « ‘ ° i°n^ contlnued ; but it must also be remem- These mart ^ strangulated rupture can be reduced, and in chiJS^“^n“ntlnufd f°r from a <P‘arter to half an hour, should endeavour to withZw T" and with greater force. We forbid all effort and strain in- If the^ ^ TBnt'°n t0 STf °bject’ and must be left quiet in the same ™ be ^successful, the patient bams; and it must be considered^0'1’ "T * the thi°hs suPPorted in the further remedies are to be emnlo ’ ,lccordlng to the circumstances, what '■axis should be repeated. NnfS’ &nd wl!et.he.r the attempts with the >g 13 more injurious than excessive vio-