353 OF THE URETHRA. inst the stricture, the urethra behind it is expanded, and it may be so , Soh that the urethra tears or is destroyed by sloughing, upon which the rine infiltrates into the neighbouring parts. If only a small quantity of i rine be extravasated into the cellular tissue, it forms a hard, definite wellin0-, which runs on to abscess. In greater extravasation there is a preading tumour, which may extend from the perineum over the scrotum, Inis, groins, and so on. The skin has at these parts a dusty red, shining npearance; gangrene soon conies on, and, after its separation, fistulous pertures are formed, by which the urine escapes. In this state the con- titutional powers often soon sink, and the patient dies. ' [“ Conceive,” says Brodie, “ a distended bladder, and the spasmodic action of the bdominal muscles and diaphragm of a powerful man acting like a syringe, and ircing the urine through the lacerated urethra into the cellular membrane. In fact, o«ie scrotum, the penis, the perinceum, sometimes even the groins are enormously dis- 7/ ;nded with urine. The first effect of this mischief is to relieve the patient’s sufferings, 'here is no more straining, and the spasm of the stricture, no longer excited by the ressure behind, becomes relaxed, so as to allow some of the urine to flow by the atural channel. After this deceptive interval of ease, another order of symptoms shows self. The urine, under any circumstances, would irritate the parts unaccustomed to a contact; but, in a case of retention of the urine, it has been long in the bladder, 3 inch of its watery parts have been absorbed, and it is in consequence unusually impreg- ated with saline matter, so that its stimulating properties are much increased. Where- iverthis acrid fluid penetrates, it first excites inflammation, and then kills the parts with which it is in contact.” (p. 13.) i “ In cases of stricture, where the disease has existed for many years, and nothing ffectual has been done for its relief,” Brodie observes, “ abscesses form in the cellular aembrane external to the bladder, but communicating with it, similar to those con- lectedwith the urethra. A considerable time elapses before such abscesses present hemselves externally, and they point at last in the groin, or above the pubes, discharg- ng a putrid, offensive pus in the first instance, and giving exit to urine afterwards. In )r. Hunter’s Museum (now at Glasgow) there is a preparation exhibiting an abscess >f this kind communicating with the bladder at the fundus, extending upwards in the ourse of the urachus, and opening externally at the navel. I believe that the formation >f these abscesses is always preceded by chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane >f the bladder, and their existence is marked by severe typhoid symptoms. For the nost part they may be regarded as a sign of approaching dissolution.” (p. 26.)] 1675. If this do not happen, however, severe symptoms arise from he changes which the mucous membrane of the hinder part of the urethra indergoes in severe and long-continued strictures. By the constant rritation of the urine collected behind the stricture, it swells up and be- comes spongy; this change spreads upon the mucous membrane of the irostatic part of the urethra, the prostate itself enlarges and its mucous ollicles swell considerably (1). Hence arises the sensation of weight in he rectum, the frequent, often useless straining at stool, the mucous, lometimes purulent discharge which precedes the flow of urine ; the fibrous, enacious urine, with the deposit of long mucous threads upon the bottom ‘f the chamber-pot, which may be drawn out to the extent of two or hree feet. The hind part of the urethra, and the neck of the bladder it last become so expanded, that the urine is only retained by the stricture, ind drips involuntarily (2). By the extension of this diseased change in the nucous membrane to the excretory canals of the semen, and the seminal > esicles, there is frequent swelling of the testicles, very quick discharge of the <emen in connexion, (in which it also escapes without elasticity, and often ^ ore the venereal orgasm is finished,) and frequent nightly pollutions. In Vf;]*y severe state of the disease voidance of the semen at a half erection, ‘out the patient having any sensation of it, with the efforts to discharge - YOL. a. 2 A