998 OF RESECTION should penetrate into the spheno-maxillary fissure, and afterwards ^ the zygomatic process of the cheek-bone is tube divided in like manner, ilie up'per jaw-bone having been thus separated on the outside, a very broad chisel is placed below the inner corner of the eye, and held in such direc- tion that when struck with the hammer, it passes through the lower part of the os unguis and the orbitar plate of the ethmoid bone. T he ascending nasal process of the jaw-bone corresponding to the nose-bone, is to be separated in the same manner; and all the soft parts connecting the wing of the nose to the upper jaw are now to be cut through, i he incisive teeth of the affected side are now to be inclined outwards, and whilst the chisel is entered between the two upper maxillary bones, not directly from before backwards, but obliquely from the mouth, their separation is very quickly and easily effected. Lastly, to separate the jaw-bone from the pteryo-oid process, and any still remaining connexions with the ethmoid bone behind, the chisel must be passed from the orbit obliquely downwards to loosen everything which has firm adhesion, and by leverhke movements, to push down the separated bone into the mouth. Nothing more remains but to cut through the attachment of the palate-bone to the soft pala e, either with the curved scissors or with the bistoury, in such way that the j latter may still remain connected with the pterygoid process, and with its other side. When the upper jaw-bone has been removed, there is a large cavity bounded on the inside by the mucous membrane of the septum narium, above and before by the lower straight muscle of the eye, by fat and cellular tissue, the outside by the cellular tissue beneath the m. buc- cinator, and behind by that part of the throat above the soft palate. all the soft parts from the swelling to the inner comets of the ej I fray’s S- twenty-six* united the wound. „ • • ,i,0 Jaw-bone are the most [Symk’s (b) directions for performing excision of die upper ja incisi0r,s simple, and will not be found less convenient than any other. He sa directly should be made through the cheek, one extending from the inner ang qjj :ind disease is to De be involved, and it is necessary to remove separated decided upon. 1ft straight tooth-forceps, a full-sized bistourv copper^ s^tul^^ow^rfo^sm^rs, a^ry|j^c^ps^^^needles^for pprPapsf some (a) Chlrurgische und Augenkrnnken-Klinikum der Universitat Erlangen, p. 81. • (h) Principles of Surgery, (c) Practical Surgery. Third Edition-