CHRONIC STRICTURE 334 masses. If diarrhoea occur, the patient usually feels more easy. In rare cases there is diarrhoea throughout the whole course ol the disease ; these are of the worst kind, as ulceration is going on simultaneously in the upper part of the intestinal canal. 1627. The disease proceeds more or less quickly according to the dif- ference of constitution; the general health is sometimes affected early, sometimes remains for a long while undisturbed. As the narrowing in- creases, the costiveness becomes greater, the belly harder and fuller; the digestion becomes more affected, the colic more frequent and severe, and the feet swell. From the continuing costivenesss, faeculent vomit- ino-, as well as quickly fatal inflammation of the belly, or perforation of3the intestine above the stricture, may ensue, especially if kernels or other foreign bodies remain sticking in the stricture, and completely close it. If there be perforation, it usually occurs close to the stricture, at one part softened by inflammation, at which the stools are rarely poured forth into the cavity of the peritoneum, but rather into the cellular tissues surrounding the rectum, and gangrenous abscesses form around the anus and on different parts of the buttocks. When these burst, or are opened, a quantity of foetid ichor and motion burst forth, a large part of the coverings becomes gangrenous, and the patient dies quickly, orywrtM form, and the person may live some time in a lamentable condition. The stricture may run on to ulceration ; severe pain, ichorous dischargi and even bleeding then occur ; all assume a carcinomatous character; M> destruction attacks the neighbouring parts, fistula form, the skin about a the anus and on the buttocks, the urinary bladder, the vagina, and womb, are attacked with ulceration ; and when the destruction has extended far, the stools cannot be retained, but pass involuntarily, and the patient dies* exhausted. [“ in some instances,” Brodie states, “ the patient dies with symptoms of hernia • that is, a piece of hard frees is lodged above the stricture and cannotp* through it; thus there is a mechanical obstruction to the passage of l * becomes tympanitic, the tongue dry; there is sickness, vomiting, and theoteW STSfiSg strangulation. He injections and the use of a bougie, may recover; he may have a se<»ncl, a . an(i then he mav have a third, which may prove fatal, (p- . A,™V tom M 3 to relate the case of a who, : uader JJ tlire of the rectum, was obstinately costive. On examination, a j fhf to have lodged just above the stricture; it was removed with stone forceps, recovered.] > 1628. By the chronic inflammation, which causes stricture of the ,j the mucous membrane, the cellular tissue beneath it, and a „ijted. the other membranes, are thickened, till at last the whole: gut The changes which the inflammation produces are either its con into a hard, fibrous, even cartilaginous tissue (1) or into scirrhous dege^ ration, or into ulceration, with or without fibrous, cartilaginous, or cedematous degeneration, or into the formation of i n 0f Si sarcomatous excrescences (2), or into shrivelling a"d contrac the parts at once, so that this part of the gut is diminished to a quill, and its cavity often completely disappears. ndthe-l (Yl) Brodie says“ On dissecting a simple stricture ofthe ! /'“he nuiscalw mucous membrane thickened, of a harder structure than natural ^ tunic thickened also. The stricture sometimes occupies the whole g (n) MS. Lectures. -f. •* ‘t-t* t TiftyWH ri