CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 582 of the wound, and near to it the part still covering the membranous pa -j are to be divided. At this place I generally press the bistoury on to t. .j staff, thrusting it in the direction as if I would push it up behind ti ,-j pubic symphysis, and then complete the cut by carrying the knife dow b wards (1). If the outer cut be begun higher than directed, there is danger of wounding the hi J of the urethra, and the transverse artery of the perinaum. Continuing the cut low - j endangers either the rectum, or, if the cut be made too much outwards, the intert' .‘4j pudic artery. Rheineck (a) always makes the cut on the right ride, which has no advantage, ai « is only proper if the patient must be cut on the right side (i), which may be the ca d if the rectum, instead of being directly behind the prostate, be on its left side (c). [Brodie directs that the staff be “held nearly perpendicularly, the handle of it beic;H however, a little inclined towards the patient’s right groin. This causes the convexi' '> of the instrument to project slightly on the left side of the perinaum. In the first p< ; of the operation, your attention is to be directed to the staff. You are to feel it wi your left hand, and the knife, held in your right hand, is to be directed towards it ] is a sure guide, following which, you can never err, even in the deepest per mam * * * Where there is any quantity of fat in the perinaum, or anything ev< distantly approaching to what we call a deep perinaum, if you attempt to cut at on into the groove of the staff, the result is, that you open the urethra too far forward, you divide the corpus spongiosum of the penis, which need not in reality he divided- all; and you are then certain of wounding the artery of the bulb of the urethra, whir otherwise is in most instances avoided. Another inconvenience which attends on th method of proceeding is, that the wound being too near to the scrotum, the cellul; membrane of it is in danger of being infiltrated with blood; and another still is, that greater mass of substance is left to be divided, when you continue the incision into tl bladder, than there would have been if you had cut into the urethra further back inti first instance. 1 say, then, let the opening in the urethra be made deep in the perinam behind the bulb, and as near as can be to the prostate. Place the thumb of your le hand on the skin over the staff; and in a man of ordinary size, about an inch and quarter before the anus. Begin your incision immediately below this, on the left sic of the raphe, and continue it backwards and towards the left side, into the space betwee the anus, and the tuberosity of the left ischium. Here you may cut freely; you <a injure nothing of consequence. Then feel for the staff in the wound; direct the poll, of your knife towards it, and carefully cut into the groove, where it lies m the men branous part of the urethra. All these incisions are made low down in the perinatal that is, near the rectum.” (pp. 309, 10.) _ . , A free cut through the skin, proportioned to the patient’s size, is always very aav^ tageous, as it materially facilitates the withdrawal of the stone, if it be large, andprw vents much bruising, which is an object of great importance. I have seen both OTWJI and large external cuts made, and am sure that the latter are preferable to the fonn although 1 am not inclined to make the cut so large as to be able to see through l ***”1 the bladder, as was jokingly said of the operations of Chandler, who '"a* ® . • c good and quick lithotomist, and one of the Surgeons at St. Thomas’s Hospital durini my studentship. It is not the first cut which can wound the rectum, except with at • sive carelessness, but the second, and then it may easily be prevented it the SWgewpi keep the point of his knife raised towards the pubic arch, instead of depressing | towards the rectum, as is too frequently done.—J. F. S.] 2079. The opening of the membranous part of the urethra, and thi cutting into the neck of the bladder, is that act of the operation by " hie the several modes of performing the lateral operation for the stone an distinguished. These may be arranged under the following divisions.-'I First^ the cut into the neck of the bladder made with the same 1 for the outer cut; Second, with some special instrument for the PUIT°V I and from without inwards ; Third, with a special instrument from wi I outwards. ... fo) Medic, und Chirurg. Betracht. Tiber die ein- J 1.. CnWnnhlacnnsclmitiPS ! mit (6) Ki.sin; in fc) Deschamfs, ; in Loder's Journal, vob W- P- iMrs, above cited, vol. *»• P- Obs. 168, 169.