nan :*.h r* Tf. w feii- VL—OF HORNS. S Cornua, Excrescentia: Cutis Cornea:, Rliinodysmorphia corniculata, Lat.; Hornartige Aitswiichse, Germ.; Comes, Fr.) Journal de Medecine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie de Vandermonde, vol. xiv. 1761. Rudolphi, Ueber Hornbildungen; in Abhandlungen der Berliner Akademie, 1814-15. Ernst, Dissert, de Corneis liumani corporis Excrescentiis. Berol., 1819. Westrdmb; in Horn’s Arckiv., 1828, p. 316. Froriep; in Casper’s Wochenschrift, 1833, p. 412. Bulletin de la Societe Anatomique de Paris, 1835, pp. 98,114,131. Landouzi, Me'moire sur une Corne humaine. Paris, 1836. h Ainsworth, Dissert, de Corneis bumani corporis Excrescentiis. Berol., 1836; cum tab. seneis, iv. r?i Wcstefeld; in Casper’s Wochenschrift, 1836, p. 635. Ebers ; , 1837, p. 567. Steinhaeusen ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 141. I Cruvelhier, Anatomie pathologique, livr. 20. 2197. Horny growths of the skin, and mucous membrane, often rise tfi everal inches above the surface of the skin, and have perfect resemblance 9 3 the horns of beasts. Usually there is only one, but sometimes several t once, or near together; many even are spread over the whole surface f the body, under which circumstances the disease seems to form the ransition to elephantiasis, where a horny substance, in shape of scales or pines, covers the whole or part of the body. These horny growths occur pon the hairy parts of the head, upon the forehead, nose, and cheeks; pon the breast, back, shoulders, arms, and hands; at the beginning of H ie mucous membranes, and on other parts. r Horns have been observed on the hairy part of the head by Fabricius ab Aqua- * endente, Bartholin, Gastellier, Lex, Home, Parkinson, Ansiaux, Piccinelli, 'I aldani, Astley Cooper, Testa, and by myself thrice; on the nose by myself; on ie hands and feet by Borelli, Lachmdnd, Dolceds, Denis, Marc, Otto, Lages • i the thighs by Dumarceau and Carradois.; on the face by Borelli, Riverius’ a -at and on the tongue, by Breschet; on the red edge of the lip by JaegerJ; on the > side of the prepuce, on a scar, after the operation for phimosis, by Dieffenbach • ‘ > the glans penis by Reghellini, Bonioli, Caldani, Ebers, Richard-Destru’ R RESciiet, and Meckel. For an account of the most important early observations ■ such horny growth see Samuel Cooper (a). I [Erasmus Wilson (6) has given an interesting statistical account of horns which ■> ve grown on the human body, having “ succeeded in obtaining ninety cases: of which •Arty-four were females, and thirty-nine males; of the remainder the sex is not rationed. Of this number forty-eight were seated on the head, four on the face four he nose, eleven on the thigh, three on the leg and foot, six on the back, five on the I Z fZT’ 7 re°ri the, tnmk,of the body- The greater frequency of this dis- icuouMv'1ifCm eS Gan -maleS 18 adm'tted by a11 autb°rs; but this fact is most con- icuously shown in the instance of the thigh and of the head; for examnle of the ' ’hraffmiSnfffth°rihy g1rowth,from the tbigh. two only were males; and of the forty- rlmv • g h hLea< ’ twenty-seven occurred in females, and nineteen in males • in is affechon6- tht‘iT bt’ng unmentioiied- That old age is a predisposing cause of of fortV ’• PK?Ved ^ the greater frequency of its occurrence in elderly persons; TeaLvT.U 8 -. cases/u^h'ch the scalp was the seat of the growth, thirty-eight above the mid period of life: several wereov«r ...,,i ° Tr, Zy°ung persons, and three infants.” (pp. G4, 65.) *n the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital there ") First Lines of Surgery, p. 34f>. Edition of 1840. are three examples of horns from the (63 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. 1844.