42 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE, adhesions with each other, (p. 284-87.) The neck of an omental sac may become the sole cause of strangulation, of which an instance is given. “ The division of the neck of these omental sacs may be followed by haemorrhage,” of which he also men- tions a case; the external bleeding at the operation was slight, and soon ceased; but after death a large patch of recently effused blood was found in the folds of the | omentum near the mouth of the sac. (pp. 291, 92.)] (3) If the blood have not coagulated in the vessels of the omentum, cutting it off and tying them singly is not only an almost interminable business, but also when apparently all the vessels have been secured, and the patient put to bed, after a few hours secondary bleeding occurs from some little vessel or vessels which had escaped notice, the sac and yielding skin become largely distended with blood, in such quantity as to produce faint- ness, and require the reopening of the wound to remove the blood and tie the bleeding vessels. This disturbance of the wound prevents the adhesive process, and very commonly gives rise to abscess in the sac or its immediate neighbourhood, by which the cure is much retarded. A case of this kind occurred to me, and a large abscess was the result, although the patient ultimately recovered. It is on this account I prefer tearing through the omentum as much as possible, by which the ends of the vessels are ensheathed in cellular tissue, and do not bleed, or even tying up the omentum together. The occurrence of abscess in the sac, independent of bleeding, and which sometimes reproduces symptoms of strangulation, has been noticed by Key, as will be presently seen (p. 49) ; first, in a case which occurred at St. Thomas's Hospital in 1817, which I remember to have noted; and secondly, in a case of his own.—J. F. S.] 1179. If the intestine have a dark, violet, even dusky colour, and its warmth be diminished, these must not prevent its reduction ; only, accord- ing to some, the precaution should be taken of drawing a loop through the mesentery, for the purpose of keeping the returned intestine in the neigh- bourhood of the abdominal ring, and to afford a more free escape to the stool, if a part of the returned intestine be destroyed by gangrene. [It not unfrequently happens, that though an intestine be a dark-chocolate colour when the sac is first opened, yet immediately after the division of the stricture, the colour, which has depended only on venous congestion, begins to alter, and the gut becomes florid. This is always a very encouraging sign.—J. F. S.] 1180. If the gangrene be more severe, which is characterized by loss i of gloss, by an ashy-gray colour, by a softened condition, by the easy peeling off of the outer membrane of the intestine, if the gangrenous portion be but small, it must be opened with a lancet, and the gangrenous part fastened in a corresponding position to the abdominal ring. If a loop of intestine be j attacked wit if gangrene, and the continuity of the intestinal canal destroyed, the o-angrenous part must simply be cut off with scissors, as by the previous inflammation, adhesion of the rest of the intestine with the hernial sac lias been effected, which prevents all effusion of stool into the belly. If the excrement will not escape of itself, an elastic sound must be introduced. The enlargement of the mouth of the sac with the knife is dangerous, as the divisio'n easily overshoots the boundary of the adhesion and may cause effusion into the belly. Stitching up the intestine after cutting off the gangrenous part, as proposed and performed in various ways, is objectionable, as the stitch not holding the inflamed intes- tinal membranes, produces extension of the inflammation and gangrene. 1181. If in the protruded bowel any wounding substance be found, it must t be removed by the wound ; if the intestine be so narrowed and degenerated i that it can no* longer allow the passage of the stools, that part must be cut off the wound brought together, by means of Lembert’s stitch; or thee intestine must be fixed in the abdominal ring, by a twist of the mesenteiy. In very small wounds only of the intestines, may the little opening be tieau up with a silk thread (A. Cooper.) . , . . . -ri- ll 82. If in an old and bulky rupture, it lie certain that it is not possible