123 PKOLAPSE OF THE VAGINA. once, protrusions by no means uncommon. These protrusions, if small in size, may be looked upon as natural to the part; but they often show a disposition to increase and then begin to attract attention.” (p. 29.)] 1292. The following circumstances predispose to prolapse of the vagina ; relaxation, and slight cohesion of the vagina, and its surround- ing cellular tissue in cachectic subjects after a violent flow of whites, after frequent deliveries, especially if the perinceum be torn, after too frequent coitus, onanism, and the like. The occasional causes are, violent exertions in lifting heavy weights, in violent vomiting, shrieking’ and the like ; violent efforts in delivery, especially in improper postures’ in going to stool, and so on ; also pressure from the parts surroundin0- the vagina, for instance, from large stones in the urinary bladder, from reten- tion of urine, dropsy of the belly, and so on, may produce prolapse. It arises in general suddenly or slowly. [Clarke’s form of prolapsed vagina is considered by him to arise from the habitual constipation of the bowels, to which women subject themselves, in consequence of which the lower part of the intestinal canal becomes so distended sometimes as to make the posterior part of the vagina approach near to the anterior part of the pelvis, and in this Xy«XeaS'• T9lna tTy be “uch diminished. This extreme distension of the gut at length diminishes, or takes off the power of contraction upon its contents and 'irf/,the specter muscle is increased by its frequent resistance to the con- traction of the intestines and abdominal muscles: at length, when, by the operation of purgative medicine, or by the natural strong efforts of the intestinL, or by manual the nnnCf’f WhlCahKS ?ometim?s required,) the lower bowel is emptied of its Contents the pouch formed by it, and the posterior part of the vaqina continues so as to form provident la vagina. If the forefinger of the Surgeon if passed int^hT an Jun<W «ich circumstances, and carried forwards, it will be directed into the pouch s0 formed S22ET to be produced by piles, acting i„ th/same mao,.or es' diseased ovaries Ming down tatBKSZS «I^-thefrrUSi0n bC pressed bJt wUh’ae^TngTwen means tokeep the recS° empt^and^^T " The Practitioner is to direct proper -tore l!Z7ofte 2? ^ to endeavour to restore the tone of the cut Wfv °ne5 lts causes5 afterwards he is tbe second cannot be accomplished■ th« of these objects, emptying of it will be useless Pnmvil r' u °!the bowel IS restored, the mere into the rectum, are the means by which the firstofTlfc^ °?°Utb’.and clysters thrown Piles are present, the class of resinous■ * °bjects ls to be attained. If h the cut is cn Purgatives is to be avoided. - - * * * instances, the cut is en i T , pu.gauves is to oe avoided. * * * As in enn,„ - - .o e»P, Jferyrj firm, ssdzfsiB