CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 166 or the reception of two rods, which at their upper part have a semicircular sweep outwards for supporting the shoulders, and are movable higher or lower. At the upper part of each sheath is a semicircle, to which two rods are attached, their upper ends thrown round the half circles, like hooks, their lower ends curved round the half circles, encompassing the pelvis and ascending within it. These processes, covered with leather, form long pads, which are brought close to, or separated from, the rods, by screws. "Well-fitting stays surround the front of the chest. The apparatus of Langenbeck (a) and von Graefe (h) are constructed on the same prin- ciples. Second. Jorg’s apparatus (c) consists of a firm and an elastic part; the former is made of linden wood, covered with soft leather; the latter con- sists of several springs laid close together and covered, connected at the one end with the firm part and at the other end fastened with a buckle. In scoliosis the firm part is applied to the concave side of the trunk, below it rests upon the hip, and above, juts against the shoulder. The elastic 1 half is carried round the other side (for the first degree of scoliosis, Jo kg employs an elastic brace, which is attached to the breeches usually worn, . before and behind, in the middle by a button, and passes over the shoulder of the projecting side, where a pad is placed beneath it.) In cyphosis this - apparatus is applied with the alteration, that the firm part is always • applied where the trunk is concave, and the elastic half on the seat of the projection. A. Portal had already proposed to a certain extent a similar apparatus, consisting of a double fork, which is fastened on the sides to a pair of stays, so that the arm above and the hip below serve for its application (d). The Graefean apparatus is composed—-1. Of a loin-girdle, which by means of a pair ? of semilunar plates rests upon the crests of the hip-bones. The hinder ends of this girdle may be introduced into each other, and fastened with a screw. The front ends are connected with a buckle. Upon the semilunar plates are studs on both sides, on which ' is fastened a strap, destined to support the belly. All this part of the machine is stuffed - with hair and covered with leather. 2. Of a breast-girdle, which like the lower one consists of two semicircles, connected behind in the same way as is the lower one; and in front, in males, fastened together by a strap and buckle; but in females, segments are applied around the breasts. 3. On the loin- and chest-girdle there are, on both sides, two rods firmly connected with the former, and with the second by a steel plate. These rods i form beneath quadrangular sheaths, which terminate in quadrangular capsules, on the out- side of each of which is a quadrangular prominence. In the interior of these sheaths is an endless screw, which can be raised up or depressed by means of a roller fixed on the quadrangular projection. The rest of the sheath above the quadrangular process - is formed into a cylinder, in which is a spiral spring. Into the upper opening of this cylindrical part of the sheath is the rod received, having upon it the support for the» shoulder, 'which is properly padded, and so attached to the rod that it can be differenujr Ij placed, according to the different form of the shoulder. For the purpose of connecting » pressure on the spine with this extending apparatus, cushions are applied, by means of ■ screws on the breast or loin-girdle, according to the difference of place to which pressure r is to be applied. , . , j I have made the following alterations in this apparatus to render it more simple anu less costly. A case of iron plate, properly padded, and enclosing the pelvis up to the, upper spine of the hip-bone, is fastened in front with a broad strap and buckle. On MOW sides of this pelvis case are two buckles, in which two rods connected with each otnff» are inserted. At the upper end, these rods are connected with an iron plate, through tne middle of which a screw passes, quadrangular at its lower end, and at the upper, tw properly padded supports are attached, which may be placed higher or lower, by mean (а) Bibliotliek fiir die Ckirurgie, vol. iii. pt. il. i. ii. f. 3. , „ (б) Mai.sch, G. Dissert, dc nova machina Graefiana distorsioncs spina: dorsi ad sanandas pi nec non disquisitio deformitatum istarum. Bern •, 1818. tto.; with copper-plates. (el Above cited, pi. v. f. 1. (rf) Precis dc Chirurg. prat., vol. i. I aru,*• I I- j r