497 DIAGNOSIS. 1932. Hydrocele is a collection of watery fluids in the tunics of the Kcrotum, or of those of the testicle ; it therefore varies according' as the i rater is collected in the cellular tissue of the scrotum, in the vaginal o unic of the testicle, or in that of the spermatic cord. The latter two ,< re, however, in general alone considered as hydrocele, and the former as .S' edema. fl933. The collection of water in the cellular tissue of the scrotum onus a soft swelling, which retains the impress of the finger, and when it a nlarges, becomes tense and firm, unfolds the wrinkles of the scrotum, >; preads on to the penis and covers it, and by the swelling of the prepuce, r lie discharge of the urine is often prevented. Inflammation, suppuration, to: nd mortification may result from this swelling. 1934. This disease is either symptomatic and connected with general v ropsy and the like, or arises from pressure on the lymphatic vessels by an ij 11-fitting truss, or from accidental tearing of a hydrocele of the vaginal > unic, and in children from pressure during the birth, and irritation of the w crotum by the urine. The cure depends on the removal of these causes 3/ nd the use of means specially fitted to cedema. 1935. The collection of water in the vaginal tunic of the testicle, True ® hydrocele (Hydrocele tunicce vaginalis testis) is always produced slowly, P s a swelling rising gradually from the bottom of the scrotum towards the si bdominal ring, at first sometimes accompanied with painful distension, 1 ut at other times without any peculiar sensation. The swelling has h: enerally an oval form (1), is elastic, tense, sometimes distinctly fluc- uating, and the appearance of the skin over it is unaltered; in coni- n’ arison with its size it is light; it increases neither on coughing nor on ny exertion, and cannot be returned into the belly. The testicle is felt, > hen the swelling is large, generally on its upper and hind part as a hard art (2) j its position, however, may vary. The spermatic cord is felt above 9 ieswelling, if it extend not to the abdominal ring. If in the dark a light be laced behind the swelling, it is found to be transparent, if the fluid con- fined within it be clear, and the vaginal tunic be not thickened. Some- 7 raes when the distension is very great, the vaginal tunic and the cellular i ssue upon it and the m. cremaster are thickened, the swelling feels arder, is not transparent, and no fluctuation is felt; the vaginal tunic ■hay be even bony. In long-continued hydrocele the spermatic cord n id the testicle are varicose, the testicle sometimes wasted. From pres- | ire °.n the swelling, as in old bulky ruptures, the vessels of the cord are s >metimes separated, and thrust either aside or in front of the swelling, the swelling be very large, the veins of the scrotum swell, the skin names and sometimes ulcerates. ' wino.The ,ge?eral for™ of a hydrocele is pear-shaped, largest at bottom, and nar- 1'ic ef in u! ar ^,l!PWards; but vury oftun U is more °val, and sometimes even cou- ' >wever aS \° as?ume an hour-glass appearance. Care must be taken, I 'drl ’p f ?ln th,at th“ hour-glass form is not caused by the existence of two c . OoTnnH r ab°VG ‘ n 0ther’ of whlch Astlky Cooper mentions one instance, fe e lower lrtDIsE-a T ■ m0r,e rcmarkal,le one>in which “ he drew off the water from - ar ^ ^ up,per part The Patient came to him a 1 served thatSp^l v h®/ILv laVC the Water drawa otf again. Brodie 7 ' iter from ybt.“ntrachon of the hour-glass was narrower, and, on drawing off the [ luently forced m l Par’ f°^nd ‘ the ,uPPer one was not emptied, and was con- BginaUv a nnrti-.i Puacture that afterwards, so that it was evident what had been .91.) P contraction, in the course of a year had become a complete one.’' 2 K