432 PUNCTURING double bandage and circles of sticking plaster around the ■penis. T urine must be allowed to escape every three or four hours; and every t j or seven days a fresh one introduced, so that it may not get too mu. j softened and encrusted. If the patient cannot bear the inlying of t catheter, it must be introduced as often as needful. If a stiff elastic or silver catheter remain in very long, or if the urethra be shor > than usual, its beak may gradually penetrate the hinder upper wall of the bladdi and. cause fatal peritonitis. In this case the urine begins to escape after five or i days or it escapes between the urethra and catheter, and symptoms of peritonitis ari. To prevent this the catheter must be carefully fastened, not too closely, so that it not penetrate more deeply than that the urine may escape by its side openings. T. may be easily managed, if whilst the urine flows, the catheter be pushed a few lines ! and carefully fastened at the moment it ceases to flow.—(Lallemand) (a). 1819. The introduction of the catheter in the female is much mo easy than in the male. The patient being laid on her back, and h thighs somewhat separated, the forefinger of the right hand, with t catheter upon its volar surface, is passed between the labia towar., the orifice of the urethra, which is distinctly felt with its tip as .• aperture surrounded with a little puffy edge, and into it the cathel i is passed. If it cannot be managed in this way, the parts must exposed so that the orifice of the urethra may be brought into view. OF PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. 1820. When in consequence of retention of urine, the bladder is greatly distended, that dangerous results, as mortification, tearing of t bladder, or extravasation of urine, are to be dreaded, and the voidance the urine cannot be effected by the natural passage, there remains nooth means of safety for the patient than emptying the bladder by artific: means, or puncturing the bladder, (Paracentesis Vesicce, LaL; last stick Germ.; Ponction de la Vessie, Fr.,) as it is called. Phis opei tion ’is rarely necessary, if the introduction of wax or catgut bougie elastic catheters, and a mode of treatment corresponding to the charact of the retention, have been carefully pursued. It is, however, bad p tice to dispense with this operation, by trusting to the violent introduce of the catheter, in cases of insurmountable obstacles in the urethra. rua Hiring the bladder is not so dangerous an operation as by many suppose- its danger is only much increased when it has been too long delaxu • 1821. Puncture of the bladder may be performed in three ways: Jtr.< above the pubes; second, through the rectum, and in women, througn vagina; third, through the perinamm. 1822. In puncturing the bladder above the pubes, the patien placed in a half sitting posture in bed. The hair of the pubes .a been removed, an assistant fixes the bladder with both hands, an in the mesial line, corresponding to the linea alba. 1 he burgeon pn nail of the forefinger of his left hand upon the upper edge of tlie P symphysis; holds with the whole right hand a somewhat cur'e‘ , rant’s) trocar, lays his forefinger on its convex sy^ce, an 1 ^ ] with the concavity downwards, close above the nail of the h <■ ^ , the white line, and thrusts it through the walls of the belly m o e . When the trocar has penetrated from two and a halt t tu deep, according to the thickness of the walls, the operator grasp ^ ^ I (a) Perforation <le la Vessie par les Sondes fixes; in Revue Medicale. vol.ix., p. 299- 1