SYMPTOMS AND KINDS OF CANCER. 756 (a) Scarpa, above cited, p. 29. hering to the surface of the swelling, and the veins upon it swell (Con cecded cancer, Cancer occultus, Lat.; verborgener Krebs, Germ.). T.h neighbouring lymphatic vessels and glands swell, become haul and pair ful, the constitution is more or less disturbed, loss of appetite follows indigestion, wasting, and cachectic earthy countenance. 2394. Under aggravation of the above symptoms the thinned skin a last breaks, and an ichorous, bloody, brownish, or limpid fluid escapes-.| without the bulk of the tumour being in the least diminished.; an ulcer xM formed with hard edges and with irregular surface ; very painful fungous growths spring up ; an excessively stinking ichor is discharged ; th: I neighbouring glands, even those lying beyond the course of the lymph ad swell, and all parts are destroyed by the ulcer spreading in every directio n after they have first assumed a scirrhous state. Bleedings frequently com -) on, the body wastes considerably, the skin assumes a peculiar yellowish* gray colour, the countenance has the characteristic impress of deep-seate w disease; collections of serum are formed in the cellular tissue,, and in th I cavities; peculiar frangibility of the bones; hectic fever with night sweats, and colliquative diarrhoea, and the powers of the patient ar.-r I exhausted. . J 2395. If a scirrhus be examined before any ulceration have take* place, there is found a hard, firm, incompressible substance which, enj into thin layers, is semitransparent, has the consistence of cartilage and f fibro-cartilage to that of lard, with which appearances it in general agrees*] and is composed of two different substances; the one hard and fibrous or the other soft and seemingly inorganized. The fibrous partforms vuho regularity various partitions and cavities, in which is contained a s stance, having usually a pale brownish, sometimes bluis ^ ^ whitish, or reddish colour, similar to hardened albumen. The fibrou l part has sometimes a cartilaginous hardness. But specially 1 ^tions of these two substances very different; sometimes, the fibrou J substance forms as it were the nucleus, from which the> parUtlOMspf ' • in every direction, and on the substance being cut, a radiated appearan 3 L preinted Sometimes the whole swelling forms an homogenous ban lard-like substance, in which no definite tissue can be ^covered^ tween these two extremes there are various links, mere y * » -ggjl the different proportions of the two substances. Sometim^ e - I the different proportions oi me iwu ^uauv. . , . r[rrhu* tumours filled with fluids of different colours are found m a ^ . The scirrhus specially exists either as a tissue different fromt or?J ^ | which it is developed, or from the conversion of sutetance |iseas I organ itself; in the latter case, the boundary between health and cannot be accurately determined. the ]ard | If the tumour be examined in the state of concealed can , e like substance is found harder in the centre than at the c^rcl parts f , here and there it is spotted with red; rough and uneven at son ^ I with cells of different size which are filled with a viscid, as-g « fluid, of a very Hind, ot a very acm. — ye :, , inner van in the interspaces of the fibrous streaks are pale-red ai ! ^e,r bc her 1 ...M, o craft nnrl f.imrous substance ; from which last may covered with a soft and fungous substance ; i™.u ~ ‘ rtions o and there separated, by scratching with the finger-nail, litt 1 the hard-white matter lying beneath (a). pi«monts of scirrhus Microscopic examination presents the following a- • 1 J it :ir