213 BY COMPRESSION. , i a vessel of some size was now. for the first time, felt, which ran superficially in the of Diirse of the femoral artery, and had evidently become enlarged since the filling up of le sac of the aneurism. The patient says that last night, about twelve o’clock, when e loosened the screw of the instrument, the aneurism no longer pulsated, from which me he suffered much pain, both in the tumour and about the knee.” These symptoms, awever, subsided on the following day, when, “ in addition to the superficial artery I ready mentioned in the course of the femoral, the articular arteries about the knee lore found enlarged, one of which, on the inside, is nearly as large as the radial artery.” in the fifiy-seveuth day “ the tumour was about the size and shape of a small hen’s hr, very firm and solid. The pulsation in the femoral artery can be traced from the j-oin to within a short distance of the obliterated sac of the aneurism.’’ (p. 248-54.) 1 Such are the results of the first three cases, in which aneurysm has been treated by impression by the Irish Surgeons, and Bellingham has enumerated (a) nine other ses in which it has been employed, three of which have been managed in England by iston, Allan, and GreaTrex, and the rest in Ireland, and all cured. Thus Cramp- in’s assertion (6), that “ intermediate compression, or compression from without (main- ined for a sufficient length of time to allow the blood in the aneurismal sac to coagulate) * id been tried and was found ineffectual,” (p. 359,) is proved to have been so only on ac- ;< uut of the inefficient mode of the application of external pressure. From this account Iiougli I have yet had no opportunity of practising this treatment, I must confess I mk it highly worthy of serious attention, and am much disposed to think I should try on a fitting occasion. Bellingham very justly observes, upon the advantage of .ernating pressure upon the artery, that “ the principal improvement which has taken ice in the treatment of aneurism by compression, consists in the mode of applying the issure; that is, instead of employing a single instrument, we employ two or “three if :essary; these are placed on the artery leading to the aneurismal sac : and, when the ■Wn!a0f b!iC°meu pain.fu1’ ** is relaxed> the o^er having been previously and’ b/.thus alternating the pressure, we can keep up continued compression any length of time. By this means the principal obstacle in the way of the employ- •nt of pressure has been removed ; the patient can apply it with comparatively little f06 t0 ttmself.• time will not be lost owing to the parts becoming painful or -onated fiom the pressure of the pad of the instrument; and, as the pressure need not interrupted for any length of time, the duration of the treatment will be necessarilv fisiderably abridged.” (p. 167.) With regard to the treatment of the artery which . been thus treated, Bellingham says“ It will be observed, from the histories •he cases which have been published, that the femoral arterv could be traced after i nc compressed, (p. 165.) This is a very interesting circumstance and snimm-te Hunter s opinion, that “the force of the circulation being taken’ off fron? the -unsmal sac, the progress of the disease would be stopped.”] 4 '.420. As regards the more precise determination of making use of nres- l e for the cure of aneurysm, it is advised by many to employ it in all VoSrTl hat T if 110 reiake place« a progressive^expa^sion of , .ollateral branches may be effected. It may be employed if the - ysm ie still recent, if it be not large, especially when the conse ence of an external injury; if there be no circumstances which render a cure necessary ; if the patient be not very stout, the limb not very jtfwi an1 * artei'y.P0 Situated’ that its walls can be properly g it together by compression. Where beneficial, it soon shows - the ITshodd riTT theref°re’ never ^ persisted in too long id or it dangerous It t T'' “ circu,f1tances occur which may I, rest |,K ! 1 , , always Prol)er to accompany the pressure 4 Of digitalis, ami T(fon° d appllCatl0ns to the swelling, and the internal is successful only in about one out fed rafter a, spomiSTZJrfSeSlym ““ *«**" * «► (a) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. a.\ r, n. _ « of Surgery. Lonao^lS^v",^"™^01’ XXVH’ 1845‘