18& HOOK-FOOT. Jorg’s apparatus consists of a shoe like that of Scarpa's for club-foot; on the auter side of which an iron rod ascends to the knee and is fastened round the leg with i strap. At the lower part of this rod is a spring furnished with a stop-wheel, to which an iron rod is attached, which runs forwards along the foot. A strap carried round the front of the foot is affixed to the end of this rod, by which the foot is always drawn up (2). [(1) Amoug the causes which produce permanent contraction of the gastrocnemial muscles and consequent horse-foot, may be enumerated ulceration, of which I had a good case in 1837, in a strumous girl, whose heel was raised four inches from the ground, the muscles being much shrunk in the calf, and the scar of the skin closely connected with chem. The motions of both knee and ankle being perfectly free when the knee was :>ent, I divided the Achilles’ tendon, and she was cured completely. I had also, in the same year, a case of horse-foot under my care, which followed a lalsy of the left arm and leg during teething, first at ten months, and next at two years >f age, from which, however, when three years old, the patient had recovered so far as o walk about with the aid of a stick or crutch ; and when about sixteen, he was able sometimes to walk even without a stick. Towards the end of the following year the leel began to leave the ground, and slowly rose still higher till he was twenty years ild, when it was at least four inches from the ground, and had so continued when I saw lim a twelvemonth after, (Sept. 1837,) the tarsus and metatarsus being then on the ame plane as the front of the leg, and the foot resting only on the ball of the great toe. The foot was livid and pappy, and when lifted off the ground, dangled at the ankle- oint, both flexor and extensor muscles appearing to be paralysed. Although, under hese circumstances, relief from division of the Achilles’ tendon seemed to be very r.oubtful, I thought it worth while performing the operation, so that the sole might be irought to the ground, and then that attempts might be made to excite the muscles on he front of the leg to action. The tendon was therefore divided in the usual manner n Sept. 30, which brought the sole again flat, and its position was preserved by the itirrup and rod attached to a circular knee-strap, and the foot was gradually more exed by shortening the rod as he could bear it. After wearing this apparatus six reeks, the foot, on its removal, was found still to drop, but not to the same extent . "'as directed to try to move about on crutches, and to throw some of the weight of is body upon it; but the attempt produced severe pain in the muscles of the inside of ie leg, which lasted a few hours, and then subsided. On the following day the luscles in the anterior tibial region were electrified for about a quarter of an hour he foot however still dropping, the stirrup was reapplied; and five days after he was We to bear upon the foot, wearing the stirrup, without pain. About a month after he fitt the house, the sole of the foot was then flat on the ground, and the foot itself at ight angle with the leg; but the muscles in the anterior tibial region were still anting in tone. I have seen him several times since; the operation has succeeded so r “ recovery of the position of the foot is concerned, but the muscles have not igained their power, and he is obliged to walk with a stick or crutches. The result is case, as well also as of those vari already mentioned as following palsy from ettung, led me in two or three instances to try the effect of dividing the Achilles’ Gained h°rse'f°°t wa* just be£inninS in children so paralysed, but no benefit ■ i2) 3!’Paratu's 1 have described for the treatment of club-foot, (par. 1379, note 1 even the fractured patella stirrup, will answer very well for drawing and fixing up eJZllD a ,Pr0.pcy Position. Indeed, this distortion of the foot is the most easy of ram fivP.wl1 Tf f ^ed bJi a careful person merely with a shoe having tap Is or ebeedJFsT’ fastened above on either side of a circular banda|e above d.—OF HOOK-FOOT. ( Talus, Lat.; Hakenfuss, Germ.; Pied-bot calcarien, Fr.) 13S9. Hook or Heel-foot consists in the tip of the foot being directed irm«n an( ,Its back t?wards the frorit of the shin-bone, so that the foot stenniniCUtb ^ f W1,th the leS’ often even rests on the shin-bone, and f 3’ thf heel only touches the ground. This deformity is always omb t^1’and. manifestly consequent on the position of the foetus in the omb. Often immediately after birth, when tl.e foot is very much drawn