[ 392 ] Y._OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. Morand, Collection de plusieurs Observations singulieres sur des corps Grangers, 1< uns appliques aux parties naturelles, d’autres insinucs dans la vessie, et d’autres dans 1 fondement; in Mem. de l'Acad. de Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 606. 1 ^ ' * VON Walther, Bcobacbtung eines fremden Korpers von ungewohnlicher Grosse '» Mastdarme; in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. i. p. 4.35. 1750. Foreign bodies may be introduced through the anus into th rectum, either voluntarily or accidentally, in making a careful examinatio for certain things; or bodies which have been swallowed, after havin passed through the bowels, may remain a longer or shorter time in th rectum ; the passage of the swallowed body, however, in general causes n difficulty, as it is involved in a thick mass of stool. If the foreign body L the rectum excite symptoms, they depend on its peculiar form or it great size. [(1) Phillips (a) mentions the case of an old man brought into St. Mary-le-bon Infirmary, who was delirious, and complained of having a stick in his rectum, an being unable to sit up without pain; but as no other information could be obtaine about it, and no stick could be detected on examining the bowel, it was believed h was labouring under some delusion. A clyster was however given, but no stick wa passed. On the third day he died, and on examination, at six inches above the a mu was found the inferior extremity of a stick, which was about as thick as an ordinary indicator finger; it was covered with its bark, and carefully rounded at each end. It superior extremity had passed through the sigmoid flexure of the colon into the paw toneal cavity to the extent of four inches. The peritoneeum was highly inflamed tliroug. its whole extent, but there was very little thickening about the tissues in the immediat vicinity of the perforated point. There was no appearance of disease in the rectum' McLaughlan (b) relates the history of a Greenwich pensioner, aged forty-nine who having introduced an immense plug of wood fitted to the anus, for the purpose c stopping a diarrhoea, fell accidentally upon a stool, and forced it up into the gut. Eign days after he applied for assistance, having in the mean while suffered severely fror continual efforts to void his stools and urine, which last was done with great difficult}* The whole belly was considerably enlarged, and felt knotty from the stools so Ion., retained. The end of the forefinger could barely reach the plug on account of th inflamed and swollen state of the gut, which had begun to suppurate. The ordinary in struments were unavailing for its removal, and a peculiar pair of forceps were inven e for the purpose, and fitted upon it with a screw. The operation was very painru and required much force. In the course of a fortnight he completely recovered. A case is reported by Johnson (c) of a man who died immediately after Wan* admitted into King’s College Hospital; he had been labouring under obstruction at a bowels for five days, having eaten a large quantity of peas on the previous day; an during the last three days had also suffered from retention of urine. During * ’ time he had had severe pain in the belly, costiveness, and bilious vomiting; P’11^8 were given without relief; and when admitted he was much debilitated, Ins tonure. pale and shrunken; skin cold, and pulse feeble. On examination, the b 8 found distended, its base nearly at the brim of the pelvis, and its top reaching navel. The intestines were distended with air ; but the rectum contained UPW8. pint of gray peas, which had been swallowed dry and almost without mastication,, had not undergone any other alteration than becoming swollen; some were ^ stool in the colon, but the greater number were on the rectum, where! they fornu ■ mass, occupying almost the entire pelvic cavity, pushing up the bladder andprosta o compressing the urethra, so that there was considerable difficulty m passing t (2) Brodie (d) mentions the case of a person who had obstruction ot we_ caused by a piece of apple core which he had swallowed on the day 1 _ ^ Welbank tells me iliat on a similar occasion he pulled out a piece of rcr < < about an inch and a half long, part of a mutton chop which had beer swallowed.] _ ^ nhstTUC 1751. The symptoms occurring under such circumstances are, tion, or entire prevention of passing stools, very severe tenesmus, i V) I/ondon Med. Gaz., vol. xxix. p \b) Ibid , vol. xxx. p. 462. 1842. 846. 1842. Ibid., p. 605. Ibid., vol. xvii. p. 27. 1886.