STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 373 d Upon breaking through strictures with the conical catheter, refer to Retention of Urine ILTisia.) 1701. In stricture of the urethra behind the bulb, especially if a hard, i iff bougie be used, if with it, or with a catheter, force be employed, or if • iere be abscesses near the urethra, its walls may be easily torn, and by ! ie entrance of the catheter or bougie, a false passage formed either in ie spongy substance of the urethra or in the space between the bladder id the rectum. This is easily perceived when the instrument is pushed trwards, with much pain, and on its withdrawal, which is done readily, i ;) urine, but only blood flows out. This false passage, in most instances, venders the introduction of a bougie or catheter difficult or impossible, Because they always run into it. The careful impress with Ducamp’s ex- loring sound, and the introduction of a straight bougie or sound, or the i (plication of caustic with Lallemand’s sound, in the proper direction •' the urethra, may render the introduction of the catheter possible. If this cannot be done, and infiltration of urine occur, the following k iust be the treatment. A sound must be passed into the urethra as deep b* possible, and a cut made from without towards its point, which will cer- ■ inly be found behind the stricture. If the false passage be between the - rethra and the body of the penis, the urethra will be laid open, the v lint of the sound having been first bared. A sound is to be introduced 9 'ito the opened urethra, thrust towards the plans, and the stricture broken irough; or two sounds must be introduced, one by the mouth of the rethra, and the other by the wound to the stricture, and pressed together i the proper direction, for which purpose a pointed sound is best; and >i aus the stricture is penetrated. An elastic catheter is then introduced om the opening of the urethra in the wound, and carried into the ladder. If the false passage be between the urethra and the external i on, the cut must be made through the latter upon the sound, the urethra pened, and an elastic catheter introduced. The treatment of the wound to be conducted according to the rules already laid down {par. 965.) [I cannot agree with the method, here recommended by Cheeius, of passing the •und into the bottom of the false passage ; for, if this be done, there will be consider- >le difficulty in finding the urethra. The instrument should be carried down only to e stricture, and then its point cut upon; which done, the stricture must be cautiously it through, from before, backwards in the mesial line, by little and little, and the ethra behind the stricture continually sought for with a probe’s point, the patient ■>ng at the same time directed to strain, so as if possible to force out urine, the point escape of which will afford a guide to the exact track of the urethra. Much caution requisite, that the urethra be not completely cleft, and the suspensory ligament deeply it into, by which the difficulty in discovering the urethra is considerably increased. U 1S,?i. acci(lel:lt t0 which young and not much practised operators are very liable to ,1b and be sorely hampered by. The division of a stricture, and the re-connexion of portl°i‘s of the urethra by a catheter, is generally an operation of difficulty er the most favourable circumstances, but when the neighbourhood of the canal has ,av hi0Ugii Up Wlth false Passages, the difficulties are considerably increased. It ; V We t0. me,ition, that the first cut should be made in the raphe, and the whole . m the mesial line; and I do not think any material damage is done thrnmh8 t lr°Ugh th.e. bulb of the Penis’ which, indeed, is often absolutely necessary, lerel.v P[acU‘loners imagine that the generative functions of the organ are y interfered with, to -which, however, I do not assent.—J. F. S.] . Ilf Wh,en the urethra is closed, as a vice of the first formation, there rowirfV ia suPerficial membranous closure of its mouth, or the «i to i°^e* l(i,r may deeper situated. In the former case, the prepuce e ra'vn ^ack over the ylans, till the tip of the glans is exposed,