712 TREATMENT OF SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. have a doughy feel, and bear even a severe examination without paii Whilst the tumour is small, the skin covering it has its natural character but when it has reached a large size, the superficial veins swell considei ably, the skin becomes tight, inflames, and ulcerates. This ulceratio usually brings about a partial and sometimes total destruction of th swelling, and the effect on the constitution is consequently in general ver considerable. During the progress of sarcomatous tumours, various dis eased changes may occur in the mass of which they consist. According to microscopic examination, desmoid, sarcomatous, steatomatous, chondroi and fibroid swellings have been classed together as fibrous tumours, as in their perfw state they consist of fibres which interweave them in all directions, or are disposed wit a certain de°ree of regularity, sometimes without any other element, even without vessel* and sometimes only sparingly traversed by vessels. The fibrous structure is not alway distinct- in tumours of this kind, still in a state of development, there is often a formles mass, the blastema for fibres to be subsequently produced, or blackish cells. (Vogel.) 2283. The cause of these tumours is always previous inflammation, o at least an increased degree of vascular activity, which is produced eithe by external violence, or dyscrasic affections, especially scrofula and sy phiiis. In consequence of these processes, there is a deposition of plasti* exudation, into which vessels shoot, or the nutrition of any one organ i greatly increased, and on the continued deposit of an homogeneous sub stance, and great development of the vascular system the further growth of the swelling depends. 2284. The treatment may, at the commencement of these tumours prevent their growth by diminishing their unnatural vital activity, o: may effect their diminution, by repeated application of leeches, by con tinued cold bathing, purgatives, compression, and the like. If the swelling become larger, it must be removed by extirpation, or by tying the vascuiai trunks going to it, or it may be diminished by introducing a seton; under which last treatment it is destroyed partially by suppuration partially bj the inflammation which obliterates its nourishing vessels. Extirpation managed in the same way as the removal of encysted tumours. [The removal of these swellings by the knife is infinitely preferable to tbe jntrodnc tion of a seton or to tying the nourishing vessels, either of which is very tedw^ -, tiresome, and the latter often very offensive to the,patient from the sloughing » ensues, and very uncertain, as the vessels which afford the principal nutriment may too deep to be got at.—J. F. S.] XIV.—OF LARDACEOUS TUMOURS. (Stcatomatn, Lat.; Spcckrjeschwiilste-, Germ.; Ste'atomes, Fr.) Choj’Aht, Essaies sur les Loupes; in Prix de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. _ Gendrin, Mdmoircs sur les Caracteres anatomiques des Loupes de'signes sous e no de Lipome et de Steatome; in Journal ge'ue'ral de Mcdecine, 1828, vol. cm. p- -1 • Chelius, in Ileidelb. klin. Annalen, vol. iv. part iv. ^ Heyfelder, De Steatomate, Commentatio par loco in Senat. Acad. Erlang- obtinend. ... ^ 2285. Lardaceous Tumours are more or less large but firm s. -consisting of different, but generally globular masses, which contain 'u them in differently formed spaces, a whitish, tallowlike, more or lesS ^ substance, developed either in the cellular tissue beneath the skin, o interstitial tissue of an organ. , ^ Boyer (a), who, like many other writers, has under the name of ( 1 (n) Traite dcs Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 401. l’aris, 1822. Tliird Edition-