PESSARIES AND 110 nature of the case may seem to require, will sometimes fulfil the intentions of the ]>rac- titiouer better than either employed alone; and so of all the other mineral astringents which have been in use.” p. 101. Of the vegetable astringents, cortex quercus cortex j qranati qallce, possess a great degree of astringency. | hey give out their' astrmgei.t j properties to water more readily by boiling than by infusion, and therefore the decoctions ■ of them are to be preferred ; they may be used alone, or some of the mmeral astnngOTts* may be dissolved in them. By these means are procured astringent fluids of such strength, that the vagina may be so much contracted as even to render the introduction of he pq>e of the female syringe difficult. Astringent injections should be thrown into the part. I twice or thrice a (hay, or oftener, and they should be used cold. (p. 1 )3.) Upon the subject of injection, Clarke states, that “ whenever ,t is found necessary to inject fluids into the vagina, and important that they should remain there for any time, the operation should be'performed when the woman is in a recumbent position ; and if f n nillow is nreviouslv placed under the hips, in order to raise them a little, the fluid I will be lessPlikely to escape. The syringe to be employed should be capable of hold mg as much fluid as will fill the vagina.” He objects to the mode in which the holes are generally made in the syringe, by which either the fluid passes out too quickly, or lttle or none reaches the upper part of the vagina, “ but if the holes are all placed at the extremity of the pipe, the injection will be thrown to the upper part of the vagina, and will bp sure of return by the sides.” (p. 95-7.) . , I “ When ulceration has attacked the vagina, in consequence of exposure to air andM pressure,” Clarke recommends that “ a small quantity of some warm ointment be ap- U plied to the parts affected by it, such as the following R bah. Peruv. 3ij., ling. cetacaM 3JV^ CLARKE3objeets to the use of sponge, as “ the worst material which can be em- jj ployed for pessaries; it is porous, and will very quickly imbibe the moisture of he ; P L TW niwc of snou o-e must be large, compared with the size of the vagina, or lta ^i be uLlesPs and ifh ifla'ge, the vagina (the dilated state of which was one of the causes of the disease) will be still further dilated; and although whilst the spon^e is • warm the uterus will rest upon it, and the symptoms may be relieved, yet when It ,s • removed the disease will return m an increased degree, (p. n“;)J 1276. Pessaries, (Mutter krcinze, Germ.; Pessaire, Fr.,) in referenced)* their form and substance, are very various ; they are oval, round globular. . cylindrical, furnished with a stem, and so on ; they are made of wood, or r cork, caoutchouc, and covered with wax or varnish (a). 1977 The oval pessary, made of cork overspread with wax, and i vided iii the middle with an opening not too large, is the most serviceable. It keeps its place whilst the two ends of the oval thrust against the sides of ,evTginaPand pelvis. It is to be applied in the Hlowmgvtay Tte patient, her rectum and bladder having been previous y emptied, lies on « Per back with her rump raised, her thighs apart, and bent towards thjl belly, the labia are to be separated with two fingers of the left hand, anjj with the right hand the pessary, held flat, is to be thrust so high mt° the ranina, that the mouth of the womb may meet its aperture when it » brought horizontal, and its two ends jut on both sides against the pelvwM bones The patient must remain in the horizontal posture some hour# after the introduction of the pessary to ascertain if it still keep ita> P™!* nlnce A larger pessary must be cliosen if the womb again prolaps , nJDH a smaller onefif that introduced cause too much presure. At the same time the strengthening remedies, already mentioned, (par ^75,) must sed If pre-nancy occur, the pessary should be removed about the tM* t„rth month. The patient must then keep herself quiet, avoid all exertion, and, in delivery, all pressure and excitement of labour-pains £ (ns iiunold, Dissert dePessaire.. Mnrb., 1779. —iwiRNSTBiN, Systemati»clie IJaretPllur^g rachouc. l’jiris, 1833.—ZiMMBnM,NN, l-rl7,h- rungen und Mittheilungen bewalirter Acret Wundai'rzte ncurer Zoit fiber Prolapsus un‘ - . cinema I'tcri nebst einer grfindlichen UelrucIITO der Pessarien. Leiptig, 1834. fob N"-. M —Gemeimsame Zeitachnft tiir die Geburt* ■" vol. vi. pt. I. ii.