544 STONE IN THE BLADDER ; fP *• i spasmodic contraction of the cremaster muscle; no relief is experienced until tl calculus has escaped from the lower orifice of the ureter, and entered the bladder; br as soon as this has happened, the patient’s tortures, for they truly deserve that appell; tion, are at an end. (p. 66.) It seldom happens that the excretory duct of the kidne is completely obstructed, but when it is so the necessary consequence is that the urir becomes accumulated in the infundibula, and that these become dilated to a large siz forming membranous cysts; while the glandular structure of the organ is expands itt and in a great measure absorbed from the pressure which is thus exercised upon it. 1 some cases, you find at last the kidney converted into a large membranous bag, on tl surface of which scarcely a vestige of the glandular structure is perceptible, while tl interior of it is composed of a number of cells communicating with each .other, and a containing urine.” (p. 68.) . “ But a calculus (a) may be of such size as to be stopped in its passage to the bladde and retained in the ureter. One might suppose, that under these circumstances, tl ureter would become more and more dilated, and at last burst, as the urethra burs~ behind a stricture. I cannot say this never happens; and indeed Morgagni quote a case from another writer, in which there is reason to believe that such an ever- actually occurred. However, this is not the constant order of events, as the followin case, which occurred to Brodie, will prove; a person for several years had bee subject to the formation of renal calculi, which were passed by the urethra. At lai however, an attack came on, no stone passed, and he ceased to void urine; a catheter wi passed, but no urine flowed ; the patient became comatose, and died ten or twelve day after.” In one kidney there were several calculi; there were none in the other. 1 a alter. in oue lnuuc) tucic vrc.c , ' . , , . the latter and in the upper part of that canal, there was a calculus, as it were wedged u of about the size of a horse bean. A patient died also under Travers s care, with tb oi aDOUt me size ui a. uuisc ucou. — ; .—' , same symptoms, having each ureter where it arises from the pelvis ot the kidney con pletely obstructed by a calculus.” (pp. 241,42.) Persons may also die from suppuration occurring in the kidney, whilst its escape l prevented by a stone blocking up the ureter. A case of this kind is related by Astle Cooper (b) as having occurred to the elder Cline ; he had operated on a boy for ston in the bladder. “ The boy had recovered from the operation, when he was seized wit rigors, great pain in the course of the ureter, and vomiting; a swelling formed just abov the seat of the ccccum, in the right iliac fossa, which gradually increased, and the boy constitution quickly gave way. On examination after death, the pelvis of the kidne. and the ureter were found distended with matter; and at the end of the ureter near tb bladder, a stone was discovered, which had prevented the escape of the urine and matte into the bladder, and thus occasioned death.” (p. 225.) He mentions also the case of •• woman who “ had great pain in her loins, and tenderness in her abdomen, with so muc) fever, that she did not live long. * * * Upon making an incision intothe ufeW there issued a strong urinous smell, and a watery fluid mixed with matter. 1 he lutes tines were inflamed and adherent; the bladder was small; one kidney was mud enlarged, and the other unaltered; the ureter of the enlarged kidney was greatl. increased in size, and full of matter; it was completely closed at the lower partby . calculus, and had given way above, so as to allow of the escape of the urme and mat into the abdomen.” (p. 226.) He also relates one case in which a stone stop^d for som time in the ureter, and the latter having become adherent to the colon, ulceration emu«i and the stone was discharged by stool; and another where “ an abscess forme n anterior superior spinous process of the ilium from which a calculus and a qu‘ v matter were discharged, and the patient recovered.” (p. 227.) , (2) As to treatment, Asti.ev Cooper recommends large bleeding, , opium, liquor potasses, to allay irritation, and the abdomen to be fomented, and rubbed from above downwards to assist mechanically the passage of the caicui (p. 227.)] IV.—OF STONE IN THE BLADDER. (Calculus Vesicalis, Lat.; Harnblasenstein, Germ.; Culculc I c'sical, Fr.) 2019. Stone in the urinary bladder is either primarily formed in the kidnev and enlarges in the bladder, or it forms in the bladder, as n •negations on foreign bodies. The variety of stone in the « Bladder is very great, as regards shape, size, number, and position , on these, in part, depends the severity of the symptoms which it exci (a) Lectures, at the head of this article. (b) Lectures, vol. ii.