RECURRENCE OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. 768 cancer is seated, the less hereditary the disposition or general disease-. ** accompanying it, the more it is the consequence of local disease, the better * the constitution, and the more recent the disease, the more favourable It Ida •the prognosis. When several cancerous ulcers or scirrhi exist at the same > time, and the cancerous dyscrasy has already affected the whole body, the , disease is, according to my present experience, incurable. Scarpa assumes that scirrlms in its first period is merely a deposited, malignanM hind of germ, which is produced in the constitution, but is developed by the living powers, and is most intimately connected with any one of the conglomerate glands, or upon any one part of either the external or internal skin, where it is concealed and remains latent; but that in cancer, the hitherto harmless and latent deposit is converted into a cancerous ichor, and produces general dyscrasy. He supposes also that the removal of the scirrlms whilst in its painless state can alone have a successful result. [Travers has most justly observed, that “ not unfrequently the scirrhous tumour is perfectly inert from the period of its formation to the close of life, undergoing very slight, if any, increase, and giving, when mental apprehension is appeased, no trouble to the subject of it. A lady under his observation had been many years so situated, enjoying uninterrupted health, though considerably above seventy years of age.”. (p. 214.) Brodie (a) mentions one case in which the patient had scirrhous disease ot the breast for several years, he believes ten or fifteen; and another, “who had a scirrhous tumour of the breast twenty-five years, and she died at last, not from the disease of the breast, but from effusion into the cavity of the ehest.” (p. 211.) Such cases, I suspect/ are more frequent than generally believed. I have known a few instances, one of which indeed was in a relative, who suffered only occasional slight shooting in the' breast, for at least twenty years, during which the tumour did not increase in size after its early growth to the size of a walnut. So long, therefore, as the disease remains in i this quiet condition, I am disposed to believe that it is best left alone; for scarcely \ any, if indeed any, treatment has other effect than exciting an increase of the diseased. - action, and hurrying on the fatal result. Very few Surgeons have any reliance in the employment of internal and external remedies for the cure of cancer, even when in the scirrhous state; and the large experience of those who, in the course of operating; practice, have extirpated cancerous tumours iu their several stages, has been mosta lamentably unsatisfactory, the disease speedily recurring in the scar of the operation- wound, and the patient often quickly cut off.—J. F. S.] 2408. The cure of scirrlms and cancer requires either the dispersion of the tumour by internal and external remedies, or its removal by the knife or escharotics. [Leroy d’Etioli.ks (b) has given the following interesting facts relative to the treat- ment of cancer “ The mean duration of the life of persons not operated on is five years for men, and five years and six months for women; whilst, on the contrary, with those*| who have undergone the operation, the mean is five years and two months for nun, six years for women. It must, however, be borne in mind, that the class of t wse n operated on includes cancer of the viscera, which is so certainly and promptly, or most part, fatal. By withdrawing these, the mean duration of men not operation, six years, or one year more than in those upon whom the operation has been per or • If, however, it be inquired, what time elapses between the appearance of the disia. the one hand, and on the other, between the operation and death, on taking "ie‘, , the results of three hundred operations on men, the duration of life will be found to been three i/ears and nine months before, and one year and five months after the opera* • For women, the result of four hundred and twelve operations, gives, before the o/er - three nears and six months ; after the operation, two years and six months, fcxti p does not, therefore, prolong life. (pp. 454, 55.) Of eight hundred aud one ca.^ operated on, one hundred and seventeen were performed in less than a >carJT, nc appearance of the disease; of these one hundred and seventeen there are Xd, have returned; hut ns of the number eidu hundred and one npemp.» hundred and twelve had been performed within less than a year, at the tim gt received the observations of the physicians, we must believe that P^^ions per- the present time still greater. If, however, we examine the results of opera Y" (a) Lectures illustrative of various subjects in (6) Bulletin de 1'Academic Koyale »le Mfd**1*’ Pathology and Surgery. London, 1846. vol. m. 1S4.W4. <•■■■ ! mmset