664 ENLARGEMENT OF THE CLITORIS Li those cases only, where there is a partial, defined swelling of the thyroid glan which is movable or has a neck, and which is unconnected with the deep importai organs of the neck, is extirpation to be held indicated. The skin is to be divided t the tumour and separated from it on each side, the swelling drawn well forwards with hook, and its cellular connexions carefully separated with some strokes of the knife, j doing which the blood must be cautiously sopped up with a sponge, the spouting vessel] tied directly, and if possible before they are cut through. If the neck of the swellic be connected with any important organ, if there be reason to fear any vessel runnin through it, the rest must be tied. The treatment of the wound is to be con duett according to the general rules (a). [Green operated in 1829 on a bronchocele of this kind in a wroman twentx nine years old. The swelling was as big as the fist, growing from a small bas on the right side; its surface presented many enlarged veins, and an artery of equ; size with the radial ran across its base; it was very firm and irregularly lobnlatec- Two semicircular cuts, meeting above and below, and including the skin covering tb swelling, were made, and the divided veins bled freely. The artery was found an tied; but in doing so was wounded, and there was much bleeding. The base of th tumour was then cleared, and bleeding from the jugular vein was stopped by pressur upon it. The windpipe and the sheath of the carotid artery were exposed as the bas? of the swelling was isolated, and a strong ligature having been passed round it, th tumour was removed at a stroke, and the bleeding ceased; but it recurred half-an-hon after, was evidently venous, and stopped by pressure. In the course of a few day> suppuration ensued, and the ligature was removed, but low fever ensued, and she diei on the tenth day after the operation.] 2186. In cases in which, on account of its siluation and condition' the extirpation of the bronchocele has seemed to be indicated, tying it a its base has been performed successfully by Mayor in three, and by Bach (b) in two, instances. The skin is divided by a crucial cut upon the swelling, the flaps dissected back to their base, and the neck of the tumour isolated as far as possible with the finger. A strong ligature i.‘ then applied around it, and tied with a loop-tier. According to Mayor. the ligature should be tied as tight as possible; but according to Bach only lightly for the first two or three days, for the purpose of preventing the violent pain, symptoms of choking, bleeding by cutting through a vessel, and inflammation of the veins, but afterwards it is to be tightened.- When the tumour has mortified, it should be cut off' in front of the liga-. ture, which must then be tightened, so as to hasten throwing off the stem. This tying, after previously laying bare the neck, is indeed less dangerous than extirpation; it is, however, very hazardous. The whole swelling must become gangrenous, so that a mass of filth remains till it is entirely thrown off, and there is still a horrible wound, which always leaves an ugly scar; besides which the inflammation and symptoms of suffocation may be very severe. Regal de Gaillac (c) has made use of the subcutaneous ligature for removing bronchocele. III.—OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE CLITORIS AND OF THE LABIA. (Hypertrophic, Cliloridis et Labrorum. Lat.; Vergrosserung der Klitoris und der Schaamlippen, Germ.) 2187. The clitoris may, either as a congenital vice, or as consequent on early masturbation, enlarge to such size as more or less to destroy the* functions of the female generative organs, and even be capable of leading to vicious practices. The condition of the clitoris may be, excepting it® (a) IIkdknds; in von Gbakfk und von Wal- (ii) IIirtz ; in Gazette Medicalede Paris, vol-1*- thew s Journal, vol. ii. p. 240.—Gr.vkfe, see p. 9. 1841. . IIedenus, De UlandulaThyreoidca turn sanaquam -v-v—i •n.Smiv.ntinue. morbosa, p. 267. Lips., 1822.—Mandt; in Rust's Magazin, vol.xxxvii. partiii. p. 337.—ZartmanN, Dissert, de Struma) extirpatione. Bomnc, 1829. p. 9. 1841. (c) Bulletin general de TMrapeotique. Oct.—Liston; in Lancet. 1841, vol. ’. P- ' , —A. Sanson, DesTumeurs du CorpsThvreo leur Traitcmcnt. These de Concours. l«r»i