22 CURE, SPONTANEOUS AND morning; he should also have several trusses for the purpose of change. 1 lie part on which the truss rests should be frequently washed with brandy till the teguments are accustomed to its pressure. If excoriations occur the parts should be washed frequently with lead wash, whitelead should be strewed over it, and a thick piece of linen applied beneath the truss. 1150. Various diseases in the neighbourhood of the opening upon which the pressure must be made, and an imperfectly reduced rupture may prevent the use of the truss. Large ruptures are extremely difficult to reduce, and often new ruptures occur afterwards in other parts. In children the use of an elastic truss is not only acompanied with no injury, as many suppose, but it is to be preferred to the use of an inelastic one. * 1151. When an adhesion prevents the return of a rupture to such extent that part of it remains external, a truss with a hollow pad may be used ; but in very large irreducible ruptures a suspendor sufficient to enclose it, should be used to prevent the further protrusion of the intestine. In these ruptures the gradual return is effected by long-continued lying on the back, by slender diet, purging, frequently cold applications over°the rupture, and by daily repeated attempts at reduction, which has occurred to me in several cases of very large and adherent ruptures. When in large ruptures the walls of the belly are so contracted that the parts in the rupture have scarcely any room in the belly, the same treatment is indi- cated. frequently in such cases, after the reduction and the application of a truss, anxiety, oppression, pain, small pulse, and so on occur, and it becomes necessary to remove the truss, after which the symptoms, as I have observed, subside. 1152. When the intestines are properly kept up by the truss, the hernial sac gradually contracts, and at the same time a slow inflammation arises, consequent on the pressure of the truss, by which perfect adhesion of the neck of the hernial sac takes place, and thus a radical cure is effected. This commonly happens in children, frequently in adults, but never in old persons. On account of this gradual narrowing of the neck of the hernial sac, under the continued use of the truss, the latter may not be ao-ain removed if it be not believed certain that the radical cure is effected; because otherwise, in repeated protrusions of the intestines, strangulation may also arise from the contracted neck of the sac. Whilst the patient wears the truss he must avoid all violent exertion. [Cloquet considers that a hernial sac may be returned spontaneously into the belly in four different ways. First, by the contractility it possesses in common with other tissues, having a constant tendency to retract the sac upon itself, after its distension, and which is, in some cases, sufficient to produce a gentle and gradual return. “ The sac then takes a retiogiade movement to that of its formation j the peritoneum passes from the ring towards the parts it had left, that portion of this membrane, which had been drawn towards the ring without passing through it, pulls the neck in every direc- tion, which expands, turns out in some degree, disappears, and at last is effaced; the sac unfolds, and again covers the wall of the belly, near the aponeurotic opening. The neck of the sac, which was last formed, disappears first, whilst its bottom disappears last, and with great difficulty, so that the reduction is often incomplete.” (p. 74.) When a rupture has been thus reduced, the remains of the neck are sometimes observed at a little distance from the ring, in the shape of irregular sti/ymata, whitish, and more or less opaque. The peritoneum, which formed the sac, is restored to the abdominal .. wall. * * * Sometimes these sacs are so completely effaced, that no trace of them can : I be found in the peritoneum covering the ring by which they had escaped. The only indication of a rupture having existed at this spot, is a cellular, whitish, empty pouch, i arising from the aponeurotic ring.” (p. 7G.) Second, “ by the closing, the gentle and insensible contraction of the cellular tissue external to the sac. The other tunics may