DISTINCTION OF INGUINAL RUPTURE FROM HYDROCELE. 59 1197. The coverings of congenital inguinal, are the same as those of external or oblique inguinal rupture, except that the hernial sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis propria. In rare cases a second lengthening of the peritoneum may descend into the still open canal of the vaginal tunic, by which the intestines descending into this sac are sepaiated from the testicle (a). The congenital inguinal rupture is mostly intestinal, because the omentum is very short ; it may however contain a portion of omentum if it have been adherent to the testicle in the belly (1). Narrowing of the hernial sac occurs most frequently in congenital inguinal ruptures, and consequently often several nearly perfectly closed hernial sacs are formed (V). [(1) This is Astley Cooper’s Encysted Hernia of the Tunica Vaginalis, in which “ on opening the tunica vaginalis, instead of the intestine being found lying in contact with the testicle, a second bag or sac is seen enclosed in the tunica vaginalis, and enve- loping the intestine. This bag is attached to the orifice of the tunica vaginalis, and descends from thence into its cavity ; it generally contracts a few adhesions to the tunica vaginalis, whilst its interior bears the character of a common hernial sac.” Cooper considers that in this case “ the tunica vaginalis, after the descent of the testicle, becomes closed opposite the abdominal ring, but remains open above and below it. The intestine descends into the upper part, and elongates both the adhesion and tunica vaginalis, so as to form it into a bag, which, descending into the tunica vaginalis below the adhesion, and becoming narrow at its neck, though wide at its fundus, receives a portion of intes- tine. * * * The disease does not appear like hernia of the tunica vaginalis, as the testis is not involved in it, but can be distinctly perceived below it. * * * The strangulation arises from the contracted state of the mouth of the hernial sac.” (p. 79-80.)] 1198. Various swellings which occur in the inguinal region must be distinguished from ruptures ; such are hydrocele, varicocele, inflammatory swelling of the spermatic cord, arrest of the testicle at the abdominal ring, collections of fat in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord, collection of pus. 1199. It is hardly possible to mistake a collection of water in the tunica vaginalis propria for a rupture. If the hydrocele be large, it may extend up to the abdominal ring and seem to penetrate within it, but if the swelling be drawn a little down, it will be seen that it does not lie in it, and that the ring is in its natural condition. In hydrocele the swelling ascends gradually towards the abdominal ring. The functions of the intestinal canal are undisturbed; lying on the back and coughing have no effect on the swelling. Congenital hydrocele, where indeed water is collected in the canal of the vaginal tunic, has greater resemblance to rupture ; however, the consistence of the swelling, its transparency, its more easy or more difficult reduction, its quicker or slower reprotrusion, give the explanation (1). The diffused collection of water in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord (Hydrocele tunicce vaginalis communis) has the greatest resemblance to an omental rupture. The swelling which ori- ginates along the spermatic cord is broader below than above, seems to diminish on slight pressure, though it recurs immediately the pressure is withdrawn on lying down and standing up. If there be fluctuation, it is only at the bottom ; if the bottom of the swelling be pressed, the fluid gently rises towards the apex, and expands it. If the swelling be within the abdominal ring, it stretches it; the patient often feels a pain at some part, and a dragging in the loins. As a distinctive character from omental rupture, it must be remembered that hydrocele of the cord has less con- (a) Hky, Practical Observations in Surgery. I.ondon, 1814, p. 226.—Cooper, Astley, above Meckel, Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 879. (b) Ciiei.ius, Ueber Verengerung des Bruch- snckesboi angeborncn Brfichen ; in neuen Chiron, vol. i. pt. i.—Liman, Beobnchtungen iiber das normwidrige Verhalten des Bruchsackes; in Jour- nal von Giiaefe und von Waltheu, vol. v. pt. i. p. 97.