979 OF THE HIP-JOINT. fracture close to the little trochanter, enlarged the wound upwards, and after dividing the capsule and round ligament, he removed the three pieces of the head and also the bullet. The patient died eighteen days after. Hewson (a) performed this operation for caries; the bone was sawn off above the little trochanter. The patient died three months after, in consequeuce of the burrowing of a large quantity of pus, which passed by an opening in the hip-socket into the pelvis. Seutin (6), in a gun-shot wound which had split the neck of the thigh-bone to pieces, and injured the soft parts but little, made a cut from the crest of the hip-bone, to three inches above the great trochanter, adducted the limb, dipped into the bottom of the wound, and removed fifteen loose pieces of bone of various size and form; the lower fragment of the bone was lifted out of the wound and sawn off beneath the lowest split portion. The getting out the head of the bone, which was broken immediately in the cavity of the socket, was difficult; including the neck and head, six inches of the bone were removed. The contentive apparatus, and a half-bent posture on a double inclined plane, were employed. The patient died on the ninth day, of gangrene. Textor (c) has operated three times. In the first case, on a child seven and a half years old, on account of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, and abscesses following; the head of the bone, and two inches from the great trochanter, above the little trochanter, were removed. In the second case, in a young man of eighteen, for caries of the head of the bone, the patient died on the fourth day. In the third case, in a man of fifty-four years, on account of caries of the great trochanter, and of the neck of the thigh-bone six inches were removed, and the patient died on the fifty-third day. The interesting results after removal of the head of the thigh-bone in brutes, in refer- ence to the regeneration of bone, are given in Heine’s (d) experiments. , [Charles White would seem to have been the proposer of excision of the head of the thigh-bone, although he did not perform the operation, for he observes (e) I have likewise in a dead subject, made an incision on the external side of the hip-joint, and continued it down below the great trochanter, when cutting through the bursal ligament and bringing the knee inwards, the upper head of the os femoris hath been forced out ot its socket, and easily sawn off; and I have no doubt but that this operation might be performed upon a living subject with every prospect of success. The Royal Academy 0 Surgery at Pans proposed for a prize question, whether amputation of the thigh at 1 s articulation with the os innominatum, was ever advisable; but, was 1 under a necessity of performing this operation, or that which I have been describing I should not hesitate a moment which to prefer.” (p. 66.) The first successful excision of the head of the thigh-bone was performed in West- minster Hospital by Anthony White, in April 1822, to which Chelius refers above, trom the slight notice by Beai.e. It has since been fully published by S. Cooper ( f) from notes furnished by White, who has also kindly given me the following more concise account.—j. f. s. 6 “A°hH when nine years old, slipped down stairs and slightly hurt his eft hip. After a few weeks, he was observed to limp in his gait, and complained of stiffness and pain in his groin; and subsequently he lost the power of locomotion, had sthe usual symptoms of disease in the hip-joint, and the head of the thigh-bone became 1 iSaied and 7sted far ba<* on the dorsum ««. He suffered very acutely, and under! US,!a treatment„ of c"PP,ng> blistering, with every other mode of local and ■constitutional treatment for many months, but without benefit, and after a time sun I }l,e J°lnt took place, which was evacuated from the front and upper part of I !,e.*h,Sh- Temporary relief was thus obtained, but during two years a succession f ! T,lar, absce6:ses formed around, and small portions of bone were frequently motn led ! ;hX“g Atffie'end8 and’ m°re especially, from those formed over the es. At the end of the third year he was in the greatest possible state of emaciation “hSXffiTr8 afUte Pa'D’ bUt exhausted b? the previous suffering and y t - ft’resh abscesses hud for °, y g S Wlth, bedridden ulcerations. The formation of >PPrehend!d In ffie rnomb “bs.f.ased and further diseased processes were not g ;; the month ot APnl 11 "’as determined, on consultation with Tra- § {<!) ( Ippvwintrw ■ (a) Oppenhrim, above cited. {!>) Gazette Medicate de 1'aria, vol. i. p 135. )833 (c) Lepoi.d. F., Ueber die Resection des Hiift- ,nL,'i Resection des Hull- ■,olenkes. Wurzburg, l8:t4.-OppF.NimiMtn, S„ L ( motion.. c i» ( f\ n. .. P lv ? \c) vases anove citea. (/) Dictionary of I radical Surgery, p. 272. Edition of] 838. Ueber die Resection des Miiftselenkes. Wur, hum, 1840. d) Oppenhkimer, above cited, p. 51. <■) Cases above cited. 3 r 2