[ 408 ] idi II.—OF RETENTION OF BILE. Petit, Remarques sur les Tumeurs formees par la bile retenue dans la ve'sicule d § flel et qu’on a souvent prises pour des abces au foie; in Mem. de l’Acad de Chirurgu a vol. i. p. 155. ' All v Morand, Observations snv les Tumeurs a la vesicule du fiel; in same, vol iii. Bloch, Medicinisc.be Bemerkungen. Berlin, 1774 iv. Serastian, A. A., Dissert, de Hydrope vesicula; fellis. Heidelb., 1827. 1771. The already mentioned {par. 912) overfilling and distension o | the gall bladder when the outflow of the bile by the ductus choledochiu prevented, always occurs gradually. The patient, having previously los d his appetite, feels, for a longer or shorter time, a dull pain under the rib >i on the rio-ht side, which often extends to the region of the stomach an. ,ft loins. Afterwards there frequently occur, with previously lost appetite J. disturbed digestion, costiveness, pain in the right hypochondrion, and mor or less severe jaundice, symptoms of colic, the seat of which is, especiall^A' opposite the points of the ninth rib, accompanied with frequent vomiting -h febrile and other symptoms. If, under these circumstances, the painful fiat ■ of the right hypochondrion be examined, a more or less distinct round swel, 1 lino- is observed, projecting a little below the front edge of the liver, con l*; fused with it above, and more or less easily felt in different positions of th A body. The swelling, sometimes of itself, at other times at the very me ,rt ment when pressed, diminishes and is less tense, vvhereupon all the symptt;. toms diminish and bilious stools follow. If the distension of the bladde if be considerable, and have existed long, the swelling loses its mobility .1 becomes united to the peritonceum, and appears equally attached to th * wall of the belly and to the liver. Tin the Museum at St. Thomas’s is a gall bladder equal in size to the urinary bladde 1 of an ox, which was taken from a female patient who had been under the care c > Cheston of Gloucester. She had had a projection at the pit of the stomach for a ft K years, which, as it increased, caused her much pain, and was presumed to be an ab^ f of the liver. It was punctured and a considerable quantity of bile flowed out »1 wound was closed, but she died a few days after (a).—J. F. S.] 1772. It appears that in this disease the flow of bile into the mtestina i canal is most commonly not entirely prevented, and the patient has datUB- natural coloured motions. The disease may terminate in biliary nsta^Wi which case the gall bladder having adhered to the peritoneum, the W « collected in it makes its way out externally. The gall bladder may ais I grow to the colon or to any other intestine, and empty itself into it; or a union with the peritonceum having taken place, it may burst, and a tata effusion of bile into the cavity of the belly may ensue. [Sometimes when the ductus choledochus is obstructed, the gall bladder herent to the duodenum, ulceration takes place, and by this new opening the bi e * I continues to be discharged, and the functions of the gall bladder ceasing, it dimunsKfl to the size of an acorn, as in a preparation in St. Thomas s Museum. J. r. I 1773. As to the treatment of this disease, at first it is merely coo ■ to the use of those remedies which soothe or remove the irrdabie h inflammatory condition. At the same time it must be attempted,'oy bing, stroking, and pressing the swelling, to empty part of its o ^ . | into the duodenum, and to apply discutient remedies. As k) g I uncertain that there is considerable union of the gall bladder m * tonceum (which may indeed be presumed, although it cannot (a) MS. Lectures.