[ 848 ] B.—OF ARTIFICIAL HANDS. 2565. In Pliny (a) is found an example of the replacement of a lost hand by an iron one. The artificial hand of Gotz von Berlich— ingen is well known, and its mechanism has been described and en- graved by von Mecheln (b). Pare" (c) has given plates of artificial hands made of iron and boiled leather. Wilson (d) also manufactured them from leather. Ballif (e) of Berlin devised a contrivance more simple than von Berlichingen’s, by means of which without the assist- ance of the other hand, flexion and extension could be performed at will,. so that objects could be held firmly, and even a pen taken up and written with. Bending the fingers is effected with elastic springs, and straighten- ing with cat gut, by bending and straightening the arm. For the appli- cation of such artificial hands, it is always necessary that there should be a sufficient stump of the fore-arm. C.-OF ARTIFICIAL UPPER-ARMS. 2566. When sufficient stump is left after amputation, Graefe (/))j thinks that it may perhaps be supplied, as well as in lost fore-arm, by an i artificial hand, which must also have an artificial elbow-joint. 1 he upper- • arm must be surrounded with a sheath, from whence spiral springs pass to the fore-arm to effect the bending of the elbow-joint. Catguts fixed upon the opposite side, pass from the upper and hinder edge of the fore-arm to the armpit pieces of the chest-strap. If the arm, by bending the stump, be brought towards the chest, the fingers also by means of the springs, . remain so. If the stump be carried away from the chest by means of the stretching of the catguts, the elbow-joint, and also the fingers, are straightened. D—OF ARTIFICIAL NOSES AND EARS. 2567. If the organic reparation of the nose be impossible, or be not effected, there remains only its replacement by one made of silver plate, of lime wood, papier mache, and the like, to hide the deformity. It is evident that such nose should be made to correspond as well as possible to the form of the face, and should be coloured externally to match. I he fixing of this kind of nose, if only a small part of the original one be lost, is effected by smearing sticking plaster on its inner surface, or by sPn°jjjr in the nostrils, or by little bandages drawn through the nostrils into ie mouth, and attached to the teeth, or what is best by a spring passmgirorn the root of the nose over the temples to the back of the head. 1 mutilated person wear spectacles with his artificial nose, the deception i very complete (g). . l e 2568. Artificial ears are best made of silver, and fastened by a passing into the ear-passage, and a spring passing round the head. (a) Historia Naturalis, lib. vji. cap. xxix. il,l,ildung ha Uip piserne Hand des taplern Hitters Gii'rz tig. i. ii.—Gkissi.er, Beschreibnng unrt .l Je .....w.,p*^*«*«a x-f<=>-Hau;isi-r- abgebildet von Ch. v. Mechkln. Berlin, 1814. von U 1817. k. KSIMU—■ *— (<?) Graf.fe, above cited, p. 106-164, pi. vi. vol. ii. p. 10.3.