AMPUTATION BY THE CIRCULAR OPERATION. 907 his strict attention to that and none other, depends the easy course of the operation Of this I apprehend no one will doubt, who has had experience in the instruction of stu- dents.—J. F. S.j 2712. In performing the circular operation, the operator standing on the outside of the thigh proceeds in the following manner. Carryino- his right hand, in which he holds a straight bistoury, under the thigh over to its outer side, he places its edge vertically about a finger’s breadth above the kneecap, but always according to the thickness of the thigh, about three or four inches below the part where the bone is to be sawn through, and carrying it in a circular line around the whole thigh, at once divides the skin and underlying cellular tissue down to the fascia lata. The assistant now again diawsback the skin throughout its whole circumference, and the operator makes at the edge thus drawn back some slight cuts, by which the cellular tissue connecting the skin is divided, and the latter can be drawn back two fingers’ breadth. -JfA1!1®, sk.1° b® not divklcd at 0fe continuous circular cut, the cut upon the under part of the thigh must be first made, and then from the inner end of this the second is carried over the front of the thigh into the outer end of the first. The mere drawing , Skl? Just mentioned, is better than separating and making flaps of it. If the laigei amputating knife be used for this purpose, the cut will be less regular LNo withstanding Chelius prefers the circular cut and simple retraction, I think the nch S f °n th„t faCe,,°f the Stumk-if’ after tbat ^ done, it be divided about an ■inch vertically on either side, so as to make a sort of flap. The largeness of the knife tfnrke H m-fCh C?“SfqUenCe ’ but the best for the Performance of the operation is a heavy- backed knife, which cuts more certainly and correctly. I do not see any necessitv for l°ife ousht “be for 2713 The operator now, sinking on his right knee, carries the 3aro-e stiaight amputating knife, which he grasps with his whole right hand the upper part of the handle resting between the thumb and forefino-er ’and the rest of it enclosed by the other fingers, beneath the thigh, over to its outside, p aces its edge vertically at the edge of the retracted skin and puts the thumb and forefinger of the left hand upon the fore part of the back of the knife (1)- He then cuts through first the muscles on the outer side down to the bone, whilst he bears the knife towards himself and downwards, carry mg it round in a circle with a firm stroke, and cuts through the muscles down to the bone. At the moment when the knife reaches the back of the thigh the operator rises and finishes the cut stand- o- 1 lie assistant who had drawn back the skin, now grasps, with both hands in the muscular cut, in such way that the thumb abovJandthe nger below cioss, and draw back the superficial muscles, after which those still remaining attached to the bone are divided higher bv a circular cut. A third cut is now made in like manner bv wlmd. ti J C.1K; ar » also divided. By means of a cleft cloth, S uLTeft L 'fofwhS“7 placet! on the hi,,,! part of the thigh, and its ends Carrie,'on both side! of he bone to the front, the assistant holds back the muscles and the hm.n sawn through where the periosteum has been divided (2) towar^^ tbe ‘high, whilst the knife is drawn act, and that it is not necesslry^to carrv the whole e<1^' is ™da to to throw it that iq co ♦‘ ^ ^ari^ the knife round upon the outside of the thieh that the thumb is on tin 1 ? +£Ue P0Slt'011 °f the hand on the handle of the knife’ [1)1 do no see the ,otl,er fingers ‘he opposite side of the handle, upon the end of the knife bkde^lTnud„Vant.a8? ln Plauing the fingers of the left hand the knife with the right haid only entS thlS C0U"tr-v- we are “^tomed to use