417 FROM FOREIGN BODIES, FROM STONE. ^i ntroduced from the glans down to the stricture, showing the practicability of destroying f : with caustic.” In the same collection, there is also another instance of a stone jjthe urethra behind a stricture, in a boy of four years old, to which he refers, (p. 124,) irsa the same work. (2) Howship (a) gives a good example of blood filling the bladder, in an elderly Sw ban, who was attacked with what was at first supposed to be a retention of urine, and 9 catheter having been repeatedly passed without any urine escaping, it was thought not fsb have entered the bladder. He died on the following day, and on examination, the ■ladder was found entirely filled with a very large coagulum. In another case, he Hpiientions the bladder being nearly filled with blood, and containing a stone in the jfjentre of the clot. i, When blood is found in the bladder, it is more commonly from fungous growths il either from the bladder itself, or from the prostate, of which Bransby Cooper (6) ives good examples. • The case of Mathieu’s, quoted by Samuel Cooper (c), appears to me nothing more | bian an enlarged prostate, which the catheters first used were not of sufficient length to i Jiach beyond, and not retention from a clot in the bladder. ■ I have known, in two or three instances after the operation for the stone, blood to mdow back into the bladder, and there coagulating, prevent for a time the escape of i *rine, either from the urethra or from the wound. Indeed, if for some hours after the s) operation, urine do not pass from the wound, it may, be presumed something of this ii ind is going on, and the bladder requires gently washing out, through the wound, 'z !? ith a syringe. I j (3) Lawrence (d) relates a very remarkable instance of an undescribed species of :*>| orms voided from the urethra, to the amount of from eight hundred to a thousand, by :i ; woman, aged twenty-four years. He also mentions examples of the larvae of insects having been passed. Of discharges if' worms and insect larvae, and portions of the lining membrane of the bladder, which ! djive been mistaken for them, there is no lack in the accounts of various writers. | GO Foreign bodies, of various kinds, have frequently been purposely introduced into i vie urethra, and escaping from the fingers of the holder, have either lodged in it, or more | generally slipped back into the bladder. Bougies, and elastic catheters, and even those | jijf metal, have been thus occasionally circumstanced by accident, the whole of the t 'dinner being sucked in, as it were, by the bladder; and the latter having been broken, I -ing pushed in by unskilful endeavours to prevent their escape backwards. But ■ abaccd-pipes used as substitutes for bougies, are probably the most common foreign yxlies which are met with in the urethra or bladder. Tyrrell (e) had a case in which Shie patient broke off three inches of the curve of a silver catheter, which slipped S.jito the bladder. He walked to St. Thomas’s, a distance of about twenty-one miles Mom his residence, without much inconvenience, except that “occasionally in stooping, [Walking up stairs, or raising himself in bed, he experienced lancinating pain, as if some n iarp instrument were penetrating the bladder. * * * On passing a sound, it was >1 und lodged at the fundus of the bladder transversely; its extremities being embraced lay that viscus, so as to be held with some firmness.” It was brought lower with a 1. mnd, hut still remained transverse. Tyrrell “ then introduced one of Weiss’s instru- rt ents for extracting small calculi, which was nearly straight, and had a strong spring ; tfl i? careful examination with which, he discovered that the extremity of the foreign f 'xly towards the patient’s right side was free, and that the other was covered with a ft*" of the bladder. After several unsuccessful attempts, he succeeded in seizing the 'ee extremity with the instrument, and by withdrawing it very cautiously, brought the J >ece of catheter into the urethra, when the forceps slipped from it. He immediately Introduced his fingers into the rectum, for the purpose of compressing the urethra utween the foreign body and the bladder, so as to prevent any retrograde movement of II •a®** This be'ng secured, he again introduced the forceps into the urethra, and - menrst attempt caught the piece of catheter, and drew it out.” i ‘ am indebted to my friend Crisp, of Walworth, for the two following highly inter- | tmg cases, which were treated by himb 6 J ' -'U8C 1. All olfl sail nr lint! hoon In fV»Q linVxif r\P il.n 1 1 „ 1 _j.l_ _ O _