WITHOUT OPENING THE SAC. 45 light, and to a current of air, cannot hut have some influence upon the delicate circula- tion of the part, and be productive of some impression on the nerves of so susceptible a surface as that of a strangulated intestine. And if to these influences be added the handling which the gut usually experiences, the reaction that follows these agents, we must regard as a natural consequence and likely (as experience proves) to amount to excessive inflammation. In tracing the inflammation consequent upon an operation for hernia, it is found to spread from that portion of the bowel that has been strangulated over the peritoneal surface of the intestines, and not to have its origin from the incision in the sac, although two wounds are usually inflicted upon it, one for the purpose of exposing its contents, and another, higher up, to divide the stricture. The peritoneum about the seat of stricture exhibits fewer signs of acute inflammation than the invest- ment of the bowels.” (pp. 11, 12.) After giving an “outline of these cases,” Key observes, “ it is obvious that the attempt to relieve the stricture without exposing the contents of the sac, could not have been attended with any untoward consequences in any of the cases, with the exception of the two cases of gangrene, Nos. II and XII • and in these the symptoms denoting the approach or existence of sphacelus were sufficiently marked to point out to the operator the necessary mode of proceeding Some of the other cases, in all probability, would have been benefited had the sac been left entire, (p. 26.) Lawrence does not agree with Key in “ ascribing the unfavourable state of bowel which was found in so large a proportion of his thirteen eases, (the other two not having been operated on,) and which, I believe, will be met with in the majority of those who die after the operation, to the operation itself and its attendant circumstances, namely exposure to air and light, change of temperature and handling. I think it rather owing to the pressure of the stricture, which affects the parts, not like the slight violence of the operation, for a few minutes only, but uninterruptedly for hours, and sometimes days, disturbing the circulation, making an impression on the intestine as if it had been X so™etlmes causing ulceration either of the internal tunics or of e bowel in its whole thickness. That inflammation excited by this kind of injurv may cause death is clearly proved by Mr. Key’s cases. * * * When we find the dtel tines at the time of the operation mortified, as in cases II. and XII., distended and dis tat 11 C0Uld DOt !’? rePlaced’ aad squired to be opened, fs ifease V so mischief is ob-vdo^ly^inde^endeutof^h^l()^eratiorq mid*its thG StriCtUre> and ^ified theVrtTus' From a very careful consideration of the circumstances attendant on strangulated errand thTre^Tfi follow, S“u^e SETS mischief is rather owing to the “pressure of the stricture ” ti,„ '-, fCE , at tlle taJ; m ™PtUre '""Tl. d"™S *he Sr c’st ““xt Withoutinjuri irfg'the'textore ^°l^s Asides the inflammation proves destructive in its effects sXehTnTof the injury, with copious suppuration ensues, and the process of heafinl !he-ce/War membrane, common contusion and an *• UJe Plocess °t healing is tedious. Betwepn a analogy;TfiS of^txtur n’The tde taxis’ there" S the other. Inflammat oni.VCase’,leads ?>tbe same effects as exp t*>e other. Inflammatfon is in both XTesulZZfS* effeCrtS as -posureln impaired, disorganization in both cases follows ,1 110 'Vltallty of the parts being faction. If the contusion be not accomnan ed lw o 1 16 ^ons/q,UenCe of inflammatory anticipated; and just so if the hn.isJ crea,C1 °f the surface. no harm ' IS anticipated; and just so if the bruiscXcon tents & fX °f the surface, no harm wound of the peritoneal sac and !! “ contents of a henna are returned without a y&ps “docs pen the sac, is tha of X0? .a11 °.thers Fenders it imperative duty to open the sac is that of ’ that al’ove a11 others renders it an made by some Surgeons of experience !hat X'1'^ that “ 5t is a remark state of gangrene when no i , 1 -the ,lntc?tlne is occasionally found to be in a R wVnnosym^Ld fxisteibSeX °CCasional'y «>und to be in a mortification having taken place,” Key observes «it doesX?'T t0nUse asuspicion > it does not, however, appear, that