861 BLOODLETTING FROM THE VEINS. London, 1765. 4to. Dickson, Thomas, M.D., A Treatise on Bloodletting, &c. Bucking, Anleitung zum Aderlassen. Stendal, 1781. Wardrop, James, M.D., On Bloodletting; an account of the curative effects of the abstraction of blood, &c. London, 1825. 8vo. Hoppe, F., Die Eroffnungder Blutadern. Neisse und Leipzig, 1835. Abernethy, On the 111 Consequences sometimes succeeding to Venesection; in his Surgical Works, vol. li. p. 133. Edition of 1815. 2615. Opening a Vein (Breathing a Vein, in our old common language) may be performed in any of the superficial veins; but usually those°of the arm, of the hand, of the foot, and of the neck are preferred. 2616. At the bend of the elbow may be chosen the cephalic, basilic, median-basilic, median-cephalic, and the upper part of the radial and ulnar veins. In regard to the choice of one or other of these veins, it must be re- marked, that the cephalic vein is safest, as far as possible injury of neigh- bouring parts is concerned, but it is frequently of insufficient size to afford the quantity of blood required ; the median, median-basilic, have indeed . generally a large diameter and project more distinctly, but they lie in the neighbourhood of the brachial artery, sometimes immediately upon it and !"y seParated by the tandon of the m- and the aponeurosis of the arm. It is therefore always, but especially for beginners, best to choose the cephalic or median-cephalic, or the median and basilic near the inner condyle of the upper-armbone, and to avoid the part where the artery is wK S b,T>,h Tein' 1,1 Persons the veins^lSJh swollen, cannot be seen, but only felt. ° 26IT. In bloodletting from the arm the patient may either sit or lie be-t W ien’ the patient not being veiT weak or confined to muchblood blfn1S T t0 beTfeared’,°r fainting may be produced without much blood being drawn. Lying-down is best when the patient is weak an f faintmg, even when much blood is taken, is desirable to be avoided ( St;e fheS °Ut hlS arm moderatelL and the operator with his ■ orefinger carefully ascertains the situation of the brachial artery and of :, t:ein> at the bend 0f the A bandage about a yard a7d a half ■ ° a'r lncbes wWe, usually of red cloth, is now applied around the f ™’ 1 feW fi.nf breadth above the bend, its middle placed on the front ' ends carried behind the arm, where passing over each other Lv’ '•PS, and with its no intent :1 and puts by then> between his ;:t again with Hi l L f* cted to the opposite side, so that he may take »lS he has to bleed in the ri<dit o^leftTr 01 r-®ht ha“d’ according ■oint, so that hp pur ct i . ' arm op patient, upon the elboiv- ■1‘kZn^onV a dZI iY? I m 1,8 h“ °P*"> -tl. Iris thumb, ipied hunri 1„.’*..I ; tbf blood str°ked down a few times with the unoc- Mupied hunrl * i -u , KUI oown a lew times with t! 1 'av tint ’ 1 taker the ancet with the thumb and forefinger in such J at °"ly 30 mucl‘ of P°i"t should project as is safficfen, ?„r “he