667 TREATMENT. I as they are produced in great numbers in certain persons, and especially on different parts, without any local influence being discovered ; and they recur after having been removed by local remedies. The blood may be in such state that where it touches the skin it may produce warts. 2193. In treating warts it must first be considered whether they depend an any decided internal cause or not, in order to employ the proper A apposite remedies. Besides attention to diet, mercurial remedies, soap, ^ iuid extracts, and resins, are recommended. In using these means, the ■ varts often of themselves, or by the application of external remedies at the I ame time, waste away. Frequently also, at the period of puberty, they irop oft’ without any assistance. 2194. The external remedies advised for treating warts are very inmerous; but they are all alike, in that they may be destroyed by rustic, or removed by tying, or the knife. To the caustics belong the uice of euphorbium, hemlock, sedum acre, strong acetic acid, tincture of •antharides, caustic ammonia, sulphuric acid, hydrochloric acid, butyr of .ntiniony, lunar caustic, and the like, with which the wart is well to be avouched ; and this must be repeated as often as the crust falls off till the i >art is completely destroyed. These remedies are especially applicable, sif the wart have a broad base. If it have a neck, it may be tied with a .hdiread, which must be tightened daily ; or it may be cut off with a knife. ;;:f the wart be thick, ic is best to remove part with the knife, and destroy ©'.he remainder with caustic. It must not be forgotten, however, that in i ms treating warts, unhealthy sores are often produced, and that the *;t;:ars, after using caustic, are more disfiguring than the previous warts. itVarts which are very hard, irregular on their surface, and very painful, ■lisallow the above modes of treatment; and if anything be done, their |^omplete removal, without leaving any of the degeneration, together filth the proper remedies for any general disease connected with them toilUSt. hp Prrmlnwirl , w w uc i cun . scle on which they are seat r ncRens their growth.—J. F. S.]