105 OF THE WOMB. endeavours, the diaphragm and abdominal muscles both being called into strong action, propel the uterus even lower; and in this manner the pressure before existing is in- . creased.” (p. 530.) (4) The irritation of the rectum is in either of the two stages'now under considera- tion merely attributable to the pressure of the womb, and not to any dragging. 1270. In Complete Prolapse, or Falling out of the Womb, (Prolapsus Uteri co/npletus,) the organ projects entirely out of the external parts of generation; the vagina is thereby drawn after it and doubled ; the organs connected with the womb are entirely dragged out of their place; the intestines sink into the sac produced by the inversion of the vagina, and therefore a void is always noticed in the lower part of the belly (1). All the symptoms mentioned in in complete prolapse here exist in a greater degree ; voidance of the urine is specially attended with considerable difficulty, and often entirely prevented (2) ; qualmishness, sickness, spasm in the belly, sometimes fainting, severe febrile symptoms often occur, especially when the prolapse has taken place suddenly. The swelling formed by prolapsed womb has an oblong, nearly cylin- drical form (3), terminates below in a narrower part, on which is found a transverse opening, (the mouth of the womb,) from whence during menstruation blood flows, and into which a probe may be introduced not more deeply than two inches (4). The base of the swelling is attached to the inner skin of the labia, by which the introduction of the fin°-ers, near the swelling, is prevented. The tumour has at first a reddish colour’ and is sensible; but by contact with the air, friction, and the moisture of the urine, and so on, it becomes inflamed ; a copious secretion of mucus takes place on its surface, and it becomes gradually insensible and overspread with a thick skin, like other parts (5). The inflammation may be severe, and run on to ulceration, and even to mortification (a). (1) In reference to the size of the prolapsed womb and vagina and the contents of the sac formed by the latter, Blundell observes“ I have seen several cases in which the vagina has been forming a large tumour lying forth between the limbs: this cyst containing not merely the womb, but in part the bladder, the small intestines, the ovaries and perhaps the rectum ; for where you have procidentia, it very rarely happens that the ma« °«n y descends, generally the other viscera come with it, in a larger or smaller /A i*** ,°f thlS klnd’ ,lf y°u are incompetent, you may mistake for polupus in- -ersio uteri, not to mention a large descent of the bladder only; but when you examine ™TZTiCie;irUWiU f,'CqUently discover’ first> that0» the surface of the t,™, ’ the T[fa of. the vagina are more or less conspicuous; secondly, that vou cm m nSin "Cfi etCr ‘“t0,the tU”’ Provided the bladder be come down - thirdly that astK-fn/ii finge^lat° the rectum, it may perhaps descend into the back of the cyst- imes f T- ’that at t le lower Part of the cyst- the os uteri may be found Sorne- mts the os uteri is so conspicuous that you can see it at the first o-l-mce • w n 6 th‘ &™°f'SM&S5 towek'JwIEa fy-S !le Jlas.scen one case of prolapse in the living subject in which the Zobsete^foat i lnt° thG mverted rjina’ but has never met with it liter death He ml hi n 68J . ln consequence of the peritoneal doubling or pouch between the nnn!„ , nav be mer C1,nplnucl1 shullowu'' than that between the laginaTl reTtum the ZoZ "teMincs whiKfuklZ the fr°nt .P°ucl! is 100 generally to Loire ircumstances the proHn e Z i may a large quantity> :l»d that under such ■ above cited,