410 RETENTION OF haltung, Germ. ; Retention d’ Urine, Fr.) designates those diseased conditions in which the urine is retained by any obstacle in the canals destined for its discharge. This obstruction may be in the kidneys, in the bladder, or in the urethra, and hence is named either Ischuria remlix ureterica, vesicalis, urethralis. The discharge of the urine is thereby either completely stopped, or it may be voided with difficulty (Dgsuria) or only i by drops (Stranguria.) Retention of urine from growing together of the lips of the urethra has been already ■.! treated of (par. 1702.) That state of disease in which, on account of local disturbance in the kidneys or by ? \ general disease, no urine is secreted, (Anuria, Suppressio Urince,) must be distinguish** from retention of urine (a). | 4 i 1777. Retention of urine in the urinary passages and in the kidneys ? ) may be produced by foreign bodies which fill their cavities, as stones, l hydatids, lumps of blood, pus, thick mucus, worms, or by inflammation, t chronic swelling, and spasm of these passages, or by swellings which com-. press the bladder. The obstruction which prevents the passage of flu urine through the ureters is rarely on both sides, therefore complete reten-' > tion of urine is rare; the flow of urine may be completely or incompletely prevented. 1778. All the symptoms which manifest retention of urine in tin ureters are doubtful. The patient feels more or less violent urging. :>i stabbing pain, extending from the region of the kidney downwards, an? : i increased on motion. Although there may be a smaller discharge o !j* urine, yet are the signs deficient which show a collection of urine in flu (| bladder. But if the patient have previously voided some little stones wit! i the urine, if with previous pain in the kidneys a stabbing pain seem ti: strike downwards, and there be a sense of weight and tension at one par- : ticular spot, it may be presumed, with probability, that the ureter it. ‘ stopped by a stone. The distension of the ureter above the obstructioi t becomes gradually greater, though externally no swelling be observed r which, however, is contradicted by Allan’s (h) case(l). At last the urine collects in such quantity that the ureter increases tail double and triple its size. If the stoppage be only at one part, thdl ailment may continue longer without particular inconvenience; undeMj which circumstances, by the vicarious activity of the other kidney, tm • ordinary quantity of urine is passed. The dangers which may be specially,* produced by Ischuria ureterica, are complete suppression of the urinary ■ i secretion, by which the following general symptoms may be caused: in- flammation, suppression, and bursting of the ureters and kidneys;11' which case extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue and fistula; follow, or if the urine be poured into the cavity of the belly, inflammation. (1) The patient suffered early from gravel, and treatment was employed proper I symptoms of stoppage of the ureter by stone, which passed off in four days, A sWe,-p ' then arose on the left hip, which daily increased, whilst the quantity of urine diminished. Three weeks from the commencement of the disease the skin and m were cut through above the crest of the hip-bone, and the transversal fascia p> o « with a trocar, which was thrust into the cavity beueath, from which seven P1 p j urine escaped. The symptoms diminished; no tube was left in; the sj nip ' o J irritation returned, and after a week, a tube having been again introduced, six P . * urine and two of pus were evacuated. The disease subsided, and recurred trom (a) Abebchombie, J.; in bdinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xvii. p. 210. 1S-1-