382 FOREIGN BODIES inflammation may also be so violent, that it may run on to gangrenil though this in general only occurs when forcible efforts are made for t i removal of the foreign body. 1729. It is often very difficult to decide upon the presence of a foreig-»| body in the cesophagns. When a body more or less bulky, or with i j irregular surface, is swallowed, if the patient feel pain at a particul > spot” if swallowing be difficult and painful, and the respiration intflt i fered with, yet these symptoms may be merely the consequence of t .1 descent of the foreign body, of wound of the wall of the (esophagus at. • particular spot, and of the inflammation resulting therefrom. If a bull j body remain sticking in the upper part of the oesophagus, it may often Aj felt externally ; or, if the tongue be strongly depressed, its presence m; be ascertained either by seeing it, by feeling it with the finger, or with ! whalebone or elastic sound, or with Dupuytken’s (a) oesophageal sound of elastic silver, with a little spherical ball at its extremity. These exam:: nations must be always made with exceeding carefulness, and especial ; i may be only made when active inflammation has not yet set in. ■ fit not unfrequently happens that, after a person has had a fish-bone stick in 1 cesophaqus, though he can take food, yet a soreness remains, which is generally suppos. to arise merely from the scratching of the lining membrane, and will subside in a ft days it being presumed that, as he swallows solid food, there cannot be any thing lodginj and this more especially if an oesophageal bougie have been passed into the stomac That this opinion may be too hastily formed, is proved by the following example, friend of mine, whilst eating fish, suddenly felt that he had swallowed a fish-bone, ai became so uncomfortable that he was obliged to leave the table, and within a couple . hours went to his medical attendant, who pulled out a piece of fish-bone with forcef On the following day he still continued very uneasy, his throat being very sore, ai felt assured that he had still a piece of bone in his throat; his medical friend, howevt vcinmlW Pnnsidered the sensation depended merely on the scratch of the bone I and considerably expanded by it. A halfpenny stuck six months, and was afterwards extracted by Moni (p. 18.) He also mentions an instance in which an e oriffin of the gullet, became lodged in a sac of some XlliUlCOU? - v length, which descended belun m