530 GRAVEL; in the state of an impalpable powder. In all cases the urine is extremely prone t ; r decomposition, becomes alkaline by the evolution of ammonia, and emits a mot disgusting smell. _ “ With respect to the causes of this complaint, they may be either general or local; fb the most part, however, they seem to partake of both characters. A large proportion < those cases which have come under my own observation, has been distinctly traced t some injury of the hack. This injury has been of a character not very capable of bein I understood or described ; but perhaps some idea of it may be acquired by my statiiq .1 that for the most part it has arisen from a fall from a horse, in which the person La i received a violent general concussion of the spine, and often at the same time some Iocs-, jj injury about the back, but not of such a nature as to confine him long, or to lead him 1 ;j think that he has received any material injury; and generally it has been quite forgoUe 3 till the patient’s attention has been called to the subject. Among the general exeitin 9 causes may be also mentioned severe and protracted debilitating passions, excessiv 1 fatigue, &c. The local causes are generally some irritation about the bladder, or trr.J thru, especially when operating constantly for a considerable length of time ; as, fo example, any foreign substance introduced into the bladder, and producing irritation t 1 that organ, including all sorts of calculi under certain circumstances; the retaining of bougie or catheter in the urethra ; strictures of the urethra in some rare cases, and i: 1 particular constitutions; all which, and many other similar causes, are capable 0 producing, in a greater or less degree, a condition of the urine more or less lesemblin that above described, and readily depositing the phosphates. Thus it has been Ion; known that any foreign substance introduced into the bladder almost invariably become < incrusted with the phosphates, and not the lithic (uric) acid. With respect to th 1 proximate cause of this form of disease, we may suppose it to consist in a diminished oip suspended action of the usual acidifying powers of the kidneys, and the formation, instea* of lithic (uric) acid, of a greater quantity of alkaline matter than natural, as ura (equivalent to ammonia,) and particularly of magnesia and lime; but this being lira: more than a simple expression of obvious facts, of course throws no light upon the unif mediate cause of these depraved actions.” (p. 177-82.) • “ Oxalate of lime very rarely, if ever, appears alone under the form of an amorpbou sediment. In some instances, it occurs with the lithic (uric) amorphous sediments; oil.; even this is not very common.” (p. 153.) _ . ... , Cystic oxide. Pkout had the opportunity of examining the urine of a man ot mini* years old, who had passed a stone of pure cystic oxide. He found it had “ a yellowisr green colour, and strong peculiar smell. It very faintly reddened litmus paper, and it specific gravity was 1,022. There was a slight deposition on standing for some tuMj consisting of a mixture of the cystic oxide with a little ot the triple phosphate. con. siderable proportion of the cystic oxide was precipitated from the urine on the adamoi of acetic acid, which of course held at the same time the phosphates in solunou. ^The 'treatment of these several kinds of sediments will be considered in speaking 0. the treatment of the various kinds of gravel.] I.—OF GRAVEL. (Sahulum, Arena, Lat.; Grics, Germ.; Gravelle, ou Gravier, Fr.) 2009. The term gravel is applied to sand, or small crystallized stones, of different colour, form, and number, which are voided with the n™iej It consists usually of uric acid, or urate of ammonia, when it is redflis* or of oxalate of lime, when it has a dark blackish green ; or of phospM 1 of ammonia and magnesia, where it is whitish; or of cystic oxide, w en it has a bright yellow colour. Crystalline deposits, of different kinds, are never met with, at the same ” the same urine, although, not unfrequently, accompanied with formless ana aus SC<Maoendie (6) notices a peculiar kind of gravel, in which the sediment urine consists sometimes of a small quantity of white powder, with a great nu ^ small hairs, the length of which varies from two lines to an u!c1.'a’'„"'L crashed times it is whitish, irregular, and of so little consistence, that it may (n) Pkout, above cited, p. 85. (6) Revue Medicate, lS2(i. vol. iv. p. HO. £