607 AFTER-TREATMENT. reserve the most perfect rest of body and mind ; for drink he should take little almond milk, and for food only a little broth, for the first few days, he sponge on the wound should be frequently changed, and the neigh- __ mrim1' parts kept clean. In general the urine begins to flow partially |.- the°urethra the first day after the operation ; when the urine is mostly fended by the urethra, the wound should be covered with wadding, which to be fixed with a tightly drawn T bandage, and towards the end of the Starling the wound must be touched with caustic to promote its healing, he cure of the wound is often complete in three or four weeks; sorae- unes it occupies a month ; but in rare cases the wound closes by quick i lion in from nine to fourteen days (a). I have twice seen the wound >aled by agglutination on the fourth day (b). The continued application of cold by means of a large sponge dipped in very cold ,ater, is obviously the most efficient remedy to prevent bleeding and severe traumatic 0 action. 1 [The dextrous performance of the operation for the stone is not all that is necessary r the well-doing of the patient, and instances have occurred within the remembrance ' many, in which, though ably and quickly performed, and with as little suffering to e patient as possible, and every hope of a favourable result when they were removed om the operating-room, yet have they.terminated fatally. In hospital practice, I have doubt this has arisen from stone-patients having been, in most instances, placed in a ard with other patients, where sufficient quietude could not be preserved, and where e sister having only occasionally a single case, had no chance of obtaining sufficient •:perience in the conduct of a case, which mainly depends on her constant attendance id ability, almost as much, indeed, as upon the good performance of the operation, i consequence of so much being intrusted, of necessity, to the sister, and so little which ight attract attention being done, few students, on leaving the hospital, know more of x»stone-case than the performance of the operation and its result, unless any thing very iji' markable should occur during the course of the cure; and therefore, when settled in isjp/aetice. and called upon to operate for the stone, although they may perform the ‘liberation extremely well, yet they are at a loss to know in what way the after-treatment, e> oder common circumstances, should be conducted ; and are therefore unable to give directions, or to exert such control over the nurse as may assist to bring about a favour- able termination of the case. I am not aware that either in any Lectures on Surgery, '<■' other published works, that these seemingly trifling, though, in reality, very im- ; Jortant points in the after-treatment of stone-operations have been noticed, the attention *»ly haying been drawn to after-bleeding, peritonseal inflammation, and some other iiaore striking circumstances of such cases. B To fill up this serious gap in the after-treatment, I shall now relate the practice **ihich certainly for the last forty-six years, and I have little doubt for a much longer f 'riod, has been adopted at St. Thomas’s Hospital. jit When a patient is ascertained to have the stone, he is placed in a small ward, con- 'L‘ning only half-a-dozen beds, and which, during the first part of the after-treatment, ■ kept private and extremely quiet. Here he remains under the watchful eye of the tl iter, an experienced woman, to whom all the stone-cases are assigned, and who is ca- !< ‘hie of giving the Surgeon a full and sufficient account of the patient’s symptoms and tt fffenngs during his absence, and to note any little peculiarity about him, which a nurse ^accustomed to such cases would overlook. Great care is taken in first instructing r • ese women, who usually remain long in this ward; indeed, in thirty-six years the sister ‘Is been replaced only thrice since the death of the sister who had the ward when I r'8t entefed the profession, and who spent twenty years there: a sufficient proof of * * experience which such persons must acquire. 1 \ P?tient usual|y remains for ten days or a fortnight, to accustom him to the place ' s US aNcndants; and it is rarely requisite to pay more than ordinary attention to ■ iet and habits, if he be in good health, excepting his immediate complaint. If bis i;.| enngs be severe, an occasional hip-bath is used, which has a very soothing effect; hn e*trem?Jy .serviceable if the preparatory soundings increase, as they will , ally, his sufferings. I have rarely known it necessary to employ blood- Bt tnn°V0 c'tei'> P* 34,—Graefk in (6) Cmeuds, Ucber den Steinschnitt; in Ilei- p. 100. delb. klin. Annalen, vol. vi. part iv.