564 STONE IN THE BLADDER; further crushing effected by the hand or by the machinery. In this wa • is the operation to be continued till the male instrument has entered con* pletely, and the instrument is perfectly closed, by which the actual crusts a intr, or the escape of the stone is shown. In the latter, as in the formal case, the stone, or its pieces, must be again caught, and they must 1 crushed as already described, and the process repeated till the stone { completely broken to pieces, unless great urging to pass the urine, diseaseJ • contraction of the bladder, and discharge of the urine, violent pain, tl | patient’s distress and the like, prevent the completion of the operatic; i| After the fragments still clinging to the instrument have been got rid o I by pushing forwards, and pulling back its male branch, and by other gent : motions, and the instrument completely closed, it must be withdrawn hu a gentle rotatory motion. If there be yet any obstruction from a litt. piece of stone between the branches of the instrument, it must be agai * pushed into the bladder, and attempts, as already mentioned, made togu 4 rid of it, so that the instrument may be withdrawn completely closed. 2048. The duration of a lithotriptic sitting, depends on the sensibilil 1 of the patient and the symptoms it produces. In general, it occupies fh or six minutes, but persons who are not very sensitive, can, withoi inconvenience, bear it much longer. 1 he symptom usually arising aftri the introduction of the instrument, is, violent urging to make wate which, however, often ceases, when the instrument is managed gently, t. . a few drops of urine have escaped. If a large quantity of urine 1 > voided, and in consequence of other circumstances, the operation be sti-. continued, it must be proceeded with only with the greatest caution aral tenderness, on account of the great danger of injuring the walls of tl'j bladder. . . 2049. After the operation, the treatment must be directed to tr i prevention and removal of the irritative and inflammatory symptoms, an the passage of the fragments of stone through the urethra. The patier must be kept quiet in bed, or the generative organs supported m a sus pendor, and he should take only thin broth and mild mucilaginous dnnH till no trace of irritation remain. But when this has completely eeasec ; he may gradually return to more and solid food, sit up, and go about tc I any length of time, but always having the generative organs supporter I If febrile symptoms, inflammatory irritation and swelling of the nnicou t membrane of the bladder and urethra, of the prostate and generatwj organs, and of the inguinal glands occur, antiphlogistic treatment, suitin>| the degree and character of these symptoms, and the constitution ot I patient, by general or local blood-letting, lukewarm baths, was les anij internal treatment must be resorted to. If with these symptoms, general coldness of the body, and weak, often very small pulse shown prostrati of the powers, then dry rubbing, aromatic applications, the internal use 1 aromatic infusions, and even of volatile irritants, with due caution, nn -1 be employed. Inflammatory affections of other organs, which, altno g*| depending on the constitution of the patient, may be excited by the ope I tion, require the closest attention and corresponding treatment. , 1 2050. The escape of sand and small portions of stone produced y a crushing, generally follows the first voidance of the urine, and is repea each time it is afterwards passed ; accompanied with more°r sensation in the urethra, but without further irritation. Small fra even up to four lines, if they be round, do not in general cause any lmr