536 CYSTIC OXIDE GRAVEL, genous matter, which in peas is similar to cheese. Fruits usually contain large quantitu q of starch and sugar ; on this account, apples and pears are most objectionable. * * * Among non-nitrogenous substances fat must be included. If the formula for this i h taken, as C 11, H 10, O, then 31 equivalents of oxygen are required, in order to convei ij this into carbonic acid and water; and by taking this substance as food, so mac r‘ oxygen is prevented from acting on the uric acid. Butter is only the fatty particles <■ i milk, separated from the albuminous and watery parts; this must on no account 1 taken in excess. Gelatine may be used as a partial substitute for meat;, but as tl 4 albuminous tissues cannot be formed from it, it cannot be entirely substituted for without the strength failing. “ For drink the oxygenated water has been mentioned as best; then water which hi i been distilled, and therefore contains no substances whatever in solution, and on th: i account it is, generally speaking, the best solvent; that is, it can hold more in solutioi • and remove more from the body than another water which, when drunk, already cor; tains substances dissolved in it. But this cannot be procured everywhere, and, there fore, it is desirable to point out how the best drinking water can be obtained.” Filtering or boiling water, or getting rid of the free carbonic acid gas by adding a little mor i lime, according to Reid’s plan, are inefficient, and neither of the latter “ causes an * other salts of lime which may be dissolved in the water to be precipitated. To effei. this, a few grains of carbonate of potash or soda should be added to the water befor boiling, and the boiling should be continued for some minutes. By this means thes 1 salts of lime will be decomposed, and sulphate of potash and'soda, or chloride of potassiui i and sodium, in very small quantities, will exist in the water after it has been filterec or the chalky sediment has been allowed to settle to the bottom. Good fountain wate, or soda water are far better than beer and wine, which are objectionable for the spirit an i sugar which they contain. The spirit is a substance which may be represented by C - H 6, 0, and the sugar by C 12, H 14, O 14, the first requiring 12 equivalents of oxygen | and the last 24, to convert them into carbonic acid and water. The excess of sugar an - acid in home-made wines renders them more injurious than foreign wines or spirits, c which gin and whisky most certainly also retard oxygenation, yet, by producing a excess of water in the urine, they cause that deposit which arises from the want t1 action of the oxygen to be dissolved, and thus the evil which they and other substance occasion is for a time concealed, (p. 37-41.) “ We can also diminish these non-nitrogenous bodies in the blood by aperients, whicl act on the liver. These will be found more particularly useful when the deposit i dark-coloured ; indeed, the deeper the colour the less action there is of the liver. * * Of such medicines calomel, aloes, colchicum, and colocynthare beneficial, both in larg l and purgative doses, and also when given in such a way as to increase the secretion c the liver. Hence the efficacy of blue pill as an alterative. * * * The use of thes medicines as purgatives must be judged of by their effects and the strength of tb. patient. * * * Sudorifics are occasionally given with great advantage. * * * »•" regard to baths generally their action may be considered to be on the nerves and oi the blood, and on each the action is of two kinds ; thus on the nerves there may be . stimulant or sedative action, and on the blood they are capable of removing substance; from it, and of enabling them to be absorbed into it. These modes of action depen; on the state of the system, the temperature, and the substances which are dissolve!' in the bath. (pp. 41, 2.) . . .J “ The next point in the treatment that must be attended to is to keep all the uric aca in the ultimate textures in solution. This may perhaps be effected by water and alsa- lies. When these or their carbonates are given, they should be taken at least an bout before food in order that they may not interfere with digestion: but though tne^- medicines may relieve the complaint, they never can cure it. * * * I believethese mfj1' cines are the least necessary part of the treatment I have laid down, and it would w well for all to try what may be effected by diet and exercise, before they resort tf alkalies, which may in some cases, perhaps, be the cause of an increase in the of uric acid. This appears to be the opinion of Pelouze, in his last report.” (p- 45-/J 2013. Gravel which is formed of cystic oxide requires the same treat-’ merit as uric acid, especially in reference to dietetics (1). In <>xa*a e of lime gravel all vegetable food should be withheld, according to Maoendie, but according to Phout the treatment must, agree with tlia for uric acid gravel. After what has been already said {par. 1993; o the origin of gravel from oxalate of lime, both modes of treatment may