OVARIAN DISEASE, 488 Smith (a), Lizars (b), Ciirysmar (c), and Quittenbaum (fl), hat t successfully performed it. The practicability of this operation depern (j on the usually thin stemmed attachment of the dropsical and otherwi) 4 degenerated ovary, which is merely formed by the broad ligament, ar tj has usually no considerable adhesions. The wall of the belly must 1 ;i cut into on one side or the other of the white line, according to the set--4 of the swelling, and to a corresponding length, in which the protrusion < « the intestines must, as in the Caesarean operation, (par. 1844,) 1 prevented. The swelling is now carefully separated from whatevi-j attachment it has to the omentum, the peritonccum, and so on, wit- t the fingers or with the knife, and drawn out through the wound ; the no>: 9 apparent thin stem is pierced near the womb with a needle, and tied t 9 means of a double thread, to prevent the ligature slipping off. TH I stem is then cut through before the ligature, which is brought out at tl bottom of the wound, which is to be united after the rules above give i for the Caesarean operation. (1) Here also must be noticed Recamier’s (e) mode of treatment; the swellit t is emptied with a flat trocar, the canula thrust into the blind end of the peritonceum ti it is felt in the vagina, into which it is thrust, and an elastic tube introduced. Tl result was fatal. [(2) Brown (f) advises a combined constitutional treatment, with tapping and vei tight bandaging. He sums up the principal points in the successful treatment of tl four cases he has given in the following words:—“ I shall divide the treatment ini i constitutional, local, and treatment after tapping. First, constitutional; mercnria . administered internally, as alteratives, and externally by friction oyer the abdomen, an. continued till the gums are slightly yet decidedly affected, and this affection must 1 continued for some weeks. I lay particular stress upon this point. At the same tint diuretics must be given, and after the first week tonics should be combined with thenij The food should consist of light animal diet, and should be unstimulating, and thj patient should take daily exercise in the air. Second, local treatment; the careful an constant application of tight flannel bandaging, so as to procure considerable pressur over the tumour. When it is proved that the abnormal action has been checked pJ ^ positive decrease of the tumour, and a continuation of such decrease, or by a positive noi increase for some weeks, then the cyst should be tapped, and its fluid evacuated. Thin^ after-treatment; accurate padding (napkins folded in a square form and placed one ore the other, so as to form a firm pad) and tight bandaging over the cyst aud bell} gewe* rally, for two or three weeks after tapping, and the medicine and friction continued lc 9 at least six weeks. I would particularly wish to enforce the importance^ of the anew treatment, as on that depends very much the success or failure of the case. (p. IS O B Bonfils (g) aud Camus (/<) recommend, that after puncturing the cyst and witi drawing the water, the canula should be briskly moved in different directions, to b j and even tear the wound in the walls of the cyst, to prevent the adhesion of its eogBH and allow the continual escape of the fluid into the cavity of the pentonaum, w it will be absorbed. Berard, however, thinks that the movements of the instrument rather excite adhesive inflammation and obliteration of the sac. _ I (3) With regard to the advantage derived from tappingan ovarian dropsy, South am y * observes, from the analysis of twenty cases which he recites, “that ;i(/rnrrn/«SMJ which is generally considered the most effectual palliative, not only afi'ords a vc ; temporary relief, but is by no means unattended with danger. Thus fourteen dig within nine months after the first operation, four of whom survived it only a few | Of the remaining six, two died in eighteen months, and four lived for periods vairwij from four to nearly nine years. It further appears that paracentesis does not pro . I (a') Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xviii. p. 532. 1822. (6) Observations on the Extraction of Diseased Ovaria, p. 9. Edinburgh, 1825, fob (n) In Hopff.k, Ueber Exstirpation krankhafter Eierstcicke ; in Graefe und W.vlther's Journal, vol. xii. P* 60. ((i) Quittenbaum, C. F., Solcmnia Ohbisti nate precelebranda indicit. InestCommentatio de Ovarii hvpertrophia ot Ilistoria Extirpations hypertrophici et hydropici prosperocum sucres, facial. Rostochii, 1 35. fto. (c) Revue Mrdicale, vol. i. p. 19. v*j .„re\ (/) Cases of Ovarian Dropsy, &c.; in nan 1843-4-1, vol. i. (pi Gazette Mcdieale, vol. xi. (ft) Ibid., vol. xili. r „ -to 184S (t) London Med. Gaz., vol. xxxn. p.