310 TREATMENT OF •is, 183d. 8vo. (d) Above cited, pi. i. f- b duced once daily, and withdrawn immediately. The scar is then wf-> a consolidated, and is four lines in width, as in the rest of the uretln canal. Ducamp (a). ™ r 2 Dubouchet (6) thinks that the bellied bougies, will do as well as the dilators ; ai indeed, experience proves it to be so. 1698. Ducamp cautions against the application of caustic when t urethra is inflamed ; that in long strictures it is best to destroy them 1 by bit, by applying it only for two or three lines, as a longer slough sep u? rates with more difficulty, and the canal may be stopped up. If the stri i ture be six inches distant from the orifice of the urethra, a curved caust,- 1 holder should be employed. As Ducamp’s instrument will admit of f twisting, and as, on account of the different dimensions of the urethi * the cauterization, even up to six inches, cannot always be performed wit out danger of making a false passage, so Lallemand, Amussat, Segala t and Tanchou have proposed modified caustic-holders, which may be i i troduced into the stricture with greater certainty. For the enlargement of very narrow strictures, Lallemand uses catgut. As the use -a l . • 1 1,o-Kunt on in rnon\T inctnnpps nrfwlllPPK frrpat na r Ul lilt ^CUILUL U1 VLl j UUI1V/U — O the exploring bougie, with however great care, in many instances produces great pa: ■ t #»F_ t- tA„ a: A ^ tho wtov mop rrof lrwACP nnrl hv Rtnnninfl' nn f . | Hie expiui lllg UUUgic, nuu iiu V,, — — J r - v * and often much bleeding, and some of the wax may get loose, and by stopping up canal cause retention of urine, Lallemand, if the impression of the stricture be not a lutely necessary, introduces a bougie smeared with wax into the stricture, which,aft some time being withdrawn, by the pressure it has suffered, shows the length and ei the situation of the obstacle. By the caustic bougie a second and third stricture may attacked before the first is perfectly removed. Ducamp says that caustic should k a lono-er be employed after a bougie No. 6 passes easily over the obstacle. Lallemasi « experience shows that in such cases it is better to cauterize again, than to persist in ' enlargement, if changing to a larger sound cause pain. Lallemand does not agree w Ducamp in destroying long’ strictures bit by bit, but advises cauterizing their wb i length at once, as he has never noticed complete retention of urine in such case, l it even in that of deeper strictures from the separation of the sloughs ; and, even shoulc:.«d occur, it might be easily relieved by the introduction of a bougie. Lallemand consul- a the subsequent widening of the urethra by dilators useless; the bellied bougies will l * easily take the necessary bend so as to be'carried over the crooked urethra, which howe' % I must from experience, contradict. Elastic curved sounds or bougies are most tive, which should be left in for fifteen or twenty minutes, and should not go beyond t ’ width of Nos. 11 and 12, as if they pass, we may be quite sure of a successful result, t Amussat employs both straight and curved caustic-holders (c). Segalas’ caustic-holder is distinguished by its introduction, covered, into the stnctu It consists of a graduated gum elastic catheter, in which a canula serves the purpose-r sheathing the stilette of the caustic-holder, which, with its olive-shaped button, fits cl< to the mouth of the canula. The instrument is passed down to the stricture, then t d canula carried down it, and, being withdrawn, leaves the caustic-holder uncovered *5 tliG stricture. . . Tanchou’s caustic-holder, by means of a projecting stilette, is more certainlyinti duced into the stricture, and the formation of a false passage thereby prevented, consists of a graduated elastic catheter, with a niche for the reception of the caust which is placed on a metal shaft, having its extremity spiral, so that it may be me flexible and more readily applicable to the curves of the urethra, and of a silver or g< stilette, which is conveyed through the sheath of the instrument, and also guides it passing forwards into the stricture (d). 1699. Opinion is still very much divided as to the preference of t treatment of stricture by bougies, and their destruction by caustic. • ii • i • >t • i iiii m i i Lieu, Line lit; on — - O 7 ~ . * . 1 : must be borne in mind, however, in making the comparison, that tne im chief usually assigned to the destruction of strictures by caustic, n occurred only by the use of armed bougies, (par. 1689,) but not since t improved method of Ducamp ; by which it is believed that there is grea (b) Nouveau p. 206. Paris (a) Above cited, pi. i. to iv.—Froriev, ChirurRisclie Kupfertaf., pi. lxxxi. eau Traite des Retentions d’Urine, fc) Above cited, pi. iii iv-