343 PHIMOSIS. Muller, De Phimosi et Paraphimosi carumque curatione. Erf., 1797. I Lodek, Medicinisch-chirurgische Beobachtungen, part i. p. 84. Weimar, 1794. r Travers, Benj., On Phimosis and Paraphimosis; in Cooper and Travers’ Surgical issays, part i. Loudon, 1818. 8vo. .. Kirnrf.rgkr, Tiieod., Historisch-kritische und pathologisch-therapeutische Abhand- n*T iiber die Phimosis und Paraphimosis. Mainz, 1834. 4to. Collie, Die Beschneidung der Israeeliten. Dresden, 1812. Terquem, Guide de Posthetomiste, avec un expose d’un nouveau precede'. Metz, B4&- Bergson, J., Die Beschneidung vom historichen, kritischen und medicinisclien Stand- iiinkte. Berlin, 1844. With a plate. I 1646. The unnatural narrowing of the prepuce, so that it cannot be eadily retracted over the glans penis, is called Phimosis; and if the :ery narrow prepuce which has been retracted cannot be again brought " arward, it is named Paraphimosis. 1647. Phimosis is either a vice of the first formation, and congenital, r it may be accidental, from inflammation of the glans and prepuce; in ,-hich latter case it is named by some complicated phimosis, in opposition •o the first form. 1648. The prepuce, in children, has generally so narrow an aperture, (hat it cannot be retracted over the glans; and peculiar symptoms may 'iccur if this aperture be very narrow or entirely closed. When, for example, the orifice of the prepuce is smaller than that of the urethra, the irine cannot flow in its usual stream, part of it collects under the prepuce, listends it, and can only be completely voided by pressure. By the urine ;hus retained, and becoming putrid, the prepuce is inflamed, often lengthens ind becomes hard ; and even stony concretions may be formed between r.he glans and the prepuce. If the prepuce have not an opening, it be- comes distended by the collecting urine to an oval transparent swelling, md the retention of urine may be fatal, if assistance be not afforded in proper time. 1649. If the congenital narrowing of the prepuce be not so great as to produce the just mentioned symptoms, it is rarely noticed before puberty. If the erections of the penis then occurring be not sufficient, by degrees, to enlarge the aperture of the prepuce, so that it can be easily retracted over the glans, which depends on the great length of the prepuce or the shortness of the frcenum connecting the prepuce and glans, or it may be on the imperfect development of the penis itself, erection and connexion will be painful; inflammation, excoriation, and so on, will be produced by dhe obstructed flow of the urine, and by the collection and putrifying of the cheeselike matter beneath the prepuce ; and also the proper ejection of thz semen will be prevented by a very small orifice of the prepuce. 1650. Accidental phimosis arises from inflammation, in which, as con- sequence of swelling of the prepuce, its aperture contracts, and, as consequence of increased determination of blood, the glans itself enlarges. Usually, those persons are attacked with accidental phimosis who have, rom birth, a very long and narrow prepuce. The special causes may be, V/nC^a^ U'C6rS’ w*ien seated on the edge of the prepuce, upon the corona g andis, or on the frcenum, internal or external gonorrhoea, warty excres- 'Cences, and excoriation of the prepuce from putrescence of the cheese-like i • a. * reta*ned beneath it, or from any other irritant. The inflammation ei er' acute or of un erysipelatous kind ; often is the prepuce swollen