MODE AND CONDITION OF CURE. 477 k ust be decided by the following circumstances. In primary extravasation b "blood, and in accumulations of pus, the opening of the chest by cutting • ;to it should be considered preferable ; as in extravasation of blood its g ijoharge by the trocar cannot indeed be effected, and in the suppurative :i cumulation, a continued discharge must be kept up, under which cir- jt, amstance the union of the pleural surfaces is not produced by adhesion /, it only by firm exudation and granulations. On the other hand, puncture ritli the trocar is more proper in acute empyema and watery accumula- tion, in very weak patients, and when the operation is undertaken rather .■ ith a view to the relief of the patient. ; ■ In accumulations of pus Schuh has proposed, after removing the trocar-canula, to ■r troduce a gum elastic tube, and fasten it securely ; Krause, however, objects to this ■ i producing greater pain. If, together with the puncture, a cut be not made, the a mud, according to Krause, should be covered with a poultice; it closes, in course a few days, but, with the continued use of the poultice, sometimes opens again, and ■y. scharges pus constantly. If this be not done, a cut should be forthwith resorted to. 1903. The mode and condition by which, after the discharge of bloody, rous, or purulent extravasation from the cavity of the chest, the cure is .Mected, and the satisfactory or unsatisfactory result of the operation .ysues, is shown by the following circumstances confirmed by pathological latomy, In every large accumulation of fluid in the cavity of the chest the ng is compressed, the pulmonary vessels no longer permit the fluid to be ; operly poured forth, which, under natural circumstances, fill it, they "e gradually obliterated, the proper structure of the lungs wastes, and hangs quite shrivelled up, as on a stalk. If under these circum- ances fluid be discharged from the cavity of the chest, the lung is never ain expanded and developed, the space which had contained the fluid ' imains empty, and nature must effect the cure in some other way than ■ the development of the lung. Hence it must be concluded that the > suit of the operation is the more uncertain, the longer the accumulation fluid in the cavity of the chest has existed. If, after the discharge of 3 fluid, air enter the cavity of the pleura, which cannot by any precau- ■n be prevented, the walls of the cavity may inflame, and if the inflam- ition become violent, it may cause death. If the patient get over this nod, a profuse suppuration takes place over the whole surface of the 'Ura\ which runs through its stages with greater or less quickness, li wording to the constitution and age of the patient. A cure can only ppen when, by this development of granulations, by the successive ex- nsion of the lung, and by the dropping together of the chest, by which curve of the ribs is diminished and their form rendered more cylin- ca , thepZe2,m unites with the surfaCe 0f the lung. On these grounds - ^Plained why, in great and long continued accumulations, &c., in the ; the chest> and in old persons no cure in general takes place, • uugh in younger persons, in whom the walls of the chest are yet yield and if the accumulation have not existed long, the cure very com- .;nly, and often very quickly follows. The same changes affect the fiere abs^!n?-Ure Punchm»g with the trocar as those which occur Hause Sr ?f hi6 ,ias take» P^ce without the operation, i^rds and L° 1 ^ °hest in which the shoulder is drawn I ;8nd on tJM rn\1S lnclin®d towards the diseased side, which may U on the high position of the fistula in the chest («)• («) See Pellktan and Laurev, above cited.