CANCER OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 781 globular projections, almost immovable, protruding little externally, though it spreads rather deeply, compresses the vessels and nerves, and declares its cancerous nature by the lancinating pain. Induration of the parotid remains after previous inflammation, {par. 141,) feels less hard and uneven than scirrhus, and shows no sign of concealed cancer. In sarcomatous degeneration, the swelling is softer than in scirrhus or induration, its growth is rather quick, it is movable, and may also be raised from below. Medullary fungus of the parotid forms a swelling which quickly attains an enormous size, and from whence, on its bursting, fungous growths arise and bleedings frequently occur. 2434. From the above-mentioned swellings of the parotid gland, encysted ■ tumours, which are developed in the parenchyma, or on the covering of the gland are distinguished by having mostly a roundish form and regular surface; their front surface is often compressed ; they are not developed equally; they feel soft, and fluctuate indistinctly. In tumours of the absorbent glands, there are always several swollen at the same time, the swellings are softer, and there is a general appearance of scrofulous disease. Iumours of the submaxillary glands are distinguished from those of the parotid by the seat of their development. 2435. In scirrhus, as well as in medullary fungus of the parotid removal is the only remedy, though a doubtful one. Various means have been advised for the dispersion of induration, as hemlock, antimony mercury, barytes, and iodine; for external application, mercurial, or iodic oin ments, poultices, dry bags of hemlock, hyoscyamus, belladonna, stra- monipm, softening steam of these herbs, dispersing plasters. In sarcoma- ous swellings of the parotid, perhaps some decrease may be effected bv repeated applications of leeches, by issues on the tumour, or in its neigh- bourhood, and by a seton drawn through the tumour. These means lessen he increased nourishment of the swelling, by the inflammation excited by the seton producing obliteration of the vessels, and the swelling is de- UT )y t ie s.uPPuratlon- Such modes of treatment, however, can only be employed with the hope of a favourable issue in cases of not Ion- tending degeneration of the parotid, and when it has little increased in I caiL a Tjf’ howe*er’ be remembered, that attempts at dispersion may ■ a quicker growth of induration. When in sarcomatous de-eneratio7 ^ nUme,'0US’ *he i"tr°d"Cti“n “f * seton ™y pr“duc7 anfrln6; The removal.of the parotid gland belongs to the most difficult i sible 'K?hr°T operatlOM.s’ and ,s by mai)y considered totally unpermis- ble, as the close connexion of the gland with the important neighbouring neC6Tu7 W0Un(Hng °f very b»P°rta!it vessels and nerves swelling of thfpai4idefnogrdra °* “ ?erV0U,S Symptoras ’ besides, the is not V ^ parotid, in ordinary cases, is productive of no dano-er nnd extijfpatin-°theUrotid wETtf? ^ repeated]y proved the possibility of The nafotid 5 ° , .Wlth<),lt t ie occurrence of these accidents. adher^E?he tSur“ ^ bbrous capsule; if this be not removal is far easier and W n * UUn° tbe operation it can be spared, the are united. The vrs'd i • ,i nSer°us tban wben the capsule and tumour the temporal nut> • 8 ." n<i1 may woundfd during the operation are, arteries or their hran 7 aura!’ transverse facial, and external maxillary or their branches, which are often considerably enlarged, and even («) Hichteh, Anfnngsgriimlc, vol. iv. par. 401, 402.