549 SYMPTOMS. general, when the stone is primarily formed in the kidney, there is more or less severe pain in the kidney, and running along the ureter. This is wanting if the stone be first formed in the bladder itself, and especially i must not be considered as a certain and constant symptom. The patients t have a sensation of warmth or painful tickling in the glans penis, and * they, therefore, especially if children, are continually pulling the penis u about and drawing it away from the body. These sensations show tlieiri- selves at the beginning of the disease, but only when the patient exerts * himself violently, or the posture of his body is suddenly changed, or im- .i mediately after passing the last drops of urine. The orifice of the urethra I. is inflamed, as in a clap. The call to make water occurs very frequently, and whilst the water flows, there is a burning pain at the tip of the glans. The stream of urine is often suddenly interrupted ; the most insufferable pain occurs with severe forcing, and the urine only again begins to flow i when the patient changes his posture, lies on his back or the like. The ri discharge of the last drop of urine is attended with the most violent pain, i as the bladder then contracts upon the stone. The call to make water is i< accompanied with frequent forcing at stool, and often to such degree that v the rectum protrudes, and frequently the haemorrhoidal vessels swell from i the irritation of the bowel. The same also occurs in women, with the mvagina, which in a long continued state of irritation and inflammation, !< becomes the seat of constant mucous discharge, and often protrudes. The ■. urine passed is generally pale, limpid, and has a peculiar offensive smell, f If the patient keep quiet, the symptoms are usually slighter; but they ■^increase on every movement, in walking, riding on horseback, or in a ui scarriage, in which latter case the patient often feels as if a foreign body | fell from one part of the bladder to another; after violent movements f some drops of blood frequently flow from the urethra. The patient com- u plains not unfrequently of a painful drawing up of the testicles, accom- pamed with numbness along the inside of the thigh, sometimes runnino- ■ ik'Vn fVen ^ie He also often feels a tormenting violent pain in * *-ne sole of the foot, sometimes a slight sensation of numbness, or a trouble- ; some tickling. As the irritation of the stone on the walls of the bladder gcontmues, they are brought into a state of slow inflammation, the urine is mingled with much thick mucus; the walls of the bladder become thick- ' Ilk’,- contract around the stone, so that with diminished capacity, and inability of distension, the bladder can no longer retain the urine within 11™ dlscharges it every minute. The inflammation may extend to the RW-eters and kidneys, and it may cause ulceration and other kinds of de- KST In c°ose(Iuence of these symptoms, and of the constant pain 1 FTnu °f r6St a"d sleeP> the digestive organs are » P°WerS SInk’ and are at last clestro^ed with feoSu-TtieSrfkympt0mS Ur!derg0 vario,,s modifications according to the Kwl i °Th Patl6nt’ th.e natUre of the stone> and the place where it I usmodenffl T" Seilf1Ve patient is> the less regular and quiet n he mot I Ving’ 1 greater h“ brings. The lar|er the stone is, I [re S r ^ the Tpt°mS- With smooth stones, or with such as - oose Of an n “i® the syniPtoms are less; but with a stone lying Rent Tf H F I shaPe’ or of the mulberry kind, they are more vio- |<he bkdL ieil °e be(seated at the orifice of the ureter or in the neck of I er, the symptoms are more severe, and in the latter case it mav