997 OF THE UPPER JAW. upwards between the bulbous process and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone across where it joins the cheek-bone ; and, lastly, at its nasal process, parallel with the interior margins of the lachrymal and nasal bones. I then with strong scissors cut the connexions of the orbitary plate with the os planum of the ethmoid bone, and orbitary process of the palate-bone, deep into the orbit, to the spheno-maxillary fissure and was, lastly, able, by notching with the bone forceps at every point where the saw' had been applied, to remove the entire bone which had its cavity filled with a firm sar- comatous tumour. The patient was able to walk about her room on the eighth day and went out t0 take an airing on the thirtieth day; and she left the Hospital on 5th March following, (p. 55.) I have, for the sake of conveuience, put these three cases together; but although t-TZARS first proposed the operation in this country, it was first performed by Gensoul, of Lyons, on 26th May, 1827, who states that he was not aware what method Ljzars had employed (a), on a lad of seventeen, for a fibrocartilaginous tumour of the upper tbe,wbole left side of tlle face, and pushing to one side the orifice of the month; it extended from above downwards, from the floor of the orbit to two lines above the chin ; from before backwards, from the nose, which was thrust to the right, to cirnt"! °Vhe f, °f *,he mfen?r maxillary bone.” (p. 17.) He did not first tie the L I Ta11 “adr a VCrtICal cut from the imier corner of the eye vertically ct nrS the upper lip, opposite the left cuspid tooth. From the middle of this cut, or rather nearly on a level with the floor of the nose, he made a second up to four lDZr°mt -l6 Ti °f t,he !?be °f the ear’ and a third cut beginning five or six ifnel un ?o the fndeR°fH hep°r,blc d°Yn t0 the end °f the second, then turned the flap nhV the forehead. But for the purpose of completely exposing the tumour, he was innef ed !e C°Dt'nuc’ from the junction of the second and third cuts, another along the owerflafh°ft he Ta’nasset%1 to ,wlthin an inch of the base of the lower jaw; ancfthis thin ? P h t“rDer ?°Wn; ■ He then commenced with a chisel and mallet cutting through the inh margm,?f the orbit near the suture connecting the malar and frontal bones into e spheno-maxillary fissure; and next cut through the zygomatic process of the malar bone. The maxillary bone being thus freed externally, he placed^ very broad dfisel £ °f,t,he T’ and carriedit through the lachryma7bone and the nasalTvPne r e ethmo,d >' and ln the same way detached the corresponding part of the no^ tn tv, C tmg away Wlth,a bistoury all the soft parts connecting the wing of the Upp,er jaT’h6 Preceded to separate the two superior maxillary bones, which i ^-ly a?d quickly having drawn the first left incisive tooth, by introducing t uot d'rectly from before backwards, but by wriggling it through the moutlf df^tro4t0 detaCh ^ maXlUa,ry bone from the Pterygoid processes of the sphenoid and to £ y anyt connexions with the back of the ethmoid still remaining, he tW the rtrtaxHlarv nZ™’ Ftl* h oWi**,y in the orbit> «> «s to cut tL^h tEupe- to foTm n llLr Wb,,ch bc was1a,nxlous not to drag, and to push it sufficiently deep a lever, so as that he could turn the tumour down into the mouth ' Thil answered very well, and he had then only to divide with curved scissors and liietn the attachments of the bone to the soft palate, so as to leave the latter unharmed The 2849. Cutting away the diseased jaw is now effected by means of Rev’s thif"Lo'or’,in difrl ",ays’. accordi'>"» 3 ^ the alveolar nrnL P7 0n/^ tl,e UpPer Jaw’ with its broad base towards ther are t 1 > * T* ^V,e 10 reiy>oved, two /\ shaped cuts united toge- “ eHini l,e de I 6 saw.’ i"oludin« •« ‘he diseased part. If the necteri at the iim,er n vertIcal c,,‘ must be made on each side, eon- Sfaed LTec P ‘the'a^ronird 0111 7!!' U”ll"410r ‘h* div1diewtlf ZlhSeTaad hrem0Ved’ the «"» -11 "f ‘he orbi? ,m«t’ be bonp wifi fi , C ,a.n hammer, near the suture connecting the clieek- bone with the outer orbitar process of the frontal bone, so that the chfsel («) Above cited.