82 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED UMBILICAL RUPTURE.' the compressor must at once be removed. The compressors are made of wood and metal (a). [“ The presence of the intestine and omentum in the tumour keeping the navel open, oppose,” says Desault, “ its continual tendency to close; a tendency, however, which sometimes Incoming greater than the resistance of the escaped parts, compels their return into the belly, obliterates the aperture which has given them passage, closes, consoli- dates it, and hence spontaneous cures of infantile umbilical ruptures occur.” (p. 317.) He gives two instances of this fact. The one, a female child of two years of age, with a rupture the size of a large nut, which had occurred soon after birth, and for which nothing had been done. He proposed applying a ligature, but the parents would not permit it. In the following year he saw the child again, and the rupture had disappeared. Nothing had been done, but the tumour had gradually subsided. In the other case the rupture had existed from birth, and at five years of age it was determined on applying the ligature. It was however deferred, in consequence of an attack of small-pox. After the child’s recovery the swelling was found much diminished, and Desault, presuming it might be cured by nature, left it alone. He was right; at the end of eight months it had entirely disappeared. Soemmering (b) and Brunninghausen (c) have mentioned several similar instances.] 1234. If the operation be necessary in strangulated umbilical rupture, the opening must be carefully made into the swelling, because the covering, are often very thin, and the hernial sac adherent to the skin, or intestines, or torn. The cut through the coverings should be made perpendicu- larly. If after opening the sac, and the proper disentanglement of the intestines, and so on, reduction cannot be effected, a director must be introduced between the neck of the sac, and the navel-ring cut into downwards with the button-ended bistoury. If previous to the operation, the impossibility of returning the rupture, on account of the existing adhesions, should be perceived, if the parts of the rupture be not gan- grenous, a semilunar incision is to be made at the bottom of the swelling, on the right or left side, through the skin, the thin aponeurosis carefully divided, and a director attempted to be introduced at the upper or under part of the navel-ring, between it and the neck of the sac, and upon it the button-ended bistoury for cutting into the navel-ring; or if this be not possible, the point of the left forefinger, with the nail turned down, is to be placed between the neck of the hernial sac and the under edge of the navel-ring, and upon it a cut with a straight bistoury is to be carefully made from without inwards with a gentle motion of the hand. But if the parts in the rupture be gangrenous oi self-strangulated, the sac may be carefully opened at any convenient place. The further treatment is to be guided according to the ordinary rules. [Astley Cooper mentions “one circumstance of danger which is peculiar to the umbilical hernia, which is, that when the skin has become very thin over the tumour, the pressure simply of the protruded parts, under strangulation, will sometimes very early destroy the life of that portion of the integument by stopping the circulation through it. It first turns green, the cuticle then separates from it, and that portion of the skin becomes ■ dry and of a brown colour ; and in the instances in which this circumstance came under my observation the patients have died.” * * * “ Suppuration,” ‘lie also observes, “now and then takes place in the omentum oi an irreducible umbilical hernia.” (p. 35.) ' As pregnancy is not an unfrequent cause of umbilical rupture, it is rather curious that t strangulation at this period so rarely occurs. If it cannot be overcome by. the usual * remedies, the operation may be resorted to without the patient’s condition rendering it less hopeful. Astley Cooper mentions oue case operated on successfully in the eighth i month of pregnancy (d); Lawrence one in the seventh or eighth month (e): and Clement another in the fourth month (/).] (a) Muller, pi. v. ft) Above cited: .. ’c) Loder’s Journal fur Chirurgie, vol. li. p. 1. 'll) Above quoted, part ii. 347.