EXARTICULATION OF TARSAL BONES. 946 ferred to the side-flap scheme. Syme considers this operation applicabl to many diseases and injuries of the foot, in which, excision of the affected ■ bones or amputation of part of the foot being inefficient, the practice pre viously followed had been that of amputating below the knee. Th advantages promised by amputation at the ankle-joint instead of the ope' ration near the knee are, first, that the risk of life will be smaller ; secona that a more comfortable stump will be afforded ; thirds that the limb wil be more seemly and useful for support and progressive motion. The risk of life must be less, because the parts divided and removed are not near! so extensive as when the leg is amputated, hardly indeed exceeding thoss concerned in Chofart’s operation ; because there is less room fo hemorrhage either immediate or secondary, owing to the smaller size o the vessels cut, which are merely the branches of the posterior tibial, ant - the anterior tibial artery very near its termination; and because the eavi i ties of cylindrical bones not being opened, the danger of exfoliation fron the dense osseous texture and of inflammation in the medullary veins i avoided. The stump will be more comfortable, because it is formed o. parts peculiarly well calculated to protect the bone from injury, and no disposed to contract like the muscular tissue ; because the cut ends of tin nerves being smaller, will be less apt to enlarge and become the seat o uneasy sensations ; and because the absence of exfoliation ensures com plete union of the integuments over the bone, and the limb will be more useful, as well as seemly, from full play being afforded to the knee-joint without the embarrassment of an imperfect stump. This operation has beer successfully performed eight times by Syme himself, and also by severa others. n.**_OF EXARTICULATION OF THE TARSAL BONES. I am rather doubtful whether this subject should be here noticed, oi whether it should be referred to excisions; but upon the whole it may perhaps be considered as belonging rather to exarticulations. The needfulness of removing or exarticulating either of the tarsal bones seems to be restricted to the astragalus and navicular bone in cases of compound dislocation ; but I have not known any instance in which the latter has been removed. In very rare instances the astragalus may be thrown out from all its connexions through the skin by violence ; a cat*- of this kind occurred some years since to my late friend Hammond oi Southgate, in which his patient having jumped out of a gig, with his horse had run away, the astragalus was jerked completely' throu., the skin on the front of the instep, and hung only by a few shreds of cel- lular tissue, which having been divided, the bone was removed anc patient recovered. . More commonly the astragalus is merely detached and throwni ou from the cup of the navicular bone, which happened in a case of n y colleague Green’s, several years since (a), the so-called head of the^L bursting through the skin below the inner ankle. If the bone cannot oursuug b ,. , . . ohnvfl and from replaced, itmust be exarticulated from the ankle-joint above andfrom its connexion with the heel-bone below. The operation is tedious its connexion with the heel-bone below, the operation »- —^ j tiresome, and it is requisite to cut through lie remains of the 9 plantar ligament and the other ligaments which connect the bone (a) A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 330. New Edition, 1842.