386 FOREIGN BODIES 1738. In those cases in which the foreign body forms no percepti swelling externally, and for the purpose of especially projecting the w of the oesophagus, it has been recommended to introduce a silver cathet or a forked curved sound, through the mouth into the oesophagus, and raise its left wall into the wound. The arrow-sound has also been advi for this purpose. Riciierand (a) objects to the introduction of any strument into the oesophagus, as a guide. Vacca Berlinghieri (6) b ij however, proposed an instrument by which cesophagotomy is more e and effectual than by any other mode. 1739. The patient is placed on a low stool; the head held four against the chest of one assistant, and the rest of the body by anotl t The skin-cut is to be made on the left side of the neck, in the direct*' of the thyroid and cricoid cartilage, on a fold of skin from the upper e< of the thyroid cartilage to two inches below it; if the m. platysma myou be not then cut through, it must be divided with a second stroke of the kn. into the underlying cellular tissue. The ectropoesophag, with the sprrn thrust fully forwards and thus completely closed, is to be introduced deeply into the oesophagus, and so directed that its lower end correspond to the lower angle of the wound. The fore and middle fingers are n to be introduced into the side rings of the canula, and the thumb into t of the shaft, which being drawn back, its spring end is set free, and with olive-shaped knob, the wall of the oesophagus is thrust into the wound. 1 instrument is now held steadily by an assistant, the cellular tissue ca fully cut into, and the oesophagus laid bare by drawing the m. star mastoideus backwards, the m. sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideiu t wards, (with the assistance of the finger or a blunt hook,) and tt the m. omo-hyoideus, which crosses the wound obliquely, is divided oi director. The oesophagus now appears to more than the extent ot inch, and must be cut into on the side, and a little forwards, between canula and the diverging arms of the shaft, for two lines above the oh shaped knob of the latter, and the cut enlarged upwards as far as n seem necessary. A blunt hook is then introduced into the f°Pha^. keep it steady. The ectropoesophag is now taken out, and the tore* body removed with the finger or forceps. The ectropoesophag may be so easily arranged, that it may be used even if the operat be performed on the right side. 1740. According to Begin (c), it is impossible to operate upon t oesophagus in the region prescribed by Yerduc-Guattani s p > properly to introduce the instruments recommended for mtroducuu others, and to retain them in suitable position, as the irritated par bear constant touching, and the breathing lias already become dim ^ His method, which is founded on the most careful considera u anatomy of the parts concerned, and which has been severa performed on living persons, is the following :—T lie patien » narrow bed, his shoulders and chest slightly raised, the hea • ^ back, and supported with a pillow, and the neck m°deratcly ^ The operator standing™ the left side makes a out though ^ V ifc The operator buuiumg uu tnc id. oiw, - ~ ,:„Ar>inp the groove between the sterno-mastoid muscle anil the n IP*’ he begins a finger’s breadth above the sterno-clavicular articulation, (a) Nosoeraphie Cliirurgicale, vol.liS. p.260. Cb) Journal von Graefk und von aether, vol. V. p. 712.—Chirurg. Kupfortaf., pi. cxxxv. (c) Diet, dc Med. ct dc xii. p. 152; and Nollv 'i‘<'m^ond Edfiion- Med. Operat., vol. i. p. beco