363 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. ion to keeping the whole length of the urethra stretched will generally prevent this, or t may be corrected by elevating the handle of the instrument so that the point disen- ables itself, and will then pass on without hindrance. The point of the instrument 5 also not unfrequently stopped, by depressing the handle too early, that is, before it has . ompletely entered the membranous part of the urethra, in which case it strikes against he front of the suspensory ligament, and will not pass further. The greatest care ■>! iaust therefore be taken that the instrument has passed well beyond the ligament before ..he handle is depressed and the point tilted up; and if then it will not enter the bladder t, cithont much difficulty, it is better to pass the finger into the rectum, and the end of the .astrument being felt, it is in general easily directed into its proper course, and little - isk encountered of thrusting it through the urethra between the bladder and pubes, or •, etween the bladder and rectum, which, especially the latter, is of not unfrequent oc- •. urrence in not very practised hands. When the instrument has entered the bladder, ii (ps point can usually be freely moved in any direction; but when it will not move but irorward after its handle is depressed, it is pretty certain it is not in the bladder but in a . .Use passage, and must be withdrawn, and fresh attempts made to carry it in the proper irection, instead of thrusting about and doing serious mischief. The frequency of in- -oducing the instrument must vary according to the irritability of the urethra; in some i • ases it cannot be used more than once a week at first, as it will frequently produce :t were irritation in the passage, and be followed by shivering, and occasionally a hot fit it afterwards, and it may be necessary to defer the second introduction for even a still ‘anger period. But if no febrile excitement follow, it may be introduced every third or > econd day, which is generally often enough. It is also very advantageous to bathe the v erineeum night and morning with warm water, and even immediately after the intro- : uction of the instrument, if it have caused much irritation ; and if there be continuing ain, it is best to apply a few leeches. Going into a warm bath twice a week, and the i! se of leeches to the perinceuvi as frequently, if the stricture be very obstinate, will be ften found to assist very materially in hastening the introduction of the instrument, and f ie widening of the stricture. If the patient be desirous of keeping the passage free, he l Mould persevere in passing a large bougie once a fortnight, long after the cure appears 9p have been effected, as there is always great tendency to its recontraction. Some surgeons consider the introduction of a bougie is rendered more easy, by having its tip neared with extract of belladonna. I have tried this plan, but I think not with much dvantage. If any benefit be gained from it, it will not be immediate; the bougie thus neared must be passed down to the stricture, and left in some hours, after which it ■lust be withdrawn, and another introduced. It may, however, be doubted whether the fiere residence of the bougie in the urethra has not more to do with the relief than the peration of the belladonna; for occasionally a bougie thus managed, as recommended ; y some French Surgeons, will facilitate the introduction of an instrument which pre- lously would not enter the stricture. I do not like cat-gut, nor elastic gum-bougies ; they ; re tough enough to do mischief, but not sufficiently firm to enable us to judge of the ressure made with them, nor to guide them properly. I ca‘lnoj say that my experience, as regards the wearing a gum elastic catheter for the ! lre °f stricture, has been so successful as Brodie has found it. Frequently the irrita- on set up by it in both urethra and bladder has been so great as to compel its removal • 1 although I think wearing a silver catheter is more easily borne, if the patient be pt m bed, which, under either mode of treatment, I have always found necessary to ™^ CVen then 1 have kn0WE in one instance a slough of the urethra take place in , Zufi the scrotum’ without warning, in the course of a few hours; so that, although the ZT seemed t0 be going on well at one visit, on the following day the first step f awards a certain aperture in the urethra has been made.—J. F. S.j * 16?4’ 1 be time which the bougie should remain in the urethra must pecially depend on the sensibility of the patient in general, and of the re hra in particular. It must be so managed that the patient shall suffer ie n t- Pam aS Posfible- Tbe bougie should, therefore, remain only till uarw"^?]?11^!118 of Pain’ which on the first daY does not exceed a • iinutp<i °F nrv .an h°ur’b,lt in an irritable urethra not longer than a few av Tf fi If in*;r()( Action must be repeated about every other or every “brilp lthe;°Ugle b? left in Ionger, severe pain; swelling of the testicles, f tt.p t rnpt0m'S’ and abscesses near the urethra, often occur. The use ougie must then be suspended for a long time, and the inflam-