TYING THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 241 still space sufficient (a) for tying the axillary artery, and this operation is ually possible only in aneurysms at the upper part of the brachial artery. 1450. Tying the axillary artery may be performed in two situations, raely, first, by cutting through the great pectoral muscle, under the •liar-bone; and second, by division of the tendinous interspace between e pectoral and deltoid muscles. The patient either lies on a bed or sits a sloping chair, with the shoulders somewhat depressed ; an assistant .nds behind, and is ready to compress the subclavian artery, if bleeding auld occur during the operation. 1451. In the first mode of operating, a cut must be made through the n, commencing an inch from the sternal end of the collar-bone, and ntinued along its under edge towards the coracoid process of the blade- ne, as far as the cleft which separates the pectoral and deltoid muscles, this direction the connexions of the great pectoral muscle with the jar-bone are divided, and thus the lesser pectoral muscle is exposed, ich, beginning from the coracoid process, crosses the lower angle the cut. The point of the finger is then to be introduced between ■ coracoid process and the lower edge of the collar-bone, and the artery here found surrounded, upon the outer side, and partially covered by : brachial plexus, and upon the inner side by the brachial vein. The ery is now to be carefully separated from the vein and nerves, and a gle ligatui e carried round it with Deschamps’ needle, before with- ering which, the artery should be compressed upon it, for the purpose of •ertaining that it alone is taken hold of. The small arteries wounded ing the operation are to be tied at once, and the wound kept clear of od. The dressing and after-treatment are to be conducted according ;he former general rules. ® he direction of the wound in this mode of operation is variously advised. The most °„rnwiatlT ar®~tl?at ^commended by Lisfranc, in which the cut is commenced an inch from the sternal end of the collar-bone, in the pit formed by the clavicular and al parts of the great pectoral muscle, and carried three inches below the collar-bone • le practice recommended by Zano and others, who carry the cut close beneath the' (k 8111 Hlng 'tS ™iddle’ and continue it for two and a half inches down- ds and outwards, nearly to the coracoid process. ' 452. In the second mode of treatment, if the artery be not tied so near collar-bone a cut is made of two and a half inches length, from the er edge of the outer third of the collar-bone, towards the inside of the t'cL armmnn ihe intersPac? between the great pectoral and deltoid X J le le?f Pect°ral muscIe is cut off at its insertion to the , Tle' ,The forefinger is now to be carried deeply into the luV d, paf,ed aP°.n the surface of the m. serratus magnus, till its tip Trltr£? ^ finger is n°W Curved’ and> following the outeMin subscaP?lai\ muscle, is again carried forwards, up to ,Pt roundP 2 , W0U? m 6 pkm- Ll tWs Wa^ is the whole armpit v underthe Ilia6 T °f VGSSels and nerves> collected immedi- l fer the collar-bone, are without difficulty brought to the external ^ between the edges of the wound, and fixed with the Lier Here artery ,s easily isolated and tied (5). g 6 # ed^anyothe0/ Way*^o^meTwith 617 1? r Uher m°de ab°Ve recommended, or T ion of the vein so mu^in from of it favour among practical Surgeons; the tront ot xt> and lts almost complete envelopment by the a’inique^L^tae, vokW p Chambehlaine, Medico-Cl.ir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 'OL n (i) DELPEOH.Chixurirle ClininnB A 1 Jelpeoh, Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. It