32 SYMPTOMS OF STRANGULATION lence and rough handling. I have observed not unfrequently, that by keeping quiet, after the most careful attempts at reduction have failed, the rupture returns either of its own accord, or with a slight assistance on the part of the patient. 1166. If the reduction succeed, the symptoms usually soon cease, and relief of the bowels ensues either of themselves or by the use of purgatives and clysters (1). If the inflammatory symptoms continue, they require corresponding treatment. The abdominal ring should always be examined with the finger, in order to ascertain that no part of the rupture remain in it, as may be the case, especially in external inguinal ruptures, in which I have several times observed, after a tolerably bulky, and in one case, even very large rupture, had returned, and the external ring was free, that there was strangulation of a small portion of intestine at the inner ring, which rendered the operation necessary. But if under the treatment prescribed there be no satisfactory change in the rupture, but on the contrary, it become more hard and painful, the belly tense, and the vomiting more frequent, neither the use of other remedies, nor attempts with the taxis are to be persisted in, but the operation must be had recourse to. The treatment proposed for strangulated rupture, in reference to the employment of remedies internally and externally, and of the taxis is very various. Although these several modes of treatment may be grounded on many good results, the above- described method must be considered most preferable, if it be employed with discretion and proper circumspection. The position of the patient under the taxis, with his feet or knees upon a person s shoulders; the vertical position of the body, in order thereby to effect the return of the intestines through their proper tendons, and the application of ice poultices upon the rupture Ribes) (a), with the pelvis raised and the head depressed; the posture upon the opposite side, with the thigh drawn up on the affected side (Hey) ; even the position on the knees and elbows. Continued pressure on the rupture with a weight or bladder of quicksilver of from two to five pounds ; or by the patient’s hand. Shaking the whole body by driving in a wheel-barrow (Preiss); injection of air into the rectum, and drawing it off with a clyster-pipe. The introduction of a thick elastic tube through the rectum into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, after O’Beiern’s manner {It), who con- siders the collection of the intestinal gases and the spasmodic closing of the rectum as the most common cause of strangulation. The application of dry cupping-glasses about the hernial swelling, or of a glass bell, out of which the air may be pumped by some strokes of an air-pump, till the rupture is as high again, after which it either returns • of itself, or is easily reduced with the taxis (c). Clysters of hyoscyamus and bella- donna ; a mass of belladonna ointment smeared over the interior of the rectum; or a bougie smeared with extract of opium and of hyoscyamus, of each two grains, passed" into the urethra (Ribieri. Guerin). Purgatives of all kinds; rubbing of croton oil on the belly; galvanism (rf); clysters of lead wash (Nesiber, Rennerth, Preiss); tartar emetic. (Church) ; muriate of morphia (Bell.) [(1) It is perfectly true, that in general after reduction the symptoms of strangulation I subside ; but now and then they do not, which may depend upon the damaged condition of the bowel, or simply on the existence of peritonitis. Instances of the latter are not j very uncommon, and can scarcely be distinguished from the symptoms of strangulation, except by the absence of the hernial swelling. Of the former I had an example under my care in 18-U), which was a source of great anxiety, and terminated fatally. Case.—J. S., aged seventeen years, ruptured himself on the right side whilst lifting hampers into a cart in the afternoon of Nov. 30, and immediately observed in the scrotum a swelling as large and as long at his thumb. Half an hour after he began to vomit, and continued to do so through the night. On the following morning the taxis was unsuccessfully employed, and afterwards? (<t) Gazette Medicate, July, 1833. (i) Dublin Jour, of Medical Science, Sept. 1838. ’c) Huaf, De usu Anllito pneumatic® in arte \ <c medica. (iardae, 1818.—Kohler; in Hecker lit. Annalen, 1835, April. (d) Archives Generates de Medecine. 18-6.