508 COMPLICATED HYDROCELE; (n) (Elivips Cliinirgicales, vol. ii. p. 441. tion between absorption and secretion on the inner surface of the vaginal rj canal. This disease is frequent, but in many cases is not observed, par- q tially on account of its slight degree, and the child’s constantly lying on his , n back, and in part because it subsides of itself. It is not unfrequently 3 accompanied with protrusion of the intestine or omentum. 1962. The cure depends on getting rid of the water, and closing thejH vaginal process by the adhesion of its walls. Viguerin endeavours ta| effect it by pressing back the water into the belly, and closing the abdo- i minal ring with a truss. Desault, after returning any existing rupture,- and carefully closing the abdominal ring by pressure, punctured the swel- ling, emptied the water, and injected red wine, which after a little time he< withdrew, and wrapped the whole scrotum with compresses steeped in red’ l wine, and applied a truss (a). 1963. Although the treatment of congenital hydrocele, with injec- tions, has, in many instances, been successful, it cannot, however, be denied, that it always has a very serious effect on little children, and j that dangerous inflammation may ensue. Viguerin’s practice is, there- fore, always preferable, and may, perhaps, cause a more certain cure, if the pressure be sufficiently strongly made on the upper part of the f vaginal process, and a suspender, moistened with spirits of wine, vinegar,'; and muriate of ammonia, or any other astringent fluid, be at the sanies time worn. 1964. If the vaginal process be adherent merely above the testicle,: and thence open into the cavity of the belly, a bladder-like swellingjj is formed by the collection of the water in this open part, which may j extend even into the cavity through the abdominal ring. The water s can be returned but slowly into the belly. The treatment is the same i as in the previous case. £ 1965. If the abdominal mouth of the vaginal canal be closed to the pillars of the abdominal ring, and the other part remain open, the water■» collects in that part even to the bottom of the vaginal tunic. In this; case the swelling terminates at the ring, and the water cannot bd pressed back into the belly. 1966. If the vaginal canal be obliterated above and below, a cyst is i formed in the part remaining open by the collection of water, w hich i cyst is connected with the peritonceum, and extends from the abdominal i ring to the testicle. After lying on the back the swelling is less tense; but it becomes more full and elastic after long standing. If com- pressed, it recedes a little, but quickly reappears. The spermatic cord < may be felt below or behind the swelling. 1967. The treatment of these last two kinds of congenital hydrocele requires, in most cases, only the use of dispersing remedies, by which, m children almost always, their cure is effected. These are rubbing in ; mercurial ointment, or spirituous fluids; the steam of vinegar; fumiga- tion with mastic, amber, or sugar ; lotions of spirits of wine, red wine, the acetated liquor of ammonia, alum dissolved in water, with a little sul- phuric acid ; dispersing plasters, and the like. If not thus cured, the * water must be emptied by puncture, and the radical cure by injection, or by blow ing in air, resorted to. In cystic hydrocele, in children, the dxs- - charge of the water is best managed by puncture with the lancet; bu