511 ORIGIN OF increased quantity of uric acid, on a diminished quantity of the urin * with the like quantity of uric acid, and on the diminished temperature o M the urine, in consequence of which the uric acid is deposited either in tli :i form of gravel, or, being united by some connecting matter, forms th i ■ larger concretions. The quantity of uric acid is increased by the use c • food abounding with azote, flesh meat, strong wine, liquors, want of exen cise, and the like. The quantity of urine diminishes whilst the quantit of uric acid still remains the same, in violent sweating. And the tempera ture of the urine diminishes in advanced age, on which account gravel i then of common appearance. The above cases are also especially favour able to gout; and, therefore, between gout and stone there is a close alteit nation. . . j 1983. von Waltiif.k assumes, besides the excessive production oj un acid, a change in its quality, at least in reference to its degree of oxida tion, and a more or less copious secretion of a connecting gluten. Thes three circumstances arise from a vital influence of the urinary organs 01 the fluids contained in them ; and the activity inducing lithogenesis, con sists, if not in an inflammation of the mucous membrane of these partsI (as believed by the English physician, W. Austin,) at least in a state analagous to it.' Hence originates a more copious production of the con' necting substance which takes up the precipitated particles of the strongly oxidized uric acid, and thus gradually forms the nucleus of the stone I Without this connecting matter, sand and gravel alone are produced. Thd presence of this gluten, especially prevents the crystallization of the con stituent parts of the stone and the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate alom is most frequently crystallised in stones. Lithogenesis is to. be cofisi dered as a medium between chemical crystallisation and organic growth!! but it has always the greater disposition towards the latter. Stones are characterised by their organic structure ; and their proces of formation is comparable to the origin of indurations, scirrhus and thd like, von Walther distinguishes between urinary incrustations o foreign bodies, in which the phosphoric acid salts of the urine are depo- sited in a similar way to that in which the dipping of a foreign body mt< a solution of salt produces its crystallization, whereby the outermost la) ei of most urinary stones consists of phosphates, and urinary concie ionst the formation of which takes place as above described. In regau 0 several kinds of stones, he considers the relative want of hydrogen in ( urinary system, to be in all cases a necessary condition in the production J stone, both as regards the concretions of uric acid, and those wine i con tain oxalate of lime. Excess of azote appears to determine the origin the former as the want of it does that of the latter. Between thei COM cretions of uric acid and the gout there is a relation similar to that betw the phosphatic concretions and the imperfect development of the bo y ^VStGITl. • • 1984. Wetzlar has endeavoured to controvert both these °Pinl0"^ In opposition to Magendie, he asserts that, although in many ca~ ‘ gravel depends on the absolutely or relatively increased quantity o ‘ uric acid, the production of concretions of uric acid often occurs u circumstances which do not produce uric acid in excess; nor does deposit take place when the urine contains very much urate o , for instance, in the critical urine of fever, where sediment < <, form until after the urine has cooled. Against Walther s 0