CAUSES AND PROGNOSIS OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. 767 [ 6 usually unsuccessful. In the progress of the disease a peculiar dyscrasy (par. 2394) is set up by the absorption of the matter produced in the diseased organ. Opinions upon the causal nature of cancer are different. Some denying a peculiar disposition, consider cancer to be a local complaint, which only produces a decided dyscrasy from its spreading. Others allow no specific nature in cancer, some hold it infectious, others not. Even the assumption of a specific dyscrasy arising out of can- cerous parts is denied, because the neighbouring glands often swell, before the scirrhus is disposed to ulcerate; because, further, the glands often even when the disease has long existed, are not attacked, and the experiments of the capability of the poison of cancer to infect contradict this assumption (a). Many deny the absorption of the cancerous ichor, and a dyscrasy depending on it ([b), whilst Langenbeck (e) showed microscopi- cally the presence of cancerous matter in the veins, and after injecting into the veins of a dog found tumours in the lungs, the cancerous nature of which was shown bv >?o i microscopic examination. J The swelling of the neighbouring glands may indeed be also produced by pressure, i and by the propagated irritation. Relapses of the disease after removal commonly i depend on what has been left behind. In those cases, however, where the scar has been l ?°r many yeai?> k*1 the disease again breaks out, it is more probable that the cause of P4 lts recurrence is a decided predisposition (1). | th's P°'nt John Hunter (d) observes“ Some suppose cancers to be . ereditary; but this I can only admit according to my principles of hereditary right • 1 t;1 s> s.uPP°s 1 ng a person to possess a strong disposition or susceptibility for a par- S t T6’the Chl,dren.may also; but I have not yet ascertained the generalitfof f Zjf' 1,In man^ pCTSOns tt.would seem that some of the predisposing causes are suffi- I certain st?teCi°ue the.immediate ones; as when the diseased action takes place at a i certain stated time, without any immediate cause.” (p. 623.)] P ( /T406, ^|ie occasional causes of scirrhus and cancer are, all mischief which produces a constant but not intense irritation, blows, continual ■spressure, bruises; irritating treatment, or any injury of an ulcer, a hard- ness oran excrescence; internal diseases, especially scrofula and syphilis, , 6 c°nsequent swellings and affections may assume a scirrhous cha- acter. Cancer is most frequent at the critical periods of life when A °f production declines, and especially in organs destined for I J* uctlon and propagation, as the womb, testicle, and breast. Women l. more su|3.)ect to it than men; in like manner, also, persons who 11lead *seden,ary ,i4 and -xtoi | but from accTdent oft'Ts “‘J01^ the disPosit>on of the parts alone, n if them! ' , ” c °ften se„e Amours in the breast at thirty, and probably some I observes “ Thf°US t ath()ugh scrofula is more to be suspected.” (p. 622.) He further * oreasts and /Th partS m°St dlsp,os,ed t0 cancer are those peculiar to the sexes as the I ’roportioSnTs^cn^ J" SCff“s.and cancer is always unfavourable, and ' >adconstHu o n ? o thev lmP«rtance of the organ affected, the rr he syCom^Lcomt ^ ^ is hereditary disposition, when i vhen general dvsom i ^ln^ cancer are very painful and destructive, and general dyscrasy has set in. The more superficially the scirrhus or i .?)4rFANi; , vr- .. Alibkrt, above cited, p. 558. e ica e. 1844 ; vol. (®) Schmidt’s Jahrbuclier, vol. xxv. part i. W Lectures; in his Works by Palmer, vol. i.