834 VARIOUS MODES OF REPARATION COMPARED. Although the cure of the nose be completed, yet in progress of tin very considerable changes may take place in it which will materially chan< . its previous form and condition. If the nose have at first a tolerab { shape, yet it may gradually shrivel, especially on its two sides and uppA part, the granulations which were developed on its interior becoming, at last connected on both sides, so that the two halves of the nose into one solid mass, by which its root shrinks, whilst its fore part thicken h the nostrils contract, and are almost entirely closed at the end. Suoj shrivelled noses in no respect resemble the engravings which have bet- given of them soon after the operation, and are as remarkable in the* form as they are disfiguring. All endeavours by subsequent attempts, ■ improve the shape of the nose, are generally fruitless, although experienot* proves that wounds in such new noses are easily curedAiy adhesion bij union with the neighbouring skin usually cannot be effected ;and cod j monly takes place only after long-continued suppuration. 1 hese circunj stances require serious consideration in settling the value of many p a, -*- operations, and specially that of rhinoplasty, m order to guard excessive enthusiasm which this operation has excited among many of W* and these are the circumstances which have led some practitioner*I Klein (1), to prefer mecl.anical to organic restoration of the nose (1) Klein (a) insiders an artificial nose of lime wood preferable to one made fro- th e skin of the forehead. , 4 * 9535. As regards preference of the various modes of organic restora iod and specially of the nose, putting aside the totally ineffectual transp J “on of a completely separated portion of skin (1) and the employe If the skin of another individual, that method is to be generally prefer*j ta which the restorative flaps are obtained from the neighbourho£ rath than that by which they are obtained from a distance. The Indian mot [s for the patient far less painful and its result more certuJ than^e I*J» method, and if the nose-bones be deficient, the vault of the - - tolerably supplied with a pad formed by turning mthe flaps 'l h remaining' on the forehead, which has been objected to in this JST/disappears, so that little or no defoi^tyispro^orf- 0.n when the skin of the forehead cannot be made from the skin of the temples, which although t be more tial, and its connecting strip be longer and usually sufficed^ ment vet is a much more considerable injury, and the hairs g ^ upon*the nose cannot always be completely “ "JP* can 'on repeatedly pulling them out. 1 he skin of the cheeks and upper P be used hi partial defects of the sides of the nose. 1 he t as given by Grabfe, is indeed less tedious ban the Italian but. , only in ve?y healthy persons with very healthy skin. Buth^Jvanc fastening the arm to the head subjects the patient to the wn s tl.<> flans die more readily, and if suppuration ensue on its cell the difficulty is further increased by its spreading over the sm a'detach( m , c'mnlv raring the edges of a destroyed nose and transfern gU | poltiol of skin from some «j*^J**& fSSSt'sS «***• \ (a) Ueber Rhinoplartik ; in Hoidelb. klinisch. Annalen, vol. • P-