THE ANEURYSMAL SAC. 231 . : | ff from the aneurismal sac.” (p. 147.) In some of Hunter’s cases the pulsation did intinue; and it is probable that there is always some degree of circulation through { ie aneurysmal swelling, after the ligature has been applied, although not sufficient to mvey an impulse to the walls of the sac, which is only produced when the disease has kisfed so long that the anastomosing vessels have begun to enlarge and bear a share in lie circulation, as they do in spontaneous cure of aneurysm. It is not also “a curious ■rcumstance that the natural or spontaneous process does not affect a cure, on the prin- tfpleof the Hunterian operation, by completely arresting the passage of the blood into the .the;” for, as just noticed, Hunter’s operation proposes nothing of the kind. Nor is ijie “ natural or spontaneous process in strict conformity with the principle of the ■aeration I (Wardrop) am now endeavouring to establish; that is, by the formation ra barrier in the artery beyond or at the distal side of the aneurism.” Nor is it cor- at to state that “ in a case of aneurism Mr. Macicelcan found that nature had nearly mipleted a cure of the disease on this principle for “ the carotid artery was plugged ip, and the large aneurismal swelling was filled with a coagulum, leaving only a com- iratively small channel for the blood to pass into the subclavian artery;” fp. 61) ihich was certainly not a barrier in the artery beyond, or at the distal side of the leurysm. The operation of tying the artery beyond the sac may be permissible in .me instances when its ligature on the hither side cannot be performed, but the prin- ple on which it must be conducted, and the success which may be therefrom expected, .ust be otherwise explained than as Wardrop has set it forth.—j. r. s. With regard to the operation of applying a ligature beyond the aneurysmal sac, awrence (a) observes “the circumstances under which aneurisms are placed, in ■ference to the trunk, and with respect to such an operation are not always alike • in ct, we may distinguish two cases in which the results of this operation may be very .fferent. In the first place, we might reasonably expect to succeed if we could place a .ture upon an artery leading from an aneurismal tumour, under circumstances that mid prevent the current of blood through the aneurism. We should expect here the [me result as when we cut off the supply of blood, by placing a ligature between the Jieunsmal tumour and the heart; but there are very few arteries that are so circum- .weed, perhaps the carotid artery is the only one. If an aneurism be situated at the wer part of the carotid artery, suppose the common carotid artery be then tied we ;1'!ow,7 u.° brauch Is eiven off between the ligature and the aneurism, by means of hich the circulation in the tumour can be carried on; therefore, if it were tied effec- • iere,C0Uld be no current of blood through the tumour, that the coagulation si lght take place necessary for the cure of the aneurism. Mr. Wardrop first tried the .‘^bSnenhvanprf °f ^ “I Jt W?S C01?Pletely successful. The operation was lnv»i,y perforrFed,ln a case of aneurism of the carotid artery, and it appeared again rioH W *RCOmPuete y saccessfu1’ so far 35 the contraction of the tumour was con- I med; but the patient unfortunately died in consequence of htemorrhaee from thp .oper onfiee of the artery where it had been tied, from the remote orifice Tf the tery, a circumstance, however, that does not at all diminish the value of the inference } u ,def wthfr°m the °Peratl0n’ 35 fai: as regards tbe principles upon which it is i terv thp^ ’ come to aneurism on the trunk of the axillary, or femoral [ -P imrl , fi 1S duffe ; lf we tle the vessel beyond the tumour, in either case there j ciwrm t f mranaCheMPVen off 1between the disease and the ligature, by which probably leuSof S I™1 CrinUfy- be kGpt UP throu*b tbe In a case o7f ' the vessel bevmd p^*7' f°r lUStanC®’ we. s.llould hardly be able to tie the trunk ■ofundo 'bp loO d Uff above the ongin of the profunda ; if, therefore the i a”,“riS,mal “V!r°m “? beSS Se divecirculati^n wbi 1 1 ihe art6ry hasbeen tled’we should exPcct from the il. l ' ct at r e kept, UP througb the tumour, that the operation would ■ tuated nenr t! , of the axillary artery, there are a variety of large branches -tween them and the t^our ^et£0Ul<l UOt ?pply a Hgature the®distal side, ■ the blood through ^ b™nch*S w.ould keep UP ‘he circulation mature were annhe ThT G Same,way tbat * would be maintained if no ’inciple; that mwhichTbp tW° c.ases.seam> therefore, to be very different in point of : >ves off U bU^Ie t wcem bp ^ 15 nf.ar the funk, and where the vessel jtnated, that numerous hr-meh\l d ,tbe hgatllre ; and that in which it is so ‘ nd the situation of brdncbes are g'ven off between where we can apply a ligature one of experience • ?ti,1'.a8,1 bave ^ready saffilhe S be application of a’lieatare 2, thJ? bT ^c',' y ,t"ed* we cannot venture to assert that ■ ••—.loiTr; zt ssi'i; isy -* ■*“•* «■** («) Lecturos in Lancet, vol. ii. 1830.