STONE IN THE BLADDER; 546 each other. According to their chemical composition, they vary i reference to their firmness, colour, and the like. In most instance.' the stone lies loosely at the bottom of the bladder; but not unfit quently it is attached at one place, which may occur in different way* First. The stone sticks in the orifice of the ureter, or, in escaping fron the ureter, it slips between the membranes of the bladder, and en larges, so that it lies in a cavity of its own, which communicates wit the bladder itself by a roundish opening. Second. It lies in a diverti culum of the bladder, or in a hernia of the bladder (4). Vhird. In man persons the inner surface of the bladder has a peculiar net-like disposi tion, by which fan-shaped hollows are formed ; and if the formation o a stone begin in one of these, the hollow is gradually enlarged, am the stone is, for the most part, overspread by the internal coat of tin bladder. In proportion as the stone increases, the enclosing mem brane stretches, so that it is connected to the other part of the bladdal merely by a neck (5). Fourth. Stones, which form in the prostah gland, may partially project into the bladder. Fifth. In consequent of the irritation of the stone, and the inflammation depending thereon : false membranes are formed by the exudation of plastic lymph, whiclj partially cover the stone. . Stones which are enclosed and held fast in one of the above ways ( Calcid saccati, Lat. ; Umschlossenen und festgehaltenen Stevie, Germ. ; Cal culs enehatonnes, Fr.) must be distinguished from the so-called adherent stones, ( Calcidi adherentes, Lat.; Anyewachsenen St cine. Germ.; Cal culs adherens, Fr.,) a term which can only apply to those cases in whicl excrescences, fungus, and polypi of the bladder become incrusted (a). C(l) In reference to those stones occasionally met with, and which being contracted in their middle, have somewhat the shape of an hour-glass, Taylor (b) observes:— “ It has been conjectured that in such cases they have been partly lodged m the orifice of the ureter or in a pouch of the bladder, and that the growth ot the «««'«'* has continued unobstructed at the two extremities, while it has been prevented in the middle by the constriction of the orifice. But the deposition of crystals, even on trn constricted portion, seems scarcely consistent with this explanation, unless it is ceived that they were deposited after the calculus had escaped into the cavitj oi bladder.” (p. 83.) . . , (2) The size of stones is very variable. The largest stone is, I believe, t Sir Walter Ogilvie, which is in the College Museum H 2, consisting o m phosphates: it weighs forty-four ounces, measures sixteen inches around its oug and fourteen around its short axis. Its origin seems to have been nee - having received a blow in his back from the boom of a vessel, '"hen "on • •. years of age; in consequence of which it was necessary to draw ott his w «. • a catheter for two months; and for a twelvemonth after he was obliged to ’ P bed, in a horizontal posture; his bladder, however, recovered its; powers.a J; years after, symptoms of stone having appeared, and sounding having leu , belief in the existence of a large stone, the operation was advised, but not as to. He continued to become worse, and towards the latter end ot bis me .. “make no water, without standing almost on his head, so as to cause the uppe 1 of his bladder to become the lower, and this he was obliged to do frequenu}, times every ten minutes, as the quantity voided each time was less than tne of a wine-glass. At last, however, thirty years after the accident, he was o g out, he was determined to have the stone removed, which could now he i fa the pubes, forming a large prominent tumour, and below it prevented the entr; of sound into the bladder. The operation was attempted by Cline, but n of sound into tne oiauuer. i ne operation was attempted by C line, uui **y ‘ 0f forceps could be introduced till a soft part of the stone having 'x'en ,°’ m0I.(, till, it was broken away with the finger, and then the forceps broke aw ay , (a) Houstet, Observations sur les Pierres en- nbovc cited, vol. i. p. 59->.- "lllB ’ kvstees et adherentes ii In vessie ; in Mem. dc cited, p.424. 1 'Acad, de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 39j.—Deschamm, (i) College Catalogue, r»rt 1.