453 ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. [|j' Osiander believes the common blood-swellings cannot be confused with the congeni- til diseased bone swellings, which certainly belong to those very great rarities, in which ie bone is swollen in the diploe (?), in which swelling however the upper table is u .'.ever wanting, but only spongy and raised. With such swellings of the bone nothing >'"in be done; and cutting into them would certainly always be followed by death, if*hat Osiander here has mistaken blood-swellings which had already gone on to ossi- ; A-ation, and has given of them, as has Burchard, a false description, there can be no 1 Lmbt . In a case, where two swellings on the right parietal hone, the one more than • e other presented the above-mentioned conditions, and in which several practitioners serted a suspicious degeneration of the bone, I made known the true nature of the dis- r se and advised its being opened ; and its fortunate result verified my opinion, coagu- iheil blood escaping after the opening. In another case which I showed Naegele, he mitted that he should not have known it for a blood-swelling (a). ( 1857. The prognosis, if the disease be properly treated, is generally not ^favourable, if it be unconnected with syphilis or atrophy. All blood- i.ellings on the heads of newly-born children either disperse in the space * fourteen or twenty-one days by absorption of the blood poured out ’■neath the pericranium, or they subside after a longer time, after the j veiling- has become as hard as bone, very gradually. From the fear of .e bone becoming affected from the continuance of the blood under je pericranium, from the opening of the tumour being omitted or Jayed, which is not supported by experience, and from not knowing Dat. happens to these swellings if left alone, persons have been led to 3. e proposal of the most different reasons for their treatment. At least Ahave seen, up to the present time, in many cases where the pericra- I mot has been ossified, very large swellings subside without a single B Cident, in the course of a year. ■\858. The treatment of blood-swellings aims either at their dispersion I' increasing the activity of the absorbents and thus removing the blood 1 eniptying the blood by opening the swelling. 11859. I’lle dispersion of these tumours is usually attempted by vinous, c. imatic applications, by applying a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia’ i. d wash diluted, arquebusade, decoction of oak bark, and the like. It ? pears, however, that with the application of these remedies, the neces- Idly accompanying slight compression perhaps contributes more to the v the mere °Peration of the remedies. I know instances in 1 he dispersion of these swellings followed simply from compression J "J Pad anc] a c]ose-fitting hood ; and it must also not be forgotten that W In°\these swellings, especially if they be small, entirely subside with- - ■ m/ftrmt™nt' Henschel and Schneemann have recommended as r.Zf e?1(CkIent remedy, compression by means of a hood, lined opposite IwTrrii/i HeSWe Wlt,h S6yeral folds of tinfoil. In no case should > whipli ;m° °r^°1C1 aPP lcatl?nf) or much compression be employed; ► Jbt ui mar.llfold1 respects injurious influence might be excited. I U vly-bohrri f.CMlViere bi a S'ugle CaSe °f blood-swelling of the head of * , bad res.d dren’ tum0ur was left to itself> which ever had r< cessarv • n, i’ °t f whl?h the °Pening would have been considered (i m ten to f T * io}Tmer]J asserted on this Point, that if in a space of 1 not dimin'isl T 1 T’ th® :swe.,hnS under the above-named treatment I?eSze Tt w!bei^U^t remained equally large, and was of unusually I )erience assert hof tf-^V1Sable to. °Pen 80 can I now from repeated iger It u thls Practice is to be considered safe and free from must, however, apply only to those cases which occur very («) My observations; in Heidelberg, klinisch. Annalen, vol. iv.