EXARTICULATION OF 950 Scootetten, also, directs that the first cuneiform bone should be sawn off; tl operation of the m. tibialis anticus is not thereby interfered with. 2781. According to Lisfranc, the operator, after having ascertained the position of the parts, grasps the fore part of the foot with his le: hand, and with his right the catlin, then places, if he operate on the rigl foot, the hind part of its edge behind the projection of the fifth metatarsi bone, so that the edge forms a right angle with the axis of the joint; h divides the soft parts from without inwards, and a little from above down wards, and when he feels he has penetrated into the joint of the metatarsu with the cuboid bone, he raises the handle of the knife and passes throug the first two joints with the point held vertically, then through the thir joint, when he inclines it towards the toes, for the purpose of gettin; round the outer projection of the third cuneiform bone. He then finishe the division of the soft parts above by a cut which ends beneath the inne projection of the first metatarsal bone. He divides the cellular connexio; if the retraction of the skin be not sufficient. The hand of the operator i held prone, and with one cut before and another behind, he gets round with short strokes from before backwards, the projection just mentioned finds the joint at about the distance of a line, where it is distinguishable b; the absence of any obstacle, and by a little depression ; he readily passe- through this by describing a slight curve, the concavity of which correspond to the cuneiform bone. Without giving the foot any other direction, an< without the blade of the knife leaving the joint, the operator directs it, hek in the same position it had in passing over the inside of the first metatarsa' bone, between that bone, the first cuneiform, and the second metatarsa bone; he inclines the handle of the knife forwards so that its point mat penetrate deeper, and then raises the handle suddenly towards the tarsus. s< as to divide the ligaments. He proceeds to the hinder articulation, which he dislocates a little, brings the edge of the knife in a transverse direction and ends by dividing the connexion of the second metatarsal bone with the third cuneiform, by an opposite movement to that which had divided the connexion of the first metatarsal with the first cuneiform bone, taking cart to brino- the point of the foot slightly inwards. Attention in using on J the point of the knife in the exarticulation has the advantage of no injuring the soft parts in the sole, and of penetrating more easily the bones. The operator continues the operation by dividing the hin ligaments, holding the parts to be removed, vertically, and not nulrV located. He then carries the whole edge of the knife forwards, c the hinder edge of the metatarsal bones, and forms a Hap front t ie so_ ^ the foot, two inches long on the outer and inner side, and thick in so that it readily unites. After tying the vessels and cleansing the " > the flap is brought up over the surface of the wound, kept in its place '' ^ sticking plaster, covered with lint and compress, and supported moderately tight bandage. The foot is now placed in a rather raise* J ., tion upon a pillow in the bed, the leg half bent and laid on its oute ’ so that the discharge from the wound may readily escape , that the discharge from the wound may readily escape. ^ If the operation be performed on the left foot, the operation * ii _ : -Tr»r\f n 11 rl tlio nhnvp.nipnt inn fid dllC?Ct.lOH- JL1 lliu uucxawun J ' . * begun on the inside of the foot, and the above-mentioned directior knife must be followed out. . , . t5nn of this 2788. Munzentiialer (a) gives the following descriptio ^ . operation. The operator, placed on the inside of the lnno, i (a) Above cited, p. 20.