77 WITH TWO SACS. Case 3.—A. W., aged fifty-five years, a spare, healthy woman, was admitted in the afternoon of Nov. 4th, 1828, having ruptured herself on the right side ten years ago, since which time she has worn a truss constantly, which, however, has not fitted, and the rupture has been so much incarcerated five or six times as to need assistance for its reduction; but it does not appear certain, from her account, that its entire contents have been always returned Yesterday evening, (her bowels having been twice relieved during the day,) whilst engaged in her usual occupation, mangling, the rupture came down beneath the truss which she took off, and, having returned the protruded parts, felt no farther incon- vemence till 11 o clock this morning, when it again came down, and, having attained larger size than usual, became painful, and made her sick and faint. She could not return the rupture, nor could her medical attendant, who twice employed the taxis during the afternoon, and then sent heron that evening to the hospital, where the warm- bath and taxts were resorted to, but without avail. When I saw her, at 6 p.m she had been constantly retching for the last five hours, and so continued, raising, how- ever, nothing more than a little transparent, colourless fluid. She had frequent eructa rrTaS6d I7 T PreSSUl;e ?n the swelling; the belly is full, but not tender, and ^I,. ?™p!a,ns ?n|y ofPa'n at the lower part, near the rupture ; pulse small; countenance pallid and anxious ; the bowels have not been relieved since yesterday. ahnn?0tLoa fiPART ® ,liga™e,nt ''T a.larSe tumour of an oblong shape,’ extending from about three fingers breadth to the inner side of the upper iliac spine, into the right pudendi. It was more prominent, bulky, and rounded, at its outer end era fflrr4 ^ 1!Pr°Caeaed lnwa,'ds- and reaching the lower part of the mans Veneris bent down at an angle and descended for the distance of an inch into the labiZi The anH fl °f thC swellmS was firm and unyielding, but the labial portion soft ow», i, was determineTto JpC"’ S''1- ““S ",h neariy T ““If from t]?e middle of the firm swelling inwards ot^er^overin^were^then fein ^ ,aDgleS ™th and *S little dark-coloured serum escaned and' Jw*™7, Tn °r °Peniug the hernial sac, a of omentum burst through the’ aperture and “ ^ divided, forthwith a quantity sided. This nortinnnfJ,/P’ and th® s'velhng m the labium at once sub- was firm and matted together ™/h remainder, forming the bulk of the swelling dark-coloured but bright°and ffidematousD u1S1“g d a k,unckIe of iutestine was seen’ could not at first pa£ h “y ^ger int° 1116 sac I supposed to be an old adhesion w t • I as * TaS lutercepted by a band, which side, I was enabled to reach and foundthe ome1ntum and gut to the outer tip of the finger, but sufficient to allm d ricture very tight, and admitting only the -Wch I divided, >°Vhe bluat-“ded bistoury,JwUh then readily emptied the rmt nn,i ♦, P‘ S? jDto tbe belly, up to the second joint I was thought that the diffi^n’, n attempted to return it, but could not succeed ' It freed, anf ! therefore not having been suSntly tum and intestine to the otoer side Thshn the b^toury, by drawing the omen- was seen descending from the upper part of' f°T- a broad membrane he passed. It was this drmhfie(,cPP n*Pi n the sac, behind which the finger could into the stricture, and’subsennenV]'Vhlw first Prevented the introduction of my finger by dropping against the moSof Ve s^c^W d ftrance°f the S* into the be!ly done without further dilatation nfthe t • . We determined on its division ; and this omentum was partially adherent to t^e lntestlne easily returned. The mantny, and its matted part r^hS bn,S ?> the SaC’ and being 111 rather large and three little vessels in it disposed to £ d’& greater portion of it was removed emptied was found to be "n«ltied- Tbe «> having been thus »r peritoneal lining, , did „ot obj J.^SVetvSS'Sot, “