434 PUNCTURING THE BLADDER, THROUGH THE RECTUM; Upon puncturing the bladder above the pubic symphysis, the following works m be consulted:— Mery ; in Histoire de l’Academie des Sciences. 1701, p. 378. Bonn, above cited. Mursinna, Neue medic.-chirnrg. Beobachtungen, p. 391. Berlin, 1796. Palletta, Della Punctura della Vesica orinaria; in Giorn. di Venezio, vol. ix. p. 2 | Desault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 317. Meyer, Dissert, de Paracentesi Vesica;. Urlang., 1798. 4to. Soemmering, above cited, p. 52. Schreger; in his Chirurgischen Versuchen, vol. i. p. 211. Abernethy, Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 189. Eothe, Wiirdigung der Methoden des Harnblasenstiches ; in Rust’s Magagd vol. xvii. p. 281. 1824. In puncturing the bladder through the rectum, after havi> cleared the rectum with a clyster, the patient must be laid on the edge ■ a bed, so that the depending thighs may be bent and supported apart 1 ; assistants. The Surgeon introduces his finger oiled into the rectum, abo six lines above the prostate gland ; then carries the curved trocar, with point retracted, upon it, to the part where the finger determines the pun ture should be made. The handle of the trocar is now sunk against t buttock, and at the same time the point thrust forwards out of the canul and the trocar pushed in the axis of the pelvis to the depth of an in< to an inch and a half. The stilette is then withdrawn, whilst the lefthai steadies the tube. The urine having flowed through the first tube, second, with a rounded end, is introduced, and both fixed by means of cleft compress and T bandage, and tapes drawn through the rings. The works which may be consulted on puncture through the rectum are Pouteau, Melanges de Chirurgie, p. 500. Lyons, 1760. Hamilton ; in Philosoph. Trans., vol. xvi. Reid, A., An Enquiry into the merits of the Operations used in Obstinate Suppu sions of Urine. London, 1778. 8vo. Klosse, Dissert, de Paracentesi Vesicse urina per intestinum rectum. Jena, 1(91. Home, Everard ; in Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Medical a' Surgical Knowledge; and in Practical Observations on the Treatment of Stricter in the Urethra and the (Esophagus, vol. ii. p. 329. Second Edition. Carpue, History of the High Operation for the Stone, p. 176. London, 1819. 8t 1825. Puncturing the bladder through theperinceum, is the most ancie practice, but at present almost entirely given up. In this operation, eith the urethra and neck of the bladder are opened directly by a cut in perinceum or the cut is made upon a staff, (boutonniere,) into the neck • the bladder, or the bladder is pierced with a trocar, which is thrust either directly in the middle of a line supposed to be drawn from t ischial tuberosities to the raphe, two lines in front of the edge of the the point of the instrument being directed first parallel to the axis of t body, and then thrust somewhat inwards; or a cut an inch and a 13 long is made half an inch to the left side of the raphe, beginning bene®# the bulb of the urethra, and ending by the verge of the anus, throug cellular tissue and muscles ; whilst an assistant presses the bladder ovr. the operator’s forefinger of the left hand introduced into the wound, as** tains its position, and then upon it he carries a thick grooved troc directed somewhat upwards into the bladder. The urine having been charged, the outer wound is lightly filled with lint, the tube plngg fastened as in puncture through the rectum.