[ 870 ] III.—OF INTRODUCING A SETON. (Setaceum, Lat.; Eiterband, Haarseil, Germ.; Sdton, Fr.) 2638. The Seton consists of a strip of linen unravelled at each edgefl or of a strand of several cotton, silk or hempen threads, which are drawr | i _ .. 1 dionhnrrrQ QnH **■ or oi a stranu oi seveicii cuuun, ~—7 into the skin or into any tumour, to keep up a continual discharge, and im certain degree of inflammation, for the purpose of diminishing any tumou. m by continued suppuration, and to keep up the passage through any canakj The introduction of a seton is managed in different ways. ■ 2639. If the seton be passed through the skill, a fold of skin must b<* lifted up vertically in the neck, with the finger and thumb of the left hand f and pierced at its base with the seton-needle, m the eye of which is thd| strand of threads or strip of linen, and as the needle is drawn out, the* follow it. If there be not any seton-needle at hand, the raised fold of skii j must be pierced with a double-edged bistoury, and an eyed probe armew with the seton-threads carried through the opening thus made. Both open- ino-s are to be covered with a wad of lint, which is fastened with sticking! plaster, and the loose ends of the seton put into a compress, and retainer with a proper bandage. [Of late an Indian rubber tape, about three-eighths of an inch widftimdi has1 been used instead of threads or linen, for a seton. It is much better than tV>P latter as it does not set loaded with matter and become offensive. It is easi} passed, after thrusting a double-edged bistoury through the skin, through the opening thus made.—J. F. S.] 2640. Passing a seton into a cavity containing fluid, for instance, am abscess is to be managed as already directed {par. 57) ; or a somewhat curved silver canula is°used, with a stilette, of which the front end has trocar point, and its hinder end an eye, through which the strandgMj threads^ threaded. The swelling is to be pressed, so that it may be made sufficiently prominent, and the canula well oiled, with its point projec^bi* m^betost through its lower part into the cavityaf4. ■ the point of the stilette drawn back, and the end of the tube carr the upper part of the cavity pressed against the skin, and then thestil thrust through. The tube is now drawn out at the lower the stilet the upper wound and the threads introduced into the cavity. 2641 If the seton be passed into a swelling which does not contain fl » either 1„ needle or a stillette with a trocar point to » used and carried in such direction, and so deep ) g considerable tumour as not to run any risk of danger from wounding . j "led? After the seton has been introduced it may be left alone for some days till suppuration lie set up in its track ; then, after removmg th dressings and washing off the crusts at the wounds with £3 a fresh portion of the seton may be drawn through, the part alrea ^ cut off some distance from the wound, and the dressing renew — way the ae.cn is to be managed daily, once or .« a day ‘^ the decree of suppuration and the object purposed. 1 into remedies may be smeared upon the ajton rtrrnci an.i mth ' * a ne the canal of the wound ; and when> ^ -band ]f the set0„ strand I I It tne canai ui uib — . tp the seton one may be attached to amt drawn throng, ruth ,n K lhi„. thickening, more threads are to be added to it, require