[ 926 ] (n) Klein, above cited, p. 46. IV.—OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FORE-ARM. (Amputatio Antebrachii, Lat.; Amputation des Vorderarmes, Germ.; Amputation de l’Avant-Bras, Fr.) 2725. The fore-arm may be amputated with the circular cut, with two or with one flap. The patient either sits on a chair or lies near the edge of his bed. The brachial artery is compressed by an assistant, or with a., tourniquet, in the middle of the upper-arm ; the fore-arm held by one> assistant at its lower, by another at its upper part horizontally, and in an position between pronation and supination ; the latter assistant at the samei time drawing back the skin moderately tight. The operator places him- self on the outer side for the right, and on the inner side for the left arm. 2726. The practice with the circular cut is precisely the same as that for amputation through the leg. Both bones must be sawn through at once. Amputation with a single flap is performed with the flap on the inner (front) surface of the arm. At the part where the bone is to be sawn through, the narrow double-edged knife is to be placed vertically upon the radius, and whilst with the fingers of the left hand the skin and muscles are drawn inwards (forwards), the knife is passed vertically on the inside (front) of the bones, so that its point may project on the ulnar side, directly' opposite the point of entrance ; it is then carried down along both bones,- and with its edge inclined outwards (forwards) cuts out. The length of the flap must depend on the thickness of the fore-arm (par. 2721.) Upon the back of the fore-arm and a finger’s breadth from the two angles of the 4 wound, the skin is to be cut through with a transverse cut, dissected back to the angles, and the operation completed as in the flap-amputation of' the leg. If two flaps be made, the first is to be formed as just mentioned, the knife is then placed in the upper angle of the cut, carried on the outer (hind) surface of the bones into the lower angle and then forms a second flap corresponding to the first in length. Both are then held back, so that whatever remains attached to the bones, and the interosseous membrane, may be divided as in amputation of the leg. The doubly cleft cloth is then applied and the bones sawn through. In amputating through the fore-arm there should be, as through the leg, sufficient skin to cover the ends of the bones completely. After the circular cut, three or four ligatures are usually sufficient for tying the ves- sels, and of these, the interosseal artery requires the pressure on the brachial artery to be relieved, so that its mouth may be seen. In single flap-amputation tying the vessels is more tiresome, and with two flaps even eleven arteries may be tied (a). [Not unfrequently in flap-amputations through the fore-arm, the muscles retract less than the skin after division, and consequently the tendons are often left projecting ana cannot be properly got in, on closing the wound. When this happens, as it does nios usually in the lower third of the fore-arm they should be shortened about an inch witn a the knife. It must also be recollected, that the ends of the radial and ulnar arteries are to be’ looked for at the edge of the front flap, and sometimes the muscles will have retracted from them so much that they actually stand out, and for the moment may oe mistaken for little tendons. . Amputation through the fore-arm should always be made as near the wrist as pt sible, so that the socket of any kind of artificial hand may have better hold. The amputations I have performed through the fore-arm were only five; ot was primary for accident, and four for scrofulous and other diseases. I have not