706 CARTILAGINOID BODIES Home, Everard ; in Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical a Surgical Knowledge, vol. i. p. 229. Desault; in his (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. i. p. 288. Biermann, (Praes. Heilmann,) Dissert, de Corporibus juxta Articulos mohilibi subject. Observ. Wirceb., 1796. . Abernethy, John, On the Removal of loose substances from the Knee; in lus Si gical Works, vol. ii. p. 213. Gunther, Dissert, de Muribus in Genu. Duisb., 1811. Lander, Einige Bemerkungen iiber die beweglichen Concremente in den Gelei kapseln; nebstzwei Beobachtungen iiber die Ausschneidung solcher Korper aus d» Kneigelenke; in von Siebold’s Chiron, vol. ii. p. 359. . . j Larrey, Notice sur les Cartilages mobiles et contre nature des Articulations; id 1 Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. ii. p. 421. Schreoer, Beobachtungen und Bemerkungen iiber die beweglichen Concremet- in den Gelenken, und ihre Exstirpation. Erlangen, 1815. Kohler, Dissert, de Corporibus alienis in Articulis obviis. Berol., 1817. Hancre ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. xxvii. pt. n. p. 449. tj 2271. Cartilaginoid bodies are sometimes formed within the capsules • joints, and are either loose in the cavity, and can change their place every direction, or are attached to the capsule by a neck, and vary co. siderably in regard to their nature, size and number. , 2272. These bodies are most commonly noticed in the knee-joint; d they have been seen in the ankle- elbow-jaw-shoulder- and wrist-joint They have generally an oblong flattened form, with rounded edges, ai a smooth glossy surface; they are, however, met with r°uW' even very irregularly shaped. Sometimes they are very soft, frequent almost cartilaginous, sometimes bony, but much more common y laginous and bony together, and then have a bony nucleus. kuch asa quite loose have often a peculiar, completely uuorgan.zed appearan^ are rough, granular, and have the exact shape of the space they occup. These bodies vary in size from that of a grain of hemp to that ofanalmom and larger ; the ordinary size is that of a large bean. In general there only found one such body, though frequently several and even a gre number. I have seen in one person three, and in another two- . . 2273. The symptoms which these foreign bodies m the caw J* produce, vary according to their size, form, seat of their and according as they are loose in the joint, or sLll attached ^^ If such body be not large, and if it be developed in that part tl ^ where it is unaffected by the rubbing together of the ends of tl bo^ and if it be attached by a short stem, it may exist for a^great• leng 1 * without producing any symptoms; but if the stem o w • attached be longer, so that in the different between the ends of the bones, violent pain and suddc 1 tf moving the joint are produced, which symptoms do not c . ^ foreign body have again escaped from between the bones,■ °cbt motion is often sufficient to cause this pain. So long as i hf.tween tl by the stem, can the patient precisely point out where it J *» J® d 0 ends of the bone. In the knee-joint these bodies are genemlly * * one or other side of the knee-cap, and can be distinctly yariable; forwards. If the body be quite loose, its position is e J a «*. »* ns te loose, ns puamuu .o • — j . an gets'into different parts during the various movements of pai the patient himself can, by pressure on the joint, an J ,vnlpton even the patient himself can, by pressure on me ju,..., - j ton ticular movement, push it into any position he pieces. n foljowed b ■rise either gradually after previous violence, which has b arise either gradually