TREATMENT OF HYPERTROPHY OF THE FEMALE BREAST. 795 toms of affection of the air-passages and lungs, dry cough, sometimes frothy, sometimes streaked with blood, difficult breathing, hydrothorax, hectic fever and death. 2460. On anatomical examination of hypertrophic breast-gland, there is found besides the increase of substance and enlargement of some acini, no other variation from the natural structure. More fat is collected in'the loose cellular tissue; the arteries are unchanged ; the nerves indeed, not smaller and thinner, though backward in comparison with the size of the breast-gland; the veins are always much distended, and their structure changed, and the milk-vessels swollen and enlarged. 2461. The cause of this hypertrophy during the period of development is al\\a\s the sympathetic relation of the breast with the internal gene- rative organs, which may be increased, by various causes, as the use of irritating exciting food and drink, irritation of the breast by feelino- it by libidinous excitement, by washing and rubbing with irritating substances and the like. At a later period of life, however, I have noticed this hyper- trophy in women, in whom the functions of the womb were quite reo-ular, and no further cause could be discovered. 2462. The object of the treatment is either the diminution of the excessive formative activity, or the removal of the gland with the knife, liie former mode of treatment, which can only have a satisfactory result, in the beginning of the disease, when at the time of menstruation, a prickling feel in the breast, or its increase of bulk occurs, requires, fe-pecially in full-blooded persons, and congestion of the breasts, bleeding rom the feet and internally, nitre with camphor, vegetable and spare diet, and the avoidance of those influences which may excite the living activity of the affected part. With greater swelling, iodine, burnt sponge with dyitahs, rubbing in ointments of iodide of potash or of mercury, and the application of cloths smeared with camphor, leeching from time to time and continued pressure. After three or four weeks a pause may be made’ when the patient may live a little better, and then the previous treatment maj be resumed. The internal use of extract of hemlock in increasing oses, and the application of camphorated hemlock plasters, I have founcf after previous antiphlogistic treatment, do good service. On the failure of SandmtoanS^INfRHU™ (a) haS,Seen gl'eat effect frora excitin&the breast- g and to action by constant application of a milk-glass, or of a cimoino- fc’as a tl7^ v,6 SWe!!ing is thereby at first increased, the dragging ’ ci subsides’ and \n the course of some weeks the enlargement eeascs with the appearance of secretion of the milk. g and If VPhe °Uh!S trfatmant’ the enlargement 'of the breast proceeds “ml a„d? t ,0n,- e.aff^‘ed’ the removaI »f tho breast i/the only 6 P.at,en'Wl1. ”«• to it, the breast must be sup- portelwtth a suspender, attending at the same time to the secretions and 24^a,,d exercise in the open air. “’d biology JS'oOhe brelrea?f “e"11"'^ generally, applies to the ^ many instanced itl ! ?' } causes.may be internal or external, the irritation ( f tl 1 , 3 Wlblont any manifest cause, and the origin of sympathetic rektinn ^ ^ !na^j' Pei iaPs> in many cases, be founded on the corn “ m“tlng bet"reen the breast and the womb. Hence Women in who, H '/ aPPears aJ. f le period of decrepitude, in unfruitful men in whom the functions of the womb have never been properly er Hypertrophic der Bruate; in Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. iii. p. 159. 1836.