777 TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE TONGUE. of cancerous ulceration. Various swellings and ulcers which occur on the tongue, very often assume a malignant appearance; the loose tissue of the tongue, its continual moisture from the spittle, and pointed, decayed teeth very commonly keep up stubborn sores. Not unfrequently the papilla on the dorsum lingua enlarge and form fungous excrescences. Syphilitic ulcers of the tongue commonly degenerate into cancer. 2428. The prognosis depends on the seat of the disease, its extent and cause. If an ulcer of the tongue have assumed, in consequence of con- tinual irritation or improper treatment, an ill-conditioned character, it may often be cured by proper local and general treatment; to which treatment the Surgeon is restricted in those cases of ulcerated cancer which are beyond the reach of any operation. Every irritant, every mischievously projecting, irregular, or sharp tooth, must be removed, the tongue protected by covering the other teeth with wax, talking entirely forbidden, the mouth often cleansed with lukewarm water, or a solution of extract of hemlock with honey, only bland food taken, and in bad cases all solid food avoided. If the glands beneath the chin be swollen, or the ulcer very irritable, leeches must be applied repeatedly. The patient should frequently during the day hold carrot- pulp in his mouth, which operates partly as a fomentation, and partly as it has the effect of completely preventing the patient from talking and moving his tongue. Instead of the application of a solution of°lunar caustic, or of dilute hydrochloric acid, three to four drops in an ounce of water, and sometimes a solution of arsenic, as recommended by Henry Earle (a), I employ mild soothing remedies with the best effect. Ex- tract of hemlock in increasing doses may be given internally. For sy- philitic ulcers, mercurial treatment, and Zittmann’s decoction may be employed, and in other cases, the several preparations of gold. If by these remedies the progress of the ulcer cannot be checked, it is decidedly cancerous; or if there be a scirrhous swelling, the removing of the deo-e- nerated part is necessary, provided that no general dyscrasic disease keep P ie affection of the tongue, that it be not degenerated at the root, and that the neighbouring glands and tonsils be not affected. It must, how- ver, be remarked, in reference to the last point, that the application of hn<rJ(/,)!eC 16S at firSt antl °f a few aftenvards> °ften disperses this swel- IIeyfelder (e) thinks that in scirrhous hardening of the tin of fh» t , Pemi0n “*? »• **md a* long « there i, „„ ,roce §f ,ra“i,S *• 2429. The removal of the cancerous part of the tonsrue is managed i„ the itTff"ay V tllC °Peratlon for shortening a very large tongue (par 916?') • ge S’ ThVer’ r°trdinf !° thC Seat and ext-‘ ^ S.e cancerous de- I "• f. ‘e [,a,tl.ent seated on a stool> and having his head fixed bv an is th^T^ behlud hlm> Protrudes thc tongue as far as possible which Pair of nolbe f‘d W“h ‘.h? fi"S“8 covered with lE or with a tire,, i " -1'i1' l>rceP9i with wiiicii the back of the tori'.ue is arasoed firnilv 5SK S ,Corfahn:' kV 1 U,e drr' Part is to wS S tt’finTe^ degenerated Lrt Wps’, a hooJ or a thread passed through it. The toury ,,rwh ^ »ovv drawn forwards, is to be cut off with a bis- ’ r with the kneed or Cooper’s scissors ; the direction (®) Above cited, p. 285 W LikPHANc ; in Revue MeJlcale, 1827. vol. ii. De CXRtirI™tione Llngmo. Erbtn- Zungenkrebs; in Studien im Gebiut eder Ileilwisaensclinft, vol. i. p. 183.