PROGNOSIS AND DIAGNOSIS 684 absorption. Before the tumour bursts through the outer fable of skull, that part of the bone crackles under pressure of the finger. 2226. When the bone is destroyed and the fungus has arrived un«l the coverings of the skull, it presents a regular, circumscribed more cl less elastic soft swelling, over which the colour of the skin is unchang sj This swelling in general enlarges but slowly, and presents as characterise signs ; first, the sensation of pulsation, as observed, though more active l>jj in aneurysm; second, the edge of the hole in the hone, through which iJ tumour protrudes, is distinguishable around the whole circumference {1 the swelling, more or less rounded or sharp, and having numerous poin <j projections ; third, on the condition of this bony edge depends the grea ts or less painfulness of the swelling ,• fourth, the possibility of returni n the swelling into the cavity of the skull with sudden cessation of its pa is fulness, under which circumstance, the fungus is no longer exposed to t \ influence of the edge of the hole in the bone. With the external p il trusion of the tumour, is often connected danger of very urgent symptoi as small pulse, vomiting, continual gulpings, cold hands and feet, f u quent faintings, and cold sweats over the whole body. These symptor j together with loss of sensation, palsy, and loss of intellect, may beccii sequence of keeping back the fungus by art, or by change of position II the other side. 2227. The pulsation often diminishes as the swelling increases, and - scarcely perceptible; the edge of the hole in the bone may also be cc tj cealed as the outer part of the swelling spreads over it. The skin 1 : coming still more tense, reddens, thins, at last bursts, and a fung ' protrudes through the opening, which bleeds frequently, and secretes < ichorous fluid mixed with blood. Hectic fever arises in consequence » this loss of the juices, of the restlessness, and of the violence of the pai ; and under the colliquative symptoms death ensues, preceded for a long ! or shorter time by a sleepy state, frequent faintings, loss of some of t 1 senses or of the powers of the mind. 2228. Examination after death exhibits a swelling of a brownish colot j sometimes more or less grayish white, at some parts often a medullaij substance, of which some lobes are enveloped in their cellular tissue, and* a certain extent held together. This substance is penetrated by more less vessels, in general connected not very firmly with the dura and not at all organically with the edge of the hole in the bone, but on | retained by the pointed projections and dentations of the edge of the bon ^ Upon the external surface of the bone, the edge of the hole is sharp defined, but on the inner table it runs off obliquely, so that the injNj plate is always further destroyed than the external; a decided proof ' the fungus has burst through the skull from within outwards. This « also shown by preparations, in which the fungus not having )' completely destroyed the bone, the external table is undisturbed, at neither the bone nor the pericranium in any way diseased. Not unn quently such swellings appear on several parts of the skull in vario^ degrees of development, just like swellings situated on other bones 2229? Fungus of the dura mater is distinguished by the scribed symptoms from other diseases of the skull, from °.n9San melicerous, and atheromatous swellings, and from hernia eerc n, specially as the latter either exists from birth or is produced a