TREATMENT. 143 open, of which I possess a very beautiful preparation. The uterus is as large as a child’s head; above the retroverted uterus is the bladder which has been ruptured. It is remarkable that in this rupture of the bladder, which has arisen from its over disten- sion, it is not the front, that surface of it, I mean, which has no peritoneal covering, but it is the posterior surface, invested by the peritoneum, the back part of the body, which is the region of the rent. Now it was this which first led me to propose, that where a rupture of the bladder takes place in any case, but especially in a retroversion of the uterus, we should not give the patient up for lost; for if there is reason to believe that the bladder is burst into the peritoneal sac, we might make an opening into the peri- toneum—s&y above the symphysis pubis,—by which we might discharge the urine, and then injecting distilled water, of the temperature of 98°, we might wash the viscera so .perhaps as to prevent a general peritonitis; this done, we might draw the bladder’up !t0 the opening, and close the rent by ligature. This operation I have performed on several rabbits; m one or two experiments I brought the bladder out, tied it up, and took away about one quarter of it, viz., the whole of the fundus, and the animal did perfectly well. This operation I have never had occasion to try on the human subiect • but in a case otherwise desperate, I should be inclined to recommend it I may here remark, that since I have suggested this method of closing the bladder by ligature, Mr Travers (a) has performed the operation on the stomach ; there was a slight wound in the organ ; he boldly tied up the aperture; the thread came away, and the case did per- fectly well. (pp. 19, 20.) It must not be supposed that Travers made the ligature on the wounded stomach from Blundell’s suggestion ; Astley Cooper had long before tied up the hole in a gut, wounded during the operation for strangulated rupture, and the case did well. Travers himself had also, some years before Blundell’s proposal onsidered the mat er, related experiments on the subject, and laid down rules for the ongSfore ** bENJAMIN ^ ^ meationed this T-stion^ven i312 The treatment of retroversion of the womb consists in emptying he womb61- and rCCtUm’ and °n the restoration of the natural position of •nth3!3 EDStTg the. bladc,er is effected by the introduction of the inS t’i 'VhlC - 1S rendCTed easy lf with two fingers of the one hand, that cl11™ oppofte the Pubic symphysis, be smoothed and pushed pwards or if its more elevated position forbid this, if it be merely pressed >achwards Thjs manipulation is not without advantages even1 if the nee of the urethra be so much drawn inwards, that it cannot be seen ’ f any other obstacle to the use of the catheter exist (c). When drawing i ite»^rpossible’p“ctoing Madder I .n§?e'2 wilhlfeut? ot deS?‘ed Tf fySterS, (WhiCh «“ often stacked with suitable treatme^™1510™8 ^ alS0 present> they must be : ombtrv^/ PThe™Sf7 '7^ °f *■"> Averted » >e base of the womb is !!? b?^ placed on her knees and elbows, " ivel, with two fingers introduced^? f?rwards and npwards towards the -ay perhaps be assisted by two fin 16 rectum (f) ; which manoeuvre I. . by tW° fin^ers passed into the vagina, and mthefir8t volumeoftl,is KPTr ^ others. ’ •’ Saxtorph. Richter, nn.l