REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. 923 1S3T continued. ieorge Powell, Hged 22 (towing- rope man), ad- mitted June 4. 1S3S umes Trussler, •iged 27 (excava- tor), admitted lan. 12. lomas Berridee. -ged 44 (ware :ou*eman), ad- lifted April 10. 1839 rnard Lane, fd 54 (porter) imitted Jan. 31. Stilt aged (labourer),ad- dled March 2. Cartwright, '^(labourer), itted May 28. Hattam, " 57. admitted pt. 10. Accident or Disease. Severe laceration of lower part of left leg, and crushing of the lower end of both its bones, by transit of train of steam- carriages. Compound fracture of tarsal bones of left foot, with large laceration and wound of ankle- joint, by transit of steam-carriage on rail- road. Operated Strumous abscesses in the ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus, of seven months’ dur tion. Compound fracture of the right leg, with protru- sion of the shin-bone; consequent on bag of wool falling upon him. On the second evening there was slight urterial bleeding, which recurred on the slightest move- ment, nna continued. The wound became gangrenous on the third day ; and seemed likely to spread, ns he was fast hurrying into a typhoid state. Compound flrncture of left leg, with severe lacera- tion, and the shin-bone protruding, Croat de- pression on his admis- sion. Ulccrntion of cartilages of the tarsal and metatar- sal joints of the left foot ; consequent on sprain fifteen months since. Dry gangrene of toes of right foot. Jon.12. Three hours and a-hall after accident. June 2. Feb. 2. Midnight Fifty- seven hours after accident March 3 Twenty- six hours after accident. June 15. Nov. 2fl. Remarks. Dis- charged. July 11. May 29. Sept. 18 June 4. With circular cut; the muscles did not retract at An hour all ; three arteries tied; did not lose much after. blood, but was much prostrated by the opera- tion ; edges of wound brought together trans- versely, and three sutures put in ; the latter removed at sixty-nine hours. On the ninth day the middle of the wound sloughy ; and the skin having been pressed on the spine of the shin-bone, had a small gangrenous spot on it; suffered much from pain in the stump. On the fifteenth day this had cleared off, but the stump was still sloughy, and the absorbents up the thigh had inflamed. In the evening of thiB day had severe pain at the pit of stomach, which subsided after cupping. A small bit of bone exfoliated from the spine of the shin- bone. With single flap of m. gastrocnemii; six arteries tied; too much muscle and too little skin, therefore part of the former left protruding, and the rest supported with two sutures and plaster; sutures removed at forty-two hours, and a small vessel which had continued oozin^, was tied. On the seventh day the wound was sloughy, and there was slight arterial bleeding ; on the eleventh a sudden gush of arterial blood, to the amount of half-a-pint, occurred, which depressed him very much ; the flap was therefore opened, and a cavity found behind the interosseous ligament, which bad been formed by a muscular branch in the flap bleed- ing into this part when the flap had been brought to its place ; it was tied, and the bleed- ing ceased. On the forty-seventh day a small piece of the end of the spine exfoliated. With circular cut; he suffered excessively during the operation, and in sawing through the bone more than I had ever witnessed. The muscles did not retract; did not lose above two or three ounces of blood ; three arteries tied, and ed-'es of wound brought together obliquely with strips of plaster ; an hour after verv free drip- ping of blood, and on opening stump five more were taken up; the stump left open, and six hours after three more, after which the wound was brought together with strips of plaster. With the circular cut; very free bleeding at the operation; three arteries and the posterior tibial vein tied ; the wound brought together horizontally with straps of plaster. He im- proved at first after the operation ; but on the evening of the fourth day after the operation, became suddenly and violently delirious. On the fifth he began to vomit frequently, and the stumn was sloughy; next day he was better. On the eighth day was attacked with trismus, nnd could scarcely swallow even his spittle • the muscles between the lower jaw and hyoid bone wereviolently contracted, and the latter forcibly pulled up between the branches of the former. On the ninth had some severe spnsms about the throat like those of a hydrophobic patient when about to drink. On the tenth day became tm deJth l0tamC’ ‘n Whlch 8tate hc continued With circular cut; lost very little blood; two May 29 arteries only tied; wound brought togethc? V horizontally, with a single strap*5 of plater- the dressing completed four hours after with ulnstcr. Part of the stripped-up skin had been used for the covering, but this alounho 1 as dul afterwards the whole of the skin snved • the wound healed kindly by granulation. ' With circular cut; five arteries tied, and two Aim 27 more two how. nfteroa'd,. Tm hour,\ftor g' the operation the wound mi brought together horizontally, and fixed with fou? pin, and twisted suture ; these wore removed after fifty. cS^Z^a-haVl •“*“ »f'^ ^itlnn '“Si Ccl ’ r°Ur "r'<'r'<''‘ ticd ">0 <>Pe- Feb. 4. ration, nnd four more seven hours after, and tn another hour n ninth, and then the stump dressed with plaster. Free oozing of bloodv scrum for several dnys. On the tenth day the greater part of the sic in covering the face of tho stump was sloughy ; ten days after tho line ot demarcation became distinct, and heulthv nits secreted. The wound afterwards granu- lated kindly ns her hcnlth improved, but had not healed when she left. Feb. 12. Ten dnys after tho operation.