CLUB-FOOT. 180 recommended to use a warm bath, in which twice daily, the foot is to be immersed up to the knee, for about half an hour, and during this time attempts made to bring the foot into its natural position, holding it with one hand, so that the thumb lies upon the back, the forefinger on the inner edge, and the other fingers upon the sole of the foot, and with the other hand placed round the heel, by which the foot, and especially the heel, is turned outwards, the front of the foot raised, and its hind part depressed. I These manipulations must be carried on slowly, and for some time. 'When the foot has been taken out of the bath, and properly dried, lard or goose-fat is to be rubbed on the inner and hinder part of the leg, and on the inner and plantar surface of the foot, and any spiritous fluid should be rubbed on the fore and outer part of the leg and foot. For the purpose of keeping the foot drawn towards its natural direction, a triangular piece of cloth is used, folded to the breadth of two fingers, and about three- quarters of an ell long; it should be placed beneath the calf, carried - around both ankles, from without inwards, over the back, and over the: middle of the inner edge of the foot, under the sole outwards, and, by proper drawing, it bends the foot outwards. This turn being repeated, the tip of the cloth is carried from the outer, obliquely upwards towards 1 the upper edge of the foot, and both then connected by a packer’s knot upon the back of the foot, are carried around the ankle, and tied together (Bruchner’s bandage.) This cloth must be applied once or twice a day ; but, as it nevertheless is easily displaced, strips of sticking plaster may be applied on the same plan, much more efficiently, for the purpose of bringing the foot into place (a). In children born with club-foot, we are restricted for the first two or three months, on account of the delicacy of their skin, to frequent daily manipulation, by which it must be attempted to bring the foot gradually to its place ; and subsequently the mode of treatment proposed is to be employed. Success is frequent in these cases, on acconnt of the slight degree of the evil and the yieldingness of all the parts. A club-footed- patient who has already walked, must from the very onset of the cure be carefully restricted therefrom. Scarpa has recommended a peculiar spring for gradually bending the foot outwards; it is applied on the outside of the foot, and fastened with two straps. Repeated expe- rience has decided me on giving up this practice, and giving preference to the sticking plaster. , [As far as I have had opportunity of observing, little real benefit is derived beyond straightening the foot, whatever bandage or apparatus be used, before the child can be put on his feet, and the weight of his body counteract the unnatural contraction, ot disposition to contract, of the gastrocnemial muscles. I therefore rarely do more thsuW! as Chelius recommends, fix the foot with sticking plaster, and, perhaps, put on a light tin shoe, with a back, to render the bandage more firm, but with little expectation « flexing the foot.—J. F. S.] 1376. When the foot lias been so far managed, that it can be brought with the hand to its proper place, it is best retained there by the so-call»' Scarpa’s second machine (1), which is applied over the stocking worn day and night. The patient may then be permitted, gradually and upon even ground, to stand and walk. After some time, when the foot retains of itself its natural position, the apparatus may be left oft dunngil the day, but still worn at night. It is best to let the patient we®r.*rl laced boot, which should lace to the toes and have a thin steel plate at i * back. ..f|nl O') Scarpa’s machine consists of a shoe, the front of which is made of a thin pa ’ shoe sole, and the back part of a steel plate (a parabolic spring) which encloses (a) Giesk. Sal zb., Medic.-Uhirur. Zeitung, 181-t. vol. iv. p. 75. I