937 AT THE HIP, WITH TWO FLAPS. formed by two vertical cuts on the sides, connected by a transverse cut as in La Faye’s mode of exarticulation at the shoulder. 2756. According to Manec (a), whilst the extremity is drawn outwards and a little bent, a double-edged knife is thrust between the great tro- chanter and front iliac spine from above downwards, and from without invyards, between the neck of the thigh-bone and the muscles, and as the knife is carried close down on the bone, a sufficiently long flap is cut which an assistant raises, and compresses the artery found in it. The operator now passes the knife below the joint, places it on the inner angle of the wound, and divides to the outer angle all the soft parts to - the bone. The capsule of the joint is then opened by a smart cut on its front, the head of the bone projected by abducting the thigh, the round igament divided, and the rest of the capsule completely divided. After the formation of the flap, the joint may be entered in front, and the hind I parts separated by a cut from within outwards. 2757- Ipthe condition of the soft parts only permit an outer flap, when the femoral artery has been either first tied or properly compressed, the knife must be thrust vertically, below the middle of Poupart’s ligament fan< te W1()le mass of soft parts cut through directly inwards. The thicrh is now to be carried well outwards, the capsular ligament opened the [ round ligament divided, the head of the bone pressed out of its socket’ and LLp3^11? the,kf.lfe round. and drawing it down, the flap is formed’. I . have performed the operation in this way upon a living person. * * With two flaps. • 225J' T1',is Tde °f pr0Ceedin° with two flaPs, varies according- as it is performed with an inner and outer (A. Blandin, Larrey Dufuy t/SFKANC’ I°N WaLTHER)’ or with afore and hindflap (Wohler [ ’ eclard, Begin, and Sanson), and according to the formation of tinJ prf°ther and als0 whether by thrusting in the knife, or by carry :lng it from without inwards. ’ J caiIT 2f5?; Blandin ties the femoral artery first, and whilst he tlirnu. e knife into the lower angle of the wound, made for S the arffirv Wsgthe n6 t thiGknfSS 0f the th'gh, he forms an inner flap, afteS the exartlculation"6' " Pr°Ceeds ‘° the di,ision of ll>e <*P™le and JJ6,0' According t0 Barrey, the femoral artery and vein should -fhe Weedln7vexeel7tiedar^Theatln^7*^d','''dd^V ’"creased, the head of the bonedis ocated^’ The fdllCtion is ►bug knife placed behind the head of 1 16 ed^ of the Iar^e a,RPu- ! ehind the great trochanter of ‘he b°ne> 18 n,ow carried close muscles andgskin obliquely ’ ' ThP ^ °"?r flap f<?rmed by cutting the ooiiqueJy. The spouting vessels are compressed by (a) Velpeau, Medecine Operatoire. 1839. Second Edition ; vol. ii. p. 54G. *