OF THE RECTUM. 327 -j « peritonaeum, caught up a portion of small intestine, and having cut into it, fixed the t edges by stitches to the wound in the linea alba. Soon a quantity of meconium passed, d continued to do so on the day following; but on the third day she began to vomit e and frothy mucus, and at 2 p.m. died. On examination, the gut was found adherent , i the wound. The colon was quite empty and contracted to the size of a crow-quill, i t it was continuous with the rectum, and both intestines were quite pervious. The <rer had been prevented passing up the rectum by a sudden turn, at which part it 3 is close bound down to the sacrum. The jejunum and ileum were much distended with ,, cal matter; and on slitting open the latter, the two portions of the ileo-colic valve t;re so nearly adherent, that nothing would pass through, although there was a very * ■ tall aperture.—J. F. S.] t 1614. When the rectum opens into the vagina, a director must, if pos- tie, be introduced through the latter into the anus, thrust down verti- > lly, and, when its position has been ascertained by the forefinger, a draight bistoury or a trochar must be thrust through the closed anal >■§ lerture, towards the groove of the director, and the puncture afterwards ^larged in the manner described. This practice is, however, generally 5uitless, and it is preferable to divide, through the vagina, all the parts ,ck into the rectum, and by the insertion of lint, or, still better, by the ily introduction of the finger, oiled, to prevent the re-union. & In one case, in which this treatment was in vain, as the artificial opening of the rec- m n closed again, whilst the opening of the vagina remained, Barton (a) employed the sallowing method with success. He passed a director through the hole of communica- .1 i<n in the vagina, and divided the whole wall of the vagina to the place where the j ,'tural opening of the rectum should be. He did not use any dressing, but every day (j ssed the finger, smeared with cerate, into the rectum to prevent it closing. The vagina •_us perfect, and the rectum had a direct opening, except that the stools passed involun- rily. Satchell (b) also, and I myself have by this practice obtained like favourable . suits. Velpeau (c) had proposed this operation on the recommendation of Vicq. .s:Aztr. After the division is perfected, a canula should be introduced into the rectum, ot:ed towards the hind angle of the wound, by means of which the aperture must be -reserved, and the divided parts enabled to unite in front. it|Dieffenbach (d) introduced a director much bent inwards, through the vagina into the iierture of the rectum, thrust a pointed bistoury close behind the fossa navicularis into the i foove of the director, and cut out from thence with the point of the knife, at the same ?ine dividing the whole perinceum and widening the aperture of the anus, at a single -•t iroke, to near the coccyx. The rectum was laid bare by the division of the cellular a -sue, stretching forwards to the vagina, and presenting at the bottom of the wound, uje then dissected the edge of the rectum from the wound he had made, divided to the • ;tent of an inch in the direction of the external skin and the muscular wound, and i stened the separated edges of the rectum on each side of the cleft perinceum. The ■ >erture of the rectum in the vagina closed very completely during the after-treatment f occasionally touching it with lunar caustic. On the complete cure of all the wounded irts, three weeks after the first operation, the formation of a new perinceum was tempted. The hind surface of the open end of the rectum was farther separated from ® vagina. The portion of intestine thus set free in the middle, contracted remarkably, id receded about four or five lines. The scar of muscle and skin was removed from ie thus formed interstice, the deeper-lying parts were brought together with a needle- itch, but the edges of the wound with two very short harelip-pins and the twisted ‘ture. The cure was completely successful. 1615. When the rectum opens into the urethra, a sound must be passed y the latter into the bladder, and the unnatural opening in the urethra ivided upon it towards the coccyx, and with some cautious strokes of the nife the aperture in the urethra and the wall of the intestine opposite the ace of the anus divided. If possible, the sound should be brought rough the unnatural opening in the urethra, into the cavity of the °f Medicine and Sureery- (Cl Elemens de Mod. Oper., vol. ii. p. 979. |(6) Ibid. * "* * W Ueber die Verschliessung des Afters; in IIkcker'b Annalen. 1826, Jan. p. 31.