EXTIRPATION OF THE TESTICLE; 812 2499. The removal of the testicle is performed in the following wayJ < The scrotum and neighbourhood of the abdominal ring having been isl cleared of hair, the patient should be placed horizontally on a table ! [*;i The operator standing on his right side, nips up the skin in an oblique fob 11 over the spermatic cord, gives one end of it to an assistant, and himseli i holds the other with the thumb and finger of the left hand. This fold is novla cut into in the course of the cord, and extended upon a director up loward.||* the abdominal ring and down to the bottom of the scrotum. The cell* 3 lular tissue surrounding the spermatic cord is now to be separated by sonn -o< cuts lengthways on the sides, and the cord lifted up, the cellular tissueS beneath it being thus made tense, is cut through with the knife held flat:|®L and as the knife is brought back, the operator passes the forefinger of hi;. > left hand into this opening, thereby stretches the remaining cellular tissue and with his finger separates the cord up to the abdominal ring. Th< testicle being lifted up to lessen the stress upon the spermatic cord, an assistant grasps the cord above where it is to be cut through, and the operator holds it below, passes the knife beneath and divides it at a stroke* i® The arteries are now to be taken up with forceps or with a hook, anti having been cleared, are to be tied. The testicle is to be shelled out o; the scrotum, by which wounding of the urethra and the septum scroti arc: avoided. All the bleeding vessels are to be tied immediately. When the skin of the scrotum is diseased, or firmly adherent to the tumour, it must he included either between two semilunar cuts, or after the cord has been divided, and the arteries tied, the testicle, and the skin covering it, must be removed with the: knife, by which all injury to the septum is avoided. Any other practice for stanching • the bleeding, than tying the vessels, is improper. If the cord escape from the assistant, and retract into the inguinal canal, it must be A E attempted to seize it with the forceps and pull it out, or even the external wall of the " canal must be cut into (1). Aumont (a) cuts through the skin at the hinder part of the scrotum, which is to be j raised and turned to the opposite side, from the bottom of the swelling to the ab- dominal ring. The testicle, which is laid bare by this wound, is then to be dissected up, and the cord bared to the abdominal ring; the testicle is then held by an assistant, and the cord, with forceps, by the operator, who cuts through it, and ties the arteries. The advantage of this is, that a smaller cut is made upon the least feeling part of the scroti"", and that the cord is more easily laid bare to the abdominal ring; hence its division and J the tyiDg of the vessels is more easy, there is less danger of after-bleeding, the escape | of the secretion of the wound is more free, and its union better. [(1) The escape of the cord immediately on its division is a very tiresome, and, t»» young operator, very perplexing accident; to prevent its occurrence, Astley ( ooper used to advise passing a thread through the cord, above the place at which the division was to be made, which gave full power over the upper end of the cord after i division, and the thread was removed after the spermatic vessels were tied. I Pre J* passing a strong tenaculum through the cord, which answers the purpose quite as we , and is more quickly done.—J. F. S.] 2500. If the spermatic cord be degenerated so far towards the a - dominal ring that it cannot be held fast by the assistant, a ligature siiou be passed round, after isolating it, which should be bound to a piece o wood, and there held till the artery have been cleared and lied. Lo t w case alone should the complete li/ing of the whole cord, by many conside as the proper mode of proceeding, be confined. The tie should tlien made as tight as possible, which alone prevents the severe synip on caused by tying nerves. If the degeneration extend so high up on spermatic cord that it cannot be cut through in a healthy part. (n) bulletin do la Socictc d'Emulation de Paris. 1822. April.