729 POLYPS IN THE NOSTRILS. when the seat of the polyp admits the use of remedies to stanch the ? bleeding, which is always to be feared in cutting it off. This practice is also objectionable, inasmuch, as the disease almost always recurs, its roots still remaining. Otherwise, a partial cutting off may be requisite in those f, cases where the cavity in which the polyp is seated is quite filled by it, for the purpose of introducing the instruments necessary to tear it away or ■ cut it off. The extensive experience of Dupuytren, however, proves that considerable bleeding, i after cutting off a polyp, and its recurrence, are not more frequent than after the other it modes of treatment; at least such is the case with polyps of the womb, rectum and | pharynx (Pigne.) 2317. Tying a polyp is specially indicated where it is situated deeply '0 and on an organ which, on account of its yielding, will not allow tearing y away; further, when the polyp has a broad firm base, and also, when 9? severe bleeding is feared, if any other practice be followed. As the polyp I after being tied, swells and enlarges, because, on account of the situation 91: of the arteries in the middle of its root, the circulation is not completely r arrestecI> except in the superficial veins, tying must not be had recourse to p when the polyp is so situated, that the functions of more important organs I are disturbed or destroyed by its swelling; and even considerable bleeding may be caused by this mode of treatment. It must also be observed that E m many cases tying is extremely difficult, and the repeated introduction E “ JJ ins?“‘ rtndered ^cessary. By a gentle graduated drawing ■-toQether of the ligature severe pain may indeed be prevented ; but in v niany instances it requires tightly tying, by which violent pain is pro- 3 f.nd in \ery inflammatory subjects, this is caused even by very ! : ft ,g t6Td ugatU1p- Wh6n’ after a Pol3'P Aas been tied, it begins H o be destroyed, a flow of extremely stinking ichor ensues, which affects I ‘^ neighbouring parts, and is very troublesome to the patient. ’ , destroying a polyp with the actual cautery, is only applicable i "Slv«] y? i T'M" “,e •Iight,ef ‘0Uch’and *e patent has become ,reatly ex austed by the previous bleedings ; when the polyp cannot be .. »t,sfactor,Iy managed in any other way ; and lastly, when it" ™ “a„? n rcrus- fapee<iy t" “^requisite' i" «»• I ' the antrum Highmonanum, other escharotics may also be employed («) A.—OF POLYPS IN THE NOSTRILS. ' ?De Jcssxed, B. et J„ Dissert, ergo ex ligatura Polypi Narium tutior curatio. Paris, Leviet, Observations sur la Cure Radicale rles nliKmi,™ , ' 'orge et du nez, opdres par de nouveaux mtyenf JSs PaSf int k P^Up’ Iifti0 faCUiS at<1Ue tUta Darium curand! Po,yP°s- Vienna;, 1768. C. 209. ’ Edition"1of" 1*783° Pol;ypUS of the Nose ; in his Chirurgieal Works, vol. iii. oL *'• p. 1812? P°lypeS deS Nannesi in his (Euvres Chirurgicales, Baltiia7978trument0rum ad PoIyPorum extirpationem, eorumque K«eysig, Dissert de Polypis Narium. Yitembergm, 1802. I ( ,^CHAMPS’ rra“C deS MaIadies dos Fosses Nasales et de leur sinus. Paris, 1804. j Schmidt, R., Comment, clilmrg. de Polyport.m congestions licrol., 1820. 4to. ; cum lab. xv.