748 SYMPTOMS OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB. 2369. If a polyp form on the neck, or in the neighbourhood of th ( mouth of the womb, it is noticed earlier, as it soon protrudes into th vagina, and does not distend the womb as when rooted in its fundus; i U causes pressure on the bladder and rectum, and rarely bleedings, as it i not constricted by the mouth of the womb; by its weight the womb i pulled and dragged down ; the neck and mouth of the womb often so swellsM that the bound between it and the polyp is completely lost. In conse* n quence of the irritation of the womb kept up by the polyp, scirrhous o steatomatous degenerations may be produced. A polyp arising from the fundus of the womb, when sinking downwards, may becom: $ adherent to the wall of the vagina, and so have two roots; it may, therefore, whei quickly protruding through the external generative organs, evert the womb and th vagina, in consequence of which, according to its seat on the latter, there may b produced a hollow in the rectum, where it corresponds with or on the peritoiueum t where it is attached to the vagina. If the protruded part of the vagina do not differ: ') from the stem of the polyp, it may he tied with it in the operation (a). 2370. The symptoms produced by the development and further pro- ; gress of polyps, may give rise to their being mistaken for pregnancy, ever- sion, and prolapse of the womb, fungous growths, and scirrhous dege-. 1 iterations. 2371. As long as the polyp remains in the cavity of the womb it may < be mistaken for pregnancy; the diagnosis, however, rests on the following j circumstances. In pregnancy the vaginal portion of the womb is only gradually distended ; it is elastic and feels soft, the mouth of the wontb remains closed, and opens only during labour. With polyp the internal mouth of the womb opens without true pains, and remains oftentimes long open, without the vaginal portion being so regularly expanded, without beino- soft and thin, and without the lips of the womb-mouth so com- pletely disappearing. The mouth of the wontb with the polyp is harder, - in pregnancy softer. The menstrual discharge is rarely suppressed wi. polyp, but irregular, more frequent, and not rarely painful; the b 00 L paler, watery, mingled with fibrous parts; and there is, in addition to e. discharge, a mucous ill-smelling fluid, like water in which flesh ins beOTii washed. In pregnancy menstruation occurs only in rare cases, imt is regular, as concerns its coming on and character. The general sJnlP occurring at the beginning of pregnancy diminish and entirely disapi in its progress; but with polyp, on the contrary, theyr increase. . enlargement of the belly in pregnancy is greater and more regu ar, with polyp is more unequal, does not attain the size of pregnancy, depends on the growth of the polyp. The enlargement of the reas __ j not so gradual with polyp of the womb as in pregnancy; they are so ' times full, sometimes flabby, and never so large. To conclude, tlie 71 tinuance of pregnancy is definite, and, at a certain time, the nioveii of the child are perceptible. In mole-pregnancy, the distension o belly and the alteration of the vaginal part of the womb, which s“ and softens, takes place more quickly; the mouth of the womb n closed till the mole is protruded, which happens suddenly and nor g ally; there, also, is not the discharge as with polyp. intruded 2372. As to the mode of distinguishing a polyp which has j ^ through the mouth of the womb from eversion of that organ, i ^ observed that in incomplete eversion, the swelling passing tl B (a) IlKUAKD, (Tlii-se,) Observation* relatives aux l’olypcs de l’Utcrus et a quelques-unes dc des Organes Genito-Urinaires. 1 aris.