550 STONE IN THE BLADDER; hinder or prevent the discharge of urine ; it may, by irritating the open j ings of the spermatic ducts, produce painful priapism and swelling of th( testicles. A stone frequently causes no inconvenience if it be fixed aid* any one part of the bladder, and the pain only comes on when, by any movement or exertion, it is brought into another place. If a large stone be constantly at the bottom of the bladder, it may cause ulceration of it. 1 and also of the corresponding wall of the rectum, and in this way be dis- • charged. The same also may happen in women by ulceration of the wal of the vagina. Instances have, however, occurred in which even larg«. sj stones lying loose in the bladder have been borne for many years without l; having produced any particular inconvenience. Each several kind of stone has its own peculiar symptoms (Prout.) With uric aci<h;l stones they are generally less severe than with other kinds ; the urine is natural, bu 4 a little darker in colour; its specific gravity is greater than usual; on cooling, i : leaves a crystalline sediment mixed with mucus, which increases on any accidental j irritation; the urine, at first turbid, becomes clear by standing. With oxalate o .1 lime stones the symptoms are very violent, (I have, however, several times noticec: J the reverse,) and the urine is clear, and deposits neither uric acid nor phosphates*!* Stones composed of phosphates produce the most severe symptoms; the urine in thii® case is quite characteristically curdy, turbid, specifically light, deposits much phos q phate and mucus, sometimes is alkaline, putrid, stinking, and secreted in large quantity ;! and the constitution generally suffers considerably. 2023. The above-mentioned symptoms lead to the supposition rnereHj of the presence of a stone in the bladder ; a certain knowledge of it cat 1 only be obtained by examination with a sound, by the distinct feel of i >: hard resistance, and by the metallic tinkling. Examination (searchingtrj as it was formerly, and sounding, as it is now generally called) even, catqfl in many cases give only a doubtful result, or none at all; ^for^ instancetl with a very small stone, such as are for the most part or completely coverer by the inner membrane of the bladder, or by a false membrane, or ar*. enclosed in a diverticulum, of the bladder. As it depends on the sizea® nature, and position of the stone, whether it be touched by the beak o f the sound more readily or with difficulty, so, in making the examinail tion, the bladder must be gently felt all round, and the patient sounder with his bladder full and empty, and in different postures. _ Exaiuinatioi by introducing the finger into the rectum at the same time, may main easy the finding of the stone; and a large stone which lies in the botton of the bladder may often be distinctly felt by the finger in this way. Klein (a) observes that silver sounds, in very sensitive persons, often exci j siderable pain and contraction of the bladder, which interferes with the exami - of the stone ; whilst the iron sound, or even an elastic catheter, causes neither pa ^ contraction, and easily finds the stone. . k, , f(l) BRODiEsays:—“ In some cases a calculus which has not been aiscovereu s means of the sound is at once detected by means of the elastic gum catheter. 1 observation made by Sir Everard Home, the correctness of which I have had treq opportunity of verifying. The gum catheter should be introduced without tm. > stUette, while the patient is standing, with his bladder full of urine. You all j urine to How through the catheter, and, as the last portion of it comes away, the falls down on the extremity of the instrument, in withdrawing which you reel H ^u'may be^ well to^observe, that if the patient’s symptoms continue it will be righ <| sound him again and again at proper intervals, as the stone may increase m alter its position, so that at last, after repeated fruitless attempts during many it may be detected. This I have known in more than one or two instanccs. j cases however, though a stone really exists, it cannot be found by the most (a) Praluiache Ansichten dcr bcileutcmlsten Chirurgisclien Operationen, part iii. P-^-