1007 RESECTION OF THE FIBULA. In a case of necrosis of the fifth rib, of which Roux (a) removed with the chain saw, four inches, a collection of matter was found between it and the pleura, not, however communicating with the cavity of the chest. Within a few days, respiration became oppressed. He was attacked with symptoms of pleuritis on the right side, and died. On examination, the right cavity of the chest was found to contain a considerable quantity or purulent serum, with albuminous flakes of recent formation. The lungs were filled with softened tubercles as might be expected, the patient having been much emaciated, and coughed much, with copious expectoration, previous to the operation.] V.—Kesection of the Fibula. [2855*. Resection, or Extraction of the Fibula, was proposed by De- sault, but has been, however, only recently performed by Seutin (f). He detached the muscles from the bone, then applied the crown of a trephine below its head, slipped a narrow ribbon between the bone and the muscles on its inner side, down to the outer malleolus, and cut it off with a curved saw. Malgaigne removed the upper third of the fibula and exarticulated it; but care was necessary to avoid injuring the anterior tibial nerve as it passed round the neck of the bone.] ' nno'! account of the several resections in the contiguity and contmuity of the bones, it may be easily determined which mode of prac- tice shall be pursued in the partial resection of some bones, to wit the radius, ulna, tibia, fibula, metacarpus and metatarsus, and so on’- as also in the entire extirpation of single bones. ’ For a careful collection of the cases hereto belonging, see Jaeger, Handworterbuch der Chirurgie, Article Resectio ossium, vol. v. Kreitmair, Darstellung des Ergebnisses der im konigl Julius Snitale w burg seit 1821 angestellten Resectionen. Wiirzb., 1839. P ta e U Wurz" Schirlinger, Beitrag zur Casuistik der Resectionen. Wiirzb., 1841. Postscript. [The year 1846 seems in a fair way to be known as the Annus Mirabilis of Surm™ The profession and the public in both hemispheres are in a luIIpZ Surgery, quent on the discovery by Morton, an American dentist of a i c ' ra<rriti. c°nse- sensibility, during which an operation may be borne without pain nay6'even' ivndp-^ agreeable as to induce a desire for its renetition Thic cnf rendered so in inhaling the vapour of ether till tKiSn'i, agal?st P^n, consists operations. He, therefore, on / rSI? , 1 m niore s?rious Surgical ethereal influence, made “ an incision near kp tLp^-1^ PfUt a pati?nt under the During the operation the patient muttered as n , I JaW °f S0II,e 1,lches in extent, stated that the pain was considerable thoughmiriSi'■C0.nsc'?us state> and afterwards the skin had been scratched with a hoe Th "' t g‘Ued > ln }lls .own words, as though defect i„ the proce„„f i„halali„„,f„;”n teftltariS‘',iS to another patient with complete success A f-ittv *c P?Vr was administered ntoved h, Dr. theS (a) Journal ...i .. ... !5Ul. * “G vii- p‘ 290- A^mtiZNKimdec>ne 0piraloite- p- 24°- VOI xvUrS m7:,0Ur"al ; Cited in Medical 'limes