843 RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. J, ** me ill: furtlier treatment, in reference to dressing and improving the form of the nose, managed according to the Indian method. ^N?D1CT has sPecially endeavoured to further the preference of the German method by his successful practice, and has proposed an alteration of the binding appa- ratus, by which it is rendered easier to change the dressings; he puts plugs into the apertures of the nostrils. * 6 According to Gai/enzowski, the septum should be formed immediately after the separation of the flap from the arm, and fixed at once. . 2551. In the Italian Method of Rhinoplasty, the piece for the flap is marked upon the corresponding part of the arm, which, on account of its shrivelling up afterwards, should always be six inches long and four broad Instead of the trellis forceps used by Tagliacozzi, it is better, according to Geaefe, first to make the two side cuts with a scalpel, and then divide the skin from the underlying cellular tissue, with a very blunt director, a gum fleam, or even with the finger, from one side cut to the other. A piece of linen spread with rose ointment is then to be drawn by a thread fastened to its side, under the flap; the side cuts are covered with lint spread with rose ointment, with a compress, and the whole fastened with a circular bandage. This dressing is to be first removed ter three or four days, but a fresh piece of linen is to be previously introduced beneath the flap, if suppuration be properly established. In !s way, wit 1 proper modifications, according to the condition of the S° °n’, the case is to be proceeded with, and then the i- a.°n e PaP’ the uPPer end of the side cuts, must be made upon a lntroduced for the purpose. The flap should not, according to s.mnrl l bi? turned bac„k as recommended by Tagliacozzi, but merely dresCl td-ibyi C,harpie and oiIed P^teboard; and afterwards dressed with lead wash or decoction of elm bark. The flap always shrivels ± gaias.in thickness proportionally; and towards the sixth or eighth s°metimes stlb later, though according to Tagmacozzi, in a Ztlh r;meS tCOmpleteIy ?xecb The mode of the flap, and the turther treatment, corresponds with that of the German method. OF RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. : ancUhe'snIhenithe ^ &nd cartiIages of the nose have been destroyed, Iremnino fT, remain’ though sunken, according to Dieffenbachthe fe «rbedissected,in<•■»»»i,«s l mm be stodMyhvfn ,«• ? ,S ra,sed up: The he»'1 °f ‘he patient l left nostril ,r,,i ,|' ‘ss,st‘ult. a narrow pointed scalpel passed into tile 3 rife and the soft parts divided with a stroke in the side of the iand tip of the old nc ■< ’ • • iat there is a strip of skin from the ridge uarro^r above° nnr? emi ren?ainin£ between the two side cuts, becoming '-■below by the shrivelled"^ / W! V16 skin ob t,ie forehead, and attached the flap can be railed , ?‘e ,"Pper lip>. If this be destroyed, fjjsned by a cut on eiti septum be shortened, it may be easily length- wines below the end of'tT e downvvards through the upper lip. Some i cion of the rio-ht * ■ ,16. ,rst cut> tbe huife must be thrust, at the junc- >)■‘through the whole of tl """r 4 16 cbee.k> down to the bone, and carried "door of the nose tern i "t ^ obbcluely down to the line where the ! (o) Beitriec . 68 00 the skin of the cheeks. The same cut is V vitli four plates™ 'r tthrungen fiber die Kliinoplastik nacli dor deutschcn Mothode. Breslau, 1328 .