731 THEIR CAUSES AND PROGNOSIS. si and is not painful when touched ; when occasionally it increases and then !« diminishes in size ; when, excepting at its root, it does not adhere to any i other part of the nostril; and when it is movable in sniffing, and secretes mucus. 2322. The causes of nasal polyps are in many instances doubtful. They * nay sometimes be produced by mechanical injury, poking the nose with a.: die fingers, and other things ; but, for the most part, the nasal polyps are io situated that these causes can have no influence. In general, a catarrhal inflection of the mucous membrane of the nostril, a continued blennorrhcea os the origin of these polyps. . In many cases, the polyp is causally con- ■wected with a general dyscrasic affection, as syphilis, suppressed natural discharges, and the like, which seems to be proved by the frequent pro- 0 luchon, at the same time and in the same nostril, of several polyps bv ! iheir frequent recurrence after removal, and by the accompanying- symp- toms of general ailment. The disposition to form polyps often seems connected with the natural develojiment of the body, as they frequently • ccurat the period of puberty, or this unnatural formative activity is at .^ favoured by the loosening up of the mucous membrane; and truly 1 j e healthiest persons, who about puberty are subject to frequent bleedino- ™ th? nos.tnIs are commonly affected with nasal polyps. & ftj"® *?urstlng sunder and diseased changes of the nose-bones are not hajs simply the result of their mechanical separation by the polyp but the *sease ^e soft parts and of the bones, is co exSent r' hdpnb^h drpend 0n 0n<; and the same cause; which is especially the case dien the disease is produced and kept up by a dyscrasy (a). } ;od when the n -d Pr?®?ur? tlle nostrils, by spontaneous bleeding from the nose • : uisl red co oSyPthSe VIS,ble’ * redder’ and theace towards its rootf frequentlyofS f mh rapW 1 'he “”“S 'S e™,er’ th‘ bl“di"S ■>» touch?.* S the 1 ]fj„ , prT°t of .nasal Poln» depends on their nature seat t t'gin, and complication with other diseases The mi,™, i ’ : eng their growtli their 7 7Lm t0 afsume cl"‘ cancerous ciiaracter i bp is LnecTeifZlltiZu^ZTZ!° ^ Wtal "» l,Per treatment nr nthJ? «erai aisease, the fatter must be first met by j|P wiH more certainly recur* ^ & performance of the operation, the I 24' but if early discovered, (0 Nosogrnpluo Cliirurgicale, vol.’iv. p. 324. 1821. Fifth Edition. ,