959 WITH CIRCULAR, AND WITH OVAL CUT. left arm the middle of the upper-arm with the left hand, brings it about four or five fingers breadth away from the trunk, and thrusts a pointed knife, immediately below the acromion, up to the head of the humerus. The edge of the knife is now sunk deeply, carried downwards and inwards and thus the first cut is completed, which stretches down four fino-ers’ breadth from the acromion, and upon the bone divides the hind third of the deltoid muscle and the greater part of the fibres of the lon°- head of the 7«. triceps. The operator now places the knife, with its point down- wards, on the inside of the arm, and beginning the second cut upon the other side of the m. triceps, at the same height as the end of the first cut cames it inwards and upwards to the acromion where it meets with the former. In order to lay bare the joint better, that part of the deltoid muscle attached to the humerus may be a little separated, and the edges of the wound drawn apart by an assistant. The upper-arm is now to&be moved about in different directions, and the tendons and capsular lio-a ment, being divided together, the head of the bone is lifted1 out of the j nt, and the arm being pressed towards the body, the whole knife is carried round it close to the bone, the humeral arteJy compressed in the cutThrough! aSS1Stant’ and the stlH undivided Parts> containing the vessels, When the right arm is operated on, the first cut must be made from operationVthlram°emt “P ‘° ^ b“*’ in 0ther ‘he ; {^S^SKT* “d s y- ",h so as to fc™ ‘ Blasics s oblique cut may also here be mentioned. urtlrnUfAS !’,eSai'ds tIie cll01ce of tIie above-mentioned methods for ex articulating the upper-arm-bone, the following circumstances must hi |attended to. It must here be considered, as in every other exStin tin whether Tf7 tllG S(ift PartS are injured’ whether the bone be broken and nether the arm be more or less movable The methnrl nt* ’,and must be directed by these circumstances, and the fo^maul LT^1 •undertaken in such way as the condition of the soft parts allows and 10 on. is contradictor! a*< wpII k,r . e escaPe the pus, and nd is no reason for preferring ? „ ^ °'vn experience as by that of others, lap. o ie vertical wound with an outer and inner |< •<!’8 "Kl opmUoM he joint are often ,wnll ’ i • 1 ,in& Persons where the parts about movable, and the head Jflh?™118 Y ‘^T*’ the arm littIe or at ’ unu me head of the upper-arm-bone firmly drawn into the (n) Journal do Mcdecine, vol. xevi. p. 102.1S2G.