27 REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. upon a thick layer of wool by means of a fitting truss, or a neckerchief fastened upon the hip, is always requisite, especially in children and restless patients, and in large ruptures which are with difficulty kept up. The threads may be removed from the sixth to the ninth day, and a truss must be worn for a shorter or longer time afterwards. 1159. Belmas (a) attempts to effect merely adhesive inflammation, by introducing goldbeater’s-skin into the hernial sac, which he at first passed in, as an empty, dry bladder, by an incision through the sac, and then inflated it; butof late he has pursued thefollowing plan:—After the rupture is completely returned, the sac and its coverings are to be raised with the fingers of the left hand in one fold, in front of and parallel with the sper- matic cord, and through its middle, above the abdominal ring, a trocar- like instrument, divisible in the middle, is to be thrust. The operator now allows the hernial sac to slip from between his fingers, so that the fold is formed by the skin alone. An assistant holds this fold, and whilst the hernial sac is fixed by the thumb and forefinger, applied above and below the instrument, the latter is to be thrust forward till the union of the two canals corresponds to the interspace between the walls of the hernial sac. By the peculiar mechanism of the instrument the two canulas, after the removal of the trocar-points, are drawn asunder, and both walls of the hernial sac separated. The assistant lets go the fold of skin, grasps the canula corresponding to the trocar-point, whilst the operator holds the other canula, and through its aperture introduces with a probe four or five thin cylinders of jelly covered with goldbeater’s-skin, in various directions, into the neck of the hernial sac. The canulas are then removed, and a truss is put on, the pad of which acts where the cylinders of jelly are placed and is to be worn at least for four months, constantly. The patient may after the operation follow his business. The cylinders of jelly are soon absorbed. The goldbeater’s-skin resists absorption longer) and excites slowly in the hernial sac an adhesive inflammation, which is confined to the parts in immediate connexion with the foreign bodies. UD3r,?;0Tp t0 Tif auimal fluid’ thePatient?s bl00d> the hernial sac. Upon the Radical Cure of Rupture, compare also an, Dissert, de novo hernias inguinales curandi methodo. Berol., 1813 PEcroT™’ DlSS' de hemiiS mobilibus radicitus sanandis. Landishut,’ 1819. -25 SSsrsi233sar^SEi^ssp,*o! est de cnr*he™*- Hesselbach, A. K Die Lehre von den Eingeweidebriichen, vol. ii. p. 214. These de co’ncours pYaS^ S.TS if*" des Heraies i runhn-o 4rhe decifon a.s t0 the performance of the radical cure for reducible St bVISt ? °fni,the-different m0deS °f treatment ^ Pai'^eular) vorv ?,U1C.ed by the following circumstances. In consequence of the ^ “"Str"Ct.i0" °f trUSSeS0f 7—X neceLt Quite anothm o • ! operation is, in comparison with former times, its proper place"and^ *herebJ ev<jry r<;ducible rupture can be retained in truss All the m "l f ^ be effected the P™Per wearing of a especially chuteririnff8 °t .°peratl°n mentioned are more or less dangerous, l) Rechlhes! g’ y g,and Stltch,no UP the hernial sac, and the ^Veu«MamiTaii0n*^dCT fcs^MvItrs l/rff-h.'als MiUel -/.nr radicalen Heilung <ler l'ari. 9, “a"’ 1829—Clinique*desliopitaux do knn I ’ 1.nJoufnal filr Chlrurgie und Angenheil- pt - * ‘**—4