893 USE OF THE SAW. /\ shaped angle to the wound, and two-thirds or the whole of the diameter of the limb lower, a projecting V shaped lip to the wound, which in closing the wound, drops into each corner, but can never be brought directly opposite. 2693. When the muscles have been tints divided down to the bone, they are held back by an assistant with a cleft cloth (1), at the edge of which the muscular fibres connected with and also projecting from the bone, and the periosteum, are divided with a circular cut. The left thumb-nail is now placed close to the face of the stump, for the purpose of guiding the saw, which at first and towards the last, when the bone is nearly sawn through, must be moved more slowly, and with shorter strokes (2). Whilst the sawing is in progress, the assistant who holds the limb must not move it either up or down, because in the former case he fixes the saw, and in the latter, breaks the bone. If any bony points remain, they must be cut off with the bone-nippers, or removed with a file or a fine saw. The cleft cloth to keep the muscles back, is better than the retractors of Bell and Klein. Scraping off the periosteum is superfluous. Walther and Br'cjnninghausen divide the periosteum by a circular cut about half an inch below where the bone is to be sawn through, and turn it up, so that after the sawing, the end of the bone may be covered by it. They imagine that it promotes union! 3 The saw commonly in use is the bone-saw, or Pott’s plate-saw. [(0 I do not think there is any great advantage gained by using the cleft cloth, and ry rarely employ it; as, by passing the thumb and forefinger on either side of the bone or bones, and pressing the palm of the hand and ball of the thumb against the surface of the stump, the soft parts can be pressed well back, and out of the way of the Sa7^WTh.'Chnh0U vbe applJed as closely as possible, to the cut ends of the muscles. , wl11 n°l J36 superfluous to say a few words about the use of the saw, which is weUa,eQ W0,'fTX surfPcal instruments. A good saw should have its teeth .and ' i? ’, , i carpenter s expression is, that it may neither clog nor hang in its track • ■ and it should have, proportionally to its size, a heavy back, which renders its steadying more easy, and affords all the weight the saw requires to be loaded with Tlie^ too ^frequent mode of using the saw, is to drop its end, whilst the handle is raised so that * when moved it works obliquely ; the operator, at the same time, throwingas much o£ 0 his own weight as he can conveniently spare upon the handle, as if with the inten 0 t on of forcing the blade of the saw at one or two strokes through the bone and then n ,driving it downwards and upwards, as violently and quickly as he can, and often usinn ■« cons1 as mUC-h °L the, t00thcd edee as a young violinist does of his fiddle-bow The E " i,iUenct‘, the saw works badly, is continually jumping out of its track makes KST' and firhmS by splintcrme the bone’ and often cutting through it below where ^ «oTk .(1P LrP°S ; 7° USG • SaW properly- ft should always, where possible, be held and ■T°rieJ horizontally, moving it forwards and backwards without any pressure of the "'!’bu a,ll0W,n? n,ere]y.Its own weight to keep it on the appointed pkce and as it atis moved forwards, even its own weight should be lessened 1™ ’ aD<1 5S 11 ^instead of pressing down the saw. After drawing the toothed e’dmfflrsf 1 'l supp°rtlng> fcrlgMh^thigS or ^nlbone,* more quickly and^ore ^cleanly l'™ wi" of“,lin,c™e "i“p“g”rZ 1 Kwh«l“^ T7 7eitically is WeferMe to horizontally; “ for HtetuS^bV'i"5 4hon“Sd"e<1pJS! I“ U“b 1™* bely Ih/pSnSe ,he '™r P*r‘ of (a) Elements of Surgery,