471 THE CHEST; PERCUSSION, AUSCULTATION. jfa 3uid has increased or diminished. If percussion at one spot constantly give sonorous I ;ouud, around which, according to the different posture of the patient, a sonorous and lull sound can be produced, it may be concluded that there is an adhesion of the lung i lt this Spot. Percussion is able to decide with accuracy the pressure which the sur- winding parts suffer by the fluid. Sometimes, after the fluid has diminished, a dull ■ ;0und is'observed opposite the lower part of the cavity of the chest, which depends on the false membrane that has formed there, or has been separated from the parts bove. It is not ever easy to distinguish between an effusion into the pleura, from one s. uto the pericardium. An effusion into the pleura cannot extend towards the front of u. he heart without arising behind nearly to the spine of the blade-bone; if, therefore, if! here be dull sound in the region of the heart without a rising of the fluid up to the $ ,oiut stated, it must be concluded that there is effusion into the pericardium. Auscultation affords different results according to the variety of the circumstances. ir n slight effusion the respiratory murmur may be distinguished, but it is weaker, and s eems at a distance from the walls of the chest; if the effusion increase, the respiratory Hi aurrnur ceases completely. In collections of fluid at the depending part of the chest, t there the upper part is free, the respiratory murmur may be felt below, and is per- il, eived above. If the patient’s position be so altered that the lower becomes the upper Bjtart, the respiratory murmur is heard on the former, where it was not heard, and it is Xu o longer perceived where it previously had been. This stethoscopic sign is of jpihe greatest importance. Laennec considers segophony as the pathognomic sign of ii leuritic effusion ; but this sign is of no actual value, and by segophony alone the ope- ;> ation of paracentesis must not be decided. If segophony point this out, it can only be s (,'howu at one part of the chest in a certain extent, and in a sharp change in the patient’s i ; oice; in other respects it consists in a strong resonance of the voice, which is trem- u ling and broken, but is not so distinctly transmitted to the ear as pectoriloquy. iEgo- Ythony, like the respiratory murmur, ceases in great collection, and in changes of its seat, riAccording to the different posture which the patient may be placed in. The height of effusion bounds the space above where it can be heard, above which the voice has tijs natural sound. This line of demarcation determines the addition to, and diminu- , i on of, the effusion. Coughing presents an analogous change in the voice : sometimes ariie voice is perceived at a distance with a peculiar change, to which has been given the j ame vox senilis, (e'gophonie a distance) ; but this sound may exist without effusion, it ®jin therefore afford only a conjecture. ; 1893. Notwithstanding all these aids which can be brought to the close r etermination of the state of the cavity of the chest, it is not ever easy to distinguish pleuritic effusion with certainty. Inspection and mensuration i ave no actual value. In healthy persons, the one side of the chest, imperially the right, is frequently more strongly developed than the other, ysvery circumstance by which the activity of the lung is restricted, favours i i ie diminution of the size of the chest ; the other cavity of the chest, in sproportion as the lung becomes more active than the other, acquires greater size. According to Stokes’s observation, the increase of the * liest on the left side, as a sign of empyema, is of more value ; upon the ght side it is only of consequence when it exceeds half an inch. In per respects, the quantity of effusion cannot be determined by inspection : !fd mensuration, as with a trifling distension of the ribs there may be '^nsiderable thrusting back of the diaphragm and mediastinum. ‘The '’f-riiDle dashing of the fluid, when the patient is held and shaken by the d boulders, is only perceptible when the cavity of the chest at the same time Ipntams air; it therefore often affords no sign except being very distress- B'g to, t*.ie P.atient, and the audible dashing must be distinguished from that Ijisembling it, which can be produced by fluid in the stomach. I have, in •j-ie instance, fully distinguished the two kinds of dashing from each other. || e setlslble fluctuation is, according to Tarrall, perceptible only in a ; "al1 'lumber of cases, in very thin persons, and if the pleura be distended if a ar^e quantity of fluid. The immobility of the chest may depend on I j ny ot ier circumstances. The vibratory movement does not, according