PROLAPSE WITH INVERSION 118 in situ, or is itself inverted, with part of the vagina. A further stage remains, in which the uterine inversion is total, and prolapses externally, bringing with it the vagina, also inverted, (p. 331.) If the polypus be attached to any part of the fundus, at the . terminating opening of either of the Fallopian tubes, or in the interspace between those >- openings, it may determine a partial and limited inversion, whilst still remaining . wholly or chiefly within the uterus. The symptoms are the same as a polypus pro- 1; duces, without inversion, and cannot be considered characteristic, although generally more severe, such as uneasiness in the uterine region, forcing pains, leucorrlieea, and menorrhagia.” (p. 324.) (3) “ In addition to what has been already stated, we may,” says Crosse, “ enume- q rate coagulated blood accumulated in the uterus, and an hydatidous growth, or mole, . occupying its cavity, each of which has been known to cause uterine inversion.” (p. 338.) Of the majority of the cases referred to the former cause, Crosse has consider- • able doubt. “ Some,’’ he says, “ are unsatisfactory, others evidently stated in error, - the epoch of the inversion having manifested itself to the unsuspecting or uninstructed4 observer, (perhaps some seven or ten days after delivery,) not being the commencement H of the displacement, which was coincident with the termination of' the labour. With Ij more correctness may we regard distension of the uterus from blood as a cause of the relapse of inversion.” (p. 339.) As to the cases uncomplicated with pregnancy, “ where blood was the primary cause of enlargement of the uterine cavity,” he says, - “ I cannot quote any so objectionable as the case related by Mr. Watkinsok (a), in which a woman of fifty years of age had inversion take place under protracted and very severe menorrhagia, in which, as Watkinson supposed, in a relaxed state of the os uteri, and perhaps of the uterus itself, owing to protracted haemorrhage, the organ a became inverted on the expulsion of coagula. At the expiration of four or five years- the inverted womb hung half way down towards the knees, with a neck formed by the inverted vagina, about the size of one’s wrist. The patient was reduced to imminent danger of life by sloughing and abscess, when the uterus was removed by incision below • a ligature placed on the vagina with a fatal result. Of inversion following the ex pul-, sion of hydatidous masses, he mentions the case recited by Dr. Thatcher, of Edin-r burgh, in his lectures, in which the woman acknowledged that she had pulled away s protruding mass, which consisted of an immense accumulation of hydatids, firmly! cemented by nearly cartilaginous bands, and had thus produced the same result as from': 1 injudiciously pulling the umbilical cord for the extraction of the placenta after deli-; i very. There was “ every diagnostic mark of the inverted uterus, with the os uteri clear, and defined, surrounding its upper base.” Attempts to return it were fruitless, and “ at midnight the uterus was close down on the os externum. Next morning it was found fully protruded at the vulva, in shape and size like the largest caoutchouc bottler > for injection.” It could not be returned, and therefore, on the third day “ a ligature of silver wire was applied close to the os uteri, with the double canula as for polypus. The ordinary means for supporting strength and preserving cleanliness were used. On the third day from the application of the ligature separation was nearly effected, and Art I slightly remanent portion was divided with the scalpel.” (p. 340-42.)] 1286. The quick-formed inversion of the womb is commonly accom- panied with severe pain, bleeding, inflammation, and swelling of the prolapsed part, and if it be complete, with sickness, fainting (1), convul- i sions, depressed powers, small and scarcely distinguishable pulse, and with danger of mortification and death ; in a complete inversion, however, all the symptoms may be absent (Hachmann.) The slowly forming inversiot of the womb prevents the discharge of the urine and stools, causes irregullfi j menstruation, bleeding, inflammation of the womb and neighbouring i>arts pain in the belly, hsemorrhoidal inconveniences, whites, hardening, exco- riation and ulcers of the womb (2), bad nourishment, dropsical swelling** d' hectic fever, and so on. (Yl) Upon these symptoms Daii.liez (6) makes the following interesting observe I t-10n A loop of intestine may follow the fundus of the womb, insinuate itself »n” j cavity, of which the entrance is at first very large, become strangulated, as lias nee observed after bursting of the womb, and give rise to new symptoms, which ww I (a) London Medicnland Physical Journal, vol. vii p. 435. (*>) These.