OF THE METACARPAL JOINTS, ETC. 985 : 2840. After decapitation of the splint-bone the wound is to be lightly- filled with oiled lint, the flaps fastened with some sticking plaster, the wound covered with lint, and the foot laid upon its outside with the knee half-bent,, upon a chaff pillow covered with lint and compresses, and the usual dressings. After decapitation of both bones, their ends must be brought near to the heel, the longitudinal and transverse wounds brought together with su- tures, the angle of the wound left open for the escape of the discharge, the wound covered with lint, and a bandage applied in the usual way. ° According to Moreau and Boyer, during the treatment the foot should be steadied by a foot-board attached to two side splints on the le«-, to keep it immovable. This Jaeger thinks only of consequence if the shin-bone be left In his case he dislocated both bones on the outside and placed them in Sharp’s concave splints on Sauter’s swing, till he applied the common splints. During the cure the ends of the bones approach each other, and become firmly- united; in consequence of which, in many cases, when the astragalus is left entire motion is destroyed. This firm connexion is only first produced in the space of a year, from the use of the limb. J . AfteJ the healing of the wound Sharp’s splints must be applied. So long as the foot is not firm the patient must walk with a crutch, till at last he can be fitted with a heel corresponding with the length of the lost bone (Jaeger.) VII.—OF EXCISION OF THE JOINTS OF THE METACARPUS AND METATARSUS. (Eiemo Meiacarpi et Metatarsi, Lat.; Ausrottung in clen Gelenlten der Mittelhand- und Mittelfussknochen, Germ.; Resection des Me'tar.arpiens et des Metatarsiens, Fr.) 2841. In the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, decapitation lias the great advantage of preserving the joint. The decapitation of the meta- carpal and metatarsal hones is performed with a longitudinal cut carried to the.extent of the portion of bone to be removed, the sheath of the tendon covering it opened, laid aside, the muscles separated from the sides of the bone, and the joint opened from above. The chain saw is then introduced by means of a small semicircular needle, or a narrow finger-saw is passed beneath the bone which it. divides, or it is cut off with Liston’s cutting torceps, or with the osteotome, lifted up, and whilst turned forwards or backwards, is completely separated from the soft parts. After the wound has been cleansed, a connecting bandage is put on and cold applications made To keep the bone in proper position, it is necessary to fasten a narrow pad, a foot long, on both sides, or upon the dorsal and plantar surface of the foremost phalanx with sticking plaster, and by draw mg back equally the ends of the long pad the bones are kept ogether and the ends of the pad are fastened upon the wrist or ankle- Snsof „laSrr‘ °n the f0i0t’ Wit,h a foot-board> a Pad of lint and some straps of p aster are commonly used, passed over the end of the phalanx and the ends brought over and fastened on the foot. ^ ’ cated a.^d fren^ntTnf fhe “eta?RrPal bone of tbe thumb, decapitation is often indi- from («). ’ *RICKE has obtained most successful results there- in) Gkknet, Ueber Resectionen ; in Hamburg. Zeitscli., vol. iii. part iv.