PHRENIC RUPTURE. 92 in which there is thickening, enlargement, and so on, has great resem- blance to such adherent rupture. Rectal rupture may inflame ; there may > be even strangulation, by the contraction of the sphincter muscle. consists in the return of the rupture, and when . this is done in preventing its reprolapse, as will be mentioned in spea mg . of the rectal prolapse. If the replacement be impossible, the case must bei treated as a prolapse of the rectum. X.—OF PHRENIC RUPTURE. C.Hernia phrenica, Lat.; Zwerchfellbruch, Germ.; Hernia diaphragmatique, Fr.) rProtrusions through the diaphragm occur in different ways. First Through the natural apertures by which the aorta, vena cavau | inferior oesophagus and intercostal nerves pass. These are very rare, and* Astley Coon;a says he has never seen an instance. Morgagni mentions - < one in which the omentum, the duodenum, and jejunum, with part o he J ileum ascended by the side of the oesophagus, and compressed the heart andjl lunS into a very small compass (a) ; also another, in which part of he colon a large portion of the omentum and the pancreas passed .throdgb colon, & ia■ & 1 , Fantoni also mentions a case, in which the f stomach and part of the omentum had entered the chest by the side of theJ Second From malformation of the diaphragm, which is more frequentJ and is'more common on the left than on the right side, and in the musc4H thlTthe tendinous portion of the muscle (1). Macaueay mention^ one case in which the stomach and greatest part of ^pancreas had pasffl into the cavity of the left pleura ; and another, in which he whole liver ad entered the right pleura (c). If the protrusion and the aperture b* d l i p the child dies soon after birth. But if the aperture be sinffl the patient may live for some years , and in the case mentioned by Astlev « Cooper (d) the following symptoms were observed. Oppression m biea* |j Cooper gej J ^creased in years the least hurry in exercise, ! ^exertion of strength, produced pain in the left side, a frequent eoughM 1 lAnrinm re-miration After great exertion an attack of pain h 1 rtf™ part of the abdomen, with vomiting, anti a sensation of someflM dragging; to the right side, and always referred to the stomach. 1 lm d , S® J thp£.p symptoms was as sudden as their accession ; after suffering J. sation of these ^ pain and sickness ceased. These symptom 77 i have passe S together with a considerable portion oi omen are unprovided with an, hernial sae . /LAnTXmboth seeming to terminate at the margin of th fTTZ™ however; relates a case, in which there was a sac cons,** ,° T than a tennis-ball in the right side of the chest, consisting of ably huge united, with its orifice at a small distance from tl Srside of the ensiform cartilage, where there appeared a deficiency - c right SI (C) Medical Observations and Enquiries, W- [b] Dc'obserf. Med. et Anat. Epist. 1714. Epist. Medical Reconls an,i Researches. t xxiii.