[ 455 ] II.—OF H/EMATOCELE. ([Hematocele, Lat.; Blutbrucli, Germ.; Hematocele, Fr.) Pott Percival, The Cliirurgical Works of, vol. ii. p. 382. London, 1783. ij,. Foelett, Journal de Medecine continue, vol. xiii. p. 422. s< Cooper, Sir Astley, Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testicle. 209. London, 1830. 4to. Brodie, B. C., A Clinical Lecture on Hydrocele and Hsematocele in London Medi- al Gazette, vol. ix. p. 926. 1832. Curling, Thomas B., A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testicle and of the permatic Cord and Scrotum, p. 236. London, 1843. 8vo. 1861. Hcematocele is a large outpouring of blood into the various cov- rings of the testicle. The extravasation may be seated in the cellular ssue of the scrotum, in the vaginal tunic, or in the testicle itself. [This division of hsematocele is similar to that made by Pott ; but among most lodern British Surgeons the term is restricted to a collection of blood within the va- nal tunic alone. Herbert Mayo (a), however, observes:—“ This term is given to two Sections, one elfusion of blood, the other of sanguinolent serum into the tunica vaginalis. ■ he latter, I believe, may alternate with hydrocele, the secretion being from an acci- ental cause dark and turbid at one time, clear and serous at another. It may likewise use from blood being mixed with the serum of the hydrocele, in consequence of a .•uise on the testes, or from a vessel having been punctured in tapping a pre-existing Hrocele.”] 1862. The yielding nature of the cellular tissue in the scrotum, the vze of its cells, and the absence of fat render the production of this out- lburing of the blood easy, and permits a very considerable enlargement. t: he usual cause is external violence, a blow on the scrotum and the like ; Bso a wound in which the bleeding vessel cannot be tied may give rise . »it. That severe compression of the abdominal walls whilst the breath Mheld should cause haamatocele is unlikely. According to the size of foe injured vessel is the hematocele more quickly or slowly formed. The ridour of the swollen scrotum is more or less violet or dark, and the nwelling, although tense, is usually not painful. Similar ourpourings of .,ood, in women, occur in the labia. fThis form of the disease, Pott says, “ consists in a rupture of and effusion of blood i pm a branch of the spermatic vein in its passage from the groin to the testicle. In 8 nlc“ case, the extravasation is made into the tunica communis, or cellular membrane , .o muuo uvfumu/us, ui ceiiuiar membrane ■l nesting the spermatic vessels.” (p. 385.) Upon this point Brodie justly observes " | “e t,ssu? here (the cellular tissue of the scrotum) is exceedingly loose as in the eye- 's-and slight injury will rupture vessels and produce ecchymosis; but the name of anatocele is here improperly applied.” (p. 927.)] 1863. This outpouring of blood, although it may be considerable, ge- -rally disperses by antiphlogistic treatment, cold applications, the testicle ft1"?*11!the same time supported with a bag truss, and rest being enjoined, this do not happen, and the swelling become more considerable, the col- »ued blood must be discharged by several deep cuts, the bleeding vessels l u a-nt tl<Td; .°r lf thls be not Possible, the bleeding must be ucneu by msertiner lint moistened in some .nsfrinfr»n+ u.. ^(inched by inserting lint moistened in some astringent wash, and by ap- ! y>ng a close fitting bag truss. ’ J 1 (o) Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 561. London, 1836. Bvo,