697 OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. i, bund, and the cyst cannot be well distinguished from its immediate in- E$i-estments. ■ [“Mr. Hunter considers the internal surface of the cyst to be so circumstanced [^respecting the body, as to lose the stimulus of being an internal part, and to receive the fime impression from its contents, either from their nature or the length of application, i the surface of the skin does from its external situation. It therefore takes on actions lited to such stimuli, undergoes a change in its structure, and acquires a disposition milar to the cutis, and is consequently possessed of the power of producing cuticle liijad hair. What the mode of action is, by which this change is brought about, is not ijMsilydetermined; but from the indolence of these complaints, it most probably re- £ mires a considerable length of time to produce it. That the lining of the cyst really aooes possess powers similar to cutis, is proved by the following circumstances • that it a power of forming a succession of cuticles like the common skin, and what is o (brown off in this way is found in the cavity of the cyst. It has a similar power re- 5 >ecting hair, and sometimes the cavity is filled with it, so great a quantity has been r y led by the internal surface.” It is further addedWhat is still more curious, when ay ich cysts are 'laid open, the internal surface undergoes no change from exposure the ^!*.e(^>es cicatrise, anc^ b°tt°m of the bag remains ever after an external surface i iffereufspecimens of the above-mentioned circumstances are preserved in Mr.Hunter’s !>>i flection of diseases ” (a).] i 2251. Encysted tumours are at first always small, and developed slowly ? ’ a laroe Slze- Their form is generally-round, and their extent well de- i ted, if the surrounding parts do not affect their development in a decided I rection. They are movable at their base ; this, however, depends on ■ ie yieldingness of the parts surrounding them, and .on their firmer or ’ t0«nr ?°”n Wlth .them‘ The manner in which an encysted swelling ■ i filled differs, according to the nature of the contained substance and the cyst; the swelling is elastic, expanded and yielding; a distinct in ictuation is often felt; sometimes it is firm ; the skin coverina- it is un- 3 anged. An encysted tumour, when it has readied a certain °size, often <i mains stationary throughout life, sometimes it continues increasing- . >w y. Various symptoms may be produced by the pressure of the B effing upon important neighbouring parts; if on a bone it will destroy '>■ by continued pressure. Nutrition may also be interfered with by several 91 cysted tumours. J I 2252. Sometimes, in consequence of external violence or from unknown I if8’ “*e encysted tumour inflames, and pours into its cavity a puriform 1 Mn 6??rn.al Ski" reddens> and ulcerates, the cyst bursts, and the l ! cin ltS CaV,lty is discharged- If the inflammation be severe, * - membrane forming the sac is loosened into cellular tissue, thrown off J thus a perfect cure is effected. But this part often remains ulcerated,’ 1 charged T 5 a" 1C}!0T0US. lU-conditioned pus continues to be ( ^ healing lg0US gr * 8pn"g “P’ and the aPertlire obstinately 2253. Encysted tumours are to be considered consequences of an un 1 S\frdmeSi„tdrt’TheWhiCh T pr<”‘imate --“IrcaS; fn peculiar kn’f Hey are fre(luently congenital, and then form I rn.onH • • f ncevus malrrnus; sometimes they are hereditary 1 S LeLanS8omeH0nSeqfenCe °f rheVraatic’ g°uty> syphilitic, or scrofu- 4 ! like Thel mf lr°m 1e,xternal VI°lence, continued pressure, and : are most ou Y TT °'? ^ °f the external surface of the body, ' gest quantity 7 develol)ed where naturally the cellular tissue is in •1-254. A peculiar kind of encysted tumour, which most commonly (n) Home, nliove citect, p. 102.