(ESOPHAGUS. 321 I -here is a difficulty in swallowing, which may amount to the greatest degree of pha °y, dependent on a chronic inflammatory, and consequent spasmodic affection 4 he upper part of the pharynx, and which, on account of its usual connexion with etiginous diseases, and the peculiar change of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, j ^''distinguished as Angina impetiginosa. This disease develops itself without any <*;, ided cause, and after a catarrhal affection of the throat. The difficulty in swallowing j -eases gradually to a very great degree, so that it is often quite impossible for the ent to swallow, and the smallest portion of food or drink is thrown up, with which ■u' -e are also spasmodic contractions in the throat, and difficulty of breathing. It is ■: .culiarity in this complaint, that it is more difficult to get down fluids, than more l j jistent mucilaginous substances; there is often such dread of fluids, that when of jght to the mouth there is the most violent spasm of the glottis, so that every a mpt to swallow is impossible. If the throat be examined by proper compression j,:r he tongue, the hind wall of the pharynx is found to be especially changed; the r£$ 'ous membrane has a net-like or latticed appearance, and between the paler streaks . j perceived a few light red island-shaped elevations. The redness is very indistinct, M er pale, and inclining to yellow; at several parts there is a sort of papular and id .ctenous formation. The patient complains usually, besides the difficulty in swallow- » of a burning or stabbing pain at some one part of the throat; he has often the sen- 1 ii m as if several little knots or bladders had formed and burst, after which a wound, rj|c r sensitive to the touch, remains for some time. These sensations, as well as their - -] es, alternate irregularly. The patient f as frequently the sensation of a circular con- i tion at the upper part of the ossophayus. I have noticed this disease in young and old i ] ons, and always perceived a certain disposition to previous, though inconsiderable timic affection of the skin. The resemblance of the symptoms may mislead to the | umption of an organic stricture, and many patients in this condition have been sent teiflj e by distinguished practitioners ; but an examination, with the oesophageal sound is, i ccount of the excessive sensibility of the throat, impossible, and the alternation of ; i symptoms, and especially the peculiar appearance of the back of the pharynx, can " 1 e determine the diagnosis. The treatment is one of the most difficult questions. In : , i rang man the disease had withstood, for many years, the most different and severe Jedies, both internal and external, employed by several practitioners; at last he sub- J edto mine; but, up to the present time, the observations I have made point out no . iitiite rule. Close consideration of all the previous circumstances, and constitutional i dons, must lead the practitioner in the treatment, which requires equal perseverance ■ i he part of both him and the patient. In one instance, repeatedly touching the back 11«tie pharynx with lunar caustic seemed effective. To a certain extent this condition i I be compared with the spasmodic contractions of the sphincter, in fissura ani. 1. 602. The prognosis, in stricture of the oesophagus, depends on the d and seat of that affection. The simple, membranous stricture *jllts a favourable prognosis, and may be completely got rid of by :>er treatment. Callous and scirrhous stricture rarely allows any sk to its development, and, when once existing, its alleviation is cely possible, and still less its cure. Spasmodic stricture may mostly 'Spot r‘d by proper treatment; the disease however often recurs, is fluently very stubborn, and may run into organic stricture. In svvell- ! ^ "'"'ell compress the oesophagus, the prognosis depends on their nature JnIrmrV ^OOPER (“)'mentions a case in which, during stricture of the crsophaqus, ' l,v .,,4 m. fr°m b outwards by ulceration ; the patient was kepi alive some I fiftq Tnlfnng trough an elastic catheter.—J. F. S.] • • n those cases in which the alteration of the mucous membrane H ^fl’hagus depends on chronic inflammation, a strict attention to ° i- in° accompanied at first with antiphlogistic treatment, :nia nfi60 i^| the continued internal use of hydrochlorate of am- 'ivation , e . ck’ of mercury, of iodide of potash, with simultaneous h caref lilssues’ birUir emetic ointment, setons, and the like, together w s is hn U y'reSu ated living, are required. The progress of the stric- > wever, rarely checked by these means; and its existence may be IJ (°) MS. Lectures.