494 DROPSY OF THE WOMB; OPERATION. the discharge had nearly ceased, and she shortly after returned to her occupation , fc midwife.] 1924. If dropsy of the belly accompany pregnancy, either at the ons< or durino- the middle of its course, very considerable uneasiness is product- * by the great distension of the belly, by the great swelling of the lowe I limbs, and by the pressure which the bowels suffer; breathing is muc ? interfered with, and at last death-like agony, and danger of suffbcatio ) ensue. .£ 1925. If pregnancy be connected with acute ascites, the regular fori ■ of the fundus and body of the womb cannot be distinguished by the touch | specially on account of the enormous distension and projection of tl I hypochondria caused by the quantity of fluid driven up towards tl i diaphragm between the fundus and back of the womb, and the bowel <:> The urine is scanty, and the perspiration ceases. In examining the drops :t of the belly, a fluctuation of water is felt, indistinct in the hypogastric <4 and on the sides, but perceptible and distinct enough in the hypochondria decidedly so and vibrating in the left hypochondrion between the upp< and outer edge of the m. rectus abdominis, and the edge of the fab- ribs. 1926. This place appears to be most fitting for the performance < paracentesis, without running the danger of wounding the womb or tl intestines (a). It is less proper to make the puncture at the usual plac. whilst an assistant with both hands presses the womb towards the spin, thus forming a thick fold of skin, which is either perforated with tl trocar (6), or previously opened with a cut made through the wall of tit bC1927? A collection of Water in the cavity of the Womb (Hydroj Uteri, Hydrometra) may exist in that organ when it is either unimprey nated’or impregnated. In the former case it comes on with pamffe feelings about the pudenda, numbness of the feet, irregular menstruatic and whites, a cold swelling in the region of the womb, spreading ah. over the lower part of the belly, in which, on careful exaimnatioi a fluctuating movement can be perceived. The patient has a ieelin of cold over the whole extent of the womb, of its dropping to one sid- -i. i tp it Hi — ~ InrcrP. tn61 and when she lies down. If the swelling be in itself very large, ther ana wneu nes uuwu. ^ . p n n A‘i ' n 1: is pain, indigestion, qualmishness, vomiting, frequent flatulence, costiveness, difficulty in making water, retention of urine, at las wasting and hectic fever. Sometimes the water is discharge! } vagina from time to time, accompanied with agony and labour-like panui This discharge is not unfrequently periodical. The signs of distinction between this kind of dropsy and pregnancy are, tlie en'^ ment of the tumour without regularity; its cold, fluctuating feel; ttejmouui o . womb is thin, tense, and contracted, and does not rise after the th*rd nioantn, occurrence in girls not arrived at puberty, or in old^ women> ^ throughcuU the. ^ • •ivea at punerty, or m om « uuicu, « uw im HfeTav'e been°unfruitful; the breasts ire generally withered and au(lib red. The absence of the child s motions and of tn the contrary is also observed, i ne aoseuee ui me —“ TT ~~ lliau ni I beating of the heart; and, in some cases, the existence of the disease for more j months confirms the diagnosis. 1928. In dropsy of the pregnant womb, which may be accompanitj („) Scarpa, Mcmoria sulla gravidanza susse- (10 Viksskvx,,On' ■ ,i!a; da Ascite, ed oascryazioni pratiche su i in London Medical and 1 lijsicai J avarUatari deUa'nuova maniera d’usare la para- centesi dell’addomine in simili casi. Treviso, IS17. 8vo 'u’j Bonn, Ueber die Mamvcrhaltnng, p-