707 IN JOINTS. (•consequent inflammatory swelling of the joint, or when, without any in- ■ jury there lias been more or less severe pain, with or without swelling ilpnd which is commonly taken for a rheumatic affection. Frequently the 0 pain connected with these foreign bodies is very severe and constant, and fi accompanied with inflammatory swelling of the joint, or an excessive m accumulation of synovia. The symptoms which these concrements, when not appearing externally, cause, may It -x easily mistaken for an arthritic or rheumatic affection. The diagnostic characters * of the former are, when besides the patient having never been subject of those diatheses, he pain comes on suddenly, and immediately after moving the joint: and when the ittacks have already frequently occurred after any decided movement, if it subside whilst the joint is kept perfectly at rest in a certain posture; if it return on motion, 1 >r the slightest attempt at changing position, neither day-time nor the state of the itmosphere influencing it; when the swelling is dissipated by rest, but the movements : ire not proportionally more free; and lastly, when the patient, who has already suffered g ;lentolSmoSXntac«T reC°VerS the free 1156 of the Joint immediately after some acci- 2274. The commencement of these cartilage-like bodies in joints, is I -ommonly but not always, preceded by external violence. Opinions vary I considerably in regard to their peculiar mode of formation. Some per- ons (Reimarus, Monro) think they are pieces of cartilage broken off; binbe]neVeS,th6m \° be the J'0int-g1ands torn off by violence; I 1. f0r f NchanSe of a Portion of the synovial capsule , ’ fDKfER (c) suPPoses them to have been originally extra- cted blood which has become organized, and assumed the nature of the ■ 'an with whlch it was connected; Sander (d) holds them to be preci- K ormS ’■°m.,the synoma >, Laennec is of opinion that these bodies are C®the 0ater rSl\rfa-e- 0f the S>rnoviaI membrane, and gradually ! ress into the cavity of the joint, the synovial membrane with which they tfhis stemt y S and f0TuS ,a ?em by which they are attached nis stem is, in consequence of the displacements the foreign body suffers 1 tehr0Uih’and the boc]y18 tlien found loose in the joint. Richerand (e) 1 lat- Si°me tbeSe bocbes are organic formations, vicious growths I lZZrtTmi™’ Wi’St 0th“s. the “""'“'V are inlrganic I , the result ef„ t £ of l‘ke opmion, ant] considers the inorganic iilKati“ ,* matter dl’P0M,ed ™ the exterior, ant! either a new I ■ according to the laws of elective attraction, melkr ,minatuially mixed synovia, or as incrustations, to which their ' mula ofTC U? °POn a SeCtl°n throuSh them leads, of which sometimes , / lymPb’ sometimes parts of the natural apparatus of the joint y^stem f ?6re a,1S° bel0n° th0se bodies which /previously connected “1 theiHncrIL 'rsubtf Tt ^ the 0r^ardc station ceases, •e built up of homn? th® law/ of Seneral attraction, so that they int. The origin of °eneous matter from the surrounding fluids of the •emical relation of af er-P™d,ucts, depends on a change of the ey are living growth^nfH86* ^ 7^7'^’ or mechanical violence; ^erspreadino- Ihf hl/V f '6 gl5"dular ^t-apparatus, of the cartilage emselves; °they aie i°f,the bo"es’ even of the joint-surfaces atous, or penetrated with ^6nera a toPl,lcal mature, sometimes sarco- °m the bone • thev H bo.ne ’ tll0Se become bony which spring ! . al'aCl,ed °lthCT “• loosd/by their basel £ 6) ‘Nea1l!0nR’ above cited> P- 14. •bp. 99. Ucmerk«ngen und Erfalirungen, 1 0Ur> above cited, p. 03? (d) In Diet, des Sciences Medicales, vol. iv p. 1 -7, Article Cartilage. vSn? Nosographie Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 349. i'lltn Edition. 2 Z 2