RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. 845 spirally, after haviug cut off the steel points, to bring the cheeks near to one another, and in this way to cause the nose to become prominent. On the eleventh day he with- drew the pins, and introduced two others at different points from those first used • and in eight days more, on these being removed, the nose stood quite prominent.”] ’ 2553. If the bridge of the nose drop in, as consequence of destruction of a part of the septum, but the bony frame still remain perfect, according to Dieffenbach, a wedge-shaped piece should be cut out of the pre° viously long and down-hanging nose. The tip of the nose being stretched the straight edge of a knife is placed upon the ridge of the nose below the nasal bone, and the nose is cut through at a stroke, with the blade turned a little upwards, to the skin of the cheek. A like cut is then made ob- liquely upwards beneath the depression, so that both cuts meet at an angle and cut out a wedge-shaped piece. When the usual smart bleedino- has ceased, and the secretion of lymph into the wound has begun, two inter- rupted sutures are passed with round needles through the septum, one end of each thread cut off, and the other carried to the nostril. The edo-es of the wounds on the sides and ridge of the nose are to be united by six or eight twisted sutures. With a small, straight-pointed nose, which by cutting out a wedge- shaped piece, would be drawn too much upwards, on each side two semi- circular cuts must be made, so that the one point of the oval turn to the ridge and the other to the base of the nose. The union of the septum and of the outer edges of the wound are made as in the former case After the operation a little bump is formed on the ridge of the nose’ which at a later period becomes level. In other cases the ridge of the nose may be preserved, and merely an oval piece cut out of both side walls, so that one point of the oval turn towards the cheek, and the other to the ridge of the nose. The union is managed as before. Dlafin? fnr “m- be rntird th<l inhealinS of metallic frames aud plates of gold or platina, for putting to rights sunken noses, as has been attempted by Rust Klein Galenzowski, and Tyrrell. Although the inhealing readily take place vvt the’ plate must most commonly be removed afterwards. ^ 9 ^ ie [I recollect Tyrrell’s operation with a silver frame which consisted of „ narrow silver stem for the ridge, terminating below in three prongs, which were bent so as to support the column and wings of the nose, to which it at once gave In excellent | much difficult^Tndnt-fem0V ’ W,hat reaSOn 1 d0 n0t recollect> 'vas attended with flan dr'n { ’ d’ f my mem0ry be correct’ the nose which had been made with a i^nap, dropped down and was not very ornamental.—J. F. S.] lm a , ,, Iv?4; If lip of the nose be turned too much downwards as in i Swn^rtHlthe fold anriee SkiT 7^ iS t0 be tak*n -.point of a small scalpel, and cuTthrlgh to tleroot of 51^1^ be tip of the nose immediately rises of itself and still mo ^ 1 ” t£denCStro °f, °f * mail Sl^ it the nose and^ressld ? 'n? Insect'Pins are to be thrust across -Plate of’lead is to be worn'^n tVe^ioS “P ^ 5 °r a saddle‘shaPed