AND THEIR TREATMENT. 705 ■> ratery cyst. A puncture was made in it, and about an ounce of clear fluid discharged • * S he lips of the wound were brought together, and it soon healed. But in the course of hree or four days, the part again swelled, the skin inflamed, suppuration took place ra< he wound opened, and a portion of the supposed cyst protruded, which being gentlv 0 rawn out, was found to be an acephalocyst; a cure soon followed. The second case >ad several of these animals, each contained in its proper cyst in the cavity of the ja elly, and attached to the doublings of the peritoneum; one of them, large enough to * ■“*>“ a P'nt of was situated between the base of the bladder and the rectum and v lied up the cavity of the pelvis, thrusting the bladder upwards above the symphysis uljts’ and by the pressure it made on the lengthened neck of the bladder, causing re- intoon of urine, for the relmf of which, it was necessary to cut into the perineum, * ',h.e“ ™ was drawn,oa ; but 01 e catheter continually failed in the performance f its duty till an enormously long one was passed; the patient suffered much, and died ji i about a week, when the cause of difficulty was explained by the position of the djfephalocyst, as above mentioned—J. F. S.] 1 H 2269. The mode of development of these hydatids is unknown • when i™g in lai¥e quantity, they are often produced anew, of various number ; -id size, in the cavity of each hydatid. They not unfrequently occur external lnJulT> as blows, falls, and the like; frequently, however Hithout any external cause. What internal diseased action is under these (circumstances operating is unknown. They frequently die ; the fluid then ■"* irrn tki^ens’ ,and becomes yeIlow ; the vesicle crumples b n, and the thickened fluid is changed into a fat-like or earthy substance. "he membrane often inflames, fills with pus, the vesicle dies, and its remains HT“ tbe r 1Somet,meS the>r make their way into an excretory duct , ' id are discharged ; sometimes into a serous cavity, where they quickly ten f t i:i5a,nmatl0n- When enclosed in a bone, they so thin its ! jbstance that fracture occurs on the slightest occasions, as Dupuytren fcfved in the uPPer arm> and Wickham in the shin-bone (Pigne') 1 ™ ]S ia 0ie Museum at St. Thomas’s an excellent example of acephalocvsts I Xh,e medallai'y cav0y the upper arm. The bone had been brokenprobablv Sr &d'h,t lreatmM f Matidous swellings, when external, simply JTV" thwr remova\ In domg this, the thin vesicle is general LtT” m“St be r“"OT«l with Cooper’s scissors, and the «&|n already treated of (par. 1870.) ’ d hanges of the "‘ucous bags, have - , . ^ib CARTILAGINOID BODIES IN JOINTS = ! 2 ST™ "* 0bSe"“ti0”S °f E“inb„r6h, v„l. iv. p. 2„. ’ eimarus, De Tumore Ligamentorum circa Articulos, Fungo Articulorum dicto. oS OL ^D" ARD ’ ln Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. . p. 329. 2