814 DISEASED UNDESCENDED TESTICLE. [The operation here recommended should not be performed as it is useless and cruel The testicle, though seated in the groin, performs its functions equally well, and i > there be any fear of its situation rendering it liable to injury, it may be protected with a cup truss. It is of great importance that persons who are subject of this unusual position of the; testicle, should be acquainted with the fact of it being matter of not the slightest con- | sequence to their condition, as very serious mental alienation has occurred from their i notion of being unlike other people, and incapable of performing an important function..■ In some instances, indeed, the horror of their presumed condition has led to self-de- struction. Neither must it be omitted to mention that, although the testicle has been: seated for many years in the groin, yet that occasionally, without any apparent cause,-! it will descend and take its natural place in the scrotum.—J. f. s. There is not any reason why the testicle remaining in the groin should not be: attacked with disease, as it is after its descent into the scrotum; but such cases, as far as I am aware, are exceedingly uncommon; the following three examples are therefore very interesting; the first two are histories attached to casts in the Museum of Stcs Bartholomew’s Hospital, for which I have to thank my friend Paget ; and the last is now (November) in the Middlesex Hospital, under the care of my friend Arn'ott,' who has kindly furnished me with his notes. Case 1. The man was a labourer, aged forty-four years. His mother said, that at the time of his birth a small tumour was observed in his groin, which has remained there: : ever since. Seven years before his death it began to increase considerably in size, and six weeks previous to Mr. Sargant seeing him, in November 1830, it had attained such bulk as to incapacitate him from following his usual employment. At that time it seemed attached to the anterior superior spine of the ilium and to the upper part of the pubes, and hung down over the thigh ; and was considerably inflamed. Treat-: ment was adopted calculated to remove this condition : and soon after he came to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; but in January 1831 he returned to Mr. Sargant’s care. The tumour had then greately increased in size,and was slightly inflamed, accompanied- with considerable fever and general disorder. Mild antiphlogistic remedies were adopted, and after the application of a blister, were maintained for a week; the tumour pointed at its most depending part, and having been punctured, a pint and a half - of green, offensively-smelling matter was discharged. He was allowed nutritious diet, with wine, &c„ and was soon able to leave his bed and walk in the open air, about eight ounces of matter, however, being discharged daily. In the following «IS strength having regularly increased, he was able to walk four or five miles in the day, T and the tumour continuing to discharge, was much decreased iu size. On the 1UAO the same month, haemorrhage, to the amount of about a quart, took place, it was sup- posed from a branch of the epigastric artery. After this he seemed, for a time, to have recovered his previous improved condition; but in the beginning or June attacked with fever, occasional shiverings, great and most distressing pain in the l°i and the tumour again rapidly and considerably enlarged. The discharge a time was lessened; but on the 20th of the same month, a fresh opening was taneously made near the former one, and from this a copious discharge cnsuei . a ‘ panied about every three days with a discharge of about eight ounces of > °)M • , bowels now became obstinately costive, and he had great irritabilitj of s,°niac i. constant retching and vomiting. He continued iu this state, but gradua > ’ . worse, and on the 27th of July died. On examination, the stomach, liter,, an -P ■ were found healthy. The mesenteric glands were considerably enlarged and mmin. > and on being cut into, discharged the brain-like substance observable m mei ^ sarcoma. The testicle could not be found; nor could the spermatic cord beyond the tumour, though it was carefully sought for. What remained of t was a mass of soft encephaloid substance. , on Case 2. Was under the care of Lawrence of Brighton, and the cast was "Li jnt0 account of its similarity to the former. In this also the testicle had not desce the scrotum, and it was presumed that it was an encephaloid tumour ot that org had produced the enlargement. „„ -tfti Case 3. Richard Lorn,, aged 43 years, was admitted into Middlesex 1‘°;P ’ t»nd Nov. 3, 1846. On account of a tumour in the right groin ; it is; Urge, r» ment, of an oval shape, with its long diameter nearly in the direction of Pom1 * ^ QuU,r which, however, it covers somewhat obliquely ; the greater part ot “K 11 f the lower end of the mass of the tumour being above the ligament, the greater {? inclies in the and inner end being below its level. Over the surface it,measureda half long direction, and six and a half in the short. It extended from d i /UD IcjC m in to mi ?£ & V- w it » 0 : Ml *8 I ■fHMMHi