791 LIABLE TO BE CONFUSED WITH CANCEK. Dll I £ X m H® rap i i' I ® ci S«8 ! e 3:17 SC 3' j) IK) i t! i u 1r 5'jj. s-.t- hit' tiv ffeM' >JV . fc •Ui able, if, in course of time, it have not passed into scirrhous degeneration. On examining the tumour, it is found to consist of large and small cavities, upon the unequal size of which the irregular shape of the tumour depends, which are filled with serous, gelatinous, more or less bloody- fluid, or with a lard-like substance, the walls of which are of different thickness, and even of a cartilaginous nature. Astley Cooper distinguishes several kinds of hydatid swellings of the breast. “ The first species of this disease exists in the form of simple bags, which contain a serous fluid. I should call them cellulous hydatids ; and the symptoms which they produce are as follows:—The breast gradually swells, and in the beginning is entirely free from pain or tenderness; it becomes hard, and no fluctuation can then be dis- covered in it; it continues slowly growing for months, and even for years, sometimes acquiring very considerable magnitude, the largest I have seen having weighed nine pounds; but, in other cases, although the bosom was quite filled with these bags, yet it never exceeded twice the size of the other breast. At first the swelling feels entirely solid, so that it bears a great resemblance to a simple chronic enlargement of the breast; but, after a great length of time, a fluctuation can, at one part, be discovered in it, and then the breast begins to increase more quickly; and, in several parts, similar fluctuations can be detected. The cutaneous veins become varicose ; but, although the breast is eminently enlarged, it still continues almost entirely free from pain; but to this there are exceptions. * * * At length one of the fluctuating portions of the breast slowly inflames, ulcerates, and discharges a large quantity of serum, or of a fluid haying its general character, but of a consistence somewhat more glairy ; and the sac being emptied, and the external opening closed, if the fluid be entirely discharged, it is a long time before it re-accumulates ; and sometimes the sides of the sac adhere, and the cyst ceases to secrete. In other instances I have known the swelling break and discharge a mucilaginous fluid mixed with serum; and several of the cells in succession, and at aishint periods, pass through the ulcerative process, and form sinuses which are very diffi- cult to heal. Excepting during the process of ulceration, the general health remains entirely undisturbed, and the person suffers so little, either locally or constitutionally, Uiat her friends do not discover her malady; and nothing would lead her to consent to an operation for its removal but the anxiety of mind and the apprehension which the idea of a cancer produces, and the great inconvenience and distress which the weight of a large swelling occasions * * * It is found, upon a careful dissection, that the interstices of the glandular structure itself, and the tendinous and cellular tissue con- necting it, are, in a great measure, filled with fibrous matter, poured out by a peculiar spccies of chronic inflammation ; but, in some of the interstices, a bag is formed, into wnicn a serous, or glairy, or sometimes a mucous fluid, is secreted, according to the llf, 1e w .inflammation attending it; and this fluid, from its viscidity, and from the solid effusion which surrounds it, as well as from the cyst being a perfect bag, cannot «*ape into the surrounding tissue. * * * Vast numbers of these cysts are found o occupy each part of the breast, producing and supporting a continued but slow an imm"' an.d occaslonine an effusion of fibrous matter, by which the breast forms tumour, consisting of solid and fluid matter. Within these bags of fluid Sch aSfl,?a,ng'ng ^ S?'a,H R:tal!iS * V. ^d a cellular tissue wiff them?fn datids* on thn V? .c,ollec*e,d.’ wblcb* a tbouSb it produced the appearance of cells, or liy- Tl.ic r c outside, within assumed the character of anasarcous swellings * * * reSemfbieS fimple Chr°niC inflam“ation, bufmay be dis- whmh the . by • bsenCe of.teri(lerness upon pressure, and the perfect health in stage* when it fl .eirtir8’! ?5 U l° be “ local disease.' In the second fluctuation and hvthe^hJ* ’S dl*crimmated by observing several distinct seats of ‘he bag , whenthe evLirio r tendernessi but.the b<*t criterion is the puncture of ‘eactaf’th?fru?^3“$clear s£rum’ lnstead of a purulent fluid, at once finguished bv the absence r • t isease. From a scirrhous tubercle it may be dis- company that^maliment r ®8e occasional acute and darting pains which ac- hardness which ire 1 * ec-ion, by the preservation of health, and by the excessive this disease;! thl .con,comitants °f scirrhuaj (p. 20-25.) A furthe/peculiarity of Cooper seen it in both breast!! ^ °tler PartS by absorPtion> I10r bas Astley tfipation Cwhen 'n Puni;turing it, if there be only one large cyst, and in its ex- removed’to Drevent thl° at ected; ln doing which all the hardness must be u 10 Prevent the return of the complaint.