[ 268 ] VI.—OF ANEURYSMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURYSM. Hunter, Wm, M.D., Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. i. p. 340, vol. ii. p. 390. Guattani, De cubiti flexurao aneurysinatibus; in Lautii’s Col lectio Scriptorum, &c., p. 203. Scarpa, above cited, p. 421. Translation. Hodgson, above cited, p. 496. . . « Adelmann, P., Tractatus anatomico-cbirurgicus de aneurysmate spurio-vancoso. Wirceb., 1821. 4to; with two lithographic plates. J Schottin, Merkwtirdiger Fall einer aneurysmatiscben VeneDgescliwulst. Alten- burg, 1822. , ,, „ . Breschet, Memoires cbirurgicaux sur differentes especes d Anevrj smes. 1 ans, 1834, p. 98. _ 1491 If a vein and an artery connected with it be so injured, that by the subsequent adhesion of the edges of the wounded vessels, an immediate communication between the two vessels is produced, it is called an A/ieu- n/smal Varix ( Varix cmeurysmaticus, Aneurysma per transfusionem. A arterioso-venosum.') It occurs most frequently at the elbow-joint, as consequence of blood-letting; it is, however, also observed in other parts (1). f n On the upper arm, by Richerand, Cloquet, Jaeger ; on the radial artery, and cephalic vein, by Schottin ; on the subclavian, by Larrey ; on the carotid by Larrey and Marc ; on the temporal, by Bushe and myself; on the femoral artery, by Siebold, Barnes, Dupuytren, Breschet ; on the popliteal, by Lassus, Sabatier, Richerand, Boyer, Larrey, Hodgson ; on the external iliac, by Larrey ; and on the division of the aorta and vena cava, by Syme. . i TMy friend Mackmurdo has very recently had a case of aneurysmal varix between the1 internal jugular vein and carotid artery close to the skull. Its existence was not known prior to death. The man had had scrofulous enlargement of the glands of the neck near the angle of the jaw, which suppurated; a sinuous ulcer formed from which arterial lnemorrhage occurred twice, and Mackmurdo thought it advisable to tie the common carotid artery which arrested the bleeding; but the patient s«mk after seven days, and on examination, besides large destruction of the bifurcation of the caro artery and of the internal jugular vein, the aneurysmal varix, already mentioned, was found.—J. F. S.] 1492. Aneurysmal varix is characterised by a circumscribed swelling of blue colour, and small extent, which is formed by expansion of the vein and in which a peculiar tremulous motion, and whizzing noise are observed, produced by the overflowing of the blood from the artery into the vein. The swelling is generally, at least, at the bend of the arm, not larger than a nutmeg, (on the femoral and subclavian, it has been seen as large as an egg, and even as big as the fist,) accompanied with vane swelling of the neighbouring veins; it subsides entirely by pressugj shows less pulsation if the part on which it is situated be raised ; but greater if the part hang down, or if pressure be made upon the vein be this swelling. If the artery be compressed above the swelling, the po- tion at once ceases, but returns directly the pressure is withdrawn, trunk of the artery above the swelling pulsates more strongly than on opposite side, and is much distended; below the swelling, the pulsation i weaker, but after long continuance the diameter of the artery dW increased, and the artery often becomes tortuous. The size of thes 1 depends on the size of the opening of communication between the;arte. vein, though the swelling usually diminishes somewhat; if the neighbo S veins be enlarged, it then increases no more and no or^ei particular inconvenience. In other cases, however, it is accomf