170 CURVATURE OF THE SPINE; attempted to elongate that side, a cord, as thick as the little linger, was seen stretching from the crest of the ilium to the scapula; as soon as this rigid cord of muscle was cat through, the ribs became less huddled together, and that side could be elongated to a much greater degree, and the spine materially affected. The cutting of the d or»l muscle is only the first, though an important step in the treatment of spinal deformities. The means that are afterwards employed in conducting such cases to a success ul issue, are both mechanical and physiological. The first consists in the application of pressur^ . made in various ways, and by various means, to assist in the gradual return of the parts to their natural places; and the second, without which the first would be useless ■ and unavailing, consists in infusing power into the muscles which have become weaker dormant from disease. by simply calling these muscles frequently, and in various com- ■ binations. m o division of “ certain muscles of the back, on the contracted state of f wh eh it was alleged the distortion depended,” Syme observes, “nothing could be more erroneous than this view of the case, since the muscles throughout its production Td existence are entirely passive. They, from the first, do not draw the spine away, . but allow it to bend, their fault being weakness, and not undue contraction, so that those • requWng to be connected are seated on the convexity of the curve, instead of ite con- cavity, and it is needless to add, could not be strengthened by division of their sub- • St!T have(not had any experience upon the subject, but am rather disposed to agree in opinion with Syme.—J. F. S.] . 1365. In curvatures dependent on great muscular weakness, internal tonic remedies must be employed, as bark, acorn coffee and the bke ^a strengthening succulent diet, the use of generous wines, chalybeate mineral waters, rubbing in volatile, aromatic, and spmtuous remedies, stee , . or aromatic bathing, river bathing, and so on. In these cases the - nastic exercises are especially effective, and, by their proper arrangement the injuries are more certainly prevented, which otherwise are necessarj produced by rest and inactivity of the muscles, accompanied wit use of the stretching apparatus. In children who begin to walk, usually sufficient to rub the back and lower limbs with spirituous remed es, to prevent sitting, and to let them sleep upon a hard mattrass. lu the high shoulder attempts must be made to relax and continually depress the too greater activity, and drawing back the head is effected. . 1366 If the curvature of the spine depend on softening and thickening . of the fibrous inter-cartilage, the readiness with whmh, by extension, the direction of the spine can be changed, renders it in the highest de proper If, by pressure, movement between the several vertebra ca bought about, there is no need of making any attempt at ^nsion, *r of employing any other means which act forcibly on the vertebra altered joints must first acquire more firmness. If, at the same une ^ be pain, which, although not symptomatic of inflammation, leads hobef of a passive gorging of the blood-vessels, a condition which by neglect passes on to inflammation and suppuration, leeches am cupping x are to be first employed, though not to excess; afteirwa^ds rubbmg in volatile camphor liniment, blisters, issues, cold douche b, warm douche bath of salt water, of water containing dplmrd^l. \ gen, even moxas, especially on the principal seat of the d^n [ env; rd. patient should observe a quiet posture on “Ve mTtions cautiously use the easiest gymnastic exercises; for instance, (a) Engravings, pi. vii. f. i., and described in his Essay on Distortions, already quoted.