TREATMENT OF GANGLIONS. 701 Kill the cyst be penetrated, then its contents are emptied, and for some lays its interior must be irritated by frequently introducing a probe or nii ouching it with either of the just-mentioned escharotics, after which the 9- yst separates and can be removed. Third. A seton, smeared with some M rritating ointment, may be passed through the greatest diameter of the :ti amour to produce the separation and death of the cyst. Fourth. The i welling may be punctured with a trocar, its contents allowed to flow iuhrough the canula, and some irritating fluid injected and allowed to escape, when the swelling has been filled and become painful. Soothing Jboultices are then applied, and when the swelling is soft and fluctuating^ :) ;n opening must be made through which the pus usually collected in the yst escapes. These modes of treatment as well as the ligature, may be ■mployed under the same circumstances, and especially when the cyst is not h ery thick. I have often made use of the first and second methods in ei ncysted tumours of the face, and frequently after emptying have pulled m ut the cyst; they have the advantage of leaving a smaller scar than that lit f extirpation (a). 2261. When the tumour has its roots very deeply seated amono' i npoitant parts, which must be injured by complete removal, a mixed m -eatment must be had recourse to. First. The cyst must be laid bare at )? s base as far as possible, without injuring any important vessel, a ligature r aplied around, and the tumour cut off in front of it. Second. As much : f the cyst must be removed as can be done safely, and the remainder ■ sstroyed with caustic. Third. The cyst must be opened, filled with lint, lnd when it begins to crumple together, it must be attempted to separate from its bed. Fourth. When the root of the tumour cannot be «ot without a dangerous wound, it must be isolated as far as possible, •awn up, and a ligature applied with a loop-tier. These mixed modes of *> -oceeding are very often required in encysted tumours of the neck (b). f 2262- Encysted tumours caused by stoppage of a sebaceous follicle 1 ay at first, when the follicle is merely a spot filled with blackish hard- ijied tallow-like substance, be emptied by introducing a probe into r> e stopped opening, and then squeezing out the substance. If force P' requisite to squeeze it out, it is better to enlarge the opening with cut. Frequent squeezing prevents the refilling of the follicle.0 The • jmoval of these tumours from the head is not always free from danger is, however, unnecessary to dissect them out, unopened ; a cut may be ade’ contents emptied, the cyst seized with a hook or forceps lifted r \)*f grated (1‘). When a horny growth has been formed in the th the'horn (c) neCeSSary’ to prevent its recurrence, to remove the cyst thvSe Cyf KP°n th? head’if n0t adherent from inflam- rea ,y , out> fr the skin only be cut through ; and it is more convenient 99C<r on™ wh0 e’than after °PeninS them as Ghelius recommends.—J F S ] still riet of ganglions must be guided by their condition. itments l’ttheiF ?SpeP10n should be attempted by rubbing in volatile ■tments, or turpentine by repeated application of tincture of iodine, by th amrid I?1 a,nd. 1‘emlock Piasters, by blisters, by constant pressure TersS and G “‘l W, .banda£e’ and the lik«- If they will not be so JB _ 5 ie cys^ its subcutaneous rupture may be attempted '^nnde, vol. i! part ^*,r ^at,,r un(* {|®p Bal^gesclnvnlsto am Halse und fiber cine neue BauNNiyoiuiiHFv llidwir din p *• Metliode dieselbe mit Slcherheit zu vcrrichton* OHAU8EN» ueber die Exstirpation Wiirzburjf, 1805. (c) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. 241.. i t< ;r