[ 846 ] II.—OF THE MECHANICAL COMPENSATION FOR LOST PARTS. 2555. The compensation for lost parts by mechanical contrivances is either merely with the object of removing or diminishing deformity, or for restoring the functions of lost parts; the former is the object of artificial noses and eyes, the latter of artificial legs and the like. A.—OF ARTIFICIAL LEGS. 2556. The oldest and most simple contrivance for the purpose, after the loss of the thigh or leg, of rendering the mutilated person capable of walking without crutches, is the wooden leg, (die Stelzen, Germ.; jambe de hois, Fr.,) which, though it do not hide the deformity, still, especially with some practice by the cripple, answers its object tolerably well. For the purpose of not merely supplying the lost function of walking, but also I of giving, as far as passible, the form of the lost limb, a multitude of con- trivances have been proposed, from Pare” up to the present time. 2557. Pare' (a) gave an engraving of a machine for the amputated thigh which was furnished with a knee-joint, and with joints in the fore part of the tarsus, and with an elastic spring. Ravaton (b) invented artificial legs for those who had lost their leg immediately above the ankle. White (c) describes artificial tin legs covered with thin leather. Addison (d) invented an instrument with motion at the knee- and ankle- joints. Wilson (e) formed legs of stiff leather. In Germany Brun- ninghausen (/) made known an artificial foot, which was far more perfect than the old ones, and gave pattern to those of Stah (^), Berrens (h), Heine (i), Graefe (A), Ruhl (Z), Palm (jn), Dorx- blutii (n), and Schuruchat, for the thigh, and Wals (o), Miles, Serre, and others, for the leg. 2558. In making choice among the different kinds of artificial legs, the following points are to be attended toBesides the correspondence of the artificial with the whole leg as to form, for the purpose of removing the deformity, it must be made as light as possible, but proportionally strono-; it must allow the natural movements ; and afford a convenient and safe rest for the stump which it surrounds, avoiding, however, all painful pressure on it, and specially on the amputated surface. Simplicity of con- struction and lowness of price are, at least for the greater number ot maimed persons, important advantages. Of all the artificial legs prop » those which best answer these requirements, according to my experience, are Ruhl’s for the leg and Stare’s for the thigh. , 2559. Ruhl’s leg lias the peculiarity of well-stretched Russia leather, two inches broad around the stump, to which two strong brass hooks are attached ; with this the stump received into the socket of the leg IS s ^ (n) CEuvres, p. 904. Paris, 1798. (61 Chirurgle d’Armea. &c. Paris, 1,68. Svo. (r) Bell, B., System of Surgery, vol. vi. p.512. (d) BroMFIKLD, William, Chirurgical Observa- tions and Cases. 2 vols. 8yo. London, 1,73. fel Bill. B., above cited. (/) Richter’sChirnrgische Uibliothek, vol. xv. P7»?Vngweisung mm verbesserten chirurg. Ver- ban¥e, p 498, pi. xxiv. fig. 227 228 Berlin, 1802. (/,) Lanoknbkck’s Bibllothek dor Cb.nirgic, vol. iv. p. 173, pi. i. fig. i.-iv., pi- d fig. (i) Bescbreibungeinesneuen kunstllchcn Fusses, for den Ober- und Unterschenkel. Wurzburg, 1811. (6) Normen fur die Abldsung gntsserer Glied- massen, p. 147. Berlin, 1811. . . (I) Ueber die Ersetzungs Clnmrgie im mcinen, nebst Abbildung und lleschretbuni. kunstlichen Unterschenkels ; in Hufei. _ Journal, vol. xl. part iv. p. 1. fig- 'ij^bus (m) Dissert. (lYies. Autknbieth) de pen* artificialibus. Tubing., 1818. i rsatz Jcr (n) t eller den Mecbanisehcn W "':lcrc,re*„irt.n(. n) lelxtrden iuecnaniscoeu " . rjeene verlorenen untoren Gliedmiwsen i Apparate. Rostock. 1831 ; 'v'1]1 J_Rnss- («) Rust’s Magazin, vol. _lxib‘ \Vjen, winklkr, A., I cIkt kunsUiche ,,'fcrtafeln, )S3H. fol.—Krorief's Uururg.scbe K ] pi. ceccli.