234 TYING TIIE first, immediately above the collar-bone; second, below the part where the m. omo-hyoideus crosses the carotid ; third, above that point. If the «• seat and extent of the swelling do not permit the ligature below the aneurysm, it must be applied above {par. 1433.) The patient is to he * placed horizontally upon a couch, the head supported by a pillow, and» the diseased side of the neck turned properly towards the light. 1438. In tying the carotid artery immediately above the collar-bone, a cut of two inches and more should be made through the skin and m. platysma myoides, from the top of the breast-bone along the inner edge of the m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus. When the edge of this muscle is laid bare, it must be separated from its cellular connexion with the * m. sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus, and drawn outwards, whilst the latter two muscles are drawn inwards, with a blunt hook, by an assistant. The m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus is now to be relaxed by inclining the head . : to the affected side. The internal jugular vein appears in the wound, i and must be drawn outwards, with the forefinger of the left hand from the artery, the sheath of which is then to be opened with delicate and careful strokes of the scalpel; or, when the vein has been fixed externally by an assistant, the sheath is to be raised with forceps, and carefully cut into; the artery should be carefully isolated with the handle of the knife, e and the ligature applied round it with Deschamfs’ needle. The operation is always most difficult at this part, on account of the depth of artery beneath the m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and because it is entirely covered by thjf jugular vein. . ... j Zang (a) has proposed that an incision, beginning from the top of the cricoid cartilage should be carried outwards between the two portions of the in. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and terminate at a quarter of an inch from the collar-bone; the skin and m. platysm wi/aides, and the edges of the wound must be kept asunder with the blunt hook, the c* hilar tissue uni fascia of the neck divided, and thus the triangular space formed by the sternal and clavicular insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle reached. The intera*| cervical fascia is then to be cut through, the thyroid gland drawn inwards, the jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve outwards, the artery taken hold of by the forceps, gently raised, and a ligature passed with a proper needle close to the part where the artery covered by the m. omo-liyoideus. . . .. J§| According to Dietrich’s proposal (6), an incision is to be made on the mesial line the windpipe, from the semilunar notch at the top of the breast-bone, to the cnco» cartilagef from two and a half to three inches in length, through the skin, cellular tissue, m. plali/sma myoides, and external cervical fascia, by which the small veins running from above downwards are avoided. The tendinous connexion between the m. scam hi/oideus and sterno-thyroideus is then to be divided, the edges of the wound drawn asuntw with a blunt hook, and the muscles just mentioned pushed from the windpipe, withUK handle of the knife, and carried towards the shoulder. The branches of the mttnw thyroideal vein, as well as the thyroid gland, which appears from the middle to the uppw end of the wound, must be avoided. The finger is to be introduced into the wo® downwards and outwards, after the cellular tissue has been divided with the liana the knife, and the vessel is felt enclosed in its sheath, which is then to be opened, artery a little raised, and the ligature introduced. As upon the left side the carotid artery lies deeper and nearer to the pleuro , jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve higher, and the thoracic duct close be » __ sheath of the artery, the performance of the above mode of treatment th "*■ ■( . ii The following method, proposed by Coatf.s (c), is more easy and more . • cut from two to two and a half inches long, is to be carried upwards from the , edge of the breast-bone, upon the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, ® |he lower end of this incision, a second is to be made parallel to the upper edge collar-bone, to the inner edge of the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid mu. , , (fc) Above cited, p. (a) Blutige Operationen, vol. i. p. 2,ti. [2, " (c) Medico-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. pt. ii.