102 TREATMENT OF CEREBRAL RUPTURE. Punctures have been made very frequently with successful rt'Sl^ (a) xt-irpat;on Tying the swelling (Schneider) (6), and incision with theJ*w . extirpaxmn, under incorrect diagnosis (Lallemand) (c), and the filing has sometimes brain (Stanley) (d) (2), have had fatal results. Opening the sweinng n first discovered the incorrectness of the diagnosis, and a 1 ^ 1F'. Xrrin(r ofSthe hole sure, has been employed till the brain has returned, and complete scarring 1 in the skull (e) has taken place. ,a transparent 1 [(1) Henry Earle mentions (/) the case of a dt s h^ h'-e“ed to the size ' fflohnlar tumour nt thp bank of the head, which in eig 1 cy [(1) Henry Earle mentions (/) the case ot a leniale c i ^"u^eased to the size globular tumour at the back of the head, which in «g ‘ ) s disease termed of a billiard-ball; it “appeared to be in its serum, in conse- spina bifida, and to consist of an expansion of dura , , three punctures quence of a deficiency of bony or other support at this part not with a common needle, and let out three drachms of flunk Two healed two days after, and pressure again discharged fl tken pricked days after, the punctures had healed, and the sac was ag n full it ^“n.n off with a very fine trocar-made needle and canula, and an ouncee°^ andat Five times after, at intervals of from to two four day P , thickened. For six- the last little fluid was evacuated, and the sac, having of gkin came away, teen days the case went on well, but then the sac Thlee davs after, the tumour and a Shin ichor discharged from the whole; Srfiith a lancet, was as large as ever, but opaque and very vascular, , tumour was again and half an ounce only of fluid discharged. Twice the swell- emptied with the lancet; but two days after theHas pu^1 b begant0 ulcerate, and ing inflamed, and on the day following, the flap o P small aperture, through in two days more extended down to the cavity of ■ Y w;tkout any symptoms which thiserum continued to ooze. Three days after sheS was punc- of inflammation or effusion on the brain. Adams ecret;on 0f fluid diminished, tured seven times, the skin gradually thickene , remained. The child but protrusion, probably a small portion of the cerebellum, remamea. recovered. „ , mentions a case (p) in Puncture is not, however, free from danger. ensued. Seiler (A) per- wliicli the large swelling was opened by Fried, , . , , yON Qraefe (t) formed this operation, and the child died comatose on ^ all50ff the escape of the punctured with a trochar and canula, and lef . flUskv colour, it was with- fluid; but the swelling becoming painful, and assuming a dusky co.our, I drawn, convulsions ensued, and the child died. . • c]flidren, in which Pitschaft (/<■) relates two cases of suppuia ing p application twice a day of some of the brain oozed out, and which were cured by the oak bark ; aud The cl,i"lre”’s of the brain, soon after the removal of portions ot the skuii Two of the boys died and one lived. J. h • ®\| c.—Of Prolapses. , 9rr a Prolapse (Prolapsus, Procidentia, Lat. ; lot fall, (a r’u; » Xu consists the difference between prolapse and rupture. (a, Feotuep’s Notizen, vol. xxxvi.p. 346.- p. 209. , (c) Uoykr, above cited. [c) rIchtbe’8 clunirg. Bibliothek., vol. iv. p. 566; and Stanley, above cited. (/) Above cited. _ to) Above cited, p. 336. (h) Rust's Chirurgie, vol. vui. p. E*i. . » (0 VON Geaefe und von W aethers Journft Vt ) m-KLANO und OSANNX Journal fdr I»4 tischer Ileilk. 1832, Oct., p. 06.