ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 694 the discharge has lost its oily character, and healthy suppuration is set up and then the cure is to be promoted by bringing together the edges of the wound. When the swelling is penetrated by a great many vessels, or its ; roots cannot be removed by the knife without great danger, it may be necessary to apply a ligature around its base, which must be isolated as much as possible, and tire swelling cut off beyond it. Under these circum- stances, the destruction of the remaining substance, by the use of escha- rotics, is exceedingly difficult, and even impossible (a). The employment of a seton for the removal of lipoma, is only fitting when the extir- pation is impossible. This method, however, is always extremely uncertain, as the swelling either does not go away, or soon recurs. [ (1) I have never seen the inconveniences to which Chelius here alludes, which ■ may certainly he prevented by attention in properly dressing the wound, and the appli- cation of compresses, on any part where there is a disposition to bagging of the pus. As a general rule, it is also advisable to follow the roots of the tumour, should they spread i out as they occasionally do; but sometimes this cannot be managed without doing mischief,- by disturbing important parts; it is then best to tear through these roots, as far in as possible, and usually in the course of the cure they suppurate and disappear.—J. F. S.]' X. OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. ( Twmores cystici, sacculi, tunicati, Cystides, Lupin, Spc., Lat.; Balgyeschwiilste, Sackge- schwulste, Germ.; Tumeurs enkyst/fes, Fr.) Sai.zmann, De quibusdam Tumoribus tunicatis eXternis. Argent, 1719 ; in Hallers Disputationes Chirurgicae, vol. v. p. 383. Girard, Lupiologie, ou Traite' sur les Tumeurs connues sous le nom de Loupes. Paris, 1775. Chopart, Essaies -sur les Loupes; in Prix de I’Academie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. 274. Chambon, Memoire sur les Loupes; in Prix de 1’Acad, de Chir., vol. v. p. 332. Jacobson, (Preside Loder,) Dissert, de Tumoribus cysticis. Jen®, 1792. Loder, Ueber die Balggeschwhlste ; in Chirurg.-Medic. Beobachtungen, vol. i. p. 20ft- Weimar, 1794. Bichat, Traite de Membranes, p. 181. New Edition by Hasson. Paris. 1816. Jaeger, M., Ueber Balggeschwulste ; from the Encyclopaidische lYbrterbuch der Medic. Wissenchaft, vol. iv. p. 634. Berlin, 1830. 2248. Encysted Tumours are swellings developed in the cellular tissue of the skin, or in the interstitial cellular tissue of other parls, and characterized by a proper membrane being formed, in the cavity of which there is a secretion of a peculiar substance. That this membrane does not i result from expansion and thickening of the cellular tissue, but must be * considered as a new formation, which, in reference to its nature and its vital peculiarities, agrees with serous membranes, lias been clearly shown by Bichat. The circumstance, that a cyst is formed around foreign substances accidently introduced into the body, does not controvert this t opinion : as this cyst, manifestly originating from pressure on the cellular t tissue, is not a peculiar secreting organ. Meckel (b) may be consulted in opposition to the opinion advanced by Adams that all encysted tumours are to be considered as animals of the lowest kina. wit, as hydatids. , toHs r(l) With reference to the formation of cysts around foreign substance!S ■ . ^ /.A mnnho nf it oc an ovnmtilo ** nf ilopnor cuntml nnrfs 11 ot SO rOtldilV Hunter (d) speaks of it as an example (rt) Schregkr, above cited. (/,) HandbucU dr vol. ii. part '!• P- 1® HandbucU der Pathologischen Anatomic of the deeper seated parts not so readily ' (c) Observations on the Cancerous Breast- don, 1801. 8vo. t (4) On the Blood, Inflammation, *»•