574 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; button-ended bistoury, or by Belmas’s buttoned bistoury, introduced c the volar surface of the forefinger, which is to be done rather by pressin U the bistoury on, than by a stroke. The operator then grasps the hand itN of the arrow sound with the right hand, and sinks it, so that the other en v rises up immediately behind the pubic symphysis, and lifts up the froi wall of the bladder like a hillock into the wound ; the left finger alreadq-i in the wound at the same time directing the movement of the beak of tb > sound, and pressing back the peritonaeum. The beak of the sound, wit . the portion of bladder covering it, is now fixed with the thumb and fort i finger of the left hand, and the arrow of the sound pushed out hy a assistant. A straight bistoury is then thrust upon the groove of th: 1 arrow, and the front wall of the bladder cut through from above down'ol wards, the forefinger of the left hand quickly introduced through thif fi wound into the bladder, and its volar surface being directed upwards, am, p the finger crooked seizes the upper angle of the wound in the bladder, am: ,* holds the bladder in a position corresponding to the external wound. I , the wound in the bladder do not answer to the size of the stone, it must b- « enlarged with a button-ended bistoury downwards, towards the neck of tb ji bladder. If the fingers of the right hand cannot seize and draw out th ii stone, a pair of common stone-forceps may be introduced into the bladders with which it is easily caught and pulled out, and which may also, i necessary, be assisted by introducing the finger into the rectum. The two most important accidents which may occur in cutting for the stone abort I the pubes, to wit, wounding the peritonaeum, and dropping down of the bladder, at the ‘ moment it is cut into, have led to various modes of proceeding in reference to cutting t through the coverings and the bladder. Franco, with his finger introduced into the rectum, pressed the stone against the back i of the white line, and cut directly upon it. Rousset distended the bladder with a mile £ fluid to such an extent as to raise it above the pubes, and bring it near the wall of the t belly. Douglas, Ghkselden, and Morand, increased the size and resistance ol i the bladder, by injecting only moderately, as a greater distension is very painful,- and often not possible. Frere Come, instead of injection, used the dart sound (a), which he introduced ( through a cut previously made in the membranous part of the urethra into the bladder. Loder (£>) objected to this previous cut iu the perinceum, and passed the arrow sound through the urethra into the bladder; and the same practice was followed by Zang and Home. Zang further advises that the patient should per- I fectly discharge his urine before the operation ; and for the purpose of effecting this more certainly, a small quantity of decoction of mallows may be injected* through the catheter into the bladder, and afterwards allowed to escape. Then, if the patient can bear it, a tolerable quantity of the same decoction may be injected gradually into the bladder, which being thus distended, separates the peritonaeum more from the upper edge of the pubic symphi/sis, and saves it from injury. The penis must be tied till the bladder is exposed, and then the dart sound introduced through the urethra. Scarpa gives the dart sound a large sweep and a deep groove, and dips the bistoury a line and a half from its tip into the bladder, more certainly to pre- ; vent its slipping off the sound. The large curve of Frere Come’s dart sound easily f permits its beak to be thrust against the upper part of the bladder, and by its move- j ment against the pubic s/mpht/sis, the drawing away also of the peritonaeum, for ; which purpose Belmas makes the curve of his instrument shorter and greater, and the further alteration that the heak of the instrument is furnished with a button end, can , be protruded further, so that as soon as it is properly introduced into the bladder, the arrow may he pushed forwards. Dzondi uses, as had been done previously by Rousset and Sermes, a catheter grooved on its concave side, which is very safe, if the < knife be dipped some lines before the point of the catheter into the bladder. I.ebot d’Etjoli.e has recommended, for raising the bladder, an instrument similar to Hecb- I (n) This is n sound of which the tip enn lie projected bv a stilette, and is called by the trench t Sonde a third, and hy the Germans P/ei.sunde. (b) Kohi.eb’s Anleitung rum Verbandc, p-4“- j