682 FORMATION OF TUBERCLE IN BONE. invaded by the tubercle, instead of being crowded together by it, are destroyed as it w by a punch. These tubercular collections have an extent varying from two to th lines in diameter, up to fifteen and twenty; they are generally not very numerous, i it is very common to find only one pretty large one, and many of small dimeusio When a tubercle is developed in a bone, its periosteum becomes more vascular, as a the bone at the point nearest the accidental production. This vascularity is soon t lowed by the deposition of layers of newly-formed bone; besides, tubercles develuj near the extremity of a bone, open more easily into the cavity of the joint than on surface of the bone ; and this may be imagined, inasmuch as having traversed the ent < primitive bony tissue, the tubercle has still to traverse the bony layers of new fort tion, whilst towards the joint no such analogous obstacle is met with. 3. Softened tubercles {Tubercules ramollis.)—The more slowly the matter contain in the cyst softens, and so soon as the softening operates regularly from the centre to t circumference, so soon does it proceed from one part of the periphery to propagate its to the whole mass. 4. Elimiiiari/ process {Travail d''elimination.)—The collection of tubercular mat proceeds then like a true abscess, which having reached the skin, inflames and per rates it, and gives vent to a grumous liquid, consisting of white, cheesy flakes, suspend in a turbid serosity. When all the matter is voided, a fistula remains, which da: furnishes a varying quantity of serous pus. 5. Reparatory process ( Travail reparateur.)—At the end of a period of very varial length, if the patient can stand against the abundant suppurations, a tendency to cn is manifested; the cyst acquires considerable increase, thickens, hypertrophies to t extent of entirely filling up the cavity which it lines, and ends in presenting cot pletely the appearance of fibro-medullary tissue. The termination of this affecti( is not always so fortunate; it may, however, be stated in a general way, that t disease tends much more towards a cure according as its primitive seat is near the skin. B. Tubercular Infiltration embraces three different states of the bone: 1. Gray infiltration (Infiltration prise.)—The bony parts which are affected presei- in all the points which contain this tuberculous matter, spots of a grayish, opalin slightly rosy tint, and semitransparent, formed by the deposit in the cells of the bor- tissue, of a substance analogous in appearance to encephaloid substance; the circuit ference, instead of being lost insensibly, is suddenly bounded by a change of colour. E the aid of a lens these spots are seen traversed with blood-vessels of very great delicac and sometimes by a very well-marked circle of injection. The density of the bon tissue is neither increased nor diminished. 2. Purulent infiltration (Infiltration purulente.)—The infiltrated matter assumes, afk a longer or shorter time, a pale yellow tint, and becomes completely opaque; it is at fir pretty firm, but is not delayed in gradually softening; soon is it entirely fluid an puriform ; these collections are always very precisely bounded, as are the spots alread mentioned. When the infiltration has reached this period the blood-vessels disnppeai the bony tissue undergoes an interstitial hypertrophy, without the bulk of the bon being increased; the little cells are narrowed, and almost completely obliterated, an the cellular tissue of the bone is then as it were like ivory. _ 3. Sequestration of the affected part (Sequestration de la partie aff'ectee.)—WnW the bone lias undergone the modifications just mentioned, it exhibits all the character of a true sequester ; there is neither vessel nor any indication of remaining life: beside* a circle of elimination is formed around the infiltrated portions, and the sequestratioi runs through the whole series of phenomena characterizing necrosis ; abscesses, fistulas abundant suppuration, and so on, are the inevitable result. In some instances necrosi evidently exists, but its separation is long delayed. It sometimes happens that ti necrosed part is detached by little fragments, and in the cyst which forms around tn abscess a quantity more or less considerable of bone, like sand, is observed. On a other hand, this purulent infiltration is often propagated to neighbouring Parts’ attacks a large extent of bony tissue; these cysts are rarely so limited as in enejs • tubercle, anu it is not very uncommon to see a consecutive and accidental e®w developed not in the part primarily infiltrated, but in the bony tissue which surrounds ^ £ A