790 TUMOURS IN THE BREAST disposed of itself to inflame, without further excitement. And indeed the Surgeon has sufficient to do to keep the inflammation under; for I have seen, in two or three • $ instances, when a small milk-swelling has been merely punctured, such inflammation occur, that the skin covering it has quickly run into gangrene, and instead of one, three * & or four holes leading to the cavity, and subsequent troublesome sinuses, and a spoiled £ breast. The only treatment necessary, is a free puncture and soothing poultices, with purging, to lessen or get rid of the secretion of milk entirely, which keeps up irritation, and by its constant flow prevents the adhesion of the walls of the cavity.—J. F. S.] 2453. Scrofulous tumours in the breast may be easily taken for scirrhus, t and even when they have gone into ulceration they greatly resemble can- cerous ulcers. The age of the patient, the general signs of scrofulous ■ 4 disease, and especially the circumstance that usually several, often a very , n great many, of these little swellings may be felt in the breast, should < direct the practitioner. The treatment consists in the employment of anti-scrofulous and such f remedies as improve the constitution, regularity of living, and the appli- p cation of dispersing plasters and rubbing. 2454. Herpetic and psoric affections around the nipple can produce ■ *1 swelling of the nipple, and even of part of the breast-gland, and by the i spreading of the ulceration, may cause considerable destruction. The origin ;r of the disease, the general state of health, and the above-mentioned {par. a 153) mode of treatment, are the foundation of the diagnosis. 2455. Encysted tumours in the cellular tissue of the gland of the breast are often very difficult to distinguish from scirrhus, especially when the cyst is very hard and firm. The marks of distinction are, the encysted a tumour has no string-like connexions as scirrhus has, it is more defined, rounder, firm and elastic, or distinctly fluctuating, according to the thick- i ness of the cyst. If the cyst be thin, and the tumour near the skin, the latter has a bluish colour. The general health remains undisturbed; the swelling is free from pain, unless there be any disposition to suppuration in the sac. When the fluid is emptied it is transparent as water, with a slightly-yellow colour. The avails of the cavity often consist of a pretty . thick fibrous capsule, on the inner surface of which are red fungous ex- crescences of different size. Only large tumours of this kind need extirpation; smaller ones, with a thin cyst, may be punctured, and by the introduction of a slip of linen, adhesive inflammation, and adhesion of the sac, or its throwing off by sup-1 j puration, may be effected (a). 2456. I consider that state of the breast-gland, commonly known as vesicular scirrhus, or carcinoma mamma hydatidcs, as a steatoniatous degeneration of the gland. The breast-gland, in such cases, forms a I very projecting tumour, the greater diameter of which is not at the Mj*®> I where it is connected with the chest, but at some distance from it. * ' form of this swelling is not globular, but quadrangular, at some parw more, at others less prominent. The nipple is not drawn in, but pro* j minent, and of the natural appearance. At some parts the swelling _ hard, at others tense and clastic, and even distinctly fluctuating. veins on the surface are larger, the swelling movable in every ffircc >°^ It may acquire enormous size, and exist many years before it buI* jp(i reaches the arm-pit glands. In one case which I saw in an unma person, thirty years old, neither one nor the other had happened• swelling can easily be separated. The result of the operation is a (a) Chemus ; in Iieidcib. Medic. Annalen, vol. i.