317 OF THE MOUTH. treatment are the best. A thick strip of the entire soft parts, down to n mucous membrane, which must be left uninjured, is to be cut from the •Juth at one or both sides; for which purpose, the pointed blade of a 'tjr of sharp scissors thrust into the corner of the mouth is carried to •jne extent between the soft parts of the cheek and the mucous mem- ,tne, and the cheek cut through to the part where the angle of the mouth o be formed. From the lower corner of the mouth, a cut parallel to former is connected by a short circular cut. The.piece of skin thus cumscribed, is now to be completely separated from the mucous mem- me, and afterwards the other side similarly treated. When the bleeding stanched, the lower jaw must be much depressed, by which the exposed icous membrane will be considerably stretched, and must then be larated for a few lines from the membrane of the cheek, and divided the middle, but not so far as the corner of the mouth. After stanching > blood and closing the wound, the mucous membrane must be drawn t over its edges, and the edges of the membrane connected around with e needles and the twisted suture. The mucous membrane folds op- site the middle of the lip which has not been disturbed. The part the mucous membrane not cut through should be well drawn out at rners. he bloodless expansion of the mouth with sponge-tent, and the like, is useless, ■rizontal cuts on either side, as formerly recommended for widening the mouth, are vailing, inasmuch as they always re-unite, and the person’s condition is worse, practice of Kruger-Hansen (a), who, after Rodtorffer’s statement in reference nited fingers, {par. 1555,) made an opening with a trocar into a mouth half closed a callous scar, at the point where its boundary was to be fixed, in which he allowed fl :aden thread to remain till the part had skinned over, after which the remaining cut 3 made, is tedious, uncertain, and produces a callous aperture for the mouth. 0 1590. If with narrowing of the mouth there be such loss of substance in lips, that the teeth are exposed, and the jaws cannot be separated from ch other, and in which often the small opening of the mouth is dragged il ion the cheek, the deformity can be only somewhat improved, and the 1 tient’s condition alleviated, after careful examination of the peculiarity the case, by cutting out the hard scar, loosening the attachment to the 4 lvs» drawing over the skin, and the like. r. Compare also an interesting case of a similar operation of Dieffenbach’s (6). VII.—OF NARROWING OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Bleuland, Observationes anatomico-medicce de Sana et morbosa (Esophagi structura. lgd. Batav., 1769. Von Geuns, M., in Verhandelingen uytgegeeven doorHoll. Maatschappy der Wetens- ■' iappen, vol. xi. Haarlem, 1769. Kunze, A. G., Commentatio pathologica de Dysphagia. Lips., 1820. Home, Everard, Practical Observations on the Treatment of Strictures in the ™ a a".- ,(EsoPhagus. vol. i.p. 536. London, 1805 ; Third Edition, vol. i. p. 395 ; •cond Edition, London, 1821. ” ’ BPtWeHER, Robert, Medico-Chirurgical Notes and Illustrations on some dangerous • J c s of the Throat; on Strictures of the (Esophagus, &c. London, 1831. 4to. Mondiere ; in Archives generates de Medecine, vol. xxv. p. 58. 1831. Appia, Dissert, de Stricturis (Esophagi. Heidelberg®, 1842. '' •tmah^vol’ YeptCri?ie Behandlungder Stricturen des (Esophagus; in Heidelberg. Medic. («) VON Orakfe und Walther’s Journal, vol. iv. p. 513. (6) Erfahrungen, sect. Hi. p. 110.