115 PROLAPSE WITH INVERSION OF WOMB. ve stitches. A compress of lint, and a f bandage were applied, and the parts kept ijjol with cold water. The sponge which had been introduced to keep up the womb 111 adhesion'had taken place, was generally removed about the fifth or sixth day; and , ie sutures were taken out, as the parts seemed to have united.] 1282. For the purpose of holding the labia together, and thereby pre- tenting prolapse, a hinge ring, about the size of a large earring, should je used ; it is to be drawn through the lower part of both labia and closed, .) that it may lie in the region of the frcmulum (a). i 1283. An old prolapse oftentimes cannot be returned without causing tiixiety, pain in the belly, costiveness, and other symptoms (b). In this jise, the womb must be supported with a bandage, and care must be taken t>r the proper emptying of the bladder and rectum (1). If the completely golapsed womb be so changed by disease, as for example, by schirrus, t iat its removal is indicated, this must be effected by the ligature (2) or incision; the latter at least has been done successfully, by Langen- ,eck(c) (3). [(O When, in consequence of the altered position of the bladder often attending pro- pse of the womb, the urine cannot be voided, and it becomes necessary to introduce catheter, the altered direction of the urethra must not be forgotten ; and according to e directions of Cruveilbiee, the instrument must be directed downwards and .ckwards wnh its concavity downwards, and thus it “first enters the displaced .rt of the bladder and is afterwards raised by a lever-like movement into that portion it still remaining in its natural situation” (d). 3,),ThC rerJ1"'Tal of a prolapsed schirrous womb was efFected with the ligature by frt '™ “d MaRJOL1n i ^ut the woman died from some cause independent of the j • TELHIRR’. ^ mentions this case (e), objects to the treatment as bein- compamed with great risk of including a portion of the bladder in the ligature He T^ndh \n Preference, cutting through the back of the vagina, into ^doubling of ntoneum between it and the rectum, then drawing the womb through the aperture an taching it from its cellular connexions with the bladder. S P wn semrateTfrom^^6^11011’the-Tmb’ after cuttinS across the vagina, was drawn imall portion of its fund^'^ II. OF PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB WITH INVERSION rrolapsus ^^minverdone, Lat.; Vorfalle der Gebdrmutter mit Umstulpuna [ Germ.; Chute et Renversement cle la Matrice, Fr.) 1 ’ ■ |5abatier, above cited, p. 375. •Sto"Mi!tate?,1’l8U4''°n ^ UmkehrU”g 0der eigentlichen, in version der ' Ierzog, E. B., Dissert, de inversione uteri. Wirceb., 1817. ' SrwS ^toi^nof^^cce8sfMee^rnatt'0mS’f^nUSeS’ and Treatment of Inversio the disease. London, 1818. P °f that orSan (lul'ing the chronic stage •he Ne Series, ^p.’ 285^1 sih.^vo5. “ Tran8’ «Uhe*oSiigedloZ0f7t1’7yndthe'TTh withI™™on is under- I’ down ?f the {liZw-l T'h i"‘° its ond eve"protrusion at b 10-M, (rf) Livr. xxvi. p. 2. (O Livr. xvi. p. 4.