14 CONSEQUENCES OF STRANGULATION. colic, the symptoms come on more quickly, the rupture although tense is little or not painful, often changes its form, becomes larger, and again smaller ; the pain shifts its place, subsides and returns ; the evacuation of the bowels ceases; the patient generally does not vomit often, only after some drinks, whilst others he retains ; the pulse is small, contracted, and inegular; the urine generally pale ; the respiration difficult; the symptoms often quickly attain a great height, but again subside. Inflammation super- venes earlier or later upon the symptoms above mentioned, and it is there- fore necessary to be very careful not to be deceived by the symptoms of slight inflammation, and to consider it as consequent on spasmodic affection. 1140. If the strangulation be not relieved, sloughing of the confined part is to be feared, and so much the more as the strangulation and inflam- mation are severe. The parts enclosed in the rupture are often gangrenous, without the external parts presenting any such change. But usually on the occurrence of gangrene the swelling loses its elasticity and painfulness, the skin becomes bluish-black'at several places, emphysematous, and the epidermis separates ; the painfulness of the belly and the vomiting cease ; the powers sink ; the pulse becomes small and irregular ; cold sweats cover the limbs and face of the patient; the features are altered ; the ideas become confused ; the swelling bursts and discharges very offensive stool. Most commonly gangrene is the forerunner of death, the patient, however, may under these circumstances recover, the sloughy part of the intestine sepa- rates, and its remaining extremities adhering to the peritoneum, form an artificial anus. 1141. If the omentum alone be strangulated, the symptoms are generally not so severe, because it can more easily bear compression in proportion, as its structure is not already changed. The inflammation, however, spreads from the constricted part to the other intestines. Although the relief of the bowels be not suppressed, yet belching and vomiting occur. The constricted omentum may pass into suppuration and gangrene (1). Suppu- ration is an uncommon result; an abscess may form above the constricted part which may empty itself into the belly. Sloughing often occurs without any great effect upon the general condition of the patient; the sloughy part separates, and the remaining part adheres to the opening. [(1) Key (a) makes a very important remark in reference to strangulated omental rup- ture, which, however, I do not remember to have observed; he says:—“ When from the nature of the symptoms the case appears to be merely an omental hernia, the operation must not be hastily proposed, for it is not easy to distinguish between inflammation of omentum which has been irreducible, and strangulation; for the inflamed state of the omentum without strangulation, the operation will afford no relief; on the contrary, it will aggra- vate the inflammation. It is highly advisable, therefore, to try the effects of active general depletion, and the application of leeches to the part, under which treatment the symptoms will often disappear. The result of operations on omental hernia, which have been attended by acute symptoms, as great tenderness of the part, continued sickness, tense and tender belly, has been such as to induce me to try every means of allaying the inflammatory action before resorting to the operation. The operation, in the cases that have come under my notice, has not suspended the symptoms, as it generally does in enterocele, but the patient has sunk within a few hours from the effects of the inflam- mation.” (p. 36, note.)] 1142. The treatment of ruptures differs according to the different circum- stances under which they are met with, namely, reducible or irreducible, strangulated or gangrenous. 1143. In reducible ruptures the indication is to reduce the protruded 00 A. CoorKH, above cited.