33 NOT ALWAYS CEASING AFTER REDUCTION, a few leeches; some medicine was given, which was rejected; he continued vomiting during the day, had not any relief from the bowels, and suffered pain in his belly? Next morning the rupture was reduced and a truss applied, but removed two hours after, as it was too large. During the day he was relieved of the pain, but vomiting occurred five or six times, and especially on attempting to take anything into his stomach. Towards 8 p.m. the swelling reappeared, about half the former size- the vomiting became more frequent, and the pain in his belly increased. Dec. 3, 2 a.m.—He was bled nearly to fainting, and the rupture returned ■ a cold mixture in a bladder was applied (for what reason did not appear) to the region of the swelling, and replaced continually as it became warm. The vomiting, constipation and pain continuing, he was brought to the hospital at ipast 3 p.m.—He was immediately put in the warm bath, where I examined him but even when standing up could only observe a slight fulness in the right groin’ probably from the leeches, and very deeply a small indistinct swelling not exceeding the sl.“of, a sma11 bean> between the abdominal rings ; it neither dilated on coughing nor yielded to pressure. I could pass my finger readily into the external ring. His bellv was full and tympanitic, and he complained of pain and tenderness specially about the hypogastric region. 1 he pulse was small and quick; but he had not anvanxietv of countenance. I could not feel satisfied of the existence of a rupture, and therefore ordered five grains of calomel and an injection of infusion of senna and salts, which hZielSy ’ “ mJeCtl0n castor oil in the course of the evening returned 11 p.m. 1 made another careful examination, in consultation with my friend Cali wat, and I thought I felt a slight gurgling, but very doubtful; it Juki not bffelt if “j ancl both were satisfied that the swelling was merely the spermatic cord We therefore ordered a gram of calomel, and half a grain of opium every W with a mTr lnjectl0a immediately; and thirty leeches to the belly, with subsequent fomentations, considering his attack to be peritoneal and enteritic 7 sequent JJec. 4. The bowels continued obstinately costive throughout the whole day except *>?h?>™. rr producing only a small thin motion, the second dose ™ g “en 1^“ “* T"' "d ™”i,ed - **3 as* ,Uiet'"'i h0urs ««* b»ad and is Iheoxfui; "d SersScdi« tjr r*shmnk—«-m. b„, he AteXt s sfSPr ™ application of the »„S„„ T T" Soon after the continued frequentl} till evening, when I ordered aCJ~Sme!llng t!uid recurred, and excess of alkali, but without benefit Ji*id “ efferyescing mixture, with large light and following day, not being at Jl ch JkeTbv'J COnti.nued thr°«gb the whole icid, with compound spirits of tCked by two minim doses of hydrocyanic ^ ** Untouched >hor every four hou^U. a Varge'lHist'eTovL™lbdr™*’T'**1 ?VC grains of «»n- ni8. • No motion since noon yesterday- ,ij'hole be.Uy> and.a coiocynth injection. x.t°C ;u eraiQ of so,id t xza taring hid any reUef from lire “ ’0lnil slnce tits last report, and not VOL. II, D