CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE 586 Such are Cheselden’s own words, and the only difference between the operation4s 1740 and Dr. James Douglas’s description is that it is more explicit; and, in his prefe; he says:—“I am obliged to Mr. Cheselden for the chief materials of this pap it was impossible to draw it up to good purpose without him; and since he has been v j kind as to communicate to me, with the greatest readiness and without reserve all particulars which I could not otherwise have come to the knowledge of, I amco: ii dent, that none will pretend to dispute but what I here describe is his operation, and * whole operation.” The following is the important part of Douglas’s description of i r operation of Cheselden’s fifth edition:—After having detailed the first incision, Lii says that Cheselden “ having cut the fat pretty deep, especially near the intestin M rectum, covered by the sphincter and levator ani, he puts the forefinger of his left hand i. fcu the wound, and keeps it there till the internal incision is quite finished; first to dir4 < the point of his knife into the groove of his staff, which he now feels with the end l'» his finger, and likewise to hold down the intestinum rectum, by the side of which i; I knife is to pass, and so prevent its being wounded. This inward incision is made w ■ j more caution and more leisure than the former. His knife first enters the groove of t << s rostrated or straight part of his catheter, through the sides of the bladder, immediati i '* above the prostata, and afterwards the point of it continuing to run in the same grocit % in a direction downwards and forwards, or towards himself, he divides that part of t! • sphincter of the bladder that lies upon that gland, and then he cuts the outside of c | i half of it obliquely, according to the direction and whole length of the urethra tl * runs within it, and finishes his internal incision by dividing the muscular portion of 11 >: urethra on the convex part of his staff. When he first began to practise this method, ! ij cut the very same parts the contrary way ; that is, his knife entered first the muscul -J part of the urethra, which he divided laterally from the pendulous part of its bulb to b e j apex, or first point of the prostate gland, and from thence directed his knife upward a ; a backward all the way into the bladder ; as we may read in the Appendix he lately pu | lished to the fourth edition of his Book of Anatomy. But some time after he observe J that in that manner of cutting, the bulb of the urethra lay too much in the way; 11 | groove of the staff was not so easily found, and the intestinum rectum was in mo danger of being wounded.” (pp. 12, 13.) In further proof of the correctness of Douglas’s statement, Sharp (a), in speakiiet of RaCs operation for the stone, and Cheselden’s first mode of proceeding in 1 ; lateral operation of 1730, says :—“ After this unsuccessful trial, Mr. Cheselden mat use of the following method, which is now the practice of most English operators. Tl patient being laid on a table, &c. This (the external) wound must be carried on deep between the muscles, till the prostate can be felt, when searching for the staff and fixii. t it properly if it has slipped, you must turn the edge of the knife upwards, and cut U whole length of that gland from within outwards, at the same time pushing down tl rectum with a finger or two of the left hand, by which precautions the gut will alwa; escape wounding.” (pp. 99,100.) And in contrast with this, speaking of “ the old way,) which the urethra only is wounded about two inches on this side the prostate, and tl instruments are forced through the rest of the passage, which is composed of the bulboi part of the urethra, the membranous part of the urethra, the neck of the bladder, an the prostate gland,” he observes :—“ It is pity, the operators do not in the old way alwaj slide the knife, along the groove of the staff till they have quite wounded through th length of the prostate.” (pp. 104, 105.) The remainder of the operation, as described in the fifth edition, are Cues ELDS' own words :—“ And then passing the gorget very carefully in the groove of the staff wt the bladder, bear the point of the gorget hard against the staff observing all the whil that they do not separate, and let the gorget slip to the outside of the bladder : then pass the forceps into the right side of t he bladder, the wound being on the left side o the perinceum; and as they pass, carefully attend to their entering the bladder, which i known by their overcoming a straitness, which there will be in the place of th' wound ; then taking care to push them no further, that the bladder may not be hurt I first feel for the stone with the end of them, which having felt, I open the forceps an* slide one blade underneath it, and the other at the top; auu if I apprehend the stone t not in the right place of the forceps, I shift it before I offer to extract, and then extrac it very deliberately, that it may not slip suddenly out of the forceps, and that the j of the wound may have time to stretch, taking great care not to gripe it so hard as < break it; and if I find the stone very large, I again cut upon it, as it is held m t forceps. Here I must take notice, it is very convenient to have the bladder emP -. urine before the operation; for if there is any quantity to flow out of the bladder at (n) Treatiso on the Operations of Surgery. London, 1751. Sixth Edition.