THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. 440 interfering with the operation, and should be held by assistants. Th face should be turned from the operator, or covered with a thin cloth. 1834. To prevent the protrusion of the intestines through the wound j | the walls of the belly, moderate pressure with the hands is usually en ^ ployed. Auterieth proposes the previous introduction of ligatures befoi m the womb is opened, and Rietgen, a girdle of plaster. G-raefe more pr< a perly makes well-regulated pressure with three sponges, each a foot lonj 11 six inches wide, and three inches thick, held by assistants, so that a spac. fl about eight inches long, and from three to four wide, is left clear, j I intestines be found between the womb and the wall of the belly, which nia be ascertained by the yielding elastic condition of the latter, they must fc ij first thrust back by gentle pressure, till a convex, unyielding firm hard bod*; be felt in every direction. At the very moment when the last part of th child escapes, the sponges must be more firmly pressed, by the assistant;, i 1835. The seat and direction of the cut has been variously proposed. First. The Lateral Cut, on the side where there is the greatest promt nence of the belly, or, directly opposite it (a), by the side of the white line; more or less distant from it, in or near the m. rectus abdominis, between the navel and the pubic bones, and a little obliquely from above down wards and outwards (b). Second. The Cut in the ivliite line, beginning from above or below th i navel, to an inch and a half or two inches above the pubic symphysis (cm Third. The Transverse Cut, upon the side, where the womb is mos prominent between the m. rectus and the spinal column, and between th. false ribs and the crest of the hip-bone, above or below the navel (d). Fourth. The Oblique or Diagonal Cut, the direction of which is fron ! the extremity of the lowest false rib to the horizontal branch of the pubit bone of the other side, obliquely across the white line, so that the middli of the cut falls immediately upon it (e). 1836. The choice and direction of the cut, with its accompanying ad- vantages, are not in general determinate, but must be guided by the par- ticular circumstances of the case, especially by the position and direction ot the womb, the pretty well known seat of the placenta, the position of the child, the size of the space between the navel and the pubic symphysis, and the like. As the placenta is most usually on the right side, though it may. be also on the left, preference has been given to the cut on the left side rather than to that on the white line. In this cut the outer and inner walls are parallel, all fluids escape more readily from the wound; the wall of the belly is at this part thinnest; in opening it no blood vessel is wounded, and the healing of the wound in the linea alba is as quick as in any other part of the wall of the belly. In the diagonal cut the womb, after the operation, contracts so that the wound in it does not gape. The same also happens with the oblique cut; in it, however, the wall of the belly is cut through at its thickest part, and vessels are wounded. "That part is to be specially con- sidered as the best where the womb and the child can be most distinctly felt. 1837. The operation consists of the following steps :—-first, the opening (а) Mir.lot, Observation sur l'Operation dite Cesarienne, faite avec sticces. Paris, 1796. Obser- vations sur les Causes et les Accidens de plusieurs Accouchemens laborieux. Paris, 1750. Svo. Se- cond Edition. (б) Rousset, above cited. — Levret, Observa- tions sur les Causes et les Accidens de plusieurs Accouchemens laborieux. Nouv. Edit. Paris, 1780. 8vo.—Stein, Abhandlung von der Kaisergeburt. (c) GuEhin, Histoire de deux Operations Ces«- riennes. Paris, 1750.—Baudelocqvk, L'Art <■<* Accouchemens, vol. ii. Paris, 1807.—D*Ltc*'E‘ Observations sur l’Operation Cesarienne a la iign blanche. Paris. 1788. (d) Lauvkrjat, Nouvclle Methodede prattqu l’Operation Cesarienne. Paris, 1188. (r) Stein, Geburtshiillliche Abhandlunge , vol. i p. 125.