623 LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. lerefrom the results of both must necessarily be judged. In the ollation of such results, in great number and for a length of time, the i ro^ressive improvements in the operations of lithotomy and lithotrity k uist be also well considered. Only in reference to these different circum- ances can it be comprehended, how the results which have been collected k -om a great number of cases of lithotomy, have been more favourable ian those of lithotrity (perforation) ; and how the results of percussion, Heuhteloup,) though by far more favourable than those exhibited by ie earlier ones of perforation, and of cutting, have nevertheless been iurpassed by the results which individual operators have obtained with ie knife. 2135. If the possible evils which may occur in and after lithotomy and thotrity be compared, they are found to have a certain degree of equality ; to their number and danger ; only that in lithotomy, the wound specially gives rise to symptoms which in lithotrity are absent, whilst ie latter occasions considerable irritation of the bladder, and dangerous mptoms resulting therefrom. The possible evils resulting from lithotomy are bleeding, wound of ie rectum, of the seminal vesicles and their excretory ducts, and of the ’ep pelvic aponeurosis; subsequently, bleeding, infiltration of urine, ;travasation into the scrotum, inflammation of the cellular tissue of the »:;;lvic cavity, inflammation of the peritonceum, of the bladder, of the pros- ™ le and of the veins, urinary fistula, impotence, and incontinence of urine. The possible evils from lithotrity are violent pain and nervous mptoms, especially in very sensitive persons, inflammation of the urinary issages, of the prostate, and of the testicle; in rare cases, tearing of the ucous membrane of the bladder, perforation of the bladder, inflamma- m of the veins ; further, retention of urine, infiltration of urine, urinary tula, breaking of the instruments in the bladder (1), and recurrence of ane (2). [(1) In the event of lithotritic instruments being broken or bent in the bladder, so it they could not otherwise be removed, Liston says“ I had determined, should I . with any case of the kind, to pull forward the instrument as far as possible, so as to mg the sliding blade (of the percuteur) into close contact with the anterior walls of : bladder, and these with the anterior aspect of the symphysis, then to push down the 'us upon its stalk, and protect the plans with a piece of split card or stron" leather ■ : instrument was then to be seized with a hand-vice, and cut through as low as Bsible, by the use of good files; this can be done within two inches and a half of the hte‘; *ire T?U!1 tben no difficulty iu pushing the blades containing the stone •f‘tether!” Commencement of the urethra> and cutting them out ill!! U »ay, be Said’,” observes Bhodie, “ that haemorrhage is one of the incon- rffS"1 °n *he °Peratl0n of lithotrity. It may arise from the forcible intro- C"2lthfe bthotrity-forceps through the neck of the bladder, where the prostate "land thdTa£tT 7ged’ 0r l0m jht“ di!:rtation of the prostate and urethra in the act of ■the cnlbl 6 /°rrpS’t lrex.bl‘ldes are charged witb a considerable accumulation £ ,re £ 1 dr “ T ^ The !?88 of blood’ for the most Part> does not amount to our the nrilr/ P ! but ™ s°me ^stances, I have known it to be sufficient to dis- Iher l oT °ne 0r W? dayS afterwards. * * * The occurrence of rigors is .t a " S qUfi?Ce of bthotrity, in some instances. I have already mentioned B jcera"&W1S y p™ducud by the stretching of the urethra, at thelime of the I SbyTh8elSron fT blardde''’ and thatl in most ^stances, it may be pre % operation. mptorn however'mimeuiateiy alter the operation. This a,l„s findh." he 7 -T S°m oth,er causes; as, for example, from a fragment of •f ssure ofieSs?eryJ -tbC which is 100 largc to be expelled by the e stream of urine. And it sometimes happens, that the effect of a dose