AMPUTATION THROUGH THE TIIIGII. 906 extremity, not a single case was lost. This excess of mortality in operating after acci dents, is to be ascribed, when the patients die early, to the conjoined shock of the acci- dent and operation. Besides which the persons admitted into hospitals for such injuries are commonly free livers with broken down constitutions, the like of whom are not' unfrequently destroyed by the results of trivial accidents, which run either into ery sipelas, or diffuse cellular inflammation and gangrene.—J. F. S.J Third Section.—OF AMPUTATION IN CONTINUITY OF THE SEVERAIi] LIMBS. I.—OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE THIGH. (.Amputalio Femoris, Lat.; Amputation oder Ablosung der Oberschenhels, Germ.; Amputation de la Cuisse, Fr.) 2711. In amputating through the thigh, the circular, or flap cut mayjl be practised, the patient being so placed on a table covered with a mat- * tress, that the limbs extend freely beyond its edge, and the trunk be in a posture between sitting and lying. The sound limb should be supported; on a stool and held by one assistant. Another holds the diseased limb at the knee-joint in such way that the leg be bent at an obtuse angle towards; the thigh, which itself is a little bent on the groin (1). A third assistant compresses with his fingers or with a compressor, the femoral artery on the horizontal branch of the pubes (2). A fourth standing on the outside ' of the thigh, encircles it with both hands, and draws the skin well up so that there° shall be no folds (3) ; and a fifth gives the instruments to the operator (4). Compression of the artery by an assistant is preferable to the application of the tour- niquet, which can generally be only employed when the amputation is performed at the lower third of the thigh; and the place at which it must then be put on is the upper third of the thigh. , . .. . . JL , f(l) Except when the injury or disease is in the leg, this direction cannot be tot- lowed out; therefore, as, at least with us, the greater number of amputations through the thigh are performed for disease in the knee-joint, and that pary is commonly; fixed, or its slightest movement so agonizing when there is ulceration of its cartilages, that any change of its usual posture is not warrantable, the Surgeon must be con- tent with his assistant merely keeping the limb steady in any position it can be con- veniently held. Occasionally, indeed, the leg can only be held on a pillow, and not JM the soft parts have been cut through can the knee be grasped to steady the limb, wiius tlie bone is sawn. . , , (2) In pressing on the artery at the groin, a very common mistake is to press the vt ssei down into the thigh, by which it is thrust upon the muscles, and can only be compresSf bv great exertion on the part of the assistant, and with much unnecessary pam ' the patient. The pressure should always be a little inclined upwards towards belly, and then the artery can be thrust against the bone and with little effort. - of great importance, that the assistant who is intrusted with this serious charge, shouio be well up to his business; he should be well satisfied of the position of the vessel, an his capability of commanding it with ease and certainty, and not have to be f,,nr,~?S5 about for it during the course of the operation. Having determined this, it is not rig tb it the patient should be subjected to the pressure longer than absolutely neeaeur therefore having adjusted his hands, which is best done by placing one thumb on t vessS and the other above it, and grasping the sides of the thigh with both waits till the operation actually commences, and directly the knife touches the s fir(3)3 Thif assis’tanUs 'superfluous, as the operator can hmisclf better retract theskm to the extent he desires, by grasping the thigh with the whole of his left 1a^ m These preliminary directions may by some be considered superlluous, » j are very far6from so, as upon the thorough knowledge of the duty of each assistant,