174 CLUB-FOOT. can bear it. Objections, however, have been made to the operation, that in consequence of the often long-continued bent position of the leg, the joint surfaces in the knee are so much altered in form that they cannot retain their reacquired natural position, and consequently dislocation of the shin-bone backwards occurs (1). The operation is performed by pass- - inn- a phimosis-knife between the hamstring and the bone, or between it and the skin, taking care to avoid the peroneal artery and posterior hbidU nerve (2). , , , m Fercusson, of King’s College, informs me, that in two or three instances he has* , seen dislocation at the knee occur after division of the hamstrings for contracted knee, -v and has keen obliged to amputate the limb. (2) Stanley (a) operated on a case of contracted knees two years after paraplegia consequent on sleeping in a damp bed. “ Each knee-joint was immovably fixed in the state of extreme flexion ; the ham-strings were contracted and rigid; and the cellular a tissue around them had become indurated, and firmly agglutinated to the tendons,*, whereby their outline could not be distinctly traced. * * * To avoid all risk of 1 injuring the popliteal or peroneal nerve, he deemed it prudent to divide the rigid ham- sEs, and the surrounding indurated cellular tissue, by small subcutaneous incisions many times repeated in both limbs, applying after each operation the apparatus for extending the knee-joint.” By this proceeding, after many months, the joints slowly straightened, and became movable ; but, the action of the ankle-joints being impeded by the rigidity of the Achilles’ tendons, Stanley divided these, and afterwards the extensor tendon of each great toe, as it was rigid, and kept the toes constantly raised Warm baths and friction were employed for suppling the limbs, and, at the end of eighteen months, the case was perfectly cured.—J. F. S.J C.—OF CURVATURES OF THE FEET. 1369 The feet may be curved in various ways; thus, they may be* turned inwards (Vari) or outwards, ( Valgi,) or the sole of the foot and. the heel may be inclined so backwards and upwards, that the entire sole shall have the same direction as the leg, or the foot may be so drawn i forwards and upwards towards the shin-bone, that the point of the; heel alone touches the ground. The first kind of curvature .s called Club-foot; the second, Splay-foot; the third, Hoise-foot, and the fourth,. Heel or Hook-foot (Pied-bot calcairen of Scoutetten.) Duval (b) includes the various curvatures of the foot under the genera1 strephopodie, and distinguishes varus as strepliendopodie, valgus as strep/iexopodie, boree- ioot as strephocatopodie, its highest degree as strephypopodie, and heel-foot as str phanopodie. a.—OF CLUB-FOOT. (Varus, Lat.; Klumpfuss, Knollfuss, Germ.; Pied-bot, Ft.) —*i Sheldrake, Thomas, Observations on the Causes of Distortions of the Legs oft Children. London, 1794. Ibid A Practical Treatise on the Club-foot. London, 1798. H,, Bruckner, A., Ueber die Natur, Ursachen und Behaudlung der einwiirts gekrummteii' Fiisse. Gotha, 1796. 8vo. . , _ Naumburg, J. S., Abhandlung von der Beinkriimmung. Leipzig, 1.96. 8vo. Wantzel, J. M., Dissert, de talipedibus variis. Tubingie, 1798. . Scarpa, A., Memoria Chirurgica sui Piedi torti congenitidei Fancmlh, e Maniera di cohere fiesta Deformita. Pavia, 1817. Third Edition. 8io I Time Ueber Klumpfiisse und eine leichte und zweekmassige Heilung dorse I Leipzig und Marburg, 1806. 4to.; with copper-plates. (n't London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxv. p. 98. 1844. ((.) Kevue Medicale, 1818, Dec.