CHARACTERS OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. 721 . r nionlyhas a white brain-like nature; all the above-mentioned varieties, how- ■>ever, occur. Bone and periosteum are as above mentioned, {par. 2296.) 2300. The following are the characters of medullary fungus. The ■ » swelling is soft, elastic, and both during life and after death, yields a i delusive fluctuation to the touch; destruction at one part of the skin •f covering it, through which sprouts a fungus, loose, but little painful when :.f touched, and bleeding readily ; the edges of the skin encircling the neck ■ of the swelling often remain a long while in their natural condition, with- out thinning, or undergoing any other change ; neither do the considerable iB discharge of ichor nor the throwing off of portions of the fungous Growth 1 pr°dace any diminution; on the contrary, the swelling continues increasing i- and thrusts the surrounding parts asunder, without infecting them with its own peculiar diseased metamorphosis; they are only altered by the con- tinued pressing together which the swelling effects upon them. This nr lisease especially occurs in the earlier periods of life. 230L The diseased substance contained in the tumour differs so much T f. dlfferent periodsi of the disease, that a definition which shall include all ftages of its development is impossible. It may be whitish, reddish i rownish, and even black ; its consistence may vary equally, which •f depends on more or less of the cruoric or albuminous elements of the blood 1 h?coSS d' i °l , ies\different re]ations of the leased substance rest I rtt T’71 iaVe bf0 put forward as different degenerations, and I TLd?rT c esiS'mtl0ns, though alone depending on the different stages IssL CV pme ’ 0r 0n the Peculiarity of the organ in which it has designations applied to this disease, all of which are taken from different Spriate Ind sWnn’ T P"ef67;ed Medullary Fungus (Markschwamm) as mos nn2ir,d ?Pec,ally as thereby all confusion with the bl'ood-/u«(/«s, produced bv nnatuml distension of the capillary-vascular system, (par. 1507.) is avoided Y eduUare irTthat fn thSI* a dldfrenc,e between fungus hccmatodes and sarcoma lantitv nf moi!’ the former, the substance of the swelling is penetrated bv a 'nsistence e,mb.ra"oas bands> whilst in the latter it is of an homogeneous medullary r, hr ■ c?’,and Slmdar t0 the cortical substance of the brain. In the former if thU 7 tter bert!euPTaSSibie washed awa>’’the membranous partitions still remain ; but if the snS ln 11 te,manT\er-lts eapsule only, and a number offlocculi hanging from S voSt ’ a.re l6^ } haye “over found these distinctions in my examinatfons UullZtZthe dTffeIe°nceUnf U a fT"06 between/«^«® hcematodes and sarcoma assumes thathe substances composing the swelling, from which e suh^nV . nf i^rl1 oth(‘r respects the nature of both tumours is alike and e lenn-tp i f ,both al,ke consists of cellular tissue and vessels some of vJwi, 4 wric8elemeiaud/0rne ?ewIy P,roduced> fet that the blood is deposited rather in £ I inthe of medullary sarcoT^ngus I ■'latter, although the two > .0,mer, he does not make the least allusion to f "hich had burst miHledIvir61?8!!11 dlu,st!'at,°n are both medullary fungus, one ' skm ulcerated Rut he S ‘ d^th! “d ln, the otber the patient died before 1 ab"g the case of a irl wt wf y Fe[Cr to Hey’s fungus hannatodes in charged a little scrum hnt„ • ‘ ! a °? ber arm, which he punctured, and n ne away, and severe the finger, some strata of coagulated blood 3 U Sevtre heeding ensued, which could not be stopped, and the Anatom li V'OL. ij. y of the Head and Neek, (6) First Lines of Surgery, Edition. arm p. 358. Seventh 3 A