RESECTION OF THE COLLAR-BONE. 1003 more than usual pliancy, but yet there was considerable power. She can also perform the actions of rotation outwards and inwards. The elevation of the arm from the side cannot be easily accomplished, and requires the aid of the opposite hand to raise it to a horizontal level. She possesses considerable power, and can lift with ease moderately heavy substances.” (p. 239.) , (4) The operation of Syme’s (a) here alluded to, like Liston s, sprung out of another, which was amputation at the shoulder-joint for a fibro-cartilaginous tumour of the upper part of the humerus, having exposed which, he “ easily cut through the acromion process and clavicle, and then depressing the arm, separated its remaining attachments. It now appeared that a fibrous anchylosis had existed between the glenoid cavity and the tumour, which had a cup-like form, and embraced it on all sides, He therefore sawed through the neck of the scapula, and removed a portion of the bone, including the coracoid process.” , , . .. , , , (5) Travers in July, 1838, removed all the blade-bone immediately below its spine, for a large medullary sarcomatous tumour occupying the whole infraspinate pit. He first cut through the skin from the upper to the lower angle, and next from the root of the acromion, along the inferior costa to the beginning of the first cut. He then turned up the flap of skin to rather above the spine of the bone; detached the rhomboid muscles from its base and the in. teretes and latissimus dorsi from the inferior costa and arnde, and next made a cut immediately beneath the whole length of the spine down to th° bone, in doing which a large gush of bloody fluid, as in Liston’s case, followed. The base of the bone first, and afterwards the inferior costa, were sawn through with a narrow saw ; and it was then attempted to cut across the bone with cutting nippers, but this failing it was sawn through without difficulty, close to the spine. The bleeding was severe, and he was much exhausted, but only seven vessels were tied. The flap was laid down and fixed with two sutures and straps of sticking plaster. The wound healed kindly in about three weeks; but three months after the operation, a small tumour of the same kind appeared in the scar, and soon after another on the side of the chest. These gradually increased, burst, and threw out bleeding fungous growths ; but he lingered a long while, and died just twelve months after the operation. HI.—Of Resection of the Collar-bone. 2854. Resection of the collar-bone, which may be indicated in commi- nuted fracture, if the sharp ends of the fracture thrust outwards or injury to the vessels or nerves be feared, in caries and necrosis, and bony tumours, requires, according to the different states of the soft parts, a transverse cut aloim the bone, from the two ends of which a small vertical cut must be made” or two elliptical cuts, including the diseased part; or for a very large swelling a crucial cut. The bone is then carefully separated from the” soft parts, the knife being always kept close to it; a spatula or a leather strap is thrust beneath the bone, which is then cut through with Hf.y’s saw or with the osteotome. The edges of the wound are brought together with sticking plaster, lint and compresses put over it, and the arm supported with Desault’s or Boyer’s fractured clavicle apparatus. In the total removal of the collar-bone, which Cuming (b) performed after ampu- tation at the shoulder-joint, and removal of the blade-bone in consequence of a crush hy a gunshot-wound, Meyer (c) and Roux (d), on account of caries, Warren (e) and Mott (f) for osteosarcoma, a cut was made along the collar-bone, and brought down a little below each end, at which a vertical cut about two inches long was made, tlie flaps turned back and the bone laid bare. The acromial end was then disjointed, the bone raised up and separated by disjointing its sternal end. (Travers (y) operated on a boy of ten years old, who, in consequence of a fall which probably broke the collar-bone without rupturing the periosteum, had large effusions of (а) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xlvi. p. 219. 1896. (б) London Medical Gazette, vol. v. p. 273. 1830. (c) voj» Graeve und von Walther’b Journal, vol. xix. p. 17. (d) Bulletin general de Therap., vol. vi. livr. 8. (e) American Journal of Medical Science, vol. xiii. p. 17. 1833. (/) Amoricnn Journal of the Medical Sciences vol. iii. p. 100. 18->8. (</) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxi. 1838.