THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 261 rection of the external iliac artery to half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. He vided first the skin, then the aponeurosis of the external oblique abdominal muscle, d carried his finger under the lower edge of the internal oblique and transverse iscles, in order to protect the peritonaeum, whilst he divided those muscles with a inmon or button-ended bistoury. The peritonaeum was pressed back with the finger. According to Charles Bell, the cut should be commenced at the outer pillar of ? abdominal ring, carried outwards and upwards, and terminated half an inch above - upper front spine of the hip-bone, and two fingers’ breadth to its inner side. The joneurosis of the external oblique muscle is then to be divided from the ring upwards, i|on a director, the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle raised, the spermatic 4‘d drawn inwards and upwards, with a blunt hook, the cellular tissue put aside, and i«: artery isolated. But if there be not sufficient space to apply the ligature, the ernal oblique muscle must be divided upwards and outwards. Scarpa begins the cut half an inch under the upper front spine of the hip-bone, and inch and a half from it nearer the white line, and carried down near to the crural :h. Division of the three abdominal muscles and separation of the peritonaeum. '2) With a semilunar cut. Astlev Cooper makes a semielliptical cut, beginning near the spine of the hip-bone i terminating a little above the inner edge of the outer abdominal ring. The meurosis of the external oblique is divided in the same direction. This flap being «v a little raised, the course of the spermatic cord is seen, and if followed by the ger under the edge of the internal oblique muscle, the opening in the fascia trans- sahs (inner ring) is entered, and the finger touches the artery (4). The practice of Lisfranc and Anderson agrees with this, but the latter makes the less curved and a little shorter, (not quite three inches,) separates the skin upwards i downwards, and dividing the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, terminates cut a little before the external abdominal ring. The aponeurosis is then to be sepa- ed from the internal oblique muscle, with the handle of the knife: the spermatic ■d now exposed, is to be raised, and its sheath lifted up and cut through with the knife iscissors. Through this aperture the little finger of the right hand is to be carried the internal ring, and the artery being reached, is then to be separated from the cJascia and vein by the introduction of a silver aneurysmal needle, and tied. .’UST, considers that the cut should be made in the same way, only three and a half f hes long, through the three abdominal muscles and the epigastric arterv which j st at once be tied. IS 3) With an oblique incision. t Sf' Delpecu, and others, determine that the cut should be commenced I aSCTL r , Re UPPel; fVcT,Srne the hip-bone, and continued across 9 a™®. tae rectlls a finger’s breadth from Poupart’s ligament, so that the cut t “4Ir ®i0U^pgerS,bl;0a-d- The division of the thl’ee abdominal muscles and so on! I ,cPr a°d P°fT (“)» m case of an aneurysm extending high up, made a cut four I >ei^front'snine of v™ °f SwelHug’ to a Point’ between the navel and the » swelii™ P ?i f th<Lhlp bo"e- The peritonaeum much thickened by the pressure of -ellmgneeded cutting. Bujalskv also makes the incision in the same direction U) ulDrw (6) 7 Preference and objections to these different operations! advlnw0 p . mode 0f t7.1Ilg the external iliac Guthrie observes “It offers advantage of greater space, which enables the Surgeon to see better what he is dnW- , 4te,zrdlv,n:f of w* “ «p » conseTOnIe I??, 1?, d,ffcr“l from the first, which is after all a matter o' L «l, uenc,r’ *5 wer.e found necessary to do it.” (p. 375). He also mentions tbn< I uckn-? the epigastric artery divided in this operation.* * * If the Surgeon ha° 1 U’ eaher ln ?“or in any °*er operation, all that he has to do is tr I a no^be of anv"! b0th the dluVlded ends i and 1 have no hesitation in saying n fins i °P anJ consequence, either in this operation or in one for hernia Tf i f an in^in^xtoft ^wo^^atures1^^^ W°'ind his Peritonaeum of a quarter or of | ent of the external ilis fns H 1 epigas\r?° arteiT’ and a slight increase on the A ce in reality iht^ons’add httlf or nothing to the danger, which only takes it/ n v _ ^ie wound is closed up, and the arterv ic nlintimri ^i J ) u w. ce in realitv when th« ZW a • i 5 turning to me danger, which only takes ly.” (p 37o \ nim. v drSi C °Se£ Up’ and the artery is allowed to bleedy inter- red thc epigastric artery in i82°!’thThTee r ^ th'‘S t0 be CX?Ctly the case wheu >ped it by puttiL oTtwo ,1 U t ie bleeding was very copious, and though he *'ip . | f, gatures, the patient died in a few days of peritonitis (c).] \Z£tzxzr a>- po",'-AnT’s u«ammt “> m* <* J alartery, a cut is to be made midway between the iliac (6) Above cited1pn<284Med' “"‘VnW lleBistfr. vol. iy. p.443. * • (c) Avxbzll 8 Operative Surgery, p. 73