418 RETENTION OF URINE, FROM STONE; did not prevent him subsequently recurring to the same mode of treatment, when tl pipe ao'ain broke, leaving about an inch and a half in the membranous part of tl urethra This he attempted to remove, by making a cut with a penknife into tl perinamm as he lay before a glass, and succeeded in exposing the pipe, but beir, unprovided with instruments, and failing, by groping with his finger, to get it, he w: obliged to send for my friend, who drew it forwards with a pair of dressing forcep and readily removed it. The man did well. Case 2 A man in Walworth workhouse, having made frequent attempts to comm suicide, at length, for the same object, passed a piece of stiff wire, about five or s inches long into the urethra, as far as he could, and afterwards drove it with his fi under the arch of the pubes into the pelvis. By pressure on the perineum, the e: tremitv of the wire was indistinctly felt. A cut was made into the urethra behind tl bulb, about an inch and half in length, but the wire end not being seen, the cut w lengthened backwards about half an inch, which exposed the extremity of the wm Much difficulty was found in seizing the wire, as at each attempt it receded with the sc parts when the points of the dissecting forceps (which only could be used, on accoir of want of space) were introduced; but when seized, it was readily withdrawn, ai th John HuNTEutays, that “bougies have been known to be forced out of the bladd along with the water, by the action of that viscus, and in several folds, (p. 134 ; Th is certainly a very rare occurrence, but, by no means, impossible or improbable; f. there is a preparation in St. Thomas’s Museum, of a large adventitious membrane, for or six inches long, and an inch and a half wide, which was voided by the urethre and it is only necessary for the bougie to be so situated as to form a sort of plu against which the urine behind may be driven forwards.—J. t. b.j 1802. If a vesical stone lie against the neck of the bladder, andproduc ischury, the same proceeding as in inflammatory ischury, must be te recourse to, and the stone removed from the neck of the bladder, eitlu bv placing the patient on his back, with hispefois raised, or by introducir a catheter. Lumps of blood and collections of mucus in the urethra * also relieved by passing the catheter. If small stones or other hard bod* stick in the urethra, itself, it must be attempted, by employing, at the san time, antiphlogistic and antispasmodic remedies, to squeeze them graduaJi out of the urethra, or with Hunter’s or Cooper s forceps to withdni them after having carefully enlarged the passage by introducing tint bougies, etpecially^if silkworm gut. If the object be not thus attain^ a c, must be made, where the foreign body is situated, and thence it must ! removed (1) : a catheter is to be left in afterwards, and the edges of wound tried to be healed with quick union (2). Retention of urine from small stones, which have got into the mouth of‘ the! ««£ or into its membranous part, is probably much more frequent, than generally .. PF- in which case the diagnosis is doubtful, and if the catheter be cannot be felt, and the retention on the contrary, is to be considered mflanmiatory^ spasmodic. As symptoms of such ischuria calculosa may be to a certain - sldered their occurrence after any mechanical movement, without stones, wbt ence and their cessation after such shaking. For the removal of use btdetfo the introduction of a catheter is not possible for instance, when ‘here are tures, injections of water, made with some force into the must te emp._ together with rubbing and shaking the perinamm, but the bladder must not be p overloaded, or the urethra considerably inflamed (a). 0ften 1 \ f(l) If a stone or any other body be near the lips of the ^ ai (j removed with a little dexterity and patience, by curving the ey’fj®" L* £d it; th. I gently insinuating it between the stone and the urethra, ^’Ithepomt legrtbe rca< j using the probe as a lever, it may be gently drawn forwards, andif^henthe tf the orifice of the canal, it will not pass, a small mck with a lancet at JMpa ^ , j aperture, where it most clings, will soon allow it to ame out If * J .( out> 8 c, I in the membranous part, if the forceps fail in catchin0 hoi necessary to introdm ; must be made directly down upon it But m doing this it will be necessary | („) Schhkoer, CUimrglselie Versuche, vol. i. p. 187.-Cloqvkt, I.; in Jonrn. de MWoc ne, vol-