203 FREQUENCY OF ANEURYSM. Guthrie also observes:— “ The exertion in general is infinitely greater in the man than in the woman; and I think this, combined with the freer use of ardent spirits, a much more likely predisposing cause than either syphilis or mercury.” (p. 87.) With regard to the age at which aneurysm occurs, Astley Cooper observes (6): “ The period of life at which they most frequently occur is between thirty and fifty years • at that age in the labouring classes the exertions of the body are considerable and its strength often becomes diminished : in very old age this complaint is less frequent, as muscular exertion is less. The greatest age at which I have seen aneurism has been eighty years; this was in a man for whom I tied the popliteal artery in Guy’s Hospital, for popliteal aneurism; and, notwithstanding his advanced age, I never had an operation succeed better. I also,operated on a man of sixty-nine years, and that case also did well. A boy, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, had an aneurism of the anterior tibial artery, who, I was informed, was only eleven years old. The man of eighty was the oldest, and the boy of eleven ihe youngest, which I have seen with aneurism.” (pp. 40, 1.) As regards the frequency of aneurysm in the sexes, Wilson (a) remarks, that shortly before John Hunter s death, he heard him state that he had only met with one woman with true or spontaneous aneurysm. Astley Cooper says “ In forty years’ ex- perience, taking the hospital and private practice, I have seen only eight cases of non- hteal aneurism in the female, but an immense number in the male. The aneurisms which I have seen in the female, have been the greater number in the ascending aorta or the carotid arteries, (p. 41.) Of the sixty-three cases referred to by Hodgson seven only were females, and the other fifty-six males, (p. 87.) Guthrie states that he does not recollect having seen more than three women suffering from popliteal aneurism; and it is probable that they are found, on an average, at least, from twenty to thirty times, in men for once in woman. The structure of the vessels is the same but .he mode of life is diff.m,,." (p 87.) L™™ (i) meoa„n, Zt of one C„dS nnH thf ^f°UrCaS? WhT'Ch he bad coI,ated> one hundred and forty-one were males and thirteen females. I myself, in the course of thirty years, do not recollect more than three external aneurysms, which were popliteal, in females. J. F S J 1406. Aneurysm may occur in all arteries; the internal' arteries are owever, more frequently attacked with it than the external, the reason 4 which may be, that the nearer the arteries are to the heart, the thinner ire their walls in proportion to their diameter, consequently they are less apable of withstanding a violent pressure of the blood. The curves | also, which the arteries describe in their course, have an influence on the i more frequent origin of aneurysm. Aneurysm of the arch of the aorta is : .most frequent; next comes aneurysm of the popliteal, then of the inguinal fi axillary, and carotid arteries. False aneurysm, as a consequence &of the IXky°biTeSi.0C0UrS “°St COmm°"ly fa the brachM. an £ 'penning S3yS J°H4N Hu™’ “has so™ power in I arger arteries, as at the arch of tl5 ane.Unsm®- Aneurisms are most frequent in the | :rtrfTtn ir; the but they *ing chiefly of Slfciffif no" neJrs^m iSe’lthe St™Cture of the Ia,’ge arteries ofr great6r P°WerS resistance.” (pp. 544 4501 ’ “ ^ Wldch have fallowing ^W^^^ve^b^HOTJoso^Md^by1 LisraANC*:—eXterDal arteries> the Hodgson. Hodgson. ’opliteal and Femoral 14 males. • lfemalc- ubclavian and illary ... 5 ■>guinal . , ‘ ’ jo Lisfhanc. 2 males. Total 34 Popliteal . . , Femoral, at the groin’ „ other parts Carotid . . Subclavian Axillary . . External iliac . brachio-cephalic brachial Common iliac . / , . Carried forward llysiologyUanSj0p.,ti|leI ,,,00‘l> anfa Anatomy, '"don, ls’iu llvm °8y °f tl,e Vascular System. , 59 26 18 17 16 14 5 4 3 3 165 brought forward Anterior tibial Gluteal Internal iliac . Temporal . . Internal carotid Ulnar . . Radial . . Palmar arch . Peroneal . 165 3 Total. 2 1 1 1 1 I 179 mlra pour mnv Methodes et des difi&ens Pro- 0 . | u 1 Obliteration des Arteres dans Ip trnitp ment des Anevrysmes. Paris, 1824 8vo.