193 TREATMENT. ijftgins (o curve into the palm, at the onset only the first joint bends, but e others follow its movements. In proportion as the ailment proceeds e ring-finger bends still more. At this period no knotty swelling is yet It on the palmar surface of the ring-finger ; its last two joints are raight and movable. The first joint is bent at a more or less right igle, it is movable in its connexion with the metacarpus, but the greatest olence cannot straighten it. If the ring-finger be considerably bent, the in in the palm presents a fold in the direction of the concavity, wards the ring-finger, and the convexity towards the wrist. If the Imar surface of this finger be felt, a stretched cord is found, the point which is directed towards the first joint, and which may be followed to e upper part of the palm. If the finger be bent, this disappears ; but, if straightening be attempted, the tendon of the m. palmaris longus is ought into motion, which extends to the upper part of the palmar fascia, d the cord is more tightly stretched. SAccording to Goyraud (a) the retraction of the tendinous cords depends on new mations, which pass from the fascia to the sheathof the tendon, from it to the lateral pts of the phalanges, and even from one phalanx to another. These bridges are, vever, merely growths of the bridges existing in the natural state. Sanson (6) also [ieves that this is the usual cause, and the contraction of the palmar fascia only the Option. f the bending of the finger depend on contraction of the bending muscles, a :k cord is felt, in attempting to straighten it, under the fascia; the m. palmaris pains immovable, but the bending muscles on the fore-arm are stretched. In a scar, th the muscles attached to it, stretching movements cause pain in the same part; if p ^an(l. be p>e.np towards the fore-arm, then the patient can straighten his finger. In jsy, or in division of the tendons of the straightening muscles, the finger is kept per- .nently shut into the hand, but it may be straightened with a little force, no tight cord celt, and all the joints are free. In diseased changes in the joints, the finger is more or s bent; the anchylosed phalanges are immovable; but the others can be moved, and no lit cord is felt in the palm. Many occupations give rise to deformity of the joints t,le.phalanges without anchylosis, but with permanent bending; thus is the little B|®r,ln knitters and seamstresses; so the ring-finger, and often several fingers of the Hnt hand, m tailors; and in lace-makers the four last fingers of both hands are curved S*T f° 0n,’ C0„nseTience of habit; no cord-like stretching is, however, noticed in the V ’ a.n.d th® anger may still be somewhat straightened. Scars may he easily distin- p fsnen by their tension in attempting to straighten the finger. >|1397. That the cause of this crooking of the finger is an excessive > usion of the palmar fascia, which has arisen from pressure, and bruising *’ .,ard handi'v'°rk, Dupuytren has proved by careful observation, and ^ \ ie successful division of this aponeurosis. Rubbing, bathing, mecha- K.flfaPmuat1US’ an? the like’ have usually no result, or only transient 1 A- 1 ie matter I noticed in a considerable curvature of the" ring-fineer i dmani!n iTel ir\uVhich’ by continued use of gray mercurial ointment, turtlv a blhs’ the proper positlon ancl mobility were restored; but slrnLi , , reraedies ^re given up, the .finger again became | Lt pJ crooked us formerly. The division of the palmar aponeurosis ■■ e junction nf A transverse cut is made through the skin opposite to b etS 6 firS, pba anx with the metacarpal bone, and then the IKsSfeneT ^ “ tHe ^ dirGCti°n- If the fi»g^ cannot iod second nh!r ’a transv.erse cut must be made at the joint of the first ISe curved \°r m thG middle °f the first P^lanx. If all the Blow the forme?’ a 'anrerSC,CUt must be made an inch and a quarter mer one in the palm of the hand, and the aponeurosis divided. 0 Schmidt's Jahrbucher, 1833. p. 248. VOL. II. (6) Gazette Medicate, 1833.1. 8 August.