MULLER’S DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 757 i First, cells of very great variety in different cases; simple cell -nuclei : with nuclear corpuscles, sometimes surrounded with very pale cells, some- ; times with completely formed cells, in general rounded, sometimes studded with granules, or having granular contents. Tailed cells are rare, and i when existing, seem rather dependent on the development of the fibres. $ Sometimes there are very characteristic cells, with very thick double walls j and granular contents. Granules and fat-corpuscles are frequently mixed !• together with the cells, sometimes singly, sometimes collected in heaps, I' and sometimes as it appears enclosed in cells. Second, flbres, sometimes ; broad and band-like, sometimes narrow, and not unfrequently elastic fibres. The arrangement of the fibres varies considerably. Third, together with •’ tlie cells ancl fibres there is commonly found as an actual element of scir- . rhus, a mucous fluid, which coagulates with acetic acid and solution of alum. .i!DLLfia)^StlDgU;S.heS four several kinds of Carcinoma, according to the different nature of the tissue. First, Carcinoma simplex ; second, Carcinoma reticulare ; third rCT‘““ alveolare; and, fourth, Carcinoma fasciculatum. Therewith he also reckons Carcinoma, medullare and melanodes. rJlt/th!Tsw,Ple* and fibrosnm, the uneven, generally lobeless substance which motefv pre!G, Whe*? ?Ut trough, a gray basal mass, which seems only re- Tth/b 1 t0 cartilage, and in which there are irregular whitish bands. Scirrhus iSlS'ZZTr eXhib 15 hr anu-there White threads>in which a can be in’ i ndt D i * -°me colourless, whitish, or yellowish contents. It seems to ori- fclrll J thickening of the walls of the milk canals and lymphatic vessels. In tanct rlfl?S rndUitar °rganSi n° such hollow white theads are observed. The sub- JiS! and of a granular gray substance. The former rarely it is also the hed hanH * thro.ugh’ but 1S seen ,on scraping off the gray matter, for which fibres Thn i| d k Preseats a Yery irregular mesh-like tissue of bimdles of tough which hi™ i-fTi y substance is composed entirely of microscopic formative corpuscles ck wbh i r TneXc10cn Wlth each otber’ are transparent and hollow cells or ves - scTubL S nnm i.i °f fr«m 0.00045-0,00120 of a Paris inch in diameter, and are be distinci.kh^dGr C° 1 DOr boding water nor acetic acid. In many of these cells may mheJl alaSr cmer ^ S°,T small7spots> having the appearance of little granules ; in ,Besides thXm 7USC e’ lk<; a nucleus< or little vesicle contained in the cell-corpuscle 3*^ many little knobs of fat are always found scattered in the^hiteTeticldSiwhe j .cat through is distinguished from Carcinoma simplex by gray su£mn™ " df >ngo'shable with the naked eye, which run through the which i, i^ -’ d Tby ltS tendency to form lobes as well also as by the greater bulk and annmicWCS' |nnconsl®tence it sometimes resembles scirrhus, sometimes is softer always remain f“edulIary f^n9u« ! but with this variety of consistence, the structure SC!,aTh=Ttoni‘f‘d V * o(7hS S5rt,SrC"»''^ 'meet more and more durinn- the oou corpuscles. These white corpuscles 'le self-destroying tissue som.Timec • °f deYe.1°Pment. and form an element of ’.'ance or line the interior ^r hi ,• Ple,c,es whlch are enclosed by the other sub- lkeafilm. The cornusd^theUi when(X‘ they detach themselves P pass into the softening and suppuration of the broken (a) Above cited, p. 11.