50 TABULAR VIEW OF OPERATIONS of faces in the wound. On examining the body, the whole of the intestines were found so j strongly adherent to each other, that they could not be separated without laceration. A . portion of the ileum, the same, probably, which had been protruded, adhered to the abdo- minal ring. Its coats were greatly stretched, and its canal was much contracted. A small 11 ulcerated aperture was discovered in this part; and led, in a fistulous form, through a . substance nearly equal in size to the little finger, to the external wound.” (p. 328.) It has been well observed by Key, that “cases are sometimes met with in which thet- patient appears to be doing well after the operation, the evacuations being free and natural,, and the sickness and pain subsiding ; but after the lapse of two or three days the powers ■ begin to sink, the abdomen, though not very tense, is uneasy under pressure, the pulseoji small and quick, and the tongue becomes dry and coated. This condition is, perhaps,- j protracted for several days, and the patient at length dies. A post mortem inspections discovers the cause of death in the dark colour and lacerable condition of the strangulated J portion of the bowel and the vascular state of the surrounding parts. This unexpected^ termination of a case, when it does occur, usually takes place in patients of enfeebled jj constitution, whose powers are unequal to the restoration of the healthy circulation icu the strangulated bowel after its release from the stricture; and in whom, therefore, in slight degree of inflammation gradually ends in the extinction of its vitality. At thM period of the operation the intestine ,wlien exposed, presents none of the usual indicatiom i of present or approaching gangrene ; no infiltration of its tissues, no discoloration beyoDC j that which retarded circulation in a healthy bowel produces, no lack of peritoneal lustrej and no lacerability of texture ; it in no point appears to differ from those cases of stran: gulation, in which an early operation is had recourse to before severe symptoms comut on, and in which a favourable prognosis is verified by a rapid convalescence. Exposur i Kind. Sex. Ago. Duration. 1335. I. Aug. 17 tight scrotal, not small. Male . 43 From childhood, N but not con- genital. 1336. 11. May 10 Left direct scrotal, (also on other side,) size of pigeon’s egg. Male . 73 15 ycurs ... - III. Oct. 29 Scrotal, large as child’s head of two years. Male . 45 19 yenre .... 1337. IV. Jan. 24 Scrotal, left, (also on other side,) size of an orange. Mule . 82 40 yenrs, (incarce- rated. ) V. Sept. 24 Femoral, right dou- ble sac. Female SO 9 years .... 1830. VI. Sept. 27j Scrotal, right, as large as a pear. Mule . 46 2 years .... Tabular View of Operati( Strangu- lation. Vomiting. Constipa* 11$ hours Seven hours, . Not mem little. how In * 3 days . Constant . . 3 dap Symptoms not urge-1 Four years cup- truss. 4 days . None . 3 days • Much • For some time . |36 hours . Slight . . . (Symptoms of strangulation scarce, so that I did not operate for 24 hours.) 4 days ^ 3 dap 24 hou rail} sincr cl}> * Upon these coses I operated in St. 1 homos s Hospital during the nrst lour ana a nan quent severe illness has twice broken in on me, and prevented me keeping so regular an account i from such tables.—J. F. S.