ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. 449 ! first mentioned («) that Schmitt had pointed out this metamorphosis ; and nothing ijnre could be said of Schmitt’s observation. For according to Goelis, during the tatnient of a blood-swelling with caustic, when the tumour becomes as hard as bone, ■Bii. immovable, and is not dispersed by the maintenance of suppuration and the use !!• resolvent applications, it must be left alone, and gradually subsides. But Schmitt asserted the directly contrary and decidedly inapplicable explanation of this process, f>;iat the portion of bone lying beneath the swelling, which is at first pressed by the ght of the blood is, after the absorption of the blood, again raised up by an oscillation Bending on its own elasticity, to which the increased thinning of the bone, perhaps in- i' ved by its maceration in the blood, or the more influential act of absorption, seems to br.esome probability.” It may be further remarked, that this observation of Schmitt has . a noticed by no subsequent writer, and is not even hinted at in Zeller’s Dissertation. gU853. Any other termination of this disease, when left to itself, cannot c 11 happen. It is indeed stated, that if the blood can find no escape, it I rifles, is converted into a bluish, brownish, or soot-coloured substance, a ich is either thinly or thickly fluid, and has either a stale or putrid s ell; and as the thickening’ of the pericranium is prevented by the ! ernal discharge of the ichor, the surface of the bone is attacked, its rfole thickness destroyed, actual perforation of the skull takes place, and it .th follows. The blood-swelling may also sometimes run on to suppu- ion (b). From my own observation, however, as well as that of l- lers, I hold it decided that this result, although it may actually take j£e, is not to be ascribed directly to the blood-swelling itself, since, as effexbach has correctly remarked, the excess of blood, and the great 0 tntive condition of children, strongly withstands this mischievous effect 1 the pressure of the outpoured blood. Some other influences must, W Tefore, be added, as improper treatment with destructive remedies, tner after opening the swelling, or disease in the child, by which absorp- n is set up, and the destruction of the bone produced. I in which actual perforation of the skull has been observed, confirm the | e stated opinion, inasmuch as in all there was an opening of the tumour. Thus in I ty Na,egeee 0)> in which, after opening the swelling, the treatment ■ amJciseUsf!,;tKRA?Sf (f,)+5ase* Burcharb’s cases («), show also this perforation; I nsmeTtW Dt °f al -he prev\°us cond,tl°ns is wanting, and in one case it is I XtilSS ! of ,he cMId> “* ™th“’ • 8o4 The causes and modes of origin of blood-swellings are as nume- s as the various opinions which have been put forward in reference to the dart T^any -iaVe C0Lnsldered their generic relations as completely re nartt.if ?PenInCe sh?T8 ftft the^ °CCUr e8Pecia% after easy and, er breech f r7’ after q,mC,k la!?ours.; they have even been met with : force._ anm a f aft,®y dlfficult delivery and delivery with eased conrlvrhat eft6 ?lood'swellln8‘ 1S always accompanied with a * blood J"°n °f ft® ft06’ and destruction of its outer table, so that ■diet*! k°0ZeS °Ut °* tie rotten bone as out of a sponge is con- 'tc«L„byorS“ien? jhj roT."rSS of « welllX er dpenimr the ft tabft +whlch. 18 observed, not in all cases, tie late sgthe "g’ but Partlc"cularly when the opening is n. Th: consequence not the cause, and depends on absorp- I ler the pericrania 116 ft °°d’ ft extensive bursting, is poured out this, as well as toftl* no Prov®d by observation; and in opposition ,,) H*ndbucii Z he "° °f an onSinal disease of the bone, it ) Botch; Ilandbucli ilcr<\’nthVn,u'lnn- v . Cc) ^rfahr. unit AblmndL, p. 252. r ,nt')in'lungskun8t, (d Gemeinsame deuUche’Zeitschr. Kir Gobuxta- kunde, vol. vi. p.386. fOL. ir (e) Above cited. 2 G