159 ITS KINDS. the spine increases. With such increased inclination toward the side, distortion of the spine also occurs ; the spinous processes are twisted toward the side of the inclination. The whole trunk is gradually bent, the ribs follow the distortion of the spine, are flatter on their concave surface, but upon their convex hinder surface are more strongly arched, are very widely separated from each other, and broader, whence a pro- jection backwards is produced. The breast-bone is mostly oblique, and drawn towards the concave side of the curvature. If the curvature be at the upper part of the spine, the position of the shoulder-blades is much changed. Curvatures at the lower part of the spine affect the carriage of he body less than at the upper. Lastly, curvatures are produced in jpposite directions, in which case one is, as it were, equalized by the )ther. In the highest degree the direction of the bones of the pelvis is ihanged, the one hip-bone stands higher than the other, and, under the iircgjnastances mentioned, (par. 1344,) the promontory of the rump-bone nay project inwards towards the one or other side, and narrow the entrance >f the pelvis. The higher position of one shoulder is always present in scoliosis, but it occurs alone .nd without simultaneous curving of the spinal.1 column, as high shoulder (Humerus Raising u shoulder, usually the right, by which the elevating muscles of he shoulder-blade become gradually stronger, is the result of bad habit ; the lower ngle of the blade-bone is raised higher than that of the other side; the'hinder edge h°pWTnr’l 1 m a0"6 m th,e,Same P°sition’ and only after long continuance does he shoulder-blade project especially at its angle. If both shoulders be high, which ceurs from bad carriage, as a consequence of corresponding straining of both arms in Sef and'Z L^- S’ m short-siShted and old persons, the bac^ is considerably rched, and the head in the same proportion projecting. In a higher degree always t the same time, some inclination of the spinal column occurs. y ’ L The most common cause of a high shoulder is to be found in the abominable practice f undressing g.rl’s necks, as low as the hanging on of their clXs will C n fi the Sh0Ulder'StrapS of, their dress being, as they should be, fairly above the >ot of the acromial processes, they often, indeed most commonly, either only skirt the f processes, and rest on the rounded upper part of the deltoid muscles re actually fai down on the arms; in consequence of which the dress In vino- linn tend curvatureof 1theTviZ f,?u* to the sa“® side, and thus a irpose of uncovering her neck and shonldprc ac^f ,S Suie sP01ied, for the simple cency, as for the preservation of the i • i j*>S ?S C3? as Possll)le> which, as well for rentehavebeen / CAllds h?alth’ ought to be covered. Many jrious consequences • and thJrffi 86 °f their dauShter’s distortion, if not of more P ‘heir shoulder out of their dress’ mo^e^ffdWhi° hfye, tlie least disposition to ssibility of keeping up this habit l.’vhnvirJtni Care sh?uld be taken to prevent the wn, and then the fensation of £ “ad? s°high’ that it cannot slip eh up her shoulder, and by a little attention*? h°St’the ° " d n? loDSer continues to ‘ of long standing, may be got rfd of-J f! S ] Pr°Pei' CamaSe’ the m>schief, if 'l.ighefde^e‘Stncl^ fheSt and b<% 'piously displaced by * blood in the lunos is hindered j?Ssetl"enoe.of 'vhlol> the circulation of )&:J« te = e bod