585 THE LATERAL OPERATION (CHESELDEN’S.) 4 pelvic cavity over the base of the gland and side of the bladder. If this natural it boundary between the external and internal cellular tissue is broken up, there is (i scarcely a possibility of preventing infiltration of urine, which must almost cer- «tainly prove fatal. The prostate and other parts around the neck of the bladder are very elastic and yielding, so that without much solution of their continuity, and with- out" the least laceration, the opening can be so dilated as to admit the forefinger readily; through the same wound the forceps can be introduced upon this as a guide.” (p. 508-11.) Cheselden’s Operation. Cheselden’s operation for the stone, his “ lateral way,” as he calls it, has much perplexed writers on this subject. Cheselden himself has distinctly given two modes n which he performed this operation ; the first described in the Appendix to the ourth edition of his Anatomy of the Human Body, ] 730 ; and the second in the Vppendix to the fifth edition 1740; seventh edition, 1750 ; which was the last published a his lifetime, as he died in 1752; and, I presume, also in the sixth, though I have lot had an opportunity of consulting this. In 1731, Dr. James Douglas published in Appendix to the History of the Lateral Operation for the Stone, containing Mr. )heselden|s present method of performing it. 4to. This differs remarkably from Jheselden’s account in his fourth edition; but it is the same precisely, though more ' “Ny detailed, as in Cheselden’s fifth and seventh editions ; and, therefore, although Dr. 'elloly’s (a) observation is perfectly correct, that “ the least consideration will show inat this (Douglas’s) account of Cheselden’s improved operation is perfectly irre- oncilable with that which is given by Cheselden himself, in the Appendix to the \mrth edition of his Anatomy, or by Mr. Morand, with his sanction and authority ” :et the comparison of the fourth and fifth editions will prove that Douglas’s state- tent is correct, and not “ the absurd statement,” nor “ an operation which it is next to TePprc4entTimrf01m^ ^ ^ b6en designated a hiSh1}' distinguished Surgeon of Cheselden’s instruments were a staff, knife, and blunt gorget with a beak. The ^including its handle and straight stem, measured six inches and a quarter in PJgth, and to its extremity joined the grooved part five inches and a half more i tie sulcus or groove is remarkably deep and wide, the edges smooth and blunt—one °\ u peaches a little way down on the handle, and the other, ending in an obtuse nnt, is without any check, as is seen in your common staffs. This part may again be vmed into a curved portion and a straight rostrum or beak. The curvature next e handle not very great, and extends but a little way back from it; and from the •trernity thereof, the long rostrum projects almost directly forwards.” (b) This statement of the curve and the length of the beak of the staff is important, as JnJT ln Cheselden s operation that there could not be any difficulty in i !„ fZ ett, ‘C e°frget'as 11 would run at once into the bladder in a horizontal direc- 1 Dref? J® ex.te.™al wound, without depressing the handle of the staff, which | sta S lffh f the operation is now performed, whether the common curved traight staff be used. The other instruments need no notice. iti^fnf df.sfibef bis operations, the commencement of which -v Ltjiwii a uicuiKet several ciouu ittle more, with his head only raised. I first make as long an incision as I well mufn,'l 'ng nea/" th,G P aC® whero tbe old operation ends, and cutting down between musculus accelerator unnae and erector penis and bv Hie side nf ■ , • eu ‘m; 1 then feel for the staff,” 1 7 Slde ot the lnlest™“™ has far the two editions are the same; but now comes the important difference Fourth Edition, 1730. I Fifth Edition, 1740. 1 Id TtrcluZ t °i n' PT°fate ! “ holding down the gut all the while with cut ..n il * tf-i jl.a?cler’ boldlng down one or two fingers of my left hand and cut ' ■ ,, ot „ ? °Pera‘ hvs beyond the corpora cavernosa urethra: fl-ti,l /Tio J .. I / 7 ... ^ . ’ , . A tins opera- is the same as in the old way.” (p. 344.) ) Med.-Chir. Trang., vol. xv. p. 347. U UV4-1/GI /H/OUl Ul Clfll CLj and in the prostate gland, cutting from below upwards, to avoid wounding the gut.” (p. *330.) (6) Douolas’s, above cited, p.4.