CAUSES OF. 523 ’ leavy, milky diet, sour beer, sour wine, cider; acidity and irregularity of [■, he bowels, the use of vegetables containing oxalic acid, and circumstances Sf iounected with climate, as low marshy districts. To these may be added j, he hereditary disposition, specially observed in gravel. In the same 3i nanner, the relation between gout and certain kinds of stone, is to be 1 explained; as also its more frequent occurrence in certain districts, in iudvanced age, and in the male sex. According to Deschamps (a), the I 'j atter peculiarity is only apparent in women, as on account of the short- ly iess and width of the urethra, little stones readily pass and more rarely if leed the operation; experience, however, refutes this. Stone is as frequent l a children as in advanced age, and in them the production of stone is in ■lose relation with scrofulous and ricketty disposition, and with dis- urbed development of the bony system. Therefore, also, in children, ^/urinary stones contain relatively less uric acid, but on the contrary, .‘more phosphate of lime, and phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and Jhe contrary proportions occur in the urinary stones of old gouty lersons ([b.) i [The calculi of children consist almost invariably of urate of ammonia. After they » lave caused irritation in the bladder, they become coated with the mixed phosphates, H ike all other concretions.—T. T.] ; 2002. Foreign bodies introduced into the urinary passages, become feovered with a crust of phosphatic salts, or often with some uric acid (1). g The general opinion is that the phosphatic salts of urine arrange themselves h nd form incrustations around the foreign body, according to the same ;f aws by which a foreign body put into a solution of salt, hastens crystal- lization in it. According to Prout, however (c), these incrustations I. -arise because the irritation of a foreign body causes an excess of phosphatic ij -alts to be produced ; or because the foreign body enters the bladder at a time r when the urine there is disposed to incrustation from excess of phosphates. ' Auch foreign bodies as serve for the nuclei of these incrustations pass iodther through the urethra into the bladder (2), or through wounds (3), or 5 .hey are swallowed and penetrate through the intestinal canal into the iddadder (4). Blood, sloughs, and the like may also be the nuclei of stones $rhis is indeed doubted by von Walther, but there are stones which ■Jiave cavities within them, and it is probable that the mucus of the bladder |j’r a similar albuminous animal substance had, at an early period, filled it* f -nd in the course of several years had dried up. Deny’s {d) experience *-Iso appears to agree with this view. But Walther’s opinion is most decidedly contradicted by Lisfranc’s (e) observation ; he found in an ■innary stone, as big as the fist, a blackish nucleus of slight consistence rf'™h. resembled a clot of blood, and on chemical examination, presented ! ■hhT™y substance (5). One of the just-named animal substances may ' 'so be deposited on the nucleus of a stone, over it again a stony mass, so , ’ it m such stones the enclosed animal substance be dried by time * he nucleus no longer appears to fill up the cavity, and when shaken, it («) Traitd Historique et dogmatique de l'Opi M-ion de la Taille, vof. iv. 1 P LW Walthkh; above cited.—Yei.i.oi.v, ] the tomlcncy to Calculous Disens w .•>Servatl0ns on the Nature of Urin wet S and an Analysis, &c.; in PI hrl 1i-,.P'>'”'7,K,ch,,,sch’ Ueber r-ithi. lodenlrt^i-ui® ,,eKr"nd»ng in zoologiscl •odenverbaltnisscn und ihr Zusammenliang , Ausbildung des Scelet-Systems ; in Med. Corre- spondenzblatt bayerischer Aer/.te. 1843.- Textoh Ournin, Versuch idler das Vorkommen der Harn- steine in Ostfranken. Wurzburg, 1843. (e) Above cited, p. 181. (d) De Calculo, p. 14. (e) Archives generales de Medecine, 1327, vol. i. p. 1 .