786 SYMPTOMS OF ACUTE AND CHRONIC stance is laid bare. The scirrhus spreads widely round the nipple, the pain becomes more violent, but the diseased part is not tender to the touch; a crust is no longer formed; the ulcer secretes ichor, and sometimes bleeds.:4 The glands of the arm-pit swell, and the usual symptoms of hectic con- sumption close the scene. . , . According to Astley Cooper (a), a fungous degeneration of the nipple begins the same way. Behind the nipple, and firmly connected with it, a round, less hard swelling6than in scirrhus forms, which is slightly painful on pressure but othen^ ouite free from pain. Astley Cooper also mentions a swelling behind the nipple, which occupies the space of an inch, occurs commonly between seven and twelve years of a°-e is more frequent in boys than girls, mostly on one side, rarely on both, is tender,- often painful when touched, movable, and over which the skin is unchanged. Thial swelling is benignant, and yields to dispersing plasters, and the internal use of calomel > anf AsTLEYbCooPER gives the following account of the development of the nipple mthey fefii and of Us subsequent changes In both male and female mfantsa gland exists, which is the nidus of the future nipple, over which the skin is puckered into a smalli nroiection This glandular substance lies concealed under the skin until near the age oj :s nrnteoted until the age of puberty. It is this structure, then, of the male ana iema e js protectea unt g J ^ time when the evolution of the nipple is com- mencing which produces the swelling to which young people are subject, from <h* ag*- of eight years to the period of puberty ; for when the action is greater ttanflw 1 ^ requires, a hard inflammatory swelling is produced. It ^ n this struct £ future years, the malignant areolar or mammillary tumour forms. Herethe n ) 4 ) 3 . x ' nut Am fit 5 Jt* - ? :•> - ># hi : 1 > A nit Clf •rti rf f Rrahtf savs • “ A scirrhous tumour may occur in rue nippic, * . lf d is ffisrSi originates in the nipple, than where it originates in the breast, (p. 201).] 2447. The symptoms accompanying the development and cancer of the breast are, besides those already noticed, ®ub4«ct b]e ,ime varieties. A scirrhus often exists in the breast for 3Jt .t ■b varieties. A scirrhus often exists in meprwsiiu - —* developed. without causing any inconveniencewhich in otter without causing any inconvenience , wt:ch in other and accompanied with general affection of t le cons i i’eratj,on is often cases only appears at a later period. 1 lie transition intoance 0f the the consequence of external violence, and often o m ^ generally monthly discharge. Sometimes open cancer is little painf , t = highly so; and the more severe the pain m scirrhus and cance^^ quicker is their progress ; hence may be distinguished an acute an cancer of the breast. , , ;n t]ie breast, at Acute cancer begins as a hard lump, deep y ^ which first movable, but in one or two months adherent to the but becomes discoloured. The hardness soon affects tl,e J ^ eiiUstic. as if only a single part projects much, is shiny, purple red,. Jn whitlow- it contained fluid. The pain is very violent and shooting £ The gland of the breast does not enlarge regularly, bat l“ Pt xvith little lin-rs • the glands of the skin seem enlarged, the surface is ■ jeS 0f a vvldte points, which become more distinct as the tumoi which CerEly’-™.. A .rickliug begin, on J[ Sc pl~ may lead to the expectation of suppuration, but this does (a) Lectures, above cited, p. 450. it • 1 nrl > < 8 if !)