77 6 CANCER OF THE TONGUE. wards, again brought up in a curve to the edge of the jaw, and continued along it to the edge of the m. masseter. This flap is now to be separated from the jaw, and afterwards a like one having been made on the left side, both are to be drawn inwards and upwards, so that they replace the lower lip, and are then brought together with the twisted suture. Both angles formed by the soft parts on the sides of the chin are now to be dissected up, and so drawn upwards and towards each other that they touch the line of union of the new underlip, and the lower edge of the latter is brought into immediate connexion with the raised skin, in which position the edges of the wound are to be kept together partly by the twisted and partly by the interrupted suture, the head being at the same time bent downwards, 2424. In considering these different methods and performances of Clu- loplasty, with the exception of the very difficult and in its consequence uncertain Italian transplantation, it must be remembered that in the inser- tion of a flap turned round from the skin of the neck, as well as m the mere drawing up of the separated flaps, the bare part of the jaw indeed may be covered, but generally the upper edge of the skin which is firm y connected to the bone, puckers together, rolls inwards, irritates by the growth of the beard, and can only assume in some degree a natural ap- pearance, if it be possible to stitch it to the mucous membrane of the mouth. These circumstances apply in like manner, though in less degree, to Blasius’s method ; and are most favourable in Dieffenbach s ope- ration ; but it is very bad when the side flaps on drawing together do not meet each other, either at the corner of the mouth, or are destroyed by gangrene. In the closure of the side openings, under both operations, nature is very active, and may be assisted by touching with lunar caustic or by making little side cuts (a). 2425. If the cancer of the lip have extended to the bone or have anse from the bone itself, under which circumstances the use of caustic, o actual cautery and the like, in general merely increase themiscluet, t only remaining remedy is the removal of the chin first prac lse } ' derick and Dufuytren. In order that this operation should be sue cessful, the skin must be healthy to such distance that it is possible w cover the part where the bone has been sawn off; and the swelling neighbouring glands and the signs of general cancerous 1 )sc 1 ^ not particularly forbid such operation. The mode of proceeding ^ hereafter considered when the removal of the lower jaw is tita ei ■ is further to be remarked that in cases where the bone is not < e' ’ 1 removal, however, may be requisite, for the purpose of ob ami y to bring the soft parts together (Roux). u0,Wniction 2426. In cancer of the cheeks and other parts of the face, * ■ is commonly undertaken with Cosme’s powder ; where however ^ and nature of the disease permits it being cut off, that method proper. ■ n • b „ H w t1 i B.—OF CANCER OF THE TONGUE. 2427. Cancer of the tongue commonly begins with a scribed swelling at one side or other of that 0^n; characters pain ; the swelling breaks and quickly spreads with the peculi (a) Zeis, above cited, p. 426. >1.