349 PARAPHIMOSIS. Cl ne or other part of the prepuce which runs on to bursting through, it tust be opened with a lancet for the escape of the pus, and injected, f the prepuce be eaten through, and the glans protrude through this ole it is best to cut off the prepuce on the side next the constricted part, . its opening cannot be again brought to its natural place. 1665. Io those cases in which from the pressure of the inflamed and .vollen prepuce upon the orifice of the urethra, the voidance of the urine ; stopped, the ulceration must be prevented by the early introduction fan elastic catheter into the bladder, and if it already exist, at least the urstiug of the urethra, and extravasation of urine which often causes an°rene of the whole penis, be prevented. 1666. The above-mentioned statement (par 1658) that congenital himosis does not depend on narrowing of both folds of the prepuce, but lerely on deficient extensibility of the inner one, is important in explain- ig the origin of Paraphimosis. If, for instance, the very narrow pre- uce be retracted in connexion or in any other manner, its narrow perture where the two folds meet, is situated like a cord behind the glans, he inner coat is turned outwards, and the prepuce everted. The inner oat forms one or more swellings, behind which, and mostly covered by t, the constricted part is exposed. The symptoms caused by paraphi- mosis are various according as the prepuce and glans had been previously lealthy, or both inflamed, ulcerated, or in any other way diseased. In he first instance they are usually not of importance; the swollen, everted old of the prepuce inflames and becomes more swollen, and especially ■n the sides and beneath, the swellings are greatest, become like bladders nd transparent. The swelling spreads to the glans, but usually in a ooderate degree. I have only once noticed priapism accompanying para- phimosis. In the second case, the inflammation and swelling are more ijuick and violent, as both the inner coat and the glans may be consider- ably swelled : retention of urine may occur from the contraction, and •ven gangrene of the glans. In both cases the prepuce may mortify, but isually only the constricted ring behind the glans is destroyed by ulcera- ion in consequence of neglect. When the constriction is not very great, nd the prepuce is not brought over the glans, its folds behind the glans nay grow together by the accompanying inflammation, and in this way n irremediable deformity be produced. 1667. The treatment of paraphimosis always requires the replacement f the everted prepuce as quickly as possibly, which must be attempted i various ways. The glans should be squeezed with three fingers of one ■and for several minutes, or plunged for some time in ice-cold water, to educe its size, and then with the finger and thumb of the other hand, it nust be attempted to draw the prepuce forwards whilst the glans is -ressed back. This handling however is rarely successful if there be nuch swelling and some time have elapsed (1). If the paraphimosis be ac- ompanied with inflammation, blood-letting, leeching, and other anti- •ogistic remedies proportionate to it, must be employed: the handling Js Proposed will only increase the inflammation. Scarifications of the *° en PrePuce> recommended by many, can only be useful by the bleed- tv According to Waltiiek (a) the swelling of the inner fold should moderately pressed, so that it may slip in, and the prepuce return J^^ie 'u.r|,<!' ,i?e<'UCit'onTi'er Paraph>ni09is und nal fur Chirurgie und Augenlieilkundc, vol. vii- ule Meh»n«Hung dot Phimosis ; in his Jour- p. 847.