DIVISION OF NERVES 884 2670. In stubborn neuralgies, which withstand all internal and external treatment, specially those which are seated in the branches of the nerves of the face, the division of the trunk is the only remaining remedy. IbetJ result of this operation is generally doubtful, as, although momentary relief :| i from pain follows it, the disease returns, which is explained by the nume- ; rous ramifications of the nerves spreading on the face, but is kept up by the union of the divided nerves, on which account it has been recommended i to cut out a piece of the nerve, and to employ cauterization. In recentj times, however, the subcutaneous division of nerves has been proposed..H (Bonnet, Dieffenbach, and others.) 2671. In frontal neuralgy where the supraorbitar branch of the fit I pair of nerves is affected, the pain begins in the supraorbitar hole spreads j over the forehead, the hairy part of the head, downwards into the orbit to the inner corner of the eyelids, and frequently over the whole side of ji the face. The supraorbitar nerve should be cut through transversely, • doing which the soft parts, above the supraorbitar hole, must be divided j down to the bone with a bistoury, and lint thrust into the woun , *| should heal by suppuration and granulation. , the nerve do not escape, the edge of the knife mus ® ul“ h t0 divided, the and downwards, and the division made m the same way. 2672. In the case of an infraorbitar (Foth ergi ll 8 W ache ) where the pain begins at the outlet for the infraorbitar ’ spreads over the wings of the nose, the cheek and upper lip of one side the.infraorbitar nerve must be divided. This must be c one y ° ]f ■nointed bistoury half an inch below the under edge of the orbit, am ^n inch fromS inner corner of the eye, directly down towards he cm^ tooth, to the bone, and carried outwards, and ^nwani8 three q * of an inch towards the zygomatic process of the upper jawbone, wound is to be treated as in the former case. sWn is first In the subcutaneous division of the infraorbitar 5^ch from which out- chosen which corresponds to the i nfraoi 'n ar io , . , • j t0 t>e pierced. The wards and the same distance below the edge of ,f ,and, m render the upper lip must be drawn downwards and forward s wth upwards, nerve tense and separate it from the cuspid pit. , and a little downwards, is introduced with‘the right hand and cuts ^ hole, that it may sweep the bottom of the cuspid pit, ti uttle forwards and divides and stop on the nasal eminence. The edge is now dlrf ^Ve fclose to Ae tone. the nerve by a lever-like movement, the knife being always kept close 2673. When the face-ache spreads from the middie of the or towards the wing of the nose and lower Vhfn ^the t^th, and angle. I the mouth and upper lip, or all» iand inferior 4 of the lower jaw, the middle branches of and the 6 maxillary nerves, or even the lower branches of the facial 1 mental nerve are affected. ^ ^ mM,e lramhes ", . . _ . nBoprvatiuns and mq In the former case (a) Fothkroim., J., M.D., Of a painful Affection of the Face ; in vol. v. p. 129. London, 1776.