TIIE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 263 .ud continued to convey a portion of the blood; but, below this part, it had become .imply a ligamentous cord. The internal iliac artery sent first a very large artery of mummification to the epigastric and obturator artery, so that the epigastric was supplied vith blood from the internal iliac; secondly, the internal iliac sent an artery of com- mmication upon the sciatic nerve, to the internal circumflex artery. The gluteal artery *J;ave a large branch to the origin of the profunda ; lastly, the internal pudendal artery Sargely anastomosed with the obturator; the obturator, therefore, sprang in this case jjJrom two new sources, viz. from the internal iliac, and from the internal pudendal .rtery, and the obturator thus formed sent two branches of communication to the internal ircumflex artery. The arteria prof unda was in this case supplied from two sources lirectly from the gluteal, and more indirectly from the internal circumflex, by the ■bturator and ischiatic arteries. The external iliac artery was obliterated to the origin . f the internal iliac, as other arteries usually are when ligatures are made upon them to mhe first large anastomosing vessel. The principal agents then of the new circulation are She gluteal artery with the external circumflex, the obturator artery with the internal irtircumflex, and the ischiatic with the arteria profunda, and the obturator artery is applied with blood principally by the internal pudendal when the obturator arises from le epigastric artery.” (p. 429-31.) Both preparations are in St. Thomas’s Museum. In Cooper’s third case (a), eighteen years after the operation, “ the external iliac •tery was pervious to the extent of rather more than an inch from the bifurcation of ae common iliac, but had become somewhat diminished in size, and altered in shape. No branches were given off from this portion of the vessel, which, when filled with hjection, presented a conical form, tapering downward to a mere point, and terminating a rounded cord which constituted the remaining part, or the obliterated portion of the jrtery, and was continued down to the spot where the operation had been performed. I'he ligature had probably been applied just above the origin of the circumflex and Digastric branches, although no evidence remained to indicate the precise spot. Just ove Poupart’s ligament the iliac artery became suddenly restored, (apparently by the iflux of blood from the branches mentioned above,) and assumed about half its natural ze. The obliterated vessel presented the appearance of a continuous unbroken cord, •om the cessation of the iliac above to its restoration below. * * * The vessel liavin o- igained about half its natural size, passed into the thigh and was continued without ■ceiving any accession from collateral vessels, until it reached the origin of the profunda • •om which branch the trunk appeared to derive a large quantity of blood, sufficient to re- .ore it to the ordinary extent of calibre which the femoral possesses in a stout muscular mb; the remaining portion of the femoral artery below the profunda presented nothin o- nusual in its appearance, and bore no indication of having received any further influx blood through collateral branches. Just above the origin of the profunda, the femoral Irtery had become distorted, and irregular in shape, and was rendered somewhat iVior!"6 Y 1 C°n"ex.lon WI‘h what aPPeared t0 be the remains of the aneurismal sac anterl0r surfa?e °f thei vessel and gluing it to the adjacent muscles and • . There can be but little doubt that the original opening of communication ween the sac and the femoral trunk had existed at this spot, viZSjustToveTe ■ X S6em fYal,y aPParent that, as the aneurismal tumour i Kspl i teiated in the progress of the cure after the operation, the opening into the i itas mabnrZl 5^’ Whlle *e of the al’terial trunk, above and Mow the 1 MnS2dtt-UT TTe- The collateral circulation had, in this instance Lp! ,7? he jr,ctlon of the ilio-lumbar, obturator, gluteal and ischiatic - ranches from the internal iliac, with the circumflex and epigastric of the external Riac ? hli thefemrL Theyconsisted°ffeofcoriSgy^ I irface Of thodRlr-e-PftlY1,y °T 1 ie fore Part> the internal side, and the poISr n rticulation rWfJ°'nt’ and may,bu descr>bed as forming a circular plexus around the luX?-T^I,lg amor'g the muscles of that region. * * * The iliMumb - > Zc, bit it dots'nm annear ^ en“sly dilated- Theinternal pudic is also of large i >. 48-50 'I n;c° aPPcar. to furnish any direct communication with the femoral ” * °') Thls Preparation is in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital.] I Jfnce be.8it“at?d i» ‘he lower third of the thigh, or at 'he r,„|s;! f ; ' l8 bcst ‘° ''f f/ppral artery ia the following manner. here it is oni,? j., 7 Sl“'"1:1 he followed from the groin downwards, and . oout two nS " lS‘,n<;tIy ? ' “ ‘° be tbe e"d of a c“‘. which begins , ‘wo and a half mehes below PoorAttT's ligament, and descends on (a) Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. 183G.