REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. 2° {u) Iruitc des Maladies Chimrgicales, vol. ii. in a common hernial sac; in young subjects, with large ruptures, which cannot be properly kept in their place by any truss; in partial adhesions between the protruded parts and the hernial sac, or the testicle in congenital rupture. 2. In very fat or thin persons in whom the truss always shifts, for the purpose of restricting by the operation, the protrusion of the rupture, and thereby to strengthen the effect of the truss. 3. When scarcely any truss will fit; for instance, in lame persons, or if the testicle lie completely in the groin. 4. Questionable femoral ruptures, because in these there is little benefit from insecure application of the truss, and the danger being greater in existing strangu- lation. But in all these cases, the rupture can be kept up by the proper construction of the truss, and its application in the supine posture. If hydrocele exist at the same time, repeated puncturiug auswers the purpose better (a). [English Surgeons have rarely employed either of the methods proposed for the radical cure of ruptures, except the constant application of a truss, which, however, is admitted to he rarely successful, except in young persons and very recent ruptures. Asti.f.y Cooper removed the entire sac in a case of femoral rupture, and “ passed stitches through its mouth, so as to bring the edges into perfect contact. * * * On the sixth day the ligatures came away, and the wound was healed on the tenth. A month afterwards I saw the woman,” says he, “ and was surprised to find that another hernia had formed on the same spot, which was already as large as that for which the operation was performed. * * * It appears, therefore, that the removal of the sac will not prevent a return of the disease; and, indeed, when it is recollected that the aperture from the abdomen continues of the same size after, as before the operation, and that the peritoneum will still remain the only obstacle to the descent of the intestine; it does not appear probable that this highly extensible membrane should succeed in preventing a return of the same hernia, the just formation of which it was unable to resist.” (p. 62.) Astley Cooper objects to the plan of making a ligature round the mouth of the hernial sac, not only that its object, gradually to cut away the sac, is inefficient, as shown in the’ preceding observation, but also because “ it cannot even be securely done ; for first the spermatic cord is often divided by the sac, so that one part of it passes behindhand’ t,h“ott!er.befo,'c> or °“ tbe side of the sac. When this happens, it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible to conduct the operation in such manner as to avoid injuring parts which should never be touched. Secondly, this operation is founded on mistaken ideas of the hernial sac; for a ligature applied as proposed, at the abdominal ring, if it cut through the sac, must leave a hernia above it, with a sac still open as before; and the ligature cannot be employed to the part of the sac lying above the ring, without splitting up the tendon of the external oblique muscle, which would take off so much ot the natural support of the parts, as almost certainly to allow of a future descent. Iniraly, the danger of the operation is a principal objection. A ligature applied around a part of the peritoneum must inflame it; and as this membrane is continued wi hout interruption along the sac into the cavity of the abdomen, the inflammation will follow the same course, and expose the patient’s life to hazard.” (p. 62.) In support of SvJfpteri°nJeCu0n’POOP,ER rfTs t0 Petit’s (*) experience. “ I opened the tumour,” says the latter, “and replaced the omentum; I then detached the sac, and tied it as I had seen done, and dressed my patient. In two hours time I was much surprised at T h^Vng f .m**saSe that great pain over the whole belly, and severe gripings and£on™° 'e Pat,e'lt- f:lncy.ng that the intestine might have slipped into the ring found^n raT ated b?\w,hen *he dressings were taken off, and nothing was cu tl l V :.1 COnC,ud,ed that the mischief had been caused by tying the sac. I ’f turf. and removed it, and dressed the parts simply ; the symptoms were I W V rehe,ved’ ??d ceased entirely in an hour. This is not the only observation lieaturp^'f t6°n ^ subject,; a11 1 have seen has confirmed me in the opinion, that the membrane llT1 °r m °ther termS’ °f the Pcritolleitm, since the sac is formed by that fine ™c^no^donht S ?y,!nP ? very ’ke those caused by strangulation of the ffites- that those whom I have seen perish after the employment of the fp 339 ) h dlL‘d fr°m lnflammation of the belly, caused by tying the sac.” thh^A0™ t0 thG tamC conelusion in regard to the proposed operations for noVuS SdSn^-Tl « belieV?’’’ !ayS he’ “ that W one ofthe methods runtrre r.-oJ o A0 s calculated to attain the proposed object. Why does the protrusion, anYff stM furtherwr- k^fiT ri.nS.has been enlarged by the previous stricture This state of t! eakened by the incision necessary for removing the crare. this state of the tendinous openings would not be altered by closing the ( > Par° HMSELBAeH’ Firr^W1?’ ?• 77ni 5 in Journal,March. 1841