[ 481 ] If I —OF THE ACCUMULATION OF SEROUS AND PURULENT FLUID IN THE MEDIASTINA. 1908. A collection of water in the anterior mediastinum (Hydrops v iediastini) occurs only in connexion with dropsy of other kinds. More jquently a collection of pus or blood takes place in the mediastinum, in linsequence of an external wound which has penetrated the breast-bone, i lias injured its surface only after inflammation of the mediastinum, | Pleuritis Sternalis,) or it follows carious destruction of the breast-bone. [ 1909. The signs of such accumulation are more or less uncertain. If ■ ere be symptoms of inflammation of the mediastinum, fever, difficult heathing, pain behind the breast-bone, which generally extends down- irds towards the pit of the stomach, upwards towards the air-tube, and ll.ckgards towards the spine; if these symptoms be consequent on eternal injury, the pain subsides with frequent shiverings ; if the patient r<:bl a sensation of weight and pressure behind the breast-bone, if there be impression and hectic fever, no doubt can remain of the presence of pus 1 hind the breast-bone. If there be carious destruction accompanied with o,(fistulous opening, the introduction of a probe and the more free escape ? pus in particular positions of the patient, besides the above-described ■ :mptoms, point out the nature of the disease. If, soon after the breast-bone has been injured by external violence, difficult breathing, rsssure and weight behind the breast-bone, and general symptoms of hidden hfemor- • cage occur, an extravasation of blood has taken place into the mediastinum. 1910. When the existence of extravasation into the mediastinum is i certained, its removal is necessary, must not be long delayed, and is 1 fected by perforating the hr east-hone (Perforatio, Trepannatio.) This ■eration may be also necessary, in addition to the above-mentioned dis- V ses> for the purpose of removing a dead piece of the breast-bone, or in ■ der to make the reduction of a fracture possible (par. 624.) The part i which the perforation is to be made is directed according to the different fleets of the operation : thus, in extravasation, the aperture is to be made •posite it, and where possible at the lowest part; if the ends of a fracture driven in, upon the still firm remaining part of the bone near the edge at is depressed ; and in caries must be so made upon it, that all the ' seased part may be removed. I cut *s to ke made about an inch and a half in length along the iddle line of the breast-bone through the skin, its middle correspondino- t ,‘“e l)art to be perforated. The edges of this wound are then drawn inder by assistants, the periosteum cut through to the extent of the ') Tan-crown, and then removed with a scraper. The perforation is best £ mi 44i \ Vrephine’ accor<Jing to the rules laid down in trepanning ■ I he perforated bone must be lifted out with an elevator, and T y connexions with the internal periosteum divided with the knife. | th a trocar VuhoumiTa!iula*^J°D° is stiU ^tilagiuous, the perforation can be made d sonnir, er 10 lc;0 ecte< Pu'(* Pas been discharged by proper posture h ece of if Up Wlth ,a sP0,1ge) .a simple dressing must be applied, and a 1 stenerl fp,r?at^ ointment introduced into the wound ' Lndaee rr|S ”C r^ P^as*;er’ an^ bound on with a scapular and chest vol ir 10 (Mter~^rea^ment depends on the ensuing symptoms of 2 r