. 680 CAUSE AND TREATMENT OF SPINA VENTOSA. Matter. The Cure of the Spina ventosa in the lesser Bones, as the Cranium, Jaw Fingers, and Toes is feasable ; but those in the bigger Bones are for the most partdeploi able. Infants and Children are generally the subject of this Disease.” (pp. 262, 63.)] | 2221. The ground of Spina ventosa lies in an inflammation and ulcera tion of the medullary membrane of the bone, upon which depends the de struction of the bone from within outwards. The most common cause c* this complaint is scrofula, although also syphilis, gout, rachitis, scurvy small-pox, and the like, as well as external violence, particularly bruised and concussions may give rise to it. The tubular bones, especially tli metacarpal, metatarsal, and finger bones, are most frequently attacked b> this disease ; but very rarely are the short and spongy bones, as the carpa and tarsal affected with it. The degeneration of the spongy ends of bones which has been considered with the different affections of the joints;) { par. 221,) may indeed be placed, together with Spina ventosa, in the coma pact structure of tubular bones. In most cases, especially in the finger ano metacarpal bones of scrofulous persons, Spina ventosa consists in tuber cular formation in the bone, and according to the degree of softening ir the tubercular mass, does the nature of the contents of the swelling vary Hence the death of the bone is caused to a definite extent, and on its throwing off does the cure first commence. In this disease, ordinarily, no new bone is produced, probably because the periosteum and the medullary membrane of the bone are destroyed. Hence also the bone,: after the cure of the disease, is considerably shorter, and the correspond* ing finger drawn backwards. 2222. From the symptoms which accompany the development and* further progress of Spina ventosa, the distinction between it and exostosis, ' osteosteatoma, or osteosarcoma, must, in many cases, be very difficult., Spina ventosa may indeed be distinguished from exostosis, inasmuch as it involves the whole circumference, whilst exostosis is more cir-' cumscribed and confined to one definite part of the bone; the irregu- larities, however, which Spina ventosa at first exhibits, and the thicknessof the soft parts covering it, render the certain knowledge of the difference - between them very difficult. In regard to external form, Spina ventosa, for the most part, agrees with osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma; its deve- lopment, however, is in most cases more tedious than in both those dis- • eases, and the pain is more severe and constant. 2223. Spina ventosa is a disease of importance, slow and difficult to cure, and proportionally more so when attacking adults. In general its treatment corresponds at the commencement of the disease with that already directed for exostosis, osteosteatoma, and osteosarcoma. Suitable remedies must be employed to counteract the internal causes, and the great hope in young persons, when the disease has originated in scrofula- rests on the use of antiscrofulous remedies; and by the often occurring . total change of the constitution, at the period of puberty, the cure may be brought about, under which circumstances the necrosed pieces am thrown off from the diseased bone, and the fistulous openings close. Poultices of aromatic herbs, of decoction of savine, baths of camomile, of hemlock, and the like, serve for local applications If the tumour have burst, aromatic baths anil poultices must be employed, and a free outflow given to the pus. For assuaging the very severe pain, frequen poulticing with hemlock, sometimes with the addition of opium, must H“ ' employed ; but if the disease have reached such degree that the powers