INVERSION OF THE WOMB. 121 ligatures with a single needle and to tie them on each side to prevent slipping; it must, however, be borne in mind that the intestines may have descended in the place of the inverted womb. [When the inverted womb falls out of the body, drawing with it the vagina, and increasing weakness is produced by the quantity of the discharge, “ if this case is left to itself, the woman,” observes Clarke, “ either drags on a miserable existence for a number of years, or her life is cut short by the constant drain. Cases of this kind can receive very little benefit from external applications; and it is obvious that not much is to be expected from internal medicines. Powdered chalk or lapis calaminaris, sprinkled upon the part, may check the discharge a little; the oxide of zinc may in some measure abate its quantity; but it will not remove it altogether; and the same observation will apply to astringent applications generally. The following application may have a beneficial effect:—R liq. calcis jiv., mucil. sem. cydon. Jvj. M. * * * It may be considered more prudent, if the discharge diminishes in consequence of such applications, to persevere with them, rather than to risk any danger which may arise from an operation! In those cases of inversion of the uterus, where the woman has passed the menstruating age, where her comfort is destroyed by the disease, and where the profuseness of the discharge threatens her with death from the debility which it produces, it may be ad- visable to recommend the performance of an operation, which has been in many instances attended with success, and from which the author has known a patient recover after she has attained the age of sixty ; this operation is the removal of the inverted uterus itself. Although it is not expedient to subject a patient labouring under a chronic inversion of the uterus during the menstruating portion of her life, under ordinary circumstances, to the danger of the removal of the organ, the system of a woman may be so drained by the excessive discharge as to warrant the performance of the operation.” (pp. 157, 58 ) It does not appear that the removal of the inverted womb by ligature lsdangerous- the eases treated by Clarke himself, as well as those he quotes, did well • so also Blundell’s case, and he observes:—“ Indeed, I have not heard even of any’cases in which the operation has been followed by fatal consequences; though such cases must I presume, occasionally occur.” (p. 145.) In one of Clarke’s cases, “ a strong silken ligature was used, and although nearly three weeks elapsed before the uterus was separated, during which symptoms of inflammatory action presented themselves in full force, with vomiting and diarrhcea, the result was most successful, and perfect health x i rb rT : .» L ^ lcouu buccessnu, ana perfect health P was restored, tp. 1 o9.) In another, in which the operation was performed by Chevalier ‘ a IlSatur? was* applied round the contracted part of the tumour, that is where the M/prw.« tprminflfpn nnrl flin Ta A* l-x i -1 ... , C « rr - . puui me iumuur, xnac is, wnere the uterus terminated, and the vagina began. It was tightened daily, until about the eleventh or twelfth day, when the parts included in the ligature were absorbed, and the uterus fell off. During this time the patient complained of very little pain.” (p. 163.) Blundei i applied the ligature with Hunter’s needle, as in the case of polypus, and in eleven days the uterus came away; it sloughed, and softened down, so as not to separate bodily in he forni of uterus, and the recovery of the patient was complete.” (p 144 5 r.,' j v. Joseph Clarke s case (o), “ the pressure by ligature, which the partially inverted'uterus re for many days, not only with impunity, but with decided benefit to the future health its'rmiraw,^le Juad 111 g feature of this case. When the uterus became completely inverted’ » ^ ”d p“ie°l's pre™us 600,1hoa,th a Ijr' Sv)10N'DS of Oxford (6) applied a ligature in a case of inverted womb in a voune- woman, eighteen years of age, two years and a half after the delivery of a livine ehihf -the placenta been long retained, and was brought away with g/eat violence T P' ind the abdominal cavity of a circular f™™ VI °i?eii Pass.a£° between the vagina (<0 Edinburgh Medical Annals, vol. ind also quoted as above by Clarke. ii. p. 419, (6) North of England Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. i. p. 149. W*