15 REDUCTION OF RUPTURES. parts and to prevent their reprotrusion. This treatment is either palliative by wearing a truss, or radical, by the organic closing of the hernial opening. 1144. The reduction of a rupture {Taxis, Repositio Hernia;, Lat • Zuriickbringung eines £ ruches, Germ.; Repoussement de la Hernie, Fr.) is best effected early in the morning, when the bowels are empty, and the person is in a position, in which the walls of the belly are as much as possible relaxed, and the place of the rupture is most raised; therefore on the back, with the rump raised, the knees drawn up, and the body inclined towards the side on which the rupture is. Previous emptying of the urinary bladder, and of the large intestines with a clyster or purge will facilitate the taxis. The manoeuvre of the reduction itself consists in a sufficiently moderate pressure upon the whole swelling, according to the direction in which it has been protruded ; or in the greater size and more oblon°- form of the hernial swelling, the fingers of the right hand are to be applied from the bottom around the swelling, the thumb and the other fingers of the left hand upon the two sides of the abdominal opening, and then it is to be attempted with the right hand to return the rupture according to its direction, whilst with the fingers of the other hand the parts returned are to be kept up. Often the taxis operates very easily, but often a part of the contents of the intestine must be first returned by a moderate pressure on the rupture. During the reduction the patient must avoid all contrac- tion of the walls of the belly. In proper positions of the body, small ruptures often return of themselves. TnJl.^o-pttteimptl^gfth? reduction of a rupture by the taxis, it is always advisable to make gentle and steady pressure over the whole swelling for a few minutes in order to mnpty into the belly any fluid contained in the sac, so that the protruded gut or omentum : - efipSr-o. Surgeon oftenTncirhe'has retamefa lai^ portbn^f tlTpSu^ hen in reality not the least part of it has moved, as the exposure of the bowel W the very doubtful k ’r4/*8 the success of a subsequent operation caution" and witTmoderate 5 th^fore be attempted only1 with great the rupture cannot be reduced bv thp / P!"essur®.- ^ a^ter the warm bath and bleeding, is best to pSKSpS^*" aiPphe? DOt bey°nd half an hour, I think it it will happen that after the C > ’ a*leastdangerous to the patient. Occasionally succeed irfrlrning the ruptur^ or L * ^7? ffiled’ the Patient himself will bowel return spontaneously in consemiPnpp pf smhlenly become very faint, and the the peristaltic action of the’intestines within the^Pliluxation of the parts permitting the body, acting upon the portion within u ^ bel y> or some accidental movement of effected, the rlturTsSn w tE Z’ t0 its Place> ^ich remedy to empty the vessels of the part. application of ice, or any other Surgeon™?reduceTrupturo 'Satensteat'Tof6-^11161'! by t,1G paticnt himself or by the ruptuie, mat instead of its contents merely being reduced, as in