372 TREATMENT OF great and to an almost dangerous extent; thirdly, where there is a disposition i rigors, the application of the caustic is almost certain to produce them ; and frequeutl the application of the caustic induces rigors where there had been no manifest dispositk to them previously; fourthly, unless used with caution, the application of. caustic ma induce inflammation of the parts situated behind the stricture, terminating in the form; tion of abscess. I have known some cases of abscesses formed under these circur stances, which, from their peculiar situation, have proved more troublesome and mo; difficult to manage than the original disease.” (pp. 61, 2.) Upon the same point Lawrence says“ From the various results which attend tl free employment of caustic in the urethra, I think that we may safely say it is a mode treatment not applicable to bad cases of stricture; that is, cases where the change •; structure is considerable, and the contraction is very extensive ; and in cases not so serio1 we know that the application of caustic is not necessary, for the simple bougie, sound. silver catheter, will accomplish the object we have in view. The use of caustic has, general, been very little favoured on the continent; they have generally healed stnctarv there without it, and have been averse to it from knowing its ill effects; it has be* partially employed in this country, but never got into very great use, and I believe k been generally less and less used, so that at present it is but seldom adopted in the treat ment of stricture of the urethra." (p. 802.) . , , With these opinions, as to the disadvantage of using caustic, I fully concur; and 1 rare employ it in treating strictures. Another reason may also be given against it, which i that though for a time, that time only, however, when the slough of the cauterized strictm has been thrown off, and the part is still sore, it may enlarge the passage of the urethr yet as the sore surface heals a new and closer scar is formed, by which the previous narrowed passage will be necessarily rendered still smaller. Every young student knov. the common mode of contracting apertures in the soft, and even in the hard palate, 1 producing sloughs of their margin, with the certain knowledge that the subsequent?| forming scar will diminish the size of the hole, and that a repetition of the same practi will at last completely obliterate it. And the result must be the same by its applicant to a stricture, although at first there may be a seeming improvement. 1 must comess', cannot understand the reason why, although objecting to the use of caustic under circumstances, Asti.ey Cooper allows it when there is pennaeal fistula.. J. h. o.J 1700. Cutting into the stricture, and subsequent dilatation,, lias bee also recommended for its more speedy removal ; and for this purpo; various modes of proceeding have been advised. 1 he older ^urgeo* used the trocar and the pointed sound (a). Doerner (b) recommended- tube through which a stilette, with a lancet point, should be passe* Dzondi (c) a catheter open at its end, through which a lancet-shape knife could be carried forwards and backwards ; and in like manner ais McGhie (d), Amussat (e), Despiney (/), Dieffenbach (y), and chou (Ji). These modes can only be employed with safety in short m not very tight strictures. The proper use of bougies and caustic; ce tainly render it unnecessary, and it can only be considered as in l when neither dilatation nor repeated cauterization have any resu > the stricture remains hard, and the urethra does not acquire its calibre. . f,] Jameson (i) seeks for the causes of stricture in an unnatural transverse fibres of the m. accelerator urina, at its fore part, which cr j right angle, as well as of the same part of the m. levator am, in contt urethra. For the radical cure of this disease, he cuts through the just namea partly through the penis, and partly through the perinaum. (а) Lafaye and Viouebi ; in Chopart, above ' cited, vol. ii. p. 328.—Allies, Traite des Maladies de l’Uretre. Fans, 1735. p. 73. (б) Vorschlag eines neuen Mittels, liartnackige Harnrdhrenvorengerungen Icicht und aus dem Grunde zu lieben ; in von Sikbold’s Chiron., vol. i. i; e) Above cited, pi. ii. vfcdedne, vol. : ) Archives generates de Medecin , V (c) Gescliichte des klinisclien Institutes fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde zu Ilalle. 1818. P'(dj Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xix. p. 301, L823. p. 140. 1826. May. . nJllpr. P- 11 (fl'l Hf.ckf.r’s allgem. A. i^hind f* 182(1. The cut should be made " ™ilaWtion , wards. Proper instruments for tli recommended. (A) Above cited pi. ii.^v.FFORpAh^ of 1 tion and Incision of ‘ London, lk UOH 11I1U Aliciaivwa V. - ' _ Urethra bv the Lancet Stilettes ■o. Third Edition. 051 (i) Medical Recorder, 1824, Apnl, P- bvo