943 AT THE KNEE. 2i 13. Amputation of the ley at the knee-joint, heretofore recommended by GuiXjLemeau in 1612, and by Fabricius Hildanus, has been consi- dered by most writers as improper, or inferior to amputation through the continuity of the thigh. Brasdor, J. L. Petit, and Hoin have recom- mended it; and Volpi, Kern, Textor, Langenbeck, Velpeau, and others have shown the applicability of this mode to those cases, where in consequence of the extensive destruction of the front of the lea-, amputa- tion through it is not possible, though there may still remain soft parts for covering the condyles, if exarticulation be performed. Many Surgeons object to it unconditionally, as Zang, Larrey, Dupuytren, and others. From Jaeger’s (a) collection of the published cases of amputation at the knee-ioint a^unfav^ ab°Ut twentytwo have had a favourable, and fourteen’ 2774. Exarticulation at the knee-joint may be formed either with the ap or the circular cut. The patient is placed as in amputation through the thigh; and the femoral artery compressed by an assistant, or with°a tourniquet. }n t,he a™Putation with the flap cut, it is best to make the flap rom the back of the leg in the following mannerAfter the femoral artery has been properly compressed, and the leg being held straight out the ass,slant who holds the thigh, draws the ski,? back? With a Ita.ghl small amputating knife, a transverse, or a semilunar (Sabatier, Tea Tor,) U is made through the skin, from one condyle to the other. The eg is now bent to tighten the ligament of the knee-cap, and the Surgeon • grasping it with the left hand, cuts through with the same knife °first his ligament, then the lateral ligaments, and, lastly, the crucial ligaments He then takes a larger amputating knife, carries it close to the hind sur’ ; face of the shin-and splint-bones, some little distance down, and forms m cutting obliquely downwards, a flap sufficient to cover the exposed joint- s rolfl, , er •l,e Tessels 1,ave bee" the flap C! bSd , fJ1 oug-ht close into contact with the front edge of the skin nnd th0 I dressing applied, as after amputating the leg with a single flap. ’ MvtiwSS modes of proceeding are less convenientFirst, According to Blan nrLia Whe“.thc.Patlent has been placed on bis belly, and the femoral artervif™*' through H|Cat 'r >S paSScd, at the j°int’ above the hones from one side to the other are connected with each other by an arch and the two fin, l°th Hle knee’ whlch ssected back and turned over • the litrament of i ‘ P‘ thereby described, are dis- ^arried into the joint and eveJyth n|Tut thrL 'h tben d^ided, the knife I narrow straight knife is to be thrus“Sth^ffih{ft5„f^IS!ng. t0- ,MaIngaui-t 00, a 1 llnd the knee-cap, but before and below * i nt,?“ the lnside of the thigh, be- aent of the knee-can thTLZtl I™ C0,1<1>k'’ and by carrying it down the liga- hin-bone. This flap is then raised STKl^dT t0 thu tubercle of tbe r7drawing the knife down, the hinder fl-m L • ciucial ligaments cut through and | ts “ s to to to t 5 ' ,f"r di,idl”e “>• Utoto " hind 'flap ofVS’ohe” istjd.®” ‘”e' *"d jn) Ilandworterbuch <lcr Chirurgie, vol ( r)ijti?.nn'lire de Medicine. ■ niun, vol. n. p. 282. i. p. Article slmpu- Turin/lHOS. d# MM* °Ptat- vol‘ «• P- 227. T^pt.'cvm 4‘ef;TF,ton,K1,’s Chirurg. Kupf.