239 FACIAL, TEMPORAL, AND OCCIPITAL ARTERIES. i tery tied from below upwards, immediately above the great horn of the tongue-bone, j the artery is to be tied still more distant from its origin, it is not necessary to cut into i e fleshy fibres of the hypoglossal muscle. The artery otherwise runs through suffi- I ?nt extent before it passes under any muscle. 1445. The external maxillary or facial artery is tied at the angle of J e lower jaw in the following manner. A cut is to be made on the inner i Ige of the masseter muscle, running obliquely downwards and outwards, the extent of an inch or a little more through the skin, cellular tissue, < id fibres of the m. platysma myoides. In this direction the cellular tissue i id some threads of the facial nerve are cut through; and the edges of < e wound being separated, the artery appears on the inner edge of the i asseter muscle, lying on the periostceum ; and close to it, on the outer side, 1 the facial vein; these are drawn outwards, and the artery isolated with se. : This artery can be tied in its submaxillary part only with the greatest difficulty, i inec (a) declares himself against this operation, because the artery lies very deeply, i: d is covered by very many parts. Velpeau and Dietrich have given the modes of iceeding in this operation. By the former, an incision is made from the submaxillary i ind to the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then a second from the hinder l of the great hom of the tongue-bone to the inner edge of the masseter muscle, ough the skin and m. platysma myoides, and the Tap so formed should be turned back j wards. The edges of the wound are to be kept asunder, the flap held up, and the now 0 played aponeurosis, from which the ai-tery is only separated by cellular tissue, must be 1 through, in doing which the facial vein is sometimes divided, between the sub- " brillary gland and digastric muscle; after this the artery is to be isolated and tied ween the great horn of the tongue-bone and the submaxillary gland. According to 5 etrich, the cut should be made two lines from the under edge of the jaw, directly i wn, rather obliquely outwards and downwards, to the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid scle. The facial vein is never to be cut through, but separated from the submaxillary t nd, and carried outwards or inwards, as may be most convenient. The hypoglossal I 've is to.be taken care of. The artery passes under the stylo-hyoid muscle, at the point ; ere it is perforated by the digastric muscle, about half an inch from its insertion in the ! gue-bone. The muscles together with the nerves, are to be separated from the cellular A ue, and carried downwards, and the ligature passed around the vessel from without ; uards, and from below upwards. 1446. Aneurysms of the temporal artery, occurring after wounds, may ns often cured by compression, as I have seen in one instance, when aneu- X>;m occurred after arteriotomy; if this be not possible, the temporal cr ery must be tied. The position of the artery is to be first well ascer- f bed by feeling with the finger, and then along its course a cut an inch in •( igth is to be made through the skin, midway between the joint of the j»v and the auditory passage; a director is then to be introduced beneath ! pretty thick cellular tissue by which the artery is covered, and this rung divided, the artery is to be isolated. The accompanying vein lies odhe outer side. .* 447. Aneurysms of the occipital artery rarely occur, though Meyer (b) ■ ntions a case in which, on account of aneurysm, many branches and l > trunk of the occipital artery were tied. J. Burns (c) also tied this W«el for an aneurysmal swelling. A cut is to be made half an inch f . ’ and a Ilttle beneath, the tip of the mastoid process, and continued v iquely upwards and backwards, to the extent of an inch or an inch and j 1'1.ar., • T,,e skin and aponeurosis of the sterno-mastoid muscle are to lit c’ f'u l!ie finRer carried under the upper lip of the wound, in to teel the base of the mastoid process. The m. splenius is then to ) Dissert de . . . . .. , (0 In *1,s brothers Surgical Anatomy of flit* " ’ „ "t,?nm.occ,Pllalls Ilead anA Neck, p. 374,-Manec, above cited, y - arionfc ocr ■ SCARPA, Translation, p. iy*J, note. pi. v.—Dietrich, above cited, p. l’u9.