LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE CUTTING GORGET. 591 i Iocs not depend on the mechanism of his instrument, but can modify its direction and efficiency at his pleasure. It is dangerous in unpractised hands, which, however, is also the case with every operation. The I entrance of the knife into the groove of the staff may be difficult; it may dip from it, and the rectum and bladder may be wounded. Langen- beck’s lithotome allows an easy and safe introduction into the groove of [he staff. 2084. The cut into the neck of the bladder and the prostate gland with j particular instrument, from without inwards. To this belongs the use : )f the cutting gorget, and of Le Cat’s bistouri cache. 2085. In using the cutting gorget, the nail of the left forefinger, after >i. he membranous part is laid bare by the external cut, is introduced into r he groove of the staff, and the membranous part of the urethra, laid open to *; tome extent by the bistoury carried upon it. The beak of the gorget is now jntered into the groove of the staff thus opened, upon the finger-nail still h •emaining there, the handle of the staff grasped with the left hand, and, tt ifier moving the gorget several times up and down, to ascertain that its :i leak is certainly in the groove, the gorget is pushed forward to the blunt k :nd of the staff, the staff removed, and the forceps introduced. ! The cutting gorget, invented by Hawkins (a), in 1753, has undergone various mo- & iifications, of which those by Desault (5), Cline (e), Astley Cooper (d), Scarpa (e), a; nd Graefe (/) are considered the best. I: [Although Sharp (g) states, that Cheselden’s lateral operation “is now (1751) the 96 practice of most English operators,’’ (p. 99,) yet it appears not to have been pursued for v ny great length of time, and, perhaps, not so largely as Sharp would seem to infer; as if t were practised by others with anything like similar success to that of Cheselden him- V . ilf, it would be scarcely probable that Serjeant Hawkins should have set about improv- 9 Qg the blunt gorget, by giving one of its sides a cutting edge, which he did between If 751 and 1754, for, “ after having mentioned the objections to the continued incision of k-ihe urethra, and prostate gland ” in the old way, or with the apparatus major, Sharp (A) ays:—“ I shall observe, that Mr. Serjeant Hawkins seems to have fallen on an inge- 9 ious contrivance, not only for removing them, but also giving the last hand towards iftierfecting the lateral operation.— [Though he should more correctly have said, altering H- ie old mode of dividing the prostate with the blunt gorget, by dividing it with a cut- Sc ng gorget, which was very different from Cheselden’s operation.—j. f. s.J —This he ly ffects by making his gorget to cut on the right side, so that when it is introduced upon 1/ ie staff, and pushed on into the bladder, it necessarily makes an incision on the left f ideof the urethra and prostate gland.” (pp. 212, 13.) As Hawkins’s gorget still re- i fined the form of the blunt gorget, except as to its cutting edge, it could not divide the V restate laterally, but upwards and outwards; or, as Scarpa observes, “ not laterally, fi ut rather at its upper part, towards the summit of the ramus of the ischium, and the arch • • the pubes ; an opening of all others, in the perinceum, the most confined, and present- f"'g the greatest impediment to the passage of the stone from the bladder” (p. 13) ; so * 'at the prostate was really not divided as in Cheselden’s operation. Hawkins’s ■< orget, which was pretty much like IIildanus’s conductor or blunt gorget, with the P', ,)n ttle middle, had a cutting edge about two-thirds of its length; but Else (i) ob- V 'rv™> that “ it should not cut the whole length of the instrument, as it will then do i 1Qch mischief by wounding the internal pudendal artery, which is pretty large, and i mnot be easily secured, therefore the gorget should not cut more than half an inch in 1 In? iV 1>a,u.as, De variis Calculum secanil Kit,. „.LuSd- Batav., 1751.—A. Louis e i. dissert, de Methode Hawkinsiani ii IaVia sect>one proestasitia. Paris, 1770. S’, A „„ u an<^"nS 'iber der Steinschnitt nacl ■ HAWKiNs’schen Methode; ii a 'r.LNac,hla;ss- vol> "• Part iv- v-180.—Haus •<' >n ^,Benrtheilun(? ilerHaWKiNs'schen Method f Blaaenstein op,,riren. Braunschweig I lethod* r^..BTe“erk,un«?n..ribei: Hawkiki pthrwi« ”emerkungen ubcr IIa «• fr'i K'm ; m ^i * * * * * * *l?ournal» vo1- P- I • iii f g1'1^ H 9^"ri,rg- Beobacht., vol. i. p. 22 (d) Saviony, Engravings, &c., pi. vi. fig. 4. (e) Mem. de l’Institut, vol. ii. p. 1.—Erinnerun- gen nbcr Hawkins sclineiddendes Gorgeret, nn Ausziehung des Blasensteines ; in Salzb. Med.- Chirurg. Zeitung, vol. i. p. 31.—Oi.i.ivikr, above cited, p. 1. pi. 1. (./) Bornsteines Prakt. Handbuch fiir Wund- ar-/,te, vol. iii. p. 98. Fifth Edition. I^ipzig. (//) Treatise on the Operations of Surgery. London, 1751. Fourth Edition. (A) Critical Enquiry into the present state of Surg-rv. London, 17.17. Third Edition. t0 MS. Lectures on Surgery.