236 TYING TIIE COMMON AND that vessel, or when the aneurysm is deep, and the artery must be tied . ‘ above it,) the cut must be carried either from the top of the cricoid carti- lage two inches upwards, in the direction of the inner edge of the'sterna] J mastoid muscle, or commenced at the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage.^ and, on the contrary, carried down a sufficient length along the j edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In this case the operation is to be 2 proceeded with as before, only the omo-hyoid muscle must be drawn ■ downwards. In other cases, when the skin, m. platysma myoides and cellular tissue are divided, the edges of the wound must be held asunder a thin layer of cellular tissue divided; and, in the triangular space formed at the lower end of the wound, by the crossing omo-hyoid muscle, at the ■ upper end of the wound, by the digastric muscle, and externally, by the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the artery must be isolated, as ' already mentioned (a). jjl jiff tp- The superior thyroideal vein above the cricoid cartilage, crosses the common carotid artery, and with it the laryngeal and pharyngeal vein, as well as some branches anasto- mosing with the external jugular vein, run together before the carotid, and partially It form some anastomoses. These veins must be avoided, and drawn upwards (1), and the » superior thyroideal artery inwards. [(1) I have on one or two occasions seen these veins wounded in tying the carotid artery; they bled very freely, but were soon stopped by a little pressure. — J. P. S.] 1441. When in one or other way the ligature has been carried round : the carotid artery, it must be fastened sufficiently tight with two single '' knots ; the one end of the ligature cut off near the knot, the other brought out of the wound by the shortest course, and the union of the edges of the wound effected with sticking plaster. Such symptoms may occur after : the operation as have been already generally mentioned. The patient 1 should be kept quiet in bed, with his head somewhat raised, and bent s1 forwards. On the fourth or fifth day the dressing is to be renewed. The ! patient should be treated antiphlogistically, according to the symptoms, / and with suitable antispasmodics, if cramps come on. After tying the : carotid, it is not uncommon that, on account of the great anastomosis, the pulsation in the sac reappears; no further increase, however, is to be! feared ; it gradually becomes weaker, and the sac diminishes. For the history of the ligature of the common trunk of the carotid artery, and the collection of the hitherto known cases, see Dietrich (b). [The following is the account of the dissection of the second case in which Asmr Cooper tied the left common carotid artery in 1808, for aneurysm (c), the patient : having died thirteen years after of apoplexy (cl). “ The disease of which he died sufficiently attested the freedom of the circulation, as well as its force in the cerebral vessels, on the side on which the carotid had been tied. The arteries on the left side of the brain were rather larger than those on the opposite side. The anterior cerebral sj artery was of the same size as its fellow : the middle cerebral larger than that on the right side, which was filled with coagulum and did not admit the injection. The large sire of the latter vessel is accounted for by the increased size of the communicating branch; •;> which receiving its blood from the basilary, had become as large as an ordinary radial artery. The basilary appeared to be of its usual capacity, although it was evi- ■ deutly the channel which supplied the middle cerebral artery. The blood probably found an easier course from the basilary, through the left communicating branch, than * I into the right corresponding vessels, which appeared rather diminished in size. From an inspection of the base of the brain after the vessels had been injected it immediately struck the observer, that the left side of the arterial circle of Willis was much more t developed than the right, and that the left side of the brain received its full share of j arterial blood. The anterior cerebral artery received its supply from its fellow ny means of the transverse branch : these vessels seemed to be of their usual size. ini' feme ip>1 itfik »*n krfth (fj) Dietbioh, above cited, p. 180. (6) Above cited, p. 182. (c) Med.-Chir. Trans., voL i. p. : vol. i. (d) Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol.