107 CAUSES. yet this lias also happened. Cruveilhier relates (a) an instance in -which the rectum, tilated and filled with stool, was drawn forwards a little above its extremity, and formed i funnel-like lengthening. And Cloquet figures (6) a case in which, with great en- argement of die rectum, a considerable finger-like process descended into the cavity of he inverted vagina.'] 1271. The Causes of prolapse of the womb are predisposing and occasional. The former consist in relaxation of the natural attachments of te womb by copious, long-continued flow of mucus, by frequent leliveries, specially if they be very quick, or difficult, and require artificial aid (1). The occasional causes are severe exertion, by which he abdominal muscles are violently contracted, raising heavy weights, -iolent pressure in going to stool, long-continued standing, and so on. They cause the prolapse the sooner they operate after delivery; and herefore the disease occurs most commonly in women of the lower ■lasses who have often borne children (2). In those who have not borne •hildren it is but rarely observed, and then severe violence must always iperate. or the attachments of the womb be relaxed by great previous flow if mwcms (3). During pregnancy the womb cannot easily protrude, and a :onsiderable prolapse is itself removed by the ascent of the womb. Cases ai’e mentioned (c) in which prolapse has occurred during pregnancy, and even luring delivery (4) ; in such, violent straining must have operated, and he diameter of the pelvis have been of great size. Any diseased change of he womb which increases its weight, for instance, polyps and so on, or sellings which press upon it, may favour its prolapse (5). [(1) Among the causes of prolapse of the womb, Blundell notices especially, a large >elvis; and he observes, that “ this descent of the uterus, to which all females may be subjected, when the parts are relaxed, occurs certainly most frequently where the pelvis s capacious, and not only in the earlier but sometimes in the later periods of gestation.” (2) JIamsbotham observes, that “ in the higher circles, indeed, these (last) causes do lot obtain ; and in them, therefore, we more often find it consequent on miscarriage or ccompanying a broken state of health. All women are aware of the necessity of con- inement after delivery of a mature foetus, and consequently, if they have it in their 'ower, they willingly follow the course prescribed for them. But when they have ■assed an ovum of only two or three months’ age, as they have suffered but little pain nd less discharge, and as they had scarcely been sensible of any enlargement in their erson before the miscarriage commenced, they consider the occurrence of little import; aey thmk confinement to the horizontal posture for two or three days quite sufficient, nd feel a longer restraint irksome, and in spite of advice and remonstrances will busy lemselves about their domestic affairs, while still the uterus is much too bulky and eavy to be sustained by its natural supporters.” (p 530.) He also states that “ a violent fit of coughing occurring soon after labour or abortion, r an attack of sneezing, although the woman may still retain the recumbent posture, is eiy to produce prolapsus; and it may be occasioned by a rupture of the back part of le vagina and penneeum.” (p. 530.) 1 1 cmarkable instance of prolapse of the womb in a young woman (a virgin) was her Elliotson s care in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in 1828 (d). She stated that « whilst 1 ® f Pcrson 0,lt of a coach, she suddenly felt intense pain in her back, and the uterus ■ ended and protruded beyond the os externum; its descent was accompanied by pro- Iia8e- She was immediately placed in bed and a Surgeon sent for, who id cver lin W%nb- In/? mTth aft.erwards> feeling herself quite well, she married, id from rl ,ifir‘,rn°n b ) I 'f penod has suffered exceedingly from pain in her back, epeated descents of the uterus, accompanied with haemorrhage.” (pp. 733, 34). (i) plthololde Cldrumiri.10 p.86.—Ducreuxand Portal ; in Sabatier,above Iri . .. . ... cited, p. 368.-Journal de Medecine, vol. xliii. n (c) IIarvey, Excrcitationcs de Partu, p. 518.— ABRicius, Progr. de foetfis vivi extractione, utero olapso. Helmst., 1748.—Haller's llixput. r. sel., vol. iii. p. 434.—Saviaru, above cited, p. 366, vol. xlv. p. 232.— Mullner, Wahrneli- mung ciner snmmt dem Kinds ausgefallenen Uebiirmutter. Niirnberg, 1771. (d) Lancet, 1837-28, vol. ii.