487 PUNCTURING IN ENCYSTED DROPSY. . ostlv changed, and dragged to one or other side. If the water be col- ]cte(f in several sacs, or there be also other kinds of degeneration, the veiling- can be only partially emptied by the puncture, and is then more distinctly felt, and may even be displaced. But if, with ovarian dropsy, ( iere be"also ascites, the kind of disease and the contents of the belly can ily perhaps be determined after previous tapping. Both ovaries are rarely •opsical at once; and the left is more frequently so than the right. According to Blasius (a), ovarian dropsy appears under three forms, as hydrops >/s idatidosus°saccutus, or cellulosus. In the first form, a number of hydatids are found nsneath the serous membrane of the ovary; in the second, the water is collected in a - Tstinct sac beneath the serous membrane; in the third, it is contained in numerous wills within the substance of the ovary. These cells are originally Graafean vesicles, • ive thick walls, hut in which openings are often formed by the pressure of the water, g , that several cells communicate together, or even tear on the surface next the cavity 'the belly, and discharge the water into it; or, in rare cases, when the Fallopian tube ■iis its open end applied to the ovary, the water escaping by the tearing of the corre- ^rdionding cell is discharged through the tube into the womb, and escapes by the vayitia; n which case, the patient, from time to time, loses a pale or discoloured bloody .'• sinking water, by which the swelling of the ovary is at the same time remarkably diminished, and the inconvenience, which it had at first caused, frequently subsides. :;uny immediate external violence is not necessary to cause this. Blasius has collected • camples of this kind, and has distinguished it as hydrops ovarii profluens. 1922. As puncturing an encysted dropsy, and especially that of the (Vary, is only a palliative, various modes of proceeding have been proposed : or the radical cure. After making the puncture, the canula of the •ocar should be left in, to diminish the size of the sac, and then by enlarging the wound to excite adhesive inflammation, or by introducing a >j .exible tube to keep up the discharge. Ollenroth (b), after first : taking the usual puncture, thrusts in a round-ended tube through the % inner. leaves it there some days, empties the fluid several times a day, and pplies moderate pressure on the belly. Le Dran (c) made an opening ffito the sac upon a director introduced through the trocar canula, or im- mediately upon it, to the extent of four or five inches, held the wound .pen, and endeavoured by injection or by the introduction of wadding to - 'estroy the sac, or bring about its growing together. Littre (d) effected y Bis by injection. Chofart and Desault (e) opened the sac with caustic, • y which it gradually flaked off. Dzondi (f) opened the sac with a cut, assed in a bougie, and separated the loose sac with forceps. King (<7), Vest (/t), and Jeaffreson (i), puncture the swelling and enlarge the {Wound, or make a cut on a fold of the wall of the belly, open the peri- r imaum, carry a ligature through the exposed cyst, empty it with a punc- ure, draw theswelling gently forward, put a ligature around its stalk, cut ff the sac in front of the ligature, and then unite the wound. But when here also exists degeneration of the ovary, or complete steatomatous altera- 1 >on, in which the former modes of treatment can have no satisfactory result, ') ;or the purpose of effecting a radical cure, De la Porte and Morand (h) proposed the extirpation of the diseased ovary; and L’Aumonier (Z), ^OT7rnontatio <'c H yd rope Ovnriormn pro- d 1H34. W.J) > Kjghter, Anfangsgrfinde, vol. v. p. 165- r.«lM*m0’r0 de VAca‘'- de Chirurg., vol. ii. (<0 Meni.de I’Aawl. des Sciences. 1707, p. 502. (e) CEuvres Ghirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 238. (/) BeitrSge 7.11 r Vervollkommung der Heil- knnde, vol. i. Halle, 1816. (g) Lancet, 1836-37, vol. i. p.586. (A) Ibid., 1837-38, vol. i. p. .>07. (i) Transactions or Provincial Medical Associa- tion, vol. v. p. 239. 1837. (A) Mem. de l’Acad. de Chiiurgie, vol. ii. p. 452 p. 455. (1) Ilist. de la Soc. Roy. do Mcdecine, vol. v. p. 296. 1782