897 AFTER AMPUTATION. The stump should be kept as cool as possible, and when the patient is in bed, it is a very good practice to lay a thin, cold, wet linen rag lightly over the stump, and repeatedly renew it. The cradle (4) also, should be merely covered with a sheet, though the patient's trunk and other limbs should be sufficiently covered to keep him warm, without making him hot. (4) Cradles are generally made of half circles of stiff iron wire, the ends of which are fixed firmly in two pieces of wood, about eighteen inches or two feet long, as a base, above which the wires rise about twelve or eighteen inches, and support the bed-clothes away from the limb. As the comfort to the patient from the use of this apparatus is great, and it cannot always be obtained in country practice, directly when wanted, it is well to know how to make a substitute or makeshift. A common-sized, flat wash- tub hoop, sawn across, and each half sawn down the middle, furnishes the arches, two, three, or more, as may be needed, and these, having their ends nailed to a lathe on each side, make a very good cradle.—J. F. S.] 2697. The dressing after flap-amputation is to be put on in the same way, excepting that if but one flap be made, it must be laid over the surface of the wound, and its edge fitted closely to the corresponding j edge of the skin with sticking plaster and compresses, applied in the direction of the flap, and kept in place by a bandage, of which several •turns should pass over the front of the flap. If the amputation be with two flaps, both their surfaces must be brought together, and their edges made to fit completely, and so kept with the dressings already directed. Union of an amputation wound with sutures I consider injurious. t [I do not think it of much consequence whether sutures be used or not, in bringing ■ the edges of the wound together; sometimes I use them, sometimes not, as I feel ■(disposed at the time; but I have never seen any inconvenience arise from their em- n ployment, and therefore the Surgeon, I think, may use his own discretion, in regard. to Hhran.—J. F. S.] 6 ! 2698. If the amputation wound be to be cured by suppuration and granulation, then, after having put on the expulsive bandage, a pledget Ipread with mild ointment must be inserted between the edges, straps i >f plaster laid transversely across, to bring its edges together, and after- wards a compress and bandage, as already mentioned. [I can scarcely imagine a case in which this treatment of a stump can be called for. 'ccasionally, indeed, it happens that the surface of a stump will become sloughy, nd then must unite by granulatiou ; but to make a positive determination to promote lion by granulation from the first, can hardly be warranted under any circumstances. -J. F. S.J 2699. The further treatment of the patient and of the wound must be -inducted according to the rules laid down for wounds in general. The accidents which may ensue after amputation are, after-bleeding, olent inflammation, erythism, torpor, gangrene, very copious secretion id bagging of matter, nervous symptoms, protrusion of the bone, suppu- tion, and exfoliation of its edge, and ulceration of the soft parts. 2700. The patient should observe the strictest bodily and mental quiet, n the first day he should take merely a little broth and almond milk. An Instant conversant with the use of the tourniquet should be near him ; Td dressings and every necessary for tying vessels should be in the bed- -infflamber. |df nothing untoward occur, if the general reaction keep up, and if in B-stump inflammation ensue within the bounds necessary for the union J't ie wound, the dressing may be left till fouled by the discharge front I" W0U['d, or its renewal on account of ill smell be required. If the dis- wirge be very slight, it often dries up quickly, and the dressings may V,°L' "• 3 M