THROUGH THE RECTUM,—WHEN PREFERABLE. 615 M incj not by Yacca’s proceeding, as it is prevented by the valve-like pro- fusion of the wall of the bowel cut into below; and still more as the ex- crement, in consequence of the division of the sphincter, meets with less obstruction from the natural passage. Fistulas indeed not unfrequently emain after this operation, but they communicate only with the mem- branous part of the urethra ; a little stool is passed rarely by the urethra, ;;il ind but little urine by the rectum, and nothing gets into the bladder. On >q :his point Wenzl’s (a) remark is important, that the external cut should always be made sufficiently large, by which in part, during the operation, che sphincter causes less obstacle, but it especially prevents the external Bjwound contracting more quickly than the inner. The cure is indeed uixredious in many cases, but in others has been observed to be as quick as Min the lateral operation. As to the other objections, for instance, if the qiitone be very large, that the whole prostate must be cut through, the peri- 8iptmceum may be wounded, the introduction of the instruments is not easier, |j ind the pain in the glans penis after the operation is very violent; these, Tunder corresponding circumstances, apply to the lateral operation, and in n^egard to the complete division of the prostate, it must not be overlooked d hat here, perhaps, infiltration of urine is less to be feared than in the Jirateral operation, because the cut being in the bottom of the bladder, the 9i urine more readily escapes (5). 2119. If recto-vesical lithotomy be considered in reference to the results H jbtained to the present time, it is found to vary considerably with different tB'foperators. Some consider it more successful, some less successful, than K he lateral operation. It has indeed its weak points, and in general must Je put after the lateral operation, but it has two indisputable advantages, So wit, the slight danger there is to life, and that the bleeding is not langerous. Therefore, in particular cases, and where, on account of the ize of the stone, the cut above the pubes is required, and the walls of the MB rectum are healthy, it appears preferable to the high and lateral operation, rf also in old persons, and those who have little blood, with a more than tal noderately-sized stone. The following writers may be also referred to on this subject (<* Noethig, Ueber die verschiedenen Methoden des Blasensteinschnittes, besonders n iber den Steinschnitt durch den Mastdarm nacli Sanson. Wiirzb., 1818. Riberi; in Repertorio Medico-chirurgieo de Turino. No. 31-33. 1 ,Vacca Berlinghieri, Memoria sopra il metodo di estrare la Pietra della Vesica oriu- *yina per la via dell’intestino retto. Memoria terza. Pisa, 1823. *1 oooRNESE’ Essame delle osservatione sul Taglio retto-vesicale dal A. Scarpa. Milan ■io23. 1 n i Compte-Rendii Medico-Chirurgical des Observations recueillies a l’Hopital de la BL'liante de Lyon. Sec. partie, 1823. Sanson, Compte-Rendu de la Pratique Chirurgicale de l’Hotel Dieu de Lyon— jfjArchives generales de Mddecme, vol. vi. p. 83. ^ i Scarpa; in Annali Universali de Medicina, vol. xxx. p. 125. 1824. |Bl^S.8°Edbtarg^ 1P82°5 at°ry ESSay °n thG Extraction of Calcilli from the Urinary Smd vovIwYeber G!nif Met,hode,n Hamsteine aus der Blase zu ziehen; in von Graefe I uu V0N VValtiier s Journal, vol. vni. p. 530. \ J°Urnal Cwnplementaire du Dictionnaire des Sciences Mcdicales; Babbantini, Oeschichte eines Steinschnittes durch die Method©; In N. Chiror, (O Journal Complement, du Diet, des Sc. Med., vol. xvii.p. 128. 1823.—Dupuytren, Mumoirosur uno Nouvclle Manipro do pratiquer rOporation de la Pierre, publ. par Begin et Sanson, p. 13.