663 BY EXTIRPATION. K Although the use of a seton is not so dangerous a remedy as by many £ supposed, I have known, from my own experience, as well as that of litliers, fatal results, which seemed to me to depend on the unhealthy ^ uid copious suppuration which ensued when the seton had been drawn a hrougli the larger cavities of the bronchocele, the firm and cartilaginous > vails of which did not fall together, and foul ichor, collected from one siti Iressing to another, caused fatal reaction (a). 2184. Of similar operation to the seton is the emptying a bronchocele jg vith a sufficiently large cut, and exciting inflammation and suppuration T >y introducing lint into it. The front of the gland is laid bare, with a (longitudinal cut, the bleeding vessels tied, the swelling cut into an-d ai emptied of its contents, by pressure made upon it, lint introduced and sup- Kuration endeavoured to be excited by digestive remedies. This treatment n appears specially applicable in that kind of lymphatic bronchocele which ibrontains fluid in several small or large cavities, and withstands the use i(ij)f the internal and external remedies above mentioned, as well also as iwhen by the introduction of the seton dangerous symptoms are feared Si from the collection of foul ichor (b). > The mere puncturing and emptying the fluid in Struma cystica is only palliative, and I lie fluid soon re-collects, and frequently soon exceeds what it was before. Maunoir Bwas, after puncturing the swelling, thrown in irritating injections ; but experience does Sot speak in favour of this mode of treatment, as the fluid, if not very irritating, is of no se, and if it be, may produce very violent symptoms. The objections already made to le use of the seton apply also here, although it is used by many in this form of bron- 9U hocele. As notwithstanding the inlying of the seton the fluid oftentimes will not ; - tscape properly, the introduction of an elastic tube into the lower opening has been Hjf dvSed, through which, at the same time, soothing and irritating injections may be > ioade (Pigne after Sanson.) The copious suppuration gradually diminishes, the etiavities shrink, and, by degrees, are converted into a single canal (c). Serious m symptoms may, however, occur after this mode of proceeding, and the cure is in b general only completed in from five to six months, i Chelius has not correctly stated Maunoir’s practice. It is perfectly true that fc;t first he used injections, having previously emptied the cyst with a trocar and jfflanula; but he found their consequences so serious that he speedily gave them up, and v imploycd setons with success in the five cases which he relates. The use of setons <4 tas also been followed successfully by O’Beirne and Bransby Cooper, without any additional irritant.—J. F. S.] 1 2185. The favourable results to which experience points from the above- :>; Mentioned various modes of operation, in the most severe cases of struma, f b’hich have resisted all the internal and external remedies, and endangered i ife, must decidedly reject the extirpation of the bronchocele as very rs 'dangerous, and almost entirely to be forbidden. Single cases in which !r h*3 operation has been successfully performed do not oppose this opinion, ss on the other hand just as many have been adduced in which the patient '• nas died either under the hands of the operator, or a short time after the ope- ration, in which, on account of the bleeding, the completion of the operation vas prevented, or the patient was only saved with the greatest difficulty. m™,-.:’ ae Tnmore _cystico v.'au Journal de Medecine, vol. x. p. 25. 1821. 7, . •■'•oit.n, wisaci u. uc i uinure tysuco I nffulan. Helmstad, 1744.—Steroman, Dissert. f‘ ,™m*; Jenac, 171)->.—Klein, Beobachtungen ' die Heilung des Kropfes (lurch Verciterung ermittelst eines dutch gezogenen Haarseiles; 3lEB0,jr> s Sammlung chirurgischen Boo- le Lou.. \,n",en’,vo'- ’• P- * I.—Quadbi, Memoir on a • * Mode of treating Bronchocele ; in Med -Chit. . ■ *■ P- It!.—Copeland Hutchison, tS l iih Ihooehocele, or Goitre, treated by seton, M.thOhservat.ons; in Med.-Chlr. Trans., vol. xl. U|'(C\’-D °HEI'IVS, above cited, p. 2,18. ft; PoDEnE, above cited.—Lemaire, in Non Bf.ck, above cited.—Koonetta, in Revue Mcdi- cale. 1834, vol. i. p. 379.—IIeidenretoh, in von Graefk und von Wai.ther’s Journal, vol. xxiii. p. 080. 1835; and in Allgemeine Zeitung fiir Chirurgie, innere lleilkunde und ihre Hulfswissen- schaften, 1843, No. 4, 5, has communicated the largest experience on this mode of operative treatment of bronchocele, together with careful anatomical observations. (b) O’Bkikne ; in Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. vi. p. 1. 1834.—Bransbv Cooper; in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 105. 1836*