OF EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 977 bone is now taken hold of with the forceps, drawn out and rolled down- wards, and its inner connexion with the radius divided. The end of the ulna is then seized with a sharp double hook, drawn forwards, and its con- nexion with the radius at the joint divided. In excision of the radius, the arm is placed on its ulnar side, a cut two inches long is made upon the inside of the lower part of the radius from above downwards to its styloid process, and from the lower angle of this wound a transverse cut, an inch and a half long, upon the dorsal side of the wrist. After the flap of skin has been dissected up, the sheath of the tendons is cut into, the tendons separated on both sides from the radius, and held by a blunt hook. The ligaments are made tense by bending the hand in the opposite direction, cut through from above and on the • side, the radius dislocated, and as much of it sawn off with the phalaneea saw as had been sawn off the idna. After cleansing the wound the fore-arm and hand are laid upon a pillow, - the ends of the bones brought together, the longitudinal and transverse cuts ‘ amted 'Vltb «utures and the angles of both wounds left open. The joint j 1S surrounded with oiled cloth and compresses dipped in cold water applied • when suppuration has set in Scultetus’s bandage is to be put on. J™™ make,s a longitudinal cut on the ulnar side of the wrist, draws the edges of he rir„'r,l4l",te ,the abducts the hand, isolates the eld of , ®and P' otrudes it as far as possible outwards, separates it from the radius passes Themethod1iaaiHerreenn 6v’ SaT th™ughthe bone above the diseased part, nectin Jthehi r °T ^ Veleeau does not answer the purpose ; it consists in con- aud the flnn tufe !rna C,UtiS v0n ,the.side by a transverse cut on the back of the hand, the bones and in'f dlssect‘:d ba<jk > ln tke soft parts being separated from the front of ne bones, and in a plate of wood or lead being pushed through, upon which the radius [Butt To) th-e conJle*icyns of tbe joint divided one after the other, sawine- it thf Portsmouth, Virginia, U. &., removed a large portion of necrosed ulna wristg In thre^rnomh^th0111' mCheS tbe olechranon= and exarticulating it at the flevinn I . months the man was able to return to his trade as a carpenter, with „ ’ xtension, and rotation of the joint as uninterrupted as ever.] ’ |. . . IV.—OF- EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. Coxa’ Lat-i Amrottung im Hiiftgelenke, Germ.; Resection Coxa-femorale, Fr.) hither^ EZvSl0T\ P U>f }\ead °f the thi9h-b°ne, which in the seven cases hitherto published lias had but one successful result, has been variously l^ven in reference to the direction and nature of the cut. y xJ:lrst:, By a simPle7 longitudinal cut which, beginning an inch or two boce t ,e great trochanter descend, three inched belo» it on the outer ’•ansl al I l? • • Aftf I''0 tlivisi0“ °f tendons, the opening the , f aiH| division of the round ligament, the head of the ,f, i,.l. 7.. |Ld^ted ^ turning the knee inwards, and the? sawnoff leScat cut?nS,?fficTIN; a”d others). Roux hold/a SZle 1 nd suitable oof 7 bare ProPer]y the head of the thigh-bone iIppeniieim f&WoMlS868 °f- deitr0yed hSaments ail(i gun-shot wounds. 4i the most simnle is 1 Jl * -lm*P 6 CUt ,7 tlie best method, inasmuch as it 1 Semnd » 1/ ’ / least. mjurious and heals most readily. f f formation of a flap, either as „. A U shaped flap on (he ' th? R v°; 1 niladelphm Journal, vol. i. p. 117 tsofi ... „ . ,u> VOL. ii •P‘i7. lBJo. (6) Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. i. part h. 3 R