40 OPERATION FOR STANGULATED RUPTURE. my cases ■which were successful happened after the fatal case just mentioned. I certainly should not be disposed to adopt or recommend the practice proposed by Chelios, of separating the adhesions at the neck of the sac, and passing a piece of linen round the omentum, with the purpose of dividing it at a future time, as I should expect that the presence of such extraneous substance would be likely to excite dangerous inflammation. (2) As to the adhesions between the omentum and gut, if they cannot be easily separated with the finger, they are best left alone, without attempting further separation of their return, to take their chance together, either to remain in the sac, or return of their own accord into the belly. (3) There is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, a preparation of a portion of strangulated small intestine, which not being returnable on account of the great quantity of air it contained, was cut into, to the extent of an inch, and left in the sac, and the patient died. I cannot imagine there is any necessity for puncturing the intestine to compel its return into the belly, provided the stricture l>e freely divided; for I know by experience, that if strangulation be relieved, it is of little consequence how much intestine be down. In reference to this point, I recollect the largest scrotal rupture on which I have operated, and in which, before the division of the stricture, there was at least half a yard of bowel down, filled with air; and, after the stricture had been cut through, at least as much more thrust through, so that I almost despaired of getting any back ; yet after a time^I returned the whole. To my vexation, however, next morning I found my patient had got out of bed to relieve himself on the chamber-pot, and as might be expected, the bowel had descended, and in such quantity, that the scrotum was at least as big as a quart pot, and the vermicular motion of the intestine was distinctly seen through the stretched skin. Nothing further was done than to keep the tumour raised above the level of the abdominal ring, by placing a pillow beneath it, and by degrees it returned, and the patient never had an untoward symptom. If, however, the bowel be filled with solid matter, as hard stool, or apple or potato skin, and its return thus prevented, as well as the passage through it stopped up, au instance of which latter kind is in the College Museum, then the loaded gut ought to be cut into freely without hesitation, as the only means of perhaps saving the patient s life. But such cases I suspect are exceedingly rare.—J. F. S.] 1178. If the omentum be converted into a tangled lump, it must not be returned into the belly, because it requires a too large dilatation of the abdominal ring, and this degenerated mass may produce inflammation and even suppuration in the cavity of the belly. The general advice in these cases, is to tie the omentum above the degenerated part, to cut it oft below the ligature, to return the tied part into the belly, and to fasten the threads externally. The ligature of the omentum, however, causes a new strangu- lation (1). _ j Experiments on animals, and numerous practices upon man, show that the omentum, cut off and without tying, may be returned into the belly without injury (2). But if the vessels of the cut edge of the omentum bleed they must be tied singly and the threads allowed to hang out ex- ternally, or torsion must be performed on them (3). The recommendation ll of allowing such diseased pieces of omentum to lie out, (Pouteau, De- sault,Yolfi, Zang, and others,) proves the objection, that by fastening: the omentum in this position, severe disturbance of the stomach and so onj may be produced. If the omentum be sloughy, the sloughy part must bed removed with scissors, and treated in the way prescribed. In these cases, j generally the omentum becomes adherent to the neck of the sac, which it then closes like a plug. |Yl') I have tied the omentum, and cut off the part below the ligature several times,- without any of the untoward results commonly, and as by Chelius, assigned to t l fg^The largest portion of omentum I have known removed was seven ounces and | a hal f, in a case of scrotal rupture, in a man forty-two years of age, under ( allawav care 11, 111 a Loot vjk ovioiui . V.. V , ... — j *11 •« I ■ he recovered, and the preparation is in the Museum ot Guy s Hospital.