AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH SINGLE FLAP. 919 ; some times negligent after-dressing will lead to this tiresome result. I therefore think it is better to saw off obliquely merely the projecting point of the bone, which prevents any pressure on the skin, except from great carelessness of the medical attendant in the j dressing.—J. F. S.] 2721. Amputation through the leg with a single flap, is performed in the following way. The precautions against bleeding and the position of the assistants is the same as with the circular cut. The operator standino- on the inside of the leg, places at the part where the bone is to be sawn through, the left thumb on the inner edge of the shin-bone, and the fore and middle finger upon the splint-bone, at the same time pressing the soft ; parts back to the calf. Pie now takes in his right hand a narrow double- edged knife, places its point at the part marked by the thumb, on the inner edge of the shin-bone and thrusts it deeply through the skin and . muscles, a little obliquely from within outwards and backwards till it rest upon the splint-bone. He then carries the point of the knife close behind this bone, and whilst sinking the handle a little, thrusts it through the outside of the leg, directly opposite the point of its entrance.0 The i knife is now carried far down along the hinder surface of both bones, and . then its edge being turned obliquely downwards divides the muscles and * the skin- The length of the flap must correspond to the bulk of the le°-, it i- should always be one-third of its circumference. The skin is now to *be divided on the front of the leg, half an inch below both corners of the wound by a transverse cut, and separated at the base of the flap, where it is turned upwards, and held back by an assistant, who at the same time 5 properly retracts the flaps. For the purpose of dividing whatever still i remains attached to the bones, the catlin is carried round at the base of ' the flap, exactly as in the circular cut. The doubly cleft cloth is now ; put on, and the sawing of the bones performed as after the circular cut. ' a ■ t1h?Jvessels have been properly secured and the wound cleansed, the ; Hap is laid up over the surface of the wound, and brought close to the . edge of the skin ; in which position it is kept by straps of sticking plaster i passing from behind to before, and from side to side. Some turns of a r roller are made about the stump, the flap covered with lint, a cross band- age applied over the stump, and its ends fastened with a continuation ot the circular bandage, some turns of which are carried from behind for- f wards over the stump. who. ,htve thiek calves the knife is not to be thrust close behind the bones * or the flap would be too thick and could not be placed properly upwards Graefe (a’\ S “'d * p,!CU,mr kni& f°r this of holMng ou.bhe inner [ [I have already mentioned (par. 2709 note) the reasons on which I obieet to \ TfT] “ the leg’ aDd Why 1 think the “rcular opmttan Lf X ir t]Z0U°hfie leZWlth two flaps "-as first proposed by I'-^ch outer wm’I t Lr ? that.tW° WOunded Slirfaces applied to I Wed bvRot M ? U Um0D 5 U ha* been “veral times per- * tised ft in Germany * (<0 Pr°P°Sed and Weinhold first P«* ■ cuhl2t tmpUtati°n th;°agh the leg with tvvo flaPs is ”ot without diffi- ' two sides of tSheUeue ° / reqUal disP°sition of the soft Pa^s on the the ttvlf 1 ^f’ and °f the une9ual size and not parallel position of f ) ones- -^° peculiar advantage is obtained from this operation |« VS "" * *££78*- P‘- S Vw l Londroa, * „ ’ (</) Above cited, p. 50. r