STRICTURE 354 the last drops of urine, and in going to stool, occurs. These changes last reach the mucous membrane of the bladder, the walls of which th< often become considerably thickened ; they extend even along the urete to t.he pelves of the kidneys, which, in like manner, are expanded (3 The great disturbance of the general health which accompanies long-coi tinued stricture now appears ; the more or less disturbed digestion, wastin; feverish symptoms at uncertain periods, often accompanied with viole: headache and great heat, sometimes with shivering and without particul; heat, at other times with cold shivers, great heat, and copious sweating (4 [(1) The following observations of Brodie, in reference to the combination of strictin with enlargement of the prostate, are most truthful and well put, and, if borne in mir will save the patient pain, and the Surgeon credit. “ Although the combination stricture with enlarged prostate is common enough; yet it is not,” says he, “ so eomnu as it is by some Surgeons supposed to be. An old man, who has a frequent desire to vo his urine and voids it slowly and with difficulty, applies to a Surgeon, whose hand light and accustomed to the use of the catheter. The instrument is then introduce readily, or, at any rate, meets with no obstruction until it reaches the neck of tl bladder, and the case is set down as one of enlarged prostate, which it really is. Anoth' old man, under precisely similar circumstances, applies to a Surgeon, who uses tl catheter rudely and incautiously. The urethra resents this rough usage; spasm induced and the point of the catheter cannot be passed further than the membranoi part of the urethra. The case is then supposed to be one of stricture, and is treated such ; I need not tell you to how little purpose.” (p. 23.) (2) Brodie mentions a remarkable instance of enlargement of the urethra lollowm “stricture at the distance of three inches behind the external meatus. The posterior pa of the urethra was so much dilated, that, whenever he made water, a tumour, as larp as a small orange, and offering a distinct fluctuation, presented itself in the pennteun it might be compared to a second bladder. Once, when he sent to me labouring und< a complete retention of urine, I punctured the tumour in the perinceum with a lance Immediately the urine gushed out in a full stream.” (p. 8.) . . (3) “In some instances,” Brodie observes, “the mucous membrane is protrude through some of the interstices of the muscular fibres, forming numerous small cyst; communicating with the cavity of the bladder. These cysts appear to be formed m tt following manner; when the patient strains in making water, the mucous membran- while it is pressed on by the muscular fibres externally, has to sustain an equivato degree of pressure on its inner surface from the reaction of the urine. Wherever tbeit happens to exist a small interstice between the muscular fibres, the latter force alom operates, and the bulging outwards of the mucous membrane is the necessary consequent These cysts, however, are not peculiar to cases of stricture of the urethra, and they oecr equally where the obstruction to the flow of uriue arises from an enlargement of tn prostate gland, or from any other cause.” (p. 25.) He mentions “ a case of long-ne{ lected stricture of the urethra, in which, on examining the body after death, I touna on of the cysts interposed between the bladder and rectum; at least, equal m capacity to bladder itself. * * * For the most part the contents of the cysts are similar to those ot tn bladder itself; but I shall have occasion to mention a case in which a large cyst ot J description contained pure pus, while in the bladder there was nothing but urine. (PI 25 6.) He also observes that he has “ met with several cases of stricture of the nretnn in which the mucous membrane of the bladder was found, after death, n0k.0?J^ t flamed, but encrusted, even over a large portion of its surface, with coagulated lynp Such an effusion of lymph is the result of acute inflammation, differing in its chara from the chronic inflammation which produces merely a secretion of the vesical m« ■ and it is observed chiefly (if not exclusively) when the patient has died alter na been harassed by repeated attacks of retention of urine.” (p. 24.) . (4) “ Rigors also occur,” says Brodie, “ in many cases of stricture, maepe of abscess. We meet with them most frequently in patients from hot , K usually recur at irregular periods, being in many instances brought on by the tion of a bougie, or the application of caustic to a stricture. The parouse o resembles that of an intermittent fever, and it is more severe when it follows . ^ a bougie than when it occurs independently of it. In general, the cold lit ; 8 ^ .1 K.. fit nnrl thnt hv n nrofuse nersniratioil. tile patient IS fell • jia d‘l >‘)fc !.% iv •tr aii «c mo 01 ■ J* d t It I ■i. StJ ,<;a do airt fid h' a uuu -.v x >1 11. 1U — - Y £ followed by"a iiot fit, and that by a profuse perspiration, the I^ient ”Towards • J ' •’ :-’:-“wbed fora great length of time afterwan^ other times, however, the constitution is disturbedloragre^ and sometimes the rigor is followed by an attack of continued fever, which lasts ll