191 CURVATURES OF THE UPPER LIMBS. (inces, followed the removal of the poultice, but stopped by pressure for ten minutes, ,d afterwards a compress of lint was bound on the wound. A slight oozing, however, .ntinued, and on the following evening, bleeding recurred, and a similar quantity of ood was lost; it was temporarily restrained by pressure and the wound having been eared of blood, an aneurysm-needle was passed beneath the anterior tibial artery, hieh was then tied with a single ligature. Unfortunately after this time my notes fail, and I cannot get any satisfactory informa- >n, except that the woman did not undergo any second operation, and that she left e house four months after still upon crutches, but under what circumstances I cannot -certain.—J. F. S.j II.—OF CURVATURES OF THE UPPER LIMBS. [These curvatures, excepting the fingers, are much less frequent than ose of the lower limbs. A.—OF CURVATURES OF THE SHOULDER. These are of very rare occurrence, the weight of the arm constantly pre- rving its position close to the side, and antagonising any of the larger uscles by the contraction of which, alteration of its ordinary situation 'uld be effected. In the contraction of the shoulder the arm is therefore nned to the side, and the treatment consists merely in the application blisters, or other irritating remedies for the purpose of inducing absorp- m of the interstitial deposit originating in rheumatic, or other inflamma- )n °f the soft parts about the joint; and the cautious use of extending paratus, or passive motion, as the case may be. The division of the tendons, as performed by Dieffenbach for the replacement of ong unreduced dislocation at the shoulder-joint, might certainly be applied to cases contracted shoulder, but I should think little advantage could be hoped from it B—OF CURVATURES OF THE ELBOW. Curvatures at this joint, although very commonly resulting from cm- ylosis, or inflammatory deposit in the soft parts about the joints, are, in re instances, consequent on contraction of the m. biceps flexor cubiti, n m. brachialis anticus. If arising from the former muscle, any attempt extending the arm throws its tendon up, as it passes over the front of the oow-joint, in form of a cord ; by which the nature of the ailment is stinctly indicated. j^^bbmg and passive motion, and the extending apparatus be unavail- r it will be necessary to divide the tendon of the m. biceps beneath the am the same way as the Achilles’ tendon is divided, and afterwards XVL u Slmp 6 SpHnt °n the front of the whole lengthe of te arm, • with a bandage to straighten it gradually, as the patient can bear it o make use of the extending apparatus.—.t. f. s.] si i C ~0F CURVATURES OF THE HAND. ,stlvdenenfViatUreS °f the *!and are more rare than those of the foot, and rmanent birr" un"at'\ral ac.tivi.lY of the muscles. There is either j pination nr ° tie wrist-joint, with simultaneous pronation or nt. ’ Permanent straightening, or the fingers are permanently