CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE; 578 accidents having pretty well shown how much water might be injected, and how larg the wound might safely be made.”—(pp. 327, 28.)] 2073. The Lateral Operation for the Stone (Sectio lateralis, Cystotraeh lotomia, Lat. ; der Seitensteinschnitt, Germ. ; la Taille later ale, Fr.) i at present the most usual method of operating, independent of the variou modes of proceeding by which its several acts are performed. It i generally characterised by a cut made in the pcrinceum, extending fron the side of the raphe towards the ischial tuberosity between the rn. credo penis and accelerator urince, by which the membranous part of th urethra is opened, and the neck of the bladder, the prostate gland, am. part even of the body of the bladder, are cut into. 2074. History names Franco as the inventor of this method, althoug) it was first brought into use by Frere Jacques Beaulieu, at the ent of the seventeenth century. Mery improved it. In Holland Rau, \vh< had learned this operation from Beaulieu himself, practised it with th greatest success ; but he never made anything known of his practice, am therefore opinions were divided about it (1). Heister seems to hav. first rightly determined it; and Cheselden, after fruitless attempts t( make out Rau’s method, which he wrongly thought consisted in opening the body of the bladder, was led to his own particular method. Le Dran Le Cat, Frere Come, Hawkins, Guerin, Payola, and others, hav especially modified the necessary instruments, and more recently Langenbeck, Klein and Dubois have contributed to the simplification of the operation. fen R.au’s experience must indeed have been very large, for Albinus (a), qnotmi from an oration (6) of Rau’s, says that he “ performed his forte-seven men, and that he continued to perform it frequently up to his death. Albino states —“ There was undoubted proof that Rau at first treated stone-patients in by openingthe urethra in the perinceum, with the great apparatus, which he had c rumb ilS nt Paris It is also sure that he not only saw Frere Jacques operate, but tha. heseveral Smes examinedthe bodies of persons who had died after these operations But afterwards he always practised a new method of his own, by which he cut S“l„PS?peS?w“i,ropo»a, neither to cut into the pe.kof tta bladder,^., first done noTinto the urethra, as at that time most were accustomed to do, 1but into* remained entire, and these necessarily narrow passages, a.nd vei^ delicate pa inS neither by the introduction of instruments, nor withdrawing them withgr« violence nor by extracting even the stone, oftentimes large, rough, and pointed, , Ind cruelly, and as much which usually happened, and seemed far to exceed the ordinary methods.” A™ ^eS^ndh^rioto difficulties attendant on the operation and which, he saj s, be ha d .. 0 th, happened to Frere Jacques, who neither understood the lt therefor, uarts, nor had any certainty by which he could guide the knife and torceps ffinJ needs only when we would praise his method, that we should not hesitate of th, it was rather practised by him with great loss of mankind, and to the destru SSlKSlL it wouki have been better he should given Rau the opportunity of discovering the best mode. For he,w1 en cle O con with the structure and situation of those parts which were o found bv whirl sidered nothing was wanting to this method, than that a plan slio t bladder; thi instruments mfght be immediately and certainly^directedAc.that ^ * ied tha he discovered, and most successfully practised. It cannot maee Frere Jacques preceded Rau ; but to Rau now and for ever is due the greatly ^ (a) Index Supellectllis Anatomicro quam Acad. (b) ^delivered in IT 13, on the day ° ,OBrNoEauiASefuJet cmationem auam Cab Surgery"in the University of 1-cyden ? rj.ibuk rnstiumentorum quo (fguraa ad- aware of any other.-!. * * Albino culosis i didit. Ludg. Bat., M DOO.xxv