[ 842 ] OF FORMING THE NOSE FROM THE SKIN OF THE ARM. 2549. The formation of the nose by a piece of detached skin, for which the skin on the inside of the arm immediately over the m. biceps is best suited, is for both patient and operator a very much more troublesome operation than the Indian rhinoplasty; it is more uncertain in its result, and better fitted for the reparation of a part than of the whole nose. The transplantation is performed either immediately after detaching the flap (Graefe’s German method,) or after previous preparation of the part (Tagliacozzi’s Italian method.) 2550. In the German Mode of Rhinoplasty, which can only be under- taken in persons who are very healthy, and whose skin is quite sound, the necessary bandages are to be applied nightly for some time, eight days, previous to the operation, so that the person may get accustomed to them; and every day, the part of the skin of the arm to be used in the reparation is to be rubbed with spirit, when the waistcoat must be drawn together, but the hood thrown back. The measurements for the flap of skin, and the markings on the nose-stump are to be made as described in the Indian method, excepting that the part of the flap corresponding to the septum, which runs downwards, should be about two-fifths narrower than the wings of the nose, and should be marked of such length, that the whole flap should be one-fourth longer than the paper model. The edges of the nose- stump are to be so refreshed that the side cuts meet above; the notch for the septum is not yet to be made. The threads for the stitches are to be introduced at the determined points. A piece of the skin of the arm ts now to be separated, with as much cellular tissue as possible, on both sides and at the upper end, and the arm having been raised close to the face, the parts are brought together by drawing the threads through the points marked on the skin of the arm. Lint is to be put into the nostrils, a upon the under surface of the flap of skin and on the wound in the arni a pledget, spread with rose ointment, which must be fastened with stripso sticking plaster. The arm is now to be kept in the proper nearness to the face by the connecting bandages. The general and local treatment m be conducted according to the rules laid down for the Indian method, more especially must the patient keep his head and arm perfect } si* As often as the lint is sopped with the pus and fluids it must be renio'» and the nostrils cleansed by injecting lukewarm water. If union place, the stitches may be removed, though not earlier than seven y hours. When the union has acquired sufficient firmness, the division the skin from the arm must be made; and this is done, after reinov1 the bandages, and whilst an assistant supports the arm, by making a r verse cut between the lower angles of the longitudinal cuts wit i a ra lon«-, convex bistoury; after which the skin flap is kept in its place by the introduction of pledgets spread with zinc ointment anm-t of plaster, and must be covered with a layer of aromatic cotton to I it. After about fourteen days the formation of the nostrils and *0 ^ must be undertaken, for which purpose, with the aid of the n , position and form of the nostrils and septum is to be marked w it * and cut out with a narrow scalpel and Cooper.s scissors, ai ' five fixed into the wound made for it with two stitches. In fronl and tl,e days, when the septum has healed, the stitches must be taken o ,