WITH UPPER AND UNDER FLAPS. 955 Oberteuffer, J. G., Anatomisch-chirurgische Abhandlung von der Losung des Oberarmes aus dem Schultergelenke. Wiirzburg, 1823. 8vo. ° p ^aRET> Mem0ire de Cbirurgie Militaire, vol. ii. p. 166; vol. iii. p. 354; vol. iv. Guthrie, above cited, p. 420. Klein, above cited, p. 1. Maingault, above cited. Ammon, Parallele der franzosischen und deutschen Chirurgie, p. 235. 2801. Amputation of the upper-arm at the shoulder-joint is the easiest of the extirpations from the great joints. It was first performed by the elder Mokand Of the several modes recommended for performing the opera- tion, the following may be considered the most important: First, the formation of an upper and under flap; Second, the formation of two side flaps ; Third, the circular; and, Fourth, the oval cut. 2802. The patient either sits on a stool, or lies on a tabie covered with a mattress, with the side to be operated on turned to the light, and is to be properly held by assistants.. The subclavian artery is to be compressed by an assistant standing behind the patient, either with his fingers or with a compressor (Ehrlich’s) against the first rib. /nhr:rPOn the Sllbclavian ai'tery by an assistant is better than the application oi Dahl or Mohrenheim s compressor. When the collnr hnnp . 01? IEpit S«e"fhe SSXMES5^ ££ T ,2r03' Tl‘e >»'»""<»" °f m uPPer and under flap, as recommended by W.rnfJ. ’ “d °‘hers, been veiy carefully laid down by cl !'U ^ f ''I’ltt-r-ami to be removed, is brought to the side of the chest and there held by an assistant. A small amputating knife is to be thrust m, at the outermost tip of the coracoid process, up to the bone its dge sunk along the inner edge of the deltoid muscle and carried do ™ to its '"senon cutting through all the flesh to the bone. A second cm parallel to this is carried from the outer upper angle of flip Mode k * down also to the insertion of the deltoid JEe .The?w„^lowefa'ngta bone The” fl r -k n co"nectecl by a transverse cut down to “the one. The flap described by these three cuts is now separated from t ! bone up to the beginning of the two side cuts, turned blck and held \ an assistant, who at the same time com pres es the divided > humeral artery, if it be not at once tied Til dlvTd circumflex of the capsular ligament are'made tense a“(1.the outer side on the head nf tL u tense- 1 iie thumb be ng then placed 0«Vto^hwU?;^:iXV^^PeI i"0'11 1Vi.th "bole1 s being rolled outwards ■md hi l i 1 * !e,Parts covering the head, which ligament and hew. backwards, tightens the inside of the capsular 00 Nosogrnphio Chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 511. Edit, of 1815.