501 BY PUNCTURE. . successful. The rapidity with which the absorption of the water emptied into the cellular tissue of the scrotum generally takes place is very remarkable; but the punctures in the vaginal tunic soon heal, and the water quickly re-collects, under which circumstances, I have several times had occasion to perform the cure by i injection. The danger from this treatment, which Lewis dreads, seems to me quite chimerical.—J. F. S.] 1942. If a lancet be used, it must, after the scrotum has been made rense, as already directed, be introduced with its edges above and ielo\v, at the appointed place, and the opening enlarged as it is withdrawn. Whilst the water flows, the skin must be kept sufficiently ight, so that the membranes shall not fall together, and prevent its escape; but if this happen, a probe must be passed in, and the flow ■estored. If the hydrocele be accompanied with intestinal rupture, it s most advisable to make a cut an inch long at the bottom of the swelling, to lift up the vaginal tunic with the forceps, and divide it vith a bistoury held flat. 1943. If after the puncture the fluid will not pass out, on account >f its consistence, or because it is contained in various chambers, either he radical cure by incision must be at once performed or the opening dosed with sticking plaster, and the radical cure afterwards undertaken. I have always found the fluid thin, and not contained in different sacs, when the esticle has not been otherwise diseased. But I have not unfrequently found, on the ^ niter surface of the vaginal tunic, a pretty considerable quantity of consistent, gela- !1D0US fluid* collected in the cellular tissue; whilst the fluid in the tunic was of its usual character. Sometimes bodies of various size, externally cartilaginous, but >ony within, are found swimming in the fluid. They arise, as I have often noticed P,“e operation for hydrocele and in dead bodies, from the surface of the testicle •nil epididymis, overspread the vaginal tunic, are always strung together at their ilace of attachment, and at last get loose; or are enclosed in a cyst between the /aginal tunic, and the tunica albuginea, from which, when it is opened, these little ■odies escape. I ?^be. Punc^ure generally soon closes; if inflammation occur, J :oJd applications and leeches are requisite ; and if it cause effusion into I e celluiar tissue of the scrotum, a cut must be made into it. If sup- •n mration occur, it must also be quickly opened. “ »e emptying of the hydrocele most commonly effects only transient • elief, and the fluid re-collects more or less quickly. In rare cases is it | • °Wfd by a racJlcaI cure. If the swelling speedily acquire considerable after the discharge, blood has been poured out into the vaginal ■ . ™C’;?1(:h ,must be cut into; and if the spermatic artery be wounded, < - must be tied. ’ |afe&PwtUring a by,d-r°,<rc!c but raruly cnrcs the disease; “but to give the 1 otion fn v -eSt pF.0SP^ct I** Astley Cooper recommends “a strong stimulating m fllamniation^’Tmnniy applled” And ,he c°ntmues “ Exercise sometimes produces 4 -avellw SV n!!Sj 1DSiancet? a Pers,on w'° ’«l a cure after the inflammation set up by t >• 98 this hSL/ 6 ,y1r0CC e havln6 been tapped the previous morning | ) try a -UCky ^anC6’ and Sh0uld 110t ^duce another person a entbin ii fk| for, m another case, he relates directly after, an elderly | animation nX btT“JapP,ed for hydrocele, died, in consequence of the m- I In old ", e - mCr y by- a l0"g walk 0,1 tbe same evening, (p.99.) » »be performed0-' the'ntb taPPlng iS °nly °Peration for hydrocele which ought * ^y ensue Tnd bei.^ f" Very dangerous- 011 acc°™t of the inflammation which »ue, and being without power, may run on to gangrene.—J. F. S.] ther rac!1ca^ cure of hydrocele may be managed in two ways ; iy increasing the activity of the absorbents, by diminishing the