FOREIGN SUBSTANCES 390 that it was the spoon he had swallowed.” He died about twenty months after, and .k- examination it was found that “ the mucous coat of the stomach, as well as the dui Hil num, jejunum, ileum, and caecum were more vascular than natural, and there * fit evident signs of their having been ulcerated on different portions, and that nature } K. put a perfect stop to the ulcerative process, by uniting the boundaries to the submuc J. tissue. The greatest degree of mischief had been effected by the passage of the sp fit through the Ueo-ccecal valve, which was greatly dilated and the circumference thidlg ened. The mucous coat of the caecum was nearly destroyed by ulceration. The sp - sfi was found in this intestine, with the bowl downwards, where it had formed a la fifi sac, which prevented its passage into the colon." The preparation is now m f- Museum of the College of Surgeons.] 1745. Pointed bodies, when they remain hanging in the’walls of intestines, excite inflammation to such extent as to produce union of surface with the peritonaeum or any other part, so that when suppurat takes place by the continued operation of a foreign body, it may make, way in different directions, and proceed either to the surface of the tux or even into any other cavity, as, for instance, into the bladder. rin rare instances a foreign body will make its way through the walls of the intes- and belly, as in the case of the boy ten years old, from whom plum and cherry stc were discharged by an abscess communicating with the gut, and which are in the Colt collection.] P746. In order to protect the stomach and intestinal canal against • effects of any such body, mucilaginous ensheathing food, and especia antiphlogistic treatment and purgatives, to hasten the passage of i foreign body through the alimentary canal, must be employed. [This is the ordinary practice usually employed; but I am not sure that the late. Francis Chantrey’s proceeding under similar circumstances is not preferable had accidentally swallowed the gold fastening of one of his teeth, and, being;m alarmed, came to my friend Green, to consult with him about the matter, at the SH time suggesting the propriety of eating freely of suet pudding, ^th the hope of tangling the little gold plate, and favouring its passage through the bowek Gw saw no particular objection to this proposition, and accordingly a due . medicinal pudding was swallowed. Nothing more was heard or seen of thetoottph and whether passed or not is unknown, but it never gave any inconvenience. . • 1747. If there be a foreign body in the stomach, or in the aliments canal, which will not pass off by the usual ways, and if it danger to life, it must be removed by cutting into the stomach (('astr° mia) or into the intestine (Enterotomia.) To decide on tins 'ery • gerous operation is always extremely difficult; it should on y ,e u taken when most positively called for by the situation of t ie oiel? r„d on this point the symptoms are very doubtful. The tntestme m ah. the foreign body is may be far from the wall of the belly. > s ° ° . ■ very severe symptoms occur, the operation should not be ras i J on • and if they have already set in, the result of the operation is th doubtful. Gastrotomy has, however, been performed successful j v /> Delfech (6) considers that there never can be such foreign body in the stomach and intestinal canal as to ld« o tomy If there be a swelling, with fixed pain, the treatment should be ^ out wVion thpckm is distinctly Dressed up by the suppuration, t u -n* 91 iio T4 > 9 art r i )W •1} >r„ «8 swelling, witn uxi-u palu» tin. wiuse til to a superficial cut, when the skin is distinctly pressed up by the suPP'ir“'' ’tion 0f fe 1 • ■ -hat extent union is effected, aud whether extraction is no certainty to what mCrfS SESSk case in which a fork basing been swallowed, cncitcd <*f tion, and by enlarging the opening of the absc^ wM removed Qc> GraBA*’8 « For the removal of poison from the stomach, Read s, or VV tns “> macli-pumps may be employed. Wf ss. (n) llAUUNOEU’s Neuea Magazin ITir Aerzte, (b) 'cidr. Zeitung, juh 1336,I>' vol. xiii. p. 567.—Host's Magann, vol. vni. pt. i. (c) baliburfc, aica.