TREATMENT OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB 7d0 303. 1 onanism, venereal discharges, and the like, may frequently produce them but more commonly they arise without any such previous ailment; ant they have been noticed even in young girls. Most commonly they occu about the period of the cessation of the menstrual discharge, when th- altered vital condition of the womb favours unnatural productions. They are very rarely seen in old women. 2376. The treatment alone consists in the removal of the polyp bj operation. Only in rare cases has it been noticed that the constriction o the polyp by the mouth of the womb has caused its complete separatioi and cure. The result of the operation is the more favourable in pro portion to the ease with which the stem of the polyp can be got at, am the less thick and firm it be. When there has been for a long time grea loss of blood, other symptoms quickly arise after the operation whicl require particular treatment. So long as the polyp is still not large, it L covered with a membrane connecting it with the womb, and which tear: as the polyp grows. Hence the reason why the operation on large polyp: is commonly attended with slighter symptoms than the smaller; hence after the operation the recurrence of the disease is generally less to bo dreaded than after nasal polyps. _ When there are other organic changes of the womb, scirrhous harden' ing and the like, the prognosis is extremely unfavourable, as after the removal of the polyp it. more quickly terminates fatally. Polyps of theijj womb do not hinder conception, but generally abortion takes place ; preg-. nancy, however, may reach its natural termination. 2377. Of the generally proposed methods for the removal of polyps:’ tying and cutting off are the most proper for those of the womb; pulling or twisting off, and destruction by escharotics, are inapplicable, partly on account of the yielding nature of the parts in which the polyp is rooted^ and partly on account of the condition of the space (1). The operation, can only be undertaken in polyps of the womb when they have protruded through its mouth into the vagina. Before undertaking it a review mu>t be taken of the cause of the disease, and of the patient s constitution. Plence a preparatory treatment is sometimes necessary; for instance, in syphilitic disease by using mercury ; and in those persons who have “f" very much weakened by bleeding, by strengthening remedies, and tne. like. (1) Mayor (a) has vindicated twisting off. 2378. The number of instruments which have been proposed for tym?> polyps of the womb is very great; they may be arranged comprehensive y under the three following heads:— , bv First. The ligature, which is carried round the root of the P°‘Jf ' means of a double tube, or two separate tubes, or stems, connectabe gether, and tightened by means of these tubes. To these belong LE double cylinder (ft), and forceps (c), with the modifications of Keck v, h Laugieu (e), Buttet (/), Contigli (g), and Clarke (ft); aL . f„) Note stir l’Extirpation des Polypes uteri ns par torsion ; in Gazette Medicale de Paris, vol. xu. P'(6)JMem^d"e l’Acad. tie Chlrurg., above cited, ^(O’j'ournal do Mrdedne, vol. xxxii. p. 531, fly* 1—17/0. (rf) Ibid., vol. xxix. p. o-9. (e) Journal de Medecine, _vnl. xxxiii. P 1770 ; vol. xxxv. p. 173. I/‘l. ("ff) Raccoka^di Opuscuolo Medico-^ '°(A^Observations on those OiM-asc^of ^rn*1^ which arc attended by Discharge, with ten plates.