406 TREATMENT OF more as several swellings beneath the tongue are known, to which tin term ramila has been applied, which have nothing in common with it bu their seat beneath the tongue. In the entire absence of anatomical obser vations on the nature of this disease, chemical examination of the fluid cai alone be useful in more satisfactorily deciding whether it be spittle or not I have found this fluid, both in recent and long-continued ranula, pal yellow, or brownish yellow, clear, thickly fluid, like white of egg, ver fibrous, so that it could not be poured in drops, but hangs together lik viucus Its chemical examination showed no resemblance to spittle; i consisted principally of albumen. If, therefore, it be not admitted th the fluid which the submaxillary and sublingual glands secrete, ditter fror the spittle of the parotid gland in its composition ; or if, when ranul exists, there be not an accompanying qualitative change in the secretion of these glands, then manifestly ranula must be considered as the collec tion of a peculiar fluid external to the Whartonian duct, beneath th mucous membrane of the mouth, or in a proper sac (mucous bag) whic latter opinion I consider most likely, and therefore ranula must beranke with dropsy of mucous bags. According to the chemical examination of the fluid from a ranula of a hoy of twelv years old, which my respected friend and colleague L. Gmelts hf.s j consists of water 94-6, of soluble albumen with a very small quantity- of stearin- osmazome salivary matter (?), and carbonate, nitrate and acetate of potash, o 4, in 10 narts Hence the fluid has no resemblance to spittle, as it wants the sulpho-cyam e c potash and almost the entire salivary matter; on the other hand, it contains a Erg proportion of albumen, which does not exist in healthy spittle. Opposed to this ui b examination by Dr L. Posselt, of a stone weighing 0 • 623 of a gram, which I remove “m theWhartonian duct, from which it appears that in 100 parts were of matter soluble in water, which showed the reaction of sal^^' m‘1^e[.’ 93 of cafrbonai S“e 7-t r,s upon the mSgeneo-glossi, where they enter the tongue, a little distantfromisfron g T&efrcenJum lingua and behind the opemng of B^thoi^s duct Thej are som lines in length, very distinct, and of unequal size on the two sides tne n generally larger than the left. In one instance it was divided on the right . y P"wS™ SSyCne forms in W.™'. duct, inflammation and —* - arise in its gradual enlargement, by which the stone will be as I have twice seen; bu? never, even when the duct is completely closed bytheston is there any condition similar to ranula. There is inflammation an sw■ g ^ elands, which if the abscess be discharged by bursting or cutting soo - hardness in the surrounding cellular tissue remains for some time. 1763. According to the difference of opinion as the nature o rami i, the aetiology different. An altered condition of the spittle 1m h* assumed by trtich it is disposed to the drodAin tf stony >1 to S"eethicykening of the spittle, and thereby stoppage of the Wharton* duct is set up, or union of the duct by inflammation and the Ike. * / case have I been able to ascertain de^ se have I been able to ascertain any ueuueu j ‘ more fre is not unfrequently observed in newly-born children, and oecu nuentlv in early than in later years. . , ewellin 1769. The treatment of ranula consists either in opening revent th ii and discharging its fluid, with which also it must be sought to prefer complete olSufe of this ^ ent th nia complete closure ot this opening, so incu ui« c « ““A; °bv excitin have a continual escape; or in putting a stop to the secre - wit a sufficiently smart inflammation, by destruction of the swelling