CLOSURE OF TI1E WOMB. 378 womb pierced. But if the canal of the neck of the womb, or its inn j mouth, be closed, then must the pharyngotome or hysterotome, introduc* in the way described, be carefully thrust through the part to be opened and when the cavity of the womb is penetrated the opening must he e I larged sufficiently with the bistoury. 1717. The discharge of the menstrual fluid must be favoured by i 1 jections, as was done in opening the vagina, and its reunion prevented 1 a sufficiently long plug of lint, inserted into the new opening, or by t 1 introduction of an elastic tube. The after-treatment must be guide 1 according to appearance of inflammatory and spasmodic symptoms. The inflammatory symptoms after this operation are so severe that DcpuytbtI decides upon entirely giving it up, and rather to allow the patient to die more quietly a >1 slowly than to speedily hasten her death by the operation, which always results fr I inflammation of the womb, and which is the more violent in proportion to the distens; 1 of the womb. (Pigne.) Successful cases following this operation have, ^ howev j refuted Dupuytren’s assertion. Du Cumin (a) employed Dupuytben’h dou >] lithotome in a case of secondary union of the mouth of the womb, and the result t 1 permanent. The greatest care must be exerted for the complete discharge of all i j decomposed blood. 1718. When the mouth of the womb has grown together duri j pregnancy, or is so changed by hardening and scirrhous degeneration, tl it will not dilate during labour, perhaps the whole lower part of the woi | may descend so low, that there may be dread of it teaiing, then the ing or enlargement of the mouth of the womb must be resolved 1 ( Hysterotomia vaginalis, Lat.; Scheiden-Kaiserschnitt, Germ.) 1719. In scirrhous degeneration, or hardening of the mouth of the won 1 a button-ended concave bistoury must be introduced into it upon the foil finger of the left hand, a cut made into it, and continued from two anc.; haff to three inches into the substance of the womb. The direction j the cut should be to the left, or right, or forwards, or backwards, or in a i other way, for the purpose of giving the wound proper size, accordu! to the position of the womb, and, as far as possible, to cut into the pi least changed. A cut has also been made in stricture of the mouth of tr womb, during labour, throughout its whole length (&)• The labour pi ceeds naturally, or may require to be finished by manual and instrument assi^tan C6 1720. If the mouth of the womb be completely closed, or cannot be fe a blunt-ended scalpel is to be introduced on the forefinger of the lj hand, and division of the protruded mouth of the womb made careful from before backwards, or from one to the other side. When its cavity reached, the cut must be made with the button-ended bistoury in the dire tion laid down, and if the cut cannot be made of sufficient size a secoi must be made to cross the former. The further treatment is the same in the former cases. See also upon this subject— . Lauverjat, Nouvelle Methode de pratiquer l’Ope'ration Cesarienne. Pans, • Berger, F. G., Ad theoriam de foetus generatione Analecta. Pnrmissa est rano embrvulciae casus brevis historia. Leipsise, 1818. Rayner, F. B.; in Salzb. Medic-chirug. Zeitung, 1821, p. 398. Wheelwright; in Medical Recorder, 1824, p. 361, April. Cafe; in the Journal hebdomadaire. 1824, May. h (а) Gaz. Med. de Paris, vol. viil. p. 91. 1840. (б) Moscati ; in Omodei, Annali Universal,