93 MESENTERIC AND MESOCOLIC RUPTURE. fibres in the large muscle of the diaphragm. The sac contained the right extremity of the stomach and beginning of the duodenum, the arch of die colon, and part of the omentum (3). Third, Yx°m wounds or laceration of the muscle, which remain during life. This may happen from penetrating wounds with the sword, or by broken ribs being thrust through the diaphragm. Sometimes even a blovv on the belly, received in a fall, will rupture the tendon of the diaphragm. Ihe patient lived five days, and on examination the stomach and part of lie duodenum were found protruded into the left pleura (4). (A. Cooper ) J1,) lDf Tn0maS’S M,USeUm th6/e, are two specimens of Phrenic Rupture through he left side of the muscular part of the diaphragm; in the one small intestines and Tn he other part of the stomach has passed into the chest ' (2) This preparation is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. Two other cases are men- 10.ned; oue i'y Clark (a), and the other by the younger Monro (b). rch of tWS7anCea>*R>r0trUS!011 ofuhalf [he Pyloric extremity of the stomach, the whole nkr nnr fnn ZTulld/ e T ’ thr°uSh a hoIe’two inches diameter, in the left mus- ular portion of the diaphragm, near the vertebra, is mentioned by Leacock (c) in a man f forty-nine, who had severe pain of the belly, especially at the pit of the stomach • con (ant vomiting with rigors and disposition to syncope on the slightest movement ’ He led within thirty hours of the symptoms coming on g movement. He CaSC ?{ aperture through the tendon of the diaphragm, by which the stomach y MacfIuyS X COl°n’ and °menlUm paSSed int°the left'side °f the chest, is related XI.-OF MESENTERIC AND MESOCOLIC RUPTURES. (Hernia mesenterica et mesocolica, Lat.) It might at first sight appear incorrect to describe these as ruDt.ires ecause they do not leave the cavity of the hellv • w fi pt ,s’ Sf mptoms of strangulation may be questionable Of h f eVei' pi'eSent rned by A. Cooper rmthinr . i onable. Of the two cases men- 2 symptoms might have beeifis'of litde e’ a"d hlS Pre®umPtion of what pture, all the small intestines exeunt h L“nsecluence- In the mesenteric ; mesentery by a small anertnre ; . ^ duodenum, had passed between dure, the aperture was in the front \ S ayer‘ In the mesocolic e, and it contained Jthp,™ ir * layer of the mesocolon on the right j of the jejunum, and the termination oTthe^ileul ^T duodenum'a sma11 has seen an instance of 1 thQ }leum- Lawrence says (f) on belonging to the tZoTt that Portion of the meso- bbbt’s caseB(g)° L whfch the iZZ °f, COlm> and a,so refei* to * "* “ ^ “ op2gPoTthe roeBoLWmS' ? Tractions of a Sorion, Treatise on Crural Hernia. A. Cooper, above cited, p. 72. S Aboveeit'el; partii^! J7°3Urn'VO,-xix P- y ) Above cited, p. 630. p. 522. rait <lCS Ataladiea Chirurgienles, vol. i.