687 FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. ■eater extent than the opening in the outer table, its edge sharply I-, nfined, and without exhibiting any other change. When the swelling appears externally, the edge of the bone throughout its whole circum- rence is distinctly perceptible; the swelling pulsates actively and nchronously with the beat of the arteries, and so long as it has not quired considerable size, may be wholly or in part returned into the vityof the skull, and then more or less severe symptoms of compression ' the brain occur. The pericranium surrounding this swelling is either c-like or more or less united to it, which merely results from the con- med pressure and inflammatory irritation, as noticed in all tumours in lation to their coverings and envelopes. 2234. Second. The dura mater and pericranium may degenerate at the me time, so that if a fungous mass is formed between the two and the rresponding surfaces of the skull-bones, with which it is organically con- et ed, the destruction of the bone results only from its conversion into is substance, and, proceeds from its two surfaces towards the middle, so a»it the diploe is at last destroyed. So long as the fungous mass has not fempletely destroyed the bone, it forms a more or less large and elevated ■gielling, which is either imperceptibly lost in the bone, or an edge K bone can be felt here and there on its circumference. The swelling ®>more or less firm, shows no trace of communicated pulsation from the fc nn, so long as the skull still remains not completely destroyed ; and only Wien there is great vascular development in it, can the isolated pulsation f . ® sfveral vessels be distinguished by examination with the fingers, but | ich, in reference to its strength, cannot be compared with tha? in true 3p2gus of the dura mater. ■B235. Third. The fungous mass may be developed between the shidl f d the pericranium, as fungus pericranii. Here, at least according pthe observations hitherto made, the substance is always firmly con° ped with the bone; indeed, for the most part, is formed by the diseased fflinge of the bone. The substance may form considerable growths and f- a so sPread more towards the surface. When the fungous mass has > ingeri the skull through its entire thickness, it is always so closelv » hrmly connected at its edge with the bone, that those symptoms ¥ ?,. exist in true fungus of the dura mater cannot be present, and the p- ing is specially under the same circumstances, as a swelling- of like o ijd on other bones. ° e IS6' Fourlh- The degeneration begins in the net-like tissue of the and extends gradually inwards and outwards, or more towards the i hThe swf"s.is,"ere •*■"* -I Ethe seat of tf phd bone ; wl,en it has completely destroyed the bone La^er 1 ! deSeneratl0n’ * presents a similar connexion with the Ety Of Zn\ d Perlcramulm> and there is neither pulsation nor possi- most the of *■» ■»««“ 4 be based 2d In L here n,ay be finally, several of the above-mentioned >*ie time accor bfo" t S differeflt cha«^ Present at the Wes («.)’ CC0rdlnS to whlch the symptoms variously present them- 238 ti ■ties are either^inf !nn%0UH growths of the dura mater and skull- either internal or external. To the former belong syphilis, («) Ciiei ius, above cited, p. G9.