BLOOD-SWELLINGS 450 especially applies that when such are the actual causes the cure of disease cannot so easily follow. The assumption of a mere mechanical 4 fluence has therefore been attempted to be denied, in that this swelling ari ^ more frequently and immediately after difficult delivery, but of wh ' experience proves the direct contrary. Notwithstanding this objecti n the origin of these swellings from mechanical influence is, however, most probable, and is specially confirmed by their, in general, easy } s quick cure. We do not, therefore, trouble ourselves about a considera x degree of pressure, but specially about an unequal pressure, and endur 4 but for a short time, against a projecting or angular part, by which ; | vessels between the skull and pericranium are either torn or so injur 1 that they afterwards pour out the blood by transudation, in consequence; which, the origin of the swelling is first apparent a few days after bird The various opinions brought forward upon the nature of the blood-swellings of head, may be referred to the three following causes -.—first, primitive disease of bone; second, diseased condition of the vessels; and third, mechanical vide! Michaelis holds the first, that in all these swellings, the external table of the bon wanting, and the diploe bared; that the affection of the bone is primary, and the pc ing out of the blood secondary. Palletta also speaks in a similar way. 1 opinion, however, is contradicted by many cases, in which, on opening tl swellings, the bone has been found smooth, and the change which it, at a k period, somewhat suffers, is considered as the consequence of absorption, depend on the pressure of the blood. This entirely groundless opinion has, however, b recently again put forward by Langenbeck (a), so that the disease appears, in so > a vitium primes formationis as the tabula externa ossium calvaria at one part is deficient, so that the vena diploeticce are covered only by the pericranium, ga aponeurotica, and skin. As the vena diploeticce have very thin walls, so the bl< either escapes from them by rhe.ris or by transudation, and distends the pericranv into a fluctuating swelling to that point, where the external table is not deficient. 1 raised edge of bone surrounding the swelling thus points out the place where the t bones lie upon each other, at the boundary of the hollow. If the external table not wanting, it must, according to Langenbeck, be very porous, and many ves? penetrate it which serve as emissaria Santorini, and are the sources of the blood fou: in it and beneath the pericranium. A diseased condition of the blood vessels has been, in different ways, assumed as cause of these swellings. According to Naegele, perhaps the varicosity of the bk vessels penetrating the skull, which commence with the growth of the bones of' skull, and are torn previously to, or during birth, may cause the outpouring of 1 blood, the increase of which after birth may depend on respiration and the n circulation. Stein assumes an unnatural structure of the vessels; von Siebold similar condition to ncevus materials (teleangiectasy ?); Brandac and Hi t-mu* I original weakness of the vessels, as he has found these swellings only children ; Schneeman, a loose connexion of the periosteum with the bone in but U well-grown children, and the rush of blood in the ensuing respiration; and attributed the cause to the encircling of the neck with the navel-string in weakly, dren. von Ammon (i) imagines, that according to the pathological obsernn Hcere, Osiander, Bgrchard, and others, the vascular system of the bones* dura mater, as well as the pericranium, are changed by disease. He mm*“* sometimes found the veins enlarged upon, and in the bones of the head. By indeed, scarcely depends upon a deficient developement, hut is to be considered as sequent on a pathological formative process. . . ,_'ja Osiander (c) asserts, that a small artery, mostly a vatculum cimssarium ,oars- , v 1 N <1 n iL- 1 1 1 noroiuct tin' OllC Siuc by the blood collecting or from pressure, if the head be squeezed against the one the pelvis, or by the forceps if unequally applied, and that the^swelbng^ the pelvis, or ny tne lorceps u unequauy appneu, auu . c • r fonn takes place, especially on the parietal bones, where the emissaria Santorini a Wendt, Klein, Capuron, and Carus attribute it to the pressure on the nea its passage through the pelvis-, Becker (d), on the skull-bones being , (a) von Ammon’s Mormlsschrift fiir Medicin, Augenheilkunde und Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 76. (i) DieChirurgiscliePatliologlo in Abbildungen, vol. i. p. 20. (c) Ilandbuch der Entbindungskunde, vo . P’(d) Hufkland’s Journal, vol. Ivii. pb >"• 80. 1823.