584 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; Klein’s (a) method is peculiarly distinguished by his using a common bistoury,i L s he not only always cuts completely through the prostate gland, but always uIso bladder itself. von Kern (6) places the nail of the left thumb in the groove of the staff, and reta ; i it there whilst he carries the knife to the blind extremity of the staff. Guerin’s (c) method may be here mentioned, which, however, has but histori , i interest. [(1) Key’s operation (d) is performed with a straight staff, of which the point: gofe curved slightly upwards to the extent of an inch, so as to avoid its catching in a projecting fold of the bladder, and its groove deeper than in the common staff, to p s JN vent any risk of the knife slipping out. His knife, in form, resembles a cominjdj scalpel, but is longer in the blade, and slightly convex in the back near the point, At* enable it to run with more facility in the groove of the director. Operation.-—“An assistant holding the director with the handle somewhat inclin towards the operator, the external incision of the usual extent is made with the kui until the groove is opened, and the point of the knife rests fairly in the director, whiqJ can be readily ascertained by the sensation communicated; the point being kept steadi h against the groove, the operator with his left hand takes the handle of the direcU i and lowers it till he brings the handle to the elevation described in PI. iii.,* keef ing his right hand fixed; then with an easy simultaneous movement of both ham ! the groove of the director and the edge of the knife are to be turned obliquely towar I the patient’s left side; the knife having the proper bearing is now ready for the sectii of the prostate; at this time the operator should look to the exact line the direct*.} takes, in order to carry the knife safely and slowly along the groove, which may no be done without any risk of the point slipping out. The knife may then be eith< withdrawn along the director, or the parts further dilated, according to circumstance. Having delivered his knife to the assistant, the operator takes the staff in his rigi. hand, and passing the forefinger of his left along the director, through the opening 1 the prostate, withdraws the director, and exchanging it for the forceps, passes the latti upon his finger into the cavity of the bladder. In extracting the calculus, should tl aperture in the prostate prove too small, and a great degree of violence be required t make it pass through the opening, it is advisable always to dilate with the knife, rathe than expose the patient to the inevitable danger consequent on laceration.” (p. 28-30.) Liston (e) uses a curved staff, and a long straight knife slightly convex towards it point. He “ enters the knife freely into the perinceum, about an inch more or less be hind the scrotum, and makes it cut downwards and outwards through the skin am superficial fascia, in a line about midway betwixt the tuberosity of the ischium am the anus, and beyond that orifice towards the sacro-ischiatic ligament. The fore finger of the left hand is then placed in the bottom of the wound, about its middle and directed upwards and forwards; any fibres of the transverse muscle or of th< levator of the anus that offer resistance, are divided by the knife, with its edge tumec downwards; the finger then passes readily through the loose cellular tissue, but u resisted by the deep fascia, immediately anterior to which the groove of the staff car be felt thinly covered. The point of the instrument is slipped along the nail of the finger, and, guided by it, is entered into the groove at this point, with its back still directed upwards. The finger all along is placed so as to depress and protect as much as possible the coats of the rectum. The same knife, pushed forwards, is made to , divide the deep fascia, the muscular fibres within its layers, and a very small portion, not more than two lines, of the urethra anterior to the apex of the prostate, together ■ with the prostatic portion of the canal and the gland, to a very limited extent Thej external incision cannot be too free within certain bounds * * * But the internal incision must be very limited indeed; it should certainly not extend beyond six or seven lines from the urethra, outwards and downwards; for the less that is cut the greater will be the patient’s safety. * * • The object in following this method, is to avoid all interference with the reflection of the ilio-vesical fascia, from the sides of the nun. Erlang, lb04.—MtoHAius, Etwai 3beH** Hlasensteinschnitt. Marburg, 1313, Klein. Ueber Guerin's Instrument rum m ^ schnitt; in Chiron., vol. ii. part ii. pi *>. r'' (а) Chirurg. Ileobacht., p. 1. Stuttgart, 180'. —l’raktische Ansichten dcr bedeutendsten Opera- tionen, pt. ii. Stuttgart, 1816. (б) Above cited. (cj Memoire sur l’Opfration delaTaille; in Recueil des Actes de la Socicte de Lyon, p. 390, vol. ii. 1801.—Treyehan, Parall^le ties diverses Methodes proposies pour 1’extraotUm des Calculs vesicaux par l'appareil laterale &c. Paris, 1802.— Chrestiken, Dissert, de Nova Lithotomia Gue- Montaona; in von Grakfe und vote'Vm-this' Journal vol. iv. p. 307, pi. vi. f. 3-6.~S«%" Baltimore Med. and Surg. Journ. and Itev. April, p. 13. (d) Short Treatise, above cited. ^ % n • tt ■ TV .ltl( 1334. (e) Practical Surgery. Fourth Edition. * This is the only direction laid down as to the position of the staff, and I am sorry I am unable give it more precisely.—J. F. S.