STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 341 I"Rrodie recommends the division of the stricture, in the following manner “ In- duce a bistouri cache, and let the screw be so adjusted that the blade may be opened Cut the sixth of an inch, but certainly not more than a quarter of an inch. The ktouri must be introduced with the blade shut; then press on the handle, open the ! lade and drawing it out, you nick the stricture first in one part of its diameter, then n another and then in a third. This being done, a larger bougie maybe introduced 1 lan could’be done before, and the cure is very much expedited.” (p. 29.)] 1640. Extirpation can only be employed in narrowings of the rectum , ependent on tuberculous excrescences, when situated at the edge or n the lower part of the rectum, from whence they may be drawn forth, ,r protruded by straining at the anal aperture, and being held with , brceps or by a thread passed through them, may be removed from their »ase with knife or scissors without danger. Schreger, from experience, irefers extirpation in such cases, although it had been objected to by / Desault. If the excrescences be seated higher, extirpation can only be lerformed under certain conditions as to their form, that is, when they ire provided with a neck. No important symptoms follow this operation, is the absence of vessels in these excrescences and their insensibility pre- | ;ent bleeding, and sympathetic affection of the rectum, and the internal mat readily shoots over. If the excrescences be situated higher than we ;an venture without danger to extirpate them, the removal of those nearest :he anal orifice will, however, relieve the patient’s condition; the applica- tion of pressure sufficient to efface those above facilitates, and consider - ibly shortens the cure. Compare Rognetta (a) in reference to those warts of the rectum, which in their issue precisely resemble warts on the skin, and must be removed though they frequently •eturn. 1641. Cauterization with a bougie armed with lunar caustic has been Employed by Home (b) in ring-shaped stricture of the rectum, and caute- irization with dilatation by Sanson, in three cases, though without particular leffect. (Tanchou.) Sanson has recommended a caustic-holder similar to that of Ducamp ; Tanchou employs an elastic catheter, opened at the side, into which he introduces a second fitted with caustic. Cauterization must always be considered a very uncertain mode of treatment: it can only be of use when properly performed, and the dilatation is sustained (e). 1642. If, in the course of this disease, fistula: form about the rectum, ';the treatment must first be directed towards the stricture, and when that is got rid of, the fistula may be treated in the usual manner. If the disease be cancerous, alleviation only can, in most cases, be obtained by thin plugs, smeared with softening and soothing ointments, by injections of decoction of cicuta, suppositories of hyoscyamus, bella- donna, and the like. But, if the disease be seated at the lower part of the rectum, if its upper boundary can be reached with the finger, if the cellular tissue surrounding the lower part of the gut be healthy, the bowel movable and permitting its drawing down, the extirpation of the can- cerous part, according to Lisfranc’s (d) proposal, may be undertaken. 1643. The patient being placed as in the operation for the stone, two semi-circular cuts should be made about an inch in front of the anus, which, dividing the parts to the cellular tissue, should meet behind. The intestine is then to be dissected from its connexions till it is completely Medicate, vol. iv. p. 387. 1836. (c) Tanchou, above cited, p. 182. si! .ICT Observations on the Treatment of (d) Revue Mcdicale, vol. iii. 1830, p. 471. otnctnres of the Urethra, &c., vol. ii. p. 418.