CANCER OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 780 ensued, were moderated by active purging. On the second day, “ the circumscribed portion of the tongue was black and pulpy, and portions of it began to separate. This continued until the fifth day, when, on removing some of these, I discovered that the sloughing was confined to the surface, and that the more soft part of the tumour underneath was still alive, as it bled on being scratched. I endeavoured to complete t the strangulation by carrying a canula over the ligatures, hanging out of the wound of the neck up towards the root of the tongue, and tightening these afterwards by twisting and maintaining them so, but without a successful result.” * * * “On the i eleventh day the diseased was completely separated from the sound half of the tongue i by a deep trench, so as to give it a truly bifid character, and the trench was continued across the basis, seeming to extend through the whole thickness of the part. * * * Reunion by granulation had commenced between the diseased and sound portions of the tongue, but this was easily broken down by the probe. It was now evident that the former part derived some vascular supply from below, and the following method was employed to cut this off. A loop of silver wire, properly bent, was passed over it from the mouth, carried and depressed into the trench already mentioned as surround- ing it, and being drawn forwards, the diseased part was found to be placed completely above the level of the loop. The two ends of the wire were next passed through a double polypus-canula, and this being carried home under the tumour, to what may now be considered its neck, the ligatures were tightened, the death of the part effected, separation ensuing on the fifth day, (the seventeenth from the first opera- tion.”) (p. 23-28). The case succeeded completely, and at present, Oct. 1846, she is quite well.] C.—OF CANCER OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Kaltschmied, De Tumore Glaudulse Parotidis feliciter exstirpato. Jen®, 1752. Sieboi-d, C., Parotidis sc.irrhosse feliciter exstirpatas Ilistoria. Erford., 1781. , (Resp. Orth.,) Dissert, de Scirrho Parotidis. Wirceburg, 1793. Siebold, B., Historia Systematis Salivalis, p. 151. Jen®, 1797. Ohee, Erfahruugen ueber die Ausrottung der Ohrspeicheldriise; in Zeitschrifl fur Natur- und Heilkunde, vol. i. part i. Dresden, 1819. alia IU1VA 7 XT Keein Ueber die Ausrottung mehrere Geschwiilste, besondes der Schild- und Orspeich- eldriise ; in von Gbaefe und von Wai.tuer’s Journal fiir Chirurgie und AugenheU- H kunde, vol. i. p. 106. 1820. Kyp, (Praesid. Waether,) Dissert, de Indurationeet Exstirpatione Glandulae Parotidis. - Bonn®, 1822. _ . Braambebg, Dissert, de Exstirpatione Glandulae Parotidis et Submaxillaris. Groinng., 1829. 4to. 2431. The parotid gland is subject to a variety of degenerations ot its : tissue, by which its size is increased, and a larger or smaller swelling is produced. It may be the seat of induration, of a sarcomatous degenera- tion, of scirrhus and cancer, and of medullary fungus. Encysted tiuuou. in the tissue of the parotid, or in its neighbourhood, as well as swellingsi o the neighbouring glands, may be easily mistaken for a swelling o parotid itself. _ . i„.avg 2432. The swelling of the parotid is characterized by there being a j a circumscribed tumour between the mastoid process and the ascending branch of the lower jaw, which lifts the ear up, and enlarges in a.m®fetfie less irregular, oftentimes egg-shaped or pyramidal form The axis ° id swelling1 always corresponds to a straight line, continued from tne * the angle of the lower jaw or 11,tie deviatingtherein if the swelling be not very large ; and it forms a pyramid, the which lies upon the ascending plate of the jaw but its apex Paction of 2433 The following circumstances serve for the closer ... n0t the several tumours of the parotid gland. Scirrk,* form,,»“d very bulky, of stony hardness, irregular on its surface, having