THYROID RUPTURE. 87 or divided fibres of the m. levator ani. The sac of the rupture lies between the under inner edge of the great gluteal muscle and the side of the rectum. On the inner side of the hip-bone, the neck of the sac is immediately- surrounded by the obturator artery, both above and below. Upon the outer side of the hip-bone, the ischiatic nerve lies before and below, and the gluteal artery behind (A. Cooper) (a). 1244. Small dorsal ruptures may be easily reduced ; they return of themselves into their proper place. Large and more long-continued ruptures are capable of a slow reduction by a continued suitable position and external pressure. Reduction may be impossible on account of adhesion, or if the greater number of the abdominal organs be contained in the rupture, on account of the contraction of the walls of the belly. According to Astley Cooper, if ischiatic rupture render the operation necessary, and the extension of the mouth of the sac cannot be effected with a blunt hook, it must be divided forwards. Seiler considers it absolutely necessary in dividing the mouth of -the sac, to cut layerwise from without inwards, and to tie the divided arteries immediately. Hager (b) distinguishes an upper and lower ischiatic rupture; the one should descend above the m. pijriformis, the other between it and the ischiatic nerve and the upper of the m. gemini; the one has at its escape from the ischiatic hole the upper gluteal artery above and behind, and the nerve below it; the other has the lower gluteal artery, the pudic artery and vein, and the nerves below it. It is best not to open the hernial sac, and in the superior ischiatic rupture, to divide its mouth forwards and outwards, but in the inferior, forwards and upwards. Scarpa (c) considers this in women as enlarged pudic rupture, and in men as large perineal rupture, and therefore treats them as such. This opinion is perhaps right as regards some of the above-described cases, for instance, those of Papen and Bose ; but it is contradicted by other cases in which there has been sufficient anatomical exami- nation. VI.—OF THYROID RUPTURE. (Hernia Foraminis ovalis seu thyroidei, Lat.; Bruch des eirunden Loches, Germ.; Hernie du Trou ovalaire, Fr.) Garenceot, above cited, vol. i. p. 709. Heuermann, Abhhandlung der vornehmsten chirurg. Operationen. Copenhagen. 1778, vol. i. p. 578. Eschenbach, C., Observata qua:dam anat.-chirurg. medica rariora. Rostoch., p. 2G5. Gcnz, De hemiis, p. 96. Vogel, B., Abhandlung aller Arten der Briiche. Glogau, 1769. 8vo. p. 204. Camper, Demonstrationes anat. pathol., vol. ii. p. 17. Cloquet; in Journal de Medecine par Corvisart, etc., vol. xxv. Bulletin de la Facultd de Medecine, No. 8,1812, p. 194. Bchle, De hernia obturatoria. Hal., 1819. Gadermann, Ueber den Bruch durch das Huftbeinloch, nebst einem seltenen Falle neruber. Lanshut, 1833. 8vo. Cooper, Astley, above cited, part ii. p. 61. Cloquet, J., Pathologie chirurgicale. Paris, 1831. pi. v. 1245. In Rupture of the Thyroid Hole, the intestines pass through the Opening in the ligament by which the obturator nerve and vessels pass Lhe share-bone is in front of the neck of the sac, and its under, inner, and |'uter part, is surrounded by the obturator ligament. The base of the (6) Above cited, p.272. («) Above cited, pi. xxiii, (c) Supplement, above cited, p. 150.