577 THE HIGH OPERATION. rl 2072. If the advantages and disadvantages of cutting for the stone above the pubic symphysis have to be critically reviewed, this can only be done from the results which Douglas, Cheselden, Frere Come, and Souberbielle, have kept, without distinction, of the operations they performed on a certain number of patients, both men and women, with small and large stones. These results are but little distinguished from those of the lateral operation. Bleeding is not at all to be feared in this operation ; very large stones especially may be removed by :t; and palsy of the bladder is never consequent to it. In our days, aowever, this mode of operation is mostly confined to those cases in which lie lateral operation is not proper, on account of disease of the neck of lie bladder and of the prostate gland ; also in very large stones, which ire ascertained to be so previous to operation, or during the performance if the lateral operation ; and when, on account of peculiar crippling of he lower limbs, the perinceum cannot be well got at. It must, however, le remarked, in reference to the large size of the stone, that if it entirely ill the contracted bladder, if the walls of the bladder be very thick, ind the like, cutting for the stone above the pubic symphysis is very iimcult, and may be even impossible, because the arrow sound cannot be aised up between the stone and the bladder, or the thickened and con- racted bladder cannot be pushed up behind the pubic symphysis; and in uch cases, especially on account of the organic changes in the bladder, ne operationgeneral causes the death of the patient (a). t!16 i°terestinS notice left by Cheselden of the revival, as well as louriAs fn’n°Vhe h'gh °Pfatl0n m his time:—“In the year 1717-18 Dr. James le Darts thVth Ptu Presentcd t0 the Royal Society, demonstrated from the anatomy of erformp'd hv £,blgh-'°PeJr?t.10n for the st°ne might be practised ; which had been once ‘covered • l! f, ° “judiciously, and by him disrecommended, though his patient 0 one imiWn aft.c'r^al'dls strongly recommended, but not practised, by Rosset. Yet ■ruled jtdnnH°k - n,’ hlS br,other Mr- JoHN Douglas, about three years after, per- urrreon of great applause, his two first patients recovering. Soon after, a an afterwardsTpntI?aSStH0Spllal Cut tw0’ wbo both recovered; but the same gentle- naum so thS th« T °’ "’1° ““carried by the cutting or bursting of the peri- ls before reLm gU a aPPeared’ thls way immediately became as much decried as it ho hadprenTre^^n^f ’ UPw whlch.the Surgeons of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, d wav PtL d l P forrfi this operation, altered their resolution, and went on in the ay and entUnf* Sea?°n’ U belng turn (&) in St- Thomas’s, I resumed the high istof both hofnita’ls ^lth..su®c?f ’ !t ™e aSa!n m vogue. After that every lithoto- my practice thmiA^n^n t it5 bUt the PeT'tona?m being often cut or burst, twice irsLfVnm • • th g some of ,hese recovered, and sometimes the bladder itself was 1 l:JeCtlDgt00much,watcr^hich generally proved fatal in a day or two "other inconvenience attended every operation of this kind, which was that the ted wit),"6 c.ontInually ln the wound retarded the cure; but then it was never fol wm not lnrV-rCe 0f urine- What the access of the several operators was' unioned I lost no mn^tR0 publ!sh ’ but for imy own, exclusive of the two before ow of could l han 0UCIln S?;cn’ which is more than any one else, that I im a fair l w- W ie/e?? m ^ie way> (cutting on the gripe,) even at Paris e 'lid. And thoS t°bisaS°Ve tC-'Sht hunt?red P;Uicnts’ it appearsVat near two in r opinion that it ;=g 0PC‘'at,on came into universal discredit, I must declare it ■self, who would nn?LCh ,U,Upfr ,tban tbf old way> to which they all returned, except ing well assured tW i^ -Ci ?^ the b,gb way’ but f°c the hopes I had of a better ‘ might hereafter be practised with greater success; these fatal ' " *'■ I.*,RinKec‘cRr’chcnm'J' 11 certnin number of months, Alternately • Iarnw =' "= j* -v‘ed to operate on all the stonecascs^Admlupil hut ’L was K'vcn "P in 1814; after which VOL. IX 6 C“e“ *‘lmiUed time every Surgeon operated on his own case.. 2 P