714 TREATMENT OF STEATOMA. cellulo-fibrous capsules, which are filled with the substance of the stea 4 tome, is perceived. This substance itself is firm, dull white like lard but jj§ firmer, and without vessels. At the neck of the steatome, more or les • c i numerous roots are seen penetrating to a certain depth, and exhibiting the if same characters as the tumour, that is, surrounded with cellule-fibrous- « membrane, which accompanies them to their origin, where is found a layer ■ of very vascular cellular substance, of a dull white colour and fibrous I nature, filled in part with steatomatous matter and yellowish fluid, and surrounded with a thick layer of fat. The roots oftentimes do not extend so deeply, and if the swelling be situated in a yielding part, they are, by the weight of the swelling, completely drawn into its neck. The often pretty large vessels penetrate through the midst of the roots into the 1 swelling, and spread in the walls of the smaller tumours; whilst other- ; vessels spread in the fat and skin surrounding the swelling. 2289. When degeneration and softening have already begun in the stea- tome, larger branches of vessels are observed in the walls of the swelling,, and in the yellow spots of the steatomatous substance ; at the same time,-, also, there is an infiltration of turbid, milk-like, and yellow fluid, which can be emptied by pressure. In the further progress of the softening, the substance filling the cells becomes jelly-like, the walls of the cells thicken, and are bluish-white, and the vessels distributed in them are very distinct. The softening is not alike in all the several swellings, and not even in one and the same swelling. When ulceration has began, the walls are tearable and bluish-white, and the substance contained in the cells is nothing but a grayish-white, dirty, semitransparent pap. The fat around the ulcer $ beneath the skin wastes ; there is observed a not deep but distinct scirrhous I or brain-like layer; the vascular injection in the cellulo-fatty tissue wastes to the extent of five or six lines, and the fat in equally considerable quan- tity retains its natural condition, but is mingled with more serosity (a). Heyfelder (b), from his microscopical examinations, has proposed four varieties of steatome; first, the true fibrous swelling merely consisting of stretched fibres, and - > of them alone; secoml, those of which the greatest part is made up of the stretched- fibres, but present also a cartilaginous and bony structure; they approach the chondroid tumours ; third, those containing stretched fibres and fat, and are intermediate to lijxnna and fibrous swellings; and, fourth, those which are composed of stretched fibres, cells and nuclei, and must be enumerated with malignant tumours (c). 2290. Steatomatous tumours are developed often without any known cause, and often in persons whose otherwise good health and appearance lead to no supposition of so considerable ailment of their formative life a* ‘ is shown in the progress of steatoma. Mechanical influences, as blows, pres- sure and the like, often cause it; though, probably, there is always a pre- vious disposition in the body thereto present. Of the several dyscrasies, the > scrofulous seems most frequently to encourage the growth of steatoma. 2291. The treatment of steatoma consists simply and solely in i removal with the knife, and the result of the operation is the more safe according as it is earlier performed, the more complete the removal of a degeneration dependent on the seat and condition of the tumour, and *j less the constitution is affected. When already a general reaction upon ' whole body appears, when softening and ulceration have set in, , prognosis is always doubtful, because after the operation the swelling quently is produced anew upon the scar or in some other part (1). (a) Gendris, above cited. 00 Compare the above with tie mite to far (b) Above cited. 2282.