ANATOMY OP 68 as Gimbernat’s ligament, which diminishes by its own breadth the opening from the belly to the thigh, between Poupart’s ligament in front and the pelvis from the pubic spine to the lower front iliac spine, which is also still further lessened upon the outer side by the conjoined mass of the m. iliacus interims and psoas magnus, as they pass from the pelvis into the thigh, to their insertion in the little trochanter. The space then actually left is scarcely more than an inch wide to the inner side of the junction of the hip and share bones, and consequently before and above the inner half of the acetabulum or hip- socket and a little to its inner side, and through it the femoral vessels pass. But this aperture, the crural ring, has further boundaries. As from Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch, as it is often called, is expanded above, the tendinous covering of the belly, below the upper front iliac spines, and of the m. recti upwards to the pit of the stomach having in it the external abdominal ring, so from the lower edge of the ligament descends • an extensive tendinous expansion which encloses all the muscles of the thigh and is lost: about the knee-joint, and commonly called the fascia lata. This sheath seems to begin i by a sharp angle from the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, where Gimbernat’s liga- - ment ends above ; as it continues outwards it deepens, assuming a crescent or sickle-like shape, forming the falciform process, till it stretches down the whole length of the thigh. But before doing this, and at the distance of about an inch and a half from Poupart’s - ligament, corresponding also to the same distance from the oblique crease in the skin, which separates the belly from the thigh, it curves suddenly inwards and upwards,, spreading as it rises in front of the m. pectineus, above the origin of which it is fixed into 3 the pelvis as far as the pubic spine. A large opening of an irregular oval form is thus i left in the otherwise complete tendinous sheath of the muscles of the thigh, and to it is - given by Lawrence the name of lower or anterior opening of the crural canal; over the-. inner lower edge of which the great saphenous vein is seen mounting to enter the inside of the femoral vein, which with the great artery it accompanies, are here uncovered by;, tendinous sheath, but still covered in a peculiar manner. _ . It will be recollected that when speaking of the transversal fascia in the description: of the parts of inguinal rupture, that its lower part at the bottom of the belly was men- tioned as consisting of two portions, the front and outer or iliac portion continued along, the margin of Poupart’s ligament to the upper iliac spine, forming the outer half of the-, internal abdominal ring, then bending round behind the peritoneum and spreading over: the front of the m. iliacus interims and psoas magnus, as they fill the ventral cavity of the. hip-bone, and there assuming specially the name fascia iliaca. The hinder inner, m pubic portion of the transversal fascia was also mentioned as forming the back of the in- guinal canal, and the inner half of the internal abdominal ring and then stretching away, outwards in a sharp edge up to the spine of the hip-bone, behind the front portion, there terminated, and might with equal propriety be called/ascta pudica, it being remembered^ however, that neither it nor the so-called fascia iliaca are other than continuations o processes of the transversal fascia. In the angular track between Poupart s ligamenaj in front, and the m. iliacus and psoas magnus behind and on the outer side, and the _gv of Gimbernat’s ligament and the angle of the share-bone, behind and on the inner side, these the iliac and pudic portions of the transversal fascia unite in a kind of seam on eacl side, but separated iu the middle at the gap formed by the crural arch for the passagg of the femoral vessels. Thus far completes the description of the transversal fascia >i> the belly • part of which only, namely, that immediately connected with inguinal rup, tures had been described. It remains now to speak of this fascia as connected wit: The aperture behind Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch, and called by Hey th femoral ring, gives passage to the femoral vessels, which, whilst in the pelvis, lie upon th iliac portion of the transversal fascia, between it and the peritoneum, but reaching th crural ring, escape from behind the peritoneum, and then are placed between the jus mentioned iliac portion of the transversal fascia behind, and its pudic portion in fron Here the iliac and pudic fuse ice, having joined so as to form a corresponding opemn to the femoral ring, are continued down into the thigh, in the shape of a wide, but muc flattened funnel, behind the fascia lata, but uncovered by it, as die funnel descent behind its oval opening, and containing within it the femoral vessels, is called t femoral shcalli, the hinder or iliac portion of which descends only to the origin ot deco branch of the femoral artery; whilst its front, or pubic portion, extends along 0 trunks of the femoral vessels till they penetrate the tendon of the m. triceps ad,het femoris. A process passes from the front to the back of the sheath, along its who length dividing it into two distinct canals, in the outer of which is contained the femor artery and in the inner the femoral vein. Immediately above the lower edge °f oval opening of the fascia lata is an opening on the inside of the femoral sheath, throuj