TREATMENT OF POLYPS 742 may, especially if corresponding with the bottom of the sinus, be sufficiently enlarged. The reopening of the closed aperture of the sinus by injection, by the use of probes and the like, according to Jourdain (a), as well as the perforation of the wall of th sinus in the nose, after Richter’s plan (6), when the cavity protrudes much towards th nose, are objectionable. 2356. Opening the maxillary sinus through the tooth-socket is then only to be undertaken, first, when it contains fluids, pus or mucus ; second, when the tooth-socket itself is specially diseased, when there are also cariou teeth, or they are very painful when touched, when there is caries o the socket, or fistulas have formed between the molar teeth or i their sockets. The second, third, or fourth molar tooth is then to b pulled out, and whilst an assistant properly fixes the patient’s head am draws down the corner of the mouth with a blunt hook, a tiocar, without its canula, is to be passed into the tooth-socket and thrust into the .sinttftj or the alveolar process is to be penetrated with a perforator, and th opening enlarged to such degree that the collected fluid may escape freely and the state of the cavity be properly examined. TOpening the maxillary sinus through the tooth-socket, is the most preferable mode c performing this operation ; and although thrusting in a trocar is usually recommended, l is far more convenient to use the instrument formerly employed for introducing a canid into an obstructed nasal duct, as the extremity of its stem being bent at right angle, ca be more handily introduced after the tooth has been drawn. Not unfrequeutly, tn sharp end of a tent probe bent at right angle readily thrusts through the little shell o bone separating the tooth-socket from the sinus. And it is not even an uncommon c.ream stance to find that either this plate has been absorbed, or one fang of the tooth has pe trated the sinus, so that immediately the tooth is pulled out, the pus escapes.—J. 2357. The escape of the matter is furthered by soothing fluids or luket warm water, with which the patient should frequently wash his mouth, am at the same time, force it into the aperture. If there be any pieces o exfoliated bone on the alveolar process, they must be picked oft with tnc forceps. Any contrivance for plugging up the aperture is unnecessary and also hurtful, by shutting up the fluid in the cavity. If the patten every day push the tip of his little finger into the opening, that will v sufficient to prevent it closing too quickly. Whilst taking food, how' *1 the aperture should be plugged with a little bit of sponge, and afterward.! the mouth again washed out. , When there are ulceration and caries, which are discovered oy character of the discharge and by the probe, means for supporting general health must also be employed besides the local treatment, any loose pieces of bone removed with the forceps. v-m* In a blennorrhagic condition and loosening up of the mucous mem a solution of bichloride of mercury, of sulphate of zinc with tine u opium, or the like must be used. The introduction of a small P°rt,on precipitate ointment on a probe is of good effect. With this local tre must be connected general remedies corresponding to the state ot tnc When by these proceedings the secretion of the mucous me has become healthy, attempts should be made by sternutative to ^ the natural opening again pervious, after which the opening m ^ socket will close. If, however, the aperture cannot be r^r^n)brane socket will close. Ji, However, me uFei tuie u * ^ « — nienibi*ne be sought to get rid of the secretive activity of the mucous treat According to Weiniiold (c) this should always be the objec (a) Above cited, p. 50. (b) Anfangsgriinde, vol. it. p- 300. (<0 p. 23. Von den Krankheiten dcr Gesichtako®*