328 OPERATION FOR CONGENITAL rectum, and such direction given it, that it may be distinctly felt from the 1 perinceum, and the covering of the urethra divided in the course of the raphe, together with the wall of the straight gut opposite the place of the anus, or treated according to Amussat’s plan (par. 1613.) When the rectum opens into the urinary bladder, it is possible for a girl to live, on account of the shortness and extensibility of the urethra; but in a boy this malformation is fatal, if the wall of the rectum, opposite the place of the anus be not open, or an artificial anus made. In a case, in which the rectum was imperforate, and opened into the bladder Fergusson (a) made a cut into the neck and body of the bladder at the place of the anus. [Cbuvelhier (6) gives an instance in which the rectum opened under the glans penis, 4 by means of a canal which was formed in the substance of the raphe scroti. A similar case to this occurred to me, and will be described at the end of par. 1617.—J. F. S.] 1616. In all cases, where, by the above-mentioned modes of treatment, opening the imperforate end of the rectum is impossible, or when the rectum terminates by a blind end in the belly, as also in the not-to-be- > overlooked narrowing of the rectum by unreachable strictures and the like, some assistance, though not much, may be afforded by the formation of an artificial anus at the lower end of the colon, (laparo-colotomia,) which may be performed in two ways. First, A cut from an inch and i a half to two inches long is to be made obliquely from behind forwards,i so that its lower end should be a little below the upper front iliac a spine, and half an inch from it, and continued, layer after layer, through^ the skin and muscles; the peritonceum is then carefully opened, raising it with the forceps, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon sought for, drawn» to the wound, two waxed threads carried round it, and a longitudinal cut having been made in it, returned into the belly; and, by means of the threads, retained between the edges of the external wound with which > it unites (1), Second, In order not to wound the peritonceum, a cut, three > inches in length, must be made, according to Callisen’s (2) method, in the left lumbar region, between the iliac crest and the short ribs, on the front edge of the m. quadratus lumborum, at which part the descending colon lies enclosed in cellular tissue external to the peritonceum, and is here to be opened (c). Amussat makes a transverse cut two inches above the iliac crest, from the outer edge of the m. quadratus lumborum to the middle of the iliac crest, through the skin and abdominal muscles, thus cutting across the m. transversalis and its aponeurotic layer, then separates the fatty tissue which covers the gut, passes two threads through its trail, to prevent it falling together; then stabs the colon with a trocar, enlarges the aperture with the bistoury in several directions, and connects it by four stitches to the front corner of the wound (3). (1) This operation was proposed by Littre in 1720 ; but first practised success fully by Dinet in 1793 (d). See also Freer (e). (2) This mode was tried by Roux without success. (3) Amussat has performed this operation successfully in a woman of forty-eight and in a man of sixty-two years of age (/). Pilore (</) made an artificial anus on the right side, by which he opened the cttc,in (а) Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xxxvi. p. 363. 1831. (б) Anat. pathol., livr. i. pi. v. 1. fig. 6. (c) Svstcma Cbirurgitc Medicinro, vol. ii. p. 842. Hafn., 1817. (ri) Sabatier, Med. Oper., vol. ti. p. 336. (e) Prino; in London Medical and Phjs Journal, vol. xlv. p. 9. 1821. (/) Memoir? sur la possibilite d'etabliron An Artinciel dans la region lombaire sans pene dans le peritoine. Paris 1832. (g) Aetcs de la Societe de Lyon. 179/■ P-