CHARACTERS OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS 722 (o) Above cited, p. 21. 4 was obliged to be amputated ; in doing which, however, part of the cyst was left behmc which thrust forth a fungus, and the girl died. Abkrnethy remarksAn unre I strainable haemorrhagic tendency seems to be the essential character of that diseasu * which Mr. Hey has denominated Hcematodes. That it takes place from disease- structures is manifest; yet 1 have known it happen without any morbid growth havinj preceded it.” He then observes, that “ the term fungus hcematodes seems to be a nam t commonly now applied to every bleeding fungus, whilst that bmmatodal disposition which Mr. Hey has described, is very rare;” and concludes by giving a case exempli fvino- Hey’s views, which is evidently a case of medullary fungus, in which, accordm; to WALTHEE’s opinion, the cruoric part of the blood was that deposited forming/^ hcematodes (P- 125-27.) Abeknethy had either a very confused notion of these tw fo^s of the same disease, or, like many other authors, did not like to disturb or inter cilate the classification of tumours which he had made.—J. F. s.J _ ‘ The most decided difference between the two diseases is, that in sarcoma medullar after the part has broken, the place heals till another similar tumour bursts through the skin ^whilst on the contrary in fungus hcematodes, the fungus grows larger anijl largernever diminishes by being thrown off, nor is there ever any attempt at a curativ process I ^“frequently noticed this distinction in the progress of the disease, bu have not been able to determine how far it has been actual or only accidental, accordinj telh"diSi of the organ .treated; at for example, in the test.cle there ts semel; ' •»«*«*« 0ff C““ (soft Cancer,') considers it most correct to employ the name medullary a collective designation of the different forms of soft cancer which run into each otto and hence from his own observation he enumerates the following r-Fir^Carcfig medullare with formation of medullary substance composed of roundish for rtseS S, greater tpra.ti.y than the delicmte 8b= .. rn»ti M the tumour These are the corpuscles seen by Gluge (par. > ln j ... and a half as large as the blood corpuscles, and of SSSJS £ve some medullare, with tailed or spindle-shaped corpuscles times, when broken, a sort of fibrous aPPear“f> j;Xm^v^SSes, somW flisnosed Tliev are-sometimes scattered among othei formative corpmcies, formation, sometimes of a custeredarrangementbuatoth^ times their js „ various, that the swelling when broken exhibits no to s. r are mam criterion of the malignity of a tumour m tin= tailed. “r^scl^ «her^ J- . benignant, albuminous sarcomata with tailed coipuscles, and y the embryon consist of tailed corpuscles. t1 ;n the different parti According to Vogel, the essential element of medulla y f g escape of the body is a cell, doubtless developed from a formless <*• ’oun(jish tailed observation^ The ceils have very different forms W* size, sometimes very largely branching, like the pigmen i , , »ranv ^Hs contaii all these cells present'"a nucleus with or without a iwhich contai. very numerous cell-nuclei; not nnfiequently . g cd\-nuclei seem fir*1 ,l one or more little ones (mother cells with daughter cells ) l he cut « som arise from the cells. Very frequently there are nude without wvetung ? Th single, some collected in packets ; but very rarely are the cells dt'° fe or a simil» celfs of one and the same medullary fungus ordinarily present ***«“ . visible con character. Sometimes the cells, free from all foreign parts, w ithout any necting medium, are closely locked together and form the wholetumou. ^ th a fibrous basal tissue (stroma) between the cells, and when tl fillc medullary Ss runs into scirrhus/ When complicated with miosis, th^^ j, •,i. black pigment plunge among the medullary fungus cells. I ' j10Ut; if onl; with blacK pigmc v b t,.“mpdlll,arv funaus appears gray throughout- black pigment plunge among tne meuunary junyns * -hout. ifoih. SWIn^rcg^rd'toktHc socallad .Ha opinioas of BaaohhV and »» " is n0'1,i“s “lhe dis’“5i0° ‘