670 HORNS; human body, two of which are tiiose referred to by Astley Cooper ; the larger on which is about ten inches long, with a base an inch in diameter, and tapering towan the tip ; it grew on the upper part of a man’s head, and is twisted towards its extremit somewhat like a ram’s horn; it was removed, together with its root, by Dr. Roots, i j Kingston-on-Thames, after a growth of seven years, and had been preceded by one t three inches long, which had sprung up from the scar of a tumour, of what kind is m j mentioned, which had been removed, and after growing four years, fell off, or probabl * was pushed off, as the patient was lifting his hat from his head ; leaving “ the surfatJ) from which it dropped,” says Roots, “perfectly smooth, and free from any discharg whatever. In a few months a new horn began to appear,” &c. (p. 234); the horn is no J in our Museum. The other horn, which Astley Cooper speaks of, was from the pule about an inch in length, conical, and three quarters broad at its base and of an ov't ■; shape. The third case was a patient of my own, who had two of these horns growin j from the left side of the scrotum f one rather larger than the other, about the size of tt little finger, and two-thirds of its length ; one dropped off whilst he was in the hous-J leaving a sore surface; and I intended removing the other, but he took fright when ; was proposed to him, and went away. The Museum of the Pathological Society c Dublin possesses two horns of considerable size, which grew for six years on the uppe; lip of a man about sixty years of age, and were removed by Pierce (a). In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England there are two yer remarkable horns, which were purchased at the sale of Sir Ashton Lever’s collection and marked, “ supposed to be excrescences from the human head,” which is unfoi tunately all the history of them. That they are, however, human there can be n doubt, as on the larger one a few short hairs remain, which, on examination with th microscope, presented all the characters of human hair. They are conical and slight! contracted at their base, as if they had been girt somewhat by the aperture throug: which they protruded; or as if a groove had been formed round them preparatory t falling off, as in the shedding of stags’ horns. The larger is three and a half inche. long, and the smaller only one and three quarters; but the greatest diameter of both i an inch and a quarter. The smaller one has been sawn through vertically, and present a solid bony core, surrounded by a brownish horny substance, varying from one and A half to three lines in thickness, and so completely covering it, that all connexion between the core and any other bony part must have been impossible. The characters of tht core, in all respects, even with the aid of the microscope, prove its semblance to healura compact bone.] 2198. These horny growths are partial luxuriances of the epidermis, o of the mucous lining of an encysted tumour, when the horny substance i deposited in a sebaceous bag (tumor sebaceus.) In the first case, the; sometimes begin without any pain or decided cause, or after some sort o irritation, as a little elevation in the skin, with branny surface, with itch ing, burning, or shooting. After the branny surface is thrown off, then appears a small, hard, more or less convex swelling, of a white or gra; colour, which grows more or less quickly ; in exact relation with its en* largement, it becomes harder, conical, shrivelled, twisted in a spiral shapes exactly like a brute’s horn, from one to twelve inches long, and sev®J inches round, is hardest at the tip, grayish or dusky on the surface, rough* and sometimes covered with hairs. In the second case, a nail or horn-li't substance is secreted in an encysted tumour, (tumor sebaceus,) "hie bursts the skin, hardens, and protrudes in proportion as more of the sub- stance is secreted by the tumour. 'When these growths have attained great size, or are periodical, at a certain time of year they are thrown o • and for the most part recur, or leave ulcers behind them. [Of the mode in which these horns are formed from a previously obstructed Erasmus Wilson (6) has given a very good description, showing how the »»on o) accumulations may become converted into horn. lie saysFrom the torput ‘; (ht.r? the skin, or from the nature of the contents of the cells, or from both causes togeU ^ the sebaceous substance collects within the follicle, becomes impacted, and acquire* abnomal degree of density. In this situation the impacted mass exerts so great (n) Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xvi. p. 329. 1839. (W Above cited.