125 OP TIIR BLADDER. uteri; but, as it does not yield readily, it drags down with it the anterior lip of the os uteri, and lengthens it very much. Hence, “the os uteri ” says Clarke, “instead of being found in the centre of the pelvis, opens directly backwards, and lies in contact with the posterior part ’of the vagina; so that the space between the elongated anterior lip of the os uteri and the posterior part of the vagina is very smalland sometimes, indeed’ the os is patulous. There is often a discharge of mucus in these cases’ and rarely it is profuse. ' ’ Prolapse of the bladder is distinguished from prolapsed womb by the absence of the stomach symptoms, which rarely, if ever, occur when there is mere displacement of the bladder (Clarke.) There is not any aperture in the protruded part, as in prolapsed womb; but the swelling Jias a regular form, filling up more or less completely the cavity of the vagina, but admitting the finger to be passed up between itself and the hind wall of that passage to the mouth of the womb. Clarke says that, on tracina- the tumour m the vagina “ to its origin, it may be felt lying between the os pubis before, and the uterus behind ; and a practitioner can hardly fail to discover that it is formed by fluid.” The latter part of this observation is coirect; but its lelative condition with regard to the womb will denend upon the extent of the dropping down of the bladder, and the position of he womb is rather above than behind the tumour. The diminution of the size of the swelling when the bladder is emptied, is also another charac- teristic, and distinguishes the disease from the encysted or other tumours ri,ch occasionally, though rarely, form in the neighbourhood of tE If the catheter be introduced, it can be easily felt within the cavitv of *i?;gelfeSwl X^?ion of the disr>> ^ been inflicted (Castle ) y ^reparable mischief has i"Ta"? the bMt,er empty, in the SS*»ifl3; t^h\t07Vhei ^eis 4r„7on & pressure of the protruding bladder. C°Vered Sufficient tone to resist the for the cure°o/prof^se"of die bkddS^b t ^ !° be pnerally sufficient not be borne, and the downward ptessure o^Xe .w^ ?6 1?strument can" mconvement, that the woman is bcanable^nf h"g-18 80 S'reat a»d “ r :rhto thus country, creep, »h„