POLYPS OP THE WOMB AND OF THE VAGINA. 746 the tooth, and removal of the front wall of the socket, are sufficient for the cure. AfU the removal of teeth, the roots of which extend into the maxillary sinus, fistuloi: openings often remain between them, through which occasionally some saltish flui escapes into the mouth ; if left alone, these fistulas are of no consequence. 2366. The same diseased conditions which render the opening of th j maxillary sinus necessary, may also require the frontal sinuses to b u opened, as their mucous membrane is subject to the same changes as tha i of the maxillary sinus. In boring into the frontal sinus, the bone is t be laid bare at that part where it is most expanded, and the external plat | penetrated with a trephine. The after-treatment must be conducted accord- i ing to the nature of the disease, just as after opening the maxillary sinus, ut A peculiar affection of the maxillary sinus must be here mentioned, which has bee «i specially noticed by Dupustren, consisting of a development of a cellulo-fibrous swef 1 ing, enclosed in a proper cyst, besides the mucous lining of the cavity. This turnout of which the consistence varies according to its age, if examined, presents in its structural*! an approach to that of a fibrous polyp, but does not seem to have any great disposition t ^ cancerous degeneration. At first it is little inconvenient; as it grows it distends the wall. < 9C of the sinus, especially in front, and thins them so that they form merely a thin plat which is yielding, gives way to pressure, and by its elasticity rises again with a sortc:| crackling, like that produced by pressing a bladder half filled with air. This symptom which is pathognomic, fades away after repeated examination. A cut from the mint* orbitary hole to the corner of the mouth lays bare the distended wall of the bone, an, with a common bistoury a sufficiently large opening, or even a crucial cut, may b £ made into it. The swelling may be seized with a hook, or with Musecx s forceps, an., -i, easily pulled out. It is, however, very difficult to get out the cyst at the same time, an. : therefore, in most cases, it is necessary to stuff the cavity with lint, and to destroy it b inflammation and suppuration. A moderate degree of pressure will assist the return ta the bony walls to their place (Pigne.) D.—OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB AND OF THE VAGINA. Levret, above cited. ,3 Sur les Polypes de la Matrice et du Vagin; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chirurg t vol. iii. p. 518. _ i| Herbiniaux, Parallele de diffc'rens instrumens et me'thode_de s’en servir, et dept** tiquer la ligature des Polypes dans la Matrice. A la Haye, 1771. Goertz, Dissert, sistens novum ad ligaturam Polyporum Uteri instrumentuin. 1/831 Waether, De Polypis Uteri; in Ann. Academ. Berol., vol. i. p. 20. 1786. Nissen, Dissert, de Polypis Uteri, novoque ad eorum ligaturam instrumento. Gottat* 1789. . > Non l Stark, Ueber Mutterpolypen und Umkehrung der Gebitrmutter; in Stark s Archiv. fur Geburtshiilfe, u. s.w., vol. i. part iii. . I Heinze, Dissert, de Ortu et Discrimine Polyporum, pnccipue Polyporum UterM Lem, 1790. Zeitmann, Dissert, de Signis et Curatione Polyporum Uteri. Jen®, 1/9 • Bothbarth, Dissert, de Polypis Uteri. Erfurt, 1795. Segaiif, Dissertation sur les Polypes Uterins. Paris, an xii. I Lefaogheux, Sur les Tumours circonscrites et indolentcs du Tissu ccllulaire e Matrice et du Vagin. Paris, 1802. _ . , , Phvsio M Roux, Me'moire sur les Polypes Uterins; in his Melanges de Chirurgie et J logic. IIauk, Ueber Gebitrmutter Polypen ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. in. P- 263- Mayer, De Polypis Uteri. Berol., 1821. ■ Boivin ET Duges, Traite pratique des Maladies de l’Uterus ct de ses anne p. 333. Paris, 1833. > nnlvps- Hesides which many observations may be collected from writers on n - P°