38 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. by far the safest, I rarely use any other, however tight the stricture may be. If the finger can fairly reach the stricture, and the smallest part of its tip can be introduced, a very little gentle thrusting will make room for the entrance of the point of the knife. In inguinal rupture I do not recollect to have used a director more than two or three times, and but little more frequently in femoral. The director is a very unsafe instru- ment, where out of sight, for however carefully the intestine may be tended, it will occasionally turn over the director, and be cut in dividing the stricture, which I have seen happen once or twice. When it is absolutely necessary to use the director, in consequence of the impossibility of getting the tip of the finger into the stricture, I have protected the intestine by introducing a spatula between it and the director up to the very stricture. But when this difficulty occurs, it is advisable to lengthen the cut upwards through the skin and coverings of the sac, till the stricture is brought com- pletely and distinctly into view, and then to introduce the director.—J. F. S.] 1174. The bloodless dilatation, or that without cutting, which is only- applicable in those cases where serious injuries, not well to be avoided, forbid incision, may be effected either by the introduction of the finger, or with a proper dilating instrument, (Le Blanc’s dilator,) or with a small hook, (Le Cat’s S-sbaped hook, and Aknaud's hook ;) which is to be carefully introduced between the intestine and the seat of stricture, and therewith extension made, sufficient to render the reduction possible. Bruising of the intestine is scarcely to be avoided. The bloodless dilatation, first proposed by Thevenin (a), was particularly recom- mended by Le Blanc (6) ; but although Le Cat, Arnaud, Richter, even Scarpa, and others have conditionally declared for it, in recent times it has been almost entirely rejected, and only applied, by some, (Trustedt, Rust, Seiler,) to femoral rupture, especially, and in a manner to be hereafter described. [I know no circumstances in which dilatation without the knife is permissible. I should consider any forcible expansion of the stricture, by pulling or dragging with instruments, dangerous and unwarrantable, as it would be ineffectual for the required purpose without more mischief than would result from using the knife.—J. F. S.] 1175. When the obstruction to the return of the intestines on the part of the neck of the sac, or of the abdominal ring has been removed, it depends on the state of the parts contained in the rupture how their return shall be effected. This is often at once possible, without any difficulty ; often must the intestine be carefully unfolded, if filled with stool or air (1). That part of the intestine at the seat of strangulation should always be drawn a little down, to examine its condition. The reduc- tion should be effected with the fingers wetted, those parts first protruded, being carefully first returned ; thus the mesentery earlier than the intes- tine,0 and that before the omentum, according to the direction of the aperture through which they have protruded. The forefinger is then, to be passed by this opening into the belly, for the purpose of determining that all the parts are returned (2). rfl) Always before the intestine is attempted to be returned it should be emptied by < eentle pressure of its contents, whether air or stool, which renders the reduction easy, whilst if this be not attended to, considerable diflieulty is often experienced, ao nnfreouently after dividing the stricture, the tonic power of the muscular coat ot the Lowel will itself empty its contents; or if they be fluid, they will flow back into t e intestine canal, the protruded gut become flaccid and be readily returned into t e beiiv. I do not at all consent to the practice of pricking or cutting into the intestine, if it be indisposed to return, on account of its distension with air. 1 am sure that alter flividinc the stricture freely, it is not matter of much consequence whether the gut returned or not by the operator, as most commonly after a short time the air passe- along the freed gut, and the protruded part diminishes in size, and if not restrained . adhesions retracts into the belly. (fl) Trnit<* des Operations. Paris, 1696. (1) Precis d’Oporations. Paris, 1775. vol.ii.ch chap. vii.