652 KINDS OP BRONCHOCELE; TREATMENT. Prosser, Thomas, An Account and Method of Cure of the Bronchocele or Der ; Neck. London, 1771. 8vo. Wilmer, B., Cases and Observations in Surgery, with a Method of curing Bro chocele in Coventry. London, 1779. 8vo. Barton, B. Smith, M.D., A Memoir concerning the Disease called Goitre, as prevails in different parts of North America. Philadelphia, 1800. 8vo. Holbrook, James, Practical Observations on Hydrocele; also on Bronchocele, 8J London, 1825. 8vo. M'Clellan, Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of Goitre, from a work on t j Geology of Kemaon, Calcutta, 1835; and republished in Dublin Journal of Medic:) Science, vol. xi. p. 295. 1837. Inglis, James, M.D., A Treatise on English Bronchocele, with a few Remarks <! the Use of Iodine and its Compounds. London, 1838. 8vo. Copland, James, M.D., Article Bronchocele; in his Dictionary of Practical Mete cine, vol. i. p. 269. 2164. Bronchocele is a chronic, painless, more quickly or slowly arifid swelling on the fore and under part of the neck, depending on enlarge merit of the thyroid gland, and varying considerably in reference to i extent, form, and hardness. The swelling begins in one or other lobe, (r affects the whole gland, and may attain an enormous size; in most case it has a pendulous shape. At first the skin is unchanged ; as the growl- increases, the veins in the neck and on the tumour swell and becom varicose. If continuing still longer, the swelling usually feels elastic soft, and regular; but after a further time, becomes firmer, and in son-v parts quite hard and uneven. Sometimes the swelling is so firmly cor nected with the neighbouring parts, that it is little or not at all movabb If left alone, the bronchocele continues increasing ; but in rare cast- runs on to inflammation or suppuration, by which it diminishes, c entirely disappears. By the above description of bronchocele, its distinction into true and false, by whic latter term various swellings in other parts of the neck have been described, is g> rid of. 2165. So long as the bronchocele is not large, it causes little or n inconvenience; but with its increasing size, the voice gradually become:- hoarser, the swallowing and breathing difficult, and there are severe fit of coughing. These symptoms increase in correspondence with 'oM greater enlargement of the swelling, till there is danger of suffocation in consequence of the obstructed circulation in the vessels of the necM the blood collects in the vessels of the head ; the face becomes puffy an** bluish, the patient complains of headache, and apoplectic symptoms maw ensue. Owing to the disturbed breathing, and the less expansion of tin chest, the circulation through the lungs is interfered with, the obstacle which the arteries suffer to the impulse of blood given by the hear* is increased, the cavities of the heart expand, and their walls thin ; ant hence arises the frequent enlargement of the heart observed in bron chocele (a). ... fa - 2166. Various kinds of bronchocele must be distinguished according « the variety of degeneration of the thyroid gland, which accompany • enlargement, namely, the vascular, the lymphatic, and the ,tri>rAo«> bronchocele. The designation of an inflammatory swelling of \ thyroid gland, (Cynanchc thyreoidea,) as inflammatory bronchocele, * improper. (u) Lull I lh.—Winslow ; in Journal general de Mcdecine, vol. lvii. p.