598 CUTTING FOR THE STONE ; may be avoided; but that this cut is difficult for a less experienced opera 1 tor, and-a slight variation from the prescribed mode causes that vessel t be wounded. The bulb is also easily wounded, especially in old persont « in whom it is large, and juts back so much that it is not easily presses® down ; and if the knife be sunk deeper to avoid it, there is danger t 1 wounding the rectum. Both, however, may, according to Senn, be moi : certainly avoided, if the membranous part be divided, not lengthways!® but transversely. Beclard thought it a particular advantage of tin | operation, that the edges of the wound lie close together, and that the cur follows more quickly (a). Soujbekbielle (b) considers that the doubt d cut should be so large, that the extraction of the stone should entirely a separate the middle from the other parts of the prostate. 2094. One of the most important circumstances, which has the greater I influence in deciding on the several modes of performing the latera operation for the stone, is the variety of opinions as to the room whici the cut into the prostate and neck of the bladder can give, and which ca. be given with safety. Many make the cut so large that the stone can b 1 withdrawn without stretching and bruising the parts ; they divide, wher the size of the stone needs it, the whole prostate, and continue the cu i even into the body of the bladder; considering a clean cut less disadvam tageous than the tearing and bruising by simple dilatation. Others feaa large cuts, as if the whole prostate be divided into the bladder, infiltnH tion of urine, abscesses and gangrenous destruction of the cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, weakness of the neck of the bladder, slow cure, and fistula, may ensue. ! It is most advisable to cut sufficiently deep into the prostate and necl of the bladder, without continuing the cut into the body of the bladder- and to enlarge the opening in a gentle and gradual manner with the finger or the forceps. This enlargement may be carried to such extent tbai very large stones may be withdrawn, and by this mode of enlarging tbt^ wound the objections do not apply which for the most part result fron the great apparatus, as if the prostate and neck of the bladder be pro perly cut into, the enlargement is made in a very different way. •»» Dubois’ knife, with which I cut into the prostate and neck of the bladdert as I introduce it, but especially in drawing it out, I give the preferenct above all the other modes of practice. If the cut do not correspom with the size of the stone, I enlarge it with the button-ended straig . bistoury, which cuts only to the extent of an inch. , , [Scarpa, as already noticed, (p. 583,) has well pointed out the extent to whic prostate should be divided, and the capability of doing this, to a certain and demm< extent, is the great advantage of the cutting gorget, which can only divide the prosw equal to its own breadth. If the prostate be divided with the knife, the extent or ^ division must depend entirely upon the operator, and is liable to vary considered y.— J. F. S.] Upon the matter just considered the following works may be also consulted: Klein, Chirurgische Bemerkungen, p. 1. Stuttgart, 1801. . Praktische Ansichten der bedeutendsten chirurg. Operationen; part ii. .Juttgaro l 181G ;ie. Martineau , in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 402. 1820. Cooper, Samuel, Dictionary of Practical Surgery,—Art. Lithotomy, p. S89. Dupuytren, above cited, p. 17. (n't Oi.i.ivier, above cited, p. 244.—Hovkr- CoYlard ; in Repertoire generate d Anatonue et de Fhysiologie, vol. i. p. 507. (i) Journal de Medecine, vol. evii. P- 1829.