165 TREATMENT. connected to the cross by an iron rod, which may be fixed higher or lower, in order to keep the head more or less up. Second. Van Gesschek’s apparatus consists of a stirrup bound around the pelvis, on which two rods are attached with screws running upon the sides of tiie spinous processes, and rivetted above to a shoulder-piece, on the two ends of which are straps to draw the shoulders back. 1357. To the apparatus operating by extension, belong, first of all, the extending beds and stretching apparatus of Venel and Schreger (a), Lafond(£), Shaw (c), Maisonabe (d), Blomer (e), Langenbeck (f), Delpech (g), Heine, and others, in which the patient is fastened, by means of padded straps applied on the feet and head, above and below to a bed or chair, and the extension of the whole body is kept up by sufficiently strong springs. In some of these machines it is attempted simultaneously :o employ pressure, by means of solid pillows thrust beneath the back, oi- ls in the stretching apparatus of Delpech and Langenbeck, by elastic :races carried.around the body from one to the other side of the bed. The >ame object is effected only momentarily, by the so-called neck-swing escarpolette) of Clisson, in which a broad cloth is applied around the latient’s neck, and to its two sides is attached, behind the ears, a bandao-e vhich is carried through a pulley attached to the cieling, wherewith the latient draws himself up as long as he can bear it. Here also belongs Le Vacher’s machine which consists of stays, laced n front, and having a plate attached to its hind part. An iron rod passes nto a groove upon this plate, which ascends straight up the middle of the leek and thence curves over the head to the forehead. In the notch at he upper end of this rod is hung an apparatus which is fastened around he head and beneath the chin of the patient. Peltjg (h) has improved ns machine by attaching, instead of the head-apparatus, at the end of the ron rod which reaches only to the upper part of the neck, a neck-band, by diich the chin and occiput can be held up. Sheldrake altered Le achers machine ; he took away the stays and fastened the iron rod on a late which descended from the middle of the back and fitted closely to the amp-bone. Delacroix also altered this machine, making its point of I San00 the felV-S Gu.ERIN W has proposed an apparatus for the [ multaneous extension (extension sigmoide) of the vertebral column in con- I ary directions of the curvature. Qh<i appa,ratus actinS by extension and pressure, are- w ,™/rT S aPParatus (»)> consisting of two semicircles connected • -gether, winch lie upon the hip-bones and from whence rise up two sheaths I ken VervUhi‘ eLnes Streckapparates zum nucht- langen 18?nChl ^ auckgrath9gckrr™mte. 'llL’i u 1toWlth copper-plates. X,l?W0n ,Medlcal and Physical Journal, Dec. ;c) Above cited, vd) Journal Clinique des Dilformites, Dec. 1825, >. ii. VCn GR'EpE Und VON Walthrh, P«teq,"^: DG*mng.tei88|)in'C dist0rUonib«9 (9) Orthomorphie, pi. 40, 41. (A) Bernstein, Systemat. Darstellung des Cln- rurgischen Verbandes, p. 259. b ^ * pl(clxixKDY’ ab°¥e Cited‘ ChirUrg- K“Pfertafeln, up Gazette Medicale, Nov. 1835 p. 732. (/) Zoonomia, or tlie Laws of’ Organic Lire London, 4to. 2 vois. 1794-96 0 le- J;nZF?vn'Fl'S Ch'rurgische Kupfertafeln, pi. CXXX1V. clix. clxix. clxxxn. ccxl. ccxlvi. P (.a) Beschreibung einer neuen Maschine zur ™rtere und He,iung «uchei- &A,