OF JOINTS. 973 00 Jaeqeh, above cited, p. 394. rules for wounds and amputations. The traumatic reaction is, according to the concurrent testimony of most observers, not great, and requires, at first, besides keeping the patient quiet, strict diet, mucilaginous drinks, and the use of cold applications. If there be little reaction and a cold ccde- matous state of the parts, warm aromatic fomentations should be em- ployed, and a more nourishing and exciting diet. When suppuration begins the cold applications must be given up, and the wound dressed with lint and sticking plaster and bound up with Scultetus’s bandage to check any unnecessary movement of the arm. On the fifth day those stitches which are most stretched must be removed, and the others according to circumstances from the sixth to the ninth day. When the fever sub- sides, more nourishment must be allowed, and the patient, usually about the eighth day, will have returned to his ordinary diet and drink. The scarring, in general, goes on quickly, and only now and then does the wound remain open longer (a). 2831. Among the untoward circumstances which may occur during the after-treatment the following may be specially noticed, after-bleeding, ms cesses^ fistulous passages, and ulceration of the scar. If after-bleeding come on soon after the operation, the dressing must be removed and the bleeding vessels tied. If there be trickling from the ■whole wound, cold applications and styptics must be used. During sup- puration if large bleeding come on, amputation will be necessary, as tying result1"6^ artenal trunk does away with the ]east hope of a favourable Abscesses which are formed by extension of the inflammation, or by the burrowing of the discharge into the neighbourhood of the operation, re- quire poultices and to be opened with the knife. Fistulous passages depend either on the continued secretion of synovia trom a stili remaining portion of the joint-surface, or on sluggish granula- i 1S ° 116 tlnckened callous tissue, or on some carious part remain- ing or on superficial necrosis of the edges of the bone, and require the continued use of aromatic applications” mtil, in the latter c2e. smdl splinters of bone be thrown off. afffffjj? ^decapitation, according to Jaeger, rarely or never h^after I ary , A"y remainin& carious Part, if it do not iIpniT' ,reatmen'’ requires a ^ “Ci5i0"’ ”if 2832. The mode of dressing the sawn-offends of the bone requires oar fular attention in the after-treatment. In the upper exZ ! fl formation of callus should never be the object. On the contrary ^how verm the lower limbs, and specially at ti knee-joint eve ” S m * directed towards its production, and attention'paid to the motions it ^Trm that State 0f,re3t in if is to rema" K no he bones affords tft ,fibr°us llsfue which grows and connects the ends of f the lUft! SUfCle!U fir?“ess- If “0 firm union take place, an<l not fixabie by a