SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. 710 seem to be, to draw in that direction in which the skin yields most readily, so as to ke< it. the outer and inner wounds farthest apart. This will principally depend on the su i and seat of the loose substance, which will also decide whether its removal shall h effected on the inner or outer side of the knee-cap. The operation applies only to tl loose cartilaginous or bony bodies, and not to the malignant growths to which SchregeuS refers, for which amputation is the only remedy.—J. F. S.] 2279. Schreger alone has hitherto removed these bodies from tl a shoulder-joint. The mode of operation must be directed by the seat (^K the concretion. The operation would be unsafe if performed in the armw pit; attempts should therefore be made to press and fix the loose boda above and before, or above and without, the short head of the m. bicep- a flexor cubiti. The arm must be pressed to the trunk; an assistant draw the skin as much as possible inwards, and the operator then makes wit: j a convex bistoury a cut through the skin and deltoid muscle, directly upo.> the body, and in the course of the fibres of that muscle, ties the divideal circumflex humeral artery, and having stopped the bleeding, opens thtri capsular ligament, and removes the foreign body. The treatment of th, 1 wound is managed in the same way as in the operation on the knee-joint; I The removal of similar bodies from other joints, as the elbow and the like, is cor 1 ducted in the same manner. _ ■ 2280. To diminish the danger in the removal of these foreign bodiefcl from joints, by preventing the entrance of the air, the subcutaneouuj operation has been proposed, by two stages and at different periods o I time (1). The foreign body having been fixed in the above-mentionei i manner, a transverse fold of skin is made at the part, thiough tie I Kldmipv is carried under the skin, and by one or mor ; healed, the foreign body is removed by simply cutting through the PM Further experience is required to prove whether serious symptoms cm , always be prevented by this mode of operation, as the cases at pr ~ I given lead to expect. (1) Goyrand (a) lias re knee-joint in this way, wit! condition of the patient. vut cn a \ nr<n\T a mnns TUMOURS.