329 CLOSURE OF THE RECTUM. ,i previously advised by Benjamin Bell, and as was to be done in the immobility of f o S. Romanum. The formation of an artificial anus has been also proposed in adults, for the not-to-be- ■rerlooked narrowing of the rectum from unreachable strictures, and the like. Freer (a) nade a longitudinal cut, of three inches, in the left iliac region, about an inch above i, e upper front iliac spine, and an inch and a half in front of it, laid bare the colon listened it with two stitches in the wound, and opened it longitudinally to the extent of jjifo inches. The patient died on the tenth day. Pring (6) made a cut obliquely down- wards, and inwards two inches above, and an inch on the inner side of, the front iliac .j)iine, to within three-quarters of an inch of Poupart’s ligament, through the skin and * uscles; opened the peritonaeum, and enlarged it to three inches. The sigmoid flexure ;is' the colon was laid bare to the wound. The result was successful. ■p Compare also Martland, a case in which the operation for artificial anus was success- is lly performed; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jour., vol. xxiv. p. 271. 1825. S7 Svxtzer, E., Anotationes in Colotomia. Hafnse, 1827. ;T; Oettinger, Ueber die angeborene Aftersperre. Miinchen, 1826. a. Loper, Dissert, de Yitiis fabric® primitivse Intestini Recti. Wirceb., 1827. ** Klewitz ; in Med. Zeit. des Verein. fur Heilk; in Preuss., No. 17, 1835,—No 2-> B38. a Although in imperforate anus, if no assistance be rendered, fatal consequences rt isue, in consequence of the stools not being passed; there are, however, instances in t .hich, with imperforate anus. and even with accompanying deficient urethral opening, I jve has been sustained months (c), and even years (d) ; in which cases the stools have wen vomited by the mouth. 1617. When the anus, though not imperforate, is yet congenitally nar- jnved, the existing aperture must be enlarged by means of a button-ended tastoury and director, and then its reunion prevented by the introduction : f lint. This congenital narrowing of the rectum may be to such extent, aat so long as, during infancy, the stools have little hardness and thick- ?L3ss, it is of no consequence, but as the child grows, and the motions Mocome larger, inconvenience arises (e), and the treatment must be such as : ready mentioned. t [I had under my care, very many years ago, a case of imperforate anus (f) milar to that mentioned by Cruvelhier. At the time of birth there was not any ' oenrag, but a slight puckering marked the place of the amis, and this was protruded u lch time the child cried. In front of the scrotum, and in the track of the raphe as it issed on to the prepuce, was a small aperture, just large enough to admit the entrance a probe, and from it, when the child cried, a small quantity of meconium passed I ‘ the Puckered skl“. hut it was full an inch before the rectum could be reached id I then opened it sufficiently to admit a large urethral bougie, and the meconium •ad ly escaped. A probe, introduced at the opening before the scrotum, passed alone a mal, beneath the urethra, through the perinaeum, becoming larger and lareer as it oproached the rectum, in which it terminated. No bougie, or anything else, was left J i, as I thought keeping the bowels loose would have been sufficient to prevent union • CTSe °f/ f0rtnXht the ™d had cl0Sed- aad no W^ passed,’ ! aperture in front of the scrotum. I therefore had to cut into the rectum ^or four re ,b°Te was tbeu ln‘rotduced, to he worn constantly, but removed It nrnllhl V f°r emPt>'lng the howels. This went on very well for a time fro™ negligence, the scar contracted, and at the end of three months the '1 dSl W°U,ld ,n0t admit ?ven the P°int of a Prohe. The scar wasXrefor? iort d‘' d ,aild a larger bougie introduced, and worn for a fortnight, after which a i -event it slinffin^ ab°.ut1th? thickness of the little finger, with a circular shoulder’to 'ntinual V )v ?ga “d S7 " ‘ ^ waf, n;tr°duced, so that the motion might pass ipped out 7n A d *h,U 0p?ni!lg established. Two months after, the pipe having .rgffig whh hl.hrnfn?8 UCte<. ’ ‘htL0Peni,)g had again closed, and again required em (.TIKd.^, af tUle- Th' .gain lompdkd ■’ SDA?o^.in‘ Jo"eMedecine, vol. AAv^ '-13’ (/) St. Thomas's Hospital Reports?pi* j 21. London, 1836. 8vo Malad. Chirurg., vol.