650 TREATMENT OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE. 2158. The congenital lengthening of the tongue is of no great cons quence ; it is easily relieved if recent, and not incurable even when have existed longer. The above-described symptoms accompanying th complaint when severe, especially its ill effects on nutrition, partly regard to the difficulty of swallowing, and partly on account of tit continued loss of the saliva, render its early treatment necessary. 2159. The treatment varies according as the disease is congenital, . as it has occurred after birth ; and in the former case, with reference the length of time it has existed. Soon after birth it is generally sufficiei- to prevent the complaint increasing, to irritate that, part of the tongd protruded between the lips with acrid powders, as pepper and the like, i j order to induce the child to draw it back. If it be necessary to keep tl tono-ue in the mouth, a bandage must be applied to keep the lower agaiat the°upper jaw. As the enlargement of the tongue is encouraged h sucking, a wet-nurse must be chosen whose nipple is large and lone;, so that the tongue may require less lengthening as the child sucks tha with a short nipple, or the child must be fed with a pap-boat. In tl* interval, when the child is not sucking, it must be endeavoured to prevei the protrusion of the tongue by the means already directed. M f Clanny (ci) mentions the case of a boy five years old, on whom the tongue had begi. to protrude within the first year, and at the former age had projected three inches; ii was returned with difficulty, and the jaws kept together as recommended by La sns (li) The tongue was replaced in the mouth with much difficulty, and retained keeping the jaws perfectly closed with a handkerchief passed round them, and over tl crown of the head, for the period of five weeks.] 2160. If the enlargement of the tongue be so considerable that it car. not at once be brought back into the mouth, its size may often be dually diminished by repeated application of astringent irritating remethe Scarifications and leeches may, with this view, be useful as well i moderate and gradually-increasing pressure, by means of a roller or a Utt bao- of linen. This compression of the tongue, in which the bandage mu. be’frequently moistened with a stringent, and the patient kept on h back, is advantageous, if properly persevered in, oftentimes m very advanced cases. When the tongue has been so far reduced that » be brought back into the mouth, the jaws must be kept constantly close* by means of a bandage. If the surface of the tongue be dry, it must moistened by frequent washing and fomentation (c). 2161. When the enlargement of the tongue is so considerable benefit is attained by the above treatment, and when by t le continuance of the disease its fore part is changed in structure. j remains nothing but shortening its length with the knife, oi ll(Jf\62. The patient, seated on a chair, must have his head fixed by a assistant standing behind him, and his mouth kept open either with co^ inserted between his back teeth, or by means of a speculum ora. paUent then protrudes and reacts Ids tongue, so that theje.torjn, decide how mucli shall be removed, lhe tongue being protruded,^ ; how mucli snail oe removed. a mg wi.du^ e , ^ by an assistant obliquely upwards with a pairof polypus or c vhaaus forceps. The operator then grasps the front of the t0 V1 Ids fingers, or fixes it witli a l.ook, and with a strong bist^f^ lines of the tongue in a semilunar shape, at a stroke. 1 1 anil in Medical and Physical -'corns, National, vol i p.l.an vLp. Ac 1S°1. .W 11 Boyer, above cited, p. dST.