PUNCTURING THE CHEST WITH THE TROCAR. 475 I CarTwric.ht (a) proposes, in order to prevent the admission of air in opening the ca- tj itv of the chest, to introduce a double'thread, shaped like the Greek fl after having 1* aile a small cut, and to apply sticking plaster over it. I f (1) I cannot think the recommendation here given of thrusting a bistoury into a pre- I a,R1([ abscess of the lung, admissible under any circumstances. I have great doubt i hether fluctuation could be certainly ascertained, and even if it were, I do not think i )ening it would be more justifiable, as it would be impossible to be sure of the thick- g -ss of the wall of the abscess; whilst, in either case, the patient would be endangered >Ji .'the bleeding which would follow wounding the lung; on which account, therefore, think it would be highly imprudent to risk so serious a consequence. I (2) I should also be exceedingly loath to open the chest on the opposite side, as here rj commended by Chelius.—J. F. S.] i • 1898. The dressing consists in the introduction of an oiled fold of half if [travelled linen, between the edges of the wounded pleura, without drop- i iugit into the cavity of the chest, its ends being fastened with sticking laster, and over it laid a plaster full of holes, soft lint and a compress d -operlv confined with a bandage over the chest and one shoulder. The itient should be laid so as to favour the discharge of the pus as much as A! issible. If the accumnlation be large, the dressing should be applied without discharging all i it. Pelletan (b) advises, in every case, the application of the above-described ’essing, so that the cavity of the pleura is opened, and the fluid can gradually escape, .d the air should not enter so that the lungs might expand. 1899. The after-treatment requires, according to the condition of the . itient, and the symptoms which may arise, a cooling, antiphlogistic, or a Aistorative treatment. The patient must be kept quiet, and not talk ; and rr.ie surrounding air should be properly dry and warm. The dressing iould be renewed as rarely as possible, at the utmost never more fre- Ipently than every twelve or fourteen hours. Injections employed for the purpose of encouraging the discharge are indeed usually objectionable. I t- ive, however, in cases where subsequently the discharge was very bad ■ id stinking, used injections of mucilaginous decoctions, with a slight ad- o tion of muriatic acid, and slightly astringent decoctions with advantage. ■ he wound must be kept open by this dressing as long as there is any P cretion. Tubes of elastic gum and the like, for this purpose, are objec- - unable; repeated experience, however, has shown that the mere intro- j lctlon of the fold of half unravelled linen is insufficient to keep the wound ■operly open. A fistulous aperture often continues for a long while, ‘ Inch only closes when the patient’s health is fully restored. To prevent the hectic fever which, after the operation for empyema, results from the ite? o«" and lts Putr«cence by the admission of air, RecImier (c) injects warm A 2° Reaumur, (95-99^° Fahu.,) immediately after the discharge of the fluid en k‘ ,i a .c<?r.resP°nding quantity to the discharge. The aperture should e 11 Wlth sticking plaster, and the patient laid with his pelvis high, so that pand wnly-COmplete-ly ^ the Cavity of the chest Jn proportion as the lungs Pand, m Inch is ascertained by auscultation, less water should be injected. b l!?0?: ^puncturing the chest with the trocar, between the fifth and ,‘n s’ ” t'iat Part yield a dull sound on percussion, and no respiratory ’ ~ rCeir!’ the P°int of the left forefinger is to be placed upon \ rusKn ei fu °/ t ie °lVer nb’ and the trocari held in the right hand, It not tr 1 n finSer-nai1 through the intercostal space, with sufficient s entered den ?Te3TT,e> tiU the °PP°sition offered cease, and shows it |e file S'.rW* ,°hesl; The “"“h is «« laken I,old of with S le left hand, and thrust deeper into the chest, whilst («) London Medical Gazette, vol. viii. p. 105.1831. 2 cited, v. ~9j. (t.) Bullet deTherap., vol. xii. 18J.% /.V . , vy wimuii 1 Y| (.0) Above cited, p. 295.