921 AMPUTATION JUST ABOVE THE ANKLE. bones of the previous incision. The integument is then reflected upwards to a sufficient extent to cover the bones, and the operation finished after the manner of the circular amputation. In fact, this operation differs from the circular only in the form of the in- cision through the integuments.” (p. 379-82.) Fergusson’s mode of operating differs from Liston’s in the front flap being shorter. He thus describes it:—“ The heel of the instrument (an amputating knife seven inches long) should be laid on the side of the leg furthest from the Surgeon, and the blade should then be drawn across the front, cutting the semilunar flap of skin, until its point come opposite to where the edge was first laid on ; without raising the instrument, transfixion should next be made behind the bones, and the rest of the proceedings con- ducted as in other instances, (p. 398.) In whatever part of the limb the incisions are made I invariably preserve a semilunar flap in front, varying in length, in different cases from half an inch to an inch. I prefer this to the straight incision across the front, recommended by Mr. Hey, believing that the opposite surfaces will thus fit more accurately to each other.” (p. 400.)] [The ordinary place of amputating through the leg is, as already mentioned, a little below the knee, but formerly the AMPUTATION JUST ABOVE THE ANKLE was commonly practised, though now laid aside, and very rarely performed: it how- ever requires some notice. ’ The Dutch Surgeon, Solingen, advocated the preservation of as much of the leg as possible, and that the amputation should be performed immediately above the ankle • so hv lb” urnfi°la J°0t Wlth1narr0w steel P^tes might be screwed on to the sides of the leg, /’ n,! he ^blf.t0 Ya k as well as on that which he brought into the world with him Ana uiONis (a) is of the same opinion, advising the cutting off a leg as low as pos- witPTxred Te fil‘d ^selves able to preserve the motion of the knee.” (p 407 ) seenT tnf Man<:hester W als0 took 11P this practice in 1761, in consequence of having little eb "e yfr “,a woman who, twenty years before, had her leg taken off I o make her^waonkrlC’ 7 eT® °f her bro*er> who was a carpenter, and had promised mitnto't H .i - , den le6 of hls own contrivance. The Surgeon at first refused to am- ennc t w h.IS P ace; but belng told if he wpukl not, they would apply to another he shifffoine-^ d° 11 ,C0°trary t0 hls own opinion. The operation was performed by ’the ngle incision, and the stump was twelve months in healing.” (p. 169 ) He mentions over foe orff Wh’Ch h? PerTf°n1ned tbis operation, and was fully satisfied of its superiority followed 0’Ha7t m0< e.' his earlier cases he employed a double flap, but afterwards ° I an 8 (c) mode with a single flap, dressing it and the face of the Ba7Ti'iSmnra// WC|Undf’ andi n°- applyhlg the flap ti!1 the twelfth or fourteenth day. ba!lng noticed (about the year 1740) how well a woman nf tfo W hl f l08t both her feet and about three inches of the lower ends of the bones below fl'oskbltes’ ,m hls lectures, recommended “ the operation, when made was however6’ ^ ^ f "‘gh tbe ankl[\aS tbe nature of the case would admit of.” He lo^c • ’ lnduced t0 withdraw this recommendation from “some eminent Sur maile ’v SU,nng b"n * wou]d be impossible to heal the stump if the ampuSn was made very low ; for the tendons or their theca would slough, and most likelv a second o2eTZ\ZttheCO™ "riSS'?y-" (P' 1830 These absurdities, howeverfwere dis oroied by some cases in which the operation was performed hv a nnnil nf bio s, n which rnalirf, -Vu practlce in consequence of “ some cases occurring, ■tity of resting his^mip<on8fo Ur6 & °°mplete healing, and give foe patient an opportu- nist convenient ” fp ynfir,?0"/00' 6'' leg> or uslng a socket, as he might find I , ' (P' •,40-) He therefore amputated through the middle of the leg lion. KcUbof' 17rO™t'°nS 4e C*lirurB'e- Trans, a- (,■) A complete Treatise on Gangrene and (ft) An Account of a new method of Amnutatim? Vrfwn’!’ W1T " “®w met!‘od of Amputation. >e [.eg a little above the Ankle-joint *7' in \ [;lllr"rK'™l (ll'^'rvatn.t's and Cases, vol. i. ^Ied.cal Observations and Inquiries, vol iv EdiUon ; 0bservttt,ons on Surg®ry- Second