EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERIES. 237 I ternal carotid was pervious for about half an inch, and of its ordinary capacity. The i ternal vessels were not so well displayed. Those of the face did not receive the injec- >n. The common carotid trunk was impervious throughout its whole extent, being i duced to a mere cord. The external carotid was injected at its commencement: and : 2 superior thyroideal was filled from the arteries of the opposite side; but beyond this . b arteries were empty and therefore could not be satisfactorily traced. The free com- mication of the branches of the external carotids, in their natural state, affords an ia iple channel of supply, when the circulation in one is cut off. The aneurism must, Sir Astley Cooper suspected, have been situated in the internal carotid artery. ;(. 57.) The preparation of the carotid arteries of this case is in the Museum at St. gt iomas’s.] il442. If an aneurysm be seated in the branches of the carotid, the tying ' the affected artery must, if possible, be performed. This tying may so be required on account of other diseased conditions. We must Jserefore consider tying the external carotid, the lingual, the external 4 axillary, the temporal, the occipital, and the posterior aural. Tying Ae superior thyroideal artery will be mentioned in the treatment of 4 onchocele. | 1443. Tying the external carotid artery is considered as one of the most :{, fficult operations, on account of the vessel being surrounded with arteries, 4 ins, and nerves, and therefore also it is usually recommended to tie •lie common trunk instead of it (a). It has, however, been performed t»ccessfully by Busiie (6), on account of aneurysm by anastomosis; < Mott (c) in removal of the lower, and by Lizars (t/) in that of the L ’per jaw-bone. ^Dietrich (e) has proposed the most convenient mode of operating; s; finger’s breadth from the lower edge of the lower jaw, at a distance 1 half an inch from the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle towards ne larynx, a cut should be made obliquely upwards, and parallel to the Tge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, through the skin, cellular tissue, and m. svoatysma myoides. After the division of a thin layer of cellular tissue, -Le external cervical fascia appears, upon which run some veins, which 1 <e to be raised, and the fascia and the cellular tissue divided with the Ij.ndle of the knife. The internal cervical fascia is then to be cut through liljith slight strokes of the knife, and, whilst the edges of the wound are held * under with blunt hooks, the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle - 'pears on the outer edge of the wound ; at its inner edge the tono-ue- nne is felt; at the upper angle of the wound are seen the submaxillary : id parotid gland; at the under edge, the digastric muscle ; and at the wer angle the omo-hyoid. With the greatest care the fat and cellular 1 sue filling the bottom of the wound must now be divided, keeping wards the upper angle of the wound, for the purpose of best avoiding the • snous branches, to wit, the superior thyroideal, sublingual and facial” and us the artery is exposed, partially covered by the common trunk of the dal veins. Now begins the most difficult part of the operation, to wit isolation of the artery from the surrounding important parts. At the S""gle0nthe,W0Und the artery crosses the lower edge of the digastric irallel f'"if YT’pal trTk of tl,e ^poglossal nerve, which runs om thehvnn iedgei°f themu!c e; 0n tIie in.sidesome twigs pass down )p g ossal nerve, and, at the same time, the superior thyroideal <rU M Lancet, 1827-C8, vol. ii. p. 48’00 MANE°’ ab°V' 1843 eriCan Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. cited, pi. iv. ('!) I.uncet, 1829-30, vol. ii. p. 54. («) Above cited, p. 180.