504 HYDROCELE; ounce of water; the patient suffers little by this plan, and next day can stand withoii i- pain, and go about. Velpeau’s successful treatment has been confirmed by othen 1 In eleven hundred and forty-eight cases (a) treated with iodine injections, only thre 1 cases failed. In ten, injections with port wine failed. Injections of iodine succeeded ii | nine cases where previous use of port wine and sulphate of zinc had failed (4). [The injection of tincture of iodine diluted with water, I am convinced, b' | repeatedly practising it for some years, is the most effectual and least painful i the patient. Velpeau has the credit of introducing the practice, but I am informs j by medical friends who have been in India, it has long been practised there, and, if np ; recollection be not treacherous, without drawing the injection off again. An« this mode I have adopted, making use of a very fine trocar and canula, drawing ol the water, and injecting an ounce of fluid Containing two drams of tincture o iodine and six drams of water, and then immediately withdrawing the canula, t< I which the wound always clings very tightly, as the solution is very astringent. Tin patient most commonly suffers no pain, or at least a very trifling degree; and though on the following day the scrotum is a little reddened and rather firm, yet the patient ir not thereby prevented moving about with ease and comfort to himself. Indeed, I an informed that as soon as the injection is made the person walks away, and requires m further attention. The scrotum, according to my own observation, increases a little, auc. becomes rather more solid for three or four days, and then begins to subside, and in the course of a fortnight the cure is completed without confining the patient more than twe or three days, rather as precautionary, than that I believe it really necessary. I have employed this treatment in both large and small hydroceles, merely injecting the j quantity mentioned or a little less; and never either shaking the scrotum about or dis-: tending the cyst by repeated injections, and afterwards drawing it off, as Velpeau practises and recommends, I am quite sure that whoever once employs the iodine injection as I have mentioned, will not treat a hydrocele for the radical cure by any other means, Hydrocele is sometimes not even at first cured by injection; and this Astlev Cooper seems to think depends on the after-treatment; “ for,” he says, “ I sometimes- fail, and should very often but for great care in the after-treatment, upon which, I think, much depends. I sometimes, when water is reproduced a few days after the operation, tap it to remove the serum, and to produce, by this operation, a larger share j of inflammation.” (p. 106.) But occasionally the injection cures for a time, and then the disease reappears. i Brodie mentions two remarkable instances of this kind, one of which occurred l to a patient of Everard Home’s, in which the disease recurred after seventeen years; and another, which happened under his own care, in which the disease returned after twenty years, the operation by injection having been performed in both cases by Home. > Sometimes the inflammation set up by injection is so great as to terminate in suppu- ration ; when this happens, and the existence of pus is decidedly shown, a free cut into the vaginal tunic should be made, so that the pus may readily flow out; after which all the symptoms of constitutional excitement soon cease. If by accident the injection should be thrown into the cellular tissue of the scrotum instead of into the cavity of '■ the hydrocele, no time must be lost, but a free cut made through the skin, so that it may readily escape from the loose cellular tissue, otherwise there will be sloughing, and it may be the patient will lose his life, which has happened.—J. F. S.] 1954. For the introduction of a seton, after the puncture as already<*| directed lias been made with the trocar and canula, and the former with- < drawn, a long tube is passed deeply through the canula, till it reach j the fore and upper part of the scrotum. A long and pointed straight j sound, with an eye at its other end armed with several threads, is then j thrust through the tube outwards, carrying with it the threads, and then ( the canula is withdrawn. The ends of the setOn-threads are tied loosely together, the wounds covered with sticking plaster, and a bag truss pat I on. About the tenth or fourteenth day, some of the threads are w ithdraw a at each dressing, and this is continued till all be taken out. J. Holbrook (c) lets the water escape as usual, then takes up a fold of the skin Fkorikp’b N. Notizcn, vol. viii. 1836, (6) Oppenhf.im; in Hamburg. Zeitschr., vol. I Nov. viii. pi. iv. 1828.—Frick*; in same. (c) Observations on Hydrocele, etc. 1-ondon, 1825.