978 OF EXCISION from four and a half, to five and a half inches long, from the upper end o: which a second cut of four inches is carried backwards and downwards The triangular flap thus formed is dissected up, the insertion of the muscles at the upper and fore part of the trochanter cut through, the capsular ligament, and every spouting vessel tied, the head of the thigh-bone dis- located by turning the knee inwards, the round ligament cut through, aa spatula passed under the neck of the thigh-bone, and that or the great) trochanter sawn through with a small bow- or knife-saw. If the upper! edge of the hip-socket be carious, it may be removed with Hey’s saw, andc the socket itself touched with the actual cautery, y, A semilunar flap, according to Velpeau, in which the cut is carried from the front uppert spine of the ilium to the ischial tuberosity, and a semilunar flap with its - convexity downwards, is dissected up, and the back of the joint opened. Hewson’s method of making a semilunar flap above the trochanter, and turning it downwards, is inefficient. And like it is Jaegeb’s semicir- cular cut carried round the great trochanter with its convexity upwards. Third. By Textor’s oval cut; he makes a cut beginning two inches : above the great trochanter, carries it obliquely backwards and outwards,- and ends it about an inch before the little trochanter. To this first cut; follows a second, which, beginning on the front of the thigh opposite the’ point where the former ended, is carried obliquely outwards and upwards,-,’ and meets with it at a rather acute angle above the great trochanter. T hisi- second cut at first divides only the skin, but afterwards is continued down:; to the neck of the thigh-bone. The soft parts are then separated from • the great trochanter, the capsular ligament cut into with a strong scalpel I from within outwards, following always the edge of the hip-socket, over half its extent, down to the head of the thigh-bone, the knee being then bent inwards, the round ligament is divided with the scalpel, the head of I the bone dislocated, fixed with the hand, and a knife carried round the part \ where the bone is to be divided, so that the track of the saw may be made <J easy and then the bone cut through with the osteotome, or with a small!* bow- or knife-saw. When the operation has been finished, the vessels tied, and the wound j cleansed, some sutures are put in at the upper part, and supported with«J straps of plaster, but the lower end is left open with a strip of linen in it, to favour the escape of the discharge. The wound is covered with lin • and compresses, which are kept together with a cloth passed around. 1 ,e - feet maybe tied together, or, if circumstances permit, Hagedorn s appa-H ratus may be put on. . Of the seven cases, published, of excision of the neck of the thigh-bone, hut one *J terminated successfully. It is incorrect to include with these, those cases in vine 1 “ head of the thigh-bone had been completely destroyed by caries, or had tx'cn remo necrosed, (Schmalz,) as well as the mere sawing through the neck of the bone m an r losis, (Barton, Rogers.) A case of Ki.uoe’s (a) and one of Ohi.e’s (b) are doubt u • Anthony White (c) cut off the head of the thigh-bone in a boy of fourteen on account of very severe hip disease; four inches of the bone were removed, it or a very useful artificial joint; the patient lived five years, and could use the1,0110 V feedy well; it did not even appear much shortened. Carmichael (rf) Fr,orn , v operation on a young woman for medullary sarcoma of the thigh but she died thi J,1 Oppenheim (c) performed it on account of a crushing of the head and neck of lei b bone and of the great trochanter, by a musket-ball; he sawed off the lower end of tw («-) Waoneh, Article Deenpitatio; in Busch, (c) London Medical Gazette, vol. P- VON Gkakfe, Hufeland, and Rudolphi’s Ency- 1832. , _ . , ._ ; clopaedischei Worterbucb, vol. ix. p. 188. (4 O”™" 8 Zc,tschr,ft’ «>■ (A) Schmidt’s Jahrbuch, vol. li. part i. p. 116. (c) Abo\c cited.