994 OF RESECTION b uch der Chirurgie. Article Resectio Ossium, ■which treats very fully of the decapita- tion and resection of the several bones. _ [Perry (a) had a case of necrosis of the whole lower jaw, the front of which he removed by making an incision from the front of one masseter muscle to the other, dividing the bone on each side with the saw and nippers On the next day the right ascending branch which had dropped a little, was removed without difficulty ; and three weeks after, the left, which adhered rather more firmly.] Sixth Section.-OF RESECTION OR EXCISION IN THE CONTINUITY OF BONES. (Hesectio Ossium in continuitate, Lat.; Resection in der Continuitat der Knochen, Germ.; Resection, Fr.) I.—Of Resection of the Upper Jaw. 2846. Resection of the Zipper Jaw, performed at an early period for various diseases in the Highmorian cavity, with chisel and hammer, or with the sickle-shaped knife (Desault), has been in modern times spe- cially brought into notice by Dupuytren in 1819, and since then per- formed by many Surgeons. It is indicated in caries, fungous degenera- tion of the alveolar process and of the upper jaw, in osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma, in medullary fungus, and polypous degeneration of the maxillary cavity. The performance of this operation is difficult, the shock very great; violent bleeding, and spreading of the inflammation to the brain may occur; and in malignant degeneration, the permanent benefit of the operation is very doubtful on account of the frequent recurrence of the disease. . . rGensocl (b) shows that Dupuytren did not remove the whole jaw in 1819, but only followed Jourdain and Desault’s method of scooping out the contents ofThe aj trum- and in regard to Sanson and Pinel Grandchamp, who were stated to have wit nessed this operation, he says I saw these two practitioners for the purpose of know- ing what method had really been adopted Sanson informed me that he hid no knoj ledge of the fact of an entire removal of the superior maxillary bone, that he knew only of the operation performed in 1820, which was similar t0 of the other in the year 1824 ; and that in the latter case, a large piece of the edge ot the alveolar process had been removed with a small saw. Pinel Grandchamp said he had witnessed the two operations mentioned by Sanson, but lie had never heard say ffia Dupuytren had even thought of removing the whole superior * w(P.'e ,he Rut neither Dupuytren nor Desault, nor Garengeot, noi «J * V • original performers even of this scooping operation, for Akoluthus (c), a p mi n Breslau, being consulted in 1693, by a woman who had a.^“0^t ^o^’nart of the lowed the extraction of a tooth, enlarged the mouth with a cut, remo e p rt ° swelling, together with f ur teeth, but not being able at once to get complete } it, he attacked it several times, at intervals of a few days, sometimes with cutting instruments, and sometimes with the actual cautery, and at last succeeded g PaThf nearest approach to a total removal of the whole superior n'axillary bon^if i • non iq*io graves du Sinufr Maxillnirc ct dc l ^ a (c) Ephemerid. Medico-physicarum. etc. Deed. m. Ann. iv. vm.o*.