OF VACCINATION. 874 (2) According to Gregory, “vaccine virus may be preserved fluid and effective for two or three days in small bottles with projecting ground stoppers, fitted to retain the matter. It may be preserved for a like time in small capillary tubes, having a central bulb. This is the mode used in France for the transmission of vaceine lymph to the provinces, and which proves very effectual; but if you attempt in this manner to transmit lymph to the East or West Indies, you will fail utterly. Ivory points, when well armed and carefully dried, are very effective. They will retain their activity in this climate for many months, and they are found to be the most certain mode of sending lymph to our colonies. Some practitioners prefer glasses to points, but they are less certain. The employment of scabs for the propagation of cow-pox was first recommended by Mr. Bryce, of Edinburgh, in 1802. It is a very excellent mode of transmitting vac- cine matter to distant countries, but some nicety is required in operating with scabs, which experience alone cau teach.” (pp. 198, 99.) . . As regards the period at which lymph should be taken for vaccination, Gregory sayS •_« The younger the lymph is, the greater is its intensity. The lymph of a fifth-day vesicle, when it can be obtained, never fails. It is, however, equally powerful up to he eighth day, at which time it is also most abundant. After the formation of areola, the true specific matter of cow-pox becomes mixed with variable proportions of serum he result of common inflammation, and diluted lymph is always less efficacious than the concentrated virus. After the tenth day the lymph becomes mucdagnu.™ fluid in which state it is not at all to be depended on. Infantile Ijmpni more to be depended on than the lymph obtained from adults The ^ vaccinations is more energetic than that of secondary vaccinations, (pp. 195, 9b.)J 2648 Vaccination is a completely dangerless operation which may be performed at any time of year and in any age. It seems, however, most, suitable, unless there be prevailing small-pox, to perform it in the secon half of the child’s first year, in spring, summer, or autumn, when th child’s health is undisturbed. . , , , miict 2649. If vaccination be performed from a fresh pustule, the chi be placed on the lap of a sitting person. The point of a lancet is o be introduced into such pustule, as above described, of a person near at han , so as to brincr away some of the clear matter upon it withou draw ng blood The child’s upper-arm is then grasped, the skin drawn tight, an J e diarged lancet thrust in obliquely, about a line beneath which must be gently lifted, the point of the lancet moved a little back wards and forwards, and the left thumb being placed on its point, th lancet Is then laid flat, and drawn out. In this way, three insertions of matter are to be made’on each arm. Dressing ts unnecessary. If the wound bleed, it must be left to dry, and not be rFor the proper performance ofvaccination, Gregory s j ■ ‘ tjon that ingly sharp. U should penetrate the cation to a ^considerable deptk the subsequent effusion of blood W^1 wash out , h of due intensity h» is quite imaginary and groundless. Provided that g y ^ .g immatenal. once come in contact with the absorbing surfi , linthinff can prevent the The vessels of the part have received the specific stimu li , incision, the advance of the disorder, but some constitutional cause. In niak g 'e’"cft d £B be held perfectly tense between the forefinger and^ The lancet should be held in a slanting posi ion, ai , 0f ordinary intensity, i w,,wards * * * I would recommend that, with lymph otwinarj fivlvesicles should be raised, and that these should be at such disttnces from as not to become confluent in their advance to maturation (pp- 10] 2650. If vaccination be performed with dry matter, m . int. with pure water, «, that a part of it may be got upon ^ ance.^^ In other respects, the proceeding is precisely the same after vaccination, if it be effectual. It' mode. jut;. , . i 2651. The appearances which ensue “ 0,!7he1.™amls7co.,d day only a trace of the slight stab is observed. On