876 OF INFUSION AND TRANSFUSION. converted into an ulcer, or a mere slough ; if instead of a dusky-brown 1 or blackish scab, a yellowish-green, loose scab be formed; if the febrile.' symptoms be entirely absent, or do not appear at the proper time, the vac- - cination must be considered as a failure, and the security from it of not value. The cause may rest on vaccinating with bad matter, it it be nott clear, or if the lymph employed be putrid, if it be inserted too deeply, orr if it be inserted with a blister-plaster. [On this point Gregory remarks:-" Occasionally we meet with persons who from some peculiarity of habit, are wholly insensible to the vaccine poison, in -whateier intensitv! and by whatever mode it is applied. They receive it as they would so much cold water. The proportion of mankind who exhibit this idKisyncrasy is verj sma . I mav have seen thirty or forty such cases in the course of my life. It w ould be very interesting to determine whether this constitutional inaptitude to cow-pox denotes a like inantitude^to receive and develop the variolous poison. In the few cases which I have seen, where inoculation was subsequently tried, the insusceptibility was P™^tex- tend to both poisons ; but I have read of instances of an °PP°site kind. insusceptibility to the vaccine poison is, in some cases, obviously dependent on constuu "wSess, displayed in the slowness of dentition, the imperfect ossification of the head and the emaciated aspect of the body. There exists here an atony of the ab- sorbent system.” (pp- 188, 189.)] 2653. The after-treatment of vaccination simply requires proper regu- lation of the health. Care must be taken that the child do not touch or scratch the pock. In severe inflammation cold applications must be ma , and if much fever, proper diet must be directed If there be >»^h sup- puration at the vaccination spot, lead wash must be appli . , of the skin, which sometimes occur after vaccination, either subside | themselves under proper treatment, or by the use of slightly-diaphoret retire (1) If rtJ vaccination fail, it must after some time be re- iS r^rnT—n,” says Gregory “to find rally or partially, with a papulous eruption, o a ic_ j tio’n . ^ut js frequent the twelfth day, or even later. It is seldom seen in adult^cmafron^ discharged in children full of blood, in whom numerous vesicles had h^ rmsed, great freely. Vaccine lichen, as this eruption is propcrly^l'ed, often occjBonj^ aiixiety in the mind of the parent, from a minute^esicles^ but this latter ap- I have seen it in such intensity as to be followt y attributable to the peculiar pearance is very rare. It is an accidental occurrence, V delicacy of the child’s skin and fulness of habit. Like , • • ot deemed fever, it indicates that the disease has taken effect on the system; but it is essential to the success of the process.” (p. 191.)] VI.—OF INFUSION AND TRANSFUSION. Denis, J., Lettrc sur la Transfusion du Sang. Paris, 1667. Merklin, De Ortu et Occasu Traufusionis Sanguinis. Nurimb., 1679. Major, Chirurgia Infusoria. Kilon. 17tx. Ettmuller, De Chirurgia Transfusoriil. Lipsioe, 1697. duug die**