613 THROUGH THE RECTUM. i wards the root of the penis, the prostate, and part of the lower wall of ie bladder is laid bare, and then upon the groove of a staff introduced ito the bladder, the prostate is to be divided in its mesial line; or the « nife may be passed behind the prostate through the wall of the bladder the groove of the staff and the base of the bladder divided to a cer- tain extent. if , The latter method is fully described by Sanson ; the former is rather indicated. The iff when introduced is to be held upright, the left forefinger, with its volar surface wards, is to be introduced into the rectum, and upon it the blade of a straight bistoury id flat; its edge is then turned up, and with a single cut the outer sphincter muscle, together with the lower part of the rectum, is cut through in the direction of the raphe. ■.;he groove of the staff is now sought for with the finger behind the exposed prostate, jilt e point of a bistoury introduced upon it, and as it is pushed along the groove, a cut is ai ade in the lower wall of the bladder, which commencing behind its neck, passes in the it jesial line to the midst of the space between the two ureters, through which the stone ahextracted. Vacca Berlinghieri has specially defended the first mode, and has fully dMt forth his preference of it both by reasoning and experience, so that his essay may be I'ulnsidered the best guide for recto-vesical lithotomy. U 2115. The patient must be placed and bound as for the lateral opera- ; on; a staff is passed into the bladder, and given to an assistant, who )lds it firmly and perpendicularly, so that its groove corresponds to tire esial line of the urethra and the raphe. The operator then takes a might bistoury with his right forefinger and thumb, where the blade eets the handle, and lays its blade flat on the volar surface of the left ■refinger, in such way that both its edge and point are covered ; the ger and knife are then passed into the rectum, and carried upwards ten twelve lines, the dorsal surface of the finger corresponding to the ft filow of the sacrum. Whilst the operator presses the hind wall of the 9 adder with this finger, he turns with his right hand the edge of the ft stoury upwards, and with the forefinger pressing its back, he thrusts its $ fint through the front wall of the rectum, and as he withdraws the knife, iff its through the rectum, the external sphincter muscle and the cellular K ssue covering the urethra. The operator now leaves the bistoury with h e left forefinger, turns the dorsal surface of this finger towards the left i id its cubital surface upwards, carries its tip into the wound of the ® 'hinder, and places his nail (which in this operation should be always < me) in the groove of the staff, which can be felt through the wall of 1ie urethra. Guided by the nail of the left forefinger, the point of the ft stoury, with its edge downwards, is carried through the wall of the I rethra into the groove of the staff, and supported on the nail, is pushed I awards in a corresponding direction to the raphe, by which the neck of “ e bladder and the prostate are divided to a greater or less extent, ac- ;f. Tding to the presumed size of the stone. The staff is now removed, and e finger passed through the wound into the bladder, by which is ascer- Ilned whether the wound be sufficiently large, or whether it require I < argement, which may be easily done with a common or button-ended ■ s oury introduced on the left forefinger. The forceps are passed in upon ft e same finger, and the stone extracted according to the rules already . ven. After the wound has been cleansed, the patient is to be put in the | me posture as after the lateral operation. Any dressing of the wound objectionable. sL S':>lt0(,the Prostate W1,k Frere Gome’s lithotome, introduced into the groove of ■ Kienttha^with ffuTbistan0US *S 0Pune<^’ 35 IApuytren and others do, is less com-