PROLAPSE 126 becomes a question whether the patient can , relieved; for, although not instance has come under my care, “Jordinary occupation, entirely cured, the patient has been en haired hysterical, well-formed, but not Case.—M. A., aged twenty-five years, a fan-haired, nysitn , stout single woman, came under my care, sixteen years old, and for the first Oct. 24, 1837.—She began to menstruateand suffered very year had good health ; but since that pen° • been scanty, and not lasting much at her monthly times. The menstrual discharge ^ ^ engagt;d in her more than two days, when she has be“ S0£ t it has been plentiful, and lasted four days, occupation as housemaid, and able t0 bt ab01 -thi fog last three or four years, has She has always had much increased, that, for the last suffered much from leucorrhma and the be1 Bj employment, aud been compelled to twelvemonth, she has been unable protrusion was as large as a cowrie-shell, and, give up her place. Five months ago the dually void her urine for then she exerted herself, l4,b“®^ Micturition was always twelve or sixteen hours, and then the protrusior ^ ghe could vold any water; accompanied with sharp smarting F1; repeated efforts, however, she was at sometimes not for eighteen or twenty hours : j P the introduction of a catheter, last enabled to empty her bladder and never £ber shaped pessary; but it was Last spring she attempted weajan an diafel Pdropped out. For the last three useless, as, whenever she walked aboutrt i yand Porn a sponge pessary, which has kept the swelling up, the feasibility of friend Dr. Locoes.. As ®be ba )() f tl“ size of a cowrie, protruded through the os partially filled, and a swelling, about the e furcuia. Some of the ruga of the externum vagina, and just appears bc„an /foil inch behind the orifice of the vagina were very distinct, au|ali0wed the ready entrance of a catheter meatus, which canal was not at all fosplacefl, ana ai -was then found into the bladder Slight.pressureeluding the vagina with the depressed to within an inch of the “ ™\he fl.ontof the neck of the womb that no speculum, it was seen to be so l tb f the os uleri t0 the front wall of the appearance of neck remained; atfromthe pane ^ aMMae> behind the neck, vagina, was one continuous and very ®j^wn the speculum, I could without was, on the contrary, veiy deep. g vaqina from the back of the bladder, and difficulty, nip up an inch and a i half ot the vagi ^ tw0 0f the lax part, having ascertained this, it was determined to ie ^ for Uthotomy as there was Nov. 12.—Having bound faer, and put ^ driving the swelling down, I commenced but little protrusion, and her t‘ r/ t 0 ' foe vagina, and passing a tenaculum through, the operation by pinching up the front ot ^ &q below foe os uteri drew it down ; I then intioduced a nuroose of drawing down the vagina after and half an inch above tbe prevent difficulty from its retraction. The the removal of the proposed si p, Pj|m was then drawn down, and having been portion of the vagina mduded on h t horizontal cut, about an inch and a half felt to be separated from the blnddei, l m, bladder, first with the blade, and in length, carefully separated the W^J^^Hp^ith my thumb and finger mmmmmimn 13—Last evening .h.reMS. ^ the pubes. She feels ratherfamt but he ^ but sbe complains of much pam