SPINA VENTOSA. 678 the skin is tense, sometimes inflames, at last bursts, hectic fever is set up and the patient’s powers are broken up. The ulceration may run into s i cancer-like ulcer. Many differences, however, present themselves in the progress of osteosarcoma and osteosteatoma; the pain is sometimes very 1 severe at the onset, and diminishes or entirely subsides afierwards; somerj times the disease remains in one definite state, and the pain ceases; some •.< times the pain prevails with equal severity from the beginning to the enn « of the disease. It is self-evident that from the situation of the disease^ from its spreading, and from the neighbourhood of important organs symptoms may be produced. 2217. The external condition of the tumour varies; sometimes it L, confined by well-marked bounds to one part of the bone, sometimes 1 involves the whole bone. In general, osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma] have no precisely defined limits, but are gradually lost in the neighbouring^ parts; the swelling does not entirely resist the pressure of the finger, bui shows rather some elasticity, and at several parts a seeming fluctuation, by which it is distinguished from exostosis. 2218. The treatment of osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma precisely agree?- with that of exostosis. At first, if merely pain be present, remedies op-, posed to the cause of the disease must be employed, in connexion with blood-letting, cold applications and the like upon the affected part, for its somewhat possible prevention. These are the only remedies which can be employed for its control, when the swelling has already made some pro- gress ; however, usually, no advantage is thereby gained, and time is merely lost in the progressive increase of the swelling. The alone remedy, if the seat and condition of the disease permit, is the removal of the swelling with the saw, or with the chisel and hammer, or the amputation of thefe limb if tumour have attained considerable size, or the whole bone bet affected. Where possible, the amputation should be performed above the next joint. The prognosis always remains in other respects doubtful, because in most cases the disease again shows itself on the scar, or on some other parUJ 2219. Spina ventosa or Pcedarthrocace ( Winddom, Germ.) is a swel- ling partially or entirely occupying the whole extent of the bone, tolerably equal and regular, in which the nature of the bony tissue is in \anoust ways conditioned. Sometimes a regular, firm bony crust, which isj perforated at different parts, forms the exterior of the swelling, m ten cavities of which a cartilaginous mass is found with irregular, isola • or attached bony growths. Sometimes the external wall of this swelling-I is formed merely of very much expanded periosteum•, and the substances within, as in the former case. Sometimes tlve interior contains one <>r>fl several cavities, filled with variously coloured ichorous fluid, a reddis ' gelatinous substance, or with decomposed and clotted blood. In the wal s of these cavities is found sometimes a cartilaginous, sometimes a lar^ like substance, sometimes necrosed or carious pieces of bone, which mus j be considered partly as the remains of the destroyed original bone, an j partly as a new production (a). . . 2220. This disease always declares itself a longer or shorter time m the swelling appears, by dull deep pain in the bone, which is set up «> of its own accord, or after some external violence. 1 he swelling a either as a conical or spherical knob, or as a regular swelling, mci (n) Delpech, Pri-cis ElemenUirp, vol iii. p. 3s3.