468 WATER IN THE HEAD; CLEFT SPINE—TREATMENT. charge ; that the discharge ought to he stopped, and the puncture accurately closed, as to prevent the entrance of air, as soon as the pulse begins to sink ; and that resto tives should he exhibited in order to prevent convulsions or other nervous symptoi The operation seems to he best performed by a small trocar or grooved needle, but it difficult to withdraw any fluid with the latter, as the surrounding pressure fills up i croove The application of a cupping glass may, however, produce a discharge, pointed thin trocar, with a two-edged lancet-shaped extremity, not a thick tnangu instrument, is preferable upon the whole.” (p. 083.) (2) This is not quite correct. Abernethy first suggested the trial of slight pr sure on the swelling of spina bifida, even from the first, so as to excite absorpt'ty and to prevent the distension of the unsupported dura mater. He also first puncturer case of this sort, which was hopeless, and repeated it every fourth day for six wee during which time the wounds healed regularly, and the child s health remained und turbed. But at last the plaster slipped off, the wound ulcerated, suppuration ensu> and the child died. Astley Cooper first practised pressure, and afterwards puncti with a fine needle and pressure. In two of his cases the patients were alive and healtl the one twenty-eight and the other twenty-nine years after this treatment. Hewett lays down two good general rules in regard to puncturing spina bifii according to Astley Cooper’s method. “ First. The tumour ought never to be pm tured along the mesial line, especially in the sacral region; for it is generally at ti Dart that the cord and its nerves are connected with the sac. The puncture is to made at one side of the sac, and at its lowest part, so as to diminish the risk of woundi. anv of the nervous branches. Second. The instrument ought to be a grooved neet or a small trocar ; for if a lancet be used, there wiU be great risk of wounding soi- important part contained in the cavity of the tumour.” (p. 463.) Compare, on the Surgical treatment of Hydrocephalus and Spina bifida— Abernethy, John, An Account of Spina bifida; with remarks on a method of trer ment. London, 1810. Cooper, Astley ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ii. p. 324. 1813. Earle Henry, Case of Hernia of the Dura Mater connected with Hydrocephal internus;' in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 427. 1816. Sherwood, H., in Medical Repository of New York, vol. i. p. 1. 1812. Otto; in his Seltenen Beobachtungen. Breslau, pt. i. p. 66. 1816. Hayes, Pliny; in New England Journal, vol. i. p. 237. Newendorff, De Spina; bifida; Curatione radical!. Lips., 1S20. Trompei, B., above cited. Freckleton, in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xvn. p. 240. 18-1 Lizars, in same, p. 243. Vacca Berlinghieri, above quoted, p. 251. Probart, F. L.; in Lancet, vol. xi. P-800. . of fluid drawn at any one time was twenty ounces and a-lialf, the grea : operationstn the same child five, at intervals of from two to six weeks. Ihelarge. “to known cases of puncture, a, one which he himself treated, and has determined the applicability oftlns . 1889 The nearly always unfavourable result of repeated Pu”ft“r“. ^ ha. recently led to various modes of treatmentvnth to effect, by the removal of the sac, at the same time, . ^ opentag excommunication with the spinal canal, ns DoBOt.no <», vignot (c) Bevnaud (rf), have shown, with s"c'^“ (a) Ueber die Punktion des chronischen in- (b, Jonrn. de :I. • „ Wasserkopfes; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. , A.; in New York Medical and Phvsical Journal, 1828.—Marsdkn; in Lancet, 1830-31, vol. i. p. 648. X,gV G^tte Medicate de Paris, vol. U. P-« p. TOO. 1841. (d) Ibid., p. 573.