5G3 CRUSHING, OR LITIIOTRITY. 2 o 2 0 pierce without breaking it, the borer must, with certain intervals, operate v only so long on the stone, till there is but a line from the tip of the forceps, a Attempts must then be made either to give the stone another position, and operate with the borer on its other side, or if the patient be fatigued, the is operation must be stopped. 2046. Jacobson’s instrument is introduced just as a common catheter. , Having reached the bladder, gentle movements are to be made with its :j oeak to find the stone ; the instrument can also be twisted to the half of o fs long axis, so that its point may be directed against the back of the bladder, the handle of the instrument raised, pushed gently forwards and r backwards, to one or other side, so as to sound every part of the bladder, r HVhen the stone is found, the curved part of the instrument is to be laid '> >n its side upon it, the movable branch pushed forwards, so that the loop i, s formed within the bladder, and then by lateral movements of the instru- , nent, or by correspondingly raising and sinking one part of the pelvis, cp ittempts are made to bring the stone into the loop. When the stone is »v relieved to be caught in its middle, the movable branch is drawn some- f vhat back, so as to diminish the size of the loop. In order to break the tone now grasped, the screw is to be turned from left to right, as far as j§ ts length allows. If the stone be broken, the loop is to be again opened, J ;nd it is again attempted in the same way as at first, to grasp the single -f ragments, and to crush them, which must be repeated as often as any >: ragments are to be found for crushing, and the patient does not express 0 ny considerable pain. When the instrument is withdrawn, its movable d 'ranch must be pushed sufficiently forward till it be completely closed, 1 nd if this be prevented by any fragment, the loop is to be repeatedly pened, and the instrument made to move in different directions, for the 2 urpose of getting rid of the fragments from the loop ; and then when the a istrument is completely closed, it may be withdrawn like a catheter, i he instrument is used in the same way for repeatedly crushing the stone \'M ragments. 2047. Heurteloup’s percuteur is introduced into the bladder like catheter, and the stone searched for with it. Thp in<Ur>,monf tc ay down, the hammering may be given up, and the