740 POLYPS IN THE MAXILLARY SINUS; nication with the nostril is narrowed, or completely stopped up. Tl unnaturally secreted fluid, which is either puriform, lymph-like, actu pus, or even a solid cheese-like substance collects in the cavity, which expands; at the same time the cheek is reddened to a certain extent, tl \ j nostril of the affected side becomes drier, the pain becomes more sever r loss of sleep, and the like, ensue. As the maxillary cavity continuJ enlarging, its walls expand, in general, most towards the front, but al:J| towards the orbit, towards the nostril, and towards the palate; in cons, quence of which great disfigurement of the face, closure of the nostril < the affected side, pressure on the eyeball, and the like, are produced. Tl bony walls, by their expansion, become thinned, and sometimes so soft tkl they yield on pressure of the finger; at last they are destroyed at son one spot, fistulous openings are produced in the cheek, in the orbit, in tl palate, and most commonly at the edge of the tooth-sockets, fiom "hie pus escapes, and a probe can be passed into the maxillary sinus. 2349. The above-mentioned inflammatory symptoms, more or le decidedly pronounced, always precede the formation of polyps, osteostee tojna, osteosarcoma, and exostosis, in the maxillary cavity.. Polyps grow quickly, expand the cavity in all directions, destroy tr front wall or the edge of the tooth-socket, and burst through these open ings • the walls of the cavitv being at the same time softened. Frequently tl polyp passes through the aperture of the cavity into the nostril ; sometime it rises more especially towards the inner angle of the orbit; at other time* leaves the front wall untouched, drives up into the cavity of the skull, and may cause death by pressure on the brain. . In osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma, the bones forming the maxiliar cavity are converted into a mass, consisting in part of a viscid, papp substance, in part of a fat or tallow-like substance, and m part of a earn laginous and bony substance. The enlargement of the tumour caused D a polyp always runs on more quickly than in that from osteosteatoma an osteosarcoma. , , f .1. 2350. Inflammation being considered as the general ground"oik diseases of the maxillary sinus, the following may be mentionedl a* causes. External violence, catching cold, rheumatic, gouty, scrofulousa « syphilitic diseases; suppressed eruptions of the skin, varies a > the teeth corresponding to the maxillary cavity injury of the tooUnwc in drawing teeth, foreign bodies, insects, and the like. 1 lie i minations of inflammation of the maxillary cavity, seem m par j on the variety of its causes, as for example; in catarrhal anc affections of the mucous membrane of the bones of the face, i * H layer especially, is attacked, and the inflammation passes on to btcnm r loosening up, and polypous degeneration of the mucous memb e, ^ gouty and syphilitic inflammation rather attack the under la5cr . kl mucous membrane, which blends with the periosteum, and more q runs into ulceration and degeneration of the bones. . j 2351. The prognosis of the various diseases of the atio« guided by their cause and degree. In the acute course prope if not caused by internal disease, its dispersion may be effected and early treatment, but it is generally more difficult inofth, tions When the disease has proceeded to a closure of the 1 aI1( maxillary sinus, and to organic changes, the c^ is alva Section o impossible without operation. In the blennorrhagic state, 1% 1C ti •v 1 s a <r. 1