996 OF RESECTION [There can be no doubt that Lizars is justly entitled to the credit of having, in 1826, proposed the entire removal of the superior maxillary. Speaking of “polypi or sarcomatous tumours which grow in the antrum,” he says (a) : —“ All the cases that have come within my knowledge, (with the exception of one,) wherein these sarcomatous tumours have been removed by laying open the antrum, have either returned or termi- nated fatally. I am therefore decidedly of opinion, that unless we remove the whole diseased surface, which can only be done by taking away the entire superior maxillary bone, we merely tamper with the disease, put our patient to excruciating suffering, and ultimately to death. The inferior maxillary bone has now been nearly entirely re- moved for osteosarcoma with success, and I see no difficulty in accomplishing the same with one of the superior maxillary. We secure the common carotid artery for other tumours of the face, and for aneurism by anastomosis, and why not do it for so loathsome and fatal a disease as this ? The steps or plan of the operation I would suggest for so fatal a disease, are, first, to secure the trunk of the common carotid artery of the affected side ; next to make an incision through the cheek, from the angle of the mouth back- wards or iniad to the masseter muscle, carefully avoiding the parotid duct, then to divide the lining membrane of the mouth, and to separate the soft parts from the bone upwards to the floor of the orbit; thirdly, to detach the half of the velum palati from the palate bone. Having thus divested the bone to be removed of its soft coverings, the mesial incisive tooth of the affected side is to be removed ; then the one superior maxillary bone to be separated from the other, at the mystachial and longitudinal pala- tine sutures, and also the one palate bone from the other, at the same palatine suture, as the latter bone also will require to be removed either by the forceps of Mr. Liston, or a saw; thirdly, the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone should be cut across with the forceps; fourthly, its malar process, where it joins the cheek-bone; fifthly, the eye with its muscles and cellular cushion being carefully held up by a spatula, the floor of the orbit is to be cleared of its soft connexions, and the superior maxillary bone separated from the lacrymal and ethmoid bones, with a strong scalpel. The only objects now holding the diseased mass, are the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone with the pterygoid muscles. These bony processes will readily yield by depressing or shaking the anterior part of the bone, or they may be divided by the forceps, and the muscles cut with the knife. The bone or bones are frequently so soft in this disease, as to be easily cut with a knife or scissors. After the bone with its diseased tumour has been removed, the flap is to be carefully replaced, and the wound in the cheek held to- gether by one or two stitches, adhesive plaster and bandage. In no other way do I see that this formidable disease can be eradicated.” (p. 58.) The operation which Lizars proposed, he endeavoured to perform in December, 1827, but without success, and he thus mentions it (b) :—“I attempted to remove this bone for a medullary sarcomatous tumour of the antrum, from a miner or collier, after securing the common carotid artery of the affected side, but I was prevented by the haemorrhagic disposition of the gum and palate, my patient having lost, in a few seconds, upwards of two pounds of blood, which welled out at every incision, as if there had been an aneurism by anastomosis. The man survived this attempt seventeen months.” (p. 54.) _ , On August 1,1829, Lizars performed his second operation (c); he first tied the trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary arteries, and also the external jugular vein which had been divided on the first incision. He cut through the alveolar process and bony palate on the left side of the palatine suture, and completely separated the upper jaw, with the saw, Liston’s forceps and strong scissors; but the orbitar plate was separated from the eyeball by the handle of a knife. The tumour was medullary sarco- matous, and a portion of it, attached to the pterygoid process of the sphenoid hone, could not be detached ; but part of the malar bone involved in the disease was removed.. On the sixteenth day the wound had healed, and she left the house on thatday. Three days after she expired suddenly, but uo examination was permitted. Lizars’ third operation (d) was performed on 10th January, 1830, on a woman, after having first tied the external carotid artery. After slitting up the nostril, making a flap of the cheek, and divestiug the bone of its coverings where it was to be sawn through, he applied the saw on “ the front of the superior maxillary bone between the nostril and the mouth, or at the side of the mystachial suture ; the palatine plate back- wards from this, parallel with the longitudinal palatine suture, to near where the trans- palatine suture exists; across the same palatine plate towards the bulbous process; verse (n) A System of Anatomical Plates, &c., part ix. The Organs of Sense, &c. Edinburgh, 182b. 8vo. (6) Lancet. 1829-30; vol. ii. (<0 18 0. (<0 London Medical Gazette, vol. v. P' Lancet, above cited.