TREATMENT OF RETENTION OF URINE 426 and to make a false passage instead of entering the bladder. [Most excellent direction: and cannot be too closely followed.—.r. f. s.] I generally find,” continues Bitooii uu cannot ue too cioseiy loiiuwcu.—j. *. o.j » gcuciauj uuu, wuuuura •• that I introduce the catheter best by keeping the handle of it close to the left groin oi the patient I pass it as far as possible in this position; then I bring the hand! forwards, nearly at a right angle to the pubes, and not elevating it towards th. navel. The next thing is to depress the handle, which is to be done gently and slowly by placing a single finger on it and pressing it downwards towards the space betweei the thighs. In depressing the handle, you generally find the point of the catheter slid into the bladder. Sometimes, however, this does not happen until you withdraw th *K^ ant rtf' rlrtiiifr this, thp introduction of the catheter is comnleted « into tne oiaaaer. sometimes, now ever, mis uui uuui jvu nuuuiaw mi stilette; and in the act of doing this, the introduction of the catheter is completed. * (p. 177.) “ I do not mean to lay it down absolutely as a rule, that you should allow th: *■« T nnvtain that it. i<; nrndont. to do so in the exeat maioritv n ^p, I//.; I ao not mean to lay it uuwu auaoiutcij as a tuic, mat juu m catheter to remain, but I am certain that it is prudent to do so in the great majority o cases. If you remove it, so abundant is the flow of urine which immediately take place from the kidneys, that you will find the bladder again loaded, and requiring th re-introduction of the catheter within five or six, perhaps even within three o four hours. It will be necessary to use the catheter again after another short interval and it will often happen, when there has been no difficulty in the first introduction of ii that there is considerable difficulty afterwards. You avoid all this by leaving th catheter in the bladder; and there is another advantage in this mode of proceeding; The prostate is kept in a state of more complete repose, and in one much mor favourable to recovery, so far as recovery can take place, that it would be in, if irritatet by repeated introductions of tbe instrument.” (p. 180.) “You will very rarely fail, b; dexterous management, to introduce the catheter, but you may fail, nevertheless in some instances. What is to be done under these circumstances? * r * koumay puncture the bladder above the pubes, or you may proceed thus ; When all your effort to introduce the catheter have been unavailing; when you feel the point pressing against the tumor of the prostate, and unable to pass over it, apply some force to th instrument at the same time that you depress the handle. It will generally penetrate through the prostate, enter the bladder by an artificial opening, and relieve the patient and, of course, will continue to relieve him, if you allow it to remain in the bladaeM This mode of proceeding has been strongly recommended by some very good Surgeons and I am not aware that it is attended with danger, although it may not be withou its disadvantages. There is reason to believe, that in some cases in which this tut been done, the natural orifice of the urethra has become so closed, that the patient couw never void a drop of urine by his own efforts, being compelled to rely wholly 01 the catheter ever after. Sir Everard Home has published the history of a case o this kind, which was attended by Mr. Hunter and himself.” (pp. 181, 82.) With regard to the question of introducing the catheter twice or thrice a day, ot after having introduced it, to leave it there, 1 must confess I prefer the former, and tn use of a large silver catheter; occasionally, it is true, there is some difficulty, buh general, so far as my experience has proved, the catheter, after having been pa few times, enters the bladder as readily as a sword into its sheath. On the o‘her I have found that leaving the catheter in for a time, is liable to render the b adde. irritable; and that if at the end of a week or ten days, it be withdrawn, it is almost invariably found encrusted, more or less, with calcareous matter, which often rem withdrawal difficult, and generally causes much pain, if not further mischief, 0J , roughness.—J. F. S.l . , 1812. If in strictures of the urethra, complete retention be proaow" either by the use of heating drinks or other excess, or by the progress o disease itself, the most proper treatment is to introduce a fine "ax bougvy which when its point has got into the opening of the stricture, is held, as is distinctly shown in the vain attempts to draw it back. as it will not move on without using violence, it must not be io_ farther, but allowed to remain, till a violent disposition to ma e ' ^ come on, when it must be withdrawn, and the urine generally flow out itj Some persons immediately introduce a bougie,^ a thin stream, oome persona niiuiDum^.; *■* ~~~ - ^ • • f generally passes further, and may remain till the urging to void t : comes on. At the same time, according to circumstances,may be i 1 * ^ blood-letting, leeches to the anus and perinceum, baths, eoouung; y ^ with opium and the like. After repeated introduction of the ^ bj general a thin elastic catheter may be passed into the bladd