651 BRONCHOCELE, '/0 Above citert. is a tourniquet, and the bleeding is stanched either by ligature, by the i ictual cautery, or by pressure and styptics. Where the state of the tongue permits, it is best, according to Percy (a), to >ut out, by two strokes of the knife, a A shaped piece, with its point backwards, and ifter stanching the bleeding to bring the wound together with the interrupted suture. i If, after the operation, the lower incisive teeth project considerably, attempts must l )e made, by continued pressure, to put them back; and if this should be unsuc- [i '.essful, they must be drawn. If the lower lip continue everted and much outspread, a io that the spittle cannot be retained, a triangular piece must be cut out as in the 3 iperation for cancer of the lip, and the wound healed by the twisted suture (Mirault.) ■ The application of a ligature for the removal of part of the tongue, in which the ligature jt s at once tied round it, or for the purpose of hastening its cutting through, a double f hread is passed with a needle into the tongue, and the ends tied on each side, and i! gradually tightened, till the tied part dies, is attended with greater pain, and is more Ik ediousthan cutting it off with the knife, but is more safe against bleeding. ‘ [Harris (b) of Philadelphia tried to remove a portion of enlarged tongue, by intro- lucing with a needle a double iron wire through the middle of the tongue, and having eparated the two portions of wire, he brought them across the tongue, passed the two nds of each through a corresponding double canula on each side, and then twisted hem; the circulation ceased, but only for two hours. He then passed a strong silk igature, and fastened it in the same way; but in forty-eight hours the circulation nad returned. He therefore amputated the tongue with a catlin, through the track ade by the ligature; the two principal arteries were tied at once, and other three, rhich had been allowed to bleed, to diminish the irritation caused by the previous liga- r .ares, were taken up afterwards. The wound was dressed with dry lint, and the patient ■ ecovered perfectly, with the exception of a slight lisp in her speech. Harris, therefore, trongly recommends amputation, in preference to the ligature.] 2163. The protrusion of the tongue dependent on paralysis of its luscles, requires, besides the constant retraction of the tongue, blisters iehind the ears, and on the neck, the application of irritants, of electri- f ity, galvanism, and the like. TI.-OF BTtONCHOCELE. (Bronchocele, Struma, Lat.; Krojtf, Germ.; Goitre, Fr.) Haller, De Strumes ; in Opusc. Pathol., p. 16. White, Thomas, A Treatise on Struma or Scrofula. London, 1784. 8vo. ,f.i, Ackermans, J. F,, Ueber die Cretinen eine besondere Meuschenabart in den Alnen. I Brotha, 1790. 1 i Fodere, Traitc du Goitre et du Cretinisme, &c. Paris, an vm. 8vo. •f Wichmann’s Ideen zur Diagnostik, vol. i. p. 99. pi Gautieri, Tyroliensium, Corynthiorum Styriprumque Struma. Vienna;, 1794. i Wenzel, J. and K., Ueber den Cretinismus. Wien, 1800. ■ ^>'SSert' de Glandula Thyreoidea tarn sana, quam morbosa, eademque im- ■ nmis Strumosa. Wirceb., 1810. 1.^™’ Ui8bi3r EAenntniss> Natur und Heilung des Kropfes; in Horn’s | V0N Walther, P., Neue Heilart des Kropfes, u. s. w. Sulzbach, 1817. 'iw,’ 18UL.AN8vobSerVati°nS °n thG SUrglCal Anatomy of the Head a»d Neck. ff sXUHUBACI1’ Der KroPf nach seiner Ursache, Verhutung und Heilung. Wien, >: trumT^T,3’ ^ractatas de Glandula Thyreoidea tarn sana, quam morbosa, imprimis •f iruma, ejusque causis et medela. Lipsiac, 1822. P) American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. vii. p. 1. ISJO. de