216 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM mustard poultice having been applied, and a cordial regimen directed by an empiric to promote suppuration, he had a very severe attack of fever, which, however, by proper treatment was relieved. No operation was proposed for fear of mortification and fatal haemorrhage. “ We now examined the other leg,” says Ford, “but found no traces left of the swelling I had formerly seen.” Six weeks after he died with ganging* of the right thigh, without haemorrhage. On examination of the left ham, “ externally there was no mark left of the tumour ; but upon cutting down to the vessel, we found the popliteal artery enlarged to the size of a small hazel nut. On opening the artery both above and below this tumour, and eudeavouring to pass a director and a probe, it was found to be quite impervious to the instruments, although some force was used: and upon further examination, it was found plugged up by a substance of a hard and firm consistence.” (p. 148.) The last case was a femoral aneurysm, seen by Ford in September, 1785, when it “was about the size of a middle-sized China orange, and obviously increasing. The situation of it was so high up as to admit of no hope ol preserving his life by removing the limb, or by tying up the artery. It was, therefore r only recommended to him to lie in bed, to keep his bowels open by gentle laxatives, and to live upon a very spare diet.” (p. 149.) Among the professional people who saw this, man, and by whose concurrence compression at the groin was made, but could not bt persevered in on account of the severity of the pain, Hunter is mentioned; but this case could not have encouraged or induced him to perform his new operation, because “ for four months (from September) those symptoms continued to prevail which usually precede a fatal termination,” and it was only “ at the end of six months that the mat began to think the pulsation was not so strong in the swelling, and that it had ceased ti increase. * * * In the month of March, (three months after Hunter had operated oi his patient,) the circumference of the tumour was much lessened, and the pain hat ceased; the tension was also diminished, the inflammation of the skin had given way and was now become scabious, putting on a mottled look, and appearing in some part brown, and in others of an orange colour, (pp. 150, 51.) For two months afterward: the tumour continued to lessen. * * * He was sent into the country, where he soot recovered his strength and the use of his limbs so much, that in three months he war able to walk several miles with a stick.” After the lapse of two years, he was folly recovered; but “ the thigh was two inches and a half in circumference larger than the other, and there was a hard incompressible tumour where the aneurism was, but whicl gave him no uneasiness.” (pp. 151, 52.) From this account, it is quite clear that the second is the only case which could at all have attracted the attention of such a mine as that of Hunter, and lead to the proposal of his operation; but neither of the threi seemed to have impressed Ford beyond the importance of quiet, and its adequacy t< effect the natural cure of the disease; and from his review of these, as well as of th< cases recited by Guattani, he infers—“ 1st. That nature is capable of effecting tin cure of many aneurisms solely by her own efforts. 2nd. That these efforts have beer successful even when counteracted by improper treatment, as in the (second) case of tb popliteal aneurism (no mention, however, is made of such improper treatment in tb recital of the case. j. f. s.) ; but that a quiet position of the limb, with an antipklogisti regimen, contributes to the cure. 3rd. That the cure by nature is a permanent one 4th. That the inert mass left behind is not likely to produce any mischief. 51k. Tha the unsuccessful event of the operation for the popliteal aneurism, does not principal!’ depend on any particular hazard in consequence of an obstructed circulation in tb ham, but upon other causes.” (p. 155.) The first notice of John Hunter’s improvement in the operation for aneurysm, wa given by Everard Home in the year 1786 (a), and in that subsequent, the uissectio of the case. He also published another paper (6), giving the history of all the case on which Hunter operated, together with some by other Surgeons. In the first pape Home introduces the case with the following remarks :— “ The common method of operating in cases of popliteal aneurism having, in many it stances, proved unsuccessful, the operation itself has been condemned by some of ou most eminent Surgeons. If we consider the eases in which it has been performed, an where the patients have died, we shall probably find that in all of them the artery ha been diseased at the part enclosed by the ligature, and had either sloughed off, or ha been cut through where it was tied, so that the sides of the artery, though broopa together, had not remained a sufficient length of time in that situation to unite by tb forming (he Operation for the Core of tin' Aneurism, containing all the cases on ' ' had then operated ; in Transactions of the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Know! I together, («) An Account of Mr. Hunter’s Method of performing the Operation for the Cure of the Pop- liteal Aneurism ; in London Medical Journal, vol. vii. 1786, vol. viii. 1787. (6) An Account of Mr. Hunter’s Method of per- aprovement vol. i. 1(93, mmm