592 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; length.” Whether this restriction of the length of the cutting edge originated with hi or with Benjamin Bell I cannot positively state, as the copy of Elbe’s Lectures 1 ha is without date : but I should be inclined to think it did, or it is probable he would ha mentioned the in other respects variation of shape which Bell’s gorget has. In tl latter instrument, the shaft is much narrowed, and deep to within an inch of the l>ea at which part it suddenly sweeps out on the right side like a lip, and thence cuts witl sharp rounded edge to the beak. A very slight inspection of either of these gorgets will show, that they cannot divi the side or thicker part of the prostate gland, but that they must cut through its upp part, making, as Scarpa observes, “ an opening, of all others in the perinaum the in- confined, and presenting the greatest impediment to the passage of the stone from t bladder.” (p. 13.) To remedy this objection, the elder Cline made a most importa change in the form of the gorget. Instead of the beak being, as previously, in, or near in the middle of the end of the instrument, which was rounded, he placed the beak on t, left side, lengthening that side a third beyond the right side, by a flat horizontal pla beyond the concavity of the gorget. In this way a straight diagonal edge was forme from the short right to the long left side of the instrument; this diagonal was made cutting edge, and at its extremity projected the beak about a quarter of an inch, fit tened on the sides, and reaching a little above and a little below the cutting edge. Tl extent of the wound made by this instrument depended upon the width of the shaft the gorget, which was equally wide and moderately deep, from the hind part of tl cutting edge up to the handle. The width of the shaft varied from half an inch to i inch in different sized gorgets; for children, the former was usually employed; in aduli generally one of three-quarters wide, and when the prostate was large, that of an inc Such width was found by experience sufficiently ample for the division of the prostat but not so as to cut into the cellular tissue surrounding that gland. With this instr- ment I witnessed my highly valued master, the younger Cline, operate twenty-si times with the loss of three cases, one of which an elderly man, sunk within a few horn without any assignable or discoverable cause beyond the shock of the operation, ai another, whose stone was triple phosphate, died a few days after, and was found to hai the bladder, now in the Museum at St. Thomas's, much thickened, and its whole interii beset with fungosities. With the same instrument my friend Green cut about forty (f cases successively, without losing a case. Sufficient proof, it must be admitted, that tl cutting gorget is not the dangerous instrument, either as to its immediate or deferrt results^ which it has been so much the fashion to describe it. , Scarpa objected to Hawkins’s gorget, on the grounds already mentioned; ai thought that the alterations of it by Bell, Desault and Cline, rendered it “ an instP ment, of all others, least adapted to the performance of the lateral operation” (p. 14 and therefore made an alteration of his own, which diminishing the general width < the instrument, still kept the two-thirds of the edge nearest the point cutting, as i Hawkins’s instrument, but widening the middle third to the extent of three lines, nra somewhat elliptical form. His instrument has not, however, found many admirers i this country. , . Astley Cooper at first used a gorget with a central beak, “ and cutting upon ^ edges, but he thought it occasioned too much bleeding, and divided more than was «W lutely necessary for the removal of the stone.” He therefore gave it up, and opera sometimes with Cline’s gorget, and sometimes with his own knife; but I think ISW him more frequently use the former in his hospital practice.—J. f. s. The directions given by Chelius for the use of the cutting gorget are notsatis factory, for more is requisite than to introduce its beak into the stall, and push it o ward. Such, however, is the too common method of using the instrument, and hen arises the difficulty and danger with which, in the hands of inattentive persons, it is Desa- lt will be convenient here first to mention the directions given by Astley Coop for opening the membranous part of the urethra, which are those commonly adopti the operation with the cutting gorget. “The scrotum being elevated, the incision begun opposite the under part of the arch of the pubes, and is continued on the lei • of the raphe, along the perinaum, as far as midway between the tuberosity o ischium and the anus. The first incision should divide the skin. &c., and expo. accelerator urinm; the second should be carried between the left crus penis sna 1 . \ ( the latter being pressed towards the right side by the forefinger of the Surgeon hand. A part of the accelerator urinee is divided, and the transrersus /imna* , j be freely cut, as it forms a great impediment to the extraction of the stone, n un'11' The next incision should be made into the groove of the staff, by cutting into . branous portion of the urethra; for this purpose the knife must be directed up (a) Lancet, 18-7, 28, vol. i. p. 6!.