THE BLADDER. 433 U vith the fingers of the left hand, and draws the stilette out with the ight. The urine now escapes by the tube, and being assisted by pres- u ure on the belly, is gradually discharged. In order to prevent the j harp edge of the instrument injuring or irritating the walls of the (ladder as it contracts, another silver tube with a blunt end is to be introduced through it, through the side openings of which the urine can : scape ; its other end is furnished with a stay (aj. For fixing the inner jj nbe, a cleft compress is to be so applied, that the tube may lie in its left. The vertical part of a T bandage is to be crossed before and h ehind the tube and fastened to the girdle part. The outer tube must be d xed by bandages, drawn through the openings in its outer end, to the [- irdle-piece of a T bandage. To prevent the inner tube drawing back, m ipes must be introduced through its rings, and attached to the openings f the outer tube. The direction to thrust in the trocar an inch to an inch and a half above the pubic b' 'mphysis rests on the notion that the bladder, in its ascent above the symphysis, is w ‘parated from the hind wall of the belly. However, in puncturing high, the danger ;c f wounding the peritonaum is greater, and the bladder may more easily slip away, J hen it contracts, after the urine has been voided. In very stout persons, if the’ ■ladder be not very full, it may be proper to make a previous cut of an inch and a ilf long through the coverings in the same place above the pubic symphysis, in the 4 hite line, till the bladder can be distinctly felt with the finger. * The curve of the trocar should be a segment of a circle of eight inches diameter 'r Jesault) ; its length must vary according to the bulk of the body, but should not be 8; 5S than five inches. i It is objectionable to introduce a second tube, with a rounded end, or a flexible S' •t‘leter, through the first, and to withdraw it, as the urine will escape by the side of ‘L e smaller tube. ■S 1823. After the operation, the urine must be discharged by the tube as ii ten as is necessary. If inflammatory symptoms arise or continue, corre- u 'onding remedies must be employed. Towards the seventh day, the tubes § ust be removed to be cleaned. The inner tube must be first withdrawn, » id then a curved steel cylinder having been introduced into the bladder’ d rough the canula of the trocar, the canula must be drawn over it, and’ t ter having been cleansed, must be returned upon it. I During the after-treatment, attempts must be made in every possible iy to restore the natural passage for the urine. When this can be | ected, and a flexible catheter have been introduced into the bladder the I la ^ withdrawn; and then, whilst the surrounding coverings’are i ! a Jack with one hand, the opening is to be covered with sticking plaster, it it will not close, must be frequently touched with lunar caustic. ! bll bw J^ih tlUblSC<7e 'Lalways necessary for a long while, because the union of a theblnd surface of the abdominal muscles is frequently not suffi- hesL vvn? a considerable time. A previous cut through the covering prevents this ist be thrust d^recfivTh’ the recPemneof thenatural passage is impossible, the trocar •charged £ fren LSr0^g n coverings, the tubes safely fastened, and the urine ;hth day and ti l ! / lhe tUbe’ whicb raust not be changed before the ionb£en^thfbTadTerZna FTSt T\the patient kept <luiet’ and when y be introduZd SI Z i ?bdominal muscles has taken place, an elastic catheter (luced into thZ wanZcf Zb ndfi S.CHREGER(6) proposes, by means of loops in- o contact with the «lil?lb fitr’ byithe sldes ot the trocar tube, to bring them wci wmi the walls of the belly, and encourage their union. i', ?*"0> GP®rationen. vol. iii. pt. ii. pi. i. The mode of proceedine. thouah with J V«L. II. proceedine thnnai, w th . 0h)ect, lsdirected by Deschamps, Traitehistorique V oceeaing, though with a different et dogmatique de la TaiUe, vol. iv. pi. viii. (4) Above cited, p. 231. 2 F