858 DIVISION OF ORGANIZED PARTS in the right hand with the thumb, middle, and ring-finger, and the fore- - <1 finger laid on its back, or held as a pen, has its point thrust directly.« down to the depth the cut is to be made, then the handle is sunk, and the whole edge is drawn with equal pressure over the parts to be cut through. When the cut has been made, the bistoury is again raised per- pendicular, and cuts through every thing which still remains undivided in the angle. This is the most common kind of cut. 2601. In many cases, where the skin is easily displaced, or an important part beneath may be injured, a fold of skin may be cautiously made, the- one end of which is given to an assistant, the other held by the operator, and the knife drawn across its middle. Sometimes the cut is made from: within outwards ; the bistoury is then thrust in to a certain depth, and its edge, drawn out to or from the operator, enlarges the opening. This kind. of°cut has no necessary cause for its employment. It is most commonly; made when the bistoury is introduced on a director. If the latter instru- ment be passed beneath the skin, or into a canal, it must be held with the left hand and in such direction that its end presses towards the skin, which i an assistant tightens on either side, whilst the straight bistoury is run along j the groove of the director, at an acute angle with it, up to its end, when I the bistoury is raised upright to divide every thing up to its tip. 2602. The convex bistoury is specially employed for making semicircular cuts, and for the removal of tumours, where a larger extent of blade can be made use of than with the straight-edged bistoury. The button-ended, bistoury is only used when parts are cut at a depth ; the bistoury may then be introduced on the finger of the left hand alone, or on a director to pre- vent the point doing mischief. 2603. The mode of holding the knife has an important influence on its use ; in this respect, four postures, or positions of the knife may be distin- guished. First. The knife is held like a pen, the handle being taken hold of with the thumb and middle finger near the blade, and the forefinger laid on its back. Herewith the knife can be used with ease, and employed in every direction ; it is specially suitable where small cuts are to be ma e with great care. Second. The knife is held with the thumb on one, and the middle and ring finger on the other side of its handle, and the ore- - - - - ■ • i-u: violm-bow, lntra. finger laid on the back of the blade. as in holding a The handle is placed upon the inside of the ball of the thumb, with the thumb on one side, and the middle, ring- and little finger on the otlie , whilst the forefinger is extended upon the back of the blade. our • The knife is grasped with the whole hand, the thumb on one an 1 fingers on the other side of the handle ; this is only applicable to arge. or amputating knives. . hv 2604. Scissors effect the the division of parts, like the bistoury, j drawing and pressure ; but the pressure is greater, and therefore the sci edge is°not generally so fine as that of the knife; neither are the . jth set directly opposite, but lie beside each other, so that ordinarily, a cu w scissors, is not so clean as that with a bistoury; the parts must a so> pressed and squeezed before they are divided. On this account the _ ^ scissors is by many entirely rejected. The objections, however, to of scissors may be done away with by the proper fineness of tl B and by the greater power with which they can be employed. ^ It has been hitherto supposed that the due degree of fineness, like that of a. 1 ■ cannot be given to scissors without impairing their strength. 1, no ■t'l