647 PRODUCTION OF NEW STRUCTURES. g4 reaction of the whole organism, and draw all the tissues without distinc-. lion of their organisation, into the same diseased change; they cannot retain their development unchanged in the highest degree, but according to their nature are destroyed and pass into softening. Hence arises the division into benignant and malignant tumours. 2150. The after-products, which must be considered as new formations, ire either repetitions of natural formations, as the adipose and encysted Hitumours, and the like; or they are formed fx-om substances foreign to the natural composition of organic parts, as, for example, medullary fungus. They are vegetative formations, which simply by their further growth, xompress the neighbouring parts, do not convert tfiem into the same mass, for instance, adipose tumours, cysts, polyps, and the like; they are in- convenient, therefore, only by their size. But others possess the above- described specific characters, consequently have a fatal reaction on the o!whole body, and draw the neighbouring tissues into the same diseased “ ‘change. Diseased growths are subject to the same general laws as are the origin and develop- ent of the natural tissues. According to the results of microscopic observation, two J heories have been put forth on this subject, to wit, the cellular theory and the corpus- mi ar theory. According to the cellular theory, there is every where at first a simple formative VVMiatter, cytoblastema, in which are formed nuclear cells, cytoblasts, and in them cells ohpre produced; or the nuclear cell is formed first, and the cell walls are formed second- c 'xrily around it. In many cells the pathologic tissue is perfected with the complete ■flevelopment of the cell. In general these first-formed (primary) cells undergo still further changes, and from them are produced elementary parts, which exhibit no more xf the original cellular form. It is usually then the cell-walls which pass into the emaining parts of the organism, more rarely do the nuclear cells undergo a still urther development, and still more rarely do organic pathologic tissues arise, the deve- opment of which can never be traced to a cellular forcnation. It is highly probable hat the nature of the subsequently produced tissue does not depend on the nature of the ytoblast, but upon the subsequent accession of external influences. 14 According to the corpuscular theory, the formative corpuscles are produced in the {dblastic matter by clotting together. In the midst of this matter, consisting of granules Kind formless matter, a formative coi’puscle arises, and a nucleus, composed of a homo- noteneous tough matter, which continues increasing, so that at last there remains only a hin peripheric layer, which also becomes changed. In this nucleus a great quantity of Ifoecular corpuscles are formed. The corpuscle then drops in on either side, and the Mmddle protrudes, so that it resembles a knife-like body, and passes into the form of Kuematoids, or ring-shaped bodies, a nucleus with a ring. Of the formative as well of iLamat°^ ^ocl'es’ one Part Hes unconnected with the rest and movable; this is the l|)lood corpuscle; the other part is connected by contiguous linear ranks, by layers of ■fuates and heaps of corpuscles, and forms the tissue (a). II 2151. The tumours produced by those unnatural formations, which are I t0 be considered as repetitions of natural parts, belong to the most 0 mtficult subjects of the healing art; they may be considered in reference !9ao their origin, their further development, or to their manifold differences, » ior the purpose of grounding thereon their classification. In former imes the various swellings of this kind were spoken of under the general f designations, scirrhus, carcinoma, steatoma, and the rest. More careful iiquiry has, however, recently showed remarkable diffei’ences in the nature ■ i . [iioliulbu suusiances wmcn iorm these tumours, and upon I 1 T® 111,as been attempted to class them. I he ^ Abernethy points out five peculiar kinds of tumours, to wit, ^ pancreatic, mammary, pulpy or medullary, tuberculated and carcino- 'ii •*p,’ovc cite;V Haumoaertneb, Lelire von den Gegensiitzen in den Kriiften im leli H] ardt, I8l > P61 c*n Grandma v.ur Physiologic un<l allgem. Pathologic unci Thorapio, p. 32. * oecond Knifinn A num t» . 1 1 lebendea Stutt-