DIVISION OF NERVES IN NEURALGIA. 886 edge of the mastoid process, obliquely behind it, to its extremity. The’ divided occipital artery bled smartly, but was checked by an assistant:! I I pressing on the carotid. He then made a transverse cut below the lobe of’ inner side, then fronT the inner edge of the base of that process and the in. sterno- ut inwards, towards the styloia « mastoideus, from above down-wards, and from without process, where it tears away the cellular tissue covering the nerve, which then appea ing as a white cord above the hinder belly of the m. digastricus majcilla infenoriM, taken hold of with the forceps, lifted up a little and cut through, or a piece ot i of nerves with the taken out. 2677. On comparing the subcutaneous division .. — ordinary mode of proceeding, it cannot be denied, that the comple e division of the nerve in every case is more difficult, and the nerve may even be missed. This, however, can be avoided by careful performance of the operation, founded on correct anatomical knowledge. '1 he syroPj toms are usually slight, as in all subcutaneous operations, and the b the auricle, separating it from the beginning of the first cut to the tem- poral artery, which he avoided, and immediately some trifling auricular branches spouted forth. He then separated the flap in the same way deeply to the hinder edge of the styloid process throughout its whole length, at the same time thrusting the point of the knife deeply upwards and back- wards, and lengthening the cut also behind the mastoid process down to the bone. Herewith the facial nerve was cut in two. He now quickly pushed a hot blunt round cautery iron as thick as a common quill, obliquely from below upwards and inwards, pressed it firmly and for some time on the stylo-mastoid hole, and carried it in different directions for the purpose of cauterizing the occipital artery. The wound, which still continued bleed-i ing, was plugged with lint dipped in white of egg and strewed with gum arabic, covered with a compress, the whole fastened with a cloth around the head, and pressure kept up several hours, by an assistant. 2676. No remarkable symptoms occurred after the operation, and the wound healed in a short time. Wryness of the mouth and tip of the nose, which occurred on the destruction of the nerve, subsided, and the face-ache completely ceased. In a second case, which Klein operated on, the result was the same, and the patient had no inconvenience beyond a slight mark. In both cases, however, according to positive assurances, the result was not permanent. Klein considers the operation entirely free from danger. If the division of the facial nerve be properly managed, the carotid artery and jugular vein cannot be wounded, as the former lies in its canal too far trom the styloid process, and the latter is distant from the place of the cut, and if wounded, can be commanded by pressure (a). According to Langenbeck, the division of this nerve can be performed with great safety in the following manner. The auricle being drawn upwards and forwards, a cut is made from the front edge of the root of the mastoid process, where it is connected with the styloid process, and continued below the auditory passage, on the front edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus, so that its tendinous fibres can be seen. The parotid gland ij now laid bare is carefully separated and turned aside; and the wounded posterior or occipital artery tied. The finger is now passed to the upper part of the wound, and feeling the junction of the bony auditory passage, and the root of the styloid process - as a broad bony surface, is pushed on towards the upper edge of the mastoid process, ■> behind it, but stopping at the hind edge of the styloid process, without reaching its I* K. "A h which has been thereby extravasated is soon absorbed. teen tliereoy cxira.vusa.ieu is suou ausurueu. Bonnet has attempted to contravert the objection, that the dm ^ (a) Fkikkeb, Dissert, de Secundo Trunco Nervi Duri in Prosopalgia, cited. Tubing., 1813.—Klein, above .V>!