856. ELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. First. Faintings and convulsions, which depend either on loss of blood j: on want of blood in the brain from irregularity of the circulation, or fron reflected activity of the spinal marrow, consequent on the severity of the* pain. In all these cases the operation must be suspended, the patien placed in the horizontal posture, and roused by sprinkling the face witl < cold water, by scents, especially liquor of caustic ammonia, or naphtha, ana j.-j according ’to circumstances, reviving remedies, as Hoffman’s spirit o « aether, wine, brandy, and the like, or some laudanum should be given. Second. Sudden death, which may indeed be the result of very severer; pain, or of loss of blood, and especially of the entrance of air into the veins i j This last accident is more frequent, and more especially occurs when argod . .1 n .1 _ 3 ^ 4- ,r»,w-w mnnli rvnllon T- veins^particularly those of the neck and armpit, are much pulled ant I Ji i i . i. ri 1, ^ flion Vioorri ai t lit ^ dragged before being completely cut through. There is then heard at tin moment the vein is cut through, a whizzing as on opening the air-tube -kit- (qluck-qluck gerausch,) and immediately after, shivering, swooning con ;c vulsions and death. The cause of the sudden death is the entrance of th. V air into the right side of the heart, by which its movements are suddenly stopped. The wounded vein must be directly pressed with the finger, ant according to Amussat, the chest and belly quickly and forcibly corupresseuS during expiration, and at every interval of such compression, the tingei.' applied to the opening of the vein, and then the vein tied or twisted < Others have recommended bloodletting by opening the .temporal artery'll sprinkling with cold water, applications of ammonia and camphor to tin nostrils, and pressure on the abdominal aorta and both axillary arteries- as well as drawing out the air which has entered the vein through a pip< with the mouth, or by means of a syringe and flexible catheter (M_ gendie.) In but few instances has the patient been recovered. It mu- not, however, be forgotten that many cases which have been ascribed the entrance of air into the veins, are very problematical, and that dea . must be attributed to other causes. Bichat ascribed death from the entrance of air into the veins, to jte effect upon '^ brain; Nistf.n and Magendie to the extension of the heart; and Piedagnel (. J emAMtssAT (tVattempted to restore several animals destroyed by the into the vlins; as already described. J. Warren (c) relates two cases, in the)fij which, the patient was restored by bleeding from the temporal arte th« brought the patient to himself by the application of ammonia and «mP"“ th( nostrils. Mercier (e), who attributes death from admission of inmave.^ ^ same cause which produces syncope, namely, the deficie PP y , j offered b) recommends, that the small quantity of blood wlneh-.n spite of the flf th( the admitted air to the transmission of the blood from the right to system heart and thence to the body-is, nevertheless transnutted .nto ^ *rt«rol }aoria should be directed towards the brain, and this by compression of the abciomi and of the two axillary arteries. • „ ^„rred after at rBransbv Cooper (/) relates a ease in which this alarming syncope we rr * re. amputation at the shoulder-joint, and whilst he was removing a sm^l gand constanl nnverincr the patient “uttered a continual whining cry, and mamtaine motion* of alternate flexion and extension of the right leg whilst fectly quiet.” This movement continued for about nine days and then * (n) Maoendii, Journal de Physiologie, vol. ix. P'(M Mfcml'de 1‘Acad. Roy. dc Mcdeclne, vol. v. r» S'7 PV7) American Journal of Medical Science. (rf) Scum i pt's Jahrbuclier. No. 9 , p. A1-. 18d- (,.) Revue Midicale, vol. ni. p. -.14. 183'. Amussat, Recherches sur Introduction acc.den- _ • 1039 —CoR' telle de l'Air dans les Ycine!'^^senceof Ah ieue «e i zvir «w»sence oi mack, F. C., Dissertation on .JXJ, ,h, 1SJ7 in the Organs of Cireulation. i*i d< dPm nd VON Wattmann. Sichores di \>nc*n schnell geftl.rliclies Lu(VtnUd‘ m,d ^ ,^4.,. (lessen gerichtMrr.tliclie wi<*Ugk ^ ^ p. 4). lessen Kcricht»ir7.tliclie v*icu“fc xxVii. p. ( f) Med.-Cliir. Transactions. 1814.