THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. 439 si om pneumonia, one from rupture of the uterus, and consequent haemorrhage, on the i, ,veuth day after delivery ; one died from osteomalacia, and one from the immediate fo fects of the operation, only twenty-four hours after its completion.” (p. 129.) Michaelis’s own case is the most remarkable and best authenticated of any that have h >en published. The woman was delivered four times by the Caesarean operation. > he account of the first three is given by Feist (a), and of the fourth by Michaelis ' mself (b). k The woman was born at Wilster, in Holstein, in 1795, and was so ricketty that she •{ as only able to walk a little when in her twelfth year. She became pregnant, and on !i e morning of the 18th June, 1826, all other means of delivery being inefficient, the ftesarean operation was performed by Dr. Zwanck, of Eddelack. The placenta was separated and removed immediately after the child, which appeared to have been li me time dead, had been extracted, the womb contracting strongly; but this was billowed by a severe bleeding, which was stopped by dropping cold water from a sponge, ji: a height of some feet. The edges of the external wound fell so completely together i . i at there was not need of sutures, and sticking plaster was alone applied. Shortly after »■■■tree weeks it had healed ; before a month she left her bed, and two months from the 30 iteration mensturated. On the 21st Jan., 1829, she was again in labour, at the Lying-in i.dospital at Kiel, where the Caesarean operation was performed on her by Wiede- Mann: the child was born alive. The external wound was brought together with iL.ree stitches and sticking plaster, and a small tent left in the lower angle of the .bund. On the 21st Feb. she got up from her bed for some hours, and was very l ell. In the beginning of March the wound was perfectly healed, except a few to ints of skin and a small sinus, which had not healed when she left the house at the Kv jiter end of that month. On the 28th March, 1832, she was in Kiel Lying-in Hospital, :.i: ain subjected to the Caesarean operation, which was performed by Michaelis, and .Lie child born alive. The womb contracted imperfectly on the removal of the after- •orth, and there was then first a slight flow of blood from the womb, which was stopped a few minutes by a stream of water from a sponge. Four sutures were put into the mjin-wound, with a small portion of linen into its lower angle, and sticking plaster i ; :erwards applied with a circular roller. The wound was healed, excepting a very t* iiaM Part of the scar, by the 16th May ; but on the 25th, a small fistulous passage was iscovered running into the womb, which had become firmly adherent to the walls of .'bh belly. On the 10th June the fistula was healed (e).] 1832. The favourable time for this operation is that at which nature .buld, under other circumstances, expel the foetus; when, for instance, mcus, streaked with blood, flows from the generative parts; when the iouth of the womb is wide open, the waters have escaped, the head or i y other part of the child is perceptible, and the labouring woman has offered already actual, painful, quickly following labour-pains, nearly • iproaching convulsions. (Graefe.) [ ‘ Although it is so important,” says Rigby, “ that we should lose no time, still, Mvertheless, it does not appear desirable to operate before labour has commenced, any extent; for, unless the os uteri has undergone a certain degree of dilatation, it 1 . no.t; afford a sufficiently free exit for liquor aninii, blood, lochia, which, by stag- •ing m the uterus, after the operation, would soon become irritating and putrid, in ", r.Ca?e they would be apt to drain through the wound, and create much mischief.” < 155.)] 8fl833. The preparation for the operation consists in emptying the '-turn with clysters, and the bladder with a catheter. The instru- cts required for this operation are a convex-edged and a button- i .e. straight bistoury, a director, bandages, and several needles. The ||snion of the patient should be horizontal, upon her back, with the ’i per part 0f her back somewhat raised, on a narrow table, covered with |fna ress; she should also be covered with a cloth at those parts not hSpiioi . . (a) Neue Zeitsch. 6 U Cited at heart of article. 10 MfpiiAKois, (; Kiel, 183! ’dem”r“v1'ls' I'- M-n., Abliandlunge °m kebiete rter Geburtohiilfe. Geburtskunde, vol. iii. large 8vo.; with eight plates. Extracts from tho same in Neue Zeitsch. fiir Geburtskunde, vol. iii. p. 438. By Feist of Mainz.