760 SECONDARY DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. tumour its growth is most luxuriant, both from the want of pressure, and from th< increased supply of nourishment. This will explain why the circumference of the tumour is the most elevated. The central parts, on the other hand, have not only to encounter the pressure which they sustain from the surrounding parts of the tumour and to suffer the diminished supply of nourishment which this pressure occasions, bus moreover, ulceration having removed the integuments, all supply of nourishment from the surrounding natural structures is neoessarily cut off. The depth and irregularity of the central part of the ulcer is often further promoted by a communication being formed between this part of the ulcer and a eavity commenced and produced on the -• interior of the tumour by the process heretofore described.” (p. 294-302)]. “ True scirrhous tumours,” Hodgkin further remarks, “ appear sometimes to depend on a single primary tumour; at other times, several may be satisfactorily made out. That part of the tumour which appears to have been the common origin of the primary cysts, where there are more than one, or from which the contained pedunculated bodies radiate, when there is only a single primary tumour, is, in general, the most indurated portion, and is, at the same time, the most indistinct in its structure. When examined ■' externally, after the surrounding natural structures have been carefully dissected off, this part of the tumour is found to be the most irregular, has a somewhat corrugated appear-. 1 ance, and suggests the idea of its having been the sort of root by which the adventitious growth was implanted on the natural structures. The radiated appearance so strongly insisted on by most authors who have described scirrhous tumours, and the rationale of which I trust I have shown, is particularly conspicuous when the section passes through, this point. The fluid part of a true scirrhous tumour bears in general a very small; proportion to the rest of the structure, it has a viscous or mucous character, more especially where softening has not taken place ; but where this is going on it assumes the: character of an offensive ichorous discharge, and acrid and highly deleterious qualities- have by some been ascribed to it. The process of softening sometimes commences inter- nally at one point, at other times in several small isolated points; in others, again, the ulce- ration through the integuments is the first part of the process of decay.” (p. 323-25.)] j 2396. The secondary development of cancerous ulceration may occur from venereal, herpetic, scrofulous, and other sores, as well also as from different kinds of growths, condylomata, warts, and polyps, which are not originally carcinomatous, but by irritating treatment and the like, pass into a scirrhous condition. 2397. Cancer does not appear to be primarily developed in all tissues: at least, the muscles of locomotion, the serous membranes, cartilage, and tendon, are not originally attacked by it. The skin, the cellular tissue, thei secerning and lymphatic glands, the mucous membranes; the nerves and ■ bones appear to be the only tissues capable of an original development of cancer. This disease also arises more frequently in some organs than others; it is most commonly seen in the gland of the breast, in the testicle, i on the womb, on the lips, the tongue, the eye, on the penis, the clitoris, and the like. The spreading of the disease to the neighbouring parts appears also proportional to their nature; the cellular tissue and skin covering the tumour are first attacked and destroyed, even before t e tumour adheres to the underlying muscles, as for instance, in cancer of to® breast. The serous membranes only become attacked at. a later peri The bones for a long while withstand the destruction ; however, they are eaten into and at last destroyed, as well, indeed, as the vessels which are attacked latest, though, however, yielding to destruction, as the often occurring bleedings prove. When the disease has been still longer pro- tracted, the lymphatic glands which are in relation to the original sctrrnm* become affected ; sometimes this happens even at the onset, sometimes on y in the latter stage of the disease. ^ Walther (a) has disproved by cases, Scarpa’s assertion, that true scirrhus neve occurs primarily iu a lymphatic gland. (a) Above cited, p. 202. n e a l :fi *- J s i * •i lift tit® - idc rtf 'mii ■id U < 'use Sis nil it, ai i« a .9 : • TiVS M lift ■As 8 •h f q? tVt o«