661 LYMPHATIC BKONCHOCELE. u any quantity, the result would be a deposition of pure iodine upon the mucous mem- brane of the stomach, on account of the affinity which exists between alcohol and water. > Nor would the evil stop here. Iodine has a great affinity for hydrogen ; so that wben- ;ver it comes in contact with other vegetable or animal matter, it decomposes it, taking its hydrogen to form hydriodic acid; the mucous membrane of the stomach would therefore suffer, which dissection after death proves really to take place, by poison- ing with iodine; there being always found, as Orfila has shown, ulceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. On which account, he prefers, even |U> the weakest tincture, an aqueous solution either of the hydriodate of potassa, the I hydriodate of iron, or of iodine rendered more soluble by the presence of a salt, as the ^nitrate of ammonia, the hydriodate of soda, or the hydriodate of potassa.” (p. 65.) But )f these several preparations he gives preference to the ioduret of iron, in the follow- ng form:—R Jerri iodur. 3ss., potass, lujdriod. r)j., aq. destill, i jss. Solve. Cap. zutt. xx. ter die ex aqua ; and for the following reason :—“ That in his goitrous patients ie generally found some catamenial irregularity, more particularly amenorrlicea. Now i be found that when the tincture of cantharides, and of the muriate of iron failed to uduce the natural secretion, the ioduret of iron often succeeded; its use, therefore, is culiarly indicated in bronchocele.” (p. 67.) (2) Still more serious symptoms than those mentioned result from the improper use )f iodine (a). “ The patient becomes affected with a sense of faintness, tremor, and sink- |ng, dimness of vision, palpitation, and other symptoms of a nervous kind. The degree of tremor, Dr. Gairdner informs us, is sometimes so great as to present some resem- ■snlance to chorea, though the limbs can always be kept steady. More violent effects 6 ;han these occur at times ; symptoms apparently proceeding from the direct and acrid i|S|:ffects of iodine on the alimentary canal, and strongly resembling the Indian cholera ; fehiolent and incessant vomiting, strong spasms of the back and legs ; extremely frequent’ : iunall and oppressed pulse, urgent thirst, and excruciating pain of the stomach and Blnowels; the latter being sometimes violently purged, at other times obstinately con- Wined.” (p. 329.) These severe symptoms I have never witnessed, perhaps because I ■J nave been accustomed to use iodide of potass, which the stomach will bear, in doses up ' 'O five grains, and even more, though continued for many weeks. Occasionally, how- ..per, the iodide of potass will cause nausea and loss of appetite, so that its discontinu- # ince for a time will be necessary. I have seen it also several times produce ptyalism n n persons of irritable constitution. On these accounts, it is necessary to watch its i eftffects carefully. The best modes of giving iodide of potass, is, in doses of from three to five grains, W lccording to the age and condition of the patient, twice a-day, either in compound decoc- 9 ion of sarsaparilla, or in compound infusion of gentian, or pennyroyal water with ■T fome warm tincture.—J. F. S.] r j j , ■ -180. Of the very great number of external remedies which have been Ijidvised to be used alone, or at the same time with internal medicines, the ■following may be mentioned as the most effectual and most useful; fre- iquently rubbing: the swelling: with flannel, rubbincr with namnlmraio^ quently rubbing the swelling with flannel, rubbing with camphorated •luniment, with diluted caustic liquor of ammonia, soap liniment with liquor cot ammonia, with ung. digital, purpur., with mercurial ointment and tinc- ure of cantharides, with naphtha, with foetid oil of tartar and opium lightly application of discutient plasters of soap, of mercury mixed with r olatile salts and camphor, cmpl. cicut. ammoniaco c., and the like. As s ie internal use of iodine, even when employed with the greatest care equently produces injurious effects, Coindet(A) advises its external I and freq'ient experience has proved its great influence in I oS;°J e’fi.We a" in other Slandukr swellings. Half a dram of ' OOlCle of DOtftsh IS fn ho marln , i , o -ml Q °f p0t.ash is be made int0 an ointment with half an ounce of , and a piece as big as a nut rubbed into the bronchocele n,| • 1 ~~ ~~o ,.uu me uiunciioceie morning: ■ e ening. I he cure is mostly completed in from four to five weeks ; (b) Notion i* , * i i . (") Diet, of l’ract. Med., vol. 1. fiction*‘ot “r ,1.^"?.,n'8.trati?n d« VIode P'lr bwshtung fiber •. nuiiiiiuouailUU £ u tmiJrkftT * "ppbcalion do ce medicament • i i^ de Tv^ ' ') 8Cr° ,,lc.8 et des quelqnes mala- ers dir- lymplintiquc ; in Hiblioth. Uni- • or,, de Geneve, vol. xvi. p. 326—B.ehleb, Beo- bachtung fiber die aussere Amvelullingdes liydrio* dinsauren Natrum; in von Gha efe und vonWai- thF.it’3 .loiirnal. vol. iii. p 2?'.- Uai p, Observa- tions sor lea Efiets de l’lode contre le Goitre ; irj Bibl. Univers. de Geneve, vol. xvili. p. 304,