TEMPORARY LIGATURE. 222 (3) In the Museum of St Thomas’s Hospital there are two preparations, in which the femoral artery was tied with a broad tape and removed after some hours by the elder Clink (a\ in cases of popliteal aneurysm. In one case, the artery being laid bare, a double tape, about an inch broad, and one piece lying over the other, was passed by means of an instrument behind the artery. The piece of tin which conducted the tape was cut off, and a cork nearly an inch long was laid upon the artery and confined to its situation by means of the upper tape, producing in this way, a sufficient pressure upon the vessel included between the ligature and cork to stop the circulation, and, consequently, the pulsation of the tumour in the liam. The other portion of tape* was left loose. The intention of securing the artery in this way was, to compress the sides of the vessel together, and produce union without ulcera tion. On the ninth day the tapes were removed, and every thing seemed to be going on very favourably when the patient was attacked by a fever, supposed to have been caught from another patient in the same ward, of which he died on the seventeenth day after the operation. On examination of the limb after death, it was found that ulceration had taken place, though the whole extent of the artery included in the tape and sinuses were formed botlApwards and downwards in the course of the thigh to some distance. In the other case similarly treated, the operation was successful, but the patient died three monthih after, of diseased lungs. Both these preparations are in the Museum at St. Ihomass- HCrampton (now Sir Philip), of Dublin, holding (6) that the division of the internal and middle coats is precisely the kind of injury which a diseased artery is least able to bear with impunity ; and that, “ accordingly, secondary haemorrhage, or even aneurism, is not an unfrequent consequence of this operation,” (p. 358,) adopted a modification of CWs use of a temporary ligature. “The femoral artery was laid bare, at the usual place, by an incision not exceeding three inches m length, and a tape one-eighffi. of an inch in breadth, was passed under it by means of an aneurism-needle. The ends of the ligature were passed through the holes in the foot of the presse-artere, and then* crossed through the hole in its stalk. The artery was gently compressed by drawing the two ends8 of the ligature in an opposite direction, until the pulsation had ceasedLi The\bjature was then secured by passing a small peg of wood through the hole in m staik Soon after he had excruciating pain in the calf of his leg, and this contmumg, at the end of two hours Crabipton “ determined to relay the ligature, as well to ascer-r t • bow far the pain was excited by its pressure, as to observe what progress had been made ?n the mocess of coagulation; the peg was withdrawn from the hole m the stalk.: of the instrument, and the ligature was thus left at liberty to yield, to any impulse tlub it SSe from the artery. I watched for five minutes, with my hand upon the tumour, and as the pulsation did not recur, the peg was r^“d; ^ “ toth7Jreature ligature at the degree of tension it now possessed. on day for nearly an hour, but the pulsation returned no more. (p. 369 ) 1 he pat vprpd Crampton’s instrument consists of a short cylinder, ha c , a -S-S hole near the top of the cylinder, where they are crossed and tied, a little s down upon this tie, by which the ligature can be tightened. . cheath Lisfranc (c) saysIf an artery be of a yellow co our, it is diseased; its sheam must not then be opened, but must be tied with the vessel; he has often tren follow this excellent practice with success, (p. &£•) . . , forceps TBHe prefers opening the sheath with his nail, rather than by raising it with fore P and cutting it with a knife, or opening it with a director. (P- -8-_ ^tween them (4) The8 application of two ligatures, and the division ofthe arterj' t tt* j; hq recommended by Abernethy, is now very rarely adopted, and a sii g P a(jvis certainly preferable; yet I cannot think with Abernethy, that his opera Thouph ns safest, when the experience of the Surgeon who operates is not la g • w