TYING THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 250 enveloped. At the same time also the outer edge of the m. obliquus capitis inferior is seen at the inner edge of the second wound, and is to be drawn somewhat inwards. Two branches of the occipital artery, also enclosed in cellular tissue, pass across the wound. The cellular tissue I is now to be divided with the handle of the knife, and the arterial branches drawn upwards or downwards. Two branches of the second cervical i nerve also now show themselves, and are to be drawn up or down out of : their place ; after which the isolation of the artery is no longer prevented. I This done the needle is to be carried round the artery from without inwards, in order more certainly to avoid the internal carotid artery, which lies very near the vertebral, and is only separated from it by cellular membrane. . . ,, _ . If the vertebral artery be tied between the atlas and occiput, the cut u should be made, as in the former case ; but the first is to be begun a quarter I of an inch above the mastoid process, by which the second cut, which, in like manner, passes from the upper fourth of the length of the former i backwards and obliquely downwards, runs somewhat more upwards. After -1 cutting through the skin, fascia, and m. splenius, the occipital artery^ appears in the upper angle of the first wound, as also at the front edge on4 the upper fourth, the hind edge of the m. obliquus cajntis superiori but in the whole surface of the wound a layer of aponeurosis and under it cellular tissue, loaded with fat, the former of which mus be carefully divided. The edges of the wound are now to be held asunder with blunt hooks by an assistant, and then a triangle appears, formed by the m. rectus capitis posterior, and m. obliquus capitis superior and fi!1Jd with fat and cellular tissue, which covers the artery. This is then o be* carefully divided, turned back, and, if in large quantity, should be partially removed, upon which the artery appears below the m. oblique lapitis1 superior, and runs backwards nearly an inch before it perforates the occipito-atlantal ligament. The vessel is then to be isokjtedjdOj ligature! by the aid of a ligature-needle, passed obliquely from below si Se baLe^Co\S exceeding1 two "Inches0!".! length? “tI tie operator continue peMtodogm this direction till he reach the inner edge of the m. scalenus anticus, and thus artoy is easilv struck upon, without injuring one twig of a nerve (a). . . woui;(j Mob us (b) mentions a case of aneurysm of the vertebral artery, originati g which was cured by compression, the application of me, and so on. hasreCently [An example of this very rare disease (aneurysm of the vertebral artery)a J the Northern Infirmarv at Liverpool; the carotid artery co ild be d.stmcnj occurred in the Northern Infirmary at Liverpool; ^ — —v. SOIUe traced over the pulsating swelling, of the actual nature of which here doubts as to what kind of aneurysm it was, or whether only a pulsa g h wa" ScWed to tie the common carotid artery. The tumour the operation, and in about a fortnight the patient died by bursting of the aueur) trachea. On examination, an aneurysm of the vertebral artery, between the transve processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra; was found.—J. F. S-J d nger in P TInon the importance of tying the vertebral arteries, and its greater danger mnarison with tying the carotid arteries in animals, see Asti.fa Loopf.k ( ^ ]m TThe arteries of the brain sometimes become affected with aneurysm. Iu ‘ i )thc of the Royal College of Surgeons, there is an example of a small conical aneurysm .at anterior cerebral .rtery.-J.F. SJ ^ "lissome ExperimenU and Observation* on in Guv. Hospital Reports, vol.