CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 576 after, to cut into the bladder within the bounds of this adhesion (Vebniebeb); or L operate at two intervals, first to cut through the parts to the bladder, then three or ft J .. A ,. _ i+l-w, 1,1 n /l/l ot* iirlujn fllO Cll ITOll 1 tl O' I I 1 1 II T* tlSKtlf llfiU llfit'ttUUi fl operate at two liuei vuib, mat cut imuugu wc u» u days after to open the bladder, when the surrounding cellular tissue has become ft and impenetrable to the urine (Vidal de Cassis.) Here, also, may be mentioned I • n .1 .1 „ C Kvr rii+imn (Gat t V7a I.' VI (ivui L'D i 1 n rdfoeot.nn ana lmpeueu aoie to uic m me ^ » xu^x. ur, ^ .mucu » « union of the wound of the bladder by suture, (Solingen, Geuler,) in reference b which Pinel Grandechamp instituted experiments on animals (a), from whence \! .1 concludes that the danger of the high operation may he diminished. 2070. For some little time after the operation, the dressings must | changed twice or thrice a day, during which time all the urine escape.<• through the wound in the belly, and passes between the pieces of t dressing After three or four days, the strips of linen may be taken awa- as then0 the swelling of the edges of the wound and of the cellular tiss> between the bladder and walls of the belly is so great that the urine ca m not infiltrate. The water now begins to flow gradually through t urethra, in proportion as the passage through the wound narrows, and s last it closes with simple treatment. Dupuytren (b) considers all precautionary rules to keep the urine entirely aw . from the wound above the pubic symphysis as fruitless, the approximation of the edg < of the wound by the stitch openings through the perinecum and rectum, and the introdi- ft tion of the catheter through either of them, or through the urethra, of no use, a sometimes even dangerous, as they may produce infiltration of urine, and mflammati. a of the peritonaeum, and of the cellular tissue in the cavity of the pelvis. 2071. The untoward circumstances which may arise during and aft ] this operation are,—great difficulty in its performance, on account of tl bladder becoming much contracted ; wounding the peritonaeum; protrui sion of the intestines from the opening, and flow of urine into the cavi* i of the belly ; violent inflammation of the peritonaeum ; infiltration of tl urine into the cellular tissue, abscess, and gangrene. When the contract! fj bladder is very deep, the operation must be performed with the greate •• care; and it must be specially remembered that the front wall of tl Jg bladder must be cut into, not above the pubic symphysis, but belm i it If the peritonaeum be wounded, the opening must be at once dost .1 with a sponge. This is the most serious accident; but not always dw - there occur fatal extravasation of urine into the cavity of the bell (Douglas, Frere Come, Soubekbielle.) Zang (c), in cases of unui i of the peritonaeum, recommends for completely drawing off the unn< the puncture of the bladder through the rectum, and, in women, by tl ;< vagina ; a proceeding which DESciiAMrs(</)has generally practised, am > C1 the more safe performance of the puncture, recommends a hollow cyUntu witli a handle, which is brought through the wound in the bladder, ant bv the trocar, introduced into the rectum, the hind wall of the bladder ^ thrust into the cylinder, and may be there perforated. The inflammation to be feared after the high operation for the stone must be prevented an. got rid of by suitable antiphlogistic treatment, as in the lateral operatioi| Infiltrations of urine and abscess require the use of the knife, an sucj posture as will prevent the collection of urine and of pus. In this respeoj it is most important that the operation should be performed with ■ greatest possible care and dexterity, so that the cellular connexions ot m bladder be not very much torn, nor separated to a great distance. Pallucci practises thrusting a trocar from the bladder outwards, near its ’f j that there ma? be an opening in the perinmum by the side of the anus, into winch canula should be inserted for the discharge of the urine. (a) In Oi.i.iviek, above cited, p. 74. (to t^eons orate* de Clinique Chirnrgicale, te) Abo-cited p.-.4, g. M^ vol. ii. P- 3bl. 1 ‘