(ESOPHAGUS. 319 1595. The callous narrowing of the oesophagus mostly consists of a Ircular thickening of the walls of the tube, at a particular spot ; it may, i.wever, be variously spread, often only one or other wall of the oeso- V mgus is affected to a different extent. It is generally, from the first, ;r companied with great inconvenience ; the food, at the moment of swal- wino% causes violent pain, mostly between the shoulder-blades; it is ! rowm up, and commonly also with it a morbidly large quantity of tough ,ucus, secreted from the almost entirely closed breathing passages. The i.tient assists himself by throwing himself back, stretching out his neck, d similar movements, in order to carry the food over the seat of narrow- d t ; oftentimes the food passes on with a noise and cessation of pain ; ij terwards every portion of food is returned, with a gurgling noise and >( olent cough. This disease also for a time yields, and usually makes slow ^ o°ress; I have, however, seen in one case the patient starved to death i three months, and on examination a circular, regularly callous thicken- er of the walls of the oesophagus was found at its upper part, and i adually lost itself both above and below. ■ 1596. In scirrhous hardening of the walls of the oesophagus, which r herwise in its symptoms has great resemblance to the callous condition, , d is generally situated at the lower part of the oesophagus, and even at •' e cardia, the difficulty in swallowing usually increases slowly, and the tient has also a dull, weighty, dragging, and often very painful sensa- m at the part, especially opposite the spine, which diminishes on lying >wn. 1597. The symptoms and accidents in this stricture of the oesophagus, e especially different in reference to its seat and extent, and particularly i. regards the condition of the oesophagus above the stricture; as when, £ is frequently the case, it is considerably expanded, the food that is 'allowed, collects in great quantity, and is only afterwards thrown up. The expansion of the walls of the oesophagus is either of the whole of the canal, oi- ly; partial, and depends on the protrusion of the internal coat between the separated ' I res of the muscular coat, so that a sac of various size is formed (Diverticulum, Hernia sophagi, (Esophagus succenturiatus, &c.) This partial expansion occurs also fre- ently without any narrowing of the oesophagus; at least, I have never observed it th, but twice without stricture. It depends on the excessive expansion or tearing of >ne muscular fibres in the swallowing, and sticking of large, hard pieces of food, and 1 like. The food gets into this sac, expands it still more, and sooner or later, without y straining, is thrown up into the mouth. Whilst eating, the patient, when this sac is 111 and at the upper part of the oesophagus, must, as I have witnessed, empty it, from ■he to time, by pressure with the fingers, so that he may be able to swallow better. 1598. In the scirrhous and callous, cartilaginous and bony, narrowing of e oesophagus, which occurs, specially after the abuse of spirituous liquors, om the habit of eating and drinking very hot things, from the suppression the ordinary discharges, from the venereal disease and alike, generally 2 advanced age, and in men, ulceration comes on at the later period, by nch part of the stricture is destroyed, and symptoms of hectic con- niption ensue. When these strictures are of long continuance, the ulce- ion always begins on the side next the stomach, which must be attributed ueed to the frequent efforts to vomit, by which the walls of the oesophagus ' the ?£ricture are deprived of their natural activity and natural ii C*Ur°' lhe ulce™tion is usually seated on the hind wall of the rj; ayus next tlie spine, and not unfrequently attacks the bones ; it may, ever, destroy the trout wall and the corresponding part of the trachea