STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 359 a firm round point. Bougies are also made by dipping cotton threads in melted 4 ax till they have acquired sufficient size, after which they are rolled between marble I ,‘tes By the addition of various medicaments to the substance of which bougies are I i gj were made the bougies midicamenteuses formerly in use. The elastic bougies re to be preferred, as besides their flexibility they are also tolerably firm, and not so i usily dissolved by the urine. If hollow, an iron stilette may be introduced into them, ;j id their strength thereby be much increased. Wax bougies seem preferable to elastic ones in all cases where there is difficulty in fesnetrating °the stricture, as, on account of their great flexibility, the urethra is not i isily injured. In very narrow strictures, the introduction of silk-worm gut bougies as been recommended, which enlarge about half their size, and by their softness yield I] , the directions of the canal. The objection made to them, that by their irregular - ad hard point, they injure the canal of the urethra, and even pierce through it, may a: e diminished by their proper preparation, and careful introduction (a). If the wax bougie, when it has penetrated the stricture, be a little while withdrawn, * a impression upon it from the stricture is observed, by which the condition and , ctent can be determined. The same also happens with the silk-worm gut bougie. [In passing wax bougies, Asti.ey Cooper (b) directed “ always to warm them by ‘ ie fire, for the purpose of rendering them soft; when, if they are introduced into the 8 rethra and pass through the stricture, you will ascertain the distance at which it is 1 1 tuated from the orifice, and the form and size of the stricture will be modelled on the ougie. You then pass another bougie a little longer than the first, and directly that is renthdrawn, another still larger. On the following day you again introduce two bougies, g tat is, if there should be no existing inflammation to prevent it; the first bougie you & ten use is to be of the same size as the one with which you concluded on the previous f: ly; after this has been withdrawn, you again pass another, a size larger than the first, !■ tus using on every occasion two bougies, always beginning with one of the same size ; that with which you had concluded on each preceding time. By adopting this plan, :•:< rictures may be cured in a quarter of the time that they usually are, and the stric- ired part of the urethra speedily made to regain its natural size. * * * Never attempt > pass a bougie in its straight state, for if you do, it will be obstructed in its passage, ■ hether there be stricture or not. You invariably give it, before its introduction, the 1 irve of the catheter.” (p. 223.) ; Abernethy (c) says:—“ You should pass a bougie very gently, and withdraw it im- 1 lediately after the first application, and if no reaction ensue, you will find that the . art will bear twice as much next time; but if you pass it roughly, the contrary will appen, and you will increase the disorder. You should never repeat the passing a . augie till the effect of the first stimulation is completely gone off. In many cases there 3 • no necessity for introducing them more than once a week.” u i Brodie justly remarks:—“Success in the cure of this disease will depend on your ttending to this important rule. Whether you use a bougie, or a sound, or a catheter, •t the instrument be held lightly, and, as it were, loosely in your hand; it will then in nne measure find its own way in that direction in which there is the least resistance; hereas, if you grasp it with force, the point can pass only where you direct it, and it is ist as likely to take a wrong course as a right one. A stricture will invariably resent » >ngh usage; it will yield to patience and gentle treatment.’’ (p. 68.) In the treatment of stricture of the urethra, there is difference of opinion as to the I latenal of which the bougie or sound should be made, whether wax, elastic gum, cat- ut, or metal is to be preferred; and whether such instrument should be conical or • ylmdncal. 1CooPER saJ's“ The bougie I use is madeof silver ; it is of the form of the • meter, but at the point, and running back for some distance towards the handle, it is leal. The way 1 use it is this, I first pass down in the manner above described, a x boupe, for the purpose of ascertaining the form, size, and distance of the stricture. oin^TT1 a knowledge of these, I then introduce my conical silver bougie, the ilatati Whl j bav!nS entered the stricture, the further it passes the greater is the mnd °n» pr, cec*’ *? consequence of the form of the instrument. This bougie I have ot it t , , y serv‘cea,)le> aD(lis the best with which I am acquainted. When it is An na. * USe a common silver catheter instead.” (pp. 223, 24.) asmf!d'lETfH-Y observes “ Metallic instruments are good in some cases ; if there be a ion • CtUre at.five inches, and another at six, and one beyond it, when a com- („) K pe “Passed it may get by the first stricture, but when it reaches the second it eil“ng;InRn«V«»^rr’ihren'?trictur ihre W lectures; in Lancet, 1833, 4, vol. ii. Third s. m must s Magazin, vol. xv. p. 1. Edition. (e) MS. Lectures on Surgery.