467 CLEFT SPINE; TREATMENT. ascribed to the influence of the irregular development of the corresponding parts r of the nervous system, than to a peculiar tardiness in the process of ossification. [Hewett (a) observes, in regard to spina bifida:—“ The connexion which generally & exists between the chord or the nerves and the walls of the sac, is a point of the utmost si: importance. Some cases are related by various authors, in which neither the chord nor r$t the nerves had any connexion with the sac; these parts followed their usual course down ijj the spinal canal; but in by far the greater number of cases that have been placed upon ; -ecord, the nerves presented some kind of connexion with the sac. Of twenty prepara- 1* tions of spina bifida, occupying the lumbo-sacral region, which I have examined in 3> various collections, I have found but one in which the nerves were not connected with • he sac.” (p. 461.)] 1888. As to the treatment of these two complaints, it has been advised \i- 0 employ mercury internally and externally, repeated purgations, long- ■fcontinued blisters, issues, setons, and a due pressure of the whole skull vith bandages or sticking plaster (b). The unsuccessful result, after rn 1 rawing off the water by puncture, or after spontaneous bursting, had ru liscouraged this practice till more recent observations had shown, that joy small stabs with a needle or a fine trocar, the fluid might be repeatedly A imptied. In a few cases only, however, was a cure thereby produced, i s with the often repeated puncture and simultaneous use of moderate mressure, at last fatal inflammation ensued. Besides, in the critical ex- tj, mination of these cases, it is proper to bear in mind that the operation , i 5 only performed when the distension of the skull is very considerable ?An earlier employment of the puncture, by which the fluid can be radnally emptied, and the head at the same time properly compressed a nth a bandage, may perhaps allow the hope of a favourable result • p ut especially when the water in the head has not been congenital (1)’ if he place for the puncture may be chosen at any part between the sepa- 1 ated bones where there is no sinus. Asteey Cooper has recommended l Pa^ative treatment, which has had good results, by means of a bandage 1 'hlch completely keeps back the swelling in spina'bifida, and which must : e continued for some time (2). - h[ich th?nnJptMc S C<fE™ .0) to*8 7el7 carefully analyzed and compared the cases in k M?! P °f PU Y'.'lng the brain for chro,lic hydrocephalus has been practised ; mi011 ‘he subject is entitled to serious attention. He says .--“ From p}“?foC tbf 1 C0nrude that lnf,ammatotT irritation of the brain and its membranes t stem t Peratl°n m s°me instances; that the state of these parts and of the rendition fn tvte °ocurre“ce ; and that the encephalic structures are in a very different * infl' “ thlS dl.sease’ both mechanically and vitally, but especially as to proneness ■ ^^iSly'il556^^treVtme^Sas tLnso^ HSR? riod \vT ° bIa'n muSt be Penetl-ated to reach it at an early than ^t a later 0<i- vv hen punctures are resnrtprl tr, * . . A . a tatei riod wifpT t ^ uc peueiraieu to reacli it at an early than at a liter Wen relaxed • fo^we^ho^M^mf^H t0 medical treatment must not be abandoned, or < U as topromotZwt on^and -t0 T6”0™ tbe to effusion as . ; althy per for man e c oft he" ee re h vl'l f a,?ertain of pressure is requisite to the lid over the whl ! , • cereb,al factions, strips of plaster should be applied around An. nSlve H,:, t. P’ ln °.rder t0 prevent the coll:'Pse consequent upon the ojera- H °ne time; that gentlerreSure^houbl T t0 *1 frequen|’ Vor nmch fluid withdrawn n 6 Pressure should be made around the cranium during the dis- with Remarks; in 3/,i S.Gazette, vol. xxxiv. 1811. r.A j ti Bun r, ™C'v°t xxxiv. 1841. is 'ehanicaf^.?'1)”*^’ °n the effect of tafc and cure insert.?" °f thc lu'ml “ a preven- cure ,n certain cases of Hydrocephalus ; in his Select Dissertations, p. 380. London, 1822. ’ in London Med. Repository, vol. xx. p. 314. 1823. (c) Dictionary of Practical Medicine, -Art., Chronic dropsy m the Head, vol. i. Lond., 1844. 8vo. 2 ii 2