THE CESAREAN OPERATION. 438 saved is very few, in comparison with those who have died after i i Cases, however, are mentioned, where the operation has been pei ] formed, two, five, six, and seven times, upon the same person (a). u 1 more favourable result is to be expected, if the patient’s health be good > if she have not suffered from previous disease, fruitless labour-pains, c i artificial attempts at delivery, and if the operation be undertaken at tb i right time. [Michaelis, who has very carefully inquired into the subject, has considc-rab, i doubts of the authenticity of many of the cases of repeated Cffisarean operation on tl. same woman, which have been related by the writers of the seventeenth and eighteent centuries; for, as he observes, “ it must be considered remarkable that no writer, as seems, relates the circumstance at first hand, that is, from the Surgeon himself; for i No. 3, Cthe woman who stated she had been operated on thrice,) No. 7, (the ship captain who declared himself the sixth son of whom his mother had been delhered b i this operation, and that she died in her seventh pregnancy, because the Surgeon who ha i previously operated on her was deceased,) No. 8, (the Minorite, the fifth son of anothe- j in this same way delivered of all her children,) and No. 9, (the woman mentioned b, Count Tressan, who had been delivered by the Caesarean operation seven times,) tb woman, or the sons who related it, are not of sufficient credit. To this must be addec that some of these histories rest alone upon hearsay, or on suspicious witnesses. Thai was it, for instance, with Count Tressan’s case, at a time when, at least in Franc* literary intercourse was very active, that it seems incomprehensible^ how Baude eocque, in the Recueil periodique de la Soc. de Me'd., vol. v. p. 63 to 74, in which h * gives a collection of sixty-six cases, from the year 1752 to 1799, should never at al have thought of this most remarkable case of all; and it is almost beyond belief ufflJ it should remain for Count Tressan to discover such a case.” (p. 5.) “ This mquir} therefore, leads to the single result, that the old cases of often-repeated Cresareai operation must at least remain very doubtful. If, however, we be disposed to give credit one way or other, yet there is little benefit to knowledge from the want of oh precise data, as, on the whole, the case of Adametz alone shows the possibility of ai often repetition of the operation.” (p. 6.), ...... The most satisfactory inquiry into the result of the Csesarean operation is that maou n.r Vivsi',) (h\ who divides the historv into two periods; the former terminating witl Or in a decreasing ratio of 68, 63, and 49 per cent. ^ Where labour had lasted more than seventy-two hours, the mortality was <2 pa From 1750 to 1800 there were 37 successful 80 fatal cases. „ 1801 „ 1832 „ 54 „ 94 „ „ 1833 „ 1839 „ 37 „ 36 „ 128 210 (a) Simon; above cited, p. 636.—I.e Maistre ; in Journ. de MSdec., vol. xliv. 1812.—Sommer; in Russischen Sammlungen fiir Naturwissenschaft 'Kf< c’ped'at the head of the article. I am very sorry that 1 have been unable to lay hand on this future occasion to be more sui