824 TOTAL EXTIRPATION the bleeding was stanched, he filled with lint. The ovaries and round ligaments should be removed together with the womb. Ladd Wolf (a) extirpated a scirrhous prolapsed womb with a fatal result. Recamier (b) successfully removed one by tying it. He also (c), in a case of cancer with prolapse of the womb, removed it, after ascertaining that no bowel was contained in the sac of perituiucum, by means of a needle carrying a double thread, and tied on each side. 2520. The assertion of the impossibility of extirpating the whole womb, has been disproved by a case in which Sauter (c/) performed this operation successfully. He considers this operation, having never seen any cure by partial extirpation, as suitable and practicable, when there is in the vagina, around the neck of the womb, still sufficient space to allow the knife being carried around all the diseased part, and when no general symptoms exist which contraindicate the extirpation. [That a patient can recover after extirpation of the womb, even under most unfavour- able circumstances, is proved by the case related by Rossi (e), in which, after the delivery of both child and placenta, the midwife, on passing her hand into the vagina, felt a swelling, which she mistook for another child. This she pulled with such force, that the tumour, which was the womb, was dragged from its attachments, and then cut it off the vagina with a knife, and removed it entire. Notwithstanding this horrible treatment the woman recovered.] 2521. Sauter lays down the following rules for this operation :—After emptying the bladder and the rectum, the patient is laid across a bed and properly fixed. An assistant passes his hand over the pubes, in such way, that with the flat of it he can press down the womb into the pelvis, whilst with the back, the bowels are kept up and away from the pelvis. The operator introduces the fore and middle fingers of his left hand into the vagina, till they reach the hollow it forms around the neck of the womb; then carries a curved bistoury, with a short blade and long handle, between the fingers, up to this part, cuts through the vagina upon the womb, about two or three lines deep, and carries this cut around the whole neck. A pair of scissors, curved towards their edge, with long handles, are now passed between the two fingers, and a snip made between the bladder and rectum upwards through the peritonaeum, keeping close to the neck of the womb, whilst with the fingers like a hook, the tough, cellular connexions are grasped, directed into the scissors, and with these carefully cut through. When the division is so far made that the two fingers can be passed through the opening into the cavity of the belly, the separation may be made in a like manner between the rectum and womb, with scissors curved towards their blades, and kept close upon the womb. If the fingers can be passed on the hinder surface of the womb through the peritonceum into the cavity of the belly, this hinder connexion may be completely divided through the whole depth of its deeper sinking, »P its connexions on the sides, after the finger like a hook has been passed over the peritonceum, and that has been drawn down, with a concave km e or a pair of scissors curved on their side. The height to be separate' should be about an inch. The further the hind connexion be separaL from below upwards on the sides, the easier and safer can the operation a completed, after separating the connexions on the sides. tiisen Gebarmiitter, ohnc selb«l entst.ndin'’'1 kunsllich bewirkten Vorfall vorgenoni v je gliicklich vollffihrt; mit niiherer diese Operation gemacht wcrdcn kann; in Steindr. Constant, 1822. (n) Archives generates de Mcdecine, vol. x. p. 105. 1820. (6) Revue Medicate. 1825; vol. iv. p. 393. December. (r) Recherches sur le Traitement du Cancer, etc. (d) Die ganzliclie Exstirpation der carcinoma- (r) II Raccoglitorc.