988 EXCISION OF THE to the left branch of the jaw-hone; the part thus described was three times its natural size. The jaw was removed by sawing it through an inch in front of each of its angles. The patient suffered little after the operation; on the twenty-seventh day he was able to drive one of his cabriolets; on the thirtieth some small portions of bone came away; and fifteen days after, his cure was completed. Graefe (a) removed, in the early part of 1821, from a woman aged forty, the front of the lower jaw, which had become involved in cancerous disease, sawing through it on each side; and the patient recovered completely in the course of five weeks. The case in which Astley Cooper (b) operated, was a fungous medullary exostosis on the chin. He cut down through the skin on each side of the tumour, and then sawed through the healthy part of the jaw, cutting off the prominence of the chin, but without meddling with the alveolar processes, so that the arch of the jaw remained perfect. The operation was performed, I believe, in 1818, but certainly not later than in the beginning of the year following, and the woman did well. Although the opera- tion was not of such importance as those just mentioned; yet as it was, so far as I am aware, the first upon the jaw performed in London, I have thought it right to notice it. The preparation is in St. Thomas’s Museum.—J. F. S.] 2844. In removing a portion of the side of the lower jaw without the con- dyle the cut for laying bare the bone must be made in different ways, accord- ing to the size and seat of the bony tumour, sometimes from the corner of the mouth to below the edge of the jaw ; still better is an oblique cut from the corner of the mouth to the place where the bone is to be cut through, or from the corner of the mouth in form of a _J cut; in very large swellings a T cut; when the skin is much diseased, two elliptical cuts from the corner of the mouth ; or if the entire side with the angle or part of the ascending branch is to be removed, then a ] J cut or the like. The flaps are now to be separated close to the bone, held back by the as- sistants, and the soft parts on the inside of the bone carefully detached, the knife being carried close to the bone where it is to be sawn through. After the compress has been introduced, the bone is to be sawn through, first in front, and then the piece, grasped with the left hand, must be pressed downwards and outwards, and with the knife carried close to the bone all the remaining soft parts carefully separated to the extent of the tumour behind ; the compress is then introduced, the bone held in this nosition by an assistant and cut off. The sawn-out bone is now drawn outwards and completely separated from the soft parts forming the bottom of the mouth, the bistoury being kept witli the greatest care close to the bone. After stanching the bleeding, the wound must be brought to- gether at the lip with the twisted, and on the cheek with the interrupted suture and supported with sticking plaster. . Sawing through the bone first in front is most convenient, because the operator can then draw it to him and turn it down. If the soft parts be divided from the whole inside of the bone before it is sawn through at the back part, the sawing is accompamea with greater difficulty than if the soft parts be divided afterwards, especially it tne tumour be of large size. „ , , . _ Since Deadrick and Dupuytren first performed resection of the lower jaw, tne nnpration h;is been very frequently performed and with much success. P Dkad,!>ck (C) of Rogersville, Tennessee, is justly entitled to the merit of having first in 1810, amputated a portion of the jaw of a child of fourteen, who had a tumour occupying the left side of the lower jaw. “ An incision was commenced under the zygomatic process, and continued on the tumour, in the direction of the W to nearlyTn inch beyond the centre of the chin A second incision was begun ' . ’ „,i,iv, .,v -it right angles with the first, and extending a short distance down tti neck. The mteguments were now separated from their connexion with the tumoi , (n) Jahresberichtdescliirurgiscli-augeniiretbclien Institute 7.u Berlin.—(Jbaefk und von W ai.thkr s Journal, vol. iii. p. 256. 1822. (/i) Cooper and Travers’s Surgical Essays, part i. p. 1*9. 1818. ... lsog. (c) Amer. Med. Recorder, vol. vi. p. 516. 1