THE LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE CUTTING GORGET. 593 * that is, its point raised towards the handle of the staff,—j. f. s.,) and not horizontally, ijntherwise the rectum is endangered. The opening made to expose the groove of the •nU.talf should be an inch in length.” (pp. 249, 50.) 1v* The membranous part of the urethra having been opened by the third cut, and well ,|><>pened, by moving the point of the knife up and down so as to have it perfectly bare, fi>he left forefinger-nail should be pressed into it, immediately on the knife being removed, mind there retained. Using the nail as a guide, the beak of the gorget (Cline’s, iff with the single-cutting edge) is entered upon it into the groove, and the finder Bikithdrawn. The Surgeon then moves the beak of the gorget twice or thrice °up relmd down in the groove of the staff, to assure himself that the beak is free, and not jgiii tangled with any cellular tissue, by which, in his further proceeding, it might ijvie jerked out of the groove. The body of the gorget should be held horizontal, gilnd its cutting edge inclined a little downwards, and outwards. The operator now, til nth his left hand, takes the handle of the staff from the assistant, and brings it 1} town till it form an obtuse angle with the perinceum—in short, till the staff, if it i? fere straight throughout and thrust onwards, would pierce through the umbilicus, its direction corresponding to the axis of the pelvis, which Green considers a most im- i-'ortaut part of the operation, as it ensures the proper course of the gorget. At the same ;dtime that the handle of the staff is sunk, the gorget is pushed very gently forward, ti-ind without any violent pressure, cutting its way through, and dividing the prostate rfipterally, it enters the bladder. The great point to be remembered is, the de- gression of the handle of the staff, so that that part of its groove, on which the h> ieak of the gorget rests, face downwards towards the sacrum, and consequently fj ifhen the gorget is slightly pressed forward it meets no obstruction, and runs gently jin. If, however, the staff-handle be not depressed, the beak of the gorget drives 7 Hirectly against the staff, and cannot move forward, the staff-groove standing up like a Sj^all against it, and the opposition is the greater the more force is used, till the operator 11 nwittingly alters the position both of staff and gorget, depressing the handle of the /TSinner, and raising that of the latter, so that its point dips, finds less resistance in the cow oblique position of the groove of the staff, and then is pushed on into the bladder [ 1116 operator have good luck, or slips out of it, and passes between the bladder and return, or between the bladder and pubes, which may be expected, if he use much repree and have little discretion. 1 have seen also, in more than one or two in- jisxnces, when the staff-handle has been little or insufficiently depressed, so much ■a tree used, without getting the gorget to move on, that the staff was bent, above its a ,arve, and could only be withdrawn with difficulty.—J. F. S.J ' 2086. All the cutting gorgets have this objection, namely, that in flashing forward their beak in the groove of the staff, they often •/merely push forward the neck of the bladder, and do not cut through « ■; they require much greater force than any other instrument; the mer wound has not the same parallel direction as the outer; on ac- |»unt of the lateral direction of the inner cut, the pudic artery is most i'a e to injury; and if to avoid this, a more descending direction be •ven to the instrument, there is no protection against wounding the Jfe J^T4uction of ,I,e forceps upon *1,e ®orget is ^ 3 t0 the cutting gorget are entirely groundless. No more force is jie prostate wffh^bTf -f8 -than f°r dlvidinS the neck of the bladder and . nnlovotlff o!th th knit' The lnstnlment neither requires force, nor is force Lne the ff??t kn0W how 10 use it; and> therefore, whatever mischief is adder of the Sur8eon> and not of the instrument. In passing into the cannot pushit^teforTIf CUt tk,r0Ugh -lts nec.k’ and also the prostate gland. I ip from f. 1 • fore ?*’ ®o !ong as it remains in the groove of the staff: but if it ,,,onsh r,,ofu? !he A «■»»*»A?“i Between the bladder an?! * , ?£’ he, -beak of *he instrument more readily slips ■ -"not happeo extnt fmr'e dnv?S °n the neck of the bladder. But this ' >rget on wl; l -Pt 1 carelessness, without force being employed to drive the A!^dw?f,A\„”rr;jTire.d ■? *"? H(o) Tkxtoh c i- ® W1 n0t enter without violence, the Surgeon may feel ■' 1 Uthotomie, p! 22? *W5 r zburff* OU A,N *c *1 ^m n ^ f ns der Bla?cnstcin<!, nach gemachter Operation VOL IT urzourg, Iblb—Zano, Operationen, vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 177. 2(1