772 TREATMENT OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER BY CAUSTIC. the different depths of the ulcer, and very closely pressed with the probe so that they may be well applied, and extend beyond the edges of the sop about two lines, or if there be only spots, upon the surrounding healthy skin I If the edges of the ulcer be much swollen, it is necessary to apply thi arsenical ointment, first upon them, and then to put on the pledget, li this way the dressing is to be applied once a day, and each time thc.| sloughs must be removed. Shortly after the application of the ointmen : a burning is felt, which soon amounts to pain, that often becomes severe j According to the degree of pain, and the inflammation in the immediate! neighbourhood, it must be determined whether the salve should be made mor active by the addition of Cosme’s powder (2), or made milder by mixin< with it resin ointment. On the third or fourth day, the pain, swellingd and redness gradually diminish; but the ulcer, winch has increased i. size, assumes a foul appearance. Its fungous and lard-like bottom, which secretes a sort of pus, begins on the fourth or fifth day to become putrescent or to secret a thin ichor. On the fifth or sixth day, this is changed into. soft, moist slough, which cannot be removed like the slough of an absc but must be again covered with the arsenical ointment. According an treatment proceeds, too rapidly or too slowly, the arsenical ointment must rendered weaker or stronger. When, on the sixth or seventh daj tin white, felt-like slough has been completely formed, the sore miatjbj dressed in the same way as before, daily, with balsamic ointment 3), s|e^ as thin as the back of a knife upon lint or linen. On the ‘nthorte. day, the line of separation forms and spreads around the who eplough, which on the fourteenth or fifteenth day is thrown off, and the wound^e^ hibits a healthy suppurating surface. If this surface \etai" ‘ b condition, it must be dressed, till cured, with the balsamic om men bw if any one part still have a foul appearance, the arsemca ointmen niu be applied to it for two or three days, and when it is in hi, uaj bro into a putrescent state, without a slough being formed, it must a,, dressed with the balsamic salve. _<* of tin (1) This ointment is composed of one dram of Cosme’s powder and an ounce narcotico-balsamic ointment, well mixed togethei. 'tie -I st ' i in Usr oat ;wh es iU id rin a rea 11 4 Kt • if. to ointment, well mixed together. , arcenic. twelu "”(2)'HKm.MUND’s receipt for this powder is, Td^^ drams of Sbar, wel grains of charcoal, sixteen grains of dragons > * powdered and mixed. _ , • Wnplr pPrnv;an balsam andextracr (3) The narcotico-balsamic ointment is made with black I «r of tine of henbane, half an ounce each, four scruples of acetate o^fi^y nun tore of opium, and four ounces of wax ointment, well rubbed tocet . _ 2414. The I length of time occupied by this treatment commonly, however, it does not exceed thirty or fortydvSC^y, »«>• no particular diet is necessary. In scrofulous and herj . ;nflam- remedies already indicated are employed. In erythetic. Per^ ‘ ’ isite. ) nation and fever are often so great, that special , 1 nntlopfl dm- no- the use of arsenical omtmeui, have" several times noticed, during the use « nd diarrhoea, which I could not, at > ,,ractice l ean confirm, from numerous cases in my ‘ d pro- pains in the belly, and diarrhoea, other causes. I can confirm, front numero^ ca«» m ^ pro the advantageous efiect of this mode of treatme . and * f this mode of treatment. ■* ne e and tin eTessive effect which may be increased or diminished at pJ^fE\, p0wdei fact, that it can be applied to deep parts and places'yImre C of tht rn fit iv* H | :| fact, that it can be applied to ueep u, In cancer cannot well be used, are the advantages oft^ me^n in ^e cases oi skin, in eating and sloughing spots, it is specially efficient,