FROM PALSY. 413 srssure of the impregnated or unimpregnated womb, on swellings or be»trdened intestines, or on strictures. a 1784. Paralytic Retention of Urine (Ischuria paralytica) in general ro lies on slowly, the urine is no longer discharged with the usual power, "patient soon feels the need of voiding it again, which he can only ■xt with the greatest exertion. This difficulty gradually increases, the neat last flows off involuntarily, and the patient can by his efforts but le or not at all increase the flow, which at last stops completely. The tended bladder forms the already mentioned (par. 1780) swelling above ■mV; pubes, which is nearly painless, and sometimes in such degree that it 5y be mistaken for pregnancy or dropsy, which may be the more possible : the patient occasionally retains the power of voiding his urine by > jdent efforts, often even in a quantity equal to the drink taken in the day, -Jtthout, however, emptying the distended bladder. If the filled bladder I somewhat firmly pressed, a few drops of urine will escape through the js ithra. Is Sometimes paralytic retention arises quickly under severe symptoms of w'pasmodic and inflammatory affection of the neck of the bladder, when, if ii pedy assistance be not afforded, considerable distension of the bladder, i (j l palsy of its walls are produced. In the later course of the disease, >T ;re are accompanying it a flow of mucus from the bladder, thickening of walls, swelling of the prostate gland, and the like. This kind of para- ic retention of urine happens most commonly in old persons who have n dissolute in various ways, have suffered from gout and rheumatism ; id usually the gout or rheumatism is the proximate cause. 178a. When the bladder in this retention of urine has become very much tended, the pressure of the abdominal muscles and bowels prevents f| further distension; some urine always dribbles, and bursting of the adder does not take place. But inflammatory symptoms, and more | less severe fever may accompany it. The flow of urine is then com- < ptely stopped, and the bladder may be distended to such extent that 1 ‘may become grangenous and tear ; this, however, is a rare termination. s Oesteblen (a) divides paralytic retention into Ischuria paralytica partialis vesica, which the powers of the bladder and abdominal muscles are very weak ; and Ischuria * rn('/tica universes vesica, in which there is accompanying palsy of the bladder, and ►| • sphincter muscle of that organ. <>1786. This form of retention of urine is peculiar to old people, and - pends on the loss of contractile power in the bladder, and on the ! tnerally diminishing muscular activity in advanced age. It may be the 0 iu,t previous debilitating causes, debauched life, venereal disease, • quent onanism. T lie bad habit of holding their water very long ,J*:quently produces it in persons who lead a sedentary life, who work rd and frequently allow the disposition to make water to pass by without 4 r ending to it. It may also result from concussion and palsy of the lower ’ [rt of the spinal marrow and sacral nerves, or from organic disease of the •nal marow: it frequently occurs in nervous fevers. I1!8'1 The prognosis of this disease is guided by its degree and duration, .4 e age of the patient and by its cause. It is most easily cured in young e * the older the patient and liis disease are, the less hope is there of [e\ ^ ^he disease be caused by affections of the spinal marrow and !! ra nerves, the prognosis must be directed by them. (a) Heidell). kliniscli. Annalen, vol. viii. p. 421.