700 TREATMENT OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. dies have been recommended. Although it cannot be denied that, in son, ! cases, absorption of the fluid contained in the cyst has been effected b j them; yet, however, these remedies do not produce a radical cure a j the cyst remains, and except such inflammation take place that the who] cyst be destroyed and thrown off, no cure is effected. This method i therefore inefficient, and not to be recommended. 2258. The removal of encysted tumours with the knife, is in genera the most fitting mode of treatment, if the nature and seat of the swellin; permit it without danger of severer injury. The mode of proceedinf varies. If the tumour be seated on a thin stem, an assistant draws bad the skin around it, and the operator removes the tumour at its has. with one or more strokes of the knife. By drawing back the skin, a much of it is preserved as is sufficient to cover the wound and allow flu bringing together of its edges. If the tumour be not large, the skii movable upon it and natural, a longitudinal cut should be made through t'he skin, the ends of which should reach a few lines beyond the circum ference of the swelling. The edges of the wound are then separated fron the eyst with the blade or handle of the knife, or with the finger, care; fully avoiding injury of the cyst, which being seized with a hook ant lifted up from the bottom, is to be cut off cautiously with some strokes o the knife. If the skin upon the swelling be diseased, or if the turnout be of very large size, it must be included in two semilunar cuts at t proper distance from its base, so as to preserve sufficient skin for covering the wound. Whilst the cyst is being isolated, an assistant should con- stantly sprinkle -cold water on the edges of the wound or sop up the blooc with a moist sponge. If the vessels spirt forth, they must be compressed with the finger, and tied after the operation is completed. If the cyst be wounded and the fluid escape, it is difficult to remove it entirely. It it be firm and hang loosely, it may be torn out with the forceps. Whew the whole cyst has been removed, it must always be endeavoured to bring the edges of the wound together and produce union. But, in cases, where the cyst has been removed only on one side, where the parts are very lax and yielding, the extirpation is difficult, and many cuts must be made in various directions, the wound filled with Knt, and its edges only drawn together when the bottom is covered with granulations. . 2259. Tying the encysted tumour, applies to those cases in which ttow vessels running to the swelling are very large and numerous, and grea danger of severe bleeding is to be feared ; or when extirpation is danger** on account of the neighbourhood of important organs, especial]' > vessels. The tumour is to be tied immediately at its base, if that re no too broad, or a cut is first made in the skin at the base, and in this, 1 feature applied with a loop-tier, and daily tightened till the tumo come off. This method is always very tedious, accompanied with niuc , often very great pain, and when the swelling begins to putrefy, the sten is often unbearable. . . , . 2260. Opening the cyst, and removing it by suppuration or with c is performed in different ways. First. In many cases when the c0,l"t*(>I)t of the tumour with the neighbouring parts is not very firm, it «s to cut into the swelling with either a single longitudinal or with a cial cut, to empty its contents and fill it with lint till suppura 10" when the toened cyat can he removed either piecemeal orjl " ■ • ■ ’ ■ ■ with caustic, by appo - on Second. The tumour is opened with a lancet, or witn ca\,B.uu’“"^dli oil of vitriol, or butyr of antimony, and scratching the skin \uti * I * ,1 ittlilMUBMW