26 RADICAL CURE OF Wished belly‘ ^ fourtl1 day> suppuration having been freely esta- ’ e ^feature was removed, but the pressure was continued. On the fifth dav there appeared a degree of fulness about the margin of the opening as if a port on of the inverted skin. had descended, but without any descent Tthe in^tine and X onnr'rSS ^ s,jellmS ab°ut the 1DSuiual canal still led to the reasonable hope that the operation would prove successful. After some days, as the tenderness diminished ie continuer wTedmtade‘d °“ |he twenty-four* day. a weak truss was applied, and ne continued in bed ten days longer, after which time however he would not be slight return Srup Je'f11 ab°Ut’ ^ ^ after left the h°SpiUl1- But he had a 1 !,58‘ most modern practices which may be placed next the former, are those of Bonnet, Mayor, and Beemas. Bonnet (a) employed the same treatment as for varicocele, introducing needles upon the hernial sac, and allowing them to remain. The rupture having been reduced, the scrotum is to be grasped with the left hand as close as possible to the abdominal ring, and the spermatic cord brought into the circle formed by the thumb and forefinger of this hand; a pin with a piece of cork on its head, is to be thrust, close to the suspensory igament of the penis, from the point of the finger nearest it, from behind and above, forwards and downwards, through the integuments and the hernial sac. A second piece of cork is to be fixed on the projecting point and brought near the first piece, so that the intermediate soft parts are easily compressed ; and in order to keep the second piece of cork in its place, the point of the pin is bent down. The spermatic cord is to be placed between this pin and the tip of the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, and a second pin is then introduced six lines distant externally from the first pin, parallel to it, and fastened in the same way. If the spermatic cord have been divided by the pressure of the intestine, into its several parts, a third pin must be passed, six lines from the second, so that the other parts of the cord may be jdaced between the second and third pins. Usually, about the fourth day, pain and inflammation come on; but the pins are not to be removed till the inflammation has acquired a certain degree of intensity, and the hindmost piece of cork has excited ulceration of the skin, which occurs about the sixth, or even at the twelfth day. By this proceeding, not merely is the hernial sac, but also the abdominal rino- closed, and united with the neighbouring parts by the effused lymph. Mayor (b) has modified this practice, by forming at the abdominal ring a longitudinal fold oj skin varying in size according to the bulk of the rupture and the width of the abdominal ring, to the middle of which corresponds a line drawn over the middle of the hernial swelling; through the base of this fold of skin, held up by the fingers, a needle, armed with a double thread, is to be passed, the ends of which being separated on each side, are to be tied on a piece of bougie, or on a piece of cotton, or of sponge properly tied together. The number of stitches is determined by the size of the fold. In children the first stitcli is to be made over the' middle of the abdominal ring, at other times, the stitches may be commenced where you please. If the abdominal ring be wide, and the other circum- stances unfavourable for contraction and keeping up the rupture, it is then necessary to bring the stitches nearer, and to increase the size of the substances which are held together by the threads. In slight cases, and with quiet, intelligent patients, no bandaging is used ; slight compression («) Journal des Connnissanccs Medico-cUirurgi call's, 1830, July.—Gazette Medicate, 1830. Pi.achktsky, F., Ueberdie BoNNKT'sche Radical operation der Ilernien nobst 8 Krankheitafillen ; in Beitragen zur gesamraten Natur und Heil- wissencliaft herausgeg. von Werteswkbeb, vol. vi. pt. i. (fc) Sur la cure radicate des Hernies. Paris, 1836.