CUTTING FOR THE STONE, 614 Geri’s (a) mode of introducing a gorget an inch and three quarters broad at base, three inches and a half up the rectum is objectionable, as straining and purgi. may occur during the operation, and as the rectum is only widened at the expense • its length, and is therefore short and folded, and the peritonreum approaches the neck the bladder, so is the peritonaeum the more liable to be wounded, and certain parts oft rectum must be left undivided. Vacca Berlinghieri mentions the case of ach: operated on by Geri, which died twenty-four hours after, and both these accidents h happened. These objections apply still more to the method of Sleigh (b), who widened t sphincter and the rectum with Weiss’s speculum ani, found the hind edge of the prost; with the tip of the left forefinger, and then without touching the gland, cut through t wall of the rectum and bladder with a convex scalpel, concealed in a spring shea! upon the groove of a staff first introduced. 2116. The after-treatment has the same object as in the lateral operation The patient should take an opiate; he should use mucilaginous, dilutir drinks; at first should take exceedingly little food; and, by a propt treatment, it should be endeavoured to keep off inflammation, which ij more necessary in this than in the lateral operation, because it is accon panied with very little loss of blood. When suppuration comes oi> usually about the seventh day, it is necessary to touch the wound wit caustic at every part of the cut in the rectum; for this purpose, the edge of the wound are drawn apart a little, and a wooden canula, having a b of caustic in it, is passed up, by which the cure is promoted. 2117. The advantages of cutting for the stone through the rectum ai stated to be,first, that the patient is in no danger from bleeding; seccrnt that the bladder is reached through the least thick parts; third, that tl stone is most easily found, grasped, and pulled out, even when of large siz» because the wound corresponds to the largest space of the pelvis; fourtl that no infiltration of urine follows. Geri (c) and Scarpa (cl), the most violent opposers of this practict bring against it, first, that the wound and irritation of the rectum produc intermitting, irregular, febrile action after the operation ; second, that on. or both the vasa deferentici may be wounded, and by the pulling anil stretching in the removal of the stone, are so much injured, that inflank mation, swelling, wasting of the testicle, impotence from the destructioL adhesion or contraction of the mouths of the vasa deferentia may ensuet third, that the neighbouring parts are irritated by the use of the caustic fourth, that by the entrance of the faecal matter into the bladder, there k fear of its internal coat being destroyed, of dangerous irritation, and ft faeco-urinary fistula; fifth, the recovery is more tardy. Scarpa consid this operation even more imperfect than that of Celsus. 2118. These objections are not all of equal weight. The intermittent fever is, according to Vacca’s observations, in but very few cases direc . connected with the wound of the rectum. The injury of one of the deferentia, and the consequences based thereon, Scarpa has not supports by cases; this wound may scar or remain fistulous, and its orifice ma. still perform its functions ; besides, the operator can even avoid this in.j"U and also in the lateral operation the vas deferens and even the vestcu < seminalis may be wounded. The irritation of the neighbouring be prevented witli caustic by Vacca’s method. The entrance of matter into the bladder can only happen by cutting through its («) Rep. Med.-Chir. de Turin, No. 11, p. hA An lissny on an improved Method or cutting (br Urinary Calculi, or the Posterior Operation ot Lithotomy. London, 1824. Svo. (c) Report. Med.-Chir. de Turin, No. (rf) Saggio di Osservazionc mil TW® « Vesicate per V Estrarione della l ictra t Orinaria. Pavia, fol.