271 TREATMENT. forms me with success. There is at the present time, (April, 1846,) in St. George’s ospital, a case of varicose aneurysm in the thigh resulting from a knife-stab.—j. r. s. William Hunter also points out the marked distinction between aneurysmal varix id false aneurysm. “The natural tendency of such a complaint,” says he, “will be iry different from that of the spurious aneurysm. The one is growing worse every >ur, because of the resistance to the arterial blood ; and if not remedied by Surgery, ust at last burst. The other in a short time comes to a nearly permanent state; and if >t disturbed, produces no mischief, because there is no considerable resistance to the ood that is forced out of the artery.” (p. 393.) In the first case which he saw, at the id of 14 years, the swelling, nothing having been done to it, was nearly in the same ite. The second case, in which the swelling had the size of a large nutmeg, so mained, when seen five years afterwards.] 1493. The cure of the aneurysmal varix may be in many cases effected Y continued compression, which either effects obliteration of the artery, • brings the wall of the vein so into contact that the aperture of the ■ter)' is closed. But as this mode of treatment, if the walls of both >ssels be not connected, exposes the patient to the danger of a complica- te with aueurysm, so may it be employed only in recent cases, and in )ung or thin persons, where the walls of the vessel can be sufficiently impressed, and the patient recommended abstinence from all exertion of ie part, when from that evil no further symptoms are caused (a). But the above-mentioned inconveniences of diminished nutrition, sensation, otion, and so on, occur, the operation is indicated, and not indeed, as by any advised, by tying the affected artery above the aneurysmal part, but tcording to the old method, by cutting into the sac, and applying a liga- re round the artery above and below the wounded part (1). (1) Breschet has, from the above-mentioned causes, proved that the tying of the tery, according to Hunter’s plan, in aneurysmal varix, which has existed for some ne, produces only temporary improvement, but that all the symptoms soon recur, as fore the operation, and render tying the artery below the wounded place necessary • the opening of communication between the artery and vein does not close, and is pt up by the introduced collateral circulation of the previous condition. He also kubts the benefit of simply tying the artery below the wounded part, as recommended ' Brasdor. In an aneurysmal varix of the temporal artery, in which, by tying the common carotid tery I obtained only temporary improvement, Stromeyer produced a radical cure by ling the vein (6). He divided the varix; at the bottom of the sac found with trouble mall opening, into which he introduced a probe. He freely separated the lower part the much-expanded vein, and applied two ligatures around it; a third ligature tied a “w”r °CClpf’ whl?h communicated with the sac. After the bleeding was thus rru, i wound was closed with six interrupted stitches. I eVeThmSh! WMch D,r- ga.ve t? the y°unS lady ™s “to do nothing while I SfSSiS f C0,nsiderable alteration ” (p. 398) in the swelling, which she followed , ingle aSy ' yearS’ And m the second case not a hint is given about I hich u\?e°sceEn o'f h N° Trf0n baS bem required for tllis disease- in any case V It rll f ’ 1,Sn0t a dan£erous state, either to the life, or even to the ATKivsovdnfS vC a™ weaker, and nothing more serious arises from it.” (p. 84.) | „• A ‘ l . York (c), however, in a large and increasing size of an aneurysmal Ration!] US lt U neCGSSary t0 take up the brachial artery, but the patient died of morti- | ct4??;. a Vtf’ wounded in the way described, be not in immediate con- tlique no SHo^en7t,W0Unded,at ^ "T* ***’> °r * 011 account of the ,<| no ob hZ? th-6 WAUnd’ °r. by the compression employed, the blood m ,fl°WlnS int0 the vein, the cellula/ tissue which jra\ s Iy an( VGln expa|:>^s into an aneurysmal sac by which ovici^HPA’ abovc cited> P- 432.—Brescdet, - - J . VUU tl \c) Cooper s Lectures, vol. ii. p. 84. (6) 43urckhardt> Archiv. der physioloirischen neilkunde von Hoser und Wunderlich, 18-43.