956 EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER; wards the bone, down on its hinder surface, and the under flap formed, as- it cuts out obliquely downwards about four fingers’ breadth below the joint; before doing which, an assistant grasps the flap and compresses the artery.. After stanching the bleeding and cleansing the wound, the two flaps' are brought together and fastened with sticking plaster; lint and com- presses are then put upon the stump and confined with a body-bandage,. the middle of which upon the shoulder has a hole in it through which the sound arm can be slipped. The earlier methods of Le Dran and Garengeot need only he mentioned as mat- ters of history ; they first took up the axillary artery with a straight or curved needle, two fingers’ breadth below tbe armpit, then with a transverse cut three fingers breadth 1 below the acromion, they divided the skin and deltoid muscle, and after separating the. head formed an under flap. 2804. According to Dufuytren (a), the arm should be raised and held at a right angle with the body. The operator placing himself on the inside of the arm, grasps and lifts up the deltoid muscle with the one hand, thrusts a double-edged knife through it from within outwards,, takino- care that its blade never slips from the head of the bone, lhe knife with its edge towards the bone is drawn downwards, and the uppert flap formed by cutting obliquely outwards. The rest of the proceeding: corresponds with that above described, only that the operator holds the flap before he cuts it through. Here must be mentioned Onsenoort’s method. By means of a knife curved towards • its surface, a transverse cut is made an inch and a half above the insertion of the del- toid muscle; the knife with its concavity on the bone is pushed up to the acromion, penetrates the joint, and by its concave side being drawn down upon the bone the under flap is cut off, so that by a continued stroke of the knife the two flaps are formed. 2805. Lisfranc and Champesme proceed in the following manner. The arm is brought to the side and left to itself. The operator standing: in front of the shoulder drops the point of a narrow double-edged knife into the triangular space between the coracoid process and front edge ot the acromion, and carries it from before to behind through the joint, so that it passes out half an inch below the part where the ^omton voan*. The knife is then carried from above and before around the head of upper-arm bone and a flap formed from the deltoid, as m Dupuytrex s method. This flap being lifted up by an assistant, the capsu ar bga- ment is found opened, and the whole knife being carried in behind the head, the lower flap is formed as after La Faye s mode. If’the left arm be operated on, the knife is to be ^ ‘the left hand, or being held with the right hand, is thrust in at the back of the joint, where it lias been mentioned as coming out, m the method already described, and out at the triangular space, by the coracoid process. f Asti.icy Cooper’s (b) amputation at the shoulder-joint “with a single flap, as n Arp and which he prefers, differs little from the last-described operation, except m the Cot SdeS mSemade from below and up jot. dj. “The sub- Sian artery is to be compressed upon the first rib, from above the clavicle by anas s staT The ring of a common key covered with some soft linen is a convenient ii«W sistant. ine fe canted on a low chair, and the arm to ue ; T. i* fit l rniffot a common ney tu>uiu , ’ . , f kg ° ___ Th<> mtipnt should be seated on a low chair, and the arm to removed should ife' ekvated a little from the sick by an assistant^ In making thesinge , , pipvated a little trom tne sine oy an ussisumi. m ‘“X.V "j removed slioi „ ti,p deltoid muscle with the fingers and thumb of his left hat > flap, the Surgeon raises the deltoid , % under the muscle, near its in- and introducing ns far as the under part of the acromion sertion, lie cuts upwards cj* 1 f (he deftoid muscle are thus raised, so as com- S" - ** then drawn d.w- (6) Lectures, by Tyrrell, vol. pletely to expose («) Dictionnaire ties Sciences Mi-ilicales, vol. i. p. 4%