UMBILICAL RUPTURE. 80 1231. Umbilical rupture after birth occurs, from the time of the sepa- ration of the navel-string to the third or fourth month. If circumstances, as violent screaming, restlessness of the child, and the like, then operate, which force the intestines violently against the walls of the belly, a portion of peritoneum, and of intestine, is easily thrust through the still open navel-ring, or the scar, not yet firm, gives way. As the navel, after the proper obliteration of the annulus umbilicalis, must be considered as the firmest part of the abdominal wall, it is probable that in the cases where true umbilical rupture has been observed in adults, it had already formed in childhood, but, on account of its small size, had been overlooked ; or that the navel-ring is enlarged, as a consequence of great extension of the abdominal wall, in fat persons, or after frequent pregnancies. Umbilical rupture, in adults, is, therefore, more frequent in women, who have been often pregnant, after great extension of the belly from dropsy, and in very fat persons. Umbilical rupture occurring after pregnancy, has a round, sometimes cylindrical, sometimes conical form, and a circular base ; in large swellling, the scar of the navel is more or less smoothed. The coverings of this rupture are:—1, the external skin ; 2, the delicate aponeurosis, which spreads over the external surface of the abdominal muscles; 3, the peritoneum lengthened into the hernial sac. The latter is often very thin, and more often, adherent to the coverings and to the intestines, especially at the point of the swelling; it seems also deficient, and is sometimes torn. The neck of the sac is always very short, and connected internally with the aponeurotic navel-ring ; in old and large umbilical ruptures it is tough, and often cartilaginous. In such ruptures, very considerable adhesions exist between the protruded intestines, them- selves, and the hernial sac, so that they form an inseparable mass, and the contained intestines can only be returned with difficulty. Collections of stool may therefore occur in that part of the intestine between the rupture and the navel, vomiting, and the like. Actual strangulation is rare in umbilical ruptures; if, however, it occur, the symptoms are more severe than in other ruptures, and more rapid mortification is to be dreaded. [Astley Cooper mentions “ an example of the sac having been either absorbed or burst, by which openings have been formed, and portions of omentum protruded through the sac of the larger one.” Sometimes an umbilical rupture forms two tumours, of which Astley Cooper men- tions an instance operated on by the elder Cline, who, “ after returning the intestine from the hernial sac, on putting the finger into the abdomen, an opening could be felt ; I about half an inch from that by which the finger passed, which led into another tumour by the side of the former.” (p. 31.) On dissection, in the tumour that was most inferior “ I found,” says Cooper, “ a small portion of the ileum, and part of the caecum. In the other tumour there was a portion of colon, and which adhered to the sac.” (p. 47.) I have had a case (No. XI. in the Table) somewhat similar, in which the rupture, about the size of a half-quartern loaf, had somewhat the shape of the figure 8, the head of which was rather smaller, and bent over to the left side. In the course of the operation a deep tough band of cellular tissue was found thrusting down the middle of the hernial sac, which retained the indentation after the cellular band had been cut through. The sac contained a large quantity of hard impacted omentum, and some inches of intestine. —j. f. s Umbilical Ruptures sometimes acquire “ enormous size in women, whose bellies are pendulous, from bearing a great number of children. In three such instances,” says Cooper, “ I have seen the hernia extending so low from the navel as entirely to cover the pudendumthe largest he ever saw “ measured across twenty inches by seventeen.” (p. 34.)] 1232. In congenital umbilical rupture, it depends on its size and on the condition of the walls of the belly, whether anything can be under-