427 FROM STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. . . hese means the clanger of the retention be removed, then the treatment ki f the stricture must be commenced according to the former rules. Kin Amussat (a) recommends the employment of forcing injections in cases of retention ai'f urine dependent on stricture. He introduces a flexible cathether, without a beak, town to the obstruction, compresses the penis, and screws on to the end of the catheter *'■ gum-elastic bottle, by which fluid can be injected and drawn out again. Lallemand dlnd Begin (6) think it must not be forgotten that forced injections may be useful, if \ Employed with moderation and prudence, and after the use of antiphlogistics and ttempts to introduce bougies have been fruitless; but that in such case care must e taken not to use too great violence, for if a plug of mucus be the only or principal K ause of retention, it will give way without any violent efforts, and if the parts be i > Hated by separating them, the power exercised in their contraction being equally on i 11 parts of the urethra, which the fluid fills, it will produce severe pain and increase B ie inflammation; or what is worse, may find some part of the canal which is more ,-iable and weak, and tear it. 1 [The treatment which a stricture producing retention of urine, will admit of depends rincipally on the degree of distension of the bladder, and the irritability of the patient, ittempts should always be made to introduce the catheter both before and after drawing lood quickly from the arm, and placing the patient in a warm bath, so as to induce intness. The catheter should be used with great care and tenderness, to avoid the irmation of false passages, which are too frequently made in striving to pass an instru- leut on these occasions. If the catheter cannot be got in, and the symptoms be urgent, c will be advisable to open the urethra from the perinceum, and if there be a stricture, > cut through it, so that the cure of the wound and of the stricture may go on together, it is better to resort to this practice early, if the retention be complete, rather than to ait till the urethra burst behind the stricture, and extravasation of urine take place ; as v so doing the wound heals nearly as after the operation for stone, without much diffi- S1« ulty, and the patient is saved from the trouble and danger of sloughing of the cellular ssue and urinary abscesses. If, on the contrary, the symptoms be not urgent, and the etention have not existed many hours, it is advisable to give tincture of muriated iron i sufficient quantity to produce nausea, by which sometimes, the spasm, which almost ivariably accompanies a stricture with retention, is relieved, and the patient passes his .aflater. Purging also of watery stools is also very often eflicient in relieving retention, d Jr which purpose a couple of drams of sulphate of magnesia, with fifteeen or twenty * i rops of tartarized antimonial wine, with mint water, may be given every two or three ■ f'ars, till the medicine operate freely, and then, generally, the water begins to pass. It Cutting into the urethra, however, should never be deferred when the retention is not, edler a few hours, relieved, either by these means, or by the catheter.—J. F, S.] 1813. If by these means no evacuation of the urine can be obtained, fund the symptoms become urgent, then puncture of the bladder is required. ! mr this purpose, several writers have recommended breaking through the 1 tricture, that is, with a silver conical pointed catheter to penetrate forcibly through the stricture into the bladder, to allow it to remain there several ,days, and then after a certain time, to introduce an elastic catheter for [•fhe purpose of keeping open the canal of the urethra. This proceeding, il nhich is especially founded on Desault’s observations and particularly ^defended by Boyer, is unquestionably, even in the ablest hands, most dtughly dangerous, as tearing the urethra, false passages, perforation of Mhe bladder, severe pain and inflammatory symptoms so easily follow it. Lhe firmer the stricture and the greater its extension, the earlier are these consequences to be dreaded. Only in strictures of slight extent, which |rave not been thickened and increased by frequently repeated inflamma- •on from previous attempts with bougies or caustic, does this method seem applicable. Even in these cases, the use of a conical, pointed sound, ¥> mi easily produce the above-mentioned symptoms, and the use of a thick 1'iound with a rounded end, as proposed by Mayor, is still the most S4^iao?livS G“n^ra'es lie NTcilecine, vol. ix. p. i oil vi p."^i 182K.DIE; J°Urnal de (/;) Diet ion naire tie Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, vol. xiv. p. 344.