624 COMPARISON OP of opium is, not to prevent the rigor altogether, but to cause it to he deferred till following day. The liability to rigors, however, where due precautions are used seldom such as to interfere in any great degree with the process necessary for patient’s cure and his ultimate recovery.”—(pp. 370, 71.)] 2136. If these various circumstances in lithotomy and lithotrity compared in regard to their cause, to wit, the wound in lithotomy, a, the injury of the bladder in lithotrity, it must be presumed that pain a nervous symptoms may be equally present in both, but their frequc repetition in lithotrity is of importance; that bleeding, wound of t rectum, injury to the peritonceum, which are very much to be dread in lithotomy, cannot happen in the modern practice of lithotrity; tl infiltration of urine, so frequently fatal after lithotomy, is almost impc sible in lithotrity; that phlebitis and peritonitis are observed not unfi quently after lithotomy, but very rarely after lithotrity, which al applies in like manner to the continuance of fistula ; that, on the otli hand, inflammation of the bladder, inflammation and abscess of the pri tate are more common after lithotrity than after lithotomy. Bruising tearing of the mucous membrane of the bladder, as also breaking of t instruments in the bladder, is at the present time scarcely possible, wi the improved instruments. Many of the evils mentioned are principally dependent on the operator; this remaj however, applies as well to lithotomy as lithotrity. 2137. Further, if lithotrity be considered in reference to the conditi of the urinary organs, the age, sex, and constitution oi the patient, a the nature of the stone, it follows, that a diseased change and swelling. the prostate, purulent catarrh, great sensibility, and contraction of t, bladder, render lithotrity quite impossible, or considerably increase ?l clcLD p*er Although lithotrity was formerly considered inapplicable to clnldre and numerous experiments by Civiale, Amussat, Leroy, and othe^ have proved its practicability in little children; yet, however, the result lithotomy at this age is so favourable, and the employment of litliotri so difficult, that lithotomy should undoubtedly be preferred. In advanc* age, on the contrary, the results of lithotomy are far more unfavou able than those of lithotrity. In females, the less difficulty in the intr Auction of instruments (par. 20-57) is compensated by the dinigBj of keeping the bladder distended; but lithotrity, although .ithotomy woman is much more rarely fatal than in man, has this great a that no incontinence of urine remains after it, an infirmity, t ie impoa tance of which in women cannot be too seriously thought of. It niu finally be remembered, that for very stout persons, who are always tl most unfavourable subjects for lithotomy, lithotrity is by far less dangenm In reference to the nature of the stone, it must also be considered, with the improved new instruments, even large stones may be broken «j pieces, and that no stone, from its hardness, can easily withstand tna effect • but the frequent repetition of the operation, which in such cases necessary, causes danger, partly from the frequent irritation of theunn organs; partly, and especially, from the repeated febrile the inflammation of other organs thereon dependent. I he “ applies to stones in large number. Such stones as are of moderate and round or oval form, are best for crushing; flat stones are difficult grasp and break up.