281 TELEANGIECTASY. ystem, the redness is brighter, the pulsation more distinct, and the Ljiargement more rapid; but in the venous blood -fungus the redness is Lore dull, bluish, the pulsation less, frequently not at all perceptible, and be growth slower. Jaeger’s assertion, that teleangiectasy never exhibits pulsation, and that this is only he case when it is accompanied with Aneurysma anastomosium, is incorrect. Certainly, t never is perceived in flat though extensive teleangiectasy, but it certainly is, when it |as risen up to actual swelling, and especially in great agitation of the vascular system, •hen the crawling pulsation is perceptible even to the patient himself. | 1510. Besides the considerable ramification and development of the essels, various changes may also arise in such swellings from thickening |nd degeneration of the uninjectable part of their cellular tissue, whereby he swelling varies more or less (1) from that above described. Teleangi- kdasy may also, especially by continued irritation, be accompanied with \neurysma anastomosium, if situated where there are numerous arterial [.unifications and anastomoses. Teleangiectasy then increases more rapidly tronger pulsation is felt in the neighbouring branching arteries, and the ulsation in the swelling itself even, is greater (par. 1496.) (1) I have seen one such teleangiectasy between the thumb and metacarpal bone of he forefinger, as a dusky red swelling, expanding at certain parts into thin blood sacs, rith crawling pulsation, additional swelling, and redness in hanging down of the hand, bd diminution of these appearances on raising the fore-arm, or compressing its vessels [r the swelling itself with the fingers, in which the sac felt as if full of wool. I pplied to it the name of Teleangiectasis lipomatodes. Tying the radial artery dimi- Sshed the extent, and all the other appearances of the swelling (a). | 1511. The causes of this disease are obscure. It occurs at all ages, and |i all constitutions, though most commonly in young subjects of flabby jabit, in children, and women. It is developed in all organs, but espe- pally on the upper part of the body, in the skin of the skull, of the weeks, of the eyelids, and on the lips. A. contusion frequently gives rise 11 must deny von Walther’s assertion that teleangiectasy must be always congenital fecause that peculiar vascular development, and alteration of the iujectable part of the QDStanO.f* Ol t.nP OTfran wVlinVl lmnnonc in A • _ , 1 . . • i i . . ^ uy ns ana 'o10! by the age and constitution of the person affected with it Thp one-emtnl rorl orW t 1 1 .. .. - ‘ c (a) Heidelberg Med. Annalen, vol. i. p. 101. pi. iv.