345 OF PHIMOSIS. arable, must be stanched with cold water, with sponge, with continued ■ssure/or if any single vessel spirt forth, it must be tied. iamuel Cooper and Wattmann recommend the connexion of the two folds with rhfjewwA circumcision differs in that after the child is wrapped from the shoulders ,’he cubes and from the middle of the thighs to the ankles in a cloth properly fastened 1 hfj aCross the thighs of a sitting man, by whom he is properly held, the circum- L grasps the prepuce with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand, draws it wards, and inserts it in the cleft of an instrument similar to a silver spatula. Thus ■ling the prepuce, and raising the penis upright, he cuts off the former close to the Ie ,vith a single stroke of a button-ended knife. The circumcisor now, as quickly as uible seizes the inner fold of the prepuce with his thumb-nails, which have been spe- iu cut for the purpose, and tears it immediately up to the corona, glandis. He then •ts some water from his mouth upon the wound, takes the penis in his mouth, and ks the blood out of it a few times. A strip of fine linen is then wound round the ma and the cut surfaces, as a dressing, and the penis laid upon the pubes, in a ring Prevent it being touched (1). Cerqdem (a) speaks in favour of removing the inner layer of the prepuce, and has posed an instrument like a pair of scissors (posthetome mobile) for the purpose. 1) Many years ago I was present at a Jewish circumcision, and was so much lick with its facility and appropriateness to the purpose, that I have ever since per- ched the operation in the same manner, except that instead of inserting the prepuce be cleft spatula, I merely grasp it with a pair of dressing forceps, as close as pos- i e to the glans, and then cut it off before them. The tearing up the inner part of the pace to the corona is a very important part of the operation, and far preferable to its fision to that extent with the knife, as, whilst the inflammation is subsiding, the cut |es, especially near the angle of the wound, are prone to adhere together, by quick on; and even if this do not extend far, it causes a girthing of the glans, which is ionvenient and often requires a second division to complete the cure. By tearing the ;er skin, which should always be torn completely behind the corona, or the operation 1 be useless, the edges of the wound become sloughy, and disposition to quick union prevented. From repeatedly having performed circumcision in this way, 1 am sure « the best mode. And I may add, that, as regards circumcision or slitting up of the puce, the former is in every case much to be preferred. I never, however, put in v stitches, as they are not merely superfluous, but add to the necessary inflammation :hout sufficient reason.—J. F. S.] Jpon the bleedings after circumcision, see Goldmann (b). 1655. Slitting up the prepuce is performed in various ways, in doing tich, however, it must always be remembered that the outer fold should ?t be well drawn back, so that, as far as possible, an equal division of th folds should be made. Through the orifice of the prepuce is to be in- duced Savigny’s fistula-knife, or a knife specially for this operation (c), th its point guarded, and held flat, till it reach the middle of the corona 'indis; it must then be turned on edge, and, by sinking the handle and idng the point, it is thrust through the skin, and then being drawn "ards the operator, it divides the prepuce at a stroke. The flaps are to grasped, one after the other, with the thumb and forefinger of the left ,n > and cut off obliquely downwards and forwards with the curved issors, along and close to the frcenum, or, if they be not too large, they M e left, and gradually shrink and retract. According to Cloquet’s e V )j a director should be introduced at the under part of the pre- ' th ^ra t0 the franum, and upon it the division made with the knife, he Yr<x.nu™ '3e vei7 short, it must also be divided with the scissors. ungitudinal wound becomes transverse by the retraction of the ePuce, and heals without deformity. “) '"»ve cited. .und V0N Walther’s Jc Off,,’vo1* p. 201. ' } GmLL*KSAU, Ben,. Bell, Petv Latta, have proposed particular kinds of knives for this operation. (rt) Bulletin des Sciences Medicales, 1826, June, p. 206.