673 . KINDS OF BONY GROWTHS. ffi 2202. Bony growths form swellings of greater or less extent, which § arise from the surface or interior of the bone, and in which the texture of the bone either remains natural, or the enlarged bone becomes unusually l firm, hard, ivory like, or loosened up, spongy, and partially converted into a fleshy or lardy mass. According to these various conditions are distin- guished true bony growths, (exostosis,) bone-flesh or bone-lard growths, (iosteosarcoma, osteosteatoma,') and spina ventosa. 2203. These diseased changes of bone may originate in the periosteum, in the bony tissue itself, or in the medullary membrane. Their general origin is an inflammatory condition of the periosteum, of the medullary membrane, or of the membrane lining the bone-cells, which swell by the 11 larger deposition of the juices, and secrete a plastic matter, which by the laws of the natural growth of bone, is converted into bony substance. Or f there is an unnatural growth of the bony tissue, or there is produced in the cells, a fleshy, lard-like or gelatinous substance, which absorbs the mass of the bone, and converts it wholly or in great part into a lardy . or fleshy substance. The causes exciting this inflammatory condition, are either external violence or dyscrasic diseases, especially syphilis, scrofula and gout. According to the chronic or acute character of this inflamma- tion, and the variety of the causes on which it depends, does the course and issue of this diseased change of bone vary. True Exostosis (Exostosis proprie sic dicta, Lat.; eigentliche [Knochenaustvuchs, Germ.) is a more or less circumscribed tumour arising ■itrom a bone, and depending on an unnatural increase of the bony subl "(Stance. This tumour is sometimes confined to one part merely of the tone, and attached to it by a thin neck or by a broad base; at other limes, it springs up without any definite boundary; and sometimes occupies the whole extent of the bone, under which circumstance in tubular bones, the medullary cavity is in general lessened, or completely destroyed. Some exostoses consist of a great development of the bony tissue itself, arise from the medullary membrane, or from the cellular •tructure of the bone; some form over its whole extent, between the bone tseii and the periosteum. )f,nPCCw'”8 ex?stosis “ever arises from the interior substance of the line o?2e ZllSS k US e,Xte'’nal surface i bet™ it and the exostosis, a fine •ells of til h H/ f• 16 b°ne f0TS the boundalT i this is gradually absorbed, so that the the exoMf wldXifrf partially, or completely connected with those of the bone. But •ouseaueno,. nfh developed between the periosteum and the bone, is oftentimes the b011VisSUe .hself’and sPryads the interior nd th.. t„ ter °r 0 bone ,In tbls ease the periosteum is only secondarily changed S pard,ha„d“riv^S Thol hf8® SUD,k |.Ut0 tbeus,lbstance of the bone, is commonly - ike t0 a t -v.4 d.e substance of the mother-bone is compact, hard and ivory - eum itself l °r CSS dePtb; nIn other instances the tumour springs from the perios- ■ »; mJLLapiastc s. ' w,h,ch bony at the same .toe, and in .he •ated by the internal nWof tbl ° boi,10‘ Sometimes these deposits are sepa- »one itself- at other tunes tin. Pe™osleum> and are then more or less movable upon the hange. These exostoses ir! 1 ^ bi,m y attached to the bone, which itself exhibits no '■/‘frequently^SiwffSe y ^ ^ and ra-rely iv0I7;like- They are not T l to them. (Pigne ) * enc^s^ tumours, which by their pressure have given wellino- hJ'nnf"i!*1 na' condition of exostosis varies; sometimes if the •ony fibres i« l . ar^ei a.n(^ ie.ori the surface of the bone, a net-work of >jsu\c , in the interspaces of which a new mass of bone is 1 VOL. li. («) Harulworterbuch, vol. ii. p. 507. 2 x