56 KINDS OF onset it must be remembered that it is not a tendinous, but merely a cellular mem- branous structure, much condensed, and connecting the whole hind surface of the abdo- minal muscles with the front of the peritoneum. It is not part nor process of Pou- part’s ligament, but simply attached to it by one of its processes, whilst the other descends behind it, the former commonly called the iliac, and the latter the pubic por- tion of the fascia transversalis. The iliac portion commences by a sharp angle at the outside of the pubic spine, and ascends outwards, closely attached to the back and upper edge of Poupart’s ligament to the upper front spine of the hip-bone, gradually increas- ing in width, and having a scythe-like shape, with the edge upwards and inwards, to the middle of that ligament, where it suddenly spreads upwards and is interposed between the back of the abdominal muscles and the front of the peritoneum, and is said to be lost on the diaphragm, which, however, is not really the case, for it continues as the con- nector of the peritoneum with that muscle, and then descending upon the front of the loins connects it with the lumbar muscles, and runs down upon the iliacus muscle on either side, between them and the peritoneum, and having attained those regions assumes the name of fascia iliaca, where for the present it must be left. I have said that the iliac portion of the fascia transversalis was scythe-shaped to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and it is there, about an inch in depth. It then runs inwards and descends behind the lower part of the straight muscles, is fixed to the back of the pubic bones, as far as their spines, spreads out on either side beyond them, behind and connected but slightly with the scythe-like portion, up to the upper front spine of the hip-bone ; this from its attachment is called the pubic portion of thefascia transversalis, and its shape is more sickle-like, with the concavity upwards and outwards. The sudden turning inwards and downwards, and afterwards outwards and upwards of the pubic portion unconnected, or but loosely connected with the iliac portion of the fascia transversalis, leaves a gap about an inch and a half above Poupart’s ligament, the hinder or inner abdominal ring, which has a sort of oval shape, or rather like the periphery of the vertical section of a pear. That part of the pubic portion from below the inner ring to the spine of the share- bone, and behind the scythe edge of the iliac portion of the fascia transversalis, alone forms the floor or back of the inguinal canal, down to the upper edge of the external ring, but between this and its connexion to the spine, and symphysis of the share-bone, it is strengthened by the lower ends of the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique ' and transverse muscles, which descend in front of and closely connected with it, to be fixed from the spine to the symphysis of the share-bone, and thus together they shut like a window-shutter against the back of the external ring. A little shallow triangular groove extends from the internal to the external ring formed by the scythe edge of the iliac portion in front, and the pubic portion of the fascia transversalis behind, and in this as in a gutter lies the spermatic cord or the round ligament. It must not be supposed that the inner ring is an actual aperture, except during the descent of the testicle, and then indeed it is only the orifice of a cellular pouch thrust down below the pouch of the peritoneum, which subsequently forms the vaginal tunic of the testicle ; and when, after the arrival of that organ in the scrotum, the peritoneum upon the cord gradually closes and thins, so likewise does the pouch of the transversalis fascia, forming the fascia of the cord, described by Astley Cooper long before Cloquet’s account of it. In addition to this fascia from the inner ring a similar funnel of cellular tissue from the outer ring is given off as the cord passes through it, and the two fascia so called become confounded into one below, between the external ring and the testicle. (2) The superficial fascia or aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is not tendi- nous, but merely the cellular tissue which connects the skin with the front of the abdominal muscles, and descends upon the spermatic cord and testicle to connect them with the skin of the scrotum.—J. F. S.] 1187. At these two points inguinal ruptures are formed, and upon the difference in their origin depends their division into external and internal or oblique and direct of English Surgeons.) 1188. External or Oblique Inguinal Rupture (Hernia inguinalis ex- terna, Lat. ; Aiissere Leistenbruch, Germ.; Hernie inguinale extern» Fr.) commences at the seat of the obliterated canal of the vagina™ tunic, or the intestines pass into the canal itself, which remains partially or completely open. This rupture proceeds from above and without,