936 EXAUTICULATiON OF THE THIGH, twisted on itself, the other part of the capsular ligament and the round ligament ar divided, and the operation completed by cutting through the muscles on the other sid of the thigh. . 2750. Bryce (a) compresses the femoral artery, and makes a transverst cut on its inner side above the trochanter, above the highest part of tli ; hip, ties the femoral artery, cuts through the capsular ligament, separate^ the head of the bone, and at last forms the lower flap. 2751. According to L’Alouette, the patient should be placed on hi sound side, the femoral artery compressed with a tourniquet, the thiga stretched out, and an assistant draws the skin back. With a semicircula j cut extending from the upper outer part of the great trochanter to thn ischial tuberosity, all the soft parts are cut through to the joint. Th joint is now felt for with the nail of the left forefinger, and the capsula ligament opened. The assistant rolls the thigh inwards, the projectin', round ligament is divided with a button-ended bistoury, and the head of th bone dislocated by bending the thigh towards the chest, upon which thl knife being carried round the capsular ligament, completely divides it, am a flap is formed four or five fingers broad, by bringing the knife down on the inside of the bone. * 2752. According to Langenbeck. (h), a transverse cut should be mad from the front of the thigh, not too near the femoral artery, on the oute' side, down to the back part of the thigh, opposite the ischial tuberosity which should divide the soft parts to the neck of the bone ; then b; turning the knee inwards the exarticulation of the head is effected, ano the inner flap is formed by cutting round the inner surface of the tlngh. 2753. Deepech (c), who has performed this operation twice success fully, after having tied the femoral artery, thrusts a single-edged knife two inches below the superior anterior spine of the ilium, between the m sartorius and m. tensor vagina: fejnoris, to the neck of the thigh- one inclines the point inwards, and pushing it well into the cavity hetweei the little trochanter and the neck, thrusts it through at the hinder part The knife is now drawn down on the inside of the thigh-bone, ant ) » i i 1 'I hit? rl!)n 1! _L lie iVillltJ tIU W MICE t . mj • flon 1* cutting inwards a flap is formed about eight inches long, ihis flap jj EUlLliig in»»uxuu 14 ““p ■*-’ *'"* u , , X j rpi fill' held back by an assistant, and any spouting vessel in it tied, ine m is now inclined outwards, the capsular ligament divided sennciiciliar y the head of the bone dislocated, the round ligament cut through, knife carried behind the head, and the mass of muscle and skill chviaeo by a horizontal cut. After the vessels are tied, the flap is I0US , ,j the wound and united with sutures an inch apart, l oo muc i s i» " , not be preserved on the outer side, and it is better, if necessai), 0 the inner flap longer. This method is a modification of Barkis , ^ which an outer flap is also formed. wonting that In this way, Orton, Clot, Cherubini, and Well have operated, excepting Clot did not tie the femoral artery first. 2754 Lenoir (d) compresses the femoral artery, and standing o outer side of the limb, which is inclined inwards, makes a transve^ ^ on the hinder outer side, draws the soft parts back, penetrates1* ^ outer hinder part of the joint, and ends by forming an internal flap, assistant compresses the artery in the flap till it is tied. he 2755. According to Plantade (c), an upper or Jiont flap A . (a) Above cited. , v „ -’05. Uni- ’ 250. (0) OlDllOtneK Uir UIC —t r (e) Journal general de Medecine, vol. cm. p- J- 1828.