TREATMENT BY SETON. 505 01 the scrotum and of the vaginal tunic, and passes with a common needle a single or double thread from above downwards, which he removes on the third day. Onsenoort (a), with a needle curved and having a handle, passes a ligature through the middle third of the swelling from above downwards, or from below upwards. After the fluid has completely escaped, the thread is tied tightly. Two days after, the ligature is tightened, and after the cutting.through is completed, on about the fourth or fifth day, the wound remains open from the bottom till the cure is perfected. In very large hydroceles he thrusts the needle into the middle of the swelling, carries its point upwards out through the skin, leaves one end of the thread loose, carries the b point of the needle back into the cavity of the vaginal tunic, thrusts it through the skin if below, and brings the other end of the thread out, and as he draws the needle out leaves ij the thread double in the middle wound, and cutting it through there, forms two n$1;; ligatures, each of which he ties. ll [My friend Green, from having observed the difficulty of regulating the inflam- iifti mation, in treating hydrocele by injection, the impossibility of determining, at the ■«. time of the operation, what the effect will be in respect to the quantity of in- i). flammation, and the dangerous results from the injection having been thrown : (into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, instead of into the vaginal tunic, was led jjri to employ the seton (b), but differently from either of the above-mentioned modes. i He thought, “if a seton were carried through the tunica vaginalis, there would be a h source of irritation sufficient to produce the required inflammation, and at the same time the opportunity given of regulating its degree, that is, that the seton might be a lowed to remain till there were symptoms of such a degree of inflammation as is n requisite for the change necessary to be produced in the tunic, and that this being a effected, the seton might be withdrawn ; and that the extraneous irritant being thus ! removed, it would have no farther effect than was necessary, either for the change of '»* the surface of the membrane, or for the obliteration of the tunic, (pp. 73, 74.) The ■id requisite degree of inflammation is one which is attended with the ordinary symptoms gi of that process, that is to say, pain, heat, swelling, some redness, and some constitu- : tional affection. There should be, I think, some affection of the pulse, some in- f; dication of febrile action in the system, before the seton is withdrawn. As soon as i ; this has been observed the threads may be removed, and I believe that you may f then expect you have excited inflammation enough to cure the disease. So that it is not whether the seton has remained in ten, twelve, or twenty hours, for this must be hi regulated by circumstances, but whether then the requisite degree of inflammation lij is produced. _ I should say that twenty hours was about the average time for the BCseton to remain; hut it will vary in different instances.” (p. 76.) Green’s method c°ns1jsts *n drawing off the water, as usual, with a trocar and canula, and when d the hydrocele is emptied, the «canula still remaining in, to pass a needle six inches •n in length, and as thick as a probe, with a trocar point at one, and an eye at the Tf other end, armed with twelve threads of ordinary seton silk, into the canula, and aving carried it upwards to perforate the tunica vaginalis and integuments, near the t'i tipper and fore part of the swelling, and draw it out at that aperture. The canula is ! then removed, and the ends of the threads loosely tied together over a space of about two inches,’ (p. 59,) and these allowed to remain in till the inflammatory symptoms shove mentioned make their appearance. 1 ' * fori;lerly employed this practice a good many times, but one great objection seems »fvto me the close watching it requires for some hours, and the difficulty there always is • L rmin,ng th? precise time when the seton threads should be withdrawn : and ’ . ‘ *,0ftcn’ even with the greatest care, either very severe inflammation would occur, I . Z, en ,enouSh only was supposed present to effect the cure, that it suddenly sub- : l ecuied'?natUic0ni °Prrf01! was„ re^uisite' . After ushlg the iodine injection, I never trt;atmCnt’ altll0USh 11 was grounded upon better reasons than wer ot the other modes of using setons seem to have originated in.—J. F. S.] l955n.The UJe a tent consists in the introduction, after puncturing- eswelling, of a tent of lint, or a piece of bougie, through the opening Hmt0 the cavity of the vaginal tunic. 3water56; CttUffio* citing of a paste made with nitrate of silver and ' il l app • the usual way "P°n the front of the swelling, and Pj el to remain for six or eight hours. When the slough has fallen off, 1828."ng der Hydr0Cele <lurch *!i? ; in Gkakfe und Walthkb’s Journal, vol. xiii. p. W St. I homas s Hospital Reports.