IN THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. 397 -ofuse purulent expectoration. Dufuytren (a) gives an account of a man who lived K years after a small coin had got into his air-tube, and on examination it was found fin bedded in a tubercular cavity in the lung; Louis (6) also relates another case, which after swallowing a louis-d’or, a man lived six years and a-half, and then died iith his right lung completely destroyed by suppuration. My friend Sutton, of Green- Jlteh has mentioned to me a case of hcemoptysis, which he attended many yearssince. The an had frequent attacks for more than a twelvemonth, from each of which, however, e rapidly recovered Upon the last occasion, he was summoned suddenly to see _.e man; who was said to be in a dying state. On his arrival he found the patient had yud a very severe attack of dyspnoea, and threatening suffocation, from which, however, , had been immediately relieved on rejecting from his windpipe a common lathe nail, uch corroded. The man was a plasterer by trade, and now remembered that some time ; fore first requiring Sutton’s assistance, he had swallowed a nail whilst lathing a i iiling, but had thought no more about it till it was thrown up. He died some years Iter of diseased lungs. Dr. Paris (c) relates the case of a girl twelve years old, who •. staving put a small cowrie shell in her mouth, was seized with a violent choking fit, in Sjnsequence 0f its having been supposed to have gone the wrong way in the act of swal- ' wing it. The spasmodic paroxysm was described as most alarming, and continued for 3 fveral seconds, which induced her father to thrust his finger with considerable force wn her throat, which afforded immediate relief, and therefore convinced him that he Mid thrust the foreign body into the oesophagus, and that it had passed into the stomach. * * In the course of four or five days a slight cough came on, hut it was not cha- Hcterized by any symptom which would lead to the suspicion of it having been pro- ■ ' iked by the presence of any foreign body in the air passages, and this opinion was con- ■ 'ined by its speedily yielding to the ordinary treatment.” Between three weeks and a A:ionth after she had “ a return of the cough much more violent than usual, and accom- imied with slight hcemoptysis. This, however, again subsided, and she remained for ; {any months in perfecthealth ; her breathing was never disturbed, she indulged in her - sual active habits and daily exercise, and declared that she was perfectly well. * * * 1 bout twelve months after, she had danced at a ball during the whole evening, and at :»; conclusion, in the act of moving briskly, she was suddenly attacked by a violent spas- »odic cough, which threatened suffocation, when by a sudden and convulsive expiration, a ibstance was ejected from her mouth with such force as to be carried to a considerable dis- nce. This proved to be the remnant of the shell, the animal principle of which had dis- npeared, and its earthy matter alone remained.” (pp. 116, 17.) In the younger Travers’s ’se(d), a girl of six years, who was suddenly thrown back whilst eating cherries, “ was (: ^mediately seized with a violent fit of choking and every symptom of impending suffo- i.tion. This condition lasted an hour, and then she fell asleep.” On the next day she ,'id some spasmodic pain in the chest, and on the following “ morning the breathing •as very difficult, and other symptoms of inflammation present,” which were relieved y blood-letting, a calomel and jalap purge, and calomel and opium. On the afternoon ,*k.e f°urth day “ she had a violent convulsive seizure, with cough, small quick pulse, livid surface, suffused eye, and every sign of threatened suffocation. It was stated in uidence of the violence of the spasm, that the stools and urine ‘ flew’ from the child iring these attacks.” She grasped and pulled her throat in a peculiar manner, “ ery- : g in a half whisper ‘ take it out! take it away !’ The spasm subsided after two hours’ ’ntmuauce,” and a few hours after she was so tranquil as to lead to the belief “ that no tone could have passed into the trachea.” In the middle of the following day the fit Mcurred, with “ violent jactitation and abundant flow of frothy mucus from the mouth. hen it,had subsided, the probang was introduced, and the child swallowed with greater kjcuity.” On the seventh day there came on a similar attack ; on the thirteenth, and 190m that time daily, till the nineteenth day, when Travers saw her, and she had then requent paroxysms of croupy cough, attended by great restlessness and the peculiar jasping of the throat” Under these circumstances, he performed tracheotomy ; but - iso °ne T38 n0t tllrown out! breathing, however, became tranquil, and the cougli ■ _Ce?e<1’ returned, however, on the twenty-sixth day, but less severely. About iliuvWla"er’ the woun(l> which had been tented healed, and soon after “ the child Ition v lucess.ant'y> had nightsweats, with loss of strength and appetite.” In thiscon- ione to f c5lntln')e<l Ml the ninety-sixth day after the accident, when she threw out “ the ^Dector* t |fcr W . a table-spoonful of pus, during a violent paroxysm of cough ; having ,v. rof1 C<1 ^|US ln SInah quantities for many days previous. From this time the cough urned, and the general health was soon re-established.” (p. 108-12.) ’(*;*MlmnafraAe9’iTOi1' p- 58'*- (<-') Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxiii. 1840. U ) Mem. de 1 Acad, de Chir., vol. v. p. 529. \d) Ibid.