RADICAL CURE OF 28 introduction of tents, as the inflammation thereby excited quickly spreads over the whole of the 'peritoneum, and the intestines. Therefore, also, many of the earlier adherents to this or that practice, have, after unfortunate results, given them up entirely ; and although some, for instance, Kern, have always observed fortunate results, and only one case terminate fatally, yet these assertions are too greatly opposed to the experience of others, to enable us to yield them entire belief. All the modes of treatment, at the same time, in reference to their permanent consequences, are uncertain, and the statements of the cures are confined principally to immediately after the operation. Although the external abdominal ring and a part of the neck of the hernial sac be loosed, there remains (in external or oblique inguinal rupture) the opening of the internal abdominal ring into which the intestines again enter, and by gradual subsequent absorption of the effused plastic mass, and the thinning of the scar resulting therefrom, the rupture enlarges outwardly. In many cases, if the enlargement of the opening out of which the vessels of the testicles and thighs protrude, be the consequence of a bad, lymphatic constitution, apertures are formed in other parts of the belly, and if the rupture be kept up at one part, it will be seen to project at some other part. In gouty, otherwise healthy subjects, in a small rupture of not long continuance, if the sac be not thickened and not united to the neighbouring parts, the result may be at first favourable. Increased pressure, with the supine posture, is of all treatment the least dangerous, and may be attempted in all cases, although even herewith, severe inflam- mation and gangrene (Manget, Richter) and even death (Wilmer, Schmucker) have been observed. As to this mode of treatment, the methods of Gerdy, Bedmas, and Mayor, are arranged according to their less danger. Gerdy has up to the present time had the greatest success; I have, however, seen a recurrence of the disease, and according to Rreschet (a), the results have in several instances been unfortunate. If, as in old ruptures where the sac adheres to the aponeurotic opening, (the abdominal and femoral ring,) and consequently a mere inthrusting of the skin be not possible, the hernial sac be thrust in and held with loops, dangerous inflammation may easily occur; and this is still more likely to occur, if, as in Bonnet’s practice, be adopted. In this respect Mayor’s treatment is least attractive. I consider as some of the indications for the so-called radical cure those reducible ruptures, which even in the above- mentioned supine posture, with the application of a truss, cannot be certainly kept up, especially in young persons, Gerdy’s or Mayor’s treatment is the most proper; but a truss must always be worn subse- quently. The possibility of an unsuccessful, and the probability of a not permanent result must not be withheld from the patient’s knowledge. The patient’s wish to be cured radically, at all hazards, and to get rid of the use of the truss must not, according to the hitherto noticed results, determine the Surgeon to operate. Opinions in reference to the value of the radical operation for reducible rupture, are in modern times much divided, many rejecting it as dangerous and ineffectual. (Boyer, Dupuytren, Lawrence, and others,) and it has been attempted to be effected by continued pressure alone (Richter, Langenbeck, Zang.) Few have allowed its general employment (Kern, von Graefe.) Some confine it to certain cases (Schreger, Von Walther, and others.) Schreger especially lays down the following indica- tions: i. To remove certain local conditions and to render the application of a truss possible, for instance, in the complication of inguinal rupture with hydrocele, and indeed (n) Journal vonGkaefe und vmn Wai.thkb, vol. xxii. pt. iv. p. 657.