983 OF EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. much pleasure that the popliteal artery was found pulsating. The limb was then placed on the side with the knee a little bent, the wound dressed, and some splints applied to keep it steady. Directions having been given to cut a hole through the bed, so that his motions might be passed without alteration of his position, this was made so large that in the course of the night he slipped right through, and was found on the i floor. He was immediately replaced and the apparatus re-adjusted. I am not in- formed how he went on, but at the end of a twelvemonth, short of four days, he was ; considered well enough to leave the house, the wound being healed; but he could not j bear upon his leg. Some months after a large abscess formed in front above the head of the shin-bone, and after the lapse of twenty months from the time of the acci- i dent, a large piece of bone about an inch thick exfoliated, and came away. From this time his amendment was permanent, and about five or six months after he became able i to bear on his leg, and at last to walk, having a wooden pin, about four inches long, fixed on the sole of his shoe, which was firmly fastened to the back of his leg by a light iron shield fitted to it. January 5, 1847.—I saw the boy, now fourteen years of age, a stout lad. The thigh- and shin-bone are firmly anchylosed by bone, in a slightly-bent posture. The scar is very distinct, and to the extent already described. The leg and foot are inclined a little outwards, so that the inner joint-surface of the head of the shin-bone juts forwards before the shaft of the thigh bone, and is rounded. The connexion of the two bones seems to be complete right across. The knee-cap is distinct, rather small, quite free from anchylosis, and capable of being moved a very little from side to side, but quite sufficiently to show that its natural condition is unchanged. Above the knee- cap is the scar by which the exfoliated bone came away. The calf-muscles are larger than usual, I think, for a boy of his age, which is rather remarkable, as the m. gastroc- nemius externus must have been completely deprived of its principal upper attachments. —J. F. S.] VI.—OF EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. (Excisio Tali, Lat.; Ausrottung im Kniegelenhe, Germ.; Resection du Pied, Fr.) 2839. Excision of the lower end of the shin- and splint-bones was first performed by Moreau (a) in the following manner:—The patient being laid on his sound side, on a table covered with a mattress, the knee bent and the leg resting on the whole length of its inner surface, one assistant grasps it above, and another at the foot. The scalpel is thrust in perpen- dicularly upon the hind edge of the lower end of the splint-bone, the skin Sand cellular tissue cut through from above downwards, and the wound about three inches long, ends in a transverse cut, extending from beneath the outer ankle to the m. peroncus tertius. This flap is now separated from the surface of the splint-bone, turned up, and held upon the front of the leg. The m. peroncus longus and brevis are now separated from the part of the bone to be removed, which being cut off at the proper length I with a sharp chisel, can be easily taken away. Through the same wound I the lower end of the shin-bone is to be separated from all the soft parts I attached to its outside. The patient is now to be turned round, the leg ® laid on its outer side, and a fresh flap made by one cut, three inches long, K on the back and inner edge of the shin-bone, and another from the lower P end of the former, running below the inner ankle to the m. tibialis anticus, I. and the flap then turned up. The fleshy parts attached to the back of the I shin-bone are then separated to the height determined by the caries, so I that the finger can be passed between them. The leg is then turned on !' its front, and carried so far from the other leg, that the operator can kneel n down between its inner side and the edge of the table. A small narrow fs saw, with a blade six inches long, is now passed from within outwards, J through the opening between the muscles and the bone, to the other side, 1 then worked, and the handle sunk as it gets deeper in. After the sawing (n) Above cited, p. 91.—Itoux, nbovc cited, p. 63.