'EXARTICULATION OF METATARSAL BONES. 952 of the great and little metatarsal bones: third, the exarticulation of one* of the middle metatarsal bones. 2190. The preservation of the great toe, when the other metatarsal i 1 bones are removed, is a great advantage to the patient. A cut should be'iJ made in the space between the great and second toe, and a second along.]* the outer edge of the foot, and both connected at one or two fingers’- iJ breadth below the tarsal joint on the instep ; the skin is then drawn back, W and the joint opened from the outer edge of the foot, after which a large<|‘ flap is cut from the sole (a). The outer two metatarsal bones are removed in the same way. 2791. The exarticulation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe is - performed most conveniently, in the following way:—A small amputat- j ing knife is entered on the outer side of the great toe, at a stroke, through! j the soft parts, between the metatarsal bone of the great and second toe up \ to the joint of the former, with the cuneiform bone. Then the metatarsal ] bone of the great toe being drawn inwards, the whole edge of the knife is 4 carried into the joint, and whilst this is done the great toe is pressed for- -j cibly inwards, till the metatarsal bone is completely dislocated. The edged of the knife is then carried round the joint-surface, and being kept closed to the outer side of the metatarsal bone at its connexion with the greats toe, forms a flap sufficient to cover the whole surface of the wound. The' dressing is like that in amputation through this bone. 2792. If the state of the soft parts will not allow the formation of a side flap, a lower or upper flap must be made in the same way as in ampu- tating through the bone (par. 2729) after a longitudinal cut has been.J made on the outside of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Or Lan- genbeck’s or Scoutetten’s method may be adopted ; though the opera- tion is then more tedious and difficult. When the situation of the joint has been found by feeling with the finger, and the place (par. 2788 note) marked, the point of the left forefinger is put on this part, and the other fino-ers, excepting the thumb, placed on the sole, for the purpose of sup- porting the foot. A cut is now made, beginning two lines behind the joint, and continued obliquely, from within outwards to the commissure« of the toes, to the base of the first phalanx opposite the crease of the« joint, on the sole. This cut is now left, and the bistoury, placed on the inside of the phalanx at the lower angle of the cut, is carried up along, the inner side of the toe and metatarsal bone, obliquely from within out- wards, to the beginning of the cut. After dividing the skin, the kmte is carried anew into the wound, and successively cuts through the ten oik, muscular fibres, and skin on the sole of the foot, leaving the two sesa moid bones attached to the joint, and separates from the metatarsal bon 1 the skin attached to its inner side. The joint is now again sought for opened, the point of the bistoury being held vertically, and the edge a litu obliquely from within outwards, and from behind forwards. As the in- ternal ligament is divided, the knife is drawn backwards, and the undiviueu fibres of the upper ligament cut through whilst the edge of the knife ^ directed upwards, and the point sunk obliquely at an angle of 4o m space between the first cuneiform, and the second metatarsal bone a knife, of which the point has been thrust down to the soie of the foo , raised to a right angle, and by tins movement, the fibres of the nit (b) Key ; in Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 2-H. 1S30>.