683 FUNGUS OF DURA MATER AND OF SKULL-BONES. -ophy is sufficient to distinguish this affection, and that of necrosis, and of inflam- mation with suppuration of the medullary membrane of the bone. As to the treatment little remains to be said. The tuberculous affection is beyond all j he resources of art; when it affects an important organ, the patient is generally nevoted to death; when it affects the bony tissue, it is rare that it has not been deve- >ped in the lungs or in some other organ. However, when it only affects the bones, it l iay be hoped, that nature will effect the cure; especially if her efforts be seconded by wholesome diet, a residence exposed to the sun; in a word, by attention to the treat- ment of scrofula. This happy result is much more frequent at the period of puberty manat any other time of life.” (p. 491-93.) III.—OF FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER, AND OF THE SKULL-BONES. Fungus Dura Matris, Lat.; Schwammige Auswucks auf der harten Hirnhaut, Germ. ; Fongus de la Dure-Mere, Fr.) Kauffmans, Dissert, de Tumore capitis fungoso post cariem cranii exorto. Helmst. i i Haller, Disput. Chirurg. Select., vol. i. p. 49. 3 Louis, Memoires sur les Tumeurs fongueuses de la Dure-Mere ; in Memoires de ) . Acad, de Chirurgie, vol. v. p. 1. Eti Sandifort, Exercitationes Anatomicae, cap. iii. Lugd. Batav., 1785. t , Museum Anatomicum Acad. Lugd. Batav., p. 142. L. B., 1793. ; von Siebold, a; in Arnejiann’s Magazin fur die Wundarzneiwissenschaft, vol. i. Ort iv. p. 142. Wenzel, J. and C., Ueber die schwammigen Auswiichse auf der aussere Hirnhaut. .ainz, 1811. fol.; with six copper plates. vonWalther, P., Ueber die schwammigen Auswiichse auf der harten Hirnhaut, nach genen Beobachtungen; in his Journal, fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. i. 55. Schwarzschild, H„ Dissert, de Fungis Capitis. Heidelb., 1825. 4to.; with four hographed plates. Seerig, A. G. H., Nonnulla de Fungi Durae Matris origine et diagnosi. Uratislavise, o.; with three lithographed plates. F Eeermaier, Ueber den Schwamm der Schadelknochen und die schwammartieen hjijnswuchse der harten Hirnhaut. Diisseldorf, 1829. 4to. J Chelius, Zur Lehre von den schwammigen Auswiichsen der harten Hirnhaut und B r Schadelknochen. Heidelb., 1831. fol.; with eleven plates. 3 Unger, Beitrage zur Klinik der Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 264. t Kosch, Beitrag zur der Lehre von den Schwammgewachsen am Kopfe • in von 3' RAEFEund von Walther’s Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 542. 31 Osius; in Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. iv. part iii. i 2224. Fungus of the dura mater is an unnatural growth, arising from K ie surface of that membrane, which in its further development, by the J sstruction of the bone, thrusts up beneath the external covering and i iises them into a tumour. I 22_o. I he symptoms at first occurring in this disease, are extremely | ^rtain and ^definite, as head-ache, sometimes slight, at other times U AJ severe, often periodical, sometimes spreading over the whole head, .miJL01116111?68 fi^ed. to ?"e spot; afterwards dizziness, a sensation of con- ■ net;/' afiK cor‘Pus*on ft1 tl'e head ; vomiting, pallid countenance, and - asung; loss of sensation in some one part and the like. Sometimes, V run?*' l” t ie early stage, the disease presents no symptoms. As the ‘ nin! <|1' ar^es upon the surface of the dura mater, that membrane is i is au ■ ° a Sreater extent from the skull, and partly in consequence of * ’ 1 m part by t,ie pressure of the swelling, the bone is destroyed by