218 HUNTER’S OPERATION opening of the artery, introduces into it a probe or a female catheter, with which the artery is to be raised above the sac and separated from the surrounding parts; a ligature is then to be passed round it with Desciiamps’ • needle (1) and tied. In this way the artery is to be isolated and tied above the swelling. (What will subsequently be said, in reference to the form of the ligature, applies here.) The cavity of the sac is then cleansed ; filled lightly with lint, covered with sticking-plaster and a compress'' and the whole kept in its proper place with a four-headed bandage. (1) Desciiamps’ needle is the most convenient instrument for a ligature; if made of silver, it can assume every necessary curve. Weiss’s and Kirby’s needles are suitable for some cases of very deep-lying arteries. As to the numerous varieties of aneurysmal needles, compare— Arnemann, Uebersicht der beriihmtesten und gebrauchlichsten Instrumente alteren und neuerer Zeit. Gottingen, 1796, p. 193. Krombiiolz, Akologie, p. 391. Holtze, De arteriarum ligatura. Berol., 1827. 4to., pi. ix. 1424. Hunter’s mode of operation requires the laying bare and isola- tion of the artery at a suitable distance above the seat of aneurysm (1). It i is here especially to be remembered, that the artery should be separated from its surrounding cellular sheath only as far as is necessary to carry' around it, with Desciiamps’ needle, a round, but not too thick ligature, ■ which is to be firmly tied upon the artery with two single knots (2). The ends of the thread should be laid in one or other angle of the wound, the edges of which are to be brought into close contact with sticking-plaster, ■» in order to effect the cure, if possible, by quick union. The ligature separates, according to the size of the artery, between the eighth and six- teenth day. I consider tying the artery with a single round ligature, by which its inner and middle coats are divided, (ascertained by the artery forming a swelling above and below the ligature, and by the ligature being heaved up by the impulse of the blood,) with the < simultaneous simple treatment of the wound, as the most preferable mode of treatment (pars. 283, 285.) The different modifications must, however, be here mentioned, which have been proposed for the more certain attainment of a successful result. Scarpa (a) holds, in opposition to Jones, (who concludes from his own experiments, that the division of the internal coat of the artery, with a single round ligature, favours the formation of a plug of blood, the adhesive inflammation, and the pouring out of plastic lymph within and without the artery,) that this result happens less frequently in men than in animals, that after-bleeding occurs the more quickly, as on the setting up of suppuration, the external coat of the artery is less capable of withstanding the impulse j of the blood, and that this happens so much the earlier, as the division of the arterial < coats by the ligature-thread resembles more a torn and bruised, than a cut wound. Also that the ligature-thread does not bring both the divided coats together, but only tie wrinkled walls of the external. As the internal coat of the artery is very much disposed* to adhesive inflammation, and plastic exudation, so a pressing together of the artery is sufficient to bring about adhesion. Upon these grounds, Scarpa prefers, to all other' modes, tying the artery with a small band of waxed threads, between which and the artery, a little linen cylinder, smeared with cerate, is placed. Iu this mode, however, the artery must be laid bare, no further than necessary to carry the baud round it, nor the cylinder be longer than a line, or thereabouts, beyond the ligature, which, for the largest artery, should be about a line. The band must not be drawn excessively, but only sufiN ciently tight to keep the uninjured walls in close contact. By this plan of tying.* closure of the artery is produced by the actual joining together of the touching walls of- the artery. Such flattening of the artery and touching of its walls, had been previously - performed with broad ligatures, with the underlaying of a piece of wood or cork (3> Deschamps (b), more recently Crampton (c), Assalini (d), and Kohler (e) 'ia'e (a) Memoria sulla Legatura delle principali Arterie degli Arti; con una Appendice all’ Opera gull’ Aneurisma. 4to. Pavia, 1S17.—VaccaBek- i.inohieri, A., Istoria di una Allacciatura dell’ Iliaca estema c Itellessioni sull’ Allacciatura tern- poraria delle grandi Ai'Cli!. Pisa, 1823. (6) Above cited, f. 1—1. , (c) In Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. vil. p* (*’) Dissert, ststens quredam de Ancurysmati^o* scalpelli ope ra curanuis. llerol., 1818.