240 TYING TIIE POSTERIOR AURAL. be divided the whole length of the wound, and the pulsation of the artm-^l being felt, should be carefully isolated, so as not to injure the accompan^S ing veins. 1448. To tie the posterior aural artery, a cut half an inch ]oni» si should be made, from the lobe of the ear to the inner edge of the sternal mastoid muscle, and continued upwards along its inner edge an inch ja upwards; this cut divides the skin, fatty cellular tissue, and the muscuuD aponeurosis. An assistant with a blunt hook separates the edges of the wound, and then is seen, at the lower angle of the wound, a portion of the i parotid gland ; but in the upper angle, the lower edge of the lower retractor of the auricle ; in the middle of the wound the artery is to be M i sought for, isolated, and tied (a). Syme (b) tied a branch of the posterior aural on account of aneurysm. 11 [ Astley Cooper (c) had a case of “ aneurism of the posterior aural artery from a blow 4 f he opened the sac, and was compelled to tie, not only the vessel which led into the smlmU but numerous others entering in all parts of the circumference of the swelling." (p. 82)^ Rf.otn (fit elves the account of an aneurysm of fbe middle ’ • * Begin (d) gives the account of an aneurysm of the middle meningeal artery *® which the bone having been absorbed, the tumour became superficial, and, being mis-7 1 taken for an encysted tumour, was extirpated. An ineffectual attempt was made to stop'i > the bleeding by plugging; but the patient could not be saved. The branches of the internal carotid artery within the skull sometimes become^} aneurysmal. A remarkable instance of this kind occurred to Dr. (afterwards Sir' Gilbert Blank) (e), in a female of sixty-four years old, who “ was suddenly seized with ‘ : a fit of giddiness and dimness of sight, succeeded by acute pain in the forehead, which remained for some time. The indistinctness of vision continued for six mouths; after 1 this, she was at intervals seized with giddiness, headache, and imperfect vision. She had , . a similar attack two years after the first, from which also she recovered to a certain > degree. From this period she continued subject, from time to time, to the aliove-men-r R oo 1 r\n rr o o cbn 4V. .. J. «w » .1 tioned symptoms as long as she lived. She for some time saw objects double, but the1 particular period of this could not be ascertained.” (pp. 193, 94.) She afterwards betrayed# : signs of mental derangement, and became maniacal, and died in that state five year* after her first attack. On examination there was found more water than usual in the: : ventricles of the brain; upon the falx, some spicula of bone ; and the optic nerves wen a smaller than usual, as if they had been wasted.” The morbid appearance in this case.a ? which was so singular, and to which the symptoms of complaint seemed chiefly referable t : was to bulbs about five-eighths of an inch in diameter, filling up the hollow ou each side u ; of the sella tursica, which were evidently dilatations of the carotid arteries, and, from their being filled with laminae of coagulated blood, there could be no doubt of their bein' aneurisms of these arteries. The one on the left side was the largest; that on the righ communicated with the cavity of the artery, which was not the case with the other.’ Blane observes :—“ It is probable that one of the aneurisms arose five years before he 6 death, occasioning the first attack described, and that the other arose two years after;' wards, occasioning the other attack. It is also probable that it was between these ton « attacks that she saw objects double, from the unequal compression on the optic nerves. (pp. 196, 97.) Hodgson mentions an instance of a small aneurysm in the anterio cerebral artery, filled with a solid coagulum, and another in the basilar artery was see-' by Serres.] II.—OF ANEURYSMS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN AND AXILLARY ARTERIB 1449. Aneurysm of the axillary artery in general increases quickly, a the surrounding parts offer little opposition. The swelling raises the grea pectoral muscle, spreads towards the collar-bone, and thrusts it upward: It is, therefore, rarely that this aneurysm is so early observed, that ther (a) Dietrich, above cited, p. 211. (//) Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xxxi. p. 66. 1329. (r) Surgical Lectures. (d) Dictionnairc de Medecine et do CJiirufS pratiques, vol. ii. p. 533—article, AnArymf t (c) History of some cases of Disease in the BfW* in 'Prans. of a Society for the Improvement Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. ii. b'vo.