RESULTS OF AMPUTATION. 905 wound. Experience as to success is the only way by which the correctness of practice ^ -tS °f EDgJiSu P1'aCtiCe iD regard t0 a-Putation will pUe its superiority, if fully carried out, and the necessary and only necessary, dressings for keeping the edges of the wound together, be employed, without swathing in reliefs and cross bandages, and even m woollen nightcaps, which in my earlier days I have seen employed, the only effect of which is that they encourage the suppurative and dis- courage the adhesive process.—j. f. s. s OF THE RESULTS OF AMPUTATION. f SUbjeCt °f/1!e hlShest consideration to the Surgeon as regards his decision fromh PRrformance of thls operation, and his expectation of the success resulting there- ?ENJAMT‘I Phillips (a) has given a highly interesting paper on thfs very ® ppic’ aud Jhe r.esult of hls inquiry is, that the mortality after amputation iu hrance Germany America, and England together, is 23* per cent. Ur. Lawrie (6) has also occupied himself with the same important matter and draws his conclusions from a series of 276 cases of amputations of allkES hi the G asgow Infirmary; from which it appears there were 176 recoveries and 100 deaths or a proportion of deaths to recoveries as 1 to 1'76. recoveries, Dd 100 deaths> nf th^ER ^ about th„e same tirae gave to the Medico-Chirurgical Society an account aJy 1841 SSSnfffiT*1-?? fYnlVersi'T C°llege Hospita1’ from June 1835 to Janu- al?d ? S 6 ’ Wlth their reslllts> among which there were only 10 deaths I now m?ve a he-Tre am°Dg 10 CaS6S of primaT amputation for accident. ’ 1835 ndT na; ','Cf acco™t °P54 amputations which I performed between the years live^more at ?enlUS1aft’ a ,St' ,Thoma.s s Hospital; some particulars, of which I Xl lengtffafter the description of the several amputations: Total. Through the Thigh For Accidents, Primary'. ■ Secondary Scrofulous Diseases of Knee Other Diseases Cway HospitalVi t must be evi- .-■stated, by some surgical writers as the ordinnrn J)ei ceii^* whi°h has been !°'be observed also that the largest mortality is anmnITh56 °f fatal amPutations* Jt will IJ ln(l on the lower extremities In 7 m y, »-c § *le oases operated on for accidents, 't dirough the leg, 3 d ed 'Whils of r nT 1 ,tbr°Ugh ,the thigh. I lost 6 ; and of 9 (a) oh~„ • P y aDd 1 seC01ldal7 amputations in the upper I lmputations in d*iflfe"?n?Co^^ °f 00 Results of Amputations at University Col 1 “J**! G^tte, vol. xxii. lbs L°ndon '««« Lon,In!,, statistically a^rattged fm 'Iedical(JTOtte'voi* Medtco-d.nruretcal 1 ransactions, vol. xxiv. p. ,5j.