THE CHEST; OPENING OF CHEST CAVITY. 473 1894. The collection of these fluids may arise in various ways ; by an g tbseess in the lung opening' into the chest, in consequence of an inflamma- 5 ion of the lung and pleura, after penetrating- wounds, extensive fracture ? )f the ribs, and the like, from a perverse secretion, from an insidious a nflainination of the pleura from organic disease of the lungs, as well also ili rom the slow occurrence of hydrothorax. * Abscesses on the exterior of the chest between the pectoral muscles and the pleura ,<j a rely penetrate the cavity of the chest, because the pleura in general becomes much hi lickened. ■ [Sometimes the empyematous matter is discharged either by bursting into the lung Tt self, or through the walls of the chest. Under these circumstances, the effusion is ircumscribed by adhesions, forming a distinct abscess, and separate from the general m avity of the pleura. According to Laennec, the matter of empyema is discharged more requently by bursting into the bronchi than by ulceration through the walls of the best. Townsend (a), however, thinks that their frequency is nearly equal. Some- id mes the abscess bursts both outwardly and inwardly, and thus a fistulous passage is il. inned for the escape of the pus. Instances of this kind are mentioned by Le Dran (b) ’ ad by Andral (c).J 1895. When from these collections in the cavities of the chest, the func- ions of the lungs and heart are destroyed to such extent as to endanger <i ife, when the accumulation cannot be got rid of either by the powers of y ature, or by suitable internal treatment, opening the cavity of the chest •' Paracentesis thoracis, Operatio empyematis) is required. This opera- 16 ion can, however, only have a favourable result when the purulent or v ,-atery accumulation is unaccompanied witli other incurable disease of " he chest, or with symptoms of general dropsy and the patient have not een already greatly enfeebled by long continuance of the disease, or by olliquative symptoms, and is not very much advanced in age. The accumulation of pus in consequence of external injuries is the most I 0Peful for a favourable result to the operation, which, however, must r> lways be considered a very serious one as regards the consequences that 0 lay arise from it; although, on the other hand, it must be remembered « iat the efficiency of the operation is considerably undervalued on account f its too late and rare performance. In the above-mentioned cases it is y ie only means of preserving life. 1 Opinions vary as to the period at which accumulations after inflammation take place ! ;„r£7Ule8 °o the chest’ as some are in favour of the early performance of the opera- Sk0“ks’ Baennec, Gendrin, and others); it can, however, only be msiaereu permissible under the above-mentioned conditions. (Krause.') it has hpen ' mentloned (par. 495) that and under what conditions, opening the cavity of the B 1 ls accessary in extravasation of blood and collection of air. ^ u 1896. Opening the cavity of the chest is performed either by a cut or >■ > a puncture with the trocar. Opening the chest has been practised from the earliest times in very different wavs • % thr°£gh the ribs (Hipocrates, Pare, Severinus,) or througl the | dilL0n nffEEN’r!{OGER,of l arma’ Hurdiann, van der Wvl, and others); second I >jna A the s°0 Par,s> “• Wlth the actual cautery (Euniphon of Cnidos, Paul of <1 enife”through the sVoZhrrIUvA™N’ and others,) /3. with caustic, and thrusting l by puncture with E Sp , ENIN’ luYSCH’ Bromfield, von Winter, and others) ; f making a cut through the skin and laying bare the fxivrL, )o^Bov :i1'NOI;N’ .?e™-’ and °thcrs’) or with the trocar, ■Rime, Beltostf\ or wdth and„others;) wlth blunt instruments, as a sound (Dionis! pe skin, by thrust’inir V (Hreck) ; 5. without previously cutting through y ting in a knife, (Ruazes, Diemerbroeck, Purmann,) or the trocar I 6) Nation, de Chlrurgie, vol.^V^T ^ ^ , s ■ vui. p. -oj. (e) Clinique Medicate, vol. ii. p. dSP.