OF THE RECTUM. 335 it • some way up, above the anus, perhaps three or four inches; at other times it is only I short extent.” (p. 28.) , . , , , , T •>) This, I presume, is the condition to which Lawrence (a) refers, where he speaks ,1\< auother form of disease, (stricture of the rectum,') in which the mucous membrane -ms to be formed into a large, spongy, soft, excrescence, in which the patient was l ected with all the symptoms that would be produced by stricture; for this spongy state a the membrane diminished the dimensions of the bowel.” (p. 855).—J. F. S.J u 1629. These changes have either a less or a greater extent; commonly, ttey are circular, and the narrowing is so considerable, that an aperture, Jiit larger than a straw, alone remains ; often they occur only at one side r on the edge of the valvules conniventes, in consequence of which cord • bridge-like contractions, single, cone-like growths are produced. These ij owths, of different size, attached with narrow necks or by a broad base, hard, spherical, oval, single, and vegetating sparingly, or growing si xuriantly, collected in wide or thick groups, are often confined to the edge e the rectum, or spread over the whole extent of the cavity of the rec- oin, or even extend into the colon. Although at first insensible, they j ,ow, become painful, and terminate in cancerous ulceration, as already -dtscribed. The distinction between these excrescences and the hard, memorrhoidal knots consists specially in their yellowish red colour, their ■dhooth-skinned, even, tense surface exhibiting not the slightest trace of ood-vessel, in their regular, firm, in some degree elastic consistence, in e absence of all fluctuation, and in their complete insensibility on great essure. The various form and condition of these hardenings depend on e seat, extent, and character of the inflammation and irritation. sI See further on this subject, -JDessault, Squirrhosites du Rectum, in his (Euvres Chir., vol. ii. p. 422. :u Schreger, Ueber tuberculose Excrescenze; in his Chirurg. Versuchen, vol. i. p. 258. Tanchou, above cited. | 1630. Stricture of the rectum, from the above-mentioned changes of h 3 membranes, may happen at all parts of the bowel, but most frequently the region of the internal sphincter, about two or three inches above w ie anus. The knowledge of stricture of the rectum, its seat, nature, id form, is simply and alone to be obtained by examination. On the troduction of the finger, oiled, a narrow, hard, unyielding part is felt, ther as one or several little, projecting folds or partitions, into the open- ig of which the finger can be introduced only with difficulty or pain, or it at all; or as a hardening and contraction of the walls of the gut to a reat extent; or as ulceration, with hard edges ; or as tumours of various "to. The examination should be always made in the recumbent posture, Jcause the valve-like narrowings at the upper part of the gut, which ostly are seated on its front, form a sort of pouch in front, and above ■e narrowed part, which, when the patient stands upright, prevents the <amining finger discovering the stricture. If the narrowing be so 'gh that the finger cannot reach it, the examination must be made ith a wax bougie or a sound covered with modeller’s wax, which, softened M oiled, should be carefully introduced into the rectum, and gently ressed on the seat of stricture, in order to take an impression of it. In orog this, the anatomical relations of the rectum, and the rules subse- "en y laid down for the introduction of the bougie, must be remembered, prevent mistake, as the examination by this mode is much less certain («) Lectures ; in Lancet, vol. ii. 1829-30. >15