UMBILICAL RUPTURE. 79 arteries than either obturator or epigastric. Lawrence mentions a case of stran- gulated bubonocele in which “no blood was shed during the operation haimonhage, however, took place on the same evening, but yielded to the application of cold cloths. There was no further bleeding till “ the morning of the eighth day, when a profuse hemorrhage took place from the wound ; it consisted of arterial blood, and did not cease till two pints at least had been lost. He survived this occurrence about a week. The vessel which had been divided was “the arterial branch, which the epigastnc sends to the spermatic cord; but its size did not seem adequate to the supply of so profuse a bleeding.” (pp. 273, 74.) Everard Home (a) also relates a case of stran- gulated scrotal rupture, in which suppuration of the testicle having followed the opera- tion “a haemorrhage took place in the evening (of the tenth day), which made the removal of the testicle necessary in order to secure the vessel. He lost a pound of bloodbut ultimately recovered, (p. 109.)] HI.—OF UMBILICAL RUPTURE. (Hernia umbilicalis, Exomphalas, Lat.; Nabelbruch, Germ.; Hemie ombilicale, Omphalocele, Fr.) Desault, GSuvres Chirurgieales, vol. ii. p. 315. Cooper Astlet, Anatomy and Surgical Treatment of Abdominal Hernia, part ii. .29. Oren’s Preisschrift liber die Entstehung und Heilung der Nabelbriiche. Lanshut, 1810. Soemmering, S. T., Ueber die Ursache, Erkenntniss und Behandlung der Nabel- briiche. Frankfurt, 1811. Thurn, Ueber die Ursachen der Nabelbriiche, bei Kindern und deren Heilung besonders durch Abbinden; in Yon Siebold’s Chiron., vol. ii. part ii. p. 3. Muller, H., Inaug. Abhandl. iiber den Nabelbriieh, mit einem neuen Vorschlage zu seiner Behandlung. Enlangen, 1841. 1229. The True Umbilical Rupture passes through the opening of the navel, and is thereby distinguished from the so-called false umbilical rup- ture, which is formed in the neighbourhood of the navel. Umbilical rupture, is either congenital, or arises accidentally after birth. 1230. Congenital Umbilical Rupture is the consequence of an arrested development of the foetus, of a backward formation of the abdominal muscles, the foetus remaining in that earlier stage of development, in which the intestines have not yet entered into the cavity of the belly. This rupture is situated in the spongy cellular tissue which connects the vessels of the navel-string together. It is therefore on this account opaque, where covered by the integuments of the belly, but transparent over the rest of its extent where surrounded by the cellular tissue of the navel-string. Besides this cellular tissue, this rupture is also enveloped in a hernial sac, and lies in a triangular space, which is produced by the separation of the vessels of the navel-string from each other. The veins are always above, the two arteries below and on the sides. The size of this rupture varies accord- ing as it contains a larger or smaller quantity of intestines. Several portions of the small intestines are usually contained in the swelling ; fre- quently, also, the colon, omentum, stomach, liver, and spleen. [In tying the umbilical cord after birth, care should be taken to ascertain previously whether there be any protrusion of viscera into it, which sometimes having, from the small size of the rupture been overlooked, intestine has been included in the ligature, and wounded; instances of which are mentioned by Mauriceau (6), Sabatier (c), and others. (a) Cases and Observations on Strangulated (b) Traitc des Accouchemens, vol. i. p. 497. Herma, in Trans, of a Society for the improve- (e) De la Mcdecine Operatoire. vol. i. p. 152. ment of Med. and Surg. Knowledge, vol. ii.