LATERAL OPERATION WITH COME’S LITIIOTOME. 595 | -ith his assistant’s liand, carries it in a direction corresponding to the [, liite line, raises it beneath the arch of the pubes, so that it forms a tij ght angle with the trunk, and pushes the cystotome, the handle of which he sinks a little, along the groove of the staff, up to its blunt ic ctreniity. After the cystotome is withdrawn, the operator carries the iipint of his left forefinger upon the staff and into the opening in the c1 adder; the staff is then withdrawn, and a blunt gorget, previously 1 led, with its concavity upwards, is introduced upon the sensible sur- face of the left forefinger, which serves as a guide. The dilator, with front blades closed, is now introduced upon the gorget, and after iwe withdrawal of the gorget, the wound in the prostate gland is madually enlarged, by bringing together the hind branches of the idator to such extent as the size of the stone seems to require. ■Tor the further description of this operation, the following writers are referred to:— /*OLe Cat, above cited. ;Kast, (preside C. Siebold,) Historia Lithotomise in eodem homine bis facta;, jurceburg, 1778. _ - iIIartenkeil, above cited. ^fjLoDER, Programma Lithotomise Le Catiantf. emendatae Descriptio. Jenae, 1785. -De C?ICUliTTVf-icSE sectione laterali inprimis Le Catiana ; in ri^uscula Chirurgica, vol. i. Hafmse, 1799. otRdbtokffer, F. X, Abhandlung liber die Operation des Blasensteines, nach j aaola s Methode. Leipzig, 1808; with five plates. I 2088. Tins operation has partly the same objection as the cutting gorget ft it the parts are easily pushed before it, and not always cut through to 3 required extent; and that the enlargement of the insufficient cut with 3 dilator not ^infrequently causes great bruising, and its consequent nptoms especially a permanent weakness of the neck of the bladder 7?, ExPenments uPon the dead body have satisfied me that the ot the dilator does not effect a simple enlargement, but if the extension le great, an increase of the wound by tearing. In other respects this lotion is more complicated than all the other modes; it is, however I ployed with considerable success. ’ IS, The ctut int0 thf Neck of the Bladder and the prostate, with a WFticular instrument. ■ft-nm 7. ., . , . ^rument from within outwards. To this belongs Frere 11mS ™fhod Wlth the concealed lithotome (lithotome cache.) S ■ YY HPn fhp mif/at’ U i _ i . i , ) K- r TlCUt l,as bce" i. opened l ofTe'tf 'K'™ “TTn '“T the P'oove of theV“pT"fte [jl the left forefinger, which has been previously introduced into it | )er°fu ,W1? i1HS Je? hand 8Tasps the handle °f the staff, raises it l h thetv, k ? °f thf reqmred cut The lithotome is now held | h, and wW st Se handfe? ^ °? itS,lo"k’ is raised «nder the pubic b teed (lowi v tl tb , 87asPed, the right hand, and the lever prawn out horVontallvS-f°U7 * ?nSers uP°n the handle, the blade ind. and lnchned towards the lower angle of the 2 q 2