SEROUS AND PURULENT COLLECTIONS IN THE CHEST. 469 According to Dubourg, the tip of the swelling is to be taken hold of, j raised a little up, and a part of its base cut through with a straight knife, |p in such way as to form two flaps, which are brought down upon the spinal column, and without at first cutting into a middle string, which is gene- i rally felt, and is formed by the sheath of the spinal marrow. Immediately 1 after the rest of the base is cut off, and now but little skin remains. The at pressure of an assistant’s finger should prevent the escape of the fluid and a-the entrance of the air. The edges of the wound are then to be united i with two, three, or four hare-lip pins and the twisted suture. This ope- i: ration is required when the swelling and the opening are of small size 4 and the child’s health otherwise good. STavignot seizes the swelling at its base with an instrument similar to i pair of forceps, before which he cuts off the projecting mass, and then unites the edges of the wound as in the former mode. Beynard surrounds the base of the tumour with a spring, into which i ligature is introduced, and ties it up. The tightening of the ligature is f§' padually increased till the inner walls of the sac, brought into close con- F act, unite, after which it is cut off and the remaining suppurating part Ej Bought together with sticking plaster. If the tied swelling be very \ ense, a portion of fluid may be allowed to escape by puncture. 1890. Of these several modes of treatment that of Beynard seems pre- >1 erable, as by it the too quick emptying of the fluid, and entrance of the :»• iir are prevented, the union of the applied surfaces more certainly effected, il .nd the cutting off performed when union is produced. Dubourg’s me- lt 'hod is, in reference to these points, to be considered the most severe and ?< langerous. ■ C V—OF THE COLLECTION OF SEROUS AND PURULENT FLUIDS IN THE CAVITIES OF THE CHEST, r ®RANDES) De Thoracis Paracentesi. Gdtting., 1791. F Gomprecht, Depulmonum abscessu aperiendo. Getting., 1796. •* Andouakd, De l’Empyeme. Paris, 1808. ■ WMem°iresur les Epanchemens dans la Poitrine et l’Ope'ration de l’Em- > >eme; in Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 237. r IiHt%i^Hmp01442Ur lGS ^ r°Peration de fKmpyeme ; in Mem. de Chirurg. I Andrew, Contributions to Morbid Anatomy, No. IV. Empyema and Kfa nmato-thorax; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xvii. p. 322 1891 |SdSM'SS»rej»i’EmPyi”e P1“"ae "»»*> ®n Memorial ties Hopi- I Moan, B, Beitriige zu dner kiinftigen Monogiyphie Jes Empyems. Kiteingin, 1S39. I« edillot, De 1 Operation de l’Empyeme. These soutenue, &c. Paris, 1841. £ Be^bac^tungemDanziSg,*Il843?'^Un^ auf medic5nisch ™d operativem Wege 1 £"*Tond^'Large \^ema;in Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine, vol. ii. { Jr8_9i' If in U;6 cavity of the chest ^rous fluid {hydrops pectoris, hydro- I^Cl hirt a?e n(ro7yT“? C?le?’ 7mPtoms of compression of the lungs I f extravns'iti P uce<1’ Slmilar to those already mentioned when treating H colIcctil)l‘ "f *n ‘he cavity of the chest 1 1892. if the collection be only in one cavity of the chest, the patient can