CRUSHING, OR LITHOTRITY. 561 readily examined, by the angular curve of the instrument. Its operation is powerful and quick ; large stones can he crushed with it more quickly and with less effort, and are converted into a coarse soft powder; but the fragments of hard stones are very angular and sharp-edged, and produce, by irritating the bladder, pain, difficulty in their passage through the urethra, and frequently their lodgement there. The strength of the in- strument, notwithstanding its small size, in comparison with others, is when properly used, so great that there is no fear of its breaking. To this may be added, that it is by far the least costly instrument. The pcrcuteur, therefore, possesses all the advantages of the other instru- ments, without any of their disadvantages, and it may be with certainty presumed that it will supersede them all. 2040. Before proceeding to the operation, the most perfect information must be obtained, by examination of the position, form, size, and consis- tence of the stone and of the state of the urinary organs. For this purpose a common catheter may be made use of as already directed (a). If there be no circumstances contraindicating lithotrity, if no further preparation of the patient be requisite, or it have been already made, the rectum must be emptied with a clyster some hours previous to the operation. Previous to the introduction of the straight perforator, Civiale and others have for the space of a fortnight, in addition to very strict diet and luke-warm bathing enlarged t e canal of the urethra, by the daily use of elastic bougies, to such extent as'to render he introduction of the instrument easy. The patient is thus at the same time accus- tomed to the irritation of a foreign body, on which account Civiale also uses bougies 3ven when the passage of the urethra is sufficiently wide. ° ’ 2041. The patient should lie upon a common bed, or upon a table covered with a matrass, both of which should be sufficiently high that e operator have not to stop. It should also be narrow, and the'matrass I. I he buttocks are to be raised on pillows, the back flat, the ohoulders and head a little raised. The patient should either lie len<nh- •vays and the operator standing on his right side, or obliquely, with*his ump on the edge of the bed, in which position his feet are eitlier to rest ■n a stool, or to be supported by assistants, and the operator stands be- ween his thighs. r2LbfdS Speuially for,thi® PurPOse, as recommended by IIeurteloup, Bancal and ■ anchou, are thus rendered superfluous, although they are advantageous lw tu’ • he patient easily and quickly in the fitting pJtureTw^^^^ acihty and security. Rigal’s chest-like contrivance, which contains all the mw T instruments, may also be placed on a table to give the7aS a diSp\ ™ T™ jarar-for 6rm,y •w**** *■«•£■« •.•nstcs.'sso; ^fter votldance of ‘he urine, a quantity of lukewarm water ilver catheter ^il^6 C.-nlty °f th®, bladder> is to be hijected through a ]ari... . ter> tdl a visible or sensible enlargement of the region of the a ler ,s produced, or the patient has an urging to make wSer The lthetor l p • L 1 • tone once more examined; after which the [If t, h«VlnS bCen Wlthdrawn» the lithotriptor is introduced. (d) cJi"? CG °f th<i UTethra bc vcry narrow, it must be enlarged downwards with ,r- »ro glwnVSCHLEPS0' eitftm,nBtion> Bnd of similar construction to that of IIkurteioup’s pcrcu- VOL. II. 2 o