759 DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESS OF CANCER. r B«1. I , )>! 1 ■ ' H i tl I >?'■ ii a! K>i Hi' i n> bfi- ■wi It' l».‘ Mfca M': tea iiikt >r »di to: 1» & ly . C *. ‘ <' ‘ ku . r!* i vj a- ■ bK<; If 1 a ria nh rt. hjfc- VI 1 r* <fl Bo «• Vi- fait to the point at which the pyriform bodies are attached to the enclosing cyst, it must nearly correspond with the direction which some of these bodies take towards the circumference, and these edges will consequently be seen in the form of radiating lines. On the other hand, if the section be made more or less nearly transversely to the axes of these bodies, their section will convey the idea of cells of various shapes. If we continue dissecting and raising the outer cyst, forming the reflected membrane which covers the radiating pedunculated bodies, we shall generally find that on one or more sides it dips down deeply into the mass of the tumour, and forms a part of the septum which separates the one packet of pedunculated bodies from the others, which generally concur to form the mass of the tumour; for it comparatively rarely happens that the tumour is composed of a single cyst filled with peduuculated bodies. On examining the different encysted packets of pedunculated bodies which compose the tumour, we shall often find some indication of their having taken their origin from nearly the same spot, which is gene- rally the most indurated part of the tumour. We may likewise observe that the different secondary tumours, or encysted bundles of pedunculated bodies, are in very different stages of progress. In those in which the internal growth is most active, we shall find that a process has taken place perfectly similar to that which I described as oc- curring in ovarian tumours when the development of the contained cygts produced the hernia or rupture of the containing one. The secondary cyst or cysts, which make their way through the containing one, rapidly advance when they are free from the restraint which its pressure afforded, and thus constitute another tumour, which adds to the original mass. If we examine the structure of this new tumour, we shall find that the subordi- nate growths of which it is composed, radiate from the point at which this tumour made its escape from the original one. At the same time that the escaped cyst or cysts acquire their more rapid growth, they often acquire a new character with respect to their consistence, which is generally much more soft and tender. * * * Those parts of the tumours in which the rapid and unrestrained growth is most remarkable, are generally situated near the circumference, where they are at once both exempt from the restraint of mutual pressure, and receive more abundant supply of nourishment from me surrounding natural structures. A marked difference exists between those just described, and others in which development has been restrained, or vitality lost by pres- sure, and consequent defective supply of nutrient matter. I have already explained the mode in which these effects are brought about in those ovarian tumours in which the secondary cysts are thickly crowded and attached by very narrow peduncles. Pre- cisely the same process takes place in the tumours of which I am now speaking; and when we make a section through one of them, which happens to be composed of many secondary tumours, and which consequently presents many centres of radiation, we shall often find that the penduculated bodies connected with one or more of these centres have lost their vitality by a natural strangulation or ligature, and also that the imme- tately adjoining parts which yet retain their vitality, irritated by that which has now acquired the character of a foreign body, are brought into a state of inflammation. The result of this compound action is the formation of a cavity filled with broken down and softened matter of a peculiar character, intermediate between suppuration and gangrene. ms process very frequently takes place before the exterior of the tumours exhibits any symptom of irritation or inflammation, and to my mind, very satisfactorily accounts or that disposition to central softening and decay, on which Laennec, Wabdrop, and wme others, have so forcibly insisted as characterizing the progress of heterologue ueposus. At the same time, I think I am correct in stating, that for the production of mis form of gangrene or softening, the supply of nourishment should be pretty promptly sl_ ? fly die operation of the natural ligature. When the process proceeds more R.r„ 1 le parts which are under its influence gradually acquire an increasingly dense unmvY6’.- ultimately ^coming penetrated by earthy matter, are allowed to remain dim;.-uC ,V8 °f ?er,°us ,mtatlon> notwithstanding their deteriorated organization and devel 'n ®Uppl7 of n°urishment. * * * Such tumours in the course of their thiohnn;mentcP, UCe’ by ,l.he lrntatI°n which they excite, a greater or less degree of ternalin ?•! -the surroullding cellular structure, and sooner or later become visible ex- thiS dilating the integuments which are stretched over them. The points at which rationtn0," “ the most considerable are inflamed, the inflammation proceeds to ulce- thus rL!' iC tumou.r either sprouts luxuriantly at the part from which the pressure is ‘‘Thmr>Ie^’ •>r I)a.rtIclPates ,n the ulcerative process. ■itsram,e,.,V CCIi jS universally described as presenting elevated and everted edges, while name of a'lli depressed central portion is bathed by an unhealthy secretion, to which the Prodimmi ; caiJ scarc'e*.y be applied. The mechanism by which this peculiar ulcer is i well worthy of attention. I have shown that at the external part of the