617 BY THE LATERAL OPERATION. Ti if cutting for the stone in females may be most conveniently brought ■Uoo-ether under the following heads: — °First. The cut below the arch of the pubes, with the divisions of the n urethra and neck of the bladder. a. The cut made as in the lateral operation. b. The horizontal cut on one or both sides, with or without dilating. c. The vertical cut upwards. | d. The vertical cut downwards. Second. The cut below the pubic arch, without division of the urethra. Sa. The vestibular cut of Celsus and Lisfranc. b. von Kern’s method. c. The vagino-vesical operation. Third. The cut above the pubic arch. [It may be well to notice here Astlky Cooper’s observation, that women suffer il nore from stone in the bladder than men, and that “ in addition to the symptoms s-vobserved in the male, as the irritability of the bladder increases, the pain during h/nicturition is excessive, and there is agonizing suffering after the discharge of Riche urine from bearing down of the bladder, uterus, and rectum, with a sensation K )f their being forced through the lower opening of the pelvis. The retention of T urine becomes imperfect, and the person is always wet, and smells offensively of urine. The sufferings of the patient at length render her incapable of moving ,'rom her bed.” (p. 298.) a Brodie observes, that “in women, calculi of a small size are expelled as they Imre in the male sex, without ulceration or other injury to the urethra, and without ■the patient suffering any inconvenience afterwards. Calculi of very considerable * ize occasionally escape from the female bladder; but the natural cure in these I »ses is effected by a less simple process.” In one case he mentions “a large »\mlculus was found in the vagina, which was extracted with the fingers, the urethra Rind vagina had ulcerated, and the calculus had passed through the ulcerated open- J ng.” (p. 350.) A similar case is mentioned by Astley Cooper, “in which the S [tone” was placed half in the urethra and half in the vagina; the extremities of ^Jiihe stone were large, and connected by a narrow portion which passed through 9'j;.n ulcerated opening in the under part of the urethra.” (p. 298.)] 2122. Cutting for the stone in women by the lateral operation is ci net-formed in the following manner:— After the patient has been bound and properly fixed in the same •position as in operating on the male, the labia are separated from ■ach other, the operator passes a straight staff through the urethra ' nto the bladder, holds it with his left hand in such way that the r-'p-oove may be directed outwards and downwards, and its convexity ^pressed against the lower edge of the pubic arch, and passes on it i ■ common bistoury, or the knife used in the lateral operation, or ven a gorget with the edge directed downwards and outwards, be- i ween the vagina and the ascending branch of the haunch-bone, up i o the closed end of the staff. In withdrawing the bistoury, its point unst be sunk for the purpose of enlarging the cut. |j If Frere Come’s lithotome be used, it must be introduced closed i through the urethra into the bladder, after setting it at a number r. corresponding to the size of the stone, pressed against the pubic arch, I ina withdrawn, whilst the blade is projected, in such direction that ■ ^ret'lra and neck of the bladder may be divided obliquely down- I- rp.rf+S» an • outwarc,s> as when the bistoury is employed. The forceps j hen introduced on the finger or on a gorget, and the stone I* -rWn according to the rules already laid down. n t ns mode of operating there is danger of wounding the vagina,