INTRODUCTION 430 f(I) I prefer the catheter with a very open curve, indeed with the point thrown ou rather beyond the quadrant of the circle, as recommended by Chelius, so as to forn with the stem, a curve represented by the long quadrant of an oval, of which the loiq diameter is double that of the short one. Most Surgeons have a peculiar curve of thei own, and those who have much practice in passing a catheter, soon find out tha with which they are most dexterous. f‘D The thickness of the walls of the catheter is a matter of great importance because unless sufficiently stout they are continually broken in the Surgeon s alteratioi of the curve to suit the particular case which is often requisite; and because, in passim the instrument, if it meet with much obstacle it is liable to be broken in the urethra, o even in the bladder. Catheters, as commonly made, are far too slight.—J. b. b.J 1815 The introduction of a catheter ( Catlieterismus, Lat.; Einfuhruiu des Katheters, Germ. ; Catheterisme, Fr.) is an operation requiring dexte rity and practice, and is not unfrequently accompanied with very grea difficulty It is best divided into three stages. In the first stage, thi catheter passes through that part of the urethra contained in the spongv body The Surgeon grasps the penis behind the glans, with the thuml and forefinger of the left hand, without compressing the urethra. With the thumb, the fore and middle finger of the right hand he holds thti unoer end of the catheter smeared with oil or lard, and introduces it point, whilst the handle is towards the navel, into the opening of* urethra, and then drawing the penis up with the left hand, he pushes lh* catheter down towards the perinceum. In the second stage, in which th< instrument passes through the membranous part of the urethra, when the beak of the catheter has got beneath the arch of the pubes, thes- is let sro, and the handle of the instrument being sunk slowly, and but i little, ~the catheter is now again pushed somewhat forwardsandu of6thiTbladder,’ is the inclination towards the thigljs Frst and™ the”catheter pushed slowly forwards into the bladder. W lien tb< beak has entered the orifice of the bladder, the handle of the catheter i- at last sunk completely between the thighs. It is most convenient for mtfentTlie onhis back during the introduction of the catheter, but h C e ther sit or stand ; and, not unfrequently, it is more ruud.ly ’ P-* hr one posture than the other. The elastic catheter, properly cursed may be used either with,or without the iron stnette. . bs Iii the so called tour de mahre the handle of the and with its convexity upwards, introduced into the urethr . turo, am reached the pubes, the handle is carried round towar s ' th ‘ catheter must then sunk. This handling is objectionable. In very Stout persons t at first, be introduced somewhat on one side. f . . t0 lg07 aw [For other observations in regard to passing the catheter, le e P nar 1811, and their notes.—J. F. S.] , *l.rM 1 1816. The introduction of the straight catheter requires the sai ^ stasres as have been just described. The patient must kneel on the i ^ the bed, with his thighs widely separated, mUi Ae uppw I ,f,L. t the bed, with his thighs widely separate, a..u « y , . th( body bent forwards, or he may stand or sit upon the edge o lef same posture. The operator sits or kneels before him, and wit, elbow upon the knee of the same side, grasps both ^*0/:'tJduceswi,l his left hand supine, draws it towards him horizontally an ^ ^ Q drill his left hand supine, draws 11 ...... with a drill the right hand a straight catheter of proper size, carrying he tbel ing motion directly horizontal till it reach the arch of with th< draws the penis still more forwards, and sinks it to0 dg th< catheter, till it has made a right angie without inc mmg * The patient then bows himself consideramy perinceum.