643 LITHECTASY. ariana, and already mentioned, (p. 571,) and also by the natural escape of stones rough the dilatation of the short urethra of women. He, therefore, proposed the tablisliment of a perinatal fistula, so that, as near as might be, the opportunity for the ■ape of a stone from the male bladder, should be similar to that from the female adder, in both cases requiring little more than the dilatation of the neck of the bladder. *3 then put the question, “ Whether it be not possible to dilate the artificial fistula in [e perinamm of males, and the urethra in females, with sponge or gentian tents, gra- ally increased for some time to such a width that we may easily pass a pair of •ceps into the bladder, with which the stone, when small, may be extracted, and when i-ge or of an irregular figure, broke, and the pieces extracted gradually, and at different les, when they cannot be extracted at once, without fatiguing the patient too much,” _L 320,) and after discussing the subject, he concludes:—“ Therefore, artificial fistulas in k des, and the urethra in females, may be dilated so as to extract any stone, without cut- r a ig the body of the bladder, or lacerating any of the parts.” (p. 322.) It does not appear, ;: lugh Douglas proposed, that he ever practised this method, and like many other $ jposals, it was lost sight sight of for many years; still, however, it is his operation, ;i iugh Dr. N. Arnott (a) says, “that the means proposed by Douglas are inade- I jte ” for its performance ; forgetting however to mention that Douglas had honestly k erred to a case of Collet’s (b), in which a perinseal fistula after lithotomy had A en successfully dilated with sponge tent, as in Douglas’s proposed operation. 1* b‘ 1819, however, Collet’s plan was suggested and practised by Dr. Arnott (c), | a ?ase under the care of Astley Cooper, for a recto-vesical fistula of nine months’ W nding, after an unsuccessful operation for the stone, in which the rectum had been •a tunded, and the stone left in the bladder. For the relief of this fistula, Astley Cooper e ide an opening into the urethra, from the perinceum, and introducing a female * dieter, immediately struck a stone. This not being expected to be large, Astley 34-oper yielded to Arnott’s proposal of dilating the passage from the perinceum into $ : bladder with his fluid-dilator instead of sponge tent; after the employment of which, ; • thirty hours, the passage from the perinceum to the bladder was enlarged to three- arters of an inch in diameter, and Cooper then introduced a pair of stone-forceps, t 1 extracted a stone as large as a moderate-sized walnut. a Stimulated by Willis’s enthusiastic expectations, Elliott of Carlisle (d) performed ft s operation in July, 1842, on a lad of seventeen, with the variation of making the I rand larger than recommended by Willis. “The different steps in the operation m re precisely the same as in lithotomy, until the prostate and membranous part of the » Him were exposed. The latter was opened close to the prostate, and divided cau- t ; usly towards the bulb by carrying the knife along the groove of the staff till an I :°lng was made of sufficient size. The staff was then withdrawn, and the point of ? forefinger of the left hand served as a guide for the introduction of the dilator, t icp, having been previously well greased, was passed along without difficulty. A ! ,iJarm feru/n mucilage was next slowly injected into the instrument, until the patient I Ij J complained of the feeling of distension. On removing him from the table to Ded he complained of a strong inclination to make water, which was found to arise a m the dilating part of the instrument having slipped into the bladder. It was ptied, partially withdrawn, and, when fairly within the neck of the bladder, again . tended. Another opiate was given, one having been given before the operation. In I *our* tlme a ^uw teaspoonfuls of the mucilage were again thrown into the dilator i the patient complained. The urine had passed freely along that part of the tube I a* “mmun.cated with the bladder.” He went on well; no further injection was ■ • s given ’"a * thm’dd 6 ^ tfo”owl?6 daJ he was a Httle uneasy, and another opiate uA he end of twenty-flve hours Elliott « emptied the dilator and with- I diatelv tIme Pu-Tg h’Scleft !?refulScr along il int0 the W^der. He im- abouff!mr ■ .whlchTwas of small and in sliape resembled a coffee bean, itwir toar.t,n!es lts,s,ze- 14 was removed with the scoop and finger,” (p. 137 1 and j "?his r'm“rk'»,he ELL,oTTld;i,,?thfdnK ■ ' ise irrit-uinn 1 .’ntery.als’ saJ a quarter of an hour at a time, as less likely to • .ied!’^ (p 139 x lf ^continued for a period of thirty or forty hours, as has been men- sixtv ffi°tbl’n°f Malton> Yorkshire (e), performed the second lithectasy on a man 3 the autumn of tbesame year, and made “ an opening a few lines in extent embranous part of the urethra;’ but could not introduce the dilator, evidently (a) Lancet, 1842-43 ; vol. ii. p. 612. (rf) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. lix. p. 135. (/•) London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxiv. i>. 77 1813-44. * 2 T 2 1 ;) Traite dc la Taille. to K* different modea of extracting 1? 8v£ the Bladder> by Arnott. London,