425 FROM CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. “ The treatment of retention of urine from diseased prostate,” observes Brodte, “ is 10 of the most important subjects in Surgery. The patient suffers miserably ; his life at stake; he lives or dies according to the skill which you are able to exercise in his „our, The case is altogether different from one of retention of urine from stricture, ugies are of no service; even if you pass one into the bladder, no urine follows ; the i mrts collapse and close as the bougie is withdrawn.” (p. 174.) Astley Cooper lays down that when “ called upon to relieve retention from enlarged estate, by the introduction of a catheter, the instrument should be fourteen inches in e«th, and a quarter of an inch in diameter. In consequence of the pressure within, broad instrument will answer better than a narrow one, for being bulbous at the end will readily ride over the enlargement. When introducing the catheter, you will meet ith no difficulty' until you reach the curve which the enlargement of the gland has •oduced in the urethra; the handle of the instrument is to be here slightly raised, for e purpose of insinuating the point through the curved part. Having passed this you e then to depress the handle completely between the thighs, so as to occasion the point r* the instrument immediately to rise perpendicularly above the pubes. * * * This ill cause the point to enter the bladder between the pubes and enlarged, lobe. * * * If it be deemed requisite to leave the catheter in the bladder, I should prefer,” says ooper, “ one of pewter rather than elastic gum, for it can be curved down before the rotum, and by plugging up the end, the patient may move about as he likes, and at any ne he wishes can expel his urine. * * * The pewter catheter should be quite new, d ought not to be worn for a longer period than a fortnight, for the urine acts upon the etal, renders it brittle, and may probably cause the instrument to snap, if the time be bended beyond what I have stated. If there be need of puncturing the bladder for larged prostate, it must be done above the pubes ; but it never need be attempted at all you can perform your duty.” (p. 243-45.) “ In instances where the bladder does not evacuate its contents completely, where ere is a constant accumulation of urine within it, the course you have to pursue,” ys Lawrence, “ is to introduce the catheter regularly once or twice in the four-and- I'enty hours, so as to draw off the stale urine, and to give the bladder the opportunity • recovering its power of contraction; and after following this up for some time, per- ps two or three weeks, you generally find that the evil is removed, and that the patient covers the power of completely emptying the bladder. * * * It is necessary that e catheter should be longer than that which is employed under ordinary circumstances; ve it the length, perhaps, of fourteen inches, curved as already stated, and always use catheter of full size. * * * In such cases where the smallest catheter could not be troduced, I have repeatedly succeeded in introducing an instrument of this size with e greatest ease.” (p. 813.) Brodie “ rarely uses any but a gum catheter. It gives you rather more trouble to urn the use of the gum catheter, and to become dexterous in the management of it, than does to learn the use of the silver catheter. When, however, you have once become miliar with the gum catheter, you will generally prefer it to the other ; and there is ways this advantage in it, that when you have succeeded in introducing it into the adder, it may, if necessary, be allowed to remain there. A gum catheter may be retained the urethra and bladder with very little inconvenience to the patient, which is not the se with a silver catheter.” (p. 175.) if Brodie uses, as did Home, the gum catheter without a wire, as a flexible, or with a $j»ire as an inflexible iustrument; and directs that it should not be mounted’on a small E< xihle straight wire, but on a strong iron stilette, having the curve of a silver B MteJj He beglns Wlth PassinS a sum catheter without a stilette; if it will enter « le bladder, so much the better ; it gives no pain, does not lacerate the urethra, nor pro- r ■ .hemorrhage; it may do all that is required, it can do no harm, even in a t Dugh hand; failure will not render it more difficult to pass another instrument In J.imcult cases indeed it will not succeed, and then the catheter with the iron stilette * = : betnsecL “Y°u ought ,n.ot, t0 use a catheter so large as to give pain ; but for the »st part you will find one which is large enough to fill the urethra, without stretching m°re eas>'of introduction than a smaller one, which approaches to a pointed ZCla T)I e extremity of it is liable to become entangled in the tumor of ►K.vious 1-JwiStl Ctt! 0U?ht ? ,be. considerably curved; the reason of this is ■ithafiXt uT b,e,a[. T,rld’ ’0 introducing the catheter, that it is to be used * erlK L l S 10.uUl be held’ as 11 were> toosdy with the fingers. It will then, r- great measure, find its own wav — : i • Misistnnna if... .. „ , . J in iMuui incrc is me lensi t Uictmv ‘ n,i u°U g.ra8i? 11 finn'y> 11 call only go where you direct it, and it is likely to I’ 1 lacerate the membrane of the urethra, and the substance of the prostate,