FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. 51 f a portion of bowel possessing such feeble powers of resistance to morbid influence uiuot but tend to increase, probably to excite, a disposition to inflammation; which, mush low in degree, is sufficient to destroy its vitality : and it may therefore be fairly ■<nirded as the main agent in the production of gangrene.” With this explanation I uiuot agree; the mischief has been done to the bowel, or at least its foundation is laid, . believe^ before the sac is opened, by the disturbance of the circulation during the rangula'tion, from which the bowel has not power to recover itself; and according as e stagnation of the blood has existed for a shorter or longer time, and to a less or eater'extent, so does the mischief run on subsequently to inflammation and gangrene. J. F. S. ;«in cases in which great depression of the powers is observed to precede the opera- •n,” continues Key, “ death sometimes rapidly takes place without any other obvious use than the exposure of the bowel. The condition of the patient is often found to be inifestly worse after the operation, and stimulants are obliged to be plentifully admi- 1 tered, in order to sustain the sinking powers of life. This may happen without i lamination of the abdominal cavity or gangrene of the bowel; and is attributable solely i the depressing effect of the operation. The pulse, which before the operation was ble, becomes fluttering, and scarcely perceptible; the countenance, which was anxious, [.v bespeaks the approach of death; the skin is covered with a clammy moisture, and , whole frame is seized with a restlessness that gradually ends in the calmness of solution.” (p. 51-4.) Istley Cooper mentions the very remarkable circumstance of tetanus follow- the operation for rupture, on the eighth day, by which the patient was speedily droyed (a).] (n) Above cited, p. 58. trangulatecl Rupture. * Contents. Bowels moved. Result. Eight inches gut only, bright and turgid, thickened. Freely within an hour. Cured. Sac divided by vertical septum, omentum be- fore, gut behind ; two inches gut, bright cho- colate-coloured. After 24 hours free mo- tion from repeated clysters; the bowels continued to be moved, but though assisted with stimulants and nourishment, he gra- dually sunk. Died on ninth day ; in- testine at mouth of sac still dark-coloured, little inflammation. Half yard of intestine, front half of which chocolate and thick- ened, other unaltered ; also large mass of omentum. A slight motion from clysters after 24 hours ; after same interval, and castor oil and clyster, bowels moved freely. Cured (stricture not tight.) Much adhering omen- him, almost schirrous; a small portion of colon healthy. In eight hours after two clysters some scybola came away. Next morning he had culo- mcl aud castor oil, nnd the bowels were freely moved. Cured (stricture none, I but without dilating.) Bit of ommtum, size of a walnut, in little sac ; four inches choc, in- shining, but slightly adherent, nnd much matted omen- tum in large sac. An hour after, the bowelB very freely opened, anu again three hours after. Cured (stricture not very r tight.) Three inches chocolate, with a little patch «.f adhesive; no omen- tum. Within eight hours after twice castor oil, very copious motions. Cured (stricture very C tight.) 'en demess. Additional Remarks. little, or rupture if much, with •i dial pain and j&i »h from first Bunich continued Kj d day after ope- » and pain in e eased. It. ire, probably ( ttempts at re- ture a little . ft ly ; has had throughout j F ; tendemenH • *cc<md day. ><dly nor m Large quantity of fat between cremaster and sac. 1 wounded intestine in open- ing sac with knife. minrsh size of rupture by aj>- plication of ice, but without avail. The dresser had also given tartar emetic. The omentum was left. The gut came down again on ninth day, in getting out of bed, but slowly returned. before oueration without be- nefit. Dilated the stricture und left the gut, but tore and cu t off omentum. Pro- bably in th’B case the colon, together with its peritoneal connexion to the iliac pit, descended, but 1 did not notice this at the operation. lie larger piece of omentum was cut off. eued. P^7^b?SreiumraUtcontin^0b8-"ei<1 that f°r H,ne "hole ycar 1 hn<1 not 11 ctis anU conlinue a similar one. as I am convinced of the advantage whtl 0-- case. Subse- aclvantage which accrues E 2