944 EXARTICULATION OP THE FOOT 2776. In the circular cut., according to Velpeau, the leg being stretched out, a circular cut, three or four fingers’ breadth below the knee<j cap, divides the skin, which is then dissected up and turned back, and whils • the thigh is grasped with the left hand, and a little bent, the ligaments arc divided from before backwards, and the muscles and vessels lying behindi are cut through at a stroke. After the vessels are tied, the wound ii. brought together vertically, or horizontally. Velpeau has twice operated in this way successfully, and has given up the methoo which he formerly recommended. According to Cornuau, it is less advantageous te. divide the soft parts by a circular cut at the edge of the skin, after it has been turnee hack, and then by dividing the lateral ligaments, to penetrate into the joint. Equally! so is the oval cut after Baudens’ method ; he makes a mark with a pen from the spine of the shin-bone three fingers’ breadth below the ligament of the knee-cap, which h< carries obliquely backwards, and from below upwards, towards the knee-cap, and ends: only two fingers’ breadth below a line corresponding to the ligament of the knee-cap; An assistant draws the skin of the knee upwards, the operator makes a cut along the marked line of the oval, the skin is then drawn back on the joint, and this, together with the aponeurosis and tendons, cut through, and the lips of the wound united length-: wise. If the knee-cap be diseased, the skin is to be separated from it, and itself from the j tendon of the m. rectus and the capsular ligament, which is better than making a /\ shaped cut through the skin, as recommended by Brasdor. I Exarticulation of the Ankle-Joint, proposed by Brasdor and others, and entirely rejected by most Surgeons, but in modern times recommended by Lisfranc, Max-:! gaigne, Baudens, and Jaeger, is in every respect inferior to amputation through the i leg, as it is always more difficult and dangerous, and always forms a bad stump, and unfitting for the application of an artificial foot. [H.*—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FOOT AT THE ANKLE. (Exarticulatio Pedis, Lat.; Ahldsung des Fusses im Fussgelenke, Germ.; Desarticula- K tion du Pied, Fr.) This operation was long since performed successfully in France, once by' Sedillier, de Lavall, and Brasdor ; but seems to have been given up from a notion that the projections of the ankles below the base of the shin- bone would prevent the scar bearing the weight of the foot, notwithstand- ing Brasdor had distinctly stated that these processes soon became blunted, that the ends of the bones rounded, and that there was plenty ot« skin to cover a great part of the wound. J Velpeau (a) performs this operation by making two semilunar aps skin, one upon the instep, and the other above the heel, twelve or fifteen lines before and behind the joint, and meeting to form another semilunar cut on each side about an inch below the ankles. The tendons and ftga ■ ments are then to be divided as close as possible to the joint; after " 11. . the astragalus is easily removed from its mortise, and with it the w 1 foot. The flaps are brought together transversely, so that the angi enclose the points of the ankles. . . Baudens’ operation differs from Velpeau’s in a single flap being nia bv carrying a knife down to the bone, from the insertion of the Achilles tendon behind the heel, on each margin of tl.e sole of the foot, nearly as forwards as the crease of the toes, and these are connected by a trans ^ cut of a semicircular form like a gaiter across the whole dorsal suria the foot which must descend a little lower on the inner than on the edge, to’avoid including a small bundle of muscular fibres belonging (a) Nouveaux Elemons de Medecine Operatoire, vol. ii. p. 497. 1S32.