[ 308 ] Second Section.—OF UNNATURAL COHERENCE IN PARTICULAR. f. '• T. -OF THE UNION OF THE FINGERS AND OF THE TOES. T 4 Earle, Henry, On Contractions after Burns or extensive Ulcerations; in MedJOurj li Trans., vol. v. vOl. Y. Further Observations on Contractions succeeding to Ulceration of the Skin, h ’V,;- Trant vnl. vii. d Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii 1LU. Beck, K. J., Ueber die angeborne Verwachsung der Finger. Freiburg, 1819. 8vo. ; Seerig Ueber die angeborne Verwachsung der Finger und Zehen, und Ueberzah h derselben! Breslau. 4to; with two lithographed plates. 1560. The union of the fingers with each other has different degree-*? of intensity and extent, and is either congenital or accidental, especially#- after burning the fingers. The congenital union arises, first, from bridge i of skin ; second, from connexions of skin and flesh ; and, third, from run™W toother of bone. The first kind of union is the most frequent. TW natural formation of the finger may also be variously degenerated in thqM 1561. The single mode of getting rid of these deformities consists, ttij. dividing the union, which is alone contra-indicated, when the soft parts o>,l. the hand are grown together in an unshapely mass (1), and the bonesjj the finders so run together, that there is scarcely any connexion by joints 11 Diseased condition of the skinny covering of the ill-formed Wdl highly scrofulous condition of the constitution, still existing niflanuflia O ' i .a;_ • r\f fV»ck rkavfv TBflV 1*611(167 tb IS that time,rexcept for very special reasons, it should not be deferred Wji fact however, that even after the operation-wound has been perfeM* healed, the fingers will again grow together, which depends on deficiency of the skin, and its production not corresponding with the fons*| tion and growth of the finger, partly on the incompletely dividedjmo . stretching on with the enlargement of the finger, is of the are^ 3 portance°and must, if the union of growth do.not prevent, seem mostpj perly to put off the operation, till the complete development of the fin,, { . The painfulness of the operation, as well as the ensuing i»flamm JJJ action, depend on the degree and extent of the union on which ac ^ only one hand should be operated on at once, and the other a distant time. IS Lclll L Lillie;. , 1 (1) In a case in which the hands of a child presented only two lumps ^ a single undivided nail, five movable fingers were made, by cutting throug mon cartilaginous mass (h). 1562. The result of the operation is often unsatisfactory, 33 rcu"^? the divided parts will occur, under the most careful treatment. ^ to be especially feared at that period when the tog& to be especially feared at that periott wnen tne ‘t(^th the hinder angle of the wound, and the edges of tlm wound dra o ^ from both thia vnrimis modes of operation proposed. [ me VVUUI1U, aim MIC — To prevent this, various modes of operation na 1563. In a simple, merely skinny union, after properly fixing the h 1 n #V 5. (a) Seerio, above cited. (ft) Lkroux ; Journal de Med., vol. xiv* P* P