GROWING TOGETHER 310 is rarely possible, as the skin is most commonly hard, callous, morbidly changed, and the flap commonly dies (a). Krimer (5) has, however, given some satisfactory reports of this operation. 1566. If the reunion of the fingers cannot be prevented, the operation must be repeated, but the inflammatory reaction and plastic activity must have completely subsided. II -OF GROWING TOGETHER OF THE JOINT ENDS OF BONES, ANCHYLOSIS (c). Muller, Diss. de Anchylosi. Lugd. Batav., 1707. Van Doeveren, Diss. de Anchylosi. Lugd. Batav., 1783. Murray, Diss. de Anchylosi. Upsal, 1787. Delpech, Precis Elementaire, vol. i. Barton, On the Treatment of Anchylosis, etc. Philadelphia, 1827. Lacroix, De 1' Anchylose; in Annales de 1’Anatomie et de la Physiologie pathologiqua,* publ. par Pigne, 1843. 1567. Every intimate union of two bones, which naturally are con- < nected together in a joint, produces complete loss of motion in the joint* (Anchylosis, Lat. ; Gelenksteifigheit, Germ.; Anhylose, hr.) Anchylosis is commonly divided into true and false. Under the is' C0“P£ hended the loss of motion in a joint, depending on the union of the joint-surfaces, undate the hitter that condition, in which the movements of the joint are only more orles^ interfered’with, as is observed in long-continued inflammation of join ts, in swelling of w the ligaments n tumours near the joints, in continued contraction of the muscles, and . the ligaments, in tumours ne J > incorrect and objectionable, because, in , ents, m tumours near me m , : . . ,, * • the like. This division is, to a certain extent, incorrect and objectionable, beca , the so-called false anchylosis, the hindrance of motion is only to be considered as ». me so caneu iai J „,ioi tcLIpL the nlan of treatment must be the so-called false anchylosis, the hindrance of motion is only to ne consiuereu « . symptom of the disease, towards the removal of which the plan of treatment must be directed? and the union of the joint-ends of the bones is alone to be considered as the. actual disease. 1568. The growing together of the joint-surfaces may be produced in ; various ways. It is usually consequent on inflammation of the parts com* posing the joint, especially when of some standing, and when the joint has been lone at rest. If the inflammation go on to suppuration, and the cartilaginous surfaces be destroyed, if there be carious destruction of the bones, granulations may form, which, by shooting into each other, may become the means of union. Long-continued immobility of j may also cause an union of the surfaces. Although this is veij' rare. a may be readily distinguished, from the restrained motion which is con sequent on habitual contraction of the muscles, on swelhng of the 1 ga ments and the like, observed after dislocation, and after the treating of fractures, and may be got rid of by motion, softening rubbings and so on it is, however indisputable ; although the ordinary explanation ^ of’it, from want of synovia, or comparison of it with the obliteration of blood vessels, when the circulation is suppressed, is insufficient (')■ 1569. According to the sort of union of the joint-surfaces p d and its duration, is the nature of the connecting substance. It * *“ j, soft and yielding, frequently lengthening into ligament-like ban , o, converted into an actual bony mass by the deposition of plio-p Walthkr, Ph. P, Ueber die angebomen (.) All the additions wluch seemeito me W vval * T nnrlsrhut 1814. fol. sary, have been already made at p* r ;0Jni vol. xiii. gangAnchylosis as a termmabon rf J- P- 602> (rf) Delpech ; above cited, p. 611.