EXARTICULATION OF THE THIGH, 934 and the nature of the injury. The several modes of operation may be disposed under the following heads—a. the circular cut; b. the flap cut, with one or two flaps; c. the oval cut. a. The Circular Cut. 2743. Here belong the modes of Abernethy, Veitch, Kerr, and Graeff, 2744. According to Abernethy («), the Surgeon standing on the outer side of the limb, the femoral artery being compressed by the fingers upon the pubic bone, makes, an inch below the joint, two successive circular cuts, by which he divides the muscles from tiie great and little trochanter, cuts into the capsule, dislocates the head and divides the round ligament. 2745. Veitch (5) proposed making the amputation of the thigh below the joint in the common way with the circular cut, and sawing through the bone two inches below the cut. After the arteries have been tied, the patient is to be placed on his side and a vertical cut made from the great trochanter to the wound, the muscles to be separated on the outside of the thigh, the joint opened and the bone disjointed. Cole’s (c) method, who amputated through the trochanter major and removed the neck and head, corresponds with this. Jaeger proceeded in the same way in his suc- cessful case, in which, whilst amputating through the upper third of the thigh with an external flap, he noticed the caries extending higher between the lamella■, again sawed off the bone two or three inches higher, and even then finding the disease extending up to the trochanter, he merely extended the upper angle of the flap on the fore and outer side two inches upwards, cut into the capsule without any great difficulty, then through the round ligament and easily removed the bone. The stump had everywhere flesh to spare which was however no evil, and after the cure it was six inches long, felt hard as if the bone were still remaining in it, and could in some degree be drawn inwards. 2746. Kerr (d) having first bent the thigh at a right angle with the trunk, made a cut through the skin, from behind the top of the trochanter obliquely backwards and downwards to the inside of the thigh, and from thence obliquely upwards to within two inches from the femoral artery; then a second beginning at the same place as the former, but carried in an opposite direction over the upper extremity of the trochanter, and from thence obliquely forwards and downwards to within the same distance ot the vessel as in the former cut. He then cut through the muscles in the direction of the skin cuts, and separated the bone from the joint; graspea firmly the flap still undivided, and containing the artery, betwixt the fingers and thumb of his left hand, his fingers on the skin side of it, ana his thumb on the muscular side, cut it through about four inches ie o the inguinal ligament, and tied the artery. I Kerr states further that the compression was so complete “ as to prevent the ° a single drop of blood, and the hsemorrhage from the other arteries was full as incon siderable as in any other amputation of the thigh. * * * TTie bgature fell off » the fourth or fifth dressing.” (p. 341.) In Harden’s letter it is further sitated, th “ two other small arteries only were taken up, and the blood lost during the ojttrafi was very trifling. The large artery was tied immediately above a branch gon g which I think is called the profunda. Perhaps the operation could not he done so much ease where the ligaments of the joint had not been previously destroyed, ss was the case here.”] . i 1 • the 2747. According to Graefe’s (<?) experiments on the dead d«Ji ^ femoral avtery should be compressed with a roller, and 1 ipelle (a) Lectures, on authority of S. Cooper. (ilEdlnburgli Medical and Surgical Journal, <§ ^„t^A&&«ro»ererGlicdm^". VOl. ill. p. lw. loVt. , (r) Samuel Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, p $3. p. 11/.