CLUB-FOOT. 175 Delpech, Considerations sur ladiflormiteappeleePied-bots; in Clinique Chirurgicale le Montpellier, p. 147. Held, Charles, Dissertation sur le Pied-bot. Strasbourg, 1836. Little, W. J., Symbol® ad talipedem varum cognoscendum. Berlin, 1837. Ibid., A Treatise on the Nature of Club-foot, and analogous Distortions, including heir treatment, both with and without surgical operations; illustrated by a series of •ases, and numerous practical instructions. London and Leipzig, 1839. 8vo. Stromeyer, L., above cited. Scoutetten, H., Memoire sur la Cure radicale des Pied-bots. Paris, 1838; with )lates. Bouvier, Memoire sin- la Section du Tendon d’AcHiLLE, dans le traitement des Pied- ;>ots. Paris, 1838. Dieffenbach, above cited, p. 73. Bonnet, above cited. Phillips, above cited. Duval, V., Traite pratique du Pied-bot. Paris, 1839. 1370. Club-foot is that deformity in which the foot is so twisted on its |ong axis, that its inner edge is raised, the outer turned downwards, and he sole of the foot with its back brought more or less vertical. The toes re strongly bent, the back of the foot more convex, the sole more oncave, and the heel raised, and inclined inwards, so that it does not ouch the ground. The whole foot is unnaturally turned inwards. Jjpon the back (instep) of the foot, a considerable prominence is formed y the head of the astragalus; the Achilles’ tendon is much stretched. ijjValking is more or less interfered with; the patient cannot tread upon the Sole of his foot, but only on the middle of its outer edge, and, often only n the outer part of the back of the foot, where commonly a large cal- sity or mucous bag is enlarged or newly formed. The patient is never ble to bend his foot by muscular power ; but, in making the attempt, e rather adducts the foot already inclined inwards. 1371. Club-foot has various degrees. When slight, the curved foot be brought back to its natural position, and the prominence on s back then disappears ; but the foot again treads in its unnatural posture hen walking is attempted. In the higher degrees, the foot can never e at once brought to its natural position, and often can scarcely be oved in that direction. In these motions of the foot, the fibres of the . gaslrocnemii and tibialis anticus, and the plantar aponeurosis, which I-e always more or less stretched, oppose the straightening of the foot. 1372. This malformation, which has been noticed as hereditary, is ther congenital, or occurs subsequently. In the former case, which is le most common, the club-foot arises as consequence of arrested develop- tent; of a continuing, excessive activity of the bending muscles of the >ot, as has been often observed in a three months’ foetus; or as conse- uence of peculiar position of the foot during pregnancy, and therewith J lso deficient innervation depending on diseased activity of the brain, and a ervous system. After birth club-foot may be developed by wounds, by 4 dsy of muscles, by spasm or neuralgia, and if the foot have been kept a >ng while in a particular posture by an ulcer, or any other painful cir- | imstance, by which shortening of certain muscles is produced. The 'sturhed antagonism of muscles (contraction of those attached to the sole, to the inner edire. extension nf tlmoo +i,„ i i_ i r. w< ie to the inner edge, extension of those to the outer edge, and back of ipr£.°f-\i 18 1 e special cause of this malformation ; all the changes which lerewith occur in the ligaments and bones are merely secondary symptoms.