25 OF REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. beneath the hernial opening on the scrotum, and then the scrotum in front of it is to be thrust along the spermatic cord as deeply as possible into the inguinal canal. In this blind sac the finger is to remain, and the skin is to be thrust as far as possible towards the outer wall of the inguinal canal. A curved needle, with two cutting edges, and with a handle, and its eye armed with a double thread, is then to be introduced, on the palmar surface of the forefinger, to the bottom of the ensheathing, and whilst the handle of the needle is depressed, the needle itself, its convex surface resting on the palmar surface of the finger, is to be thrust, whilst an assistant presses the external skin against its point, from behind, forwards through the front of the ensheathed part of the scrotum, and the front wall of the inguinal canal, so that the needle projects some lines above the inguinal ring. The one end of the thread is now to be drawn out, and given to an assistant, the left finger still remaining in the ensheathing. The needle, in the eye of which the other end of the thread remains, Is now again to be passed upon the finger, at some lines’ distance from the former stitch, thrust through externally, and the thread withdrawn from it. After the removal of the needle, the threads are to be divided, and a cylinder of plaster placed between them, upon which they are to be tied, and the ensheathed part of the scrotum is firmly retained in its place If the entrance and canal of the rupture be much enlarged, two other stitches must be applied; but in general, one is sufficient. The sac formed by the ensheathed skin, is to be then pencilled with caustic liquor ammonice, to excite inflammation, the part operated on covered with a pad, spread with cerate, and covered with a compress, and the patient put to bed in such position, that the rump and the head are somewhat raised and the thighs drawn up. In all cases phlegmon follows, which spreads oyer the whole extent of the stitches, and runs into suppuration, the pus discharges itself through the stitches, along the threads, which, at the same time, also act as guides to it. If the adhesion have taken place in from three to five days, the stitches may be removed. Towards the fitteenth or twentieth day, the suppuration ceases, the ensheathed skin forms a plug, which externally appears like a swelling, but gradually subsides. The patient must, for four weeks, observe the supine posture7 and the treatment must be conducted according to the inflammatory WchlCl\may corae,on- Signokoni (a) thrusts up the skin, like afe,S^iaigei: int° 6 SaC °f the rupture’ and fixes ]t by means of a female catheter, then pierces it with three long hare-lip needles four The needle1™111 °-her’ “•' twists around each an Shaped thread, ffirust un fnto'tl ^ “ T ^ f dayS' WdTZEa <*) ^ains the skin nar f w ,i l thein8ymal cunal, by means of a cylinder, on the under canal I f a plate which fits the outer surface of the inguinal waif afl h™ m fT' thr0U^ the uPper V* of the cylinder, out- , and brought out by an opening of the external plate. Proposal, according to the experiment with one wounfrnd^he orfpnef^^ mouth of the sac were expanded followed; this treatment micht akn^nnlS3f tirust *nt° the helly, the radical cure also as the reduction of the Lirl l PP ^ t0 r'0 attainmcnt of the radical cure, as well [(1) BmvNSBv Coorr *'¥ 'dccoJd™S to Hummf.i. and Stephens. Pono,a"aean0 Medic. do Bologna, 1836 Dec Frobivp s neue Notizen, vol. ii. p. 070 ’ pt^ Organon fiir (liegesammte Heilkunde, vol. i (.c) Guy's Hospital KeporU.Oct., 1810,p. 270-75.