IN GENERAL. 307 fcarated by careful dissection from the parts beneath, or the cellular lembrane. If the skin in the neighbourhood of the wound be yielding, ■3 edges of the wound, if it be not of very great extent, must be set free far, that they may be united with the interrupted, or with the twisted j ;ure. Although the edges of the wound be thus much stretched, and the a; n also in the subsequent healing be still so, yet in a short time it yields, 1 d all deformity disappears. When, as is commonly the case, this union ij impossible, the wound must be treated as one suppurating, and retained ; a proper apparatus in its straight posture. For the purpose of making i> scar sufficiently broad, frequent touching with lunar caustic must a resorted to. I have, however, always found that, in consequence, •respondent condition of the scar is produced, that is, the tough, knotty ojection can be prevented ; but the special contraction of the edges the skin towards the centre is encouraged. In all cases, therefore, in ich I wish to form a broad scar, I only cover the suppurating parts :h softening poultices or washes, and but rarely use caustic. When ! scarring goes on tediously, there is always least disposition to contract, 1 the easier is it to produce a broad scar. If the scar project in knots 9 1 thereby be disfiguring, it must either be removed with the knife held cfrom its base, and the wound healed up in the usual way ; or it must cut completely out, and treated according to circumstances, after the t )ve-mentioned rules. >r )n the different modes of treating deformed scars, compare j.JECK; in Heidelb. klinisch. Annalen, vol. v. p. 213. B)upuytren ; in his Lemons Orales de Clinique Ckirurg., vol. ii. p. 1. £l558. The narrowing and closure of the outlets require, according to a ir several causes, a different treatment. In spasmodic contraction, both (t al and general, corresponding antispasmodic remedies must be employed, tithe narrowing result from an organic change of the mucous membrane, f-must be specially ascertained whether, and what is the cause of the animation, which must be met with corresponding treatment. Should 6 3, however, not be sufficient to get rid of the narrowing, the employ- i' nt of mechanical means, which gradually widen the outlet, is required ; i the removal of the hardened part of the mucous membrane must be ■i empted with the knife, with caustic, and the like. In these various cdesof treatment, it must always be remembered, that should the natural ibre of the outlet be restored, the mucous membrane has always a mliar disposition to reproduce the narrowing. 1559. The cure of imperforation is more or less difficult, in proportion ■the seat of the closure is more or less deep, and depends on a membrane, .'■a fleshy mass. The closed part must be cut into, and its reunion pre- • ited by the introduction of mechanical bodies. In closure of an outlet 'membrane, if the latter be thrust down, in a flask-like form, by the i lection of the excreted matters, the division is easy, and the skin must ’divided with a crucial cut. But if the union be intimate and fleshy, lvision is more difficult, and so much more so, in proportion to the atness of its extent; it must always be made in the middle line of the on. It there be scarce any trace of the external opening of the outlet, cut nmst be made in the direction in which it should open, and the let there sought for. x 2