85 STOMACH RUPTURE, so called. taken, the omentum, the transverse arch of the colon, and some small intestines pro- truded through the wound ; they were returned with difficulty, and having been retained by the uninterrupted suture the case did well, and no rupture followed, (p. 584.) (3) Of the latter kind, in which a portion of the entire abdominal wall seems to yield, various instances are mentioned. Richter describes a broad swelling, as large as a woman’s breast, iu each groin of the same person (a). And Siebold describes one equal to a loaf of bread in size, between the cartilages of the ribs and navel (b).] 1237. These ruptures may happen through the whole length of the white line (Hernice linece albce); but they are more commonly observed in that part above the navel, than in that below it. They for the most part contain a portion of omentum; if they be below the navel there usually lies in them a small piece of intestine, frequently the bladder or the womb. They often protrude so near the navel as to be easily mistaken for umbilical rupture. They have always an oval form, and have little prominence in comparison with their size; their neck is always oval, like the cleft through which they have passed; the neck of the sac is always very narrow in comparison to its size. If quite close to the navel-rint, they are distinguishable from true umbilical rupture by the oval shape of the neck of the sac, and by the navel being seen on one or other side of the swelling. Ruptures in the white line happen most frequently in women; their coverings are the same as those of umbilical rupture, ihey are kept up by the same trusses as the latter; but their radical cure is by far more rare than that of umbilical rupture. If there be stran- gulation, and the operation be necessary, it is the same as that for umbilical rupture; only the opening into the belly is best enlarged on one side or other. ° flJ"38' m°m ?6Se ™Ptures of the white line must be distinguished, those swellings formed by a portion of fat which has penetrated through a cleft in the white line, and have great resemblance to the omental SSle and ^ ^ SWellinSS feel ^d, are insenS rlpnl f ’ d pi^uce no inconvenience. If such swelling be acci- pZ 1203a)COmPanie Wlth COliC’ a miStake iS very eas^- "compare nf\f9' Ac thC Upper part of the vvhite line, and on the left side on account o7 ^ bhrthe^suaeirlledt St°maCh RfUptUreS> n uaHy contain a part °f the transverse colon (c) They are often l7‘' “rivtrce,ili,erce|jt!bie’ -—it a* -»Titt dragging at L ftomaoh,'££?^Sernei°of ‘"‘t’ stands up, or when the bodv 1 t r"6 ’"F 1S®n ^ w]ien the patient ** rupture p™t“dt “y TuV^, Hit k:SS al Ike Zi il ’iS tSt t0 -eth„ef to the rupture’are zr i? (c) In Lodeu's Journal, 171)7, voi. i. p. 215.