[ 295 ] II.—OF VARICOCELE. >i Varicocele, Cirsocele. Lat.; Krampfaderbrucli, Saamenaderbruch, Saamenader- geschwulst, Germ.; Varicocele, Fr.) H Richter, Observations chirurgicse, fuse. ii. p. 22. .dim)., Anfangsgriinde der Wundarzneikunde, vol. vi. p. 165. Murray resp. Bonsdore, Dissert, de cirsocele. Upsal, 1784. Leo, F., Dissert, de cirsocele. Landish, 1S26. enedict, Ueber Hydrocele, Sarcocele und Varicocele. Leipzig, 1831. Landouzy, above cited. Fritscui, J., Ueber die Radicalkur der Phlebectasia spermatica interna oder sogenn. sricocele, u. s. w. Freiburg, 1839. 1534. Varicocele or Cirsocele is a varicose expansion of the veins of e spermatic cord, and in a more advanced state of those also of the epidi- tmis and testicle. The disease always commences in the spermatic cord, d generally makes itself known by a heavy, often smart pain, which 3tn time to time darts to the testicle and loins; the ailment, however, aquently develops itself without any inconvenience. An irregular elling, consisting of several threads, is felt along the course of the ermatic cord, which diminishes on slight compression. In proportion the swelling gradually increases, it approaches nearer the testicle, which larges, and becomes heavier ; by degrees the varicose condition extends the epididymis, and thence to the testicle itself, which is loosened into soft, doughy mass, and presents only a convolution of expanded vessels, obably simultaneous thickening of their walls, and of the cellular tissue nnecting them. The purse also is expanded, and the patient feels a mblesome or painful weight in the testicle, which sensation extends to e loins, especially when it has existed a long time. The characteristic *ns of varicocele are the ready disappearance of the swelling on com- ession, its quick reappearance when the pressure is withdrawn, as well its increase on long-continued standing. As these appearances belong ruptures, and as in a large varicocele the swelling enters the abdominal ig. by which it is enclosed, and its condition, when touched, has resem- ance to that of omental rupture, the history of the disease, and the maracters already described (j?ar. 1200) must give the diagnosis. The words cirsocele and varicocele are used with different significations. Many riters apply the former only to a simple swelling of the superficial veins of the purse; it the second to a swelling of the spermatic veins. Some employ varicocele iu this •uble acceptation, and cirscocele as a swelling of the vessels of the epididymis and tes- ,i de: again, others consider both designations as of similar import. According to Breschet (a) spermatocele is a swelling of the spermatic cord, and es- cially of the epididymis, depending on retention of the semen. It begins with a nsation of pressure, distension, and more or less severe pain. If the semen be not iided by pollution or by connexion, inflammation, bursting of the swelling, and actual ■tula ensues, which is characterized by the escape of the semen (1). This affection of the •ididymis is especially observed in gonorrhoea, and the swelling of the testicle ensuing proportion to the decrease and entire cessation of the gonorrhoea, which always begins the epididymis, depends on the retention of the semen. In this spermatocele, connexion, oderate living, avoidance of exciting the imagination, cold washes to the generative •gans, and, in inflammation, the application of leeches are to be recommended. In >tula nothing can be done directly. 1(1) Spermatocele is often a sore nuisance to young people; the testicle become so tceedingly tender that the mere pressure of the dress upon it causes great pain. It is 't generally accompanied, at least in the cases I have seen, with much swelling and I tve never seen it followed by suppuration, as Breschet states. But I have known it («) Oliservationg et Reflexions sur la Fistule spermatique on Spermatocele; in Journal general > Medecme, 18J6, June, p. 348.