16 REDUCTION IN MASS, ordinary cases, the whole tumour, sac, bowel, and all, is thrust up into the belly, and the reduction seemingly effected, but the symptoms of strarigulation still continue, and the patient dies; nor is it till after examination of the body that the cause of the mischief is found out. To this unhappy mode of returning a rupture the French Surgeons have given the names Reduction en bloc, or Reduction en masse. It appears to have been first noticed by Le Dhan (a), in a man with femoral rupture, which had been reduced twenty-four hours after its strangulation. The symptoms, however, did not cease, but continued for a week, at the end of which Le Dr an saw him; but he was too nearly gone to admit of operation, and died the same evening. The Surgeon first in attendance said, “ that at the time of the reduction, he did not hear that noise the intestine generally makes when it enters into the belly; and that the parts composing the rupture passed in a heap under the ligament, like a tennis ball. * * * Upon opening the body we found the hernial sac in the belly, about three inches in depth, and eight in circumference, and within it was contained half an ell of the intestinum jejunum.” (p. 14) Le Dran directs in such case that “ a cut should be made where the rupture was, and that the ring should he dilated or the ligament divided, in order to draw the sac back with the fingers, or a pair of forceps. The sac should then be cut open, its entrance dilated, and the intestine reduced. The sac cannot be far distant, since it is a part of the peritoneum that lines the inside of the pelvis.” (p. 21.) De la Faye (b) and Arnaud (c) confirmed Le Dran’s observation by their own experience ; but the fact was disputed by Loois (d) on account of the presumed connexion of the sac with the surrounding parts, and its large size rendering its return beneath the crural arch very diflicult. Richter (e), however, defended the statement of Le Dran. Another case occurred to Scarpa (/), in a boy of thirteen, in whom the symptoms of strangulation continued after the presumed reduction of the rupture; “ in fact, in the dead body of this boy there was not externally the smallest appearance of tumour in the inguinal region; but on opening the abdomen, it was immediately discovered that the intestine, still strangulated by the neck of the hernial sac, had been pushed up along with the sac beyond the ring, where it was seen rolled up between the aponeurotic parietes of the abdomen and the great sac of the peritoneum.” (p. 49; Engl. Edit. p. 143.) Sabatier, Dupuytren, and Sanson, have also had cases of this kind, and Dupuytren has had not less than six of them (g). It is a very curious circumstance, that although these cases of reduced ruptures in mass, do not seem to have been very rare in France, yet till very lately they have been scarcely ever noticed in this country. Lawrence says :—“ I have never seen a rupture reduced in a mass in this manner in the living body ; nor have I seen any example of such a reduction in pathological collections.” (p. 94.) And Key (b) observes :•—“ 1 have never known this to take place when the hernia has been reduced by the taxis.” (p. 121.) Sir Charles Bell mentions (i) a case of this kind, in which “ a tumour was discovered quite within the muscular walls of the abdomen, which proved to be the strangulated intestine within the peritoneal sac: so that the Surgeon had reduced the sac and the intestine within it; and the stricture which produced the strangulation being in the mouth of the sac, there was no relief; and the patient died.” (p. 926.) In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons there is an example of an inguinal rupture reduced in mass, and pushed between the abdominal and iliac muscles, aud the peritoneum, part lying below the crural arch and extending outwards nearly as far as the external iliac vessels. It forms a considerable swelling inwards towards the cavity of the belly, but is not perceptible externally. The rupture was an old one, and the patient having worn, a truss, was not inconvenienced by it, nor ever had difficulty in returning it, till it became strangulated. Another case occurred in consultation to my friends Green and Callaway, in the year 1836, and to them I am indebted for the following particulars. The patient, it appeared, had several years before, whilst in Spain, had symptoms of strangulation aud a swelling in the scrotum, which having been pushed up completely by a Spanish Surgeon, after a time the symptoms subsided; and he was not further inconvenienced until the attack now to be mentioned. On this occasion there was a swelling on the left side of the scrotum, irreducible but transparent, and accompanied with symptoms of strangulation. No relief was obtained by medicine, aud it was determined to perform (n) Observations de Chirurgie, &c. vol.ii. 12mo. (6)* Operations de Dionis. Fifth Edit., p. 324, note A. Paris, 1716. fcl Traite des Hermes, vol. u. p.%. , (rf) Memoires de l’Acad. de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p' a99' (t) London Medical (tf) Programma, in quo demonstratur hemiam incarcerat&m una cum sacco suo reponi per annu- lum abdominalcm posse, etc. (/) Above cited. (g) Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chirurgie pra- tiques,—Art. Hernie, vol. ix. p. 571. (h) Above cited. Gazette, vol. xiii.