46 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE, any pains have been hitherto taken to form a correct diagnosis of the circumstances under which gangrene has actually taken place; nor am I prepared to say, that, in all cases, such a certainty of diagnosis is attainable; I think, however, that if the attention of the profession were more closely directed to the consideration of the condition pre- ceding gangrene, a near approach might be made, sufficiently accurate to direct the Surgeon’s practice in all cases.” (pp. 103, 104.) I cannot agree with Key that “ the ordinary characters of a completely sphacelated portion of bowel are distinct enough,” for I am quite sure that I have seen them all existing more than once or twice without auy gangrene, hut simply depending on the unwarrantable violence used in attempting to return the rupture. But I do agree with him, that “ it sometimes happens that no such change takes place in the swelling, and then the evidence of gangrene is much more equivocal.” It is by no means infrequent to find an intestine mortified, although the time it has been strangulated is short, and not the slightest external sign leads to the presumption of its condition; as, on the contrary, it now and then happens that the exterior of the swelling is tender, inflamed, doughy, and crackling, from the causes I have just mentioned, and yet the intestine within be healthy, and the patient recover the operation. As regards the loss of elasticity in the swelling, I believe it a very uncertain sign; the intestine may be gangrenous, but the sac full of fluid, as is com- monly the case under such circumstances, and then the elasticity remains. The only sign which I think can be relied on, though even that is doubtful, is when the gangrenous intestine has hurst; then, indeed, although the redness, doughiness, and crackling still remain, the rounding of the swelling subsides, and when a little pressure is made on it a central hollow is produced, and a sense of yielding beneath, very different from the pitting caused by pressure on oedematous cellular tissue. Key mentions a case which occurred to him, in which “ a fetid smell, similar to that described by Sir A. Cooper, was perceptible in the progress of the operation, before the sac was opened.” The patient had a femoral rupture, and “ a fetid smell arose from the swelling as soon as the fascia propria was opened ; it was a smell arising from a decomposed portion of bowel, and the transudation of its faecal contents. The intestine proved to be quite gangrenous, being black, devoid of lustre, and lacerable. Such a. fetor might, I apprehend, be discovered in most cases of sphacelus before the sac is opened; its absence should be ascertained in every case in which the contents of a hernia are to be returned without opening the sac. Before disorganization of the coats of the intestine takes place, transudation of fluid or of fetid air is probably prevented. In incipient gangrene, therefore, it is not to be expected.” (p. 109). One instance of fetid smell before opening the sac occurred to me in the case of strangulated umbilical rupture, (No.X. in my Table,) which had been so for thirty hours ; but on exposing the gut at the operation, part of it was quite natural, and part dark chocolate-coloured, but shiny, and did not seem to be mortified; after death, at forty- eight hours from the operation, it had a dirty clay-coloured appearance, very different from that when first exposed. Admitting that the presence of the fetid smell is always indicative of gangrene, thou°li it has been rarely observed, yet its absence is no certain sign of the healthy state°of the intestine; and, therefore, some still more definite symptoms of this dangerous condition of the gut are requisite before it can be decided with certainty previous to opening the sac. . ^ . Lawrence adheres to the old practice of opening the sac and dividing the stricture from within ; he says:—“ The mode of proceeding thus recommended by Sir AstlkYi Cooper, and executed by him with perfect facility,” which is also fully confirmed by. Key’s practice and experience, “ would be found difficult to those less intimately con- versant with the anatomy of ruptures, and in some cases, probably impracticable. It is - therefore fortunate that we eannot regard it as a matter of much consequence, w hen* the hernial sac has been freely laid open, we cannot suppose that the additional division of its neck will much increase the chance of peritonitis. If the stricture be divided in a proper direction, the epigastric artery is not endangered. Nor can the intestine be. wounded if due care is taken to protect it, by using a deeply-grooved director, or b) > carrying the curved knife along the finger. It may also be carefully held out of tnaj way when the stricture is divided, either by the operator or assistant; or it may DM covered at that time by the handle of a scalpel. Let me observe further, that the* method of dividing the stricture on the outside of the sac does not necessarily secure the protruded parts from injury. In an attempt of this kind recorded by Pelletan\o} the intestine was wounded. The question of eligibility between the ordinary course o proceeding, aud this modification must be determined, like all other practical matters by experience. Unless unequivocal advantage should be found m the latter, I sliouk- (n) Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 102. i l| 1 t I I S I i t ■ i