920 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH TWO FLAPS. and it is decidedly less preferable than the circular or than the ordinary;, flap-cut. It is performed in the following way. The skin is drawn as muehli as possible inwards, the double-edged narrow knife thrust in close on the inner edge of the shin-bone vertically in such direction that the point should come out on the back of the leg, rather outwards, and as close* as possible to the splint-bone. The knife is then carried down along the* bones and forms a flap about three fingers’ breadth in length. Both, corners of the wound are then drawn as far out as possible, the knife placed*; in the upper corner, and being thrust in at the outer edge of the shin-bone,*, so that it runs over the outside of the splint-bone into the lower corner oil the wound, forms a second, corresponding in length to the first flap. The* flaps being now held back by an assistant, the operator cuts through as- in the former manner with the catlin, whatever remains attached to the- bones; applies the double cleft cloth and saws through the bones. The* dressing is to be performed as in the flap-amputation through the thigh.i If the skin be so firmly attached on the front of the shin-bone that it cannot be re- moved as directed, a vertical cut must be made into it upon the shin-bone, and the edges of this cut drawn inwards and outwards. The outer flap may also be first formed by a semi-oval cut, which beginning on the spine of the shin-bone terminates in the middle of the calf, by obliquely penetrating through the skin and muscles, and separates the above-mentioned flap to its base, whilst all the soft parts are carefully detached from the bones. The inner flap is formed by placing the knife in the upper corner of the wound and thrusting it through the lower, and by drawing the knife down from within outwards. [Liston performs his amputations of the leg with two flaps, “ at one of two points according to the circumstances of the patient, the bones being sawn either about mid- way betwixt the knee and ankle, or close to their upper ends. (p. 379.) The ends of the bone when sawn high, are not exposed to pressure, and then there is less occasion for a muscular cushion. A sort of anterior flap should be made below the knee, but it is short and thin; the principal covering is obtained from behind, and the incisions must be so contrived that the edges and surfaces shall correspond. A proper fleshy cushion cannot be got lower than the middle of the leg. * * * When the right linib is the subject of operation, the point of the knife having been entered on the outside behind the fibula, is drawn upwards along the posterior border of that bone, with a gentle sawing motion for about a couple ot inches, the direction of the incision is then changed, the knife being drawn across the fore part of the limb, in a slightly curved direction, the convexity pointing towards the foot; this incision terminates on the inner side of the limb, and from this point the knife is pushed behind the bones and made to emerge near the top of the first incision, the flap is then completed. All this is done smoothly and continuously without once raising the knife from the limb. _ T be inter- osseous muscular and ligamentous substances are cut; the anterior flap is drawn bac , and its cellular connexions slightly divided ; both are held out of the way by the han s of the assistant, and the separation completed with the saw. By proceeding thus, at risk is avoided of entangling the knife "with the bones, or betwixt them.. In dealing with the left limb, the proceeding is very similar; the internal incision is not made quite so long; but it should still be practised, for a longitudinal opening of about an inch or more in extent is more easily found in the transfixion, than the mere point at which the anterior incision is commenced. * * * Amputation close to the joint K performed precisely in the same manner ; the incisions being made so that thejib’ila is exposed, and sawn immediately below its head, the tibia dose to the tuberosity. * i The flan-oneration may occasionally require to be modified. )\lien muscular plethoric The flap-operation may occasionally require to be modified. When muscular pletnonc subiects meet with sudden and severe accidents, which demand immediate amputation, •J i 1*1 • ' l 1 ./V *1,.. ««« linLln ♦ a L-n null rAlDi the large quantity of muscle which is necessarily left in the flap is liable to suppurate, to retard very much the patient’s recovery, and sometimes to produce dangerous con sequences. In such cases I have performed the following operation. Supposing th left lee to be injured, with a common amputating knife an interior semilunar incision tVl!h° „Zhthe sk n. commencing from the inner side of the Ulna, about four fingers made through the skin, commencing I breadth below its superior extremity, ana passing ove, ns „ semihinar indsion is made at the posterior part of the leg, its extremities joining the