STONE IN THE URETERS. 543 , bath, calomel in active doses, which, when the constitution is otherwise sound, may be ft employed with great advantage, especially if it be immediately followed or accom- b* panied by the use of hyoscyamus in pretty large doses, so as to ensure the anti-spasmodie ■ g! effects of the latter oil the system; and when the urine is high-coloured and acid, the is purgative effects of the calomel may be increased or kept up by the use of some of the ih diuretic purgatives, such as the neutral salts, and particularly the tartarized soda. This l plan may be pursued for a greater or less time, according to the circumstances of the to patient; and will, in favourable cases, be followed by the expulsion of the calculus from >j; the kidney, without the severe symptoms commonly accompanying its descent down iii the ureter.” (pp. 219, 20.) (2) In connexion with the subject of stone in the kidney, the following observations of Brodie on what he considers to be Gouty Inflammation of the Kidney are worthy of particular notice. “ A class of cases you will occasionally meet with,” says he, “ among the affluent classes of society die symptoms of which bear no small resemblance to those just described, although they have a very different origin; and the diagnosis of which is of no small im- portance in practice. The persons liable to be thus affected are those who lead in- dolent lives, indulging themselves, at the same time, in all the luxuries of the table. There is pain in the loins, often very severe, extending downwards to the groin • the urine is scanty and high coloured, depositing, as it cools, an abundant red or yellow sediment (lithate of ammonia.) So far the symptoms a good deal resemble those produced by the passage of a calculus down the ureter; but the absence or pam in the testicle, of sickness and faintness, and the presence of no small degree of symptomatic fever, enable you to distinguish the two orders of cases from each other. The effect produced by the remedies will assist you in your diagnosis. The symptoms which have been just described are of a gouty origin, and yield almost immediately to a free exhibition of colchicum; which, however, it is generally more JJ prudent not to administer until after the bowels have been emptied, by the exhibition of ‘ some grains of calomel, followed by a draught of infusion of senna with the sulphate liot magnesia, or some other saline aperient.” (p. 232.)J 1 III—OF STONE IN THE URETERS. {Calculus Uretericus, Lat.; Stein in den Harnleiter, Germ.; Calcul engage dans Vuretere, Fr.) 10 2018. When a stone descends from the kidney into the ureter, more or a violent symptoms arise, in proportion as the passage of the urine through the ureter is completely or partially prevented. Pain comes on 5T-h*. descends from the kidney to the pelvis, and the patient often feels distinctly the gradual progress of the stone. The ureter is often consi- i lerably distended by the urine collected above the stone. Symptoms of •tone in the kidney will also have been previously observed When the ' tone escapes from the ureter into the bladder, the symptoms quickly ^-ubside, and those of stone in the bladder arise (1). t Y I The treatment is precisely similar to that for stone in the kidney and or ischuria ureterica (2). t 3 anu •• SC7,ere’ and in that case attended I teltSfe; the testicle; and frequently the (a) Lectures in London Med. Guz., vol. viii. J