9i RECTAL RUPTURE. distended womb (a). In men, perinaeal rupture lias a round or pear-shaped form; the swelling is in the perinceum, on one side of the anus, so that the raphe is pressed somewhat aside. In women, so long as the rupture remains in the perinceum, the swelling is roundish, and bluntly conical- pointed ; as it extends into the labium it becomes oblong, egg-shaped. Generally perinaeal rupture is small, or up to the size of a hen’s egg ; but it may attain considerable bulk. 1253. The return of this rupture is usually easy, and it may be kept back by a bandage, consisting of a spring surrounding the pelvis, from the hinder part of which a curved spring descends, and attached to its extremity i conical pad, which being applied directly upon the seat of the rupture he latter is kept up by the strength of the spring and by an elastic band- ige around the thigh. If this rupture be strangulated, and its reduction )y suitable remedies impossible, the operation is neither difficult nor langerous, as the opening of the hernial sac is almost always external to he bottom of the pelvis. After opening the sac, a button-ended bistoury s to be introduced between the intestine and the tough edge of the hernial ac, and the strangulation may be relieved by a slight'eut from below lpwards, obliquely towards the side (Scarpa.) The opinion, that by pressing hack the external swelling, the rupture cannot be com- pletely reduced, is disproved by Scarpa’s observations. , Th«Pude?dal Hernia of Astlev Cooper (6), the posterior labial rupture of Seiler »to be considered merely as a variety of the perimeal rupture in women The intes’ ines descend along tha vagina, between it and the m. levator ani, and form a swellina on he under half of the labium. It is distinguished from inguinal rupture hWhe Z art of the labium and the abdominal ring being quite free It is felt on L, ' l PP “‘T into the ea.jina, pressing on theside of ,L p.Sge, high f "“™duc‘"S See Scarpa, above cited, p. 139. ° F i Cloquet, J.; in Nouv. Journ. de Medecine, vol. i. p 497 Bompard; in Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales de Bruxelles, vol. vii. p. 448. I IX.—OF RECTAL RUPTURE. I Hernia Me.tini recii, La,.', Mastjam, Heirocile, Arch.cile, Hernia iu Scureger, above cited, p. 136. ■e1'r contr,is terns to be slig-ht inclination of 1 • ,•1®Posltl()U to this rupture ,0"lom ‘light curving „f lhe rump W '* p,'°Jeotio" of ll'e pro- ntoa„teT(LlXSaLThr ^ Wrad- the long .sition of the Ly shoTshV 1 v especially if thf e flatness of the upper part of °f the pdvis ; thirdly, if ' the small intestines; Tnd fourthlyVVie 1Cat«.an ll“n;1.tural deepness )on the one side of greater size and at tl celling of the prolapse be 'd fuller, than on^the other ’ The •'m<T firmer> niore elastic amination ; the attempt to ret diagnosis is determinable only by ejng whether there be Ly motion ofthe cont^'T ^ves opportunity for ■ <•) KO.C, »,.g,„nt,182.