309 TREATMENT OF UNITED FINGERS. (J ointed bistoury is thrust, either with its edge towards the operator, I iewhat above the angle of the natural junction of the fingers, vertically, , ough the connecting skin, and then divides it in the mesial line to the 1 rer-tips; or tiie knife is carried from the points of the fingers back- rds through the connexion. The irregularities of the edges of the lund are to be trimmed with the scissors. If the bones be also coll- ated, the soft parts must be first divided with the bistoury, and after- Irds the bony union, through the mesial line, with a little watch-spring The dressings must be most carefully applied: a strip of linen, | ead, at its ends only, with adhesive plaster, must be placed in the angle the wound, and the two ends respectively fixed on the front and back the hand. Over this a small long pad is placed, the surface of the and covered with some folds of linen, spread with ointment, each I eral finger enveloped in a bandage, and the finger, by means of a piece card-board or wood attached to the hand, kept as straight as possible; 3 may also be effected by particular contrivances (a). The dressing iiuld be daily and very cautiously renewed once or under particular umstances even twice, with strips of linen laid close in the angle of wound ; and towards the end of the cure, by a moderate application caustic, the growth of the granulations there must be repressed. Icpuytren (b) applied a narrow long pad with its middle on the angle of the wound, ried its ends to the fore-arm, and fastened them to an arm-bandage. He could not, fever, by these means prevent the reunion. And he did not succeed any better with arrow strap which he buckled to the arm-bandage. i 1564. To prevent the reunion of the angle of the wound, which feecially in firm union, is to be dreaded, Rudtorffer (c) thrusts a steel (idle fourteen lines in length, the point of which is lancet-shaped, and other end having a hole, for the reception of a leaden thread two flies long, vertically between the two united fingers, and thus introduc- lj the leaden thread, bends and leaves it there. Cold water checks the eding and pain, and the sticking of the leaden thread is diminished by earing the edges of the wound with oil. The thread is to be frequently . >ved, and the drying up and scarring hastened by use of lead wash. :ck (d) uses a lancet-needle ten lines broad with a leaden thread of ual width, which is left for some time, till the scarring of the edges of B 3 wound. The leaden thread has a decided preference to the leaden e ite, as by fixing its turned ends, pressure is always kept up against the n gle of the wound, for with the leaden plate, with which this cannot be ne, the growth at the angle of the wound goes on, and the lead is thrust ‘ t, as I saw in one instance. 1565. If the skin upon the back of the united fingers be sound and tural, it should be divided, according to Zeller (e), a little beyond the 3ond phalanx; a V-shaped cut should then be made in the skin on the rsal surface, with its point on the middle of the connecting substance. ie skin should be detached, turned back, and, after the complete vision of the union, this flap should be carried down between the gers towards the palm, and fixed with sticking plaster. This treatment neikunst sicli bezienden Beobaclitungen, vol. ii. p. 478.' (ci) Above cited. 00 Abhandlnng iiber die ersten Erscheitmngen venerischer Local-krankheitsformen, p. 109. Wien, 1810. 1 '0 Zaxo; Dardellung, u. s. w., vol. iv. pi. iii. v ,T!£‘>n* Orales, vol. ii. p. 30. 'JAbliandlung liber die einfachste und sichcrete henL?n™<?ho<le ein K^perner listen- und Kell,ruche; nebst eincm Anhanee merk- raiger, auf den operativen Theil der Wundarz-