99 RUPTURE. another week acquired the magnitude of a goose’s egg. At this period of the disease the mother, on going one morning to take up the child, was very much surprised to find that the swelling.had become much smaller, and perfectly soft. She observed likewise a constant dribbling of water from the urinary passages, and that the bed was soaked with the discharge. It continued incessantly for three days and three nights. By this time the swelling had entirely disappeared, the head was considerably smaller, and the integuments which before were very much distended, now fell in large wrinkles over the child’s forehead, so as actually to cover the eyes.” (pp. 51, 2.) After two mouths the discharge by the urinary organs diminished, the head acquired greater size than before, “ having on this occasion extended itself over the whole of the head and face. * * * A watery discharge, tinged with blood, was seen to ooze from the nostrils and mouth. It continued without ceasing for three days, when the swell- ing on the top of the head had vanished, and the head itself was much smaller. The fluid never again accumulated in the sack on the outside of the head, nor did the head ever gain its. former magnitude, because the discharge from the nostrils was kept up, with slight intermission, till the time of its death,” (p. 52, 3,) which occurred about eleven months after. Baron observes in explanation, that “ the expansion of the brain, its membranes, and of the cranium, seems to have gone on till the parts would stretch no longer, when the rupture took place which caused the first swelling and established a free and large communication between it and the interior of the brain.” (p. 55.) In very rare cases the fluid is contained between the brain and its membranes, and protruding, the latter forms its only contents as in Textor’s (a) and Thompson’s (6) cases. v v ' • Sometimes a portion of the cerebrum, sometimes a part of the cerebellum is contained m ese ruptures, and an instance is given in which the whole cerebellum was found in a rupture through the occipital bone (c). There is also usually fluid, on which account the disease has been named hydroencephalocele. Congemtai cerebral rupture is considered by Meckel (d) to arise either from collection or tiuid in the brain or on its surface, in which case a portion of the brain and its mem- branes are protruded. And as to its more frequent occurrence on the occipital bone than nipclsf/h °TTO ,Say,S’ th,at th,s haPPens because “ the occipital bone consists of several fn thr! I, e’ ThlC1 T\J at a more advauced period unite, and that the water collected bv „ p rl°r,h0rn the vFn.tnc e can act more powerfully upon the four pits formed inclined 2Tp\talJb?ne than upon the other parts, which rather form an through the eniirmd 4n,d he says, that in this case “the brain penetrate* pec ialMesh, ‘ bflp01iC,Pc’ 5 h°le’ ani ,th° Cleft l,PPer verteb™ of the neck, or through _ the.slle]I of jhe occipital bone, or at its upper angle.” (p. 410.) Among MorpaWY,Pplt,0nS °f tll S r"Pture milst be mentioned the cases mentioned f and s minlp !CHT'R {f) ln Which the swed’ng appeared at the root of the nose and, st!11 more rarely where it protrudes into the orbit, the nostril, and the sphenoidal bee^h?eLSn7v mfntZPf ^e%are mUCh Kger than the head itself> of which a case has head aWe the ears wnc J7, FoRGEM«L (?) - 111 this instance the circumference of the imetres ‘S 0n y ~ ceutimetres, whilst that of the tumour was 30 cen- apPfilS t0 be double’ eitber iu consequence of inus or by a tendino s hnS d '? PT-SS °f the dura mater’ and of *e longitudinal ived till six vears old ^ t 1Dt0 tW° halveS’ as in Wepfer’s case (h), which lunlicitv nf tiip l -i These, however, must not be confounded with the actual \Otto “ at its commencement S ialves. And hi Bill!t,her’ whur,e the one was again divided into two >ave been a second rupture ” the SCar above the hernial rupture appeared to v* cte *r i,,s,”c's’ Ot JMlckels (j), ill which it occurred; “ scarred spots being (a) Nenc Chiron., vohji. p. 409- j0ndon Medical Repository, vol. ii. p. 353. e^ruhnlre vof i'" Sllfno,-D’» Journal dir die iT!, vo1' lv- P- tof- 1823. r, ,'Ief Pathologischen Anatomic, belp«g, 1812. 8 vo. («) Uictionnalre de Mcdecine, vol. viii p 51 (f) Comment. Soc. (lotting, vol. xv.p. 29 1804 p lfo24 1,U1845 d° rACad’ K°y>de Mcdecine, vol. x. (A) Ohs. de Affect.Capit., p. 4(1. Scaplmsii, 1717. (i) Traite des Maladies dcs Enfans nouveaux- nes, &c. Paris, 1828. Hvo. / j) Descript, monstrorum nonnullorum. p. 57. Lips., 1820. H II 2