AND TREATMENT. 463 j 0 serious, and sometimes fatal, that the patient’s life ought not to be endangered by uch treatment. And should this practice even succeed, it is only useful for a time, s the fluid will recollect. As to the use of injections, after emptying the joint of its ontents, as advised by Velpeau, and presently to be mentioned, I think it cannot be oo much deprecated, and I doubt whether any English Surgeon would risk his eputation, and the safety of his patient, by a practice which must be attended with lmost certain mischief.—J. F. S.] 1880. After the operation the patient must be kept quiet for ten or r welve days, and the part bathed with cold lead wash. If pain and nflammation arise, the rules recommended for wounds of joints must ie followed. If these symptoms do not occur, or when they have been iut aside, all those remedies must be employed, after the healing of the round, which are capable of restoring the due relations between the ecretion and absorption of the synovial fluid. 1881. The simple puncture of the dropsy of a joint rarely ever indeed r; mxluces a radical cure, as the fluid re-collects more or less quickly, and resides severe symptoms and suppurative inflammation may ensue. To effect a radical cure, Bonnet («) has employed successfully in ropsy of the knee-joint, injections of iodine; and the same has been ; Iso practised by Velpeau (b). After the leg has been stretched i ut, an assistant places his hand on one side of the joint, for the purpose of pressing the fluid towards the other, at which' the puncture l « to be made. The outer or inner side of the joint above the knee- ;! ap may be chosen. The skin is then to be raised in a fold, the base *f which is punctured with a trocar, which must be thrust in at least bree-quarters of an inch, and so deep as that its point shall touch the front irface of the thigh-bone. A viscid transparent fluid escapes through the canula, of which only from five to seven drams is to be drawn away, w is. about a similar quantity to the quantity of fluid presently to be ©ejected. The canula is always to be directed upwards, so that it remain 1 ill of fluid, and therefore in the injection the air is more certainly ex- cluded. Various solutions of iodine may be used as injections ; Bonnet, wowever, especially prefers a solution of half a dram of iodine and one dram w iodide of potash, in four drams of water (1). The quantity of fluid ■hjected must not exceed that drawn off, and therefore, in dropsy of ? ;'e *nee-joint, never more than from four to five drams of fluid should lb thrown in. After the injection has been made, and the canula WT Y Wltl.ldrawn> the puncture must be covered with sticking faster, the limb laid in a tray, and kept perfectly still. The con“ ijcrrquence of the injection is an acute inflammation, the running on of mch t° suppuration must be carefully prevented. In very great and nlul swellings of the joint, from the excessive collection of fluid, it ’ !L!.neCeSSary t0 discharge part of the fluid by puncture, so as to ®en the symptoms. lately! SinJ m'lStak° proportions given for this injection, which unfor- I Enl/h s^Z t e,,°TrtUn,, y10t Venf>ing’ U must be highly caustic, and such as - ght6!J F !.] ’1 h k’W0U d dal'C t0 throw lnt0 a j°int, though a French Surgeon 11 'droplsiT et8l™Abc KTtSi™"8 ^ ^aJ,adies. Cl>roniq„es do.. Articulation par des In- Ulleting6nc,alXThArj™^Articulations in ject.ons irritantes. Strasbourg 1842. f1e- 1842-Mart,N, (Th^Vr^ai'teLntd^ isg 0%*** MMica,e ^aris> vo1- *• P* 651-