711 SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. r not of very frequent occurrence, and sometimes acquire enormous size. Lawrence (a) ■j removed one from the buttock of a female, which “ had commenced at the posterior % part of the left labium pudendi, and had extended gradually along the buttock and 2 behind the os coccyyis.” It was twice as large as an adult’s head, “ its greatest circum- v ference was thirty-two inches, it was twenty-one inches round at the basis, eleven inches i! from the latter to the middle of its inferior edge, and eight in the line of the basis from the coccyx towards the trochanter.” The root in the labium could not be removed, t md after some time a fresh growth occurred, and the tumour attained a third of its ! -5 former size. It was subjected to a second operation, the root followed, and the swelling js completely eradicated. I have seen similar tumours, though of less size, two or three ic imes on the labia pudendi, which parts seem rather more subject to them than others. A very remarkable instance of repeated and quick reproduction of one of these ^ umours, occurred to my colleague Mackmurdo two or three years since. It grew from he under surface of the urethra of a woman, and was as large as an orange. It crew gain rapidly, and was again removed at the end of a month, having become larger than • .t first. In five days it had re-formed and was as large as before, then continued Epr;rowmg more slowly; and at the end of three months, having increased considerably ■eyond the size of the former tumours, was a third time removed, and has not since t. etumed. Sometimes the neck by which they are attached becomes considerably lengthened : in t. I homas s Museum, there is an instance in which the neck is about six or eight » caches long, and the tumour as big as the fist. Occasionally, instead of having any neck, the whole cellular tissue of an entire limb jay grow enormously; I recollect an instance several years ago, removed by Astley 8 '°°PER> m which along the inner margin of each arm, one more so than the other a swelling of this kind extended from the middle of the upper arm to the wrist I bout two hands breadth deep, and having the appearance of a hanging sleeve. ! Confused with these simple overgrowths of the cellular tissue, are those enlargements I i me prepuce and scrotum, which correspond to the overgrowths of the prepuce of the ; “T\Vi • the ndl,lPh?’ and depend on slow inflammation with adhesive deposit in S wi, Uiar tlssu<r In tde prepuce, this condition in which the cellular tissue is filled / artn seinltransParent jelly-like substance, frequently follows severe external EJs s* r rkbe i*> “>«»? * <•« i w™ seen *, ^ u ar tlssue of the face, in which the eyelids were so completely filled , -™,r fPertures were simple transverse slits, and the woman was scarcely able even l ln this case I removed some deep slices (which were semitransparent, Jl “d(,dld not ooze out any fluid when squeezed) about a third of an inch in width the int 1 if !ntervals> from bel°w the lower lid, and hoped that the fluid contained , e wound^b ’l T Spaff 'vou.ld, have escaped through the wounds, but it did not, and afW fh ed ^fkty with but little relief, as at the present time, ten or a dozen 1 bargemenftnftbPeratl?n’ herifaC1e-1S1neaily ln the same condition as at first. The • id soni, f 1 fvt ie scrotum this kind is a very common occurrence in warm climates. ■ le scrotumnfn Crtp,ns, whlch weighea seventy pounds. Df.lpech <c) removed d Listov (l\ na lve of PcP'gnan, of which the weight was sixty French pounds - : lenShfl 1-8 ag° r.emoved a similar swelling from a young man of comniri ’ wl!lch had been growing twelve years, and weighed nearly fifty pounds J fi! from7h '^eSeth? Scrotum of the French Foreign Minister, DelZcroix, which' Me) and aTtbT ty‘S1X i° tWenty'seven P°unds, was removed by Imbert de Lon-’ The ’and at„the tlme made g^at noise, was trivial. fferenSn *hT °f Sarc«™i, of which Chelids speaks, as attacking organs, is very 5 true m. oif. 1 U , tlss,uc is filled with adhesive matter. In the testicle it is I dargementof the nhm°T &?d 'S n0t ™alipiant. It has some resemblance to the r- pre opaque andli SkWden alre!uly referred to, but the deposited matter is is more or less comnletelt Wted’ f the stracture of whatever organ it is lodged ' ' cc.—J. F. s.j ' P t y St’ and w ien cut into has an almost scirrhous appear- 2282 Th'J f ack. Tii JL 0rlltl ,°^ 1,*iese swellings is various, sometimes they have a M(i(1 ,, era iey Srow quickly and attain an enormous size. They vi?p.73.11' ,<$ ’’radical Suwery, p. 3«. Fourth Edition, • I82&.n'qUe C1,irurgicale do Montpellier, vol. («j Richeranu, Nongraphic Cl.irurgicale, vol. tv. p. 315. Fourth Edition, ISlo.