OPERATIONS FOR PROLAPSE OF WOMB. 114 four stitches, and the needle carried in the same way downwards, to con , -j plete the horse-shoe. The ends of the threads are now to be draw 1 together, so as to fold up the prolapse, and then fastened with a loo knot. The after-treatment consists in rest, blood-letting, cold fomentation r< and diet. After two or three days, the threads may be drawn tighter. j portion of the mucous membrane of the vagina separates after ten days,- j scar forms in the vagina, and prolapse never recurs. 1281. Episioraphy is performed, according to Fricke (a), in the folio’ I ing manner:—After the patient has been properly placed, the Surge* g takes hold of one labium with one hand, thrusts in a pointed bistou t about two fingers from the upper commissure, and a full finger s bread J j from the edge of the labium, and carries it down to the franulum, whe«- i he brings it out again in a small curve, so that a portion of the labium a finger’s breadth width is separated, and then the upper still attached pt ! , of this portion of skin is to be completely cut through in an oblique dim ii tion. The same proceeding is to be adopted with the other side, and: carried on to the frcenulum that a part of the latter is removed, and bo cuts brought together at an angle, at a finger’s breadth from the frcenulu After the bleeding from the spouting arteries has been stopped by torsic u and from the little vessels by cold water, both edges of the wound am / be brought together with from ten to twelve stitches. It should be pp .. viously considered whether the prolapse can be kept up merely by qu position or not; and in the latter case, previous to putting in the stitch! ■ a piece of oiled sponge, upon which a thread is attached, should be inti duced into the vagina. The patient, after the operation, is to be laid her side, with the rump somewhat raised, and the knees tied togetb; ;-j [. Applications of cold water or lead wash should be made to the worn, and the urine drawn off by the catheter, for the first few days. Thouu however, no perfect union ensue, yet usually the prolapse is partially kk ^ up. The vaginal mucus and the menstrual blood escape, and coitus cam. effected by the opening remaining at the upper part. Should pregna* ensue, the adhesion may be divided, or cuts on the sides made at the ti > of delivery (1). (1) Ivock (h) uses the quill-stitcli in episioraphy. Plath (c) gives the account of a birth after episioraphy. A bridge still existed* delivery the lower opening dilated, and was still further enlarged by three cuts od; sides. The result was completely satisfactory. . . m^Tvrvner-s nf Mnrvland ( d\ has Derformed successfully the operation of episiort