13 INCARCERATION. emptied by clysters (1). In small ruptures which contain only one wall of the intestine, (Littre’s (a) or lateral rupture,) the costiveness may be deficient or imperfect. If no assistance be afforded, the uneasiness, anxiety, tension, and painfulness of the belly and of the rupture increase, the vomiting becomes more frequent and painful, the body is covered with sweat, the pulse, quick, small, and thready, becomes irregular, the patient’s counte- nance sinks in. Exacerbations and remissions of these symptoms, however present themselves, and deceive both the patient and the practitioner. [(1) Although costiveness is generally one of the symptoms of strangulation, it is by no means uncommon for the bowels to be relieved, and not unsparingly, although the strangulated bowel be impervious. This depends on the part of the intestinal canal strangulated; and the quantity of stool remaining in it below the protruded part. I have on more than one occasion heard Surgeons of eminence speak of dilatation of a strangulated rupture on coughing, which I must confess I think impossible, if the rupture be more than incarcerated. Luke, however, as will be hereafter shownVp 47 ) when he describes the mode of ascertaining the seat of stricture, in reference to the operation for its division external to the sac, has explained that this dilatation is not of the part strangulated, but of that part of the rupture immediately above the seat of stricture, whilst that below remains unaltered. Such dilatation may happen when the seat of the stricture is at a distance below the mouth of the sac, but where the mouth itself is strictured, it cannot be possible.—j. f. s. Astley Cooper observes, that “ when more than one irreducible hernia exists in the same person, it is sometimes difficult to determine which it is that requires operation ■” and he mentions the case of a woman, in which there was a rupture in each groin and another at the navel. Her symptoms not being urgent, the operation was deferred, and she died on the same evening. On examination, “ the tumour in the right groin was found to be an enlarged and inflamed absorbent gland, lying over au empty hernial 6 !?? ,gr°m Pftion of inflamed intestine, and at the navel was an irre- mattS™had suPPurated, and contained about a table-spoonful of 1137. In a slighter degree of inflammation, and when it is Iona- con- fined merely to the seat of strangulation, the symptoms are less violent and come on more slowly. The pain in the belly is not severe, but rather forcing, the belly remains soft, and not painful, the vomitino- jurs at bnger periods, and with less violence, the pulse is little or not at all altered. The symptoms first become more severe on the farther extension and increase of the inflammation. r„,!.138- T1Je incarceration from overloading the intestines lying in the rupture, or from collection of stools, occurs mostly in old and large ruptures paStt,TUth 0f ‘7 rT,l,re is 'Tide “d h“ >°s‘The patient has for some days felt unusual weight and dragging in the rupture °f'^tion - &‘“'en«; th? ru^re7S iSe reouirp, "0t V®ry tellse> and doughy to the feel, and fufl and f 1 eri PreTre in attemPtin£ its reduction; the belly is indeed f0l ow beLhfnf UP’ •? n0t Piainful 5 if pain c0me on’ Permits ; then be got rid offw V°mitlnf ’ and costiveness. This incarceration, if it cannot symptoms becmLPIi0Per ftrf t'lient> may co»tinue a long time before the them. urgent, but earlier or later inflammation accompanies JL1®* If.there be Wlth this incarceration, spasmodic symptoms or if mSieTffceSTT °,f in the fe^foTfespJ- women and after ail 1181 lve persons, hypochondriacal or hysterical men, and after ailments which produce spasmodic, flatulent, or bilious haamf*' Ci['bef8^otlin?t,eln “• 'vidernaturlichen After, angsbrnche (Ilcrnia: Litlcricce) mit Hermcrkun- j ’ 18-11 > wlth one copper-plate.