116 PROLAPSE WITH INVERSION It is, therefore, distinguished as incomplete and complete inversion ; in the < j former case the fundus of the womb protrudes more or less through its - 1 mouth, and forms a semicircular swelling, which is encompassed by the* j mouth of the womb ; in the latter the whole womb is protruded, from its - j fundus to its neck, through its mouth, and lies in front of the external. ( generative parts in shape of a pear-formed swelling. [Crosse observes :—“Inversion of the uterus is either partial or total; the latter.! j can exist only in one degree, and admits of no subdivisions. Partial inversion, on the t contrary, comprises very many degrees; and there are both physiological and practical., j reasons for noticing and describing three, by way of classification ; namely, depression, j introversion, and perversion. Depression, the first division and slightest degree of partial inversion, is present. I when any portion of the entire thickness of the walls of the uterus becomes convex ■ j towards its cavity or interior, without going to the extent of being invaginated, or j brought within the grasp of the rest of the uterus, supposing it to contract by the action j of its muscular coats. The interior convexity is answered by a concavity of the same i extent on the exterior surface of the womb. The posterior, lateral, or even perhaps { the anterior part of the body of the organ, may be thus displaced after parturition: i but usually the fund us is the part affected. * * * The palpable evidence of this degree 1 of inversion is obtained by examination through the parietes of the abdomen, or by the ( hand in ulero meeting with a convexity of more or less firmness according to tin . atonic or contracted state of the part, and giving the idea of a placenta still remaining ■ after the entire placenta has been removed. If the placenta be still adherent, it I attachment is to the inverted portion, and any attempt to remove it by traction wii increase the inversion. . W Introversion is when so great a part of the fundus is displaced, as that it comes withn the grasp of the portion of the uterus, into which it is received. The greatest degree of this displacement consists in the fundus and continuous part of the body of th uterus being received into the remainder of its body and cervix, the convexity of th- fundus being palpable at the os tincce. The inverted portion is in a situation to b resisted, supported, compressed, and otherwise acted upon, by the uninverted, by whic it is always surrounded. In proportion to the degree of introversion is the depth an. extent of the peritoneal pouch opening towards the abdomen. The uterine ligaments are i part drawn into this pouch, and the ovaria approximate, the marginal circle correspond^ to the angle of inflexion. On examining above the pubes, the circular margin of tl uterus can be felt forming the boundary of the inversion, and the uterus and part of tl : body of the organ are wanting; in a thin patient, and where the abdominal parietes sir relaxed and yielding, the fingers of the accoucheur may even enter the orifice of tl t peritoneal pouch, pressing those parietes before them. If the placenta be still attache,: it is felt at the os tinea, or in the cavity of the uterus, and judged to be of unusual siz' if partially detached it allows of great hemorrhage, which may cease on its removH if the inverted fundus contract, and be felt firm to the touch; but haemorrhage co tinues if the inverted mass be soft, indicating that it is still in a state of inertia. j Perversion is when more or less of the inverted portion of the uterus projects through t • os tinea; in its greatest degree the whole body of the uterus as well as the fundus, pass inverted through the os, the cervix only remaining in situ, encircling the contiguo or highest part of the inverted portion, all the rest being uncompressed and uusupport. by the uterus. The peritoneal pouch is lengthened, and the proper uterine cavity near obliterated. Where “ the inverted part is surrounded by the cervix, it may constrict producing congestion and even strangulation in all the rest of the inverted organ beW The angle of inflexion (so first named by Radford of Manchester) is always bel< the middle of the body of the uterus. In considering the successive steps of the inverting process, we trace the descem the fundus through the uterine cavity until it projects at the os, fills the rapt no. * reaches the external labia ; and the process may go on in the same direction to its co pletion, the inverted fundus and even body of the uterus prolapsing externally, until encircling cervix descends, under expulsive efforts, to a level with the labia, and bec» apparent under ocular examination. But if the labia resist sufficiently the row descent of the fundus, and part of the body of the uterus remains still umnverteO, n not the process be carried to its completion by ascent of the cervix i No author hinted at this view of the subject, and yet its correctness must be admitted, ni orfl explain the well-established fact, that where the inverted fundus and body of the w