C09 AFTER-TREATMENT. 2 it HLre is perfected; the diet having been gradually improved, and porter or wine added j&iccording to circumstances.—J. F. S.] 2108. When, after the operation, there is reason to fear active inflam- mation, it must be sought to prevent it by general and local blood-letting, wlind by the constant use of cold applications to the perinceum. If inflam- m nation arise, which commonly spreads over the peritonceum, it must be w net with corresponding antiphlogistic treatment (1). It most commonly jftlepends on the escape of urine into the cellular tissue of the pelvic cavity, I fivhfen the capsule of the prostate has been opened by a large cut, or by Bearing. Old persons, in whom the walls of the bladder are thickened, »r otherwise diseased, often die without any active inflammatory symptoms morning on. Opiate clysters and blisters to the belly are proper in these •|wises (a). In an erethetic state, which shows itself by a very great aplegree of general uneasiness, by great wearisomeness of the whole body, [ij|»y dull paiu in the loins, and depression of the powers, with small, con- tracted, faltering pulse, cooling and mild treatment must be first em- h'.iloyed, together with warm bathing and oily mixtures, and if any one organ ^especially affected, leeches must be at the same time applied to it (b). Spasmodic symptoms require antispasmodic remedies alone, or in con- noiexion with antiphlogistics, if there be accompanying inflammation. A Bjtainful discharge of urine by the urethra, or its complete obstruction may jlaie caused by spasm, by swelling of the wounded parts, or by a collection blj'f clotted blood. According to the variety of the cause, the remedies I tnust be either antispasmodic or antiphlogistic, and the urine must be Bmp tied through the wound by a female catheter passed into the bladder. | [(1) “ It is a prevailing opinion,” says Key, “ that stone-patients die of peritonitis drought on by the injury done to the bladder during the operation, a mistake which, rishough not leading to any serious error in the after-treatment, is so far attended with ageiischief inasmuch as it misleads the Surgeon from the true cause of the fatal event. I ip'iil not venture the assertion, that inflammation of the peritonceum is never a sequela of I thotomy, but that it is an extremely rare occurrence, and still more rarely the cause iS if death, examinations post mortem have fully convinced me. During the ten years I ave been at our hospitals, I have never yet seen an unsuccessful case, examined after 4'pe operation, in which inflammation of the peritonceum could be regarded as the cause fill death: and as invariably I have found that one circumstance was uniformly present, .viamely, suppurative inflammation of the reticular texture surrounding the bladder! * * * Inflammation spreading rapidly through these cells will quickly affect a surface much greater than that of the peritoiiceum, and I have witnessed,” says he, symptoms as acute, pain as severe, and the peculiar depression attending peritonitis, ■ 3 marked in the reticular inflammation as in the most acute and fatal case of inflam- 1 latl<m of the abdominal cavity. * * * In the inspection of those who die after lithotomy, it is not sufficient to look into the peritoneal cavity, to open the bladder, or i ' examine the state of the wound; the peritonceum lining the lower part of the ab'do- ? Ilna* muscles should be stripped off, and the source of evil will be then laid open. The * , “e" enter a quantity of brick-dust coloured pus in the cellular substance around u .ie bladder, and if considerable force has been used in the extraction of the stone, will ' *)• fin(* way towards the wound in the perinceum; the barrier between the t-Upose structure of the perinceum and the reticular texture of the pelvis being broken own, the suppurative inflammation spreads rapidly along the latter, and may be traced, I"1 some cases> between the peritonceum and abdominal muscles as high as the umbilicus, u ■'rmp.1 jiicnj jCaio jjaoi, says Brodie, “has con- J . rae In the opinion, that an incision of the prostate, extending into the loose cellular ivism *UTToundln.9 l,le nech °f the bladder, is replete with danger to the patient. Such a . cannVl purts is never necessary where the calculus is of moderate dimensions; but b not be avoided where it is of very large size ; and hence the extraction of stones of (n) Samuet, Cooper. First Vines of Surgery, p. 77.). Seventh Edition. 1840. VOL. Ii.