610 CUTTING FOR THE STONE, THROUGH this description can never be accomplished without a great probability of the patie not surviving the operation. “The symptoms which arise in these cases are not well marked in the first instauc There is some heat of skin, and generally an absence of perspiration ; there is usual an abundant flow of urine through the wound. The pulse, as to frequency, is som what above the natural standard ; and the patient, although free from suffering, has 1 disposition to sleep. This state of things continues for twenty-four or even fort eight hours after the operation ; then the more characteristic and alarming symptoi show themselves. The pulse becomes more frequent, rising to 90, 100, and at last 140 in a minute; the heat of skin becomes still greater, the tongue dry, the countenan anxious. Afterwards, as you count the pulse, you find every now and then a be 1 weaker than the rest, and then there are complete intermissions. At first the interim sions are not more than one or two in a minute; by degrees they become more frequei until they occur every third or fourth beat. There is an occasional hiccough j tl patient complains of some degree of tenderness in the lower part of the abdomen, esp- ecially in the left groin ; the belly becomes tympanitic, that is the stomach and mte tines are filled with air, the distension of the belly increases, the hiccoughs are mo: frequent, the pulse continuing to intermit, becomes weak and fluttering. In some 1 stances, the patient retains his understanding even to the last; while in others lie fat into a state of low delirium previous to death. Occasionally in the progress of such case, the patient has a severe rigor, and sometimes he complains of a pain in the loin Where these symptoms begin at an early period, he may die within forty-eight hou from the time of the operation ; but in other cases, death may not take place for lonr c: five days, or even for a week. On dissection you find the cellular membrane round tM neck of the bladder, and between the prostate and the rectum, bearing marks of mflar. mation, infiltrated with lymph and serum, and to a greater or less extent, converts into a slough, If death has taken place at an early period, the intestines are found aid tended with air, and there is a very slight effusion of serum in that part of the pent neeum, which descends into the pelvis. But if the patient has laboured under tnea symptoms for many days before he dies, the peritonaum, where it is reflected from it bladder to the rectum, is seen of a darker colour than natural, and incrusted with lympl; and at a still later period there is the appearance of inflammation, to a greater or le extent, throughout the peritonaum generally. But the peritonseal inflammation is ev. dently not the primary disease ; it is the inflammation and sloughing of the ceuum membrane of the pelvis, which has induced inflammation of the adjoining portion < that membrane. Something also is to be attributed to the tympanitic distension of tt intestines, which, if continued for a considerable time, is always liable to be attende with tenderness of the abdomen, and some degree of peritonseal inflammation. It is in portant that you should not fall into the error of regarding such cases as I have ju described, as cases of simple peritonseal inflammation; for the remedies which wow be useful in the latter case are injurious here. The abstraction of blood, or ev operation of an active purgative, will cause the patient to sink more rapidly, only to hasten his death. The proper system to be pursued, is the opposite to tnaic depletion. The patient should take such nutriment as Ins stomach is capable ot d'e ing. The bowels may be kept open by injections, or by the exhibition of some vc gentle purgative; and ammonia, wine, and brandy are to be administere , w state of the general system indicates that stimulants are necessary, (p. 32/ •JJ 2109. The bleeding which occurs at various periods after the °Perat.10" ' requires a different mode of treatment according to its degree. . r'.1? * it may be considered useful as a local blood-letting, and as tranquil izin) the patient. A severe bleeding, when coming on soon after the operatioc if it do not yield to the use of cold applications, requires the ligature, the seat of the bleeding vessel will permit it, or pressure as a rea directed. In this case, as well as when pressure is also applied after operation, the instrument used must be continued in its proper p ace, loiw as seems necessary for the certain obliteration of the vessel, h e • from the vessels of the bladder requires, besides strict rest and a c<^° treatment, cold applications to the belly, and in cases of necessity mj tions of cold water, or solution of alum. In persons whose blood is thin and watery, their eyelids puffy and semi-transparent