910 RESULTS OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE THIGH. [Syme (a) has made the following observations in regard to amputation through the shaft of the thigh-bone :—“ The danger immediately attending its performance,” says • he, “ and the inconvenience of its imperfect result, in rendering the stump uncomfortable, have suggested various contrivances and modifications of procedure, with the effect,, certainly, of restraining the hemorrhage, diminishing the patient’s suffering, and pro-- moting union of the wound. But the stern evidence of hospital statistics still shows,, that the average frequency of death is not less than from 50 to 70 per cent., while it’ cannot be denied that many of the survivors suffer from uneasiness connected with i protrusion of the bone. Having from an early period of my practice devoted much i attention to the subject of amputation—having seen the circular incision give place to the flap-operation,—and having witnessed the results of these methods, variously modi- fied, in the hands of many Surgeons possessing every degree of operative skill, I am at length led to the conclusion, that there is something radically wrong in the principle of the operation. This error I believe to be, dividing the thigh-bone through its shaft: instead of the condyles or trochanters. * * * The most frequent occasion for ampu- • tation of the thigh is afforded by diseases of the knee-joint. Next to this may be ranked 1 compound fractures of the leg and thigh, and then tumours of the leg and thigh. * * * Dense bone dies more readily than that of a spongy or cancellated structure; and the action of a saw, to say nothing of ruffling the periosteum, must always be apt to cause; exfoliation, which, by impeding union of the soft parts, delays union, and opposes its i perfect completion, by increasing the scope afforded to contraction of the muscles. It t would, however, be a narrow view to suppose that the direct effect of local injury is ■ alone concerned in causing death of the bone after amputation, and there can be no doubt, that inflammation of the medullary membrane may co-operate, if it does not t act exclusively, in its production. * * * But if the medullary membrane he liable to inflammation, suppuration of its texture, and inflammation of the veins cannot fail to be the frequent consequence. * * * But when the bone is divided through the con- dyles, nothing more than the epiphysis being concerned, the medullary membrane is not at all disturbed, whilst the cancellated structure is not liable to exfoliate, either from proneness to die from injury, or through inflammation of any other texture.” (pp. 337- 39.) Two cases of scrofulous disease of the knee-joint, in general very favourable cases for amputation, are given as successful examples of the result of this practice, and upon tnese the recommendation of amputating through the epiphyses of the thigh-bone is founded. In reading the above paragraph, I was surprised at the dangers and inconveniences t resulting from amputation, at the middle or near the middle of the shafts of bones which j is most commonly selected for that operation, as detailed by Syme ; and still more at the awful mortality of from 50 to 70 per cent., which “ the stern evidence of hospital statistics still shows.” And as my recollection of the usual results of amputation at St. Thomas's Hospital had not led me to consider amputation so formidable an operation, either immediately, or in its consequences, except in the case of primary or seconr arv amputations for accidents, which are always very serious, and most commonly law, 1 referred to my notes of all the amputations I had performed m i?t. 1 nomass Hospital during six years. From these is subjoined an account of twenty-eign amputations through the thigh; five of them were primary, and two secondarj ; me whole were fatal except one of the latter: the remainder consisted of seventeen eases of scrofulous disease of the knee-joint, of which four died; two of necrosis, °i e osteosarcoma ; and one of fungoid disease, all lived. The total of the fatal casis " ten, or 35 • 7 per cent.; of the primary, all died; of the secondary, 1 in 2, or .>0 Pe*c?n'’ of the scrofulous, 4 in 17, or 23 • 5 per cent. In none, of the successful cases i J of the untoward occurrences happen which arc mentioned, by Syme, though a ", amputated through the middle of the bone, excepting that in three cases a vcrj s ring of bone exfoliated, and in which only did protrusion occur, and that only fora ti The results of my colleagues’ practice in regard to this operation, I am quite s > correspond with my own, though I cannot report them, but the cases I have gi afford a fair estimate of this operation in our Hospital. • ’ ’ ’ ’ Liston has also nw11 i * An account of eighteen amputations through the thigh by Liston has also riven (b\ of which for accidents, two were primary, one lived and one died ; aD . secondary, one lived and one died; eight were for disease of the knee-joint, one f ^ given twofor1 painful "stump",'one for old ulcer, one for malignant ulcer, one forery^P^'j one for tumour in the ham, all the last six successful The average of the *» cases here is 1 in 6, or 16-6 per cent.-, in the primary and secondary cases, 50 per cent.; and in the scrofulous cases, 1 in 8, or 12$ per cent. (a) Surgical Coses and Observations ; in London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Med'cal vol. v. 1845. mnourgn Monimy ,-0 (ft) Potter, above cited, p. wx-A«o.