THE BILATERAL SECTION. 597 tfboncavity downwards, and its middle over the raphe. The membranous id jart being laid bare, is opened, and the point of the bistoury introduced Bjupon the nail of the left forefinger into the groove of the staff, and carried some way along it. A peculiar lithotome is then entered into ip his opening, and pushed along the groove of the staff into the bladder, a The neck of the bladder is divided, in withdrawing this instrument, by ■knives which project on both sides, in the direction of the external b> vound. A gorget is then introduced, and upon it the forceps. K Dupuytren’s lithotome is similar to that proposed by Fleurant for operating on 0 vomen for the stone; the two blades may he separated to a distance of eighteen ines. Charrikre’s improvement consists in the blades projecting obliquely down- , yards. La Serre’s alteration which is inefficient, consists in their acting first in the ■horizontal, and then in an oblique direction. Asteey Cooper cut through the neck of (. he bladder on both sides with a double-edged gorget. ■>( Upon this subject the following works may he consulted:— rtji Olliyier, above cited, p. 237. Archives Generates de Medecine, vol. v. p. 159. 1824. i. Repertoire Generale d’Anatomie et de Physiologie Pathologiques, vol. i. p. 240. my Legons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 381. i: Dupuytren, Sur une Maniere Nouvelle de pratiquer l’Operation de la Pierre; ter- m aine et publ. par Sanson et Begin. Paris, 1836. 2092. Beclard altered his mode of performing the sectiu bilateralis J >rotn that which he first advised, and proceeded in the following manner: E saving the staff, which had been first introduced, alone, so as not to feilisturb the position of the parts, he made a cut through the coverings, as o.in the lateral operation, with a knife similar to that of Dubois ; then ‘^opened the membranous part upon the left side and behind the bulb, and •passed the knife nearly transversely, with its edge directed to the left, ■d-i nto the bladder, and enlarged the opening in drawing back the knife. At :x;his point of the operation, he raised his hand, and gave the blade of the rp istoury a direction parallel to the axis of the prostate, in order to avoid nrqjuring the seminal vesicles and the base of the bladder with the point. f the stone could not be drawn out through this opening, he enlarged it I nth the button-ended bistoury ; and if this did not answer, he made a foiecond cut transversely to the right side into the neck of the bladder and 0 ody of the prostate. T NNf ^ iP Proceeded in the same way, except that he directed the first cut into the * f,ck of the bladder more obliquely downwards, as in the common lateral operation. >: he external tegument need not be cut into in the second transverse cut, as it is capable >* f great extension. ■f fh ^ hatl already proceeded in a similar way; after cutting into the neck I the bladder, he passed his forefinger into the neck and upon it a small bistoury, and rum made upon the right side a cut similar to that on the left. ? ’ ^ASSIS (c) has proposed cutting into the neck of the bladder in four direc- .. Wi . i1, C01-0^1 nat has recommended an instrument, (lithotome quadruple,) in cn two blades project upwards and outwards, and two downwards and outwards (d). 1 20^3' The advantage of the bilateral section is, that it affords a cut of li/er^4^r°e ex^en^ ^0r ^ie removal of a large stone; without danger of H-i ounc mg the pudic artery; and the rectum may be avoided, notwith- ■<; n mg the large size of the cut. In regard to Dupuytren’s semicir- ar external cut, it may be remarked, that the transverse artery indeed 9ur le® dillercntes Mfe- (c) Taillo qundrilaterale. These. Paris, 1828. laris, 182a. (d) Oi.i.ivixu, above cited, p.238.—Arcliivcs >'■ action de la Piene^ 17566S d° fa'r°1Ex* generales de Medecine, vol. viii. p. 139,309, 310.