LIABLE TO BE CONFUSED WITH CANCER. 789 • the like, are employed locally, and in violent inflammation, leeches Such • internal remedies as diminish the excited sensibility, and regulate the i functions of the womb, therefore, calomel and opium, and between whiles a mild aperient, aqua lauro-cerasi, or hemlock with rhubarb, should be given; afterwards strengthening remedies, especially the preparations of , iron, with a corresponding dietetic regimen (a). . [All these remedies and a vast many others are frequently employed without the \{ least benefihand patient and practitioner are equally tired of the complaint and of p each other. Matrimony is the most agreeable and most certain cure for tins most vexa- tious ailment, and should be gently hinted to the patient’s friends.—J. F. S.] 24o2. Milk-knots or lumps often present the same hardness as scirrhus. They always occur during pregnancy, or after delivery, from whatever cause can produce inflammation of the breast-gland, as, for instance, cold mechanical mutation, excoriation of the nipple, and the like At first there are either symptoms of inflammation, which subside ior there is not any accompanying inconvenience. Besides these circum’ stances, milk-knots are characterized by their round smooth shape and by their free mobility ; they are generally in the middle of the bi east near the nipple, well defined, not surrounded by any hardened celluhr H«iip and not connected by any strings to the neighbouringpartsftft dim nish ,°r dlSappPfar on the recurrence of the flow of milk • thJy comes on a 860011 pi^nancy’ and generally lessen when menstruatioJ bee™±0tiha;!ia mali°nant aPPearance in old women who have never m Zi l • y-pCCUr aft6r the Cessation of menstruation, if subject Thr«u a J'!ry’ ’ connected with gout or other general diseases the swelling is then harder and more irreo-nlar • th« f es‘ becomes hard around the knot and is connected by strings with'the nSIT prauSfed^^ “ntler SUCh State scirrh0us degmeration° is always to te *egin tool. after del™e„ St ™5r* quanftty of milk. They generally \J*hni ns gradual lessening bv withdraw!™ °f a set”n 1Dto the the speedy secretion fS i the In subse(laeat ^mgs-in, the unrtnrniar-kuble’ as more than a quart of rich n-n™i de!l^ery> wl,ich was thought uncture wlth a lancet. As I was fearful tb«V , g ,nnlk was discharged by a to pass a seton through tent» and stin less sIl°uld I ,ng beea deprived of its sS ’br the Z^0^ Z Chelius; for cavity 00 Opuscuoli di Clnrutgi^vo^’i'i.149, and Benedict- abovc died.