443 THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. »t Cesarean operation may be here mentioned:—First. The head of the a child should be pressed up against the front of the womb and the belly by [i; the hand passed through the pelvis up into the womb, and upon it and the white line, the cut made as far as necessary in order to hasten the expul- ki sion of the child (a). Second. After the wound is made in the wall of the belly, immediately the womb, the vagina, and, if necessary, the mouth »i of the womb should be opened at a single cut, and the child drawn out tiji of the womb (b), Third. According to Rietgen (c), a semilunar cut hi should be made from the crest of the hip-bone to near the pubic sym- ,v ohysis, through the skin, whilst an assistant, standing at the patient’s left t) oreast, thrusts down the womb from the right side, by which the skin over ^ :he region of the wound is stretched. A cut of similar extent through n ,he muscles follows that through the skin, care being taken not to wound v he peritonceum. The cellular tissue covering the peritonceum is to be ;r oosened with the fingers, with the handle of the knife, or with the knife i | Itself; and the cavity of the belly undermined. The straight director is ^ aow introduced into the vagina, and so directed that its point pushes the u vagina above the middle of the right linea innominata. The operator It low thrusts the stem of the director through the wall of the vagina, and enlarges the opening with a button-ended bistoury towards the bladder, i i The director is removed and the cut continued towards the rectum upon - he right forefinger. If thje cut can be so made that an edge of two or i hree inches of the vagina be formed on the right half of the neck of the a' vomb, it must be divided obliquely with the scissors; the wound is then Q covered and the passage of the child watched. If necessary, the womb |£ Iso may be cut into on the right side. t Rietgen (</) considers that the wound in the walls of the. belly, made as above r hected, gives but little width, on account of the oblique direction of the descending 0 ibres of the external abdominal muscle, and that for the extraction of the child r second cut is necessary to divide those fibres transversely. Cutting into the mouth »i.nd neck of the womb seems in no case to he dispensed with, and after the first i< at has been made through the cavity of the vagina, must be immediately proceeded 'ith. By thus doing, the division of the hind part of the vagina is unnecessary, and ’■). ie considerable bleeding which accompanies it is thereby prevented, and what there is 1 lay be easily and completely stanched with a sponge dipped in cold water. The best hosen part for the cut into the womb is under that fold of the peritonceum which .! asses upon the round ligament of the womb, and partly lies upon it. Astley Cooper’s jhernial knife answers best for opening the .womb. 1 Bacdelocque’s (e) method agrees almost completely with that of Rietgen. He lakes in the right-sided obliquity of the womb a cut upon the left side of the belly along ■ ie outer edge of the m. rectus, from the navel to an inch or two above the si/mphi/sis. H 'n™W*terS fre dlscharged througb the vagina, the legs and thighs bent, and, with the 1, .5 mtroduced at the lower part of the wound, the peritonaum is separated through- r e, " .°® extent of the iliac pit, and above the iliac artery. One assistant then ■ raws pack the peritonaum and intestines, and another keeps the womb in its place by his : *PPhed to the belly. The operator introduces his hand into the wound, seeks for the icro kTTu and asce,rta,.ns whether any branches pass from it around the vaqina, and if ■ 1 is they.m??t be ?led before he cuts through them. The left hand smeared with I . earned into■ the vagina, which is to be lifted into the wound, and then cut into «own as possible below its insertion into the neck of the womb, and the cut ip ft'\ in GStt. galelirt. Anzcig., 181 <T Joho, \ersuche uml lieitrage, p. 268. Leip Anzeigei> <ler meclianisclien Hiilfen t 5K n nP’ P- 441 • Giessen, 1820. 1 rriihtet^n ""giinstigem Erfol ■Chteten Banchscheidenschnittes und Fob rungen daraus ; in Ileidelberger klinischen Anna- len, vol. i. p. 263. (c) These Inaugurale. Paris, 1823; and Nou- veau Moyen pour delivrer les femmes contrefaites a terme et en travail, substitue a TOperation Osarienne, suivi de reflexions sur ce sujet, par F. T. DuciiAteau. Paris, 1824. 8vo.