465 WATER IN THE HEAD; CLEFT SPINE. 1885. In the congenital internal hydrocephalus, which is developed at * no very determinate period of pregnancy, as also in that occurring after- ,> wards, the walls of the brain are considerably distended by the collection of water in the ventricles, are thinned, and the convolutions unfolded ; the i partition of the ventricles (septum lucidum) is destroyed, and their internal < lining generally thickened ; yet, however, with this great thinning and as :it were membranous extension of the brain, its gray and medullary sub- ■s stances are still distinguishable. In proportion as the collection of water a becomes greater, the still yielding and not yet firmly connected skull-bones bispread out, and the head acquires an enormous size. It is uncommonly Abroad, especially in the region of the ossifying points, because the bones, icspecially those on the sides, are thrust asunder by the water. The face has •no longer an oval, but a triangular form, the forehead projects considerably iiwer the orbits, and there is a remarkable disproportion between the size of 0 ibe face and skull. The skull-bones form slowly, and are connected only Itny a number of intermediate bones. The membranes enclosing the water Niure not unfrequently torn during labour, the water discharged, and the Coverings of the destroyed brain, for the most part, fall together. h 1886. If in great distension of the skull some parts be more yieldin0- o.than others, or the water sink from the fourth ventricle, between tire ow mater and tunica arachnoidea, into the canal of the spine, by which fcthe cartilaginous plates forming, previous to its perfect ossification, jilthe hind portions of the vertebra; are outspread, there are produced : elastic fluctuating swellings covered with a thin, sometimes transparent, ' S \ V£7°US size’ and forming the disease called Cleft Spine (Spina pnjida.) ihese may be diminished by compression, upon which ensue |,-oma, convulsions, palsy, and the like, Several such swellings may Jccur at the same time, so that the fluid may be driven from one to is mother. Their base is sometimes broad, sometimes has a neck, and examination with the finger the edge of the opening in the bone, E flU1? efaped’ is feIt distinctly, its shape round and regular , ,iii U I’ ailr.C oblone 011 the spinal column, where it is formed by ! nvZ!™ of spinous processes. These swellings may be seated at ! specially °tl c S tUl Where, the bones are seParated by the sutures, 1 ojw, y the. forehead, on the sides, and on the back of the head ; i Pine mfiSeVe TS- t(?gether- These swellings are noticed in the I eck’ v1 COmm,°n f 111 the lumbar region, more rarely in the back and • V ery rarely do several exist at the same time in the spine. If atiry W ™TXr ,anJ1C0:e.xist(:Ilce be assumed between internal hydrocephalus K Jnfirmed on numerous grounds ^^annot^h^^15’ bj^d.a’) which opinion is 10 Section of waterinth!^ k ’ , ho,wever’ be denied that a primary f ater in the head AlthoufTthTK.1 2°pinS the. sPmal marrow, may exist without oh rer, probable that it th , 1 the water be not always the same, it is, how- I V«r. 1884.) Gai l noticed™-!1101117 00 ,ect? between the vascular and arachnoid coats. I f the second third aml Wh , TP 6 111 a chlld eighteen days old with a cleft i> >e arachnoid coat dnml - f n th ,lu,m^ar vertebra, and a collection of water within | ft, I I! LugoHo Un‘versaU di Medlcin». vol.xv. ]8,’0. » • VOL. II. ‘ ^ ® Crov. Med. and Surg, Journ., vol. vii. 1844. 2 ii