TYING THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 244 oil the right side, the recurrent laryngeal runs round it, and upon the left , lies between it and the gullet; the subclavian vein lies immediate!} 5 beneath the collar-bone before the artery, and when distended, even upot- | it; and it rests immediately upon the pleura, which, in carrying rounc . the needle, may be easily wounded. If the ligature be applied in the j neighbourhood of the origin of the inferior thyroideal, internal mammary and vertebral artery, the formation of a plug is prevented, and secondary bleeding ensues (a). It is also to be further remembered, that aneurysn of the aorta, or of the arteria innominata, frequently rises so much atom the collar-bone (1), that it may be easily mistaken for subclavian aneu rysm (/>). A. Cooper, Colles, Arendt, Mott, and Hayden, hav performed this operation, but not successfully in any case. The proceeding in this operation is as follows :—A cut three inches ii length is to be made through the skin, and m. platysma myoides, imme- diately above the sternal end of the collar-bone ; a director should be passer* under the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which is to b divided from the bone, or according to Hodgson and Arendt, th sternal origin also. The cellular tissue is then to be divided with th finger, or witli the handle of a knife, till the tracheal edge of the m.sca lenus anticus is reached, behind which the artery is felt passing. It \vi be advisable to draw the artery forth, so that the ligature may be applie beneath the origin of the inferior thyroideal and vertebral arteries. \\ he the artery is surrounded by the aneurysmal needle, very great care mus be taken not to wound the pleura, nor to include any other structure. Dietrich (c) has proposed a modification of King’s operation for the right and le side. Upon the right side a cut is to be made from the middle of the semi-lunar note in the top of the breast-bone upwards, directly in the middle line of the windpipe. I:, then penetrates, in the same way as he proceeds in tying the arteria innominata, in ; the interspace between the two sterno-hyoideal muscles, till he comes to the bifurcatic ; of the subclavian artery. The sterno-hyoideal and sterno-thyroideal arteries are now < he drawn outwards with a blunt hook, and the sheath of the artery carefully slit up. ti the pneumo-gastric nerve and internal jugular vein be seen descending immediate^ before the artery. Upon the left side, a cut is to be made on the inner edge offf j sterno-mastoid muscle, a line from it, nearer the windpipe, which shall extend lor tv and a half inches up, along its inner edge, but so, that it is always a line’s breadth difta from it. A transverse cut of half an inch, is then to divide the skin and sterno-masto- muscle. The cellular tissue in the wound is to be carefully divided, any irregub vein, if cut through, to be tied, and the divided sternal portion of the sterno-masto* muscle drawn towards the left shoulder, with a blunt hook, by an assistant. The out* edge of the sterno-thyroid muscle now appearing, the cellular tissue connecting tt underlying parts is now to he somewhat loosened, and drawn by an assistant towar the right side. The carotid artery then appears in the wound, the internal jugular v*'j in its outer side, and the pneumo-gastric nerve between them. In the lower part of tf ■ wound, opposite the base of the breast-bone, behind, and to the outer side of the carott | lies the subclavian artery. The internal jugular vein is now to be carefully wparaE from the pneumo-gastric nerve and carotid artery, and drawn back with a blu J hook towards the shoulder by an assistant, who also draws the sternal portion of tel muscle in the same direction. The subclavian artery, enclosed in its thick cailolH sheath, now becomes visible; its branches, the inferior thyroideal, transverse cyrwsj vertebral, and internal mammary, are given off somewhat above. The thoracic I ■which here forms its curvature, lies on the inner edge of the sheath of the arWtJj■ ■ also behind the carotid. The artery is now to be somewhat isolated with the hMWj®*] the scalpel, the sheath opened on the outside with a careful stroke of the knife b) w 1 injury of the thoracic duct is best avoided, and then with a curved blunt hoo J ligature should be carried rouud the artery from hehiud forwards, and from a < downwards. (a) HonosoN, above cited, p. 381. (6) Burns, A., above cited, p. 30. (c) Above cited, p.