CONTRACTION OF THE ANUS. 333 • without fissure, if it withstand the previous treatment, is, to cut into e edge of the anus, either at the seat of the fissure or at any other part, he patient should take a mild purgative three days before, and on the orning of the operation a clyster to empty the bowel, and to avoid the .jessity of going to stool for some days. lie should be laid upon his de, as in the operation for fistula in ano, the forefinger of the left hand, led, passed into the rectum, and a narrow, button-ended bistoury intro- iced flat upon it, the edge of which being turned to the side on which ie fissure is, cuts through with a stroke the intestinal membranes, the i ihincter muscle, the cellular tissue, and common teguments, forming a Jiangular wound, the apex of which corresponds to the cavity of the )wel, and its base to the external skin ; sometimes a lengthening- of the tter is requisite, which must be done with a second stroke of the bistoury. |‘, by the escape of the bowel from the edge of the knife, the wound in f£te cellular tissue be higher than in the intestinal membranes, the latter ! ust be further divided with the knife.or with blunt-pointed scissors. In Wiry violent contraction of the anus, two cuts may be thus made, one on i*ich side, and if the fissure be before or behind, it is not to be included in 'line cut. The success of this operation is often very surprising. £ 1625. The dressing consists of a pretty thick plug of lint between the fges of the wound, upon which some wadding and an oblong pad should ! applied, and the -whole fastened with a T bandage. Bleeding but virely occurs, and is easily stopped by a slight pressure. After three r four days, the first dressing is to be removed, and replaced daily till the i ire is completed, which happens in about four or six weeks. Walther objects the introduction of lint and the like as useless and painful, i Upon this subject, see further, 1. Delpech, Precis Elementaire, vol. i. p. 598. : Boyer; in Journal complementaire du Diet, des Sciences Med. Nov., 1818. Baii.lie, Matth., M.D.; in Med. Trans, of College of Physicians of London, vol. v. 136. ' Gaitskell : in London Med. Repository, vol.iv. p. 51. Blackett ; in same, vol. vii. p. 377. Boyer, Traite des Malad. Chir., vol. x. p. 125. Basedow, Ueber die Strictura Ani spastica; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Durn., vol. vii. p. 125. Nevermann, Ueber die Fissur des Afters oder die Strictura Ani spastica ; in Hol- der’s hannoverischen Annalen, vol. i. p. 729. 1626. The narrowing of the rectum, depending on chronic infiamma- on and incipient degeneration of its mucous membrane, is always of slow reduction. At first there is a troublesome itching in the bowel, and a icretion of muco-purulent fluid. By degrees the patient is attacked ith frequent inclination to go to stool, when he strains much and passes nly ^arfl motions, of thinner size than usual: there is a sensation of ful- ess in the course of the colon, but especially in the region of the sigmoid exure ; going, to stool becomes more painful and difficult, digestion fails, •equent belchings occur, with occasional severe colic ; the collection of uol is often so great that the belly becomes swollen, and inflammation nsues. Frequently, if the narrow part be high up, and the bowel below ave ost its expulsive power, the stools squeeze through the stricture in e pieces, collect beneath it, and are discharged in the ordinary sized