18 REDUCTION IN MASS, rupture strictured by the neck of the sac, takes place most easily when the aponeurotic ring is of large size and short; when the sac and its neck are loosely connected to the surrounding parts ; and when the protruded viscera adhere together, anil to the sac, so that reduction in the usual way is impracticable. In a case of internal (direct) inguinal and in another of crural rupture, I found that the tumour could only be returned in a mass, although the neck of the sac was not narrow, in consequence of close adhesions between the protruded parts and their peritoneal covering, (p.113-15.) The following are some of the more important of Luke’s pertinent observations (a) in reference to the existence of a rupture reduced in mass, when without any tumour symptoms of strangulation are present:—“The too exclusive reliance upon the absence of tumour as a sign of the non-existence of a hernia, may, in certain cases, be highly dangerous. In suspected cases, more security will be derived from the institution ol inquiries concerning the previous existence of a tumour in the part, and or its conditions when ascertained to have existed, such as its hardness, or the reverse, its freedom from pain, and also the amount of, and the manner of applying the force used for its reduction. By such inquiries, not only may the dependence of the symptoms of intestinal obstruction upon hernial strangulation be determined, but also the presumption of a reduction en masse may he raised or removed. Should such a presumption be raised, the Surgeon wi then be prepared to push his inquiries further, and to seek for indications to direct his diagnosis, which are not usually sought for in ordinary examinations. The mode ot proceeding to render these indications available to our use, is twofold. 1 hat, howe er, will in prudence be first adopted which requires mere manual examination without incision, while the second should be had recourse to, provided the first tends to strengthen the presumption of a reduction en masse previously raised. . 11 is a circumstance worthy of remark, that the firmness of the adhesions of the parts in which it is imbedded, bears no proportion to the duration of the hernial protrusion, as might be, a priori, expected ; for in all the cases (of reduction in mass) related, the hernia had been of some years’ continuance, yet in each was reduced without the employment o m “CTherpresence of sac, even without hernial contents, causes an abnormal fulness in the part, easily ascertainable by examination. The absence of such fulness in a part, when hernia is known to have previously descended, necessarily leads to the conclusion that the sac upon which it depended has been displaced, and probably returned, together wUh die Tern ta. The sac in inguinal hernia, below the external ring, becomes united with the spermatic cord, whereby the latter is usually rendered indistinct and obscure The absence of that indistinctness and obscurity implies the removal of the cause which previously produced them, and, therefore, that the sac has been displaced. The conti- nuance of Pthe indistinctness and obscurity leads to a directly contrary concluao . When a hernia descends from the abdomen, the aperture through which it descends is always enlarged and dilated. This fact is ascertainable by the introduction of a finger a circumstance which becomes available to the diagnosis in these cases. Should a large Le”be detected, a previous hernial descent may be inferred Under ordinary circumstances of hernia, when the contents are reduced into the abdomen, the area of the aperture is occupied by the remaining sac, while its margins are rendered mo less obscure. If, then, a large aperture be found free and unobstructed, with its margin unobscured there is raised not only a presumptive evidence of the previous protrusioi of a hernia'at the part, but also the further evidence of the displacement and proba t c ££?££& of ,he sac by which .he W tad been mvested. Je ™ M to a contrary conclusion by contrary circumstances. These, I believe, are tne on y indications useful to diagnosis, resulting from changes caused by the previous descent o canal afford any available info^H unless a tumour be discoverable in its course; a circumstance which, by the dearno^ of the evidence it affords, renders the diagnosis comparatively easy, and affirma i i y cLdLive, but constitutes a description of case not intended to be included.nrthe scop* of the present observations, which are directed exclusively to cases unattended j y ““S? TSSSU, ^‘examination of .he «W-e», immediaml; above the »a, of rib inflammatjon^of the hefnial — «jU — wUhXe abdominal parietes, may possibly be cognizable upon a '"“^a^ajon, C,7) Cases of Strangulated Hernia reduced en masse, with observations, in Med-Chir. Trans., vo . ;