445 CUTTING THROUGH THE PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. 1 caches the full period, that on the contrary it not unfrequently remains enclosed and .[ crumpled up in the membranes, which are thickened and hardened; or that in conse- quence of the irritation of tliefoetus, inflammation, adhesion of the neighbouring parts, and throwing off the foetus piecemeal, by suppuration, through the openings of the g abscess or by the rectum, may happen; so that, in most cases, it may be best to assist ”, nature in the discharge of the foetus, in the way just mentioned, by means which m encourage suppuration, and the like. According to Heim (a), most violent pains, and '0 the most pitiable and deplorable condition may exist, and in one case did for ten years. [It is an important question, whether a womb can be ruptured completely, excepting h its peritoneal coat, within which the foetus may be still retained, and so found by the ;i operation of gastrotomy. Blundell (b) thinks it can, and gives as an example i o ,Barlow’s (c) case, in which it is stated “ the uterus was very thin, scarcely exceeding that r of the peritonceum, and equally so throughout the whole extent of the incision.” .$ (p. 159.) Hull (d), however, considered “ that the child had escaped through a Iace- i ration of the uterus into the abdomen, enveloped in the secundines, and that Barlow j; had merely divided the membranes, when he fancied he had divided the uterus.” (. [p. 73.) But Blundell says:—“ To me it appears to have been a case of rupture of the si. muscular substance of the uterus, without rupture of the uterme. peritonceum.” (p. 552.) i Under such circumstances the operation performed would be merely gastrotomy, and ••not the Caesarean.] 1843. When in a tubular or ovarian pregnancy the membranes enclosing Kthe /oefas are torn, or by a rent of the womb, the foetus escapes into the | -avity of the belly, in which latter case the patient, after severe suffering 4 ind labour-pains, feels suddenly easy, and has a sensation of warmth spreading over the belly, the pulse small and quick, and the like, death in [/(general soon follows. i 1844. No definite rules can be laid down for the place and direction of 0 hecut. At the part where the foetus is most distinctly felt, and towards . which an assistant should press it with his hands spread flat on both sides, i cut of about six inches long should be made through the skin and •; nuscles down to the peritonceum, which must be then divided, as in 8 he Caesarean operation. If the foetus be uncovered by the membranes, J 1 may be removed in any convenient way; if it be enclosed, the mem- • oranes must be cautiously separated, the foetus, and afterwards the mem- 'ranes, if not prevented by adhesion (e), and the placenta removed. If qhe fetus be partly in a rent of the womb, it must be taken out cleverly, f possible without enlarging the rent. If separation of the placenta be - mpossible, the navel-string, after having been tied, must be left hanging * mt tbe wound till the placenta come away. The dressing and aftera reatment are the same as in the Caesarean operation. f 1845. If an abscess or fistulous opening have already formed, it must be !f. into or enlarged for the purpose of removing the foetus whole or 'lecemeal (/). VI.-OF CUTTING THROUGH THE PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. {Synchondrotomia, Lat.; Schoosfugenschnitt, Germ.; Symphysdotomie, Fr.) ingtrm’ Eplstola de emolumentis Sectionis synchondroseos Ossium Pubis. Groe- ^icault, Discours sur les avantages de la Section de la Symphyse du Pubis. Paris, ’^0Vp^,^rCheS Mst0riques et Pratiques sur la Section de la Symphyse du "b®r SchwanRerschaften aus- (c) Medical Records and Researches. London, 8vo. (d) Defence above cited. (ff) Veiei. ; in Wiirtemb. Med. Correspon- denibl. 1840. (f) hm./ni" . ,’ , ' "• denibl. 1840. ’ lssert- de I.aparotomia, novissimoquc ejus exemplo. Viteb., 1811. 4to.