618 CUTTING FOR THE STONE IN WOMEN, or the pudic artery; and in removing a large stone, there is fear irritating the cellular tissue attaching the urethra and of palsy of tl neck of the bladder, in consequence of the bruising and draggir. which it suffers (a). 2123. In the horizontal cut on one (usually the left) or on boi sides, the cut is made either with a narrow blunt-ended bistoury, wit a common stone-knife, with a cutting gorget upon a staff, or director of which the groove is directed towards the side; or with Frere Come lithotome, or with a proper single or double-cutting instrument, ar, its enlargement effected with the gorget, the finger, the forceps, ( the dilators. In this mode of cutting, the vagina indeed is safe fro: injury, but damaging the pudic artery is more to be dreaded. Le Cat’s method with the grooved staff.—Horn’s dilating lithotome.—Franco1 cutting forceps.—Louis and Flurant’s double-edged lithotome cache'.—Le Blanc> single-edged lithotome, and the like.—Compare also Behre. [Liston employs the horizontal cut, but not to the extent here mentioned. E says:—“ The best mode of extracting foreign bodies from the bladder is to wide the urethra gradually by means of the screw-dilator, then by the introduction of straight blunt-pointed knife to notch the neck of the bladder slightly towards eac ramus of the pubes, so as to divide the dense fibrous band encircling it; the diU tation is continued, and in a few minutes the finger can be admitted; the stone ca then be readily grasped by a pair of forceps, and it is astonishing how large : body may he removed by these means. Incontinence of urine may follow tl operation from the distension of the sphincter of the bladder; but in a few wee! this will generally cease. The mode of proceeding above recommended is b much to be preferred over the mere dilatation, as being less painful and more rapi in execution; and looking to the after-consequences, it is undoubtedly preferabl to extensive incision of the neck of the bladder with or without wound of th vagina.” (pp, 525, 26.)] 2124. In the vertical cut upiuards, formerly advised by Colot (b) and recently by Dubois, after the patient has been properly placed a staff is introduced into the urethra with its groove upwards; am whilst the operator holds it with his left hand, he presses its bad against the lower wall of the urethra, by which its canal is expanded for the purpose of its more ready division. A narrow-pointed single edged bistoury, with its edge a little directed to the left so as t* avoid the clitoris, is now passed in, and whilst the two instrument- form an angle, the point of which corresponds to the neck of tm? bladder, and the base to the permanent, the canal of the urethra ant the neck of the bladder are divided. After the knife has been with! drawn, a gorget is introduced on the groove of the staff, and upow it the forceps (c). Riciierand (cl) and Dupuytren employ for thm operation Frere Come’s lithotome, which having been introduce through the urethra into the bladder with its edge above, and ratliei inclined to the side, is withdrawn, whilst its blade is projected. [Bkodie performed an operation which is a modification of the vertical eu upwards. He says, he “was informed it had been adopted by an eminent P viucial Surgeon, and had not been followed by the usual incontinence of urm « I introduced,” says he, “a bistouri cache into the urethra, having previously n the screw in the handle of the instrument, so that the cutting edge could no ^ made to project more than to a very small extent; perhaps to about one-sixtn (n) Klein, Prakt. Ansichten u. s. «., part ii. (6) Ambr. Parei, Opera, edit. GfU.i.E*1*10 ^ n 1.—SCUREOER, Uhirurgische Venuclie, vol. il. lib. xvi. cap. xlvii. p. 506. * * (c) Dufuytrkn, Lithotomie, 51. P* (d) Nosographie Chir., vol. iii. p. 558. Fifth Edition.