39 TREATMENT OF INTESTINE. (2) Although there may be little fluid in the sac, yet it is not unfrequent to have it pour forth freely from the cavity of the belly after the protruded parts have been returned. I recollect having a case in which blood-red fluid escaped so largely that I almost feared I had divided some vessel; however, it ceased before the patient was removed from the table. Callaway tells me of an instance in which, after the return of the intestine, a large quantity of honey-like fluid poured forth, he presumes from an ovarian dropsy having been wounded : the patient, however, recovered.—J. F. S.] 1176. The reduction of the intestine may be rendered difficult or impossible— 1. By adhesiotis, 2. By disorganization, 3. By gangrenous destruction. 1177. If the connexion of the parts with each other depend on a gela- tinous substance, it can be easily destroyed with the finger. Filamentous adhesions having been made tense, maybe divided with the knife, the edge of which is to be turned towards the hernial sac, rather than towards the intestine. But if there be a fleshy adhesion between the sac and its con- tents, the practice is different, according as the adhesion is between the omentum and the hernial sac, or between the omentum and the intestine. In the former case the omentum must be divided, as near as possible to the adhesion, with the knife or with the scissors. If the omentum adhere to a considerable extent to the sac, it must only be divided at the neck of the sac, surrounded with some linen overspread with cerate, and when the inflammation has subsided, it should be divided near the abdominal rino-. (According to Scarpa, it should be tied and tightened daily till it fall off?) *1 he omentum often returns into the belly whilst surrounded with the linen (1). In the second case, after the strangulation is relieved, the intestine must be left quiet in its place, covered with compresses moistened in and often wetted with decoction of marsh-mallows (2). It is frequently observed that the piece of intestine gradually returns into the belly. If it remain partially in the abdominal ring, it becomes covered with granula- 10ns and adheres to the integument. The same practice must be pursued in the natural connexions between the intestine and the hernial sac, when they render reduction impossible. M owf V il SUCi1 CaSetS overfilled mtestine has been punctured with a large needle *°> and SO consolidated wtth, the surfhce'of"thS"2f a.Ut'7""t”i‘ returned 2% SlLA^nX T A^ undisturbed, and no ill consequences 6hivp Stllctu^e’ 1 have left the adhering omentum Thomas’s Museum wLre tMs ^rt;^ enSUed\ But, thei'e is a preparation in St. stricture, returned’into the bellv vet Pu[sued’ and tlle gut, after division of the patient died ; and, on examimtfo/ it wit of strangulation continued, and the upon the intestine as it lay tral.svergely behin^it^She ,formed a tight cot'd pletely prevented the passage of the contents of tl, t the br‘m of the pelvis, and com- as h the SWR'SSlSftS (n) .(ournal von GbaKfs und Waj.ther, vol. iii. p. 055.