FROM THE CARPAL BONES. 965 like manner; the cut between the bones being first made, and then a lon- gitudinal cut along the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal, both these con- nected by a transverse cut on the back of the hand nearer or farther from the carpus, the soft parts dissected back, the joint divided and the volar flap made (2). (1) von Walther (a) proceeds in the same way in extirpation of the middle and ring- nger, together with removal of the hind part of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger. Astley Cooper (b) also operated successfully in the same way. • ti • Riadore’ i Guthrie, von Graefe, von Walther, and Jaeger have removed in tins manner the last two, and Astley Cooper the outer three and the first metacar- i5 e ?1>e "i1”1 t e t lum^’ so that the forefinger alone remained, and served as a very W,c h°0k' LARR^ a?d RiaI)°RE removed the second, third, and fourth metacarpal fifth ’rSerV1inf tke thumb; and Tyrrell took away successfully the fourth and second wT1^0116! Wlt ‘ ^ Plslh°rmand unciform bones, and the half of the first, hand the fi t llr(i metacai'Pal bones. Benaben (c) extirpated, instead of the whole and cm off thp !1 serand “etacarpal bones, the scaphoid, great, and trapezial bones, finders 6 UPP6! palt of tlle 11111,(1 metacarpal bone, preserving the outer three ?n exafticulation of the four metacarpal hones, but preserving the thumb, a double-edged knife is passed in, whilst the hand is supine, on the ulnar side, at the junction of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, thrust between the other metacarpal bones and the soft parts of the palm to the junction of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger, where it is a Ann °Uf’ W" St u16 thumb is abducted- By cutting obliquely outwards a Hap is formed; then a semicircular cut is made on the back of the hand faepnfhtbhe fkin, “'I ^ndonS’ and the J°ints opened on the palmar sur- -nd £ flf lymg l"° ^the over *■» Tkoccon (e) makes first the cut on the back of the hand, cuts through whikt'th beSinning on the radial or ulnar side, and forms a palmar flap, Iwmvards “ Camed mt° th® °Pened Joint aild drawn forwards and it h vprJh,!idlSefSe is confined t0 merely one or other metacarpal or metatarsal bone iiSSltnTfZt aw°tf nLg- 1° BlANDItN VI t0 remove that alone, and f ... • , others , with which opinion Jaeger also agrees. table and held 'hr drst metacarPal bone, the hand is placed on its ulnar edge upon a the other the fl5 fi y by a“ assistant’ "ho g™sps on the one side the thumb, and on cutfour& The operator makes, along the muscles of the thenar em ^ finger-otnt of fherefi^eadtht '°ng’,W!Uch mas‘ exteud a little beyond the carpal asunder8 6 * matacarPal bone. The edges of the wound are drawn carpal bone to the^demost°US ***** Which couuect the meta‘ Mtremovii^th'efecond^mctanrmU6 method ls the same, with but little variation. In St to the rest, the part of the inncr'trnn W0Undl.ng the radlal artery is unavoidable. As ri'to the phalanx must be left the • . aiisverse| ligament of the metacarpus, corresponding this is half done and the bone half* be.°P|ened from behind forwards, and when none, ana the bone half dislocated, the kn fo must, be lifted „n hefn™ 'ofaxiH°Upn352Rr Chlrnrgie un<l Augenheilkunde, ip.(423LeCtUrPS On SurRery> by Tyrke.-l, vol. ii. g.J<0 Revue Medicale. 1825 : vol i r> Ifdiw Jaeoek- above cited,p- .. t J Mainoault, above cited, pi. ii.—Chirurg. Kupfertaf., pi. lxxiii.—Genboui, ; in Revue Mc- dioale. 1827 ; vol. ii. p. 143. (e) Nouvelle Methode pour 1’Amputation du 1 oignet, dans son Articulation carpo-metacar- pienno. llourg, 1826. Cf) Gazette Medicale de Paris, vol. ii. p. 152- I Oil 1*