474 OPENING THE CHEST WITH A CUT. (n) Laennlc, above cited, vol. ii. p. 0'.9. (Drouin, Nuck, Palfyn, IIeister, Sharp, Leblanc, Rullier, Charles ]fi Laennec, Wattmann, Schuh, Krause, and others); s. by dividing the skin and must by layers with a funnel-shaped cut and the division of the pleura to a great ext t (especially Benjamin Bell, Laruey, Zang, Kern, and others.) 1897. Opening the chest with a cut is performed in the following w; The patient should be laid near the edge of the bed, bending over towa: >! the sound side, and his arm brought forwards, so that the light may 1 upon the part for operation. A cut of a full inch is to be made throu : the skin, in the middle between the breast-bone and the spine, on l j right side between the fifth and sixth or sixth and seventh ribs, reckoni .i* from above, but never lower, as otherwise the diaphragm may be eas. 9 wounded ; upon the left side, between the fifth and sixth, to the seventh a ; eighth ribs. The muscles are then divided cautiously down to thepleufM by repeated cuts lengthways, and properly away from the lower edge 1 the upper rib, without completely exposing the upper edge of the low rib, so that the cut is conical, and exposes about an inch of the pleut I If the finger be then introduced into the bottom of the wound, when t h patient holds his breath or inclines a little to the diseased side, and distir i fluctuation be felt, the pleura may be carefully penetrated with the bistoui <$ and the opening enlarged with the button-ended bistoury. If no fluctu 1 tion be perceptible, the pleura, which is frequently thickened, must divided by cutting cautiously. For the discharge of the fluid the patie: | must be inclined towards the diseased side. Deep inspiration, coughin j; and the use of pumps or injections, to assist the discharge, are dangeroi •< The place for opening the chest, when there is no protrusion of the pleura and act. if mulation beneath the external coverings, (locus necessitatis,) has been very various * recommended. Many (Sabatier, Pelletan, Boyer, and others) advise it on the h r side between the third and fourth rib, counting from below, and on the right bet we .1 the fourth and fifth ribs. Others (Chopart, Desault) on the left side, between t second and third, and on the right, between the third and fourth nils. According ' Bell the lowest and most fitting place for the puncture is the interspace between L sixth’and seventh rib, reckoning from above. According to Begin, the cut should .« made at the junction of the two front with the hinder third of the space between t 1 breast-bone and the spinous processes. Cruvelhier holds that the fluid should not ( 1 any account be completely emptied, and therefore the opening may be made where y< a PllH in a very fat person the ribs cannot be counted, the place for the cut may be deta i mined at from four to five fingers’ breadth above the last false rib. Opening the cue ,v.,rt nt n little distance from the spine is objectionable; Decays UUiUi uivu w** . ' , . * , * j" days after, and the opening in the pleura made as will permit (2). Laknneo. abovo cited.,