CLUB-FOOT. 177 ,‘nrsus which is caused by rickets. The participation of the parents in the disease, the isual complication which accompanies rickets; above all, the curvature of the bones of he limbs, serve as sufficient diagnostic marks. The pathognomonic signs, retraction of he heel, stretching of the tendons of the muscles of the calf and the adductors, concavity i >f the sole of the foot, and the curvature of the inner edge of the foot are wanting, i On anatomical examination the bones appear in varus to be brought out of their losition, without prejudice to their natural firmness, from muscular activity, and the height of the body; in false varus, which arises from rickets, the bones are not only •rought out of position by the weight of the body, but also compressed and misformed, a consequence of their softening. [The following interesting case of club-foot was under my care some years ago, in /Inch the cause was at first very doubtful, and led to several operations; but subse- uently I think there could be little doubt that it was hysterical. : Case.—S. P., aged seventeen years, a stout, healthy girl, was admitted April 9, 1837. She has been irregular for several months, and has had three fits, but If what kind cannot be ascertained. About a month ago she went to bed seemingly uite well, and with perfect use of her limbs; but, when she awoke in the morning, her ght foot was immovably fixed, with the sole turned upwards and inwards, so that hen put to the ground, the limb rested on the whole length of the outer margin of the ot. This was accompanied with great pain along the course of the m. peronei. . At the present time the foot is firmly fixed at right angle with the leg, and the sole ces directly inwards, the m. tibialis anticus is in strong action, and its tendon raising the in in front of the ankle-joint. No other tendon or muscle is unnatural. Any attempt ) restore the proper position of the foot causes great pain in the course of the contracted iuscle. In the course of the two following months, a moxa was thrice applied on the calf of e leg, with the hope of stimulating the antagonist muscles to action, but without inefit. May 18. She was attacked with pain on the inner edge of the calf of the leg, followed a little swelling, as if the m. gastrocnemii were in action at that point, and accompanied th slight tenderness. These subsided in the course of a few days, and her condition lerwise remained imchanged. June 15. A stream of cold water was ordered to be poured on her leg, from a height ffive or six feet, for a quarter of an hour every morning. This was persisted in for •eeweeks, occasionally followed by pain; but then given up, as there was an erysi- atous blush about the ankle, which, however, soon subsided. " - July 10. A moxa was put iu opposite the origin of the sciatic nerve t {.lit ComPla!“sof P^.n on the outer side of the calf, but more severe than before ft accompanied with swelling ot the muscle; these have been coming on for the last Fgh%tt£ DS " ab°Ut ^ SiZe °f half 3 ™lnut’ bS not firm aPn the following day she was electrified in the whole length of the m peronei and them across to the m. tibialis anticus. This was continued daily for f short’time si 1 she fancied she could move her great toe a little. * I y 21' 0ne °.r t"’° electric shocks were also passed through the region of the womb I °Pen,° ex?lte ’7° 5 but, after repetition for two or three dS w^givln^p .. produced great pam m the pelvis, without other effect. g P I „ hf •<ile<?trlfc sb°cl{s having blistered the front of her leg, sparks were ordered S Se ce^folvyh^vS', , b°7 a, fortnight 0r three weeks after, Pthe anterior fibia I HAt5? tibialis anticus was divided two iocbes above tie It ely restored, anil the soIemtU be t Sh“'P Tl'1' Moli»n ™ » 'i! tion when left alone and she then! « the ground, but returned to its old ' ! te leg, which continuedfor“ “ the inSteP>and UP the fr°nt 1 iral position bv annlvlnrr r * i , theiefore was necessary to preserve the < stirrup were Attached and ?rom°ite S°lc’ T th.e,sides of which the branches U, was carried uporthe foorg oTtie l! ™, p r0t|*7Vlth .a “rew for adjusting its This apparatus did nnt nnttwn .i & an(l fixed by a circular bandage below the t Boyer’s splint on the outside of tV^ PurPos®> »nd therefore, on the following day, 110re than a^eel? bS <£e?v da! tlw ’ a °0t Piec<-‘’ Tllis continued rOh. n. ’ GVery day the foot was found returned to its old posture, and