TUMOURS IN THE BREAST 788 especially about the nipple, e, Encysted tumours. Stcatomatous a < generation. r), Medullary f ungus. 6, Blood sivellings. i, Hypertroph A careful examination of all the circumstances accompanying the orig^ of such tumours can alone direct the practitioner in his diagnosis. 2450. Chronic inflammatory affection of the lymphatic vessels, or the breast-gland, is specially characterized by it being painful on pressur which is not the case with scirrhus. Chronic abscesses in the brea.j sometimes form exceedingly slowly, as hard swellings, in which only ; a late period, fluctuation is indistinctly felt; but the soft part is alwa-, surrounded to a tolerable extent with a hard swelling. It is more readilii mistaken as malignant, on account of the general health being alwavJ more or less therewith affected. Irritating applications and plaster opening the swelling, poultices, and general treatment, which improv the constitution, effect the cure. Benignant hardening is common observed in young people, most frequently between puberty and tf thirtieth year. The swelling is usually superficial, feels as if a lobe of tl gland were enlarged, as if several were united into one swelling. It movable, has no string-like processes towards the shoulder; there is r pain in the breast, shoulder, and arm; no injuring of the general health no affection of the armpit-glands ; and it is not so hard as scirrhus. Tf disease is in general sympathetic with the state of the womb, and occui in unmarried or married women who continue unfruitful. Its occasiom causes, with previous predisposition from uterine irritation, are ofte mechanical violence, blows, and the like. The swelling enlarges ver slowly, never becomes large, remains long free from pain, and in man. cases, only after years, is accompanied with a stabbing, rheumatic pain. Dispersing remedies, repeated leeching, mercury, hemlock, iodin internally and externally, and means which regulate the functions of th womb and improve the general health, often diminish or entirely dissipat the tumour. But if not, if the swelling increase, its removal is indicatec and on account of its mobility, easy ; and it does not return. On examin ing such tumour, a number of lobes are observed, connected with thici cellular tissue, which, when cut through, look like cow’s udder. After the cessation of menstruation, a swelling of this kind ma; become malignant; it may also disappear before that period, durim pregnancy and suckling, although previously it has resisted all remedies. • 2451. In very sensitive persons, between the ages of fifteen and twenty when menstruation is suppressed, or irregular and scanty, and the white are present, sometimes, if the breast have received a blow or push, then may be very great tenderness to the touch, with or without swelling o one lobe of the breast-gland, and pain running from the breast to tin shoulder and elbow, and not unfrequently to the hand and fingers Previous to menstruation the swelling is greater, but after it of less size The sensibility is often so great that restlessness and loss of sleep ensue the weight of the breast is sometimes unbearable, even in bed, and vomit- ing occurs with the severity of the pain. The skin of the breast unaltered, and without a trace of inflammation. Sometimes only a snia portion, and at other times the greater part of the breast is affected, an sometimes both breasts may be attacked at once. The causes of tins con^ dition are always very irritable constitution and disturbed functions the womb. ,j , Belladonna, opium, extract of hemlock, soap plaster, oiled si > Oh.