129 end of a hand of pork which has previously been well soaked, a few sweet herbs, a couple of onions, and a head of celery; then cut the meat into small pieces. Break the bones, put them back into the soup, and simmer for four or five hours ; let it cool, remove the fat, and strain. Thicken the soup with flour and butter ; add two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and one of soy, four or five glasses of Madeira wine, and the juice of a lemon ; put in the meat of the head and the pork cut into well-shaped pieces, forcemeat balls and egg balls, and serve as soon as the meat is warmed through. MODELS IN WAX.—To produce a wax model proceed to take the mould in precisely the same manner as for a plaster cast (see below), and when the whole is well bound together pour the wax into it ; allow it to cool on the outside to the thickness of about an eighth of an inch, and pour off the remainder, or insert into the mould a smaller quantity and shake it about until a good even coating is obtained. Remove the mould, trim the seams, and in the case of heads, carve out the eyes as in the plaster cast. MODELS OF LIVING BEINGS, To Cast.—Lay the person to be modelled upon his back with the head raised by a bran pillow to the position assumed while walking ; cover the face, or other parts to be cast, with oil of olives, plug the ears with cotton wool, and insert a quill up each nostril, carefully filling in with wool the space between the quill and the nostrils. Next take some plaster of Paris and mix it with warm water to the consistence of cream ; cover the face with the plaster, beginning at the upper part of the forehead, and spread it downwards over the eyes (which must be kept firmly closed) and as far as the lower border of the chin. It the chest and arms are to be taken, cover those parts and work upwards, so as to join the cast of the face. When this has set remove it carefully. The next operation is to prepare a trencher rather deeper than half the head, fill it with liquid plaster, and lower the head (which must previously be well greased) into it. Then turn the person on his face and cast the neck, and afterwards the back. This being accomplished, soak the parts thoroughly in linseed oil, boiled with sugar of lead or litharge ; tie them together ; carefully oil the mould, and pour therein liquid plaster. When the outside is nearly set, scoop out the centre with a spoon, so as to render the cast lighter, and allow the whole to dry, when the strings may be cut, the mould removed, and the edges of the joints smoothed off. The only thing now to be done is to carve the eyes out of the solid mass, otherwise they will of course appear closed. MODELS, To Give a Natural Effect to.—When mountains, hills, roads, &c., are desired to be reproduced in miniature, the task may be readily performed by forming the design in cinders and covering them with brown paper soaked in a thin solution of glue until it is quite pulpy. Allow this to get nearly dry, then by the aid of a pepper-box dust it over with sand, powdered brick or slate, or chopped lichen or moss. Where neces- sary, touch up with colours. Spars or stalactites may be constructed of wood smeared with glue and sprinkled with powdered fluor spar or glass. Water may be represented by a piece of looking-glass, the sides sur- rounded with paper soaked in glue and covered with sand. For windows talc or thin glass may be used. MOLES.—These protuberant spots are easily got rid of by drop- ping upon them, from the point of a glass rod, a little acetic or nitric acid, and allowing it to burn them away. Care must be taken that none of the acid comes into contact with the adjacent skin. MONEYWORT.—This plant, which bears a neat, regular foliage, with a small yellow flower at the foot of each leaf, is found in our meadows 18