202 WATER, To Soften.—Hard water may be softened by the addition of a little borax. It is wholesome for cooking purposes, and greatly improves the water used for washing clothes, &c. It may also be softened by simply boiling it and letting it stand exposed to atmospheric influences. WATERY BRAIN.—The first symptoms of this disease are a heavy, leaden look about the eyes, a dislike to the light, heaviness, and restless sleep, during which the child starts and screams ; the head enlarges, especially the forehead ; this is followed by convulsions and stupor, and then by death. To remedy the evil put a mustard poultice to the nape of the neck, let it remain on for ten minutes, and repeat it every third day. Keep the body cool by means of opening medicine, and the mind free from all anxiety. Put all lessons and books away, and send the child into the fresh air as much as possible. WAX FOR MODELLING.—To one pound of wax add half a pound of scamrnony and a little turpentine ; melt the whole together with oil of olives, putting more or less oil according to the hardness or softness which it is desired to impart to the wax. A flesh colour may be given to the composition by the addition of vermilion. WAX, To Whiten.—Put the wax into a saucepan of water and let it melt. Then, having previously prepared a thin board of hard wood, dip it first in warm water to prevent the wax sticking to it, and afterwards into the pot of wax and water. Upon its removal it will be coated with a thin layer of wax ; loosen this with a knife and slide it off. Dip as before, and so on until all the wax is removed from the water. Spread these thin sheets upon a white cloth, and stand them in the heat of the sun to bleach ; afterwards melt, and form into cakes. Another method is the followingMelt the wax in hot water and press it through a strainer of fine linen ; pour it into a shallow mould, and when it has hardened expose it to the air, sprinkling it frequently with water, and turning it from time to time until it becomes quite white. WEANING BRASH.—With this complaint the infant is griped, purged, and sometimes sick ; the stools are slimy and green coloured. If taken in time it is easy to cure, but if allowed to go on it becomes difficult to subdue, and the child is in danger of wasting away. Give a teaspoonful of castor oil in a little warm milk, and when this has worked give a warm bath for ten minutes, and wrap the child in flannel. Also give three or four drops of sal volatile in a tablespoonful of water three times a day, and if the purging becomes very watery give a teaspoonful of pure vinegar twice a day. Keep the child to the breast until health is restored, then feed on milk and rice boiled in water. WEDDING CAKES.—Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and cut them lengthwise into very thin slices, add one pound of citron, one pound of candied lemon, and one pound of candied orange. Now take four pounds of fresh butter, work it with the hand into a cream, and add two pounds of loaf sugar ; beat the two briskly together for a quarter of an hour ; whisk the whites of thirty-two fresh eggs to a very strong froth, and add it to the butter and sugar ; then beat the yolks for half an hour and mix with the other ingredients. Next take four pounds of best white flour, a quarter of a pound of mace pounded and sifted fine, and the same quantity of nutmegs. Mix the whole well together, gradually adding half a pint of brandy, four pounds of currants, and the almonds. Place in a well-buttered hoop or tin successive layers of cake and sweetmeats, and put into a nice hot oven. After it has risen and acquired a good colour cover it with greased paper, and bake for about three hours. WEDDING CAKES, Almond Paste for.—Pulp one pound of Jordon almonos very fine with rose water, then whisk the whites of three