137 NECTARINES, To Preserve.—Peel and cut the fruit into halves ; simmer in boiling water till it floats ; drain, and boil it with its own weight of clarified sugar ; let stand till the following day, then drain off the fruit; boil the sugar again, and simmer the fruit in it for a few moments ; repeat the process a third time, then let it stand in a warm place for two days, put into pots, and cover closely. NERVE DROPS.—Spirits of hartshorn, eight drops; oil of lavender, four drops. Mix. To be taken in a wineglass of water, or upon loaf sugar. NERVOUS DEBILITY, To Relieve.—Dissolve three grains of sulphate of quinine in six ounces of camphorated julep ; add three drams of volatile tincture of valerian, and half an ounce of tincture of calumba. Mix. Dose : Three tablespoonfuls every four hours. NERVOUS IRRITABILITY, To Remove.—Mix with two ounces of compound tincture of bark, one ounce and a half of camphorated tincture of valerian, and half an ounce of compound tincture of aloes. Dose : Two teaspoonfuls twice a day. NETS, SAILS, OR CORDAGE, To Tan.—Boil one hundred pounds of oak or hemlock bark in ninety gallons of water until the quantity is reduced to seventy gallons ; then take out the bark and lay the cloth or cordage in lightly, but so that it is entirely covered with the liquor ; let it remain in for ten or twelve hours, then dry it thoroughly in the open air. Cloth or cordage thus prepared will last many years longer than that which is not tanned. NETTLE BEER.—Boil in two gallons of water, one peck of nettles, four pounds of malt, a pound and a half of sugar, two ounces of hops, and half an ounce of ginger ; strain, when nearly cold add a little yeast, and bottle while in a state of fermentation. NETTLE STINGS, To Cure.—Rub the wound with dock, rose- mary, mint, or sage leaves. NIGHTMARE, To Prevent.—Carbonate of soda, ten grains; com- pound tincture of cardamoms, three drams ; sugar, one dram ; peppermint water, one ounce. Mix, and repeat the dose several nights in succession. NIGHT-SWEATS (CONSUMPTIVE).—Consumptive night- sweats may be arrested by sponging the body nightly with salt water. NIPPLES (SORE), To Heal.—Rub on a little borax and honey ; or mix together equal quantities of white of egg and brandy, and apply. The following ointment is also recommended:—Spermaceti ointment, half an ounce ; tincture of tolu and powdered gum, of each two drams. Mix. NITRE DROPS.—Mix with a sufficient quantity of water, three ounces of nitre, one pound of sugar, and ten drops of essence of lemon. NOSE (BLEEDING OF THE), To Stop.—Introduce into the nostrils a small piece of lint, previously dipped in some mild styptic, such as a solution of alum, white vitriol, creosote, or even cold water. If this does not succeed in stopping the bleeding sniff some cold water up the nostrils, or place something cold against the spine of the back, either ice or a cold key. An upright posture should be maintained and the arms held up above the head. NOSE (POLYPUS IN THE), To Relieve.—Powder some alum and take it frequently after the manner of snuff. At bed-time plug the nostril with lint dipped in brandy, in which alum is dissolved. NOUGAT.—Blanch and peel one pound of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, cut them into dice, and dry them in an oven, but keep them white. Take three or four spoonfuls of fine sugar, put it ovet a slow fire, and when melted, put in the almonds, and stir with a wooden