8o GOLD PAINT FOR GLASS-WORK—Mix in a crucible half an ounce of silver and a quarter of an ounce of antimony ; pound the mass to a powder, and grind it on a copper plate with water, adding half a pound of yellow ochre. GOLD SIZE.—Mix some very finely-powdered yellow ochre with isinglass or parchment till it is of a yellow colour. Burnish with an agate burnisher. Or, thicken boiled or drying oil with yellow ochre, or calcined red ochre, then grind it to the utmost smoothness. If too thick it may be thinned with oil of turpentine. GOLD SIZE (JAPANNERS’).—Melt one pound of gum-am- moniac, then add eight ounces of boiled or drying oil, and twelve ounces of spirits of turpentine. GOLD, The Value of.—Gold is divided in twenty-four parts, or carats, to the ounce Troy, and the ounce of pure, unalloyed gold being worth £4 5s., it follows that gold of— 22 carats 1 fine to the ounce Troy, is worth 18 ,1 ,, ,1 16 ,, ,, ,, ,. IS >> a a 11 X 2 11 a 1 11 I, IO 11 || || || 9 11 •> a n 1 Standard or sterling gold. GOLD, To Dissolve.—To two parts of nitric acid add one of muriatic acid. This combination forms what is known commercially as aqua-regia, and is of great use to gilders and gold-refiners. GOOSEBERRIES (BOTTLED).—Gather the gooseberries before they have attained their full growth, remove the tops and stalks, and put the fruit into wide-necked bottles, which must be perfectly dry. Cork loosely, set them in a saucepan of cold water, and bring it very gently to the boil. Then draw back the saucepan and let the gooseberries simmer until they assume a shrunken appearance. Take the contents of one of the bottles to fill up the rest, and pour enough boiling water into each bottle to cover the fruit. Cork the bottle close, tie a bladder over the top, and keep in a cool, dry place. When required for tarts or puddings, pour away the water and add as much sugar as would be necessary for fresh fruit, which they closely resemble, both in flavour and appearance. GOOSEBERRY CATERPILLARS, To Prevent the Ravages of.—Remove the soil round each plant for three or four inches in depth, and about two feet in diameter, and with the soil the chrysalides of the caterpillar will also be taken away. Bury the earth thus removed at least eighteen inches or two feet deep, and put fresh soil round the bushes, which will assist in renovating the plants. If carefully done, this process need not be repeated oftener than every third or fourth year. GOOSEBERRY FOOL.—Cut the tops and tails off green goose- berries, and put them into a jar with two tablespoonfuls of water and a little moist sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash. When done enough, beat it to a pulp, work the pulp through a colander, and to every pint of pulp add very gradually a pint of milk, or half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk. Serve in a glass dish, or in small glasses. GOOSEBERRY PIE.—Make a nice puff paste, line a dish with it, stand a small inverted cup in the centre, and having picked, washed, and £ s. d. 3 17 11 3 3 9 2 16 8 2 13 ii 226 i IS S 1 11 io|