35 CHEESECAKES, To Make Superior.—Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk and stand it near the fire ; strain the whey from the curds, breaking the latter gently with the fingers ; rub into the curds a quarter of a pound of butter, the same weight of sugar, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, one ounce of almonds well beaten, a grated nutmeg, half a glass of raisin wine, and six ounces of currants. Line the moulds with a light puff paste, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. CHEESE (COULOMMIERS).—Madame Decanville, a French lady who received a gold medal for the excellence of her Coulommiers cheese, thus describes her method of making it:—In shape the cheeses are round, an inch thick, and four, six, or twelve inches across. They are made of half milk and half cream. The milk is set for twelve hours, and then skimmed. Twelve hours later the skimmed milk is curdled with rennet, and, twenty-four hours after that, the curd and cream, in equal parts, are put together in the moulds spoonful by spoonful, but not in any other way mixed. The tin mould, without top or bottom, rests on a mat of single straws threaded, covering a space sixteen by twelve inches, and the mat on a thin board, which is placed on an inclined shelf to drain off the whey that escapes. When the cheese has been two days in the mould, it is turned out upon a fresh straw mat resting on an osier mat, slightly sprinkled with salt, and turned daily till cured, which in summer is in a fortnight and in winter in three or four weeks. CHEESE (CRAB).—Cut some good double Gloucester cheese into thin flakes, and press with a knife till it is like butter ; add cayenne pepper, salt, mustard, essence of anchovies, Chili and plain vinegar, and mix together to a thick pulp. Serve on toasted bread. CHEESE, To Destroy Mites in.—Brush off as many mites as possible then put it into a tub and cover it with boiling water ; let it remain for about two minutes, then take it out. This will kill all the mites, and improve the cheese by closing up the cracks. CHEESE, To Make.—Make the milk warm, but not hot, and add sufficient rennet to turn it ; cover it over, and when well turned strike the curd down with the skimming-dish and let it separate, still keeping it covered. Put the vat over the tub and fill it with curd, which must be squeezed close with the hand, adding more as it sinks, leaving it finally about three inches above the edge of the vat. Before the vat is in this manner filled, lay the cheese-cloth at the bottom of it, and, when full, draw it smoothly over on all sides. The curd should be salted in the tub after the whey is out. When everything is thus prepared, put a board under and over the vat, then place it in the press ; let it remain two hours, then turn it out, put in a fresh cheese-cloth, and again press it for ten hours ; then salt it all over, turn it into the vat, and press it for twenty hours. The vat should have several small holes in the bottom to let off the whey. CHERRIES (BOTTLED).—To each pound of fruit add six ounces of powdered sugar. Fill the jars with the fruit, shake the sugar over, and tie each jar down with two bladders. Place the jars in a boiler of cold water, bring it to boiling point, and let them remain in the hot water for three hours ; then take them out, and when cool put them in a dry place. They will keep good for a year or more. CHERRIES (PRESERVED).—Select a quantity of large cherries, not very ripe, take off the stalks and remove the stones, saving the juice which runs from them ; take an equal weight of white sugar and make a syrup of a teacupful of water to each pound, set it over the fire to dissolve, and when boiling hot add the juice and cherries ; boil gently until clear, then with a skimmer remove the fruit and spread it upon flat