4 *7 raked in. In June thin the plants out ten or twelve inches apart. The roots of the red kind, which require good mellow ground to bring them to perfection, will be fit to take up in November. BEETLES, To Destroy.—To four parts of powdered borax add one part of flour ; mix, and sprinkle near their haunts. Or, mix four parts of plaster of Paris with one part of oatmeal. Apply as above. Equal quantities of black pepper and flowers of sulphur, mixed and distributed about their runs each evening for about a week will also have the desired effect. BEETLE WAFERS.—Mix equal weights of red lead, sugar, and flour; roll it into sheets, cut into small squares, and place them near the haunts of the insects. BELVEDERE TEA CAKES.—Take a piece of butter the size of an egg, with the same quantity of lard, and mix them well into a quartern of flour; then beat up four eggs till they are light, and add thereto a pint of milk; pour these gradually on to the flour, and add a teaspoonful of salt; work it for about ten minutes, pull it into pieces, roll them out to the size of a breakfast plate, and bake in a hot oven. BERLIN BLUE, To Make.—Mix one ounce of the best powdered indigo with four ounces of sulphuric acid, in a glass body or matrass, and digest it for one hour, with the heat of boiling water, shaking the mixture at different times ; then add twelve ounces of water to it, stir the whole well, and when cold filter it. BIGNONIA CAPREOLATA.—This plant, known also as the tendrilled trumpet-flower, strikes easily from cuttings. It requires plenty of room to spread about, and if planted at the foot of a south wall and covered with litter it will survive our winter. BIRDLIME.—Boil the middle bark of the holly for seven or eight hours, until it is tender, then drain off the water and put it in an underground pit, in layers of fern, and surround it with stones. Leave it to ferment for two or three weeks, until it forms a kind of mucilage ; then pound it in a mortar till it becomes a mass, and rub it well between the hands in running water ; when all the refuse is worked out, place it in an earthen vessel and leave it for four or five days to purify itself. Should any of it stick to the hands it may be removed by means of a little turpentine or oil of lemon bottoms. BIRDS’ EGGS, To Preserve.—Clean away, by means of soap and water, any dirt which may be upon the shell, using for the purpose a soft brush ; then make a medium-sized hole at the sharp end of the egg, and prick a small hole with a needle at the thick end ; apply the mouth to the latter and blow out the contents. If the yolk is hard to get out, run a thin wire into it and stir it about; it may then be blown out with ease. Immerse the thin end in a glass of water, suck some into the shell, and shake it about so as to thoroughly cleanse the inside. To preserve the thin white membrane inside, fill the shell with a solution of corrosive subli- mate of alcohol, and shake it about so as to ensure its coming in contact with every particle of the membrane ; blow the solution out, and give it a very thin coat of gum arabic. BIRDS, QUADRUPEDS, &c., To Stuff.—Remove the skin carefully, leaving entire the skull, horns, hoofs, tail, &c., of large animals, and the skull and beaks of birds ; remove the brains through a cavity made in the mouth : rub the inside of the skin thoroughly with a mixture of alum, pepper, and salt, and stretch it out evenly in a cool, airy place. When perfectly dry proceed with the stuffing. For this purpose hay, hemp, oakum, wool, or any suitable substance is used,