56 are added. They need to be handled very lightly, and should not boil longer than twenty minutes otherwise they become hard. DUMPLINGS (NORFOLK).—Take half a pint of milk, two eggs, and a pinch of salt, and mix them with flour to a thick batter ; roll , into balls, put into boiling water, and boil from twenty to thirty minutes. Send to table with sugar, or butter and treacle. DUMPLINGS (OXFORD). —Grated bread, two ounces; currants and suet, of each four ounces ; flour, two large spoonfuls; grated lemon peel, sugar, and allspice, of each a small quantity. Mix with milk and a couple of eggs, form into four or five dumplings, and fry in batter to a light brown. Serve with sweet sauce. DUTCH DROPS, for Cold, Pains in the Back, or Undue Urinary Retentions.—Oil of turpentine, one ounce; spirit of nitric ether, one ounce; tincture of guaiacum, one ounce ; oil of amber, half a dram ; cloves, half a dram. One teaspoonful to be taken three times a day. DUTCH TERRAS, for Outside Walls.—Grind some basalt to a fine powder, then mix some blue argillaceous lime with water, and beat the whole together. DYSENTERY, Remedy for.—Beat an egg up lightly with a little sugar, and swallow it at a gulp. This tends to lessen the inflammation of the stomach and intestines, and to form a transient coating on these organs. In ordinary cases two or three eggs a day are sufficient. DYSPEPSIA, To Prevent.—Nausea and dyspepsia may be pre* vented by drinking a cup of hot water before meals. EARACHE, Cure for.—Mix a little sulphuric ether with an equal quantity of oil of almonds. Let the sufferer recline on a couch with the affected ear uppermost, and have a couple of drops inserted into it. It usually affords relief. Or, a drop or two of laudanum or glycerine warmed in a spoon may be applied in the same manner, in either case introducing afterwards a piece of soft wool. EARS, To Relieve Noise in the.—This unpleasant affection may in many cases be relieved, and sometimes permanently cured, by dropping into the ear a little warm onion juice. A good nourishing diet is essential, and if necessary a tonic should be taken to create an appetite. EARWIGS, To Destroy.—Drive some stakes into the ground and place inverted flower-pots upon them, or hang clean tobacco-pipe bowls or hollow bean-stalks among the foliage. These should be examined twice a day, and their living contents emptied into boiling water. The insects will more generally be found upon dahlias, pinks, and roses, to which they do incalculable damage. ECZEMA.—To one tablespoonful of carbolic acid, and the same amount of glycerine add twenty ounces of water. Apply externally night and morning, or whenever the irritation is felt, rubbing it well into the flesh with the hands. Or, mix thirty grains of red oxide of mercury and one ounce of lard. Apply frequently to the parts affected. Avoid stimulants and acids. EEL PIE.—Choose some middling-sized eels, skin, and cut them into pieces about two inches long ; season with pepper, salt, mace, parsley, and mushrooms ; lay the fish in a dish with a few bits of butter, a tea- cupful of veal stock, and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Cover with a light paste, and bake one hour. EELS (BOILED).—Choose the smallest for this purpose. Remove the gut, heads, and skin ; wash them well, and simmer in a small quantity of salt and water, with chopped parsley. Garnish with sprigs of pars- ley, and serve with parsley sauce, that is, melted butter and chopped parsley.