39 CHUTNEY.—Gently dry and bruise one pound of mustard seed and add thereto one pound of salt; make a syrup by adding one pound of brown sugar with a pint of vinegar ; dry two quarts of unripe gooseberries and boil them in a quart of vinegar ; and bruise in a mortar twelve ounces of garlic. Now take one pound of stoned raisins and six ounces of cayenne pepper. When the gooseberries are cold, gradually pound the whole of the ingredients together, and thoroughly amalgamate them with a pint of vinegar. Put into jars and tie down close. It will improve by keeping. CHUTNEY, Good Lucknow.—Table salt, one pound; mustard seed, one pound ; stoned raisins, one pound ; brown sugar, one pound ; garlic, twelve ounces ; cayenne pepper, six ounces ; green gooseberries, two quarts ; strong vinegar, two quarts. Dry and bruise the mustard seed gently, mix the sugar with a pint of the vinegar until a syrup is obtained, dry and boil the gooseberries in a quart of the vinegar, and bruise the garlic well in a mortar ; when cold, gradually mix the whole in a large mortar, and thoroughly amalgamate it with the remaining pint of vinegar. Tie down close. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. CHUTNEY, Superior Bengal.—Boil nine or ten green codlins in a pint and a half of vinegar, and when soft pass through a sieve so as to remove the pips, core, and skin ; then add half an ounce of cochineal, one dram of powdered cinnamon, one dram of black pepper, half a dram of powdered cloves, half a dram of powdered nutmeg, two drams of powdered coriander seed, two drams of crushed mustard seed, an ounce and a half of powdered ginger, a small head of garlic chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of Demerara sugar, a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins chopped fine, two drams of cayenne, fifty red capsicums, and a quarter of a pound of salt. Boil over a clear fire for twenty minutes, stirring the whole time ; put into bottles, and when cold tie down with bladders. Will keep for ten or a dozen years. CIDER CUP.—Put a well-browned toast into a cup with a little grated ginger and nutmeg, add two glasses of sherry and a fresh borage leaf, then fill up with cider. CIDER, To Bottle.—Before bottling cider draw off a small quantity in a glass, and, if it is not perfectly clear, clarify it, and let it stand for ten or fourteen days ; then withdraw the bung and let it remain so for twelve hours ; fill the bottles, and leave them uncorked for a day. If wanted for immediate consumption put a small piece of loaf sugar in each bottle. Keep it in a cool cellar. CIDER, To Make.—Gather a quantity of fully ripe apples and lay them in a loft for a fortnight to grow mellow. Crush them to a pulp, put this into a strong, coarse bag, and with a heavy weight press out the juice into a large, open tub, and keep it at the heat of sixty degrees. As soon as the sediment has subsided rack the liquor off into a clean cask and stand it in a cool place till the following spring, when it may be re-racked for use. CIDER, To Preserve.—Cider may be kept sweet by adding to each barrel of the same one quart of fiue charcoal, or a couple of quarts of pure alcohol, or one gallon of brandy. CINERARIAS, To Grow.—These brilliantly-tinted flowers, although too tender for out-door growth, deserve cultivation as pot plants, as they may be had in flower from December to May. They can be multiplied by seed, cuttings, or root divisions, and will grow in any garden soil. The plants require to be kept just moist. CINNAMON WATER.—Steep one pound of cinnamon bark for four or five days in a gallon of brandy and the same quantity of water, then distil off one gallon.