100 colours a very small portion of printers’ black ink may be added ; but this must never be amalgamated with such colours as red, magenta, &c., as it would so alter the shades as to spoil them completely. INK (RED), A Cheap.—Boil together slowly for one hour in an enamelled vessel two ounces of Brazil wood, half a pint of diluted acetic acid, and a quarter of an ounce of alum ; strain, and add half an ounce of ground gum. INK (SCARLET), To Makea Good.—Dissolve ten grains of pure carmine in an ounce and a half of liquor ammonia, and add ten grains of gum-arabic. INK (SILVER), To Prepare.—Silver ink, for writing upon cards or for other artistic work may be made from silver leaf in precisely the same manner as directed for preparing gold ink. INK (SYMPATHETIC).—A weak solution of chloride or nitrate of cobalt makes a good yet simple sympathetic ink. To render it legible hold it before the fire, and to erase it submit it to moist air. The most curious, perhaps, of the many invisible inks that are made is that prepared from cobalt. Dissolve some zaffre in muriatic acid till the acid extracts the metallic part of the cobalt, which gives to the zaffre its blue colour. Then dilute the solution, which is very acrid, with common water, w'hen it is fit for use. The writing may be made to appear and reappear at pleasure by submitting it to heat ; as the paper cools the writing fades away, but it may be made visible again by holding it to the fire. The paper must not be over-heated, or the characters will become perma- nent. INK, To Prevent the Moulding of.—A little spirits of wine and oil of cloves added to the ink before it is boiled, or a few cloves placed in a bottle of cold ink will prevent it becoming mouldy. INK SPOTS FROM BOARDS, to Remove.—An application of strong muriatic acid or spirits of salt, afterwards scrubbing the part with soap and water, will effectually remove ink stains from floors, &c. INK SPOTS FROM COLOURED ARTICLES, To Remove. —Soak the spots in a saucer of milk until they are very faint, then rub, and rinse in cold water. This will generally remove ink from such articles as would be ruined by the application of acids. A teaspoonful of oxalic acid mixed with a teacup of hot water may be rubbed upon such articles as possess fast colours. INSECT POWDER.—Fresh green pennyroyal, powdered and sprinkled about, will be found effectual in keeping away moths, cock- roaches Scc. INSECTS ON PLANTS, To Destroy.—Dredge the leaves and young shoots with powdered sulphur ; or apply to the stems and branches a thin mixture of oil of turpentine and soap. INSECTS, To Destroy the Eggs of.—Put into about four gallons of water half a pound of tobacco, half a pound of sulphur, and a quarter of a peck of lime ; stir well together, leave to settle, and syringe the in- fected trees or walls with the clear liquid. More water may be poured upon the sediment when the first is all used. INSECTS, To Extract the Stings of.—Press the barrel of a watch kev over the sting, which will expose it, when it may readily be removed with the fingers or a small pair of tweezers, and cover the part stung with a piece of lint soaked in extract of lead. INSECTS, To Prevent Attacks of.—A little turpentine rubbed on the skin will effectually prevent attacks from insects. INTEREST, To Calculate.—Multiply the pounds by the number of days for which it is required to ascertain the interest ; this sum, divided