and pepper, and let them stew for five minutes, during which time beat up the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful of cold water and a little lemon juice. When the sauce sets, dish up the vegetables, and serve at once. POTATOES (BROILED).—Boil the potatoes till they are rather more than half cooked, then remove the jackets, flour them, and lay them on a greased gridiron over a clear fire. Serve with f'esh butter. POTATOES (FRIED).—Peel the potatoes and throw them into a pan of cold water as they are done, so as to preserve their colour ; cut them into thin slices, and fry in a pan of hot fresh butter. They should be cooked slowly till of a clear brown colour. POTATOES, Irish Method of Cooking.—Wash the skins free from every particle of dirt, cut a thin slice off the end of each potato to prevent the skins breaking, put them into cold water and bring them gradually to near boiling point, then add more cold water, thus checking the heat from time to time until the vegetables are cooked, without having actually boiled ; pour the water off and let the skins dry before peeling. POTATOES (NEW), To Cook.—The sooner these are eaten after they are taken from the ground the better they taste. Scrape off the skins, put into scalding water, and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain, sprinkle with salt, put over them a few pieces of butter, and serve. If very young send to table accompanied with butter sauce. POTATOES (ROAST).—Wash and wipe them dry, cut a small piece from the skin of each, rub them all over with butter, and roast in an oven. The above method makes them nice and crisp. POTATOES, The Cultivation of.—In the cultivation of the potato, one of the most important features is a change of seed. They require rather deep, light sandy soil, well drained, and of a dry nature, and thrive best on ground that has been heavily manured for some green crop the previous season. Cut the root so that each piece of the potato has one or two eyes, and plant them in March or April in rows two feet asunder, twelve to fifteen inches distant in the row, and three or four inches deep. The main crop may remain in the ground till October or November. POTATOES, To Preserve.—To prevent potatoes germinating during the period of storage, place them in a wicker basket, and steep them for a few minutes in a copper of boiling water. Dry in a warm oven, pack in sacks or baskets, and protect them from frost and damp. POULTRY, To Fatten Quickly.—Shut them up in small coops, which must be kept very clean, and feed them upon barley meal mixed with water. No water should be given to them except that which is mixed with the meal. It is essential to keep the board upon which the food is placed well washed, otherwise the birds stand in danger of contracting the pip. POULTRY, Winter Food for.—A considerable saving in the cost of the food, with a more plentiful supply of eggs, may be effected by furnishing the birds with nettles. Gather the nettles in good time, dry them like hay, and store them in a dry place. When winter comes round, take a portion of them every day, boil your bran in some water, and when boiling throw in the nettles, chopped fine ; take the pot off the fire, cover it with the lid, and let the nettles steep for ten minutes ; stir together, and, when cold, give it to the poultry. POUND CAKE, Ingredients for a Rich.—A pound and a half of butter, two pounds and a quarter of flour, four pounds of currants, a pound and a half of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of mixed peel, half a pound of blanched almonds, fifteen eggs, and, if approved of, a glass of brandy. 22