182 SOAP (ALMOND).—Cut into slices four pounds of white tallow soap, melt it in a copper pan by the heat of a water bath, add one ounce of essential oil of almonds, and pour into moulds. SOAP (CHEMICAL).—Put into a basin half a pound of fine rice powder, two ounces of powdered bismuth, three ounces of orange- flower water, and half an ounce of essence of ambergris ; mix well together, then add one pound of finely grated white oil soap ; beat the whole twice a day for five days ; cut into squares, and dry upon sheets of paper in a very slow oven. SOAP (CINNAMON). —To five pounds of yellow soap add three pounds of palm-oil soap, two ounces of essence of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of bergamot, and two ounces of yellow ochre. Mix over the fire, and pour into moulds. SOAP (HONEY). —Cut into thin slices a pound of curd soap, put it into a saucepan with a pint of sweet milk ; simmer till the soap is melted, then add a couple of spoonfuls of honey, and simmer again till the whole is well mixed ; scent it with oil of lavender or bergamot, and put it into shapes. SOAP (ROSE).—Mix twelve pounds of olive oil soap with eight pounds of best tallow soap, and half a pint of water. Melt in a covered copper pan by means of a water bath. Colour with an ounce and a half of finely levigated vermilion, and when the mixture has cooled a little, add an ounce and a half of otto of roses ; or an ounce and a quarter of essence of bergamot; or else three-quarters of an ounce of oil of cloves, and a like quantity of oil of cinnamon. SOAP (TRANSPARENT), To Make.—Cut into thin slices twro ounces of white Windsor soap, put it into a jar, and pour over it half a pint of alcohol, with a small quantity of any vegetable hue ; the latter only to be used if it be desired to colour the soap. Expose the jar to a gentle heat, and when the soap has become thoroughly blended with the spirit, add a few drops of perfume, and pour into small moulds to cool. SODA WATER POWDERS.—Dissolve thirty grains of car- bonate of soda in half a pint of water, then add twenty-five grains of tartaric acid ; stir, and drink at once. One pound of carbonate of soda, and thirteen and a half ounces of tartaric acid will make 256 powders at a cost of about half a crown. In making them up in quantities the soda should be put into blue papers, and the acid in white, after the usual manner of papering up seidlitz powders. SOLDER FOR LEAD.—Lead, two parts; tin, one part. Apply rosin before putting on the solder. SOLDER FOR PEWTER.—Bismuth, three parts; lead, two parts ; tin, one part. SOLDER, FOR SILVER, BRASS, OR IRON.—Melt to- gether five pennyweights of silver and four pennyweights of brass. SOLDER (GOLD).—Pure gold, twelve pennyweights; pure silver, two pennyweights ; copper, four pennyweights. Fuse together. SOLDER (SILVER).—Fuse together nineteen pennyweights of fine silver, one pennyweight of copper, and ten pennyweights of brass. SOLDERING WITH TINFOIL.—Dip a feather in a solution of sal-ammoniac and apply to the surfaces of the metal to be joined ; place a piece of tinfoil between, and put the whole on to an iron plate, sufficiently hot to melt the foil. When cold the surfaces will be found to be firmly united. SOLES (BOILED).—Gut and skin the fish, wash them in clear water, then lay them in salt and water with a little vinegar for two hours. Put them into a stew-pan with an onion, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, cover