8 ARTICHOKES (PICKLED).—Gather the young artichokes directly they are formed, and put them into boiling brine for two minutes ; drain them dry, and when cold put them into jars and cover them with hot vinegar, adding a little mixed spice. When quite cold tie down the jars in the ordinary way. ARTICHOKES, To Choose.—To ascertain the quality of arti- chokes, break off one of the stalks ; if young and good they wiil break off clear, if old they will be thready. ARUM; or, Snake-root.—This plant gets its name from its handsome stem, the speckled nature of which resembles the skin of a serpent. It bears a very large dark-purple flower, and will grow in any soil, providing it is deep and rather moist. Quite hardy, but does not like to be disturbed and will not flower for a couple of years after transplantation. There is a white-flowered variety, often used to decorate the edges of ponds. This is best grown in pots, the saucers of which are kept half-filled with water, except during frosts. It is propagated by division of the roots. ASPARAGUS (BOILED). — Take fresh-gathered asparagus, scrape the stalks clean, and throw them into cold water ; then tie them up in bundles (about twenty-five in each), cut the stalks to a uniform size, leaving enough at the bottom to serve as a handle for the green part; boil for five-and-twenty minutes in salt and water, and serve on toasted bread with melted butter. To preserve their colour boil them over a fierce fire. ASPARAGUS, Ragout of.—Carefully pick some young asparagus, cut into small pieces, the size of green peas, avoiding to put in hard or tough pieces ; wash in several waters, and throw into boiling water with a little salt. When nearly done, drain in a sieve ; then put into a stew-pan with a little broth, a small piece of butter, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of savory, two cloves, and a couple of green onions, and stir them over the fire for ten minutes ; add a little flour and a small piece of sugar, stirring the whole over the fire. When the asparagus is done, take out the parsley, cloves, and onions, and thicken the ragout with the yolks of eggs beaten with a little cream and salt. ASPARAGUS, To Gather.—The shoots of asparagus may be cut when they are from two to five inches above the ground ; if permitted to run, the heads soon become open and loose and of less estimation. Thrust the knife down close by the side of the shoots intended to be cut, so as not to wound or destroy any young buds that are coming up in succession and do not yet appear, cutting the shoots off slanting, about three or four inches within the ground. The general cutting for the year should terminate about the middle or third week in June, otherwise the roots will be weakened, for so long as the cutting continues the roots wall send up new shoots, weaker and smaller than the previous, to the detriment of the next season’s product. ASPARAGUS, To Grow.—Choose some moderately light, pliable soil, in an open situation, where it enjoys the full power of the sun, dig in a good quantity of rotten dung, divide it into beds four or five feet wide, with alleys two feet wide between each bed. Strain a line lengthways along the bed nine inches from the edge ; then with a spade cut out a small trench or drill, close to the line, about six inches deep, making the side next the line nearly upright, and two or three inches below the surface of the ground. Take some roots devoid of tops, either one or two years old, and place them, at an equal depth, fiat in the bottom of the trench, but nearly upright against the back of the drill, so that the crown of the plants may also stand upright, and two or three inches below the surface of the ground ; spread the roots regularly at the back of the trench, and cover them with the earth. Proceed in the same manner with each row, driving