caster sugar, the juice of six lemons, and the rind of one. Boil the whole for a few minutes, strain, and let it stand till it begins to stiffen ; then beat up the whites of two eggs, add them to the sponge, and whisk till quite white. Wet a mould with cold water, pour in the sponge, and let it stand till it sinks and stiffens. LEMON SYRUP.—To a pint of lemon juice add a pound and a half of sugar, and about half the rind from the lemons ; boil ten minutes, stirring carefully ; strain, and keep it well corked up. Used for flavouring purposes, and, when diluted, as a beverage. LEMON WATER.—Put a couple of slices of lemon with a bit of the peel and two spoonfuls of sugar into a jug, pour in a pint of boiling water, cover it closely, and let it stand for two hours. LENITIVE ELECTUARY.—Finely-powdered senna, half a pound ; powdered coriander seed, a quarter of a pound ; prunes and tamarinds, of each one pound ; and figs, one pound. Mix, and make into an electuary with simple syrup. Dose : A teaspoonful two or three times a day. This is a pleasant laxative for children and females. LENTIL SOUP.—Wash a pint of red lentils in cold water; grease the inside of a saucepan with butter, put in the lentils with an onion cut in quarters, and three sticks of celery cut in pieces, cover the saucepan with the lid, and set it over the fire for five minutes, stirring once or twice to prevent burning ; then pour in three pints of boiling water ; stir well, and simmer from an hour to an hour and a half. Pour the soup through a wire sieve into a basin, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon ; return the soup to the saucepan, and season with pepper and salt. When the soup boils, stir, pour it into a soup tureen, and serve. LETTUCES, To Dress.—Cut them into quarters and lay them in salt and water for ten minutes ; boil them in some good stock, then press them into a good shape. Boil down their liquor to a glaze and add it to some thick sauce ; glaze the quarters, arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce round. LETTUCES, To Grow.—Sow the seed of both cos and cabbage lettuces for principal crop at the beginning of March ; and to have a regular supply, let more be sown about the middle, and more still at the end, of the month, repeating the sowing at regular intervals during April and May, at all times raking the seed in lightly. When large enough to transplant, draw with a small hoe some shallow drills fifteen inches asunder, and plant one row of lettuces in each drill, setting the plants a foot from each other. This should, if possible, be done in moist weather so as to save labour, for they will not succeed if planted out at a season of drought, unless they are kept for a time well supplied with water. A sowing may be made under a south wall in September or October of brown cos or Victoria cabbage lettuces for winter use. LILIES, To Cultivate.—The white, orange, Canada, and Turk’s- cap lilies are quite hardy, suited to the open border, and grow well in ordinary garden soil. The tiger lily flourishes best in heath mould. The Siberian pompone lily prefers a light soil and a shady situation. The tufts of bulbs should be taken up every fourth year after the foliage has gone off, and planted at once at a depth of from three to four inches. LILY OF THE VALLEY.—These flowers flourish best in leaf mould, but may be grown in any light, moist soil. They are generally multiplied by transplanting good-sized patches of the roots. They will make their appearance year after year, bursting into bloom and spreading their roots each season. LIMBS (NUMBNESS OF THE), To Relieve.—Strong liquid ammonia, one ounce ; oil of turpentine, six teaspoonfuls ; laudanum, thirty drops. Rub well into the skin.