210 on no account be rubbed either with soap or by the hand. Squeeze (not wring) out the suds ; throw into the rinse water, squeeze, and dry in the open air or in a warm room, but not too close to the fire. They must, however, be dried quickly, as the longer they remain wet the more likely they are to shrink. WOOL. To Dye it Blue.—Boil the wool in a decoction of logwood and sulphate or acetate of copper. WOOL. To Dye it Brown.—Cover some green walnut shells with a good amount of salt, pour off the liquor which comes from them, and steep the wool in the same. WOOL. To Dye it Drab.—Imbue it with brown oxide of iron, and afterwards immerse it in a bath of quercitron bark. WOOL. To Dye it Green.—First boil it in a decoction of logwood and sulphate of copper, and then dip it in a strong solution of fustic or weld. WOOL. To Dye it Mauve.—To each gallon of water add one tablespoonful of sulphuric acid ; heat to boiling point, then put in the goods, and boil till they have gained the shade required. Rinse in cold water. If too dark, some of the colour may be removed by rinsing in warm soap-suds. WOOL. To Dye it Red.—Take two pounds and a quarter of cream of tartar and two pounds of alum, and boil the wool gently therein for two hours ; hang it to drip dry, and the following day rinse it in clear water. Then infuse six pounds of madder for half an hour with chloride of tin, in warm water ; filter through canvas, remove the dye from the can- vas, put it in the bath, and heat it to ioo degrees Fahrenheit; add one ounce of aluminous mordant, put the wool in, and raise to boiling heat. Remove the wool, rinse, and soak it for fifteen minutes in a solution of curd soap in water. WOOL. To Dye it Yellow.—Boil the wool in an aluminous mor- dant, then dip it in a strong solution of fustic, weld, turmeric, anotta, &c., according to the tint desired. WOOL, To Scour.—Put it into a kettle with a sufficient quantity of water, mixed with one-fourth part of putrid urine ; heat it to a degree that the hand can just bear, and keep it hot for about a quarter of an hour, stirring it frequently with a stick ; then remove it from the bath, and let the water drain away ; place it in baskets, and expose it to the action of running water, and when that which drains from it is no longer turbid, set it to drain, and afterwards spread it in the sun to dry. WORMS FOR FISHING, To Scour.—Procure some long moss, wash it, squeeze out the water, and place the worms in it for a few days. By this means they will both toughen and become more lively. If moss cannot easily be procured spent tea leaves may be substituted. WORMS IN CHILDREN.—Take a pennyworth of the herb known as Indian pink; make it as ordinary herb tea, and sweeten it with sugar ; let the child take it at breakfast time, and a little while afterwards give some senna tea. Or mix a teaspoonful of flour in new milk to the consistence of cream, give to the child the first thing in the morning, and follow it up with senna tea. Common salt injections are good, and a good quantity of salt should be given with the food. WORMS IN THE FACE, To Eradicate.—Squeeze out the worms, and apply one drop of turpentine to the part. The smarting will soon pass off, and the worms will not come again. WORMS IN POTTED FLOWERS.—The most effectual method of getting rid of worms in potted plants is to keep them from water for a day or two, then to turn out the plant, and pick the worm out.