8a apron each time. Next remove the legs and wings, cutting the flesh and jerking the joint back, and then separate the neck and side-bones, and finally the back. After the breast, which is generally served to the ladies, the fleshy part of the wing and thigh are the most favourite portions. GOOSE, To Choose a.—When a goose is young the bill is yellow, which turns red as the bird grows old ; when fresh killed the feet are supple, but when stale they become stiff and dry. They should be large and fat, and the white and grey are much to be preferred to those of a dark colour. GOULARD WATER (SUPERIOR).—To one dram of extract of lead add two ounces of distilled vinegar, half an ounce of proof spirit of wine, and one pint of distilled water. GOUT, To Relieve Pain from.—Steep a piece of lint in camphor dissolved in spirits of wine, and if the pain be severe add a few drops of opium ; apply to the part, and cover with an oiled skin. An occasional poultice made of bran and vinegar often gives relief. GRAFTING, Mr. Kent’s Method of.—Prepare the stock and the graft in the same way as for grafting with clay ; then take a long strip of indiarubber three-quarters of an inch broad, and about the thickness of a shilling ; tie one end of this elastic riband with a thread, well prepared by rubbing with shoemakers’ wax, to the stock, a little below where it is cut for being joined to the graft ; then make the joint as neatly as possible and wrap it round with the riband, taking due care to keep the indiarubber fully stretched, and to make it overlap at each turn fully one- half of the breadth of the previous round, till the whole is covered ; tie the top with a thread in the same manner as it is tied at the bottom, and the operation is so far complete. When thoroughly set, remove the riband, which will be ready for future use. By this method there is scarcely any appearance of a join. GRAFTING WAX, An Excellent.—Melt over a slow fire one pound of ro in ; add one ounce of beef tallow, and stir them together with a piece of wire. When somewhat cooled add one tablespoonful of spirits of turpentine, and then stir in gradually five ounces of alcohol (95 per cent, strength). Should the alcohol cause it to go lumpy, warm again until it melts. Keep in a bottle. Lay it on in a very thin coat with a brush. In a warm room the wax should be of the consistence of molasses. Should it prove thicker, thin it down with alcohol. It is always ready for use, is never affected by the weather, and heals up wounds hermetically. GRAFTING WAX (COBBETT’S).—Take of pitch and rosin, four parts ; beeswax, two parts ; tallow, one part ; melt, and mix the in- gredients, and use while just warm. GRAPES, To Preserve.—Gather the grapes before they become fully ripe and put them into a jar, cover them with brandy, add a little sugar candy, and tie them closely with a bladder. Or they may be kept for several months packed in layers of dry bran and made air-tight. GRAVEL, Remedy for.—Acetate of potash, two drams; honey, half an ounce ; spirits of turpentine, half a dram ; carbonate of soda, half a dram ; mint tea, eight ounces. Mix. Dose: Two tablespoonfuls three times a day. Raw onions should be freely eaten. GRAPES.—See Vines, The Treatment of. GRASS, To Dye.—See Moss, To Dye. GRAVEL WALKS, To Destroy Weeds, &c., on.—Moss or weeds of any description may be totally eradicated from gravel walks by sprinkling them with salt during moist or dewy weather ; but it should, of course, not be done during a period of rain, as this would destroy the action of the salt.