77 and apply leaf gold in the ordinary way ; sweep off the superfluous portions of the leaf, and when quite cold proceed to burnish, interposing a piece of India paper between the gold and the burnisher. See also Gold Paint for Glass-work. GLASS (GROUND), To Imitate.—A very effective and durable composition for deadening windows may be made by mixing mastic varnish with a little white-lead. Apply to the inside of the panes with an old paint brush, using only a small quantity of the varnish at the time. Or, dissolve Epsom salts in beer, and apply with a brush. As it dries it crystallizes and produces a fine imitation of ground glass. Another method of giving to glass the appearance of being ground is to work together until quite soft equal parts of white-lead and common putty, shape it into a ball, and roll it over the surface of the glass. GLASS, Invisible Writing on.—Lay the glass upon a perfectly flat surface, breathe upon it, and while the breath remains upon the glass, write or draw the desired characters with French chalk, pressing rather heavily with the hand. Should the breath evaporate before the design is finished breathe on it again, and so on till the work is finished ; then wipe the glass with a damp cloth, dry it, and the writing will disappear. Breathe on it, and it will return. GLASS (SOLUBLE).—Melt together fifteen parts of powdered quartz, or broken glass, ten of potash, and one of charcoal; work it in cold water, then boil with five parts water till entirely dissolved. Apply to the work and let it cool. It will dry into a transparent colourless glass on any surface to which it is applied, and will render wood nearly incombus- tible. I GLASS STOPPERS, To Loosen.—Hold the neck of the bottle fin hot water for a few moments, which will cause the glass to expand, when 'the stopper may easily be removed. A little oil dropped around the mouth of the bottle close to the stopper, and the bottle stood in a warm place, will often prove effectual. GLASS, To Cut to any Shape, or to Drill.—File a notch on the edge of the glass, then make a thin rod of iron red hot, apply it to the notch and draw it slowly along the surface of the glass in the direction desired ; a crack will follow, and the division can easily be effected with the thumb and finger. Another method of cutting or drilling glass with ease is to keep the edge of the tool constantly wet with spirits of turpentine. GLASS, To Toughen.—Tumblers, wine, and other glasses may be rendered so tough as to be practicably unbreakable by placing them in a vessel of cold water and gradually bringing it to a hard boiling point, care being taxen to place a cloth between them so that they are not injured during ebullition. Or they may be placed in a very hot oven and allowed gradually to grow cold. GLASS, To Unite Neatly.—Put a little isinglass in spirits of wine, and when dissolved add a small quantity of water ; melt the mixture over a slow fire, and apply to the broken pieces. The join will be almost imper- ceptible. v See also Cement for Glass. GLAZING FOR HAMS AND TONGUES, Ac.—Boil a shin of beef for twelve hours in two gallons of water. In like manner draw the gravy from a knuckle of veal, adding salt, pepper, and a few cloves. Pour the whole with the shin of beef, and boil it down to one quart. When wanted, warm a portion and spread it with a feather over the ham. Will keep good for a year.