201 powdered indigo. When all are well incorporated, stir in a quarter of a pint of oil of turpentine. Apply the polish thinly, and keep it well corked. WATERPROOF CARDBOARD, To Manufacture.—Dissolve half a pound of alum and a quarter of a pound of white Castile soap in two quarts of water ; next dissolve separately a quarter of a pound of glue and two ounces of gum-arabic in two quarts of water ; then mix the solu- tions, and add, slightly warm, to the cardboard pulp. WATERPROOF CLOAKS, &c.—Tweeds may be rendered waterproof by the following simple process :—Dissolve half a pound of alum in two quarts of boiling water, then add two gallons of cold water. Soak the articles in the liquor for twenty-four hours. Now in another tub dissolve a quarter of a pound of sugar of lead in two quarts of boiling water, and add two gallons of cold water. Remove the articles from the first tub and allow them to drain ; then immerse them for six hours in the solution of lead. Wring them gently, and dry in the shade. WATERPROOFING FOR BOOTS AND SHOES.—Mix together in a saucepan over the fire two parts of tallow and one part of rosin ; warm the boots and apply the hot mixture with a painter’s brush till they will not absorb any more. If well polished before applying the waterproofing they will take the polish afterwards. WATERPROOFING FOR CLOTH (Chinese Method).— Dissolve an ounce of white wax in a quart of spirits of turpentine, immerse the cloth in the solution, and then suspend it in the air till perfectly dry. The following method will render cloth almost impervious to water, and at the same time allow the air to pass through it:—Imbue the cloth on the wrong side with a solution of isinglass, alum, and soap, by means ot a brush. When dry, brush on the wrong side against the grain, and then go over with a brush dipped in water. WATERPROOFING FOR LEATHER.—Boiled oil, half a pint ; mutton suet, half a pound ; beeswax, six ounces; rosin, quarter of a pound. Melt the whole together and apply while hot. Gutta percha and indiarubber dissolved in wood naphtha answers the same purpose. See also Waterproofing for Boots and Shoes. WATERPROOF PACKING PAPER, To Prepare.—Dissolve one ounce of gum-nitric and six ounces of glue in a quart of water. In a second quart of water dissolve one pound of white soap. Mix the two solutions, and after heating them soak the paper in the liquid. Hang each sheet separately on a line, and when dry smooth in a press. WATERPROOF POLISH FOR LEATHER.— Dissolve two pounds of shellac in one gallon of methylated alcohol; add six ounces of camphor, and shake it well occasionally for a week ; then stir into it a quarter of a pound of lampblack and two ounces of finely- powdered Prussian blue. Shake it up, strain through a piece of muslin, and put it into a bottle, making it air-tight. WATER, To Detect Impurities in.—The presence of animal or vegetable impurities in water may readily be detected by adding to a cup- ful of the liquid a few drops of sulphuric acid, when, if the water is con- taminated, it becomes black. If the presence of lead be suspected, add one drop of sulphide of ammonia to a wineglassful of the water and stir it with a goose-quill or glass rod ; if the water is impure it will become discoloured. WATER, To Purify.—An ounce of powdered alum added to a hogshead of putrid water will purify it in the course of a few hours, and render it fit for use. £7