44 COLTSFOOT SYRUP FOR COUGHS.—Into half a gallon of water put a quarter of a pound of coltsfoot, one ounce of hyssop, one ounce of balm, one ounce of rue, and half an ounce of horehound. Boil down to half the quantity ; strain, add one pound of white sugar ; pour it back into the saucepan, and boil to the consistence of honey. A tea- spoonful to be taken when the cough is troublesome. COLUMBINE.—This old-established plant well deserves the favour it has received for so many years past, from the peculiarity of its flower, which can be divided into portions, each of which resembles a “ columba," or dove. It will grow in any ordinary garden soil if protected with a little litter in winter. As it is likely to degenerate when raised from seed it is far better to propagate it by root-division. COMPLEXION, To Improve the.—Dissolve fullers’ earth in water, stir well, then let it settle, and use once or twice a day. See also Skin (White), To Procure a. CONCRETE WALKS FOR GARDENS.—Mix together six parts of coarse gravel and one part of lime, lay it down to a depth of six inches, and while wet cover it with an inch of fine sand and roll it well in. CONFECTIONERY, Green Colouring for.—Steep half an ounce of saffron in distilled water for twenty-four hours, and in another vessel infuse a quarter of an ounce of carmine indigo for the same period, then mix. This colouring matter is quite harmless, and may be preserved a considerable time by making it into a syrup. CONSTIPATION, To Remove.—Take as much open-air exercise as possible each day, and drink at least half a pint of water before retiring to rest, and the same quantity the first thing in the morning. Attention to these simple rules will cure the most obstinate cases of costiveness. CONSUMPTION, To Cure.—Consumption of the lungs has frequently been cured by simply cutting out a clod of earth every morning and breathing into the hole for about a quarter of an hour. The patient should eat as many apples as possible, and drink freely of milk, alternated with apple water or cider-whey. CONVULSIONS IN CHILDREN.—Set the child, during the fit, up to the neck in warm water; let it remain thus for a quarter of an hour, and apply every two or three minutes a wet cloth to the head and temples. After removing the child from the bath and wiping it dry, wrap it in flannel, give it a teaspoonful of castor oil in a little warm milk, and put it to bed. COOLING DRINKS.—To two ounces of Epsom salts add a large lemon cut into slices, two ounces of cream of tartar, a spoonful of sugar, and a quart of boiling water. Stir well, and allow it to cool. This forms a very pleasant drink and a gentle aperient. Or, dissolve two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in a quart of boiling water ; add lemon and sugar to taste. Let stand for two hours, then strain it for drinking. Another refreshing drink for use in the summer is made as follows:—Boil two pounds of loaf sugar in a quart of water for a quarter of an hour, and let it stand in a basin till cold. Meantime, beat one ounce of citric acid to a powder, and with it mix half a dram of essence of lemon. Add this to the syrup, mix well and bottle for use. Two tablespoonfuls in a tumbler of cold water. COPPER IN LIQUIDS, To Detect.—Put a small quantity of the liquid in a wineglass and add a few drops of spirits of hartshorn ; if cooper be present the liquid will turn blue. COPPER IN PICKLES, &c., To detect the presence of.—Put a small quantity of the pickles into a glass, and add a little liquid ammonia