127 MENSES, For Obstruction of the.—Steel filings, two ounces ; powdered sugar, two ounces ; ginger, two drams. Pound together. One teaspoonful to be taken twice a day in orange wine. MENSTRUATION (EXCESSIVE).—Rest as much as pos- sible in a recumbent position during the attack, taking every four hours a powder consisting of five grains of ergot of rye. In the interval a table- spoonful three times a day of Griffiths’ mixture will be beneficial. MENSTRUATION (PAINFUL).—During the period of attack avoid mental excitement and cold, and each alternate day take every four hours a pill composed of two grains of camphor and half a grain of pow- dered opium. MENSTRUATION (SCANTY).—Take plenty of exercise in the open air; avoid hot rooms and too much sleep, and before the ex- pected period put the feet in warm water and take a couple of cochiae pills. METALS, Amalgamation of.—For the combination of one metal with another, it is generally sufficient that one of them be in a state of fluidity. Mercury, being always fluid, is capable of amalgamation with other metals without heat; nevertheless heat considerably facilitates the operation. To amalgamate without heat requires nothing more than rub- bing the two metals together in a mortar ; but the metal to be united with the mercury should be previously divided into very thin plates or grains. When heat is used, which is absolutely necessary with some metals, the mercury should be heated till it begins to smoke, and the grains of metal made red-hot before they are thrown into it. If it be gold or silver, it is sufficient to stir the fluid with an iron rod for a little while, and throw it into a vessel filled with water. This amalgam is used for gilding or silvering of copper, which is afterwards exposed to a degree of heat sufficient to evaporate the mercury. Amalgamation with lead or tin is effected by pouring an equal weight of mercury into either of these metals in a state of fusion, and stirring all with an iron rod. Copper amalgamates with great difficulty, and iron not at all. METALS, To Silver.—Chloride of silver, one part; pearlash, three parts ; common salt, one and a half part; whiting, one part. Mix, and rub it on the surface of the metal with a soft leather, or a cork moistened with water and dipped into the powder. When properly silvered well wash the metal in hot water slightly alkalised, and wipe dry. One part of precipitate silver powder, mixed with two parts each of cream of tartar and common salt, may also be used in the same manner. MICE (WHITE).—These little animals, so dear to some boys, require to be kept extremely clean. They feed upon nuts of any kind, wheat, oats, beans, peas, &c., and bread soaked in milk. MILDEW FROM LINEN, To Remove.—Soap the spots andrub them well with powdered chalk; lay the linen in the open air where the sun shines directly on it; damp it once or twice as it dries, and, if neces- sary, give a second application of soap and chalk. MILDEW FROM PLANTS, To Remove.—Mix one ounce of nitre with one gallon of water, and syringe the plants therewith. Or make a strong decoction of green elder leaves, or a mixture of sulphur and soap- suds, and use in the same manner. MILK ABSCESS, To Relieve.—Apply warm vinegar to the part every two or three hours. MILK PUNCH.—Boil slowly for ten minutes a pint of water, a pint and a half of milk, and six ounces of sugar. Pour it into a pan and stir in two eggs, well beaten and mixed with a pint of cold milk ; add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and a pint of brandy. Strain through a flannel bag, beat it to a froth, and serve in glasses.