69 difficulty in obtaining the muriate of ammonia from the chemist’s, it may generally be procured from artificial manure merchants. FRENCH POLISH, A Foundation for.—Common work is simply sized before the polish is applied ; but for best work proceed in this way First give it a coating of plaster of Paris and whiting, mixed, so as to fill the pores of the wood, and then one of tallow mixed with dragon's-blood, or other pigment, according to the colour desired. Or the whiting, tallow, and colours may be mixed together and well rubbed into the work. When dry give a coating of polish, allow it to dry, and clean it down with No. o glass-paper. You will then have a good foundation upon which to put the last coats of polish. FRENCH POLISH, To Make Superior.—Add an ounce of gum- shellac and half an ounce of gum-sandarach to a pint of spirits of wine. Place the mixture in a stone bottle near the fire, shaking it frequently. As soon as the gums are dissolved it is fit for use. Or, dissolve five ounces and a half of pale shellac in a pint of naphtha. The above may be coloured in order to modify the character of the wood. ^ A red tinge is given by the use of dragon’s-blood, alkanet root, or red sanders wood ; a yellow tinge by turmeric root, or gum-gamboge. When it is simply desired to darken the wood, brown shellac is employed to make the polish. FRENCH ROLLS.—Heat a pint of milk almost to boiling point; stir in a cupful of yeast and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and with the flour make a light sponge. Cover it over, and stand in a warm room for two hours; then knead into it two ounces of butter; let it rise again as high as it will, add a quarter of a pint of warm water and a little salt ; mix the whole well together, cut it into strips or round cakes, butter half the top and fold it over. If made the night before, they should be kneaded in the morning, and set to rise again an hour before required. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a sharp oven. FRIARS’ BALSAM.—To a quarter of a pound of gum-benzoin, add three ounces of strained storax, an ounce and a half of balsam of tolu, three- quarters of an ounce of aloes, and a quart of rectified spirit. Let it stand for a fortnight, and shake well before using. Dose, half a teaspoonful on loaf sugar. It is used for colds, asthma, and consumption. It is also a good remedy, when applied externally, for cuts and wounds. FRICASSEE OF FOWL.—Cut off the wings and legs of a fowl and divide the back and breast into two pieces each, wash well, put them into a stew-pan, cover with water, add a bunch of parsley, three or four cloves, a blade of mace, a little pepper, and a teaspoonful of salt ; boil for twenty minutes, pass the stock through a sieve into a basin, remove the flesh and trim it ; then put into the stew-pan two ounces of butter, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with the stock, put back the pieces of fowl, let the contents of the pot come to a boil, removing the scum occasionally ; add two dozen button onions, and simmer until they are tender, then add half a pint of milk, with which has been mixed the yolks of two eggs, stir it quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil ; place'the fowl upon&a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. FRITTERS.—Make a good batter of eggs, milk, and flour, the same as is done for pancakes, and drop a little into a frying-pan ; have ready some apples, pared, cored, and sliced, or some sliced lemon, lay them in the batter and fry them a nice light brown ; glaze them with a hot shovel or salamander, and send to table on a folded napkin in a dish. Fritters may also be made with currants or any sweetmeat or rine fruit FROST-BITES, To Cure.—Immerse the part in snow or cold water, then apply brisk friction and a little camphorated spirits. To ease