187 SWEETBREADS.—Put them into boiling water for eight or ten minutes, then throw them into cold water to blanch. They may be cut in slices or dice and put into fricassees or ragouts ; or they may be smeared with the yolk of egg, covered with bread crumbs and hung before the fire to roast. In the latter case, serve with fried bread crumbs and melted butter, with a spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a little lemon juice. SWEETBREADS (PLAIN).—Parboil them for about five minutes, dry in a cloth, cut into slices, sprinkle with flour, and fry to a light brown ; drain off the fat, garnish with sliced lemon and curled parsley, and serve with forcemeat balls and egg sauce. SWEET WILLIAMS, To Propagate.—Sow the seed in spring in a well-manured bed, and in October prick the plants out where they are to bloom, allowing a distance of six inches in every direction. They do best on a well-drained, light, rich loam. SWELLINGS AND INFLAMMATION, To Reduce.—To a dram and a half of extract of lead add two ounces of rectified spirits of wine, twelve ounces of distilled water, and sufficient bread crumbs to form a moderately thick poultice. This will not only lessen the inflammation and reduce the swelling, but will allay the irritation. SWELLINGS, Lotion for.—Put into a bottle five drams of camphor and half a pint of spirits of wine, cork closely, and when quite dissolved, add half a pint of ox-gall and sixty drops of laudanum. Shake well, and bottle ready for use. This lotion will also allay inflammation and cure bruises and cuts. SWISS ROLL.—Beat to a cream six ounces of butter ; next beat together three eggs and six ounces of crushed white sugar ; incorporate the butter and eggs, then add very lightly indeed their weight in flour, and at the last minute stir in half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Have ready a shallow baking tin lined with paper which has been greased on both sides ; spread the mixture thinly but evenly over it and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Turn it out on to a sheet of paper with sugar dredged over it, spread with jam, roll it up and lay it on a sieve to cool. SYRUP FOR PRESERVES.—Dissolve two pounds of sugar in half a pint of hot water, add the white of an egg well beaten ; put it into a saucepan and boil quickly for a few moments, skimming it till quite clear. SYRUP PUDDING.—Mix with the flour half a saltspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and a quarter of a pound of suet or dripping ; add two tablespoonfuls of syrup dissolved in half a pint of milk. Butter a basin, and put it about three parts full, flour the top, tie it down with a cloth, and steam it from two to three hours. Serve with sweet sauce. SYRUP, To Clarify.—Beat to a froth the white of an egg with half a cup of water, mix it with the syrup, and boil together for a few seconds ; then remove the scum, either by filtration or otherwise. TABLE ORNAMENT, A Cheap and Pretty.—Take a goblet with the stem broken off, cover it with coarse flannel sewed together to prevent it slipping, stand it in a saucerful of water ; wet the flannel and sprinkle over as much flax seed as will adhere to it ; replenish the saucer from time to time as the water becomes absorbed by the flannel, and in two or three weeks the flannel will be concealed in a beautiful verdure, which will bear comparison with most table ornaments. TABLES &c., To Polish.—Loo, dining and other polished tables, may, on becoming dull, be made to resume their brightness by constantly rubbing them with a linen rag dipped in cold-drawn linseed oil.