37 HAIRWASH (ATHENIAN).—Boil in a glass vessel a quarter of a pound of sassafras wood in a gallon of rose-water ; let it stand till cold then add a pint of alcohol and an ounce of pearlash. This wash is highly recommended for cleansing and improving the hair in every respect. HAIRWASH (ROSEMARY). —Pour boiling water on to rose- mary leaves, and add a piece of ammonia the size of a pigeon's egg ; let it stand for a few hours, when it will be ready for use. This wash not only cleanses the hair, but acts as a stimulant to its growth. HALIBUT (FRIED).—Cut the fish into thin slices, rib it with a knife, and fry it in butter till it is beginning to brown ; then take it up, drain it, and put it into a clean frying-pan with a glass of port, sliced ginger, grated nutmeg, anchovy sauce, and saffron beaten ; fry again ; add butter, and a minced lemon ; shake well, and serve. HAM AND CHICKEN PATTIES.—Take equal quantities of finely-minced ham and chicken, add some good gravy, with a little cayenne and white pepper, grated lemon peel, and some of the juice of the lemon ; stir over the fire till hot. Line the moulds with paste, put in the meat, cover with a crust, and bake. HAM AND VEAL PATTIES.—These are made in the same way as ham and chicken patties, with the exception that a little cream is put into them. HAM (POTTED).—Chop, and pound very fine, four pounds of lean ham and two pounds of roast veal, add a pound and a half of butter, a little cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and ground mace. Pot, and cover with hot butter. HAMS, To Carve.—Hams should be cut in very thin slices. The most prevalent way is to begin at a little distance from the knuckle, and to proceed towards the thick end, or blade. A baked ham may be cut much thinner than a boiled one. HAMS, To Cook.—Scrape the ham clean, put it into a saucepan of warm water, and let it simmer for about six hours ; take it out, remove the rind, and rub into the flesh as much granulated sugar as it will receive ; place it in a baking-dish, pour upon it a bottle of cider, and bake an hour in a gentle oven, basting it occasionally with the cider. HAMS, To Choose.—Thrust a knife into the flesh under the bone ; if it has a pleasant smell when withdrawn, the ham is good, but if not it should be rejected. The recently cut fat should be hard and white, and the lean fine grained and of a lively red. Short hocked hams are the best. HAMS, To Cure.—If the weather will permit, let it hang for a couple of days ; then beat it with a rolling-pin. Mix together one pound of bay salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, a handful of common salt, and half a pound of coarse sugar ; warm the mixture and rub it well into the ham ; lay it, rind downwards, in the pickle, and cover the fleshy part with the same ; turn and baste it every day for a month, then drain, wash off the salt with cold water, dry it with a cloth, pepper the inside and the knuckle, hang it in a warm room, and when dry, suspend it in a cotton bag in a cool, well-ventilated room. HANDS (MOIST), To Treat.—Bathe them occasionally in either salt water or vinegar. Or rub them with a mixture of equal parts of alum and tannic acid. A little of this powder may also be put into the glove. HANDS, To Check Excessive Perspiration of the.—A simple remedy for this uncomfortable affliction may be found in washing in warm water with club-moss, which may be obtained of any chemist. HANDS, To Cool and Improve the.—To two-thirds of glycerine add one-third of rose-water, and rub it on the hands after each ablution