102 PRAWNS, To Boil.—These require to be done in a good quantity of water. To each three quarts of water used, add a quarter of a pound of salt. Let the water boil very fast, remove the scum, throw in the prawns and boil them for seven or eight minutes ; drain, and keep them in the cooL Send to table on a napkin with toast and fresh butter. PRESERVED FRUIT, To Bottle.—Take a few wide-mouthed bottles, and after burning a match in each to exhaust the air, place at the bottom a layer of sound dry fruit, and upon this a layer of sugar, and so on alternately until the bottles are full, then insert the corks, and tie a bladder over the top. Stand them in a stew-pan of cold water neck downwards, placing some straw between the bottles to prevent them breaking during ebullition. Directly the skin begins to crack remove them from the water ; place a piece of white paper dipped in sweet oil over the top of the fruit, then immerse another piece of paper in gum-water and press over and around the top of the bottles ; this will become hard and tight as it gets dry. PRESERVES, Covering for.—Cut some white paper the exact size of the inside of the jars intended for use, and when the preserve is thoroughly cold dip the paper in brandy and place it on the fruit. Or the papers, instead of being dipped in brandy, may be glazed with the whites of eggs. The jars should then be tied down with a double paper of the same description over the top. PRESERVES, To Make a Syrup for.—Dissolve two pounds of sugar in half a pint of water, boil for a few minutes, skimming it till quite clear. Add the white of one large egg, well beaten; boil very quickly, removing the scum as it forms. PRINTS, To Obtain Impressions of.—Soak the print first in a solution of potash and afterwards in a solution of tartaric acid. Diffused crystals of bi-tartrate of potash are thus produced through the texture of the printed part of the paper, a salt which repels oil. The ink-roller may then be passed over the print without affecting any portion of the surface, except the parts to which ink was originally applied. Next lay a sheet of paper over the print and cover this with a piece of felt or thick fine flannel, and very carefully lay a heavy flat weight upon it, or put it into a letter- press for a moment, when a reversed copy of the picture will be obtained. Should it be desired to make a perfect reproduction of the original, the copy must be treated in precisely the same manner as that from which it was tnken PRUNING TREES, Method of.—The operation of pruning trees is chiefly performed during February and March, or as soon as the frost breaks up. The amputation is made as near as possible to a bud, but without touching it. The cut should begin on the opposite side to, and on a level with, the lower part of the bud, and terminate just above it. In sawing away a branch, let the cut be smooth and bevelled, and leave a small portion on the stem. In all cases let the wounded surface be as small as possible. Smooth it with a knife or chisel, and cover with grafting paste. PRUSSIAN BLUE, To Manufacture.—Calcine a quantity of vegetable alkali with twice its weight of dried bullock’s blood until the blood is reduced to a perfect coal. Boil this coal in water, decant the lixivium, and pour it into a solution of one part of green sulphate of iron (copperas) to six parts of alum, the lixivium and the solution both being hot. The mixture will then acquire a very pale blue colour and deposit a pale precipitate. By adding more and more of a fresh solution of copperas the colour will become deeper. It must then be filtered, and the precipitate washed the next day till the water which comes from it is insipid ; the colour is then finally gently dried.