76 lemon. Let it stand for four days, then bottle. The honey gives to the beer a peculiar softness, and as it is not fermented with yeast it is less violent in its action when opened. It will keep good for many months. GINGER BEER, To Prepare Ordinary.—Put two gallons of cold water into a saucepan, add to it two ounces of bruised ginger and two pounds of sugar ; boil the whole for an hour, then skim the liquor and pour it into a jar along with a sliced lemon and half an ounce of cream of tartar. When nearly cold add a teacupful of yeast and let it work for two days ; strain, bottle for use, and tie the corks down firmly. It will be ready for use in a few days. GINGERBREAD, To Make.—Put five pounds of flourinto a pan, make a pit in the centre and pour in a pound and a half of treacle, an ounce and a half of ground ginger, half an ounce of carraway seeds, a quarter of a pound of orange peel, an ounce and a half of carbonate of soda, two ounces of allspice, six ounces of blanched almonds, one pound of honey, and half a pound of butter worked to a cream. Mix the whole into a dough, stirring it thoroughly, and adding three-quarters of an ounce of tartaric acid. Let it stand an hour, then put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a cool oven for two hours, or till a fork dipped into the cake comes out without the dough adhering to it. GINGER (PRESERVED).—Scald the young roots, and when tender peel them and throw them into cold water, changing the water fre- quently. Afterwards immerse them in a thin syrup for a few days, then put them into jars and pour over them a rich syrup. GINGER, Tincture of.—Digest for a week in a gentle heat one ounce of ginger and a pint of proof spirits, then strain. Dose : From ten minims to one dram. Used to expel wind and to prevent the griping of medicines. GLADIOLUS, General Treatment of.—The whole species of gladioli are more or less tender and are safest under pot culture. If planted in the open ground they must occupy a well drained position, be well protected from cold, and, during the winter, covered with six inches of dry leaves or sawdust. Propagate by division of the cones every four years. GLANDS, For Displaced.—Mix with one ounce of spirits of harts- horn, two ounces of olive oil. Pour a little of the mixture into the palm of the hand and rub the throat gently upwards towards the ear. A piece of flannel may also be saturated with the liniment and tied round the neck GLANDULAR ENLARGEMENTS, To Lessen.—Dissolve by a gentle heat two drams of scraped white soap and half a dram of extract of henbane in six ounces of olive oil. Rub the part well twice a day with about half an ounce of the mixture. GLASS, Etching on.—Draw the required figures or designs with varnish upon the glass, and apply thereto a coating of aquafortis. The glass will become corroded and softened wherever the fluid touches it and may readily be cut away around the drawing. Remove the varnish and the figures will appear raised upon a dark ground. Or, lay on the glass a ground of beeswax, draw thereon the design with a needle, as in etching upon metals, then pour on a little sulphuric acid and sprinkle it with fluor-spar ; after four or five hours, take it off and clean the work with oil of turpentine. GLASS, Gilding on.—Dissolve in boiled linseed oil an equal weight of either amber or copal, then add as much oil of turpentine as will form a very thin size ; apply to the parts of the glass intended to be gilt. Make the glass hot in an oven, so that it will almost burn the hand when touched,