9° water, and let them keep boiling for twenty minutes. Serve with sugar and butter. HATFIELD (ICED).—Put four slices of lemon into a large jug, adding a quartern of the best gin, and one teaspoonful of Noyeau, with a moderate proportion of clear ice ; then add a bottle of ginger beer, a bottle of soda water, and a bottle of lemonade ; mix well together and drink quickly. This is a very cooling and refreshing drink, and being pleasant to the palate, is much drunk on the cricket field. HATS (SILK), Wet.—A silk hat should be handled very lightly when it is wet. Wipe it as dry as possible with a silk handkerchief, then apply a soft brush. Should any portion of the nap be found to stick to- gether, damp it slightly with a sponge moistened with beer or vinegar, and brush it before a fire until quite dry. HATS, Stiffening for.—Dissolve three ounces of borax in half a gallon of warm water, pour the liquid into a copper pan, and add three pounds and a half of shellac, half a pound of amber rosin, two ounces of gum-thus (or resin from the spruce tree), and two ounces of gum-mastic. Boil the whole together until the rosins are melted, adding more water if necessary ; then add a gill of wood naphtha, and a quarter of a pound of copal varnish. Stir all together, and while hot strain through a sieve. Use while hot, previously washing the hats with hot potash-water and thoroughly drying them. When the stiffening is dry, steep the hats for twelve hours in a weak solution of sulphuric acid, and dry them on blocks. HAWTHORN FLAVOURING.—To one pint of grain spirit (over proof) add half a pound of hawthorn buds. Cork up, and leave it to infuse for eight days; filter through blotting paper. A weak solution for immediate use can be made by pouring boiling water upon the flowers and letting them steep till cold. HAY FEVER, To Cure.—This unpleasant complaint may be cured by aconite and white wine whey taken at bed-time. Boil half a pint of milk, add a little aconite and a glass of sherry, strain through muslin, and sweeten the whey with white sugar. To twelve parts of absolute phenol, eight parts of carbonate of ammonia, twenty-two parts of strong solution of ammonia, half a part of oil of lavender, and one and a half parts of camphor, add a little sifted pine sawdust. Inhale five or six times a day, or when the sneezing comes on. Relief has often been found by wearing tinted side spectacles to soften the light and lessen the glare of the sun. HAY, To Ascertain the Weight of.—Measure the length and breadth of the stack, then its height to the eaves ; add to this last one-third or one- half (according to the pitch) the height from the eaves to the ridge at top. Multiply the length by the breadth, and the product by the height, ex- pressed in feet ; divide the amount by 27 in order to find "the cubic yards: multiply these by the number of stones of 22lb. New hay will average six stones, old hay from eight to nine stones. Thus in a stack of new hay 60 feet long, 40 in breadth, 12 in height to the eaves, and 9 (the half of tvhich is 4.^) from the eaves to the top, there will be 60 multiplied by 40, laultiplied by i6|, making 39,600 cubic feet ; these divided by 27 give 1,466 cubic yards each of six stones of 22lb., or nearly 8,797 stones. HEADACHE (SICK).—Sick headache caused by indigestion may be relieved by a little soda water. HEADACHE, To Obtain Relief from.—Moisten a rag with either sulphuric ether or sweet spirit of nitre, and lay it across the forehead, vovering it with a piece of oiled silk, to prevent evaporation. It will be necessary to wet the rag with the ether frequently,as its effects soon pass off.