72 follows :—Mix together four ounces of shellac varnish, one ounce of alkanet root, two ounces of spirits of turpentine, two ounces of beeswax, and a pint of linseed oil. Allow the mixture to stand for a week, then apply it to the furniture with a piece of flannel, and polish briskly with a soft cloth. If the stains are not removed by the first application, the process should be repeated until the desired effect is obtained. FURNITURE PASTE FOR LIGHT WOOD.—Scrape half a pound of beeswax into a pint of turpentine ; let it stand till dissolved, when it will be ready for use. Or, dissolve six ounces of pearl-ash in a quart of boiling water, add a quarter of a pound of white wax, and simmer for half an hour. Let it cool; remove the wax from the surface, work it into a soft paste in a mortar with a little hot water, and apply to the furniture. FURNITURE PASTE FOR MAHOGANY.—Scrape two ounces of beeswax into a basin, add as much spirits of turpentine as will moisten it, together with the eighth part of an ounce of rosin ; dissolve it to the consistence of paste, then pour in as much Indian red as will bring it to a deep mahogany colour ; stir it up, and it will be fit for use. FURNITURE POLISH. — Shave very fine three ounces of white wax and add to it a gill of turpentine ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, then cut into shavings half an ounce of hard soap and boil it in a gill of water, and add thereto the wax and turpentine. If the furniture is very dirty let it be cleaned with a little paraffin before applying the polish, as this will materially lighten the labour. Or, take of linseed oil, one gill and a half; turpentine, one gill ; ground loaf sugar, one teaspoonful. Shake well together, rub it on the furniture with a piece of flannel, and polish with a soft cloth. FURNITURE, To Remove White Spots from.—White spots may readily be removed from varnished furniture by holding a hot iron or shovel over the blemish. FURRED IRON KETTLE, To Cleanse a.—Fill the kettle with water, add a large spoonful of sal ammoniac, and let it boil for a few moments ; then empty it, and stand it over the fire to get red hot. The fur will then peel off. After this fill it with soda and water, and when it has boiled a short time rinse well with clear water. FURS, To Clean.—Sable, squirrel, chinchilla, fitch, See., may be cleaned in the following manner :—Warm some new bran in a pan, taking care that it does not burn, which can be prevented by active stirring. When rather hot, rub it thoroughly into the fur ; repeat this operation two or three times, then shake and brush it carefully. White furs, such as ermine, may be cleaned by laying them on a table and rubbing them well with bran moistened with warm water ; rub them dry, and afterwards with dry bran, and finally with magnesia. The wet bran should be applied with a flannel and the dry with book muslin. FURS, To Protect from Moth.—To one pint of warm water add ten grains of corrosive sublimate ; sponge it well into the furs, and when dry wrap them in blue paper. Or, take the furs out of the chests frequently, beat them well, expose them to the air, and scent the box where they are kept either with spirits of turpentine, camphor, cedar wood, or Russia leather. FURZE, The Cultivation of.—The double variety of this plant well merits admission on to a lawn, or in pots it forms a pleasing ornament to the hall or gravelled walks. It requires a well-drained, sandy soil, and flourishes best near the sea. Although hardy, it is advisable to give it protection during very severe weather. Small cuttings may be struck under bell-glasses, but their growth is slow.