29 A piece of sugar may be placed between the bars of the cage for the bird to clean its beak on. The perches must be kept particularly clean, other- wise their feet will become diseased. CANARIES, Treatment of Young.—Boil some rape seed, wash it in fresh water, press it to a pulp, and place it in the feeding trough. Next take both the yolk and the white of an egg, boiled hard, mix it with sopped bread, beat the whole together and put it into a separate vessel in the cage. Fresh food must be made each day. When the birds attain the age of one month they should be put into separate cages. CANDIED PEEL (CITRON).—Remove the bitterness of the peel by soaking it in several waters, the final one to be warm ; drain, and cover with a syrup made of loaf sugar and water ; when transparent, drain dry. CANDIED PEEL (LEMON AND ORANGE).—Immerse the peel in a bath of salt and water for four or five days, then take it out, wash it in clear water, and boil till tender. Next make a syrup by boiling loaf sugar in water—three pounds of sugar to a pint of water—add the peel and boil till candied, then remove it from the syrup and dust with caster sugar. The flavour may be regulated by adding cinnamon, mace, or cloves to the syrup. CANE-BOTTOMED CHAIRS, To Clean.—Put a handful of salt into some hot soap-suds, and well wash the cane-work with a sponge. Dry in the open air ; when the cane will become as tight and firm as new. CANTHARIDES, Tincture of.—To each dram of powdered cantharides add one ounce of proof spirit, and let them stand for one week. CAPERS, To Preserve.—Half fill a bottle with capers. Scald some vinegar, and, when cold, pour it upon the capers ; use sound corks, and cover them with bottle-wax to keep out the air. CAPSICUM, To Cultivate.—All the different kinds of capsicums are tender annuals. Sow the seed in a hot-bed in March or April, and plant out in May or early in June at a distance of twelve inches. They will produce an abundance of pods for use in July, August, and September, being first green and ripening to a bright red. CARAMEL, for Colouring Meat or Sauce.—Take a piece of sugar the size of a walnut, place it in a saucepan to brown over the fire, and add gradually a cupful of stock. Apply it to the meat with a feather. A few drops are sufficient to colour sauce. CARDBOARD (WATERPROOF).—See Waterproof Card- board. CARNATIONS, PINKS, AND PICOTEES.—These effective flowers may be raised from seed sown during May in pots of very light, rich soil, keeping the seedlings well sheltered, but admitting plenty of air. When the plants have put forth five or six leaves plant them out in the open, about ten inches apart, in a compost of calcareous loam, silver sand, leaf mould, and rotted cow dung, protecting them from the frost as winter approaches. They will bloom the following summer. 1'he best way of propagating carnations, however, is by layers. Select a shoot, trim off all the leaves with the exception of five or six, make an incision half-way through the shoot, from a joint upwards, and peg it securely into the soil, placing beneath it a little gray sand and keeping the incision open with a piece of wood ; cover it with earth, let it rest for a couple of days, then give it a plentiful supply of water. Pinks are generally increased by piping, that is, the ends of shoots are broken off at a joint, and placed in ground containing a mixture of silver sand and leaf mould. They are then covered with a hand-glass and allowed to take root.