through a tammy, put into small cups, and place the cups in a stew-pan containing water enough to reach half way up the cups. Cover, and put a little fire on the lid of the pan, to prevent any steam dropping into the cream. The cream must not boil too long, nor fast, otherwise it will curdle. This cream is specially recommended for delicate young ladies, and those possessing weak stomachs. CREAM (GOOSEBERRY).—Put into a saucepan a quart of picked gooseberries with enough water to cover them. When warm stir in a small piece of butter, and let them boil quickly until soft. Pulp them through a sieve, add sugar to the pulp, and beat in the yolks of three eggs. Serve in a mould or in glasses. CREAM (ICE).—To a quart of boiling cream add eight eggs, well beaten; thicken over the fire, but mind it does not curdle. As soon as it is removed from the fire, mix it with a little melted isinglass, rub the whole through a sieve, and try a little in a small mould over ice. If the cream has not substance enough to allow of its being turned upside down, add a little more isinglass. Freeze over ice. CREAM (ITALIAN).—Boil a pint of cream with a pint of milk, throw in the grated peel of an orange and a lemon, a pinch of salt, and half a pound of sugar. When the peel has imparted a flavour to the cream, beat into it the yolks of eight eggs, thicken with a little flour; strain through a fine sieve into a mould, and place the mould in a hot bath on the hob till the cream is set. CREAM (LEMON).—Throw the peel of a lemon into equal quantities of boiling milk and cream, sweeten with sugar, and add a pinch of salt. When the peel is sufficiently infused, proceed as in making Vanilla Cream. If the cream is tc be white, use the whites of the eggs only ; if yellow, use the yolks. CREAM (LEMON-PEEL).—Boil a pint of cream, let it stand till half cold, then add the yolks of three or four eggs, and stir till quite cold ; afterwards put it on the fire with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar and a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel ; stir constantly till it is hot, and when cool pour into glasses. CREAM (MARBLED).—Make each cream separately, but be sure they are all of the same substance, for should one be thicker than the other they would separate in the dish. Rub the mould lightly over with oil, give it a sloping direction, and pour in, say, a little Vanilla cream ; let it freeze, then turn the mould and pour in a little chocolate cream ; let that freeze, and so on till the mould is full of light and dark creams, alternately put together. CREAM (ORANGE FLOWER).—This is made in the same manner as Cream au Th6, with the exception that instead of tea, a large pinch of orange flowers is infused in the cream until the flavour is obtained, when the eggs and isinglass are added. CREAM (PEACH). —Infuse the fruit in a small quantity of syrup till it is tender, drain, and pound the kernels very fine in a mortar : rub the fruit and kernels through a sieve, and mix with whipped cream. CREAM (PINE-APPLE).—Infuse the rind of a pine-apple in boiling cream, and proceed as is usual with other fruit creams. The rind only must be used, as the pulp of the pine-apple being acid, the cream would curdle. CREAM PUFFS.—Two eggs well beaten, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, two tablespoonfuls of baking powder, and a pound and a quarter of flour. Bake ; divide the cakes in halves while hot, and fill with cream made as followsTwo eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter or a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of flour. Cook till thick.