18 BIRDS, To Keep Insects from the Eyes of.—If a small bag of sulphur be suspended in the cage it will have the effect of keeping insects from the eyes of the birds, and will be generally beneficial to their health. BIRDS, To Keep them Fresh.—Pluck off the feathers, remove the crop, and draw the inside ; wash them well in a couple of waters and rub them all over with salt ; then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water and draw them up and down a few times by the legs. Let them remain in the pot for five minutes, and hang them in a cool place to drain ; when dry well salt and pepper the insides and hang them up till required. Wash them thoroughly in cold water before putting them to the fire to roast. BIRTHWORT, To Propagate.—This climber, which bears large heart-shaped leaves, is useful for covering trellis-work and walls. It is most readily propagated by layers, half-divided behind an eye. BISTRE, For Painting.—Bistre is made by putting soot of dry wood, as beech, into water, in the proportion of two pounds to a gallon, and boiling them half an hour. After the fluid has settled, pour off the clearer part while it remains hot. Evaporate the fluid to dryness, and what remains is good bistre. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL, for Diarrhoea.—Boil together four pounds of white sugar and one gallon of blackberry juice ; remove the scum, then add one ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, and four or five grated nutmegs. When boiled sufficiently, let it settle ; strain, and add one pint of brandy. Dose for a child, one tablespoonful; for an adult, one wineglassful. BLACKBIRDS.—Feed on apples, cherries, and other fruits, berries, worms, snails, insects, German paste, and finely cut meat and bread. The male bird has a deep black coat with a yellow bill; the female is dark brown. It is rather difficult to distinguish their sex when young, but the darkest are generally the males. BLACK DRAUGHT.—Epsom salts, one ounce; senna leaves, one dram ; grated ginger, one dram ; Spanish liquorice, half an ounce. Pour half a pint of boiling water on the above ; let it stand until it is cold ; then strain and add three drops of oil of cloves. BLACK EYE, Cure for a.—Bathe it with tepid water, and then apply a piece of lint saturated with the pure extract of lead. Keep the lint continually wet with the lotion for two or three hours. BLACKING (LIQUID). —Mix together one pound of ivory black, one pound of treacle, and a quarter of a pound of sweet oil; then dilute a quarter of a pound of oil of vitriol with three times its weight in water, add it to the other ingredients, and after it has stood for three or four hours add a quart of sour beer. BLACKING (LIQUID JAPAN).—Mix four ounces of ivory black with a tablespoonful of sweet oil, add two ounces of coarse sugar, a pint of vinegar, one ounce of muriatic acid, one ounce of sulphuric acid, and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Thoroughly incorporate the whole. BLACKING (PASTE).—To three ounces of ivory black, add three ounces of treacle, and a pint of vinegar. Mix separately six drams of sperm oil and six drams of strong oil of vitriol, then incorporate them thoroughly with the first mixture. BLACK PUDDING.—Procure the blood of a pig, and to each quart add a teaspoonful of salt and half a pound of partially boiled rice, and stir it until it is cold, then add a little more rice boiled in milk. Chop up a pound of fat pork and add it to the blood and rice with half a pound of melted lard, a quarter of a pint of bread crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped sage or a couple of shalots, a little parsley, cayenne and black pepper ; mix all together, press into the skins of the largest gut of