23 next morning work it up with a little milk added to sufficient water, and a little yeast. Set it before the fire to rise, then make into loaves, and bake. Time, from one to two hours, according to weight. BREAD, French Method of Making.—Beat up the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, and mix them with a quarter of a peck of flour, a little salt, a pint of yeast, and as much warm milk as will make it into a light dough. Stir it about with a wooden spoon ; place the dough in wooden dishes to rise, then turn the loaves into a quick oven. Rasp when done. BREAD PUDDING, A Superior.—Dry and roll fine a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs ; add a teacupful of sugar, a quart of milk, a teaspoonful of ginger, a little salt, three eggs (saving out the whites of two). When baked, spread fruit jelly over the top, then a frosting made of the whites of the eggs and a tablespoonful of sugar. Return to the oven until slightly browned. BREAD (SHORT), Scotch Method of Making.—Mix to a cream half a pound of butter and from four to six ounces of sugar ; add a pound of fine flour, knead, roll it into cakes half an inch thick, and bake in a slow oven. BREAD (SHORT), To Make.—Mix together one pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of finely sifted white sugar, and a large tea- spoonful of baking powder ; then rub in half a pound of shortening and mix the whole with three eggs, previously well beaten, and a little essence of lemon. Make into ounce cakes of an oval shape, ornament the edges, put a piece of candied peel on the top, and bake slowly. BREAD, To Detect Adulterations in.—Make the blade of a knife very hot and thrust it into a loaf one day old. If alum is present it will adhere to the knife in very small particles and will give off a peculiar smell. The presence of this salt may be suspected when the bread is ex- tremely white and when it becomes very brittle upon being toasted. The adulteration by the farina of peas and beans may be detected by pouring boiling water over a piece of the bread, when the odour of those grains will be manifest. Chalk, plaster of Paris, or mineral powder mixed with the flour may be discovered in the following manner :—Place a portion of the crumb of the loaf in an earthen jar with water, and let it simmer slowly for two or three hours. Remove with a spoon the whole of the pap and let the water stand till it is quite cold, then pour it off very gently. If the bread is adulterated with any of these articles a chalky sediment will be left behind in the jar. Or pour boiling water upon the bread, and add a little sulphuric acid ; if chalk be present an effervescence ensues. BREAD, To Make.—Put a quartern of flour and a dessert-spoonful of salt into a pan ; make a hole in the middle of the meal, but not quite to the bottom of the pan, and then mix two tablespoonfuls of yeast with half a pint of warm water, and pour it into the hole. Stir it until a thin batter is obtained. Sprinkle this over with flour, cover the pan with a cloth and let it stand in the warm for an hour or so, then add a pint of milk-warm water and knead the whole well together till the dough comes clean through the hand ; let it stand for another quarter of an hour, and then it will be ready for baking. BREAKFAST CAKES.—Take two pounds of flour, two break- fast-cupfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, one teaspoonful of tartaric acid, a teaspoonful and a half of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, and two eggs, the whites being beaten up first. Put the carbonate of soda in the milk and add the eggs. All the other ingredients are mixed in dry ; the liquid is then poured lightly into the centre, beaten up with a fork, and put, without moulding, quite moist in cakes on a tin to bake.