93 The following will likewise be found very useful:—Spermaceti powder, half an ounce ; gum-arabic powder, half an ounce ; elixir paregoric, three drams ; honey, one tablespoonful. Mix, and take a teaspoonful dissolved in the mouth. HOLLY HEDGES.—Holly forms a very effectual and durable hedge, and is, moreover, very pleasing to the eye. It is raised from the berries, which are laid in aheap and allowed to rot during the winter. The young plants are set out in October, and kept free from weeds until they have attained strength. They will grow in any soil, but do best in a light loam. HOLLYHOCK.—This flower flourishes best on a deep, moist, rich loam, but will grow in any good garden soil. It may be multiplied by seed sown in March and the plants set out in October where they are in- tended to bloom, choosing a dry day for this operation, and placing them in an airy situation, fully exposed to the sun. The flower-stems should in all cases be secured to stakes, so as to prevent injury from strong winds, and, if the season be dry, the plants watered with weak liquid manure. HONEY (ARTIFICIAL).—Good white sugar, five pounds; water, one quart ; bring them gradually to a boil, skim well, then add pulverised alum, a quarter of an ounce. When cool stir in cream of tartar, half an ounce, and extract of roses, one tablespoonful. HONEY BALSAM, for a Cough.—Add a teacupful of vinegar to a pound of honey ; boil, and skim ; when cold stir in an ounce of elixir of paregoric, put into a bottle, and keep well corked. Dose : One tablespoon- ful every four hours. HONEY OF ROSES, for Sore Mouths, Breasts, &c.—Steep a quarter of a pound of dried red rose buds in three pints of boiling water for six hours ; strain, add five pounds of clarified honey to the liquor, and boil to a syrup. HONEY, To obtain.—See Bf.es’ Hives. HONEYSUCKLE, The Cultivation of.—These sweetly-perfumed climbers are useful for covering walls, trellis-work, or arches, as, in addition to the beauty of their foliage they have the advantage of leafing early. They prefer a sound, deep, light loam, with a partly shaded situation. There are also shrubby varieties, which are mostly hardy, and may be readily increased from rooted suckers, layers, or cuttings, and also by seed from their berries. HONEY WATER COSMETIC.— Dissolve two ounces of powdered volatile salts in a pint of water ; add half a dram of oil of cloves, and the same quantity of oil of lavender and oil of bergamot. Rose and orange-flower water may likewise be added. HOOPING-COUGH, Liniment for.—Mix together eight ounces of olive oil, four ounces of oil of amber, and sufficient oil of cloves to impart a strong scent. Rub the mixture on the chest, but not during the first ten days of the complaint. This liniment may also be used for ordinary coughs. Good old rum, rubbed on the back and chest before going to bed, in- variably procures a night’s repose. HOOPING-COUGH, To Relieve.—Take of musk julep, six ounces ; paregoric elixir, half an ounce; volatile tincture of valerian, one dram. Mix. Dose : Two spoonfuls three or four times a day. HOP BITTERS.—Pour a quart of boiling water upon two ounces of hops, and infuse for twenty-four hours. Dose : One wineglasslul half an hour before meals. HOPS, Extract of.—Make a very strong infusion of hops, boil it to a thin syrup, and let it steam, closely covered, till thick. Make into pills of from five to ten grains. Useful in cases of nervous depression.