64 FERMENTATION, To Promote.—Heat a little of the wort, pour it upon yeast, and add it to the new beer. The whites of eggs beaten up with brandy, or a little powdered ginger will answer the same purpose. The wort should not be disturbed. FESTERS, Poultice for.—Boil some bread in stout, or the lees of strong beer if they are obtainable, and apply in the ordinary manner. FEVER PATIENTS, To Comfort.—Fever patients can be made cool and comfortable by frequent spongings off with soda-water. FEVERS, Cooling Drink for.—Pour a quart of boiling water upon a quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, a few pieces of lemon and orange, and half an ounce of sugar candy. Pour off the clear fluid when cold, and decant for a common drink. FIELD MICE, To Destroy.—Bore a number of holes all over the plantation, about twenty inches deep, and wider at the bottom than at the top. These, if baited and properly tended, will catch great numbers. FIG PUDDING.—Chop finely half a pound of figs and a quarter of a pound of beef suet, and put them into a basin with half a pound of bread crumbs, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, four ounces of flour, and four ounces of sugar. Mix together with a wooden spoon. Then beat up an egg with a gill of milk and pour it on to the other ingredients ; make into a rather moist paste, adding a little salt. Steep a pudding-cloth in boiling water, squeeze it out, sprinkle with flour, and tie it over the basin. Boil for two hours and a half. Serve with lemon or brandy sauce. FILTER, A Cheap.—A good water filter can be produced at little expense in the following manner:—Take a flower-pot, fill the hole with a piece of sponge and the rest of the pot with alternate layers of sand, char- coal, and small pebbles. The flower-pot thus fitted up may then be placed on a jar or other convenient vessel, into which the water as it filters can be received. FINGER NAILS (INGROWING), To Remedy.—Nails grown into the flesh may be rectified by the simple expedient of cutting a notch in the middle of the nail every time it is pared. The tendency of the nail to close the notch will draw it up from the sides. FINGER NAILS, To Prevent Children Biting their.—As soon as the child is perceived to have contracted this bad habit, rub a little bitter aloes upon the tips of its fingers, or, if this does not effect a cure, tie stalls upon them until the habit is forsaken, otherwise the appearance of the hand will be spoiled. FINGER NAILS, To Whiten.—To two drams of diluted sulphuric acid, add one dram of tincture of myrrh and four ounces of spring water. The tips of the fingers to be dipped in the mixture after washing. FIRE-EXTINGUISHING LIQUIDS.—To five or six ounces of ammonia add one gallon of water. This is said to be very effectual in subduing the flames. A strong solution of soda with salt added is a good and handy extinguisher of fire. FIRE IN A CHIMNEY, To Extinguish.—Keep the door and windows of the room closely shut, and, if possible, throw on the smouldering mass a few handfuls of salt. If the lighted soot is out of reach throw a handful of flower of sulphur on the fire in the grate and hold a wet blanket before the fire-place, so as to exclude the air and prevent the fumes of the brimstone entering the room. The vapour arising from the sulphur will effectually extinguish the fire. FIRE, To Render Clothing, &c., Proof against.—An ounce or so of alum added to the last water in which the articles are rinsed will render