135 MUTTON (HAUNCH OF), To Carve.—This joint, which con- sists of the leg and part of the loin of a sheep, should be placed on the dish in such a manner as to enable the carver to cut the slices towards himself. First make an incision across the knuckle end, down to the bone, to let the gravy flow ; then cut thin slices the whole length of the haunch, and serve them with slices of fat and some of the gravy. MUTTON (HAUNCH OF), To Roast.—Hang it as long as it will keep sweet, sponge it with vinegar and warm water, and afterwards wash it well. Make a paste with flour and water, spread it upon paper, and cover the fat with it. Set the joint at a distance from the fire, and baste with milk and water. When the fat begins to drip, change the dish, and baste with its own dripping. Half an hour before it is done, remove the paper, place the meat near to the fire, and baste well. Serve with currant jelly. MUTTON (LEG OF), Boiled.—Soak the joint for an hour and a half in weak salt and water, wipe it dry, put it in a floured cloth, and boil from two hours to two hours and a half, according to size. Serve with mashed turnips and caper sauce, or with greens and oyster sauce. MUTTON (LEG OF), Roast.—Put the leg into a saucepan, cover it with water, and simmer gently till it is half cooked ; then take it from the water and hang it instantly before the fire to finish. Time, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, according to weight. MUTTON (LEG OF), To Carve a Boiled.—Place the shank on the left, and begin by cutting right through the noix or kernel, called the pope’s eye, which is generally considered a delicacy. The fat will be found in the centre of the joint, lying in two directions, a portion of which should be served with each slice from the middle or thick of the thigh. This dish is sometimes sent to table with the thick portion uppermost, but generally this part is placed to face the carver. MUTTON (LEG OF), To Carve a Roast.—Turn the knuckle to the left, make an incision across the centre through the pope’s eye, and cut moderately thick slices from the right and left. The fat will be found on the thin side of the joint, nearest the dish. MUTTON (LOIN OF), Roast.—A loin roasted singly is best cooked in a Dutch oven. Sprinkle it with salt and flour, and baste well the whole time it is before the fire, as upon this depends much of its sweet flavour. It will require from an hour and a half to an hour and three- quarters. MUTTON (LOIN OF), To Carve.—The loin should be well jointed before it is sent to table. The carver has merely to cut down be- tween the bones, into chops, beginning at the narrow end, and serve them round. Some carvers prefer to cut it lengthways, after the manner of a saddle, contending that it cuts better that way. MUTTON (NECK OF).—This joint is mostly used for broth, but is very sweet when cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire. It should be boiled slowly till nearly done, then covered with the yolk of egg, sprinkled with bread crumbs and sweet herbs, and put before the fire to finish cooking. It needs to be previously well jointed, otherwise it is difficult to carve. Time, an hour and a half. MUTTON, Regarding the Cooking of.—Those parts which are in- tended to be roasted will eat shorter and more tender if they are allowed to hang some time before being cooked, especially the haunch or saddle ; but those parts which are boiled are best used fresh, otherwise the colour is apt to be injured. MUTTON RISSOLES.—Take some underdone mutton, chop it very fine, season with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg ; add a little beef