45 with the same amount of water. Stir the whole well together. If copper be present the liquid will become blue. COPPER, To Clean and Polish.—Add a little solution of bichro- mate of potash to diluted nitric acid ; apply with a flannel and polish with a leather. ... . „ , , , Oil and powdered brickdust, or oil and rotten-stone (sifted through muslin), mixed, and rubbed on with a leather, and after remaining on for a little while, rubbed off with a dry leather, will also prove valuable. When the copper is much tarnished a little oxalic acid soon brings brightness, but this must be used with great caution. COPPER, To Dissolve.—This mineral may be dissolved by im- mersing it in a bath of strong acetic acid. COPPER, To Whiten.—See Brass and Copper, To Whiten. CORN PLASTER.—Take two ounces of gum-ammoniac, two ounces of beeswax, and six drams of verdigris ; melt them together, and spread the composition on soft leather, such as an old kid glove. Cut away as much of the corn as possible, apply the plaster, and renew it every week or so until the corn disappears. CORNS, Simple remedy for. —Soak the feet for half an hour, two or three nights successively, in a strong solution of soda. This will dissolve the hard cuticle which forms the corn. The following is recommended by an American gentleman :—Take one- fourth cup of strong vinegar, crumb finely into it some bread. Let it stand half an hour, or until it softens into a good poultice. Apply on retiring at night. In the morning the soreness will be gone and the corn can be picked out. If the corn is a very obstinate one it may require two or more applications to effect a cure. CORN SOLVENT (DAVY’S).—Reduce to a very fine powder two parts potash and one part salt of sorrel. Lay a small quantity of the powder on the corn for four successive nights, binding it on with a linen rag. CORNS (SOFT).—Keep the feet scrupulously clean and dry, and protect the tender place from friction or pressure by means of a pad of wash-leather secured in position with strips of adhesive plaster. CORPULENCY, To Reduce.—Abstain from the use of fat meat, butter, sugar, milk, potatoes, port, champagne, and beer, but take plenty of out-door exercise every day. COSMETIC FOR THE HANDS.—Melt over a slow fire half a pound of soft soap with three ounces of sweet oil and a small teacupful of sea-sand. Stir well together, and run the mixture into moulds or press it into cakes. Sifted shelly sand is the best to use for this purpose. COSMETIC TO NULLIFY THE EFFECTS OF HARSH WINDS.—Take one ounce of spermaceti, half an ounce of white wax, one ounce of camphor, and two ounces of olive oil. Melt the whole together, stirring frequently. Pour into small pots for use. COUGH (CONSUMPTIVE), To Allay.—Mix two ounces of syrup of balsam of tolu, two grains of muriate of morphia, and twenty drops of muriatic acid. Take a teaspoonful twice a day. A small piece of resin, dipped in hot water, which is placed in a vessel on the stove, will add a peculiar property to the atmosphere of the room which will give great relief to the cough. COUGH MIXTURE.—Mix five ounces of honey, a quarter of a pound of treacle, and seven ounces of best vinegar. Simmer for fifteen minutes, and when milk-warm add two drams of ipecacuanha wine. One tablespoonful to be taken every four hours. This simple remedy will be found effectual in the most troublesome cases, and is well adapted lor children.