them with water, and boil gently for eight minutes. When done, strain the liquor, thicken it with white roux, pour the sauce over the fish, and garnish with lemon and horse-radish or sliced cucumber. SOLES (FRIED).—Skin and trim the fish, cut them open, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard to a light, but not pale brown. Send to table on a napkin with whole lemons. SOLES, To Carve.—When large, strike the fish-slice along the backbone, and serve square slices from the thick part, but the tail end should be served whole ; when small, cut the fish crosswise. SOLES, To Choose.—When fresh the flesh is firm, and the belly has a fine creamy appearance; when stale they are flabby, and the skin has a bluish tint. SOMNAMBULISM.—If the person habitually walks in his sleep the best course to take is to obtain medical advice; but where the habit is only occasional the laying of wet cloths all round the bedside will be found efficacious, for when the sleeper rises in the night and essays to walk the room, the sudden contact with the cold cloths will have an awakening effect. SORREL, To Grow.—This pot-herb may be raised from seed in the spring and transplanted ; but it is better to part the off-sets of the root in spring or autumn, and plant them a foot apart. SOUP (CLEAR), An Excellent.—Cut into very small pieces a pound of salt beef or pork, put it into a saucepan with six quarts of cold water, and boil it for three-quarters of an hour over a slow fire. When the meat is done, cut into slices some carrots, turnips, potatoes, and a cabbage, and boil these with the meat an hour longer ; then thicken with a pint of oatmeal, added gradually, and stir it well for ten minutes without intermis- sion. Season with pepper and salt. SOUP (PORTABLE).—Put into a stew-pan three pounds of beef, a shin of beef, two knuckles of veal, and a cow-heel; just cover the whole with water; add two or three onions and seasoning to taste. Stew the meat to ribbons, strain, and stand in a cold place. Take off the fat and boil it over a brisk fire for eight hours, keeping it well stirred ; then pour it out and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Put the soup into a large basin, and stand it in a stew-pan of boiling water, but so that none of the water will bubble into the soup, and keep it boiling until the soup is reduced to a good consistence. Pour into tin canisters and keep in a dry, cool place. SPASMS, To Relieve.—Best brandy, half a pint; essence of peppermint, twenty drops ; laudanum, forty drops. Mix. One teaspoonful to be taken in a wine-glass of warm water when required. SPINACH, To Cook.—Pick and wash three or four pounds of spinach, thoroughly freeing it from grit by means of successive waters, observing that no stalks are left. Drain it in a colander, put it into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of salt, but no water ; set it over the fire, and keep the lid on until the juices begin to draw. When the liquor boils, take the lid off the saucepan, and stir the spinach now and again to prevent it burning. When perfectly tender—it generally takes about a quarter of an hour—drain and press it in a sieve until dry ; then put it back into the saucepan with one ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of cream, or a little milk, and stir over the fire until it is dry and smooth. Make hot some small cup moulds, press the spinach into them, turn out, and garnish the dish of meat. SPINACH, To Grow.—The triangular-leaved spinach is sown the beginning of August for winter use ; the round-leaved in the spring to cut for summer use. For a main crop, sow the seed broad-cast and rake it in thinning the plants out to a distance of from three to five inches. If sow» in drills, put the plants a foot asunder.