146 to dry thoroughly, the wood will not afterwards absorb the colours. It should be kept free from scratches and indentations, and the colour never allowed to harden upon it. As a palette thus prepared has a hard and polished surface, no difficulty will be found in cleaning off the colours. PALPITATION OF THE HEART, To Relieve.—Socotrine aloes, gum-mastic, and powdered rhubarb, of each one scruple; make into a dozen pills, and take one before and one after dinner. Mix together six drams of ammoniated tincture of valerian and seven ounces of camphor mixture. A fourth part to be taken three times a day. Chalk has likewise a very quieting effect upon the heart, and can be obtained by the poorest person. PANADA FOR FARCES.—Soak in milk the crumbs of a twopenny roll for about half an hour, then squeeze out all the milk and put the crumbs into a stew-pan with a little bechamel (see Sauce) and a spoonful of stock or gravy. Put into a small saucepan a little butter, a small piece of ham, some parsley, a few small shallots, and some mush- rooms ; fry them gently over a slow fire ; when done moisten with a spoon- ful of broth ; let it boil for twenty minutes, then drain the broth through a sieve over the bread crumbs ; stir constantly till quite dry, then add a little butter, let it dry again, then add the yolks of two eggs, and pour it out on a plate to cool. When cold roll it into balls. PANADA FOR INVALIDS.—Boil a little lemon peel in water, sweeten it with sugar, and flavour with nutmeg ; add some bread crumbs, and boil it quickly till it is just thick enough to drink, then serve. This makes a good food for an invalid. PANCAKES.—Take some eggs, flour and milk, nutmeg, and ginger, and a little salt ; make them into a light batter, and fry in a small pan with dripping or lard. Sprinkle the pancakes with sugar and lemon juice, roll them up, and serve very hot. When eggs are scarce a little small beer may be substituted. The addition of cream will make them white, or they may be coloured with beetroot, boiled tender, and then mashed. PANSIES OR HEART’S-EASE, The Culture of.—There are many varieties of this effective flower, ranging in colour from a milky-white to a deep purple. They require a rich, light, well-drained, but yet not a dry, soil. They may be multiplied by cuttings, taken in spring, from the ends of the shoots, slipping them off just below a joint; or they may be increased by root division. They require plenty of air and sunshine to bring their bloom to perfection. PAPER (CARBON), for Duplicate Writing.—Mix some lamp- black and sweet oil, and apply it with a piece of felt to the surface of thin or tissue paper ; or in making a quantity, draw the sheets through a bath of the mixture. When perfectly dry, they may be used in the following way :—Place on a table a sheet of oiled paper (see below), cover it with the carbon paper, and on the top of this put a sheet of white paper ; arrange another set of sheets in precisely the same order, and with a pencil write upon the upper sheet, bearing rather hard on the same. In this manner some six or nine copies can be obtained, according to the substance of the paper used. PAPER (FIREPROOF).—If paper be saturated with alum it will not easily take fire, but it will resist the moisture of the air. PAPER (OILED), for Duplicate Writing.—Put upon a table three or four sheets of thin paper, and with a brush dab some sweet oil over the surface ; cover these with three or four other sheets, applying oil in the same manner as before ; repeat the process till all the paper is used up, then place a board on the top, and on this put a heavy weight; let it remain