20 BLUE PILL.—Blue pill mass, three grains; compound extract of colocynth, three grains ; essence of ginger, two or three drops. Sufficient for twenty pills. One pill to be taken at bed-time, followed by a black draught (which see) in the morning. BLUE (BERLIN), To Make.—See Berlin Blue. BLUE (PRUSSIAN), To Manufacture.—See Prussian Blue. BOARDS, To Extract Grease from.—Cover the grease with a thick coating of soft soap, then make an iron shovel red hot and hold it close over the soap, wash at once with fullers’ earth water, and afterwards with clear water. BOARDS, To Whiten.—To one part of lime add two parts of soft soap and three parts of silver sand. Lay a little on the boards, rub thoroughly with a wet scrubbing brush, rinse with clean water, and wipe dry. This mode has the additional advantage of keeping away vermin. BOILS.—Bring these tumours to a head by hot poultices of camo- mile flowers or white lily root, fermenting with hot water, or by a plaster of shoemakers’ wax. When ripe prick the centre with a needle or slit it with a lancet, and apply bread poultices till the discharge is cleared away. Purify the blood with a course of medicine. BONE, To Stain—See Ivory, Horn, and Bone. BOOK-EDGES, To Gild.—Press the leaves tightly together, cut them even, and scrape them smooth ; size them with isinglass glue mixed up with spirits of wine, then apply gold leaf, and when quite dry buniish with a blood-stone or dog’s-tooth. BOOKS, To Keep Damp from Injuring.—A few drops of any per- fumed oil will prevent books from being injured by damp. This remedy was well known and appreciated by the Romans, who employed oil of cedar to preserve their valuable manuscripts. BOOTS, To Keep them Soft.—If boots are rubbed occasionally with neat's foot oil the leather will be kept soft and will wear very much longer than if this precaution were not taken. Boots that are hard from wet may be made pliable by rubbing them with paraffin. BOOT TOPS, To Clean.—Oxalic acid, one ounce; salts of lemon, one ounce ; cuttle-fish bone, one ounce ; cream of tartar, one ounce. Mix. Apply with a sponge. BOOTS, Varnish for.—To two pints of vinegar and one of water, add half a pound of logwood chips, a quarter of a pound of glue, a quarter of an ounce of finely-powdered indigo, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and a quarter of an ounce of soft soap. Put the whole into a pot and boil them together for ten minutes, then strain the liquor. When cold it is ready for use. Wash the boots free from dirt, allow them to dry, and apply the varnish with a sponge. BOOTS, WATERPROOFING FOR.—See Waterproofing for Boots and Shoes. BORAGE, To Cultivate.—This herb is raised in spring, summer, and autumn from seed sown where the plants are intended to remain, and thinned out from six to ten inches apart. BOSTON CREAM.—Loaf sugar, one pound; essence of lemon, ten drops ; tartaric acid, two ounces ; boiling water, two quarts. To be well beaten when lukewarm, bottle when cold. One wineglassful in a tumbler of water, with a little carbonate of soda, makes a refreshing drink. BOTTLES, To Clean.—Discolorations from wine, green marks from vegetation, &c., may be removed from bottles in the following manner :—Put into the bottle a raw potato cut into small pieces, with a tablespoonful of salt and twice that amount of water ; shake well until the