93 INFLUENZA, To Remove.—Place the feet in hot water, with a blanket spread over the knees, for twenty minutes, then, without stopping to dry them, dab off the majority of the water ; place the feet in a warm blanket at the moment of getting into bed, and drink a glassful of hot lemonade. Or, mix a quarter of a pound of ginger, an ounce: and a half of cayenne pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Dissolve a teaspoonful in a cupful of water, sweeten to taste, and take at bed-time. INK (BLACK), To Make.—Put three quarters of a pound of bruised nutgalls into a gallon of water, let it stand for a couple of days, then add six ounces of copperas, a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic, and six drops of creosote. Let it stand for a fortnight, shaking it up every alternate day ; afterwards let it settle, and pour off the clear liquor for use. INK (BLUE).—Pour on to one ounce of finely powdered Prussian blue two ounces of concentrated hydrochloric acid ; let stand for four-and- twenty hours, then dilute with water to the strength required ; pour it into a thick bottle, and keep closely corked. INK (BLUE MARKING).—Dissolve one dram of crystallised nitrate of silver in three drams of water of ammonia. In another vessel dissolve one dram of crystallised carbonate of soda, a dram and a half of gum-arabic, and thirty grains of sulphate of copper in four drams of dis- tilled water. Mix the two solutions, and apply. INK (COPYING).—To a gallon and a half of water add two pounds of powdered galls, half a pound of sulphate of iron, six ounces of logwood, six ounces of gum, a quarter of a pound of best white sugar, two quarts of vinegar, and a few drops of oil of cloves. Stir it frequently for a fortnight, when it will be ready for use. INK (CRIMSON MARKING).—Dissolve one ounce of nitrate of silver and one ounce and a half of carbonate of soda in crystals, separ- ately, in distilled water ; then mix the solutions, collect and wash the precipitate, and, while still moist, put it into a stone mortar, add to it two drams forty grains of tartaric acid, and rub together till effervescence has ceased ; dissolve six grains of carmine in six ounces of liquor ammonia (882), and add to it the tartrate of silver, then mix in six drams of white sugar and ten drams of powdered gum-arabic, and add as much distilled water as will make six ounces. INK (FADED), To Restore.—Dip the writing in a weak solution of prussiate of potash, slightly acidulated with muriatic acid, observing so to apply the liquid as to prevent the ink spreading. Manuscripts rendered illegible by age may also be restored by moistening them, by means of a feather, with an infusion of galls. Dipping the paper in water containing sulphuret of ammonia, or ex- posing it to the vapour of that substance, will likewise achieve the object. INK FOR BOOK COVERS (QUICK DRYING).—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gum-arabic in sufficient acetic acid to make a thin mucilage, and then add one ounce of beeswax, a quarter of an ounce of Brown’s japan, half an ounce of asphaltum varnish, and one pound of woodcut ink. INK FOR GARDEN LABELS.—Dissolve ten grains of chloride of platinum in two ounces of rain water. Apply with a quill pen. A cheap fluid for bright zinc may be made as follows:—Mix in an earthen mortar two ounces of verdigris, two ounces of sal ammoniac, an ounce of lampblack, and a pint of water. Shake well before using. A wooden spatula should be used in mixing the above ingredients.