163 . PULSE, To Ascertain the State of Health by Means of the.—The pulsations of the heart of a healthy babe varies from 130 to 140 per minute; at one year of age, from 120 to 130 ; at two years from zoo to 110; at three, 90 to 100 ; at seven, 85 to 90 ; at fourteen, 80 to 83. The pulse of an adult should range between 75 and 80, and that of an aged person about 60 per minute. PUMPKIN, OR GOURD, To Grow.—Sow the seed in a hot- bed in April for transplanting in May to the natural ground on stable manure. They may occupy any open sunny space and either run upon the ground or be trained against a railing. PURGATIVES, Active.—Dissolve an ounce of Epsom salts in three times that quantity of compound infusion of senna. The above quantity will make two good doses. Another :—Mix ten grains of calomel with one dram of powdered jalap and twenty grains of sugar. This quantity will make two doses for an adult. PURPLE (TRANSPARENT), For Painting.—Boil four ounces of Brazil wood and half an ounce of logwood in a pint of stale beer till the desired colour is obtained, which may be ascertained by dipping a piece of white paper into the liquor. If too red, add a little more logwood, by means of which any desired shade may be obtained. The colour may then be fixed by the addition of a little alum. PUTTY AND PAINT, Solvent for Old—Make a paste with soft soap and a solution of caustic soda ; or with slaked lime and pearlash. Lay it on with a brush or rag and leave it for some hours, when the old putty or paint may be removed with ease. The application of diluted sulphuric acid, or nitric or muriatic acid, will also soften putty. PUTTY (GLAZIERS’), To Make—Mix whiting and linseed oil, and work them together to the consistence of a thick paste. PYROPHORUS ; or, Air Tinder. — Mix three parts of alum with one of wheat flour, and calcine them in a common phial till the blue flame disappears. When cold the phial must be well stopped with a good cork. On exposure to the atmosphere the sulphuret attracts moisture from the air and generates sufficient heat to kindle the carbonaceous matter mingled with it. QUADRUPEDS, To Stuff.—See Birds, Quadrupeds, &c., To Stuff. QUAILS AND GREEN PEAS.—Empty, singe, and truss the quails ; put them into a stew-pan, wrapped in layers of bacon, with two spoonfuls of broth, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, and cloves. Stew them for twenty minutes over a very slow fire. Have ready some bacon boiled with peas, to which add the quails, boil together for a few moments, then dish up the quails and bacon, thicken the peas liquor, and pour it over the meat. QUAILS, Fricassee of.—Cut up the birds, and toss them in a saucepan with a few mushrooms and a little melted butter, a slice of ham cut up small, a bunch of herbs, cloves, pepper, and salt ; add some good gravy, and simmer the whole slowly. When nearly ready, thicken the regout with eggs beaten up with a little gravy. QUAILS (ROAST).—These birds are not drawn before they are hung to the fire. About ten minutes suffices to cook them. When done, serve on toast, with fresh butter. QUASSIA, Infusion of.—Pour a pint and a half of boiling water on to one dram of quassia chips or raspings and the peel of an orange. Let stand till cold, then strain. Do e : Fiom one and a haif to two ounces three