PORK PIE.—Cut the meat from some loin chops, chop it up fine, season with pepper and salt, cover with puff paste, and bake. When sufficiently done, put in some cullis, with the essence of a couple of onions mixed with a little mustard. PORK SAUSAGES.—Chop together some fat and lean pork, without skin or gristle ; season with finely-powdered dried sage, pepper, and salt; mix well with a few bread crumbs, and press into skins. PORK (SPARE RIB OF), To Roast a.—Hang it before a good fire, dredge it with flour, and baste with butter. It will take from two hours and a half to three hours to cook. About twenty minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with pounded sage and a pinch of salt. PORK, To Choose.—The lean of young pork will break when pinched; the rind of old pork is thick and tough. The flesh of fresh pork is smooth, firm, and of a clear colour, and the fat set; when stale it looks clammy and flabby. If the fat is full of kernels the pork should not be eaten, for it is unwholesome. PORK, To Pickle.—Rub the pieces all over with saltpetre, let them drain for a day, then rub them with brine consisting of one pound of salt, half a pound of coarse sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre ; put them in a tub, cover with common salt, and lay a weight upon them to keep them down and to exclude the air. When required for cooking, scrape off the salt, and soak the meat for half an hour in clear water ; put into a saucepan of cold water, and boil till the rind is tender. PORRIDGE (OATMEAL).—Put four large spoonfuls of coarse oatmeal into a basin, and gradually wet it with milk till it has taken up a quart, stir it briskly into a quart of boiling water, add a little salt, and boil till it becomes thick. Keep stirring all the while it is boiling, or it will become lumpy. It may also be made entirely with water. In this case, drop the meal gradually into the boiling water with a little salt, stirring constantly until it is thick. When done, pour into plates, and spread treacle or sugar over the top, or eat it with milk alone. Time, half an hour. PORRIDGE (ONION).—This is made in precisely the same manner as green peas porridge ; using a dozen good-sized onions or leeks instead of the peas. PORRIDGE (PEAS).—Boil a pint and a half of green peas in two quarts of water till they are tender. Then have ready four large spoonfuls of oatmeal mixed by degrees with a quart of milk, and stir it with the peas until the whole thickens. Add a little lard or dripping, and pepper and salt to taste. It is also made with peas meal in the same way as oatmeal porridge. PORTER, To Brew.—Take an equal quantity of brown amber and pale malt, and turn them into the mash tub as follows:—Turn on the first liquor at 165 degrees ; mash one hour, and then coat the whole with dry malt. Set the tap in one hour. Mix ten pounds of brown hops to the quarter of malt, half old and half new ; boil the first wort briskly with the hops for a quarter of an hour, and after putting into the copper one pound and a half of Leghorn juice to the barrel, turn the whole into the coolers, rousing the wort all the time. Turn on the second liquor at 174 degrees, and in an hour set tap again. This second wort having run off, turn on again at 145 degrees ; mash for an hour, and stand for same; in the mean- time boiling the second wort with the same hops for an hour. Turn these into the coolers as before, and let down into the tub at 64 degrees, mixing the yeast as it comes down. Cleanse the second day at 80 degrees, previously throwing in a mixture of flour and salt, and rousing thoroughly. For private use, every quarter of malt ought to yield two and a half barrels, but brewers would run three barrels to the quarter