49 CREAM (RASPBERRY).—This in made in precisely the same way as is hereinafter directed for preparing strawberry cream, the only difference being in the kind of fruit used. CREAM (SALAD).—See Salad Cream. CREAM (STRAWBERRY).—Add to half a pint of cream three ounces of strawberry jam ; pulp it through a sieve; then put to it the juice of half a lemon ; whisk it quickly at the edge of a dish, and lay the froth on a sieve ; add the remainder of the lemon juice, and proceed in the same manner till no more froth will rise ; then put the cream into glasses, or into a dish, and place the froth, well drained, on the top. CREAM (VANILLA).—Take a pint of cream and a pint of milk, and boil them together, throw in a lump of sugar and a little salt ; then beat up with a dozen fine eggs, and rub through a tammy in order that the eggs may be well mixed with the cream, adding a few drops of essence of vanilla. CREAMS, Concerning.—All creams are made in the same way, the only variations being in the taste and colour. It is generally reckoned that fifteen eggs are required for a quart of cream or milk, but where economy is an object less will be found to answer the purpose. Isinglass should be added very cautiously. It is best to try a little in a small mould. If the cream is not stiff enough a little more isinglass may be added with a minimum of trouble. A little salt is needed for all except fruit creams. When made in moulds they may be turned out without difficulty if the mould be steeped for a few moments in lukewarm water. Previous to turning them over on to the dish, the top of the cream should be damped with a clean cloth. CRICKETS, Poison for.—Place a little ginger cordial in a dish before the fire in the evening. The crickets will be attracted by it, and will perish after the repast. CROCUSES, The Treatment of.—Plant in September, at a depth of three or four inches, in a light, moist soil. Take them up every third year for division of the corms or bulbs and for transplantation, but allow their leaves to wither before disturbing them. In small gardens, where space is an object, they may be sown in pots sunk in the earth so as to form beds or baskets, whence they can be removed without injury after they have flowered to make room for summer plants. CROUP.—This disease begins with a short, dry cough, quick breathing, and hoarseness, which are soon followed by a peculiar croaking, rasping, grating sound in the voice, which, when once heard, can never be mistaken. It has been well described as like the noise of a fowl when caught in the hand. It needs immediate medical attention, for if neglected it will destroy life in a couple of days, or even less. When the child is seized with the complaint, immediately place it up to the neck in warm water for a quarter of an hour, dry, and wrap in flannel. Give one or two teaspoonfuls of ipecacuanha wine in a little warm water, sweetened, and if needful repeat it after fifteen minutes, so that the child vomits freely ; then make a poultice two inches thick of two parts bran and one of mustard, put it well up in the throat, and keep it on as long as possible. Three hours after vomiting give a teaspoonful of water with two drops of ipecacuanha wine in it for each year of age up to ten drops. Repeat two or three times in the twenty-four hours, so as to keep the patient on the point of vomiting. Give frequently a spoonful of treacle and vinegar for the cough. CRUMPETS, To Make.—Beat up a couple of fine eggs and put th™,nt0 a qua« of warm milk and water, with a tablespoon iul of yeast • add flour sufficient to make it a little thicker than ordinary batter pudding.'