3 ALLSPICE, Tincture of.—Steep an ounce and a half of bruised allspice in a pint of brandy for a fortnight, shaking it frequently, then pour off the clear liquor. Will be found very useful for culinary purposes. ALMOND CAKES.—Sweet almonds, one pound ; refined sugar, one pound ; best flour, three-quarters of a pound, and ten eggs. Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar with a little orange-flower water ; beat up the eggs, then gradually mix the other ingredients, pour into a buttered mould, and bake. ALMOND FLAVOURING.—See Noyeau, Quintessence of. ALMOND CUSTARD.—To one pint of milk add half an ounce of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and sufficient sugar to sweeten to taste ; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, then add three or four drops of essence of almonds, and pour the custard into cups. ALMOND PASTE FOR CAKES.—See Wedding Cakes, Almond Paste for. ALMOND PASTE FOR THE HANDS.—Beat together a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, six drams of white wax, and six drams of spermaceti ; put up carefully in rose-water. ALMONDS, To Blanch.—Put them into a saucepan of cold water, and gradually bring to a scalding heat ; then take them out, peel them quickly, and throw them into cold water as they are done ; afterwards dry them in a cloth. ALOES, To Propagate.—Take slips, suckers, or bottom off-sets from the old plants, and set them separately in pots of very light, dry compost, press the earth firmly about the roots, and supply with a moderate amount of water. Place the pots in a greenhouse, defend them from the mid-day sun, and keep the mould only just damp. The plants will be rooted in a very short time. During the winter months water very sparingly, and only when the pots are very dry. AMALGAM (ELECTRICAL).—Melt together in an iron ladle one ounce of zinc and the same quantity of tin, then withdraw it from the fire and add two ounces of quicksilver, also made hot ; stir well together with an iron rod ; pour the melted metal into a perfectly dry wooden box, and shake it violently until cold. Preserve in a corked glass phial. This amalgam is used for covering the cushions of electrical machines, for which purpose a little must be poured on to a piece of clean paper, crushed quite smooth with a flat-bladed knife, and then spread thinly on the surface of the rubber, previously touched over with a little tallow. AMERICAN PLANTS, Soil for.—Azaleas, rhododendrons, andromedas, kalmias, ledums, and other plants which are generally con- sidered to require bog earth for their successful cultivation, may be grown in a compost of dead leaves, spent tan, rotted sawdust, decomposed straw, grass mowings, and burnt vegetable refuse of all kinds, mixed with suffi- cient garden soil to make it retentive of moisture. The plants should occupy a situation not too much exposed to the direct influence of the sun. AMMONIA (MURIATE OF), To Test.—See Muriate of Ammonia. ANCHOVIES, A Substitute for.—Pound together one pound of table-salt, two ounces of bay-salt, a pound of saltpetre, an ounce of sal- prunella, three or four grains of cochineal. Then take half a peck of sprats, place a layer of the fish at the bottom of a jar or pan, cover them with a layer of the ingredients, then another layer of fish, and some more of the pickle, and so on. Press down hard, cover closely, and stand it by for six months, when it will be ready for use. ANCHOVIES, Butter of.—Take a dozen anchovies which have been pickled, wash them, remove the heads and bones, beat them in a