184 SPONGE CAKES.—Rub the rind of a lemon upon half a pound of loaf sugar, and put it with half a dozen whole eggs into an earthen pan. Stand the pan in boiling water, keeping the contents well mixed until rather warm ; then remove the pan from the water, and whisk until quite cold aud somewhat thick, and stir in gently half a pound of sifted flour. Have ready buttered and dusted with sugar a dozen small sponge cake tins, put a tablespoonful of the mixture into each ; sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. SPONGES, To Clean.—Steep the sponge in buttermilk for some two or three hours, then squeeze it out, and wash it in cold water. Lemon- juice is also good. SPRAINS, Liniment for.—Take an ounce and a half of strong liniment of ammonia, an ounce of oil of turpentine, an ounce of spirits of camphor, and a quarter of an ounce of yellow soap. Mix well, saturate a piece of flannel, and apply it to the sprain, covering the flannel with a dry bandage. SPRAINS, Lotion for.—Add two drams of Goulard’s extract of lead and the same quantity of sulphuric ether to a pint of cold water. This lotion will subdue the inflammation and give relief from pain. SPRING MIXTURE.—Carbonate of soda, Epsom salts, cream of tartar, and loaf sugar, of each two ounces; tartaric acid, one ounce; citrate of magnesia, one ounce; and essence of lemon, a few drops. Reduce the whole to a fine powder, mix, and keep well corked. For a dose take one tablespoonful in two-thirds of a glass of water. SPRUCE BEER.—Pour eight gallons of boiling water on to the same quantity of cold water; add sixteen pounds of treacle or molasses, and a few tablespoonfuls of essence of spruce, and stir the whole together ; then add half a pint of yeast and set it in a warm room for a couple of days, leaving the bung-hole open. When fermentation has abated, close up the cask, or bottle off the beer, and in a few days it will be fit to drink. This forms a cheap and refreshing beverage, and is a powerful antiscor- butic. SQUIRRELS. —These animals should in a domestic state be provided with a revolving cylinder in their cage, so that they may always keep themselves upon the move with a minimum amount of exertion. They require to be kept very clean, and the food best suited to their taste consists of nuts (especially hazel) and bread and milk. STABLES, To Disinfect.—Take two parts by weight of sulphate of iron (copperas) and one part by weight of slacked lime ; mix them thoroughly, and let them lie in a heap for five hours ; then add and mix two parts by weight of dried and powdered clay. This powder will be found preferable to carbolic acid or tar, and was largely used in the army stables during the American war. The best time for applying it is before making the bed in the evening, when the stall has been thoroughly swept; a dusting, or thin coating, will be sufficient to last the night. In the morning, after cleaning the stall again, another application should be made. STARCH (GUM-ARABIC), for Cambric, Muslin, &c.— Pound to a powder a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic, and pour on to it a quart of boiling water, cover it over, and set it aside for several hours ; then pour it carefully from the dregs, put it into a bottle, cork it well, and keep it for use. When required, put a tablespoonful into each pint of starch. This imparts a newness to thin goods after they are washed. STEEL (CAST), To Unite.—Pound a piece of borax to a powder and moisten it with water; then scarve and prepare the steel in the same manner as iron is done ; dip the steel occasionally while heating into the