168 one large spoonful of lard or olive oil, one tablespoonful of white sugar, a little salt, and three-quarters of a pound of flour. Work the lard into the rice, then the sugar and salt, add the eggs, and lastly the milk and flour. Beat up the whole until it is perfectly smooth and free from lumps, and bake in muffin rings. These cakes are very wholesome and delicious. RICKETS, To Cure.—Give a nourishing diet to the child, with the following powder night and morning :—Carbonate of iron, six grains ; powdered rhubarb, four grains. A little lime-water should be mixed with all the drink. A dry atmosphere is best for the sufferers. RINGWORM, Lotions for.—Sulphate of zinc, two scruples; sugar of lead, fifteen grains; water, six ounces. Wash the parts two or three times a day. Or. paint the rings with black writing ink. Tincture of iodine, applied with a feather, is considered to be a speedy cure. Another good remedy is two drams of muriated tincture of steel (steel drops) mixed with four tablespoonfuls of soft water. Bathe with it night and morning, and let a little of the lotion dry on. RISSOLES.—Melt some dripping in a frying-pan; beat up an egg, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of cooked meat chopped small, the same quantity of bread crumbs, and a like amount of suet, a cupful of parsley, a few mixed herbs, pepper, and salt. Beat up another egg and pour it on to a plate. Divide the mixture into small pieces, roll them on a floured board into balls; dip them in the plate of egg and roll them in bread crumbs ; put them into the pan of fat, and fry to a nice brown ; drain, and serve garnished with fried parsley. ROAN LEATHER, To Restore.—Beai an egg to a strong froth, let it subside, then add to it a small quantity of vinegar. Rub the ‘ ‘ glair ” on with a sponge or flannel. ROCK CAKES.—Rub two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour. Mix together a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one ounce of mixed peel, a little nutmeg, and salt. Beat up an egg with two spoonfuls of milk, add to the dry ingredients, and mix to a stiff paste. Take up the mixture with two forks, place on a greased baking-tin in little rough heaps, and bake for fifteen minutes. ROLLERS (PRINTERS’).—Soak overnight ten and a half pounds of genuine Irish glue, and in the morning drain it for one hour by means of a covered colander. Then boil two and a half gallons of black treacle for twenty minutes, and skim it well during the whole time. Next add one pound of purified indiarubber dissolved in alcohol, and stir until it combines with the treacle. Add the glue, and boil for forty minutes, stirring occasionally ; then put in two ounces of Venice turpentine, twelve ounces of glycerine, and four ounces of strong vinegar; boil for six or seven minutes, and pour the mass into moulds. ROSE BUSHES, To Clear Blight from.—Mix together equal quantities of tobacco dust, or snuff, and sulphur, and strew it over the bushes in the early morning, while the dew is upon them, and an hour or so afterwards syringe with water, or, better still, with a decoction of elder leaves. Repeat the operation three or four mornings in succession. ROSE LEAVES, To Preserve.—Gather them when dry, and pack them in a jar with common salt; or they may be pressed down tightly and sprinkled with brandy. ROSE OIL, for Improving the Hair.—Put into a pipkin a quantity of dried rose leaves, cover them with hot olive oil, and keep hot for some hours. The oil will extract both the colour and the odour.