67 dark cellar for six weeks, then press the essence through a crape strainer, pour it into a clear glass bottle, and expose it for forty days to the sun’s heat and evening dews to purify. A single drop of the essence thus ex- pressed will scent a pint of water. FLOWERS, To Preserve.—Cut flowers may be prevented from withering by immersing them two or three times in a solution of gum arabic and water, allowing one coating of the gum to dry before giving the next. Flowers in water may be preserved for a fortnight by adding a little car- bonate of soda or saltpetre to the water. Salt also helps to prolong their freshness. FLUMMERY (FRENCH).—Melt half an ounce of isinglass, and stir it into a quart of cream. Boil it over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of rose-water. Wet a mould, pour the flummery in, and let it stand till cold. FLYCATCHERS.—Boil linseed oil with a little yellowrosin until it forms a viscid, stringy paste when cold. Spread it upon paper by means of a large brush. Or, melt a quarter of a pound of rosin, mix it with two ounces of treacle and one dram of Venice turpentine, and spread it on paper. FORCEMEATS.—Mix together six ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of lean ham, two ounces of butter, six ounces of finely-shred beef suet, a little thyme, parsley, and mace, a pineh of cayenne, the yolks of three eggs, and a dessert-spoonful of salt; then add a tablespoonful of milk and twelve drops of essence of lemon. Mix again, form into balls, and fry in lard, or use as stuffing. FORGET-ME-NOT.—Dwarf plants for pot culture of this charm- ing little flower may be obtained by striking terminal shoots, during the early part of spring, in a gentle bottom-heat, and allowing them a good supply of water, light, and air. FOWLS (BOILED).—Empty the fowl without making too large an aperture, singe it, and scald the legs, skewer to it a good thick slice of fat bacon, put it into boiling hot broth, and let it simmer from an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to size. When done, drain it in a dish, wipe off the fat, and send it to table with some of the liquor in which it was boiled. FOWLS’ EGGS, To Increase the Laying of.—A teaspoonful of cayenne pepper mixed with the food of each dozen of fowl and given every other day will greatly increase the laying powers of the birds. A little lime, especially bricklayers' rubbish, old ceilings, &c., is beneficial. Some persons throw egg-shells to the birds, but this practice is not to be com- mended, as it teaches them to eat their eggs. FOWLS (ROAST).—Clean the fowl thoroughly, and put a small piece of salt butter, covered with pepper, inside ; secure a piece of greased paper over the breast, and hang it to roast ; when half done, remove the paper, so that it may become of a nice uniform colour. It will take from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour to do. Serve with bread sauce, or parsley and butter. FOWLS (ROAST), To Carve As fowls are generally served in couples, it is not considered indecorous to remote one irom the dish to the plate of the carver. Fix the fork firmly into the centre of the breast, slip the knife under the legs, lay the joint over with a jerk, and the part will give way. Detach the wing in the same way, and do the same with the other leg and wing. Next remove the merry-thought by slipping the knife through at the point of the breast and bending it back ; draw out the neck bones by putting the fork through them and wrenching them carefully away