24 solve two ounces of verdigris in a gill of strong vinegar; apply, and, when dry, polish with a soft brush and plumbago or crocus martis (colcothar). BROSE (SCOTCH).—Put half a pint of oatmeal into a porringer, with a little salt if necessary ; add as much of the liquor in which meat has been boiled as will make it the consistence of hasty pudding, or a little thicker ; then take some of the fat that swims on the broth, put it on the crowdie, and eat in the same way as hasty pudding. BRUISES OR ULCERS.—The application of tincture of opium is highly recommended for either of the above. The following is also a good application for bruises :—Iodine, twelve grains ; lard or spermaceti ointment, half an ounce. To be rubbed on two or three times a day. BRUNSWICK BLACK.—Melt one pound of commonasphaltum and add half a pint of linseed oil and one quart of oil of turpentine. This may be thinned down to any extent by adding more turpentine. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, To Cook.—Put them into boiling water with a small piece of soda, let them boil for a quarter of an hour, then add a little salt, and boil ten minutes longer. Drain, and serve with melted butter. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, To Grow.—A good rich soil is indis- pensable to the growth of these fine winter greens. Sow the seed thinly the second week in March, and for succession about the middle of April. When sufficiently strong, plant them out in rows two feet apart and eighteen inches from plant to plant. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.—Cut some cold boiled beef into slices, sprinkle them with pepper, and fry in a little butter to a light brown. Boil a cabbage, or a cauliflower, squeeze it dry, chop it small, and fry it for a few moments with a little salt. When done, serve the cabbage in the middle of the dish and lay the slices of beef round. BUGS, To Destroy.—The application of a little petroleum or paraffin to their resorts will effectually destroy these house vermin ; or a small quantity of turpentine or corrosive sublimate applied with a brush to the crevices of the furniture will produce the desired result. BULBS, To Force at any Season.—Half fill a flower-pot with quicklime, then fill it up with fine mould, plant the bulb, and keep the earth constantly moist. BULLFINCHES.—Feed on rape seed and German paste, with an occasional yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a little poppy seed, and a few grains of rice. They may be taught to pipe by means of a mouth organ or a flageolet. The young birds require to be kept very warm, and to be fed on rape seed, scalded, bruised, and soaked in milk. BUNIONS, Ointment for.—To half an ounce of spermaceti ointment or lard add twelve grains of iodine. Rub the mixture on two or three times a day. BUNIONS, Plaster for.—Melt together equal quantities of Bur- gundy pitch and yellow soap ; spread the mixture upon linen or soft leather, and apply. BUNS (BATH).—Beat up the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, and add thereto a quarter of a pound of flour and two dessert- spoonfuls of solid fresh yeast. Place it in front of the fire, and as soon, as it has well risen add ten ounces of butter rubbed into one pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, and a few carraway comfits. Cover it with a cloth and again set it before the fire to rise. Then form the buns, brush the tops over with egg and milk, cover them with carraway comfits, and bake in a quick oven.