9r HEARTBURN, Lozenges for.—Powdered sugar, one hundred parts ; prepared chalk, fifteen parts ; sub-carbonate of soda, five parts ; mix with gum mucilage. HEARTBURN, Remedies for.—Add two drams of carbonate oi magnesia to a cupful of milk, and drink it whenever the rising is ex- perienced. Eating a raw turnip will also take away the smarting sensation. The following effervescing driuk is also good :—The juice of an orange, with loaf sugar to flavour, and, in proportion to the acidity of the orange, a little bicarbonate of soda. Mix the orange juice, sugar, and water together in a tumbler, then add the soda ; stir, and drink while effer- vescing. HEARTHS, To Take Grease Spots Out of.—Grease spots may generally be removed from hearths by covering them with hot ashes or live coals. Where this is not effectual, place some fullers’ earth upon the part and let it remain for some hours. HEATH MOULD, Substitute for.—Well mix silver sand, light loam, leaf mould, rotten sawdust and tan, baked vegetable refuse, and the sweepings from the bottom of a wood stack. HEATH, The Cultivation of.—The various kinds of heath are struck in sand, under a bell-glass, from very small cuttings of the terminal shoots, but they are of very slow growth. They require to be planted in heath mould, to be kept at a uniform temperature, and never too wet nor too dry. Those from the Cape rarely survive our winter unless the utmost care is bestowed upon them. HEDGEHOGS.—These quadrupeds are useful in bakehouses and other places which are frequented by beetles. They should be kept in a cage during the day and released at night to catch their prey. Feed them on bread and milk, and give them occasionally a few earth worms. HELLEBORE (BLACK), or Christmas Rose.—This plant flowers from December to February, according to the weather, and bears a handsome white blossom tinged with pink. It requires a light, fresh loam soil and is propagated by division of the root. It should not be dis- turbed too often. It may also be grown from seed sown as soon as it is ripe. The plants thus produced will flower in their third year. It is usual to set them at the foot of an east wall, as in that position their flowers escape damage from severe south-west storms. HEPATIC AS.—These charming spring plants, whose flowers appear before the leaves, are universally admired. There are both single and double varieties. The former are generally grown from seed, sown directly it is ripe. As this continues green for some time after it reaches maturity it is necessary to watch it closely, as it falls with the slightest touch. The double varieties are increased by division of the stools, but they do not like to be disturbed too often. They should be planted in a light loam soil, and occupy a half-shady position, where they will not be too dry. It is advisable to cut away the dead leaves at the end of December, so that the flowers may have full opportunity of displaying themselves. HERB BEER.—Boil for one hour In five gallons of water two ounces of dandelion leaves, five ounces of sliced ginger root, and half an ounce of hops ; strain, and add three pounds of brown sugar, and two ounces of Spanish juice. Ferment for twenty-four hours, and bottle for use. Nettles, balm, and other herbs may be used instead of dandelion. HERB MEDICINE, To Preserve.—If the bottles are corked tightly while the medicine is still quite warm it will keep an indefinite time.