42 baking-tin and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve with caper sauce. COD (BOILED).—Cod intended for boiling should first be well salted, and allowed to hang for a couple of days so that it may become firm. It requires to boil from a quarter to half an hour, according to size. Garnish with the roe, milt, and liver, lemon, and horseradish, and serve with oyster or shrimp sauce, accompanied with parsnips. COD (BROILED).—Cut fresh cod into slices an inch thick, dip them in thick melted butter, dredge with pepper and salt, and broil on a gridiron, which has previously been rubbed with chalk, till both sides are a good colour. Serve with parsley sauce. COD (CRIMPED).—Cut the fish into nice slices and lay them in salt and water for three hours, adding a wineglassful of vinegar ; put into boiling water with a handful of salt, and boil quickly for ten or fifteen minutes. Garnish with parsley, curled horseradish, and sliced lemon, and serve with cream, shrimp or oyster sauce. COD (CURRIED).—Cut the fish into handsome slices and fry them with some sliced onions to a good colour ; then stew them in white gravy, to which add a large teaspoonful of curry powder, two or three spoonfuls of cream, a little flour and butter, a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt. COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS (BOILED).—Clean and dry the fish, tie it together, and boil for half an hour in salt and water, into which a glass of vinegar has been put. Serve with egg or oyster sauce. COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, To Carve.—The back of the fish being placed towards the carver, an incision is first made down the thick part of the back as far as the bone, and then across the fish, at in- tervals of several inches, to a like depth, and slices cut from these openings, right and left, care being taken not to break the flakes. The gelatinous parts about the head and neck are considered a dainty, as is also the sound. The palate and tongue, if asked for, must be got at with a spoon. COD-LIVER OIL, To take.—This nourishing yet unpleasant medicine is best taken in new milk, and its disagreeable flavour can be covered by adding one dram of orange juice to every eight ounces of oil. CODS’ SOUNDS (BOILED).—Soak them in warm water for half an hour, remove the dirty skin, and boil until tender in equal parts of milk and water. Serve with egg sauce. COD (TAIL OF). — Rub it with salt, let it hang for a couple of days, and boil it in water with a little salt until the flesh may be readily removed from the bones, then take it up, cut into nice pieces, and fry in batter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce. COFFEE, To Prepare with Cold Water.—Pour a pint and a half of cold water upon two ounces of coffee ; boil it till the coffee falls to the bottom, and when it is clear at the top remove it from the fire, put in a small piece of isinglass to clear it, and when it is settled, pour it off into a coffee-pot. A small quantity of cold water added the instant it is taken from the fire is sometimes used to clear it. COFFEE, To Prepare with Hot Water.—Put into a coffee-pot five or six teaspoonfuls of newly roasted and ground Mocha or Java coffee, and pour thereon a quart of boiling water; let it stand for five or six minutes, and then fine it by pouring some into a cup and back again into the pot; let it settle, and it is ready to serve. Coffee should be an inlusion, not a decoction. COINS, To Take Impressions of.—See Medals. COLCHICUM ; or, Meadow Saffron.—This plant is found in moist pastures on heavy land, and is often employed in the garden as an