EGG FLIP.—Mix a pint of porter with the same amount of ale, pour it into a saucepan and make it warm ; add a quartern of gin, four eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg, and sufficient sugar to make it pleasant; pour backwards and forwards into a jug ; again place it over the fire, but do not allow it to boil. EGG HOT.—Pour a quart of old ale into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and add a little spice; then beat up six eggs in a large jug, and as the ale begins to warm take the froth off and add it to the eggs, continuing the beating up with each spoonful until the ale is near the point of boiling ; then pour a quartern of rum into the ale, and when it boils empty it very quickly into the jug, and pour it a few times to and fro, from vessel to vessel. Add sugar and spice to suit the palate. EGGS A LA MAITRE D’PIOTEL.—Roll a little flour in butter, moisten with boiling milk, and let it simmer for half an hour ; then throw a good quantity of butter into the sauce with some finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Stir until the butter is melted, slice boiled eggs into the sauce, add the juice of a lemon, and send to table quite hot. EGGS AND BACON.—Toast the bacon before the fire for about ten minutes, then put the fat into a frying-pan, make it quite hot, and break the eggs into it; pour fat over them repeatedly until the yoik becomes light ; dredge with salt and pepper, and serve. EGGS (CURRIED).—Make a cupful of gravy boiling hot, stir in a teaspoonful of curry powder, and lay in six hard-boiled eggs cut into thick slices. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes, turn the whole into a deep dish, and serve with boiled rice. EGGS (FRIED).—Break separately into a cup, without damaging the yolks, say, half a dozen eggs, put them into a dish, and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Then fry two ounces of butter, pour it over the eggs, put the whole into a frying-pan, and cook at a little distance from the fire. When done at the bottom, pass the salamander or a red-hot shovel over them till they turn white ; dish up carefully, and pour a little vinegar over them. EGGS (POACHED).—Half fill a saucepan with water, add a little vinegar and salt, and let it simmer ; then break the eggs separately in a cup, put them into the water, and boil three minutes. Three or four only should be boiled at one time, so as to ensure them all being cooked to the same degree. When a quantity are wanted, put those that are done into a basin of warm wrater while others are preparing. Trim them round, and dish them upon buttered toast, or, if for dinner, upon spinach. They are also served with veal gravy, clarified gravy, &c. EGG PUDDING.—Beat up half a dozen good-sized eggs, and mix them with two tablespoonfuls of flour and a pint and a half of milk ; add salt, nutmeg, lemon and orange-flower water to flavour, and boil for rather over an hour in a floured cloth. Serve with a sweet sauce. EGG-SHELLS, To Prevent the Corruption of.—Egg-shells in- tended for cabinets may be preserved from corruption by pouring into them a solution of corrosive sublimate, and shaking it about so that it comes into contact with every portion of the membrane. EGGS, To Preserve.—One of the easiest methods of preserving eggs is to pack them with the small end downwards, in clean, dry salt, and place them in a dry, cool situation. Eggs intended for keeping should never be laid upon their sides. The Scotch method is to place them in a netting, or in a sieve or colander, and immerse them for an instant in a vessel of boiling water before packing them away, keeping them free from damp straw., sawdust, or other matter that might communicate a musty flavour*