170 RUM PUNCH.—Rub a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar over a large lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skin ; then put the sugar into a punchbowl ; add the juice of the lemon (free from pips), and mix the two well together. Pour thereon a pint of boiling water ; stir, and add half a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Mix, and the punch will be ready to serve. To ensure success it is necessary to thoroughly incorporate the ingredients, and to diligently attend to the process of mixing. RUST, To Keep Iron and Steel Goods Free from.—Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in a pound of hog’s lard, take off the scum, and mix as much black lead as will impart an iron colour. Rub the mixture over the goods, let it remain on for twenty-four hours, then wipe it off with a clean rag. The articles will keep in good condition for some months. In ex- porting machinery it should be kept thickly coated with the mixture during the voyage. Polished steel may also be kept from rust by the use of pure paraffin wax, which should be warmed, rubbed on, and then wiped off with a woollen rag. White lead, tallow, and linseed oil, mixed to a thick paint, is likewise used for the same purpose. RUST, To Preserve Bright Grates from.—Make a strong paste of fresh lime and water, and with a fine brush smear it as thickly as possible over all the polished surface. By this simple means all the grates and fire-irons of an unoccupied house may be kept for months free from harm. RUST, To Remove.—Add one part of muriatic acid to four parts of water and plunge the rusty article into the bath so formed. Leave it to soak for twenty-four hours, then rub it well with a scrubbing brush. Wash it several times in plain water, dry it before a fire, and polish with oil and emery powder or emery cloth. Or, cover the iron or steel well with sweet oil, and let it remain for a couple of days ; then use unslacked lime, finely powdered, and rub it until all the rust disappears. SAGE, To Cultivate.—Sage may be raised from slips of the young shoots in April or May; but most successfully in May or June, by the young side shoots of the year, slipped or cut off about five or six inches long, divesting them of their under leaves, planting them down to the top leaves, ten or twelve inches apart, and giving them at once a good supply of water. SAGO GRUEL.—Scald a quarter of a pound of sago in hot water, strain through a hair sieve, and set over the fire with two quarts of water. Boil and skim till thick and clear, then add a pint of red wine and sugar to taste. Serve with sliced lemon and toast or dry biscuits. SAGO PUDDING.—Wash an ounce of sago, soak it for an hour in half a pint of cold water ; strain ; put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk, and let it simmer till clear, stirring frequently. Let it cool a little. Beat together an egg and an ounce of moist sugar ; stir them into the saucepan ; pour into a greased pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. SALAD CREAM.—Whisk the yolks of three fresh eggs with ten grains of cayenne pepper. Mix well together a dram and a half of salt, one ounce of mustard, half a pint of vinegar, and two ounces of salad oil; add the eggs, shake well, and bottle the mixture. SALAD DRESSING.—Take the yolks of two raw eggs, beat them up well, and add gradually salad oil, stirring all the time. When the mixture becomes very thick add vinegar, Yorkshire relish, and salt and peeper to taste.