6o ENGRAVINGS (MILDEWED), To Clean.—Place the en- graving in a bath of clean water for two hours, then dry it between blot- ting-paper, and repeat the process. When quite dry run over the under side of the engraving with a solution of chloride of lime, in the proportion of one part lime to twenty parts water. The wrorst places may be touched with dilute nitric acid (one part acid to ten parts water), then wash and dry as before. The great difficulty of this method, however, is to avoid injury being done to the engraving, as the paper becomes quite pulpy and friable before it is dry. ENGRAVINGS, To Clean.—Spread the picture on a smooth board, cover it with finely-powdered salt, which dissolve with lemon juice ; cleanse by pouring boiling water over it, and let it dry in a shady spot in the open air. If dried before the fire or by the heat of the sun it will acquire a yellow tinge. ENGRAVINGS, To Transfer.—Dip a sheet of white paper in a weak solution of starch, and, after it is dry, in a weak solution of oil of vitriol; let this dry also. Place the engraving over the vapour of iodine for a few seconds, and put it in a press covered with a sheet of the prepared paper ; let them remain for a few minutes, when an excellent copy will be produced. ERUPTIONS OF THE FACE, Mixture for.—Ipecacuanha wine, four drams ; flowers of sulphur, two drams ; tincture of cardamom, one ounce. Mix. A teaspoonful to be taken three times a day. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN, Lotion for.—Milk of bitter almonds, seven ounces ; bichloride of mercury, four grains ; spirits of rosemary, one ounce. Mix. Bathe the eruptions with the lotion three times a day. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN, Ointment for.—Simmer a little beef marrow over the fire, stir in a teaspoonful of brandy and a pinch of salt, then strain. Apply cold. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN, Powders for.—Flowers of sulphur, half a dram ; carbonate of soda, a scruple; tartarised antimony, one-eighth of a grain. Mix. One powder to be taken night and morning. LooENTIAL OIL, To Extract.—Essential oil may be extracted from herbs, roots, or barks by putting them into a bottle and pouring upon them a spoonful or so of ether. Cork well, and keep in a cool place for a few hours, then fill the bottle with cold water. The oil will swim upon the surface, and may be readily separated. ETCHING FLUIDS FOR STEEL.—Pyroligneous acid, four ounces ; alcohol, one ounce ; mix, and add nitric acid, one ounce, all by measure. Or, one ounce of iodine ; half a dram of iron filings, and four ounces of water. Mix, and dissolve. ETCHING GROUND FOR STEEL.—White wax, twoounces; black and Burgundy pitch, of each half an ounce ; melt together ; add by degrees powdered asphaltum, two ounces ; boil till a drop taken out on a plate will break, when cold, by being bent double two or three times ; then pour it into warm water, and form into small balls for use. Or melt together an equal weight of linseed oil and mastic. EVERLASTING FLOWERS, for Winter Bouquets.—Cut the flowers before they are fully expanded and suspend them heels upwards until they are perfectly stiff and dry. They may be made to assume various colours by dyeing. EVERTON TOFFEE.—Put half a pound of butter into a sauce- pan, and when it has melted add a pound of moist sugar and a pound ol