205 WINE (BLACK CURRANT).—Boil nine gallons of water with four pounds of loaf sugar; skim, and let it stand for forty-eight hours ; pour it on to six gallons of ripe currants ; let it stand two days longer ; strain through a bag ; let it stand three or four weeks to settle, then bottle off. WINE (CAMPHORATED SPIRITS OF), To Make.—Dis- solve two ounces of camphor in one pint of alcohol. Used as an outward application for paralytic numbness, rhuematic pains, &c. WINE (CHERRY).—Press the juice out of a quantity of cherries, and to each gallon of juice add a pint of black currant juice and two pounds of crushed white sugar. Put it into a cask, and when fermentation ceases, stop it close. Let it stand for four months, then bottle off. It will be ready for use in six weeks. WINE (COWSLIP).—Boil for half an hour three pounds of white sugar in a gallon of water, removing the scum as it rises. Pour it into a pan to cool, adding the rind of a lemon. 'When cold, add two quarts of cowslip flowers to the liquor, with the juice of the lemon ; stir it every two hours for a couple of days ; pour the strained liquor into a barrel ; let it stand for a month, then bottle it off, placing a piece of lump sugar in each bottle. If approved of a little brandy may be added. WINE (DAMSON AND SLOE).—To each gallon of sound ripe fruit add the same measure of boiling water, cover, and set it in a warm room for five or six days, stirring it three or four times a day ; then strain the liquor, and to each gallon of wine add four and a half pounds of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, pour it into a cask, and when fermentation has ceased bung it up, and let it remain for six or eight months, when it may be bottled off. WINE (ELDERBERRY).—Elderberries, ten gallons; water, ten gallons ; sugar, forty-five pounds ; red tartar, eight ounces ; sliced ginger root, four ounces ; bitter almonds, three ounces; brandy, one gallon. Proceed in exactly the same manner as in making currant wine. The ginger root and bitter almonds may be allowed to infuse in the liquor while it is fermenting, and then removed. WINE (GINGER).—Boil for one hour in six gallons of water twelve pounds of loaf sugar, and half a pound of powdered ginger. Whisk the whites of six good-sized eggs and add to the liquor. When cold, put it into a a barrel with a cupful of yeast, five or six sliced lemons, and a pint of brandy. After it has stood three days to ferment, put in the bung for a week or ten days, then bottle off. WINE (GOOSEBERRY).—To every gallon of water allow six pounds of green gooseberries and three pounds of lump sugar. This wine should be prepared from unripe gooseberries, in order to avoid the flavour which the fruit would give to the wine when in a mature state. Its brisk- ness depends more upon the time of bottling than upon the unripe state of the fruit; for effervescing wine can be made from fruit that is ripe as well as that w'hich is unripe. The fruit should be selected when it has nearly attained its full growth, and consequently before it shows any tendency to ripen. Any bruised or decayed berries and those that are very small should be rejected. The blossom and stalk ends should be removed, and the fruit well bruised in a tub or pan in such quantities as to insure each berry being broken without crushing the seeds. Pour the water (which should be warm) on the fruit. Squeeze and stir it with the hand until all the pulp is removed from the skin and seeds and cover the whole closely for twenty-four hours, after which strain it through a coarse bag and press it with as much force as can be conveniently applied, in order to extract the whole of the juice and liquor the fruit may contain. To every forty or fifty pounds of fruit