152 PERFUME SATCHELS FOR LINEN.—Rose leaves dried in the shade, cloves beat to a powder, and scraped mace. Mix them together and put the composition into bags. PERIWINKLE, Major and Minor.—These trailing evergreens are very suitable for covering banks, &c,, and as they produce an abundance of light blue flowers during the spring they are sometimes used as edgings. They are easily multiplied by cuttings of their creeping roots set in light, moist soil in a somewhat shady position. PERRY.—This drink is obtained from pears in the same manner that cider is made from apples, with the exception that after it has been made a few days it requires to be drawn from its grosser lees. It should be kept in an equable temperature, and is better preserved in bottles than in the cask. PERSIAN MEAT CAKES.—Beat in a mortar some lean muttOD ; season with the juice of onions, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt ; roll the mass into flat cakes ; press them between two dishes for twelve hours, then fry in lard, and serve with fresh butter. PERSPIRATION, Dover’s Powder for Exciting.—Purified nitre, half an ounce ; vitriolated tartar, half an ounce ; opium, one dram ; ipecacuanha, one dram. Reduce the whole to a fine powder. Dose: Half a dram in a copious draught of warm liquor. PERSPIRATION, To Promote a Profuse.—To six grains of compound antimonial powder, add two grains of ipecacuanha and two grains of sugar. Mix, and take at bedtime. Useful in catarrh, fever, and influenza. Or take in gruel, two grains of ipecacuanha powder, ten grains of salt- petre, and half a grain of purified opium. PERSPIRATION, To Remedy Profuse.—Take nutritious and a rather generous diet, with a tonic of citrate of iron and quinine. Locally the skin should be washed with juniper tar soap and sponged from time to time with a lotion containing one part liquid ammonia and three parts water. A foreign physician has found the following a cure in many cases :— Take of powdered sage leaves a large teaspoonful, boil them gently for five minutes in six ounces of water, strain, sweeten to taste, and take a third part three times daily. The following is also recommended:—To a wineglassful of water add two drams of compound spirits of camphor and forty drops of diluted sulphuric acid. Dose: One tablespoonful twice a day. PETTITOES, OR PIGS’ FEET (BOILED).—Put the feet, with the heart and liver, into a stew-pan, cover with water, and boil for ten minutes ; then take out the heart and liver, mince them small, put them back into the stew-pan, and boil till the meat is tender ; thicken with flour and butter, season with pepper and salt, and serve with sippets of toast. Pile the minced meat in the centre of the dish, and lay the feet round. See also Pig’s Feet. PEWTER, To Clean.—Put some fine Calais sand in a strong solution of soda, add a little oil of tartar. Scour the articles with the mix- ture, wipe dry, and polish with a leather dipped in whiting. PHEASANTS (ROAST).—Truss them nicely, spit them, and roast in the same way as a turkey is done. A small bird takes about thirty minutes. Serve with fine gravy flavoured with garlic, and bread sauce. PHEASANTS (STEWED).—Put them into a stew-pan, cover with veal stock, and stew till there is enough liquor left for sauce ; skim, add some parboiled artichoke bottoms, mace, pepper, salt, and a glass of wine; thicken the sauce with a piece of butter rolled in flour and add a