189 cleaned and dried the tooth, bring the composition as quickly as possible to the cavity, press it well in, smooth it off, and moisten it on the surface. It soon acquires great hardness, and resembles the substance of a natural tooth. TEETH, Solution for Beautifying the.—Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling water, and before it is quite cold add a tea- spoonful of tincture of myrrh and three teaspoonfuls of spirits of camphor. Bottle the mixture for use, and on each application add one wineglassful to half a pint of water. TEETH, To Strengthen the.—Horace Walpole says that if a piece of alum half the size of the finger nail be dissolved in the mouth, and the process repeated two or three times a week, it will preserve and fortify the teeth till*1 ‘‘ they are as strong as the pen of Junius.” TEETH, To Preserve.—Rub the teeth and gums two or three times a day with a hard brush dipped in flour of sulphur. This is an excellent preservative, and void of any unpleasant smell. TEETH, To Whiten.—Many remedies have been given to effect this desirable object, but while it has been found that soot is unpleasant to the palate and the frequent use of soap turns the teeth yellow, no dis- advantage is experienced by the constant application of charcoal, which not only extirpates tartarous adhesion and leaves the enamel perfectly white, but prevents decay, and removes from the breath any disagreeable smell. TEETHING POWDERS.—Calomel, twenty-four grains; ses- qui-carbonate of soda, thirty-six grains, and compound chalk powder, one dram. Mix, divide into twelve parts, and give one portion when required. TENCH (FRIED).—Take away the gut, wash the fish, dry on a cloth, dust with flour, lay them before a good fire, then fry in hot dripping. Serve with plain butter and curled parsley. THREADWORMS.—These are mostly found in the lower end of the bowels, and hence arises the constant itching and irritation at the seat. Make an infusion with a handful of quassia chips and a tablespoon- ful of salt in a pint of water, and inject a fourth part every night. For the morning meal boil half a dozen pieces of garlic in a pint of milk, and sweeten it with raw sugar. THROAT, Liniment for Diseases of the.—Castile soap, one ounce; oil of sassafras, one ounce ; spirits of hartshorn, one ounce ; camphor, one ounce; spirits of wine, half an ounce ; laudanum, half an ounce ; cayenne pepper, two drams. Put into a bottle and shake together. THROAT (MALIGNANT SORE), Gargle for.—To one part of white vinegar add three parts of honey of roses, and twenty-four parts of barley-water. Use several times a day. THROAT (SORE), Compress for.—Fold a piece of linen into several thicknesses, dip it in cold water, and apply it to the front part of the throat at bed-time ; place a piece of oil-skin over it, and cover this with a thick flannel wrapper. In all probability the soreness or hoarseness will have disappeared by the morning. THROAT (SORE), Gargle for.—Pour a pint of boiling water upon thirty leaves of common sage ; let the infusion stand for half an hour, then add sufficient vinegar to render it moderately acid, and honey to sweeten according to taste. This gargle should be used in the early stage of the complaint. THROAT (SORE), AND ULCERATED MOUTH.—Mix two scruples of powdered alum with four scruples of treacle, and take half a dram as a dose. See also Currant (Black) Syrup.