io7 pour in a pint of maraschino, and simmer a few minutes longer, when it must be allowed to stand without being disturbed before passing it through the jelly bag. If not clear the first time return it to the bag—it should in the end be like crystal. It will require from ten to twelve ounces of sugar to sweeten this jelly. JELLY (GOOSEBERRY).—This is made like black currant jelly with the exception that no water is put to the gooseberries. Press firmly so as to obtain all the juice. If desired, the skins may be removed by passing the mass through a colander. The remains of the pulp may be made into jam. JELLY (GRAPE).—Dissolve some isinglass, and express the juice from ripe grapes. Mix together equal quantities of the articles, sweeten to taste, and add a glass or two of Madeira wine ; strain, and put into moulds. JELLY, Green Colouring for.—Boil some spinach leaves, with a spoonful or two of water to keep them from burning, express the juice, and boil it in a cupful of water, to take away its strong flavour. JELLY (HARTSHORN).—To two quarts of water add half a pound of hartshorn shavings ; simmer down to half the quantity ; strain, and boil it with the rinds of two lemons and four oranges ; when cool, add the juice of the lemons and oranges, the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth and half a pound of sugar ; boil the jelly three or four times without Stirring, and strain through a jelly bag. JELLY (ICELAND MOSS).—Steep three-quarters of an ounce of Iceland moss in cold water for two hours ; then put it into a saucepan with a quart of water, and simmer it down to half a pint; sweeten with sugar, and add a little lemon juice. This jelly relieves the hard breathing of oersons suffering from consumption, and afso allays the cough and tends to strengthen the system. JELLY (INVALIDS’).—Take an ounce each of sago, pearl barley and hartshorn shavings, and put them into three pints of water; simmer to one-third of the quantity, then strain. When cold it will be a jelly, of which give, dissolved in milk, wine, or broth, in change with other nourishment. JELLY (ISINGLASS).—Boil two ounces of isinglass in half a gallon of water, with one ounce of cloves and the top crust of a loaf. When reduced to half the quantity, sweeten with sugar. This jelly is very strengthening, and mav be taken in wine, milk, or other liquids. JELLY (LEMON).—This is made in the same way as orange jelly, with the exception that being more acid a greater quantity of sugar is required. Each lemon should be smelt before it is used, as one musty one would spoil the flavour. JELLY (MADEIRA WINE).—Tins jelly is made exactly like that of calves’ feet. When the jelly is nearly clarified pour into the stew- pot containing the calves’ feet a bottle or two of Madeira and half a bottle of brandy. This keeps good longer than most jellies and is very nourish- ing. JELLY (MARBLE).—Thoroughly oil a mould, and nearly fill it with different coloured jellies, arranging them in lumps like rock-vvotk, then take some cool but still liquefied crystal jelly, run it into the mould, and allow it to set before turning it out. JELLY (MEAT), for Pies.—Put into a saucepan a good-sized piece of beef, a knuckle of veal, two calves’ feet, a couple of onions, with cloves, a bunch of parsley, three or four shalots, bav leaves, and spices Sweat the whole over a slow fire, then moisten with some good broth ; stew very gently for four hours, keeping it closely covered. When done season