40 CIRCASSIAN CREAM, for the Skin.—Almond emulsion, hall a pint; essence of almonds, one dram ; bi-chloride of mercury, four grains ; spirits of wine, half a pint ; eau de Cologne, one teaspoonful. This forms an excellent cosmetic. CISTERNS, Cement for.—See Cement for Cisterns. CISTERNS (CYLINDRICAL), Rule for the Measurement of. —Take the length, width, and depth in feet ; multiply these together, and the product by 1,865 1 cut off four figures on the right, and the result will be the contents in barrels. Example : Fmd the contents of a cistern six feet in diameter and nine feet deep. Six feet, the length, multiplied by six feet, the breadth, and the product by nine, gives the depth, 324, which, multiplied by 1,865 and four figures cut off, gives sixty barrels and a decimal. In this the diameter is considered as being both length and breadth. The reason of the rule is this: a cylinder one foot in diameter and one foot long, would measure 1,865 ten-thousandths of a barrel. A cylinder nine times as long would contain nine times as much, and six times as wide, six times as much as that. CISTUSES, To Propagate.—There are various species of this plant, some forming handsome shrubs, and bearing large white, yellow, red, or purple flowers, others being of a trailing nature, and suitable for rockwork rather than the shrubbery. They may all be raised from suckers, cuttings, or seeds sown in a hot-bed during spring, and afterwards trans- planted to a warm, well-drained, chalky soil. CITRON PUDDINGS.—Flour, one tablespoonful; sugar, two ounces ; citron-peel, two ounces ; cream, half a pint ; and a little mixed spice. Mix them together with the yolks of three eggs ; put into teacups and bake in a quick oven. CLARET (BRITISH), To Make.—To one quart of cider add the same quantity of port wine and a wineglassful of brandy ; fine down, and bottle off at the end of five weeks. CLARET CUP.—Mix together one quart bottle of claret and two bottles of soda or Seltzer water, three or four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a few lumps of clear ice, a wineglass of Maraschino or Curafoa, and a sprig of green borage. Pass a clean napkin through the handles of the cup before handing round to the guests. CLIANTHUS PUNICEUS. —This handsome, half-creeping shrub, which bears scarlet blossoms, is generally regarded as a green-house plant, and is grown in a mixture of loam and the well-rotted compost of a hot-bed. It may, however, be made to stand our winter in the open by planting it against a wall and protecting the root with a thick covering of litter and matting. It is increased by suckers and cuttings. CLOTH (BLACK), To Remove Stains from.—Boil a couple of handfuls of fig or ivy leaves in half a pint of water, till the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. It may then be allowed to cool and bottled for use. When required apply with a sponge. CLOTH (BLACK), To Renovate.—Mix a tablespoonful of oxgall with a quartern of warm rain-water; sponge the cloth first with the mixture and afterwards with clear rain-water. A weak solution of ammonia is also often recommended, but this has a tendency to turn the cloth brown in a short time. See also Black Reviver. CLOTHES, To Remove Shine from.—Corkscrew and other cloths which quickly acquire a glazed appearance may be restored by being well rubbed with a little turpentine. The smell will soon go off if they are hung in the air. A solution of ammonia or some strong coffee will sometimes have the desired effect.