177 contents of the blue paper in half a tumbler of water, then add the tartaric acid, and drink while the powder is effervescing. SELTZER WATER (ARTIFICIAL).—To each gallon of pure water add one scruple of magnesia alba, six scruples of fossil alkali, and four scruples of common salt, and saturate the whole with fixed air by means of one of the ordinary glass machines. SHALLOTS, To Grow.—Divide the large roots into separate off- sets, and plant them in spring, or in October or November, two inches deep, and at a distance of six or eight inches. The roots will attain full growth in July or August, when they should be taken up, dried, and housed. They will keep good till the following year. SHAMPOO LIQUID.—Dissolve half an ounce of carbonate of ammonia in a pint of water, and add five ounces of Spanish fly and one gallon of old rum. Moisten the hair with a little of the mixture, rub it well in, wash the head afterwards with cold water, and rub it thoroughly dry. This is a capital hair tonic. SHEEP OR LAMB’S TROTTERS.—Stew them for several hours, until the bones will come from them without having to break the skin; stuff them with quenelles or forcemeat, boil them again in their liquor for a quarter of an hour or so, glaze them, and send to table with tomato sauce. SHEEP’S HEAD (STEWED).—Wash the head thoroughly, and put it with the lights into a pot with two quarts of water and a couple of pounds of shin of beef; boil slowly for an hour ; then wash and string two or three handfuls of spinach, and add it to the stew with one or two onions, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. SHEEP’S TONGUES (STEWED).—Put them over the fire in cold water, and boil till sufficiently tender to remove the skin with ease, then take them out, cut them open, and lay them in a stew-pan ; cover with good gravy, and add some finely-chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallot ; flavour with pepper and salt, and work in a piece of butter. When the tongues are tender, lay them in a dish, strain the gravy, and pour it over them. SHEEP, To Cure Rot in.—When sheep are newly bought in, it will preserve their health to give them a tablespoonful of the juice of rue leaves mixed with a little salt. If they show signs of the rot give the mixture every week, or oftener if the case requires. SHEEP, To Destroy Maggots in.—Put into a bottle one quart of water, a tablespoonful of spirits of wine, and as much sublimate of mercury as will lie upon a shilling. Pass a goose-quill through the cork, so that only a little of the mixture will flow out at the time, and shake before using. Drop a little of the liquid upon the spot, and afterwards apply train-oil to the place. SHEEP, Wash for.—Dissolve one pound of powdered arsenic and and nine pounds of soft soap in ten gallons of water. This mixture to be diluted with sufficient water to wash one hundred sheep. SHELLS, To Polish.—Many shells which have a plain appearance on the outside by reason of the epidermis, or skin, with which they are covered, can be made to look very beautiful by steeping them in warm water and then rubbing them with a nail brush. If the epidermis is thick add a little nitric acid to the water before laying them in soak, but great caution must be used in employing this agent, as it not only destroys the adhesion but also the lustre on every part of the shell with which it comes in contact. When the acid has been successfully used on a portion only of the shell, rather than risk deterioration, remove it from the bath and finish off with a file or pumice-stone, and when the whole of the skin has 24