143 whole again ; colour the soup with caramel, and serve either separately or with the meat. A little mushroom ketchup or a glass of port wine imparts a fine flavour to the soup. OXEN, To Prevent them Jumping Fences.—Clip off the eyelashes from the under lids with a pair of scissors, and the disposition to jump will be effectually destroyed. The animal will not attempt a fence until the eyelashes are grown again, when they should be clipped once more. OXFORD CAKES.—Flour, three pounds ; butter, three-quarters of a pound ; salt, one teaspoonful ; cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce ; nut- meg, cloves, and mace, finely powdered, of each a small quantity ; sugar, six ounces ; cream, one pintmountain wine, one glassful; ambergris, one grain ; eggs, four ; rosewater, half a gill ; ale yeast, half a pint. Knead well, stand it near the fire, and when well risen, add half a pound of minced sultanas and a pound and a half of dried currants. Bake in a slow oven. Mix a little rose-water with an egg, with which cover the top of the cake, sift over some caster sugar, and put into the oven to dry. OXFORD PUDDINGS.—Breadcrumbs, four ounces; currants and suet, of each a quarter of a pound ; sugar, a dessert-spoonful; grated lemon peel and allspice, of each a small quantity. Mix the whole with four eggs, make into balls, and fry in batter to a light brown. Serve with sweet sauce, or butter sauce with a glass of rum stirred into it. OXFORD SAUSAGES.—Mince one pound of lean pork, one pound of veal, and one pound of fat pork ; add one pound of breadcrumbs, some thyme, parsley, sage, shalot or garlic, marjoram, nutmeg, pepper, and salt Mix the whole with a yolk of a well-beaten egg and as much of the white as is required to moisten the bread ; then press into skins, or simply roll them into shape and broil over the fire, or fry in fresh butter. OX-GALL (PREPARED).—Boil one ounce of alum in a pint of fresh gall until the former is dissolved ; then boil an ounce of salt in a quart of fresh gall. Keep the two solutions bottled separately for three months ; pour off the clear, mix them together ; let them settle, and decant the pure gall. OX-TAIL SOUP.—Cut a good-sized ox-tail into several pieces and fry brown in butter. Slice three onions and two carrots, and when the ox-tail is removed from the pan fry these brown also. When done tie them in a bag with a bunch of thyme and drop into the soup pot. Lay the pieces of ox-tail in the same. Cut two pounds of lean beef into small slices ; grate over them two whole carrots, and add four quarts of cold water, with pepper and salt. Boil gently from four to six hours, according to the size of the tail. Strain a quarter of an hour before serving it. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour, boil ten minutes longer, put in two lumps of sugar and a glass of port wine, and serve at once. OX TONGUES.—See Beef Tongues. OYSTERS AU CITRON.—Open the oysters, leaving them in their bottom shells, and squeeze over them some fresh lemon juice and a little soluble cayenne. OYSTER FRITTERS.—Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, the same as for pancakes, and slightly season it with nutmeg. Pour it into a pan containing plenty of hot lard, drop in the oysters, after bearding them, and fry them a delicate brown. Serve in a dish on a folded napkin. OYSTER PATTIES.—Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill each with a piece of bread, put on the crust, and bake. Cut up the oysters and simmer them for a few minutes in some of their liquor ; with a little cream, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; then remove the top crust of the patties, take out the bread, fill with the simmered oysters, place the crust on again, and serve.