116 Boots, harness, &c., will last double the length of time if treated in this manner. LEATHER, To Renovate.—Pulverize one ounce of best gum- acacia, then add to it about a tablespoonful of boiling water, and when it is dissolved mix with it the white of an egg, and thoroughly beat up both together ; then add half a pint of linseed oil, two ounces of spirits of wine, half an ounce of hydrochloric acid, half an ounce of sesquichloride of antimony, and three ounces of vinegar. Apply to the leather with a piece of linen or cotton rag. LEATHER (UNCOLOURED), To Clean. — Dissolve oxalic acid in warm water, and apply with a sponge. LEECHES, To Apply.—When there is a difficulty in getting leeches to bite, roll them in a little stout, or moisten the surface of the part desired to be drawn with milk, or sugar and water. They should be applied by means of a leech-glass or a large quill. LEECHES, To Stop Bleeding from.—Cover the bite with a rag dipped in olive oil or in a strong solution of alum ; or sponge the part and apply .a little spermaceti thereto. If these methods fail apply pressure with the fingers, and afterwards lay over the bite a piece of lint soaked in extract of lead. LEECHES, To Take off.—When the leeches have drawn suffi- ciently, and it is desirable to remove them, never tear them off, but moisten the finger, dip it in salt, and touch them with it. They will immediately relax their hold. LEECHES, To Treat.—After removing leeches from the flesh place them in water containing one-sixteenth per centum of salt ; then put them, one by one, in warm water, and press them gently until cleansed ; throw them into clean, cold water, and renew it every twenty-four hours. They may thus be preserved for future use. LEEKS, To Grow.—These most useful culinary plants are raised from seed sown in March or April, for main crops, and transplanted into well-manured soil in June or July, in rows eight inches asunder and six inches from each other in the row, inserting most of the shank or neck part into the ground. LEG-SORES (RUNNING), To Heal.—Bathe them with brandy, and apply elder-leaf poultices, changing these twice a day. The sores will soon dry up under this treatment. LEMONADE (BOTTLED).—Put half a pound of loaf sugar into a quart of water and boil it over a slow fire, add four ounces of tartaric acid and two drams of acetic acid ; let it grow cold, then add two pennyworth of essence of lemon. Put one-sixth of the above into each bottle, fill with water, and add thirty grains of carbonate of soda. Cork it at once. It will be fit for use on the following day. LEMONADE (PORTABLE), How to Make.—Rasp with half a pound of sugar the rinds of two fine lemons ; reduce the sugar to a powder, and pour on to it the strained juice of the fruit; put the whole into a jar and press it well down. When required, dissolve a tablespoon- ful in a glass of water. If too sweet add a very small quantity of citric acid. LEMONADE POWDERS.—Loaf sugar, one pound ; carbonate of soda, two ounces ; oil of lemon, six drops. Pound, and mix together. Divide the mixture into thirty-two equal portions, and wrap them in white paper. Then take two ounces of tartaric acid, divide into thirty-two portions, and wrap in blue paper. Dissolve one of each kind in half a tumbler of water, mix the two solutions together, and drink while effer- vescing.