154 the head neatly and skewer it together firmly; next mix some powdered sage leaves with pepper and salt, and sprinkle the mixture over it. Hang it on a spit and roast it before a clear fire for half an hour, basting it well with seasoning. Serve on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured over it, and accompanied with apple sauce. PIG (SUCKING), To Carve a.—Remove the shoulders and legs by laying the knife under them, cutting through the flesh, and lifting them out; these maybe served whole or divided, according to the number sitting down to dine ; then divide the ribs. These latter being considered the choicest parts should be served to the ladies. PIG (SUCKING), To Roast a,—Scald the pig, and stuff it with bread crumbs, sago, pepper, and salt. Secure the legs back with a skewer ; lay it in front of a brisk fire till dry, then rub it all over with butter, dredge it with flour, and roast. When done, scrape off the flour, rub it over with a greasy cloth, garnish with lemons, and serve with butter sauce. PIGEON PIE.—Cut the pigeons open and rub them inside and out with pepper and salt. Make a stuffing of the livers, parsley, and seasoning, and lay a portion inside each bird ; then put a beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish, lay the birds on top, and place a hard-boiled egg between every couple, and a slice of ham on each pigeon ; pour a cup of water into the dish ; cover with a nice crust, and leave a couple of the feet sticking out, to indicate what the pie consists of. PIGEONS (BOILED).—Stuff them with bread crumbs, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and parsley, and boil for a quarter of an hour in mutton broth. Serve with rice boiled in milk and mixed with the yolks of a couple of eggs, well beaten. PIGEONS (BROILED).—Split them down the back, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and broil them a nice colour. Serve with stewed mushrooms in melted butter. PIGEONS (ROAST).—Stuff with parsley, bread crumbs, pepper and salt, and a little butter ; tie them tightly at the neck so that the stuffing cannot escape, hang before the fire, and baste very frequently with hot butter. Serve with the gravy from the dish. PIGEONS (STEWED).—Crop, draw, and wash the birds, and stew them in a rich brown gravy, highly seasoned with spice, with fresh mushrooms and a little ketchup. Serve with the gravy, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and two or three spoonfuls of cream. PIKE (BAKED) .—Put into a saucepan a few herbs, bread crumbs, oysters, two or three anchovies, the yolks of three or four eggs, half a pint of cream, mace, pepper, and salt; stir till it thickens; then cut a hole in the fish, as near the throat as possible, put in the stuffing, and sew it up. Put little dabs of butter all over the fish, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve with sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. PIKE (ROAST).—Scale and gut a large pike, and stuff it with bread crumbs, beef suet, thyme, savory, parsley, nutmeg, mace, and salt, mixed with raw eggs. Lard the fish with eel and bacon, put two laths on each side of the pike, and hang it before the fire to roast. Baste with butter beaten up with two or three anchovies. Garnish with lemon, and serve with butter. PIKE, To Carve.—Split up the back and belly, and cut each slice gently downwards. By this means fewer bones will be served. PILES (EXTERNAL), To Relieve.—Apply extract of lead to the part, and keep the bowels open gently with occasional doses of lenitive electuary. PILES (INTERNAL), Cure for.—To one ounce of Ethiop’s mineral add four ounces of treacle. One teaspoonful three times a day—