38 CHINESE WHITE.—Take some finely-ground zinc white, put it on a marble slab, mix it into a cream of the required consistence by the addition of gum-tragacanth, grinding it with a glass muller. For sufficient to fill an ordinary sized Chinese white bottle, add to above ten drops of thick gum-arabic mucilage and six drops of pure glycerine ; grind well together and fill the bottle by aid of the palette knife. CHIVES, To Cultivate.—These small herbs of the onion tribe, so useful for salads and culinary purposes, are raised by parting the roots, in the spring or autumn, detaching several small roots together in each slip, and planting them six to eight inches apart. CHOCOLATE, To Prepare.—Dissolve an ounce of Florence chocolate in a small quantity of hot water, and pour it into a chocolate-pot, or saucepan, with a large cupful of milk ; stir it gently, and when it boils, remove it a little and let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then mill it again to make it frothy, and serve. CHOCOLATE, To Test.—When genuine it is of a clear reddish- brown colour, with a smooth, shiny surface, compact and close-grained where broken, and cool to the tongue. If the gloss comes off when touched by the finger, it breaks crumbly, and is rough in the mouth, it is adulterated. CHOLERA, To Treat.—Aromatic confection, two drams ; prepared chalk, two drams ; sal volatile, two drams ; tincture of opium, one dram ; tincture of ginger, four drams ; tincture of kino, four drams ; cinnamon water, six ounces. A tablespoonful to be taken every two hours until relaxation ceases. Another remedy:—Bicarbonate of soda, eight grains ; tincture of opium, eight grains ; tincture of ginger, two drops ; tincture of catechu, one dram ; aromatic confection, ten grains ; chalk mixture, two ounces. If there is much pain, add from three to five drops of creosote to the chalk mixture. A wineglassful to be taken when necessary. Dr. Chapman recommends the application of ice to the spine by means of elongated bags. CHRISTMAS PUDDING, A Good.—Mix in a large pan one pound of flour, one pound of bread crumbs, two pounds of suet, one pound of fine sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, two teaspoonfuls of ground mixed spice, two ounces of ground bitter almonds, the red part of a large carrot scraped, two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound of mixed candied peel, and the rinds of one lemon and one orange cut small. Beat up in a basin ten eggs, mix them with half a pint or a pint of milk, according to the size of the eggs ; add to the dry ingredients, and thoroughly well mix ; add the juice of a lemon and of an orange strained, and a teaspoonful of essence of ratafia. Mix again. Great importance is attached to the mixing. Put into two buttered basins, and cover with flour and water rolled out. Tie down with a stout cloth, and boil for fifteen hours each. CHRYSANTHEMUMS AND POM PONES.—These, the last showy flowers of the year, require a light rich soil and plenty of mois- ture. They are easily propagated either by root-division in early spring, by cuttings in April and May, or by layers in July and August; the plants grown by layers will bear transplanting and will flower the same season. They may be kept in a dwarfed state by constantly shifting them into pots a size larger. CHUB (BROILED).—First scald the fish, then cut off the fins and tail, wash it thoroughly and slit it down the middle ; cut across the back in two or three places, and broil it over a wood fire, basting it constantly v/ith salt butter and finely shred thyme.