PEAS, To Cultivate.—For an early crop a sowing of Early Warwicks, Emperors, or Ringleaders may be made in November. The next sowing should be made early in February, and from that time succes- sive sowings may be made every three weeks of Marrowfats or any other varieties till the end of June. The wrinkled peas should be sown during April and May. For very late crops sow the early varieties. They are all planted in drills from two feet and a half to three feet and a half asunder, according to their growth. Those sown from November to February will be ready to gather in May or June ; those planted in March or April may be gathered in June and July ; and those planted in April or May will be ready in August and September. PENCIL DRAWINGS, To Fix.—Lay the drawing on its face upon a sheet of white paper, and brush the back with a solution made by dissolving pale rosin in spirits of wine. In a few minutes it will penetrate through the paper, and as the spirit evaporates the rosin will be deposited as a varnish on the drawing. By this method the paper does not cockle, and the pencilling is in no way injured. This process will not, however, answer for drawings on card, as the solution cannot properly make its way through. In this case, as in drawings upon very thick paper, a weak solution of isinglass may be placed in a shallow dish and the drawing be passed through it, so as to wet every part without touching it with a brush. PEPPERMINT DROPS.—Crush and sift four ounces of white sugar, add the whites of two eggs, and beat it till the whole is perfectly smooth, then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint ; beat it up again, let it fall in drops upon a slab, and dry them at a distance from the fire. PEPPERMINT WATER.—Pour three quarts of boiling water into a jug and let it remain until lukewarm ; then add three pennyworth of oil of peppermint, sweeten to taste, keep stirring till quite cold, and pour into bottles for use. PEPPER (WHITE), To Prepare.—Steep whole black pepper in sea water and expose it to the heat of the sun for several days till the rind or outer bark loosens, then dry the white fruit and blow away the rind like chaff. PERCH (BOILED).—Put into a stew-pan a good quantity of parsley, a few carrots and two or three green onions cut into fillets, and a few pepper-corns tied in a muslin bag. Cover with water and boil for half an hour ; then remove the pepper-corns, and having emptied and washed the fish, put it into the stew-pan and boil quickly for about ten minutes. The red fins should be cut from their natural position and stuck in the middle of the fish. Serve in a deep dish, with the liquor poured over the fish ; or it may be sent to table with melted butter and soy, or with Dutch ScLUCC* PERCH (FRIED).—Remove the gut and wash them in clear water, wipe dry with a cloth, dust them with flour, and fry in hot fat. Serve with butter and parsley. PERFUME, A Pleasant.—To half a pint of spirits of wine, add a quarter of an ounce of camphor, three drams of oil of bergamot, three drams of oil of lavender, one dram of ambergris, and one dram of civet. Cork, shake frequently for ten days, then filter and pour into small bottles. PERFUME SATCHELS FOR CLOTHES.—Take of cloves, caraway seeds, nutmegs, mace, cinnamon, and Tonquin beans, of each one ounce, and add as much Florentine orris-root as will equal the other ingredients put together. Grind the whole to a powder and put into small bags. This will not only make a pleasant perfume, but will keep away moths.