59 EGGS (WHITES OF), To Beat.—If a pinch of salt is put with the white of an egg. the temperature of the albumen will immediately fall, and the cold egg will froth rapidly. ELDER-FLOWER OINTMENT.—Melt in an earthen vessel one pound of lard and a quarter of a pound of mutton suet with a table- spoonful of water; stir together and add a pint of elder-flower water. Agitate for an hour and set it aside ; the next day gently pour off the water, re-melt the ointment, and add seven drops of benzoic acid, one drop each of otto of roses, essence of bergamot, and oil of rosemary; a^ain agitate, let it settle for a few minutes, then pour off the clear into pots. °ELDER-FLOWER WATER.—Half fill a vessel with the flowers when fresh plucked from the tree, and fill the vessel up with boiling water. When cold, strain off. A little only should be made at a time, as it will not keep long. EMBROCATION, A Useful.—Mix together four ounces of soap liniment, one ounce of spirits of camphor, half an ounce of oil of thyme, and two drams of tincture of opium. Rub the mixture well into the skin. This embrocation is recommended for rheumatic gout, lumbago, and tooth-ache. EMETICS.—A teaspoonful of mustard taken in half a tumbler of rather hot water is an old and safe remedy for relieving the stomach. A more powerful one, which scarcely ever fails, is made by stirring thirty grains of zinc sulphate into half a glass of warm water. This, however, should only be given to adults. EMETIC (LOBELIA).—Pour a pint of boiling water on to an ounce of lobelia powder, let it stand till cold. Dose : A fluid ounce every half hour till sickness ensues. ENAMEL PAINT.—Grind up the required colour on a stone with a sufficient amount of turpentine, let the spirit evaporate, then regriud the colour with copal varnish, when it will be ready for use. ENDIVE, To Cook.—Wash and clean the heads and search in the heart for worms ; remove all the green part of the leaves, wash the vegetables again in two or three waters, and blanch them to take off the bitter taste. Then throw them into cold water for ten minutes, after which squeeze them dry and chop them very fine. Put them into a saucepan, pour upon them enough veal gravy to cover them, add a little salt and a small piece of sugar, and boil till fender. Serve either for entremets under poached eggs, or for entries, such as minced mutton, fillets of fowl, sweet- breads, &c. It should never be too strongly seasoned. This vegetable is very strengthening and easy of digestion. ENDIVE, To Grow.—For an early crop sow the seed in April or May ; at the same time it must be observed that these early sowings are aot to be depended upon for a principal crop, as the plants are apt to run to seed. For a full crop, sow about the end of July or the beginning of August, and when the plants are large enough set them at a distance of a foot one from the other, and water well till they are established. When the endive is full grown, tie it up so that it may become blanched. The green curled variety stands the winter best. ENEMA, A Laxative.—Dissolve an ounce and a half of Epsom salts in half a pint of gruel or beef tea, and add an ounce of olive oil. Inject as quickly as possible. ENEMA, A Strengthening.—Thicken half a pint of strong beef- tea with arrowroot or isinglass. ENEMA for Colic or Spasms.—Mix two ounces of starch with three grains of opium, reduce to a fine powdet, then add a wineglassful of warm water.