i73 SAUCE (CREAM), for Fish.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, a little flour, some cream, and a pinch of salt ; stir it over the fire until it nearly boils. SAUCE (CURRANT), for Roast Sucking Pig.—Take a pint of water, put in two ounces of currants, a good piece of bread crumb, a blade of mace, and a little whole pepper ; the spice should be tied up in a piece of muslin ; boil together for about six minutes, and then pour off the water, take out the spice, and beat up the bread with a good piece of butter and a little cream ; add a glass of wine, and sweeten with loaf sugar. Stir all together and serve hot. SAUCE D’ATTELETS.—Take a spoonful of fine herbs, such as parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, and fry them lightly in a little butter, add a little flour, and moisten with broth or bechamel. Reduce over a good fire, without skimming off the fat; season with pepper, salt, and a little mixed spice, and thicken with the yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs. This sauce is used for attelets of palates of beef, sweetbreads, fillets of rabbits, oysters, &c., and is poured over whatever it is intended for. SAUCE (DUTCH).—Put into a saucepan a sliced onion, some scraped horseradish, a couple of anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of elder vinegar, and some thin stock ; boil for ten minutes, strain through a sieve, add a couple of well-beaten eggs, and place over the fire till it boils. SAUCE (EGG).—Take some hard-boiled eggs, chop them up small, and mix them with some melted butter. A little lemon juice squeezed in just before it is served is an improvement. Send to table very hot. SAUCE (FENNEL).—Slice up three or four onions, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of good gravy and two cloves of garlic ; simmer for one hour, let it get cold, then remove the fat and pass the sauce through a sieve. Add chopped parsley, fennel, pepper, and salt, and boil all together for a minute or two. SAUCE FOR SWEET BOILED PUDDINGS.—Take half a pint of new milk, a thin strip of fresh lemon rind, a little cinnamon, half an inch of vanilla bean, and two ounces of sugar. Boil gently together until the milk is flavoured ; then strain, and pour it slowly to the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, smoothly mixed with half a teaspoonful of flour, a few grains of salt, and a tablespoonful of milk ; stir very quickly as the milk is added. Put the whole into the saucepan, and stir quickly until it thickens and presents the appearance of cream. It must not be placed upon the fire, only held over it while this is done. SAUCE (GARLIC).—This is most readily made by adding garlic vinegar to plain melted butter. Or it may be made by pounding garlic with butter, rubbing it through a fine hair sieve, and stirring it into the melted butter. SAUCE (HAM), for Flavouring Gravies.—Chop, and pound very fine, the lean of ham, add a small quantity of gravy, put it in a saucepan over a slow fire, and stir it for some time, then put in some sweet herbs, pepper, and veal gravy ; simmer till it has acquired the flavour of the herbs, and strain off for use. SAUCE (HERB).—Work a little butter into a spoonful or two of flour, melt it in a saucepan, then add some chopped parsley, borage, chervil, cress, scallions, and tarragon ; boil for fifteen minutes, and add a little good stock. Serve very hot. SAUCE (HORSERADISH).—Grate a small horseradish, and mix with it double its quantity of cream and a little salt ; stir quickly, and gradually add a small quantity of vinegar, a little sherry wine, or walnut