7 into boiling water or boiling milk, and add salt, sugar, and lemon-juice to taste. ARROWROOT PUDDING (BAKED).—Mix two teacupfuls of arrowroot with half a pint of cold milk, and stir it into half a pint of boiling milk. Let stand till cold, then add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add, and bake in a buttered dish. Time, about one hour. ARROWROOT, To Detect Adulteration in.—If upon rubbing arrowroot through the hands a slippery and glaze-like feeling is detected, it may be taken for granted that the farinaceous substance is adulterated with starch. ARSENIC, To Test the Presence of.—-Add a very small proportion of carbonate of potash to the suspected liquor ; let it stand for a few minutes, then drop in a small quantity of sulphate of copper ; if arsenic be present a bright yellowish green precipitate will be immediately produced. A stream of sulphurated hydrogen gas, passed through the liquor con- taining arsenic, produces a golden yellow precipitate. ARTICHOKES (BOILED).—Take four or five artichokes, cut all the points of the leaves, and trim the bottoms very neatly, rub the bottoms with the juice of a lemon to prevent them turning black, boil them about three-quarters of an hour, then empty the middles, and serve with melted butter. If there are any old ones among them they will require longer boiling. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, To Cook.—Leave on the most tender of the leaves so that the inside of the artichokes may be kept more clean. Boil them in salt and water, and, when sufficiently done to allow it, remove the leaves and empty the choke without breaking the bottoms ; then stew them in weak gravy for half an hour or so, and serve with forcemeat in each. ARTICHOKES (FRIED).—Well wash and drain the artichokes, cut them into quarters, rub them with lemon, and throw them into an earthen pan with some pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Next take four spoonfuls of flour, three entire eggs, and a teaspoonful of olive oil, and stir the whole with a wooden spoon till the leaves are well imbued. Then throw them, piece by piece, into some melted dripping, and fry them a fine brown colour, using a skewer to prevent them sticking together. When done crisp, lay them on a towel to drain, and send to table with fried crisp green parsley. They should be trimmed so as to make the leaves open. ARTICHOKES, General Treatment of.—There are two kinds of artichokes, the globe and the oval ; the former are preferable, as the heads are larger and the eatable parts thicker and more fleshy. Each kind is propagated by planting the young shoots during April in an open situation in good ground with which is incorporated a quantity of rotten dung, placing them in rows four or five feet asunder and two feet distant between each row, and giving them at once a plentiful supply of water. Any straggling parts of the top and roots should be trimmed previous to planting. If a plantation is made thus every spring, a succession of fruit may be obtained for four or five months in the year, as the old stocks produce heads from June to August, and the young ones from August to October. A small crop, such as lettuce or spinach, may be grown between the rows in the first year. Artichokes may be brought to a large head by cutting oft the side suckers when they are the size of an egg. They are gathered for the table when the scales of the head open anxi before the flowers appear in the centre. After gathering the heads, break down the stems close to the ground, so as to encourage a bottom growth.—See also Jerusalem Artichokes.