io8 to taste, and clarify by beating into it the whites of eggs. It will keep for some time if put into ice. JELLY (ORANGE).—Peel half a dozen oranges, throw the peel into a little water and stand it on the stove, but do not let it boil. Squeeze the juice of the oranges through a sieve into an earthen pan, then pour the infusion of the peel through the sieve. Put a pound of sugar in a pan ; pour a drop of the white of an egg into a pint of water, whip it till it gets white, and add it to the sugar. Set it over the fire, and when a froth rises put in a little more water; skim frequently, and when it bubbles pour in the juice of the fruit; stir together, without allowing it to boil; skim well, pass through a jelly bag, and add isinglass. This jelly must not be made too firm. A little brandy is sometimes added, but it is questionable whether it is improved thereby. JELLY (PEAR).—Boil some French pears to a pulp, then add their weight in sugar, and boil again for twenty minutes, or tiil it is thick enough ; put into jars, and cover in the usual manner. JELLY (RASPBERRY).—Put the fruit into a pan with some sugar, stir them together, and let them lay for an hour, then add a little water ; put the whole into a jelly bag, and mix cold isinglass with the juice. Care must be taken not to bruise the seeds of the fruit, as this would detract from the clearness of the jelly. JELLY, Red Colouring for.—Take one scruple of finely-powdered cochineal and two drams of cream of tartar, and boil them very slowly for thirty minutes in half a pint of water. JELLY (RED CURRANT), To Make.—When the currants are fully ripe pick them on a fine dry day, and put them in a preserving-pan over a slow fire. As the juice comes away, pour it off, or it will waste. When all the juice has been gathered, strain through flannel, to take away the thickness ; then to every pint of juice put a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, broken small. Put the whole in a preserving-pan over a brisk fire and boil for about ten minutes, removing the scum as it rises ; then drop a small quantity on a cold plate; if it jellies it is done, if not boil it till it does. Pour it into pots or glasses, and let it stand for a couple of days, then put paper dipped in brandy on the top of the jelly, and tie skins over the tops of the pots. Keep in a dry place. JELLY (STRAWBERRY).—Put the fruit in a cloth little by little and express the juice, strain it clear, weigh, and stir in an equal weight of powdered sugar, put the whole in a preserving-pan near the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put the pan over the fire and stir the jelly fre- quently till it boils, clear it carefully from scum, and let it boil briskly for twenty-five minutes. If only a small portion of jelly is required, say two or three pounds, a much less time will suffice. JELLY, White Colouring for.—There is nothing, perhaps, which will give greater satisfaction to the housewife for this purpose than the judicious use of cream. JELLY (WHITE CURRANT).—Strip the fruit from the stalks, put it into a preserving-pan, and when it boils run it quickly through a sieve. To each pint of juice add a pound of double-refined sugar, and let it boil twenty minutes, carefully removing the scum, then pass it through a lawn sieve. JELLY, Yellow Colouring for.—Put a little saffron into a teacup, pour some boiling water upon it, and stand it to draw. The yolks of eggs are sometimes used for the same purpose, but these latter can only be used for opaque jellies. See also LEMON SPONGE.