33 CEMENT FOR FASTENING LABELS ON TIN BOXES. -Mucilage of tragacanth, ten parts ; honey, ten parts, and dry wheaten flour, one part CEMENT FOR GLASS OR EARTHENWARE.—Mix together in an iron saucepan two parts of gum shellac and one part of Venice turpentine. When sufficiently cool form into sticks, which must be melted before a gentle fire when wanted for use. Great caution must be used in the preparation of this cement, as turpentine is very inflammable. Or, dissolve half an ounce of gum acacia in a wineglass of boiling water ; add sufficient plaster of Paris to make a thick paste, and apply it with a brush to the fractured parts. The white of egg mixed with lime also forms a strong cement for this purpose.—.Si?* also Glass, To Unite Neatly. CEMENT FOR LEATHER AND CLOTH.—Gutta-percha, one pound ; indiarubber, a quarter of a pound ; pitch, two ounces ; bulled oil, two ounces ; shellac, one ounce. Melt together and use while hot. CEMENT FOR MARBLE.—Melt together some shellac and sulphur; hold the fractured parts to the fire till quite hot, then apply the mixture. CEMENT (JAPANESE) ; or, Transparent Glue.—Mix to a thick paste, with cold water, some powdered rice flour ; then pour upon it sufficient boiling water to reduce it to the required consistence, stirring it incessantly the while ; pour it into a saucepan, and boil for one minute. This forms a strong and almost colourless cement. CEMENT (MASTIC), for Repairing Stonework.—Sifted sharp sand, twenty parts ; litharge, two parts ; freshly burned and slaked lime, one part. Mix sufficient linseed oil to form a putty. This cement, which is also used for inner walls, becomes quite hard in a few hours. CEMENT (PROFESSOR DAVY’S), for Drain Pipes, Gutters, &c.—Melt together two parts of common pitch, and one part of gutta- percha. Heat the pipes with a hot iron, and pour the cement upon the leaky places. This cement may be dried and preserved for use, and is equally applicable to glass, ivory, leather, porcelain, and wood. CEMENT (SOFT), for Covering Corks.—Melt together equal quantities of yellow wax and rosin, and stir gradually into them some dry Venetian red in powder. A very soft wax may be made by substituting common turpentine in the place of th§ rosin. CEMENT TO STOP LEAKAGES IN IRON PIPES.— Take sixteen parts of wrought-iron filings, three parts of powdered sal ammoniac, and two parts flowers of sulphur ; mix well and keep in a closely stoppered vessel in the dry. When required for use, take one part of the mixture and add to it twelve parts of iron filings ; mix with as much water as will bring it to the consistence of a paste, previously adding to the water a few drops of sulphuric acid. CEMENT TO UNITE CARD TO TIN.—Boil one ounce of borax and two ounces of powdered shellac in fifteen ounces of water tili the lac is entirely dissolved. CEMENT TO UNITE GLASS TO IRON.—Mix into a paste with linseed oil equal parts of litharge, fine dry white sand, and plaster of Paris, with one-third part of powdered rosin. It should be allowed to remain mixed for three or four hours before application, but must be used before the expiration of twelve hours. This cement is used for aqua- riums, and is in consequence generally known by the name of Aquarium Cement. CEMENT TO UNITE INDIARUBBER WITH IRON. —Dissolve thirty grains of indiarubber in four grains of chloroform then 6