i55 the first thing in the morning, an hour before dinner, and the last thing at night; to be well mixed each time it is taken. PILES, Ointment for the.—Hog’s lard, four ounces; powdered galls, one ounce ; laudanum, half an ounce ; and spirits of camphor, two drams. Mix, and apply at bed-time. PINKS, To Cultivate.—See Carnations. PIPER.—This fish is not nearly so popular as it deserves to be, for it is superior to most others. It is best when red, and should be used very fresh. It may be sent to table either baked or filleted in precisely the same way as soles or whiting, accompanied with white, sharp sauce or with tnaitre d'hdtel. PIPER (BAKED).—Empty and clean the fish, then make a good stuffing in the following manner:—Two handfuls of bread crumbs, the same quantity of beef suet well chopped, parsley, and a little thyme chopped very fine, two whole eggs, a little cream, a small bit of butter, salt, cayenne pepper, and a very little mixed spice ; mix well and put it into the belly of the fish, sew it up, and fasten the tail of the fish to the mouth with a skewer ; rub the fish all over with a brush dipped in egg ; sprinkle with salt and bread crumbs, and baste with clarified butter ; put it into a very hot oven, in order to give it a good colour. When done, drain, and serve with Dutch sauce. PLAICE OR FLOUNDERS (FRIED).—Sprinkle the plaice or flounders with salt, let them lie for twenty-four hours, then wash and wipe them dry. Brush them over with egg, dip them in bread crumbs ; make some lard boiling hot in a frying-pan, and stir in two tablespoonful3 of vinegar ; lay the fish in, and fry them a nice brown colour, drain them on a cloth, and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Send to table with anchovy sauce. Time, five minutes. PLANTS (FROZEN), To Revive.—Should plants accidentally become frozen in the green-house, render the house as dark as possible, then thaw them with cold water. This will save many of the plants which would die if watered in the light. PLANTS, To Preserve Specimens of.—Spread the specimens out on sheets of blotting paper, carefully unfolding the flowers and leaves so that their beauty may be maintained. Arrange the sheets containing the plants one above the other, and place them in a tray or pan, covering them with a layer of dry sand about half an inch thick. Stand the tray before a good fire for three or four hours, and when the specimens are perfectly dry gum them on to cardboard and label them with all particulars. PLASTER (ADHESIVE).—Melt together half a pound of yellow rosin and a quarter of a pound of Burgandy pitch ; then spread it upon linen. Used to secure other dressings. PLASTER (ANODYNE).—Lead plaster, one pound; melt in a pipkin at a low heat; add coarsely powdered gum, three ounces ; mix, and then add of powdered opium, half an ounce, and water, eight fluid ounces. Boil to a proper consistence, then spread it on thin leather. PLASTER (BLISTERING).—Melt two ounces of yellow wax, and while it is warm add to it six ounces of Venice turpentine, three ounces of finely powdered Spanish flies, and one ounce of mustard ; stir till cold. PLASTER CASTS, To Bronze.—Give the figure a coating of size varnish, let it stand till nearly dry, then put some metallic bronze powder into a muslin bag, dust it over the surface, dab it with a linen wad, and when perfectly dry give a coating of oak varnish. PLASTER CASTS, To Harden.—Stearine, two parts; Venetian soap, two parts ; pearlash, one part; and a solution of caustic potash,