BEER (HERB).—Put intotwo gallons of water two large handfuls of nettles, a dozen roots of dandelion (with leaves), and one ounce ot bruised root ginger. Boil for one hour, then strain through a sieve into a vessel. While hot, add a pound and a half of sugar, and let it stand till lukewarm. Meanwhile dissolve in sweetened lukewarm water two ounces of yeast, which, when risen, mix with the beer. On the following day skim the barm off the beer, then bottle, cork, and make secure with twine. It will be ready for use in about two days. BEER(SOUR),To Restore.—The addition of oyster-shells calcined to whiteness, or a little fine chalk, or whiting will correct the acidity of sour beer, and make it brisk and sparkling , but it will not keep long after such additions. BEER (SPRUCE).—See Spruce Beer. BEER, To Improve Weak.— Boil to a syrupequal parts of extract of quassia, extract of liquorice, extract of cocculus indicus, and sulphate of iron. The above preparation imparts bitterness to the liquor and gives it the appearance of a strong drink. BEES’ HIVES, To Obtain the Honey from.—Place a table about a yard in front of the hive, cover it with a thick cloth, and set in the center a small plate containing the sixth part of an ounce of chloroform, or rather more for a very large hive. Cover the plate with wire gauze, to prevent the bees coming in immediate contact with the drug ; then, with a steady hand, quickly lift the hive from its usual situation and set it over the plate. Leave the hive closely covered with cloths for about twenty minutes, and while the bees are stupefied remove the honey and replace the hive in its original position, leaving the bees to return to their domicile as they recover. This operation is best performed very early in the morning, before the bees are astir. BEES’ STINGS.—As the bee when it stings always leaves its weapon behind, it is necessary first of all to extract it from the flesh, which may readily be done with a fine needle or a pair of small tweezers, then anoint the wound with a mixture of equal parts of hartshorn and olive oil. Or a little alkaline lotion or even common whiting will take away the pain. To a person in good health stings from these insects are not dangerous, except when they occur in the mouth, throat, or on the eyelid. It is never advisable to knock a bee off when it settles upon one ; if left entirely alone it will generally fly away of its own accord without inflicting any damage. One of the best-known remedies for a sting in the mouth or throat is to chew a strong onion and, if necessary, swallow the juice. BEET-ROOT (PICKLED).—Boil the roots gently until they are nearly done, or from one hour and a half to two hours ; drain them, and, when partly cool, peel and cut in slices half an inch thick ; then put them into a pickle composed of one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of allspice, half an ounce each of pounded ginger, sliced horseradish, and salt, and a quart of strong vinegar. One dram of cayenne pepper or two capsicums are sometimes added to each quart of vinegar. BEET, To Preserve during Winter.—Make a bed of dry sand two inches deep, lay the roots thereon close together, and with the crowns out- wards and inwards alternately ; cover with a couple of inches of sand; put more roots on the top of this, as before, then another layer of sand, and so on, covering the whole thickly with dry straw. BEET, To Grow.—The red beet is grown for its large root, which is used for pickling, while the white and green are cultivated for their leaves, to be used for soups, &c. The different sorts may be raised from seeds sown broadcast in the open ground during February or March, and