io9 JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.—These will thrive in almost any soil, and multiply so exceedingly that it is not easy to clear the ground of them again, for the least bit of root will grow. The usual method of propagating them is by means of sets or cuttings of the roots, in the same manner as the potato is multiplied. Plant them in rows a yard asunder, four or five inches deep, and eighteen inches or two feet distance in the rows. They are in perfection in the autumn and throughout the winter, and are good and wholesome boiled and eaten with butter, &c. They bear no resemblance to the artichoke proper, but resemble the potato in growth, their tubers being, however, more irregular in appearance. JET FOR BOOTS AND HARNESS.—Dissolve three sticks of black sealing-wax in half a pint of spirits of wine. Shake well together and apply with a sponge. Keep the jet well corked. JEWELLERY, To Keep it from Tarnishing.—Gold and silver ornaments may be preserved from tarnishing after they have been polished by packing them in boxwood sawdust and excluding the light and air. JOHN DORY, To Carve.—Strike the fish-slice along the backbone, and serve square slices from the thick part A very dainty morsel may be found on the cheek of the fish. JOHN DORY, To Cook.—Although the John Dory is such a hideous-looking fish, its flesh is very delicate. Put the fish into boiling water with slices of lemon over it, and season with salt. Do not let it boil too fast. When done put parsley round it, particularly in the opening of the head, with some finely-scraped horseradish. Serve with lobster sauce. It may also be broiled and sent to table with caper or anchovy sauce. JONQUIL PERFUME.—Mix essence of lemon and essence of bergamot, of each eight parts ; oil of lavender, three parts ; oil of caraway, two parts ; oil of sassafras, one part; and oil of orange, one part. JULEP (EGG), For the Hair.—Beat up the yolk of an egg with half a pint of tepid rain-water, add a little borax in powder, and a tea- spoonful of spirit of camphor. Use instead of soap. JULEP, For Cleansing the Hair.—Mix soft soap with rain-water, add a little borax in powder, and a small quantity of spirit of camphor and oil. JUMBLES, To Make.—Mix one pound of flour and one pound of sugar into a light paste with the whites of eggs well beaten ; add half a pound of butter, one pound of ground almonds, and half a pint of milk. Knead the whole together, form it into thin cakes, and bake in a slow oven. JUNKET (DEVONSHIRE).—Pour some warm milk into a basin, turn it with a little rennet, and add some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without breaking the curd. KALE (STEWED).—Trim and wash sea-kale, tie it in bundles, and put it into boiling water with a handful of salt ; boil for ten or twelve minutes, drain it dry, then stew it tender in rich gravy. Send it to table in the gravy. KALE, To Cultivate.—Dig the ground two feet deep, manure it liberally, and sow the seed thinly about the middle of March for a main crop, covering the seed with a little fine earth. A sowing may also be made in the second week in May for transplanting in August. Let the plants of cottagers’ or other large varieties be sown in rows two feet and a half apart, allowing the same distance between each plant. If the weather be dry at the time of transplanting, water occasionally until the plants are established, and keep the ground at all times free from weeds. KALI (LEMON).—Carbonate of soda, five ounces; tartaric acid, five ounces ; loaf sugar, one pound. Reduce the whole to a fine powder,