STRAW HATS, To Clean.—Wash them with soap and water, rinse In clear water, dry in the air, and then wash them over with the white of an egg, beaten to a froth. STRAW HATS. To Dye them Black.—Boil for three or four hours in a strong liquor of logwood, adding a little copperas ; let the hats remain in the liquor all night, then take them out and dry in the air. Should the dye not be deep enough, repeat the process. When satis- factory, rub inside and out with a sponge moistened with fine oil, and stand them on a block till dry. STRAW HATS. To Dye them Brown.—Boil them for four hours in half a pound of fustic chips, a quarter of a pound of peachwood, and half an ounce of madder. Then add half a pound of green copperas, boil for two hours longer, and dry, block, and brush them. STRAW MATTING, To Preserve the Colour of.—Straw matting may be kept a good colour by washing it when necessary with salt and wstcr# STRAW PLAIT, To Bleach.—Expose it to the fumes of burning sulphur in a close chest or box, or immerse it in a weak solution of chloride of lime, and afterwards wash it well in water. Oil of vitriol, or oxalic acid mixed with water is also used for the same purpose. STUCCO WORK, To Polish.—When the plaster is dry, rub it with pumice-stone, then with a whet-stone, afterwards with tripoli, and finally go over it with a piece of felt dipped in soap suds. STURGEON (BOILED). —To two quarts of water add a pint of vinegar, a stick of horse-radish, half the peel of a lemon, pepper, salt, and two bay leaves. Put in the fish, and boil gently till tender. Garnish with fried oysters, horse-radish, and lemon, and serve with anchovy butter. STURGEON (BROILED).—Cut the fish into slices, dip them in egg and bread crumbs, sprinkle with parsley, pepper, and salt, wrap them in white paper, and broil gently on a greased gridiron. Serve with butter of anchovy and soy. STURGEON (ROAST).—Cut the fish into good slices, without removing the skin ; roast tenderly on a cork-spit, basting frequently with butter. Serve with sorrel and anchovy sauce. STYES, The Treatment of.—Bathe the stye frequently with warm water, and take a little opening medicine. When the stye is broken, apply ointment of citron and spermaceti. SUGAR, To Clarify.—Put into an enamelled stew-pan four pounds of fine sugar and a quart of cold water. Beat to a froth the white of an egg, put it with the sugar, and boil gently till no scum rises and the sugar is perfectly clear ; strain through a cloth, and keep in closely-corked bottles. SUNBURN, Wash for.—Two drams of borax, one dram of rock alum, one dram of camphor, half an ounce of sugar candy, and one pound of ox-gall. Mix, and stir well for ten minutes or so, and repeat the stirring three or four times a day for a fortnight, till it appears clear and trans- parent, then strain through blotting paper, and bottle for use. SUN PEELINGS, SCALDS, &c., Lotion for.—Mix equal parts of linseed oil and lime water. Shake well before using. SWEDES OR TURNIPS, To Prevent Destruction of.—In a dry, hot season the “fly" will frequently destroy a field of swedes or turnips in the course of a few days. To avoid this disaster it is advisable to sow in a well-prepared seed bed, and by the use of super-phosphate to urge the young plant as rapidly as possible into the rough leaf, in which stage it loses its chief attraction for its most notorious insect foe.