70 the pain apply an elm bark poultice, or one made of wheat bran, soft soap, and table salt. Afterwards apply a little healing salve. Keep in a cool atmosphere ; on no account go near to a fire. FRUIT BREAD.—Take a pound of flour and mix in a dessert- spoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Rub into this a quarter of a pound of beef dripping, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants, one ounce of finely-minced lemon peel, and the half of a grated nutmeg. Mix into a light dough, with new milk, pour into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven for one hour. FRUIT PIE (PLAIN).—Mix together half a pound of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, half an ounce of white sugar, and a little salt ; rub in three ounces of dripping, and make into a paste with water. Roll out the paste a little larger than the top of the pie-dish. Cut some strips off the paste, and after moistening the edges of the dish, put the strips round. Put half a pound of fruit into the dish, cover it with two ounces of moist sugar, put another half pound of fruit in, and pour in half a gill of water. Wet the paste round the edges, put on the top crust, press the edges together, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. When half done sprinkle it with water and white sugar. FRUIT PUDDING.—Chop up a quarter of a pound of beef suet, mix it with half a pound of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a little salt; make it into a light, firm paste with water, and put it on a floured board. Cut off one-third, roll out the large piece, and line a greased pint pudding basin. Put in half a pound of any fruit in season, two ounces of moist sugar, and a little water, then another half pound of the fruit. Roll out the remainder of the paste, put it on the top ; damp it and draw the lining over it ; tie in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan filled with boiling water. Boil for two hours. FRUIT SALT, To Prepare.—Take two ounces of bicarbonate of soda, two ounces of tartaric acid, two ounces of cream of tartar, two ounces of magnesia citrate, one ounce of Epsom salts, and half a pound of loaf sugar dust. Dry thoroughly in the oven, mix, and put into stoppered bottles. Keep in the dry. Dose: A teaspoonful in a tumbler of water. FRUIT STAINS FROM THE HANDS, To Remove.—Fruit stains may most readily be removed from the hands by washing in water in which some pearl-ash has been dissolved. FRUIT STAINS FROM LINEN, To Remove.—See Linen, To Remove Fruit Stains from. FRUIT, To Preserve.—All kinds of fruits can be preserved for a year, or more, with the use of little or no sugar, and at the same time retain nearly all their natural flavour. The process is not more difficult, and is less costly, than the stewing process, while the fruit is far more delicious and healthful. The whole operation depends upon simply heating the fruit through, and then keeping it entirely free from the access of air. FRUIT, To Preserve for Winter Use.—Pick the fruit on a very fine day, remove all the blemished ones, and, if necessary, trim the stalks from those intended to be preserved. Have some perfectly clean wide- mouthed bottles ; turn each of these, the instant before filling, neck downwards, and burn a few splints of wood inside ; drop in the fruit before the vapour escapes, shake gently down, press into the neck a new cork, and dip the neck of the bottle into melted rosin. Set the bottles of fruit at night in an oven just warm, and allow them to remain till the morning. The oven must not be too hot, or the bottles will burst. Any kind of fruit will keep good twelve months when bottled in this way if the manipulation is quickly carried out.