s light, rich soil, and flourishes best in the open air, but is only half-hardy in England. It is multiplied by division of the bulb, planting the off-sets in peat mould as soon as they are removed from their parent. Seedlings do not flower till their fourth or fifth year. During the dormant season keep the bulbs well protected from damp. AGATES, To Test.—The curious figures found in agates are some- times produced artificially by a solution of silver in nitric acid and after- wards exposing the part to the sun. This imposition may be discovered by laying the stones for a few hours in aqua-fortis, when the artificial figures will entirely disappear, leaving only the natural veins. AGNAILS, To Prevent.—Loosen the semicircular skin of the nails by means of any half-blunt instrument, but without touching the quicks, then dip the tips of the fingers in tepid water, and push the skin back with the towel. This method, practised daily, will prevent the formation of agnails and greatly improve the general appearance of the hands. AGUE AND LOW NERVOUS FEVER, Tonic for.—To one quart of water add two ounces of bruised lance-leaved Peruvian bark. Boil from ten to fifteen minutes and strain while hot. From one to three ounces to be taken whenever the shivering is felt. Rub the back with equal parts of rum and spirits of turpentine, and keep the bowels open with the following mixture:—Dried sulphate of magnesia, an ounce and a half; sulphate of soda, six drams ; infusion of senna, fourteen ounces ; tincture of jalap, one ounce, and compound tincture of cardamoms, one ounce. Two tablespoonfuls to be taken every four hours until it operates. ALABASTER, To Clean.—Ordinary dirt is best removed from alabaster by means of soap and water ; but if any portion is stained, first wash it with soap and water, cover it with whiting, and after this has re- mained on for a few hours, wash it off, and rub the part where the stains were. ALE (MULLED).—Make some ale quite hot, add a little grated nutmeg or mixed spice ; for each quart of ale beat up half a dozen eggs and mix them with a little cold ale ; pour the hot ale to it, and empty from vessel to vessel several times to prevent curdling ; stir it over the fire till sufficiently thick, then add a piece of butter or a little brandy, and serve with dry toast. ALE, To Brew Long-keeping.—The main objects to be kept in view are to brew the liquor from the very best materials, and of such body and strength that sufficient alcohol may be formed to keep it ; to bottle at the right time, and, when bottled, that it should be kept at a proper uniform temperature throughout the year. Brew moderate quantities at a time, using a liberal quantity of malt and hops. Take only the extract of one mashing from the grist, and let the heat of this one mashing be from 165 to 175 degrees Fahrenheit. Thus brewed, the ale will not require clearing by artificial means. Such ts bottle well, and will keep any length of time in bottle, becoming mellow to the palate and desirably vinous, and are not so likely to burst the bottles as weak ales. Good table beer may be made from the grist remaining after the strong ale has been brewed, by a second and third mashing at a rather higher temperature, and boiling the hops with the worts and properly fermenting afterwards. ALKANET.—This plant—the flowers of which grow in long spikes, coming out imbricatim, like the tiles of a house—may be propagated by seeds sown either in spring or autumn upon a bed of light, sandy soil, and afterwards transplanted at a distance of two feet from one another. The root imparts an elegant red colour to oily substances, and is in conse- quence an ingredient in ointments, plasters, &c. It likewise improves the colour of mahogany.