203 fine eggs to a strong froth. Mix the whole lightly together, gradually adding one pound of powdered loaf sugar. When the cake is baked sufficiently take it out of the oven, lay on the paste, and put it back into the oven to brown. WEDDING CAKES, Saccharine Icing for.—Well mix two pounds of double refined sugar with two ounces of fine starch, and sift it through a gauze sieve ; now beat the whites of five eggs for half an hour, adding very gradually the mixture of sugar and starch. After the whole is well mixed, beat it for half an hour longer. As soon as the almond paste is brown remove the cake from the oven and at once pour on to it the sugar icing, spreading it evenly with a knife. It will harden by the time the cake is cold. WELSH RABBIT.—Toast a slice of bread, then put into a small frying-pan a good slice of cheese and a tablespoonful of old ale, mix them well together and spread upon the toast. Or the cheese may be toasted on one side only and laid upon the bread, and then browned with a salamander. WHISKY CORDIAL.—Strip from their stalks one pound of ripe white currants and put them into a large jug; add the rind of two lemons, a quarter of an ounce of grated ginger, and a quart of whisky ; cover the jug closely, and let it remain covered for twenty-four hours. Strain through a hair sieve, add one pound of lump sugar, and let it stand for twelve hours longer ; then bottle, and cork well. WHISKY TODDY, An Improved Method of Making.—Take a large tumbler holding quite half a pint, and put a dessert-spoonful of ale or stout, with two slices of lemon, in the same ; then fill a good-sized wineglass with whisky ; place the wineglass containing the whisky up- right in the centre of the tumbler, and pour boiling water into the wine- glass, thereby causing the liquid to run over into the tumbler, until it is nearly full; throw away the contents of the wineglass, and add sugar to taste. This process will make the toddy drink much more mild and palatable than the usual way. WHITE (LIQUID), for Theatrical Use.—Put four ounces of oxide of bismuth into a pint of rose-water, and stir until the mixture is complete. % WHITES.—Keep the body warm with light clothing, and take moderate exercise in the open air. The following as medicine :—Sulphate of magnesia, six drams; sulphate of iron, ten grains ; diluted sulphuric acid, forty drops ; compound tincture of cardamoms, half an ounce ; water, seven ounces. A fourth part night and morning. A syringeful of the following injection to be used twice a day :—Decoction of oak bark, one pint ; dried alum, half an ounce. WHITE SWELLINGS, Counter-Irritant in.—Tartar emetic, twenty grains ; white sugar, ten grains ; lard, one dram and a half. Mix. Spread it upon linen, and apply. WHITEWASH FOR ROOFS OF HOUSES.—Mix Buxton lime with whiting, size, or thin glue, and a little linseed oil. This will stand a good deal of rain before it is washed off the slates or tiles. WHITINGS (BROILED).—Gut, wash, and dry the fish, steep them in vinegar for a few moments and dust them with flour ; put them on to a hot gridiron which has been rubbed all over with butter, and turn them frequently until done. Serve with cockle sauce or melted butter. The dish may be garnished with red cabbage or beetroot. WIGGS.—To half a pint of warm milk add three-quarters of a pound of flour, mix in three spoonfuls of yeast, cover up, and set before the fire to rise ; then work into it a quarter of a pound of sugar and a