40 ecMn'r It is quite hardy, and grows in any soil, but flourishes best in moist situations. The beautiful peach-blossom tinted flowers, resembling the crocus in shape, appear in the autumn before the bulb has quitted its dormant state, so far as the roots are concerned, and will even burst into beauty without coming into contact with a particle of earth ; but in this case it is then necessary to plant them when the flowering is over. Its foliage beincr somewhat coarse and cumbrous it is advisable to let them leat in a reserved ground, and afterwards to transplant them to flower where desired. The plant is regarded as poisonous. ... r COLD CREAM.—Oil of almonds, one pound ; white wax, four ounces. Melt, pour into a warm mortar, and add by degrees a pint of rose-water. It should be light and white. COLD IN THE HEAD.—Professor Ferrier says that catarrh may as a rule be checked by using a snuff composed of six drams of bismuth, two drams of acacia powder, and two grains of hydrochlorate of morphia. Half of the above quantity to be taken in twenty-four hours. COLDS, Composition Powder for.—Poplar bark, four ounces; bayberry, eight ounces ; cinnamon, one ounce ; cayenne, two drams. Mix, and pass through a sieve till well incorporated. From half a tea- spoonful to a teaspoonful to be put into half a pint of boiling water, well sweetened, and to be taken hot at bed-time. As a remedy for colds it is pronounced to be unrivalled. COLD, To Disperse a.—Hot, strong lemonade taken at bed-time will often break up a bad cold. This remedy should certainly command a trial. COLIC (FLATULENT), To Relieve.—Dip a flannel in hot water, wring it as dry as possible, sprinkle it with oil of turpentine, and apply to the painful part. COLIC, To Relieve.—This affection, which is generally brought on through wind or obstinate costiveness, may be relieved by placing a bag of hot bran upon the stomach, and drinking a glass of hot lemonade, or a wineglassful of peppermint with a pinch of cayenne pepper in it. From half an ounce to one ounce of castor oil to be taken to relieve the bowels. COLLOPS (MINCED). —Mince some beef, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put into jars, and cover with clarified butter. When wanted for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan with sliced onion ; fry, add a little water, then put in the mince meat. In a few minutes it will be ready for serving. COLOURED FABRICS, To Wash.—The most effectual way of preserving the colour of chintz, merinoes, &c., is to avoid rubbing them with soap when they are washed. This may be done if a good lather is made before the articles are inserted in the water, and mixing with the second water a tablespoonful of ox-gall. The fabric should be washed as quickly as possible and passed through two rinse waters, putting into each a teaspoonful of vinegar. Dry quickly, as it injures the colours to allow them to remain damp long. The articles must never be allowed to freeze, nor should they be smoothed with a very hot iron. Articles of a green or pink tint should be mangled or cold-pressed, as hot irons frequently change the colour. Another method is to boil sago or rice to a pulp, dilute it with warm water, and wash the articles therein without soap. COLTSFOOT (SWEET-SCENTED), To Grow.-This plant Is worthy of cultivation as its heliotrope-scented flowers appear in winter even before its leaves. It will grow in any moist loamy soil from slips taken from the root. It requires to be kept well trimmed, otherwise it becomes very troublesome.