124 MAHOGANY, To Remove Stains from.—Dip a cork in aquafortis or oxalic acid and water, and rub it upon the stains till they disappear, then wash the part with clear water, and apply a little furniture polish. MANURES, Different Systems of Applying.—In experiments made by Wolling and others on this subject, the methods in which the manures were applied comprised saturating the soil with solutions of nutritive salts, manuring in drills, placing the manure in holes where plants were to be inserted, and transplanting roots into a mass of soil mixed with moist manures. As far as laboratory experiments may be relied on, the sowing of the manures in drills or spreading it broadcast is the best method. The other systems show no advantages ; indeed, planting in a mass of moist earth and manure proved decidedly hurtful to the plants experimented upon. MAPS, To Mount.—See Oleographs. MARBLE CHIMNEY-PIECES, To Polish.—Dissolve six ounces of pearl-ash in a quart of boiling water, add a quarter of a pound of white wax, and simmer together for thirty minutes. Let it cool ; remove the wax from the surface ; work it into a soft paste in a mortar with a little hot water, and apply this to the marble. MARBLE, To Clean.—Take two parts of Scotch soda, one part of pumice-stone, and one of finely-powdered chalk; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it with water. Rub it well over the surface of the marble, and when all the stains are removed wash it with soap and water. MARBLE, To Remove Grease Spots from.—First pour upon the grease some strong soda and water, boiling hot; then mix sufficient fullers’ earth to form a thin paste, lay it on the spots, and let it remain for six or seven hours. If the stains be not then removed repeat the process. MARBLE, To Remove Ink Stains from.—Mix into a thick paste some unslacked lime and strong soap ley ; lay it on thickly with a brush, and let it remain for six or seven days, then wash it off with soft soap and water. Should the stain be deep a second application of the paste might be necessary. MARBLE, To Remove Stains from.—To half a pint of soap lees, a gill of turpentine, and a bullock’s gall, add sufficient pipeclay to form a paste. Spread it over the surface of the marble ; let it remain for a couple of days, then rub it off with a soft cloth. In no case use acids to polished marble, as they destroy the gloss. MARBLE, To Take Ironmould out of.—Wet the spots with lemon juice, or with oil of vitriol; let it remain for a quarter of an hour, then rub dry with a soft cloth. Oxalic acid diluted in spirits of wine is also used in the same manner. MARIGOLDS, To Cultivate.—The French marigold is a very showy flower, but, like all others of its kind, is very hard to keep within bounds when it is once admitted to the garden. The seed should be saved from the largest and best of the double flowers and sown in April where the plants are to remain. They will grow almost anywhere, but flourish best in an open situation. MARJORAM (SWEET), To Cultivate.—Sow the seeds on a warm border in March ; when the plants are an inch high transplant them to beds of rich earth, and keep them moist and shaded till they have taken root. It may also be propagated by division of the roots. This plant should form a part of every kitchen garden, as it is in constant demand foi the culinary art. MARMALADE (APPLE).—Peel and core four pounds of tart apples, put them into a saucepan with a quart of cider, or a pint of pure Wine, and two pounds and a half of crushed sugar. Cook them slowly foi