144 OYSTER POWDER, for Sauce, &c.—Take three dozen oysters, put them into a mortar with a quarter of an ounce of salt, pound them well, and rub them through the back of a hair sieve. Dry the mortar, put the oysters into it again with half a pound of flour ; mix to a paste, roll it out the thickness of a penny, and bake it in a gentle oven until it begins to crumble ; then pound, sift, put into bottles, and seal over the corks. OYSTERS (BROILED).—Dip them in flour and put them over a clear fire on a buttered gridiron. When done put a piece of butter on each, and serve as quickly as possible. OYSTERS (CURRIED), Indian Style.—Melt some butter in a saucepan, put to it an onion cut into thin slices, and fry it a rich brown colour ; stir in more butter with a spoonful of curry powder, then add gradually some good broth. When the whole has boiled up, add a minced apple and some grated cocoanut ; simmer till the apple is dissolved, then add salt according to taste, and thicken with flour ; boil for five minutes, and add the oysters with the liquor which comes from them ; simmer for a few minutes, then add a little lemon juice. Stir frequently till the oysters are done, and serve accompanied with boiled rice. OYSTERS (FRIED).—Make a light batter with flour, eggs, and milk; add a little nutmeg, mace, shred parsley, and bread crumbs ; dip the oysters in, and fry them to a light brown. OYSTERS (PICKLED).—Choose large oysters for this purpose. Simmer them very gently in their own liquor for ten minutes, adding a little vinegar, white wine, mace, and pepper. Put them into a jar, one by one, so that no grit may adhere to them, and let them stand till cold; then strain the liquor and pour over them, and keep closely covered with a bladder. OYSTERS (SCALLOPED).—Butter some tin scallop shells, strew in a layer of grated bread, cover the bread with thin slices of butter, and upon these lay the oysters. Pepper the whole well, add a little of the liquor kept from the oysters, put butter over the whole surface, and bake in a quick oven. Brown them with a salamander, and serve in their shells. Time, a quarter of an hour. A tart dish might be substituted for the scallop shells, and an iron shovel made red hot would answer the pur- pose of a salamander. OYSTER SOUP.—Pound ina mortar the yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs and the hard parts of a quart of oysters, put into a saucepan with two quarts of fish stock, and simmer for half an hour. Take out the oysters, cut off the beards and wash the fish ; strain the liquor, and simmer the oysters in it for five minutes longer ; then have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup, Stir one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil, and serve all to- gether. If stock be not at hand, cut up a pound of skate, two pounds of eels, and three or four flounders, and stew them together for an hour before adding the oysters, substituting this fish broth for the stock. OYSTERS (STEWED).—Wash the oysters in their own liquor, and wipe them dry ; then strain the liquor, and pour it into a saucepan ; add the oysters, with a bit of lemon peel, mace, and a few whole peppers. Simmer very gently ; thicken with cream, flour, and butter, and serve with sippets of toast. OYSTERS, To Choose.—The small-shelled Byfleet, Colchester, and Milford oysters, generally known as “ natives," have the finest flavour and are mostly eaten raw ; while the large “ rock’’ oysters are chosen for stews, sauces, pies, &c. The harder the shell is to open the more healthy is the fish ; but when the shell remains open on touching it, the fish is dead and unfit for food.