150 PEARS (BAKED).—Lay some hard pearson a tin plate and bake very slowly in a slack oven. When sufficiently soft, press them flat with a wooden spoon, and put them back into the oven to finish. They should be done with the skins on. PEARS (STEWED).—Peel the pears and cut them in quarters throwing them into cold water as they are done, so as to preserve their colour. Put them into a stew-pan with sugar enough to sweeten ; add a little lemon peel and a few cloves ; cover them with water, and stew them tender, which will take three or four hours. Serve with the liquor poured over them. PEARS, To Preserve.—Remove the peel and simmer the fruit in a thin syrup. Let them stand for a couple of days, then make the syrup richer ; simmer again, and repeat till they are clear ; dry in the sun or in a very cool oven. The fruit may be kept in the syrup and dried as wanted. PEAS (EVERLASTING).—These are very useful and effective plants for covering a trellis or running round an arbour or verandah. If planted in a well-drained hazel loam they will run up to the height of eight or nine feet, and require but little attention. They may be freely propagated by division of the root, or by seed when this is obtainable, for as a rule they do not bear seed very readily. PEAS (GREEN), To Boil.—Shell the peas just before they are to be cooked ; put a little salt into some boiling water, and when it is dissolved, put in the peas, and let them boil quickly for about twenty minutes, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered. When tender, drain, put into a tureen, and stir in gently butter, pepper, and salt. PEAS (GREEN), To Preserve.—Shell the peas, put them into a stew-pan with spring water, and directly they boil let them drain on a sieve. Then pound the pods with a little of the water in which the peas were boiled, and strain the juice which comes from them. Boil this juice for about ten minutes with a little salt and as much water as will cover the pea«. Put the peas into bottles, pour this green water over them, and when cold tie tightly down with a bladder or leather cover. Keep in a dry place. PEA SOUP.—One pint of split peas, six good-sized onions, two carrots, the outside sticks of two heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few small pieces of bacon, pepper and salt, and three quarts of spring water. Boil the vegetables together till they are tender, strain through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery, a teaspoonful of pepper, a little dried mint and fried bread, and a little spinach. Time, three hours. PEA SOUP (GREEN).—Chop up two or three lettuces, and put them into a saucepan with a couple of sliced cucumbers, a pint of peas, a sprig of mint, a little parsley, and an onion. Stew for half an hour, then add a quart of thin gravy or stock, stew for two hours longer, and thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. PEAS PUDDING.—Tie a quart of split peas up loosely in a cloth, put them into a saucepan of hot water, and boil for two hours, or until tender ; then take them out, beat them up in a dish with a little salt, the yolk of an egg, and a piece of butter. When quite smooth tie them up again and boil for one hour longer. PEAS (SWEET).—These showy flowers deserve a place in every garden. It is a good plan to mix the seeds of the different varieties, so as to produce a good display of colour. They will grow in almost any soil, all that is necessary being to sow them in the open ground in February or March, and to stick the plants when they are two or three inches high.