i95 Or use the following:—Best pale glue and white curd soap, of each half an ounce ; hot water, a quarter of a pint ; dissolve, then add a quarter ol an ounce of powdered alum. VARNISH FOR IRON.—To one gallon of benzole, add one pound of gum-asphaltum and a quarter of a pound of gum-benjamin ; let stand until dissolved, then add one pint of linseed oil. It may be made clear by leaving out the asphaltum, and any colour can then be mixed with it. VARNISH FOR MAPS, &c.—Mix equal parts of genuine Canada balsam and rectified oil of turpentine ; place in a bottle, in warm water, agitate well, set aside in a warm place, and in a week pour off the clear. The map, print, &c., should be given two coats of size before the rarnish is applied. Or, boil some clear parchment cuttings in water, in a glazed earthen vessel, till they produce a very clear size ; strain, and keep till wanted. Give the drawings or maps two coats of the size, brushing it over quickly so as not to disturb the colours. VARNISH FOR PAINT.—To half a gallon of oil of turpentine add one pound and three-quarters of pale rosin. Mix with the colours. Or the Varnish for Iron mentioned above may be used in the same way. . VARNISH FOR SHINY LEATHER.—Boil litharge with linseed oil, and colour with lampblack. This composition is also used for making enamelled leather. VARNISH (FURNITURE).—To half a pint of spirits of wine, add one ounce of gum-sandarach, half an ounce of shellac, a quarter of an ounce of mastic, a quarter of an ounce of gum-benjamin, and half an ounce of Venice turpentine. It may be coloured red with dragon's blood or Indian red, or yellow with saffron. Stand it in a warm place till the gums are dissolved, then strain off. VARNISH (JAPANNER’S COPAL).—Melt two pounds and a half of picked copal in ten ounces of linseed oil, then add three pounds of oil of turpentine, and mix the ingredients well together. VARNISHED PAINT, To Clean.—Steep spent tea leaves in water for half an hour ; strain, and use the liquid for varnished paint, oil- cloths, &c. It requires very little exertion to make the articles clean and bright by this means. It will not, however, answer for unvarnished paint. VARNISHING, To Prepare New Wood for.—Dissolve either gum-tragacanth or isinglass in water, and coat the wood therewith, so that all the pores are filled up before applying the varnish. Very thin glue may likewise be used for the same purpose. VEAL (BREAST OF), To Carve.—This consists of gristles and ribs, which should be separated by cutting the brisket, or soft bones, and afterwards dividing the ribs. Serve each guest with a small piece of the sweetbread, and with a portion of the gristles or ribs, which are dainty morsels. VEAL (FILLET OF), To Carve.—Cut into handsome, smooth, thin slices in the same manner as a round of beef is carved, helping to a portion of the stuffing, a little fat, and of the browned outside, the latter being considered a choice part. VEAL (GIGOT OF), To Carve.—This may be cut either in horizontal slices, or as a leg of mutton, commencing near to the broad end. VEAL, Knuckle of.—Saw the knuckle into three pieces and put them into a stew-pan with about two pounds of streaked bacon, three or four onions, a carrot, a couple of turnips, and six pepper-corns ; place over