«3 GRAVY (BROWN), for Meat or Poultry.—Take the brown parts of either boiled or roasted meat, mince them finely, put them into a basin and cover with boiling water ; let stand till next day, then boil for five minutes, strain, and preserve for use. GRAVY (CLARIFIED).—Veal or beef gravy is clarified with whites of eggs. All clarified articles require to be more highly seasoned than others, as the clarifying takes away some of their flavour. GRAVY FOR BROWN SAUCES.—Cut some neck of beef into thin slices, flour them well, and put them into a stew-pan with some fat bacon, an onion, sweet marjoram, pepper, and salt. Put it to brown over a slow fire, then put some water on it, stir well, and boil for thirty minutes ; strain, and when cold remove the fat, and add a little lemon juice. It is then ready for use at any time. GRAYLINGS (FRIED).—Remove the scales and gut, wash, wipe dry, dust with flour, put them down before a good fire, then fry in hot fat. Serve with butter and parsley. GREASE SPOTS FROM WOODWORK, To Remove.— Moisten one ounce of powdered fullers’ earth with a little spirit of turpen- tine ; add one ounce of potassium and half an ounce of salt of tartar. Work it into a paste with a little soft soap, and form it into small squares. In applying, first moisten the grease, then rub the soap over it with water i till it lathers. GREEN FIRE, To Make.—Flour of sulphur, thirteen parts; nitrate of baryta (well dried and powdered), seventy-seven parts ; oxymu- riate of potassa, five parts ; metallic arsenic, two parts ; charcoal, three parts. GREEN-FLY, To Destroy.—Mix together soft soap and a solu- tion of tobacco, paint it upon the stems and infested leaves, and alterwards syringe with clear water. GREENGAGE TART.—Fill a pie-dish with fruit which is not quite ripe, then dissolve a quarter of a pound of sugar in a little water and pour the syrup over the fruit, cover with a puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. When done brush the yolk of egg over the top, replace it in the oven for a few minutes, and upon taking it out, sift over it powdered white sugar. GREENS, Gaseous Exhalations from.—A piece of bread, about the size of a billiard ball, tied up in a linen bag and placed in the pot in w'hich greens are boiling will absorb the gases which sometimes send such unpleasant odours through the house. GREYHOUNDS (FEED FOR), when Training.—Take wheat- meal and oatmeal of each equal quantities ; liquorice, anise seed, and whites of eggs; beat the whole into a paste, form into loaves, and bake. They must be broken up and given in rich broth. GRIPES, To Relieve Babies Suffering from.—Powdered rhubarb, half a scruple ; carbonate of magnesia, one scruple ; simple syrup, three drams ; dill water, eight drams. Mix, and give one teaspoonful every four hours to infants under six months old, or two teaspoonfuls every four hours to children over six months of age. GROAT GRUEL.—Boil half a pound of groats in two quarts of water, with a blade of mace ; when the groats are soft, add white wine and sugar to taste. Serve with toast. GROUND RICE PUDDING.—Boil two dessert-spoonfuls of ground rice in a pint of milk with cinnamon and lemon peel ; let it grow cold, then add two well-beaten eggs, a little nutmeg, a few raisins, and enough sugar to sweeten to taste. Line a pie-dish with crust, pour in the rice, &c., and bake.