207 Ferment four days, then put it into a cask. It will be ready for bottling in about six weeks. WINE (PALERMO).—Boil a gallon of water, let it stand till cool, then put to it four pounds of chopped Malaga raisins ; let it stand for about ten days, stirring occasionally, then strain the liquor, and add a little yeast. Stop close for three months, add a pint of brandy, and pour into bottles. WINE (PARSNIP).—Boil sixteen pounds of sliced parsnips in five gallons of water until they are quite soft ; squeeze the liquor from them, pass it through a sieve, and to each gallon of the liquor add three pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole for three-quarters of an hour ; let it get nearly cold, then add a little yeast on toast. Leave it in a tub for ten days, stirring it well each day ; then put it into a cask, which must be filled up every day as it works over. When fermentation has ceased, put in the bung, and stand it by for a year. WINE (PEACH).—Water, four and a half gallons; refined sugar, six pounds and a half; honey, one pound and a half; finely-powdered white tartar, one ounce. Ferment the above, add half a gallon of brandy, and put it into the vat. On the following day, take about twenty peaches, pound the kernels with the fruit and add the pulp to the other ingredients in the vat. When fermentation wholly ceases, bung up. WINE (QUINCE).—Pare and core the fruit, express the juice, to every gallon of which add two pounds and a half of sugar ; stir till dis- solved ; pour it into a cask, leaving the bung out till fermentation ceases, then stop it close ; let it stand for six months, then bottle off. As it ripens in age it improves in its flavour. WINE (RAISIN).—Chop the raisins, and to every pound add a quart of water which has been boiled and cooled. Stir frequently for a month, then take out the fruit and pour the liquor into a cask, stop it closely, and let it remain for four or five weeks ; strain it into another cask, and to every four and a half gallons add three pounds of sugar, and the juice of six Seville oranges ; infuse the rinds of the oranges in a quart of brandy, and add the spirit to the wine. Let the whole remain in the cask for three months, then bottle. It will be in prime condition in twelve months. WINE (RASPBERRY).—To each gallon of fruit put a gallon of water ; stir well together so as to bruise the raspberries, and let stand for two days ; strain, and to each gallon of the liquor add three pounds of white sugar ; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, let stand for three months, then bottle, putting a tablespoonful of brandy into each bottle. WINE (RED CURRANT).—Put twenty pounds of red currants and four quarts of raspberries into a tub or vat. Mash them well, and add fifteen quarts of cold water ; next day strain the liquor, and return it to the tub, with twenty pounds of loaf sugar. Let it stand three days, remove the scum, and put the liquor into a barrel; place the bung in very lightly, and about a week afterwards add a quart of the best pale brandy, and stop it up. This will make six gallons of good wine. WINE (RHENISH).—Press the juice from apples, and to every gallon add two pounds of loaf sugar; boil till no more scum rises, then strain through a sieve and let it cool. Add yeast, and let it remain in the tub till the head begins to flatten ; skim, draw it off clear, and put it into a cask. Let stand for twelve months, rack it off, and fine with isinglass, adding half a pint of brandy to each gallon of wine. WINE (RHUBARB).—When the green stalks or stems have arrived at their full size—which is usually about the end of May—pluck them from the plant, cut away the leaves, and reduce the stalks to a pulp,