99 INK FOR TICKET WRITING.—To a gill of ordinary writing Ink, add half an ounce of gum ; set it in a warm place, and shake it up occasionally till it is well mixed. INK (GOLD), To Prepare.—Grind with a muller upon a porphyry slab some gold leaves with white honey till they become reduced to the finest possible division. Collect the paste with a knife or spatula, put it into a large glass and diffuse through water. The gold will then fall to the bottom, while the honey will dissolve in the water, which must be decanted off. Wash the sediment repeatedly till it is entirely free from the honey. The powder, when dried, is very brilliant. When required for use, mix the gold dust with a little gum-water, and when the writing is dry burnish it with a wolf’s tooth. INK (INDESTRUCTIBLE).—Dissolve twenty grains of sugar in thirty grains of water and add a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid. Upon heating the mixture the sugar becomes carbonised, and when applied to the paper leaves a coating of carbon which cannot be w'ashed off. The stain is rendered more permanent by the action of the acid upon the paper, and resists the action of chemical agents. INK (JAPAN). —Boil half a pound of Aleppo galls and a quarter of a pound of logwood chips in six quarts of water till reduced to half the quantity ; strain, and add a quarter of a pound of copperas, a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic, an ounce of sugar, half an ounce of blue vitriol (sulphate of copper), and half an ounce of sugar-candy ; stir till dissolved ; strain clear, and put into a bottle. INK (MARKING).—Dissolve in a glass mortar one dram of nitrate of silver (lunar caustic) in double its weight of clear water. This forms the ink. Then dissolve in another vessel one dram of salts of tartar in one ounce of water. Wet the linen with this latter liquid, let it dry, and afterwards write on the part with the ink. Or, dissolve a dram and a half of nitrate of silver in three-quarters of an ounce of water ; add as much of the strongest ammonia water as will dis- solve the precipitate formed on its first addition, then further add one dram and a half of mucilage, and colour with a little sap green. Writing executed with this ink turns black on being passed over a hot Italian iron. INK (MARKING), To Remove.—Steep the marked portion of the linen in a solution of one ounce of potassium and four ounces of water. The stain will be obliterated in a few hours. After the ink is removed the linen must be thoroughly cleansed, as the potassium is highly poisonous. INK (PERPETUAL), For Tombstones, &c.—Melt over the fire three pounds of pitch, then add one pound of lampblack ; mix well. Apply to the marble while in a melted state. INK POWDER, For Travellers.—Powdered nutgalls, six ounces ; powdered green vitriol, four ounces ; powdered gum-arabic, one ounce and a half ; salt, three-quarters of an ounce. Mix, and keep perfectly dry. When required, add a spoonful of hot water to a little of the powder. INK (PRINTERS’).—Boil linseed oil to a proper consistence and tenacity and add lampblack to produce the required colour. For red ink substitute vermilion in lieu of lampblack. INK (PRINTERS’ COLOURED), To Mix.—Grind the colours to a fine powder upon an iron slab, and mix it to the required consistence with printers’ varnish, which may be made by boiling linseed oil and adding thereto some yellow resin ; or, for fine ink, Canadian balsam of the consis- tence of honey may be used. Care must be taken that the colour is thoroughly incorporated with the varnish, for upon this depends the quality of the work produced. Where certain tints are required they may be obtained by the addition of flake white. If desired to darken certain of the