123 Mix, and heat them in a large pipkin ; remove from the fire, add a quarter of an ounce of alkanet-root, cover close for a few hours, then filter through blotting-paper. MACHINERY, To Prevent Friction in.—To one part of plumbago add four parts of hog’s lard or other grease, and rub the mixture over the surface of the axle, spindle, or other part where the bearing is. MACKEREL (BAKED).—Cut the fish open, wash and wipe dry, rub the inside with pepper and salt, and stuff with fine bread crumbs, the roe chopped small, parsley, and a small quantity of sweet herbs, the whole mixed together with the yolk of egg. Sew the fish up, lay it in a deep baking dish, sprinkle with flour, and lay on a little cold fresh butter in small pieces ; bake for half an hour, and serve with butter and parsley. MACKEREL (BOILED).—Rub the fish with vinegar, and boil in salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Boil some fennel and chopped parsley, stir into melted butter, and serve accompanied with gooseberry sauce. MACKEREL (BROILED).—Pull off the heads, remove the guts, and take out the roes. Bruise the roes with a fork, mix them with the yolk of egg, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, fennel, parsley, mint or thyme, and a few bread crumbs ; boil together for a short time, then cut the fish open, fill with the stuffing, tie up, dip in oil, and broil over a clear slow fire on a greased gridiron. Serve with fennel sauce, or with butter, ketchup, and walnut pickles. MACKEREL (COLLARED).—Remove the heads and guts, slit them down the front, and take out the bones ; strew over the insides some finely-chopped parsley, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt; roll them up firmly, and tie up separately in cloths. Put a little salt and vinegar in the water, and boil them for twenty minutes ; take them up, put into a pot, and pour the liquor over them to prevent the cloths sticking ; let stand till cold, then remove the cloths and put them back into the liquor, adding more vinegar. Send to table with the liquor under them, and garnished with fennel and parsley. MACKEREL (POTTED).—Clean, season with salt, whole pepper, spice, bay leaves, and butter ; bake in a pan ; when cold, take out the bones, pack them in pots and cover with clarified butter. MACKEREL (SOUSED).—Lay them lengthways in a dish with the heads and tails together; season with salt, whole pepper, allspice, and chopped onion ; cover the whole with vinegar and water, then bake for about thirty minutes. MACKEREL, To Carve.—Remove the head by a clean cut of the knife just above the fin, and when the fish is small serve an entire side ; when large, divide the fish so as to serve three persons, dividing the middle portion down the centre, but serving the tail portion whole. MACKEREL, To Preserve.—Boil the fish, remove the heads and bones, and rub them with the following seasoning :—Half a cupful of salt, an ounce and a half of pepper, half a dozen cloves, and a little mixed spice. Let the whole surface be well covered with the seasoning ; then lay the fish in an unglazed dish, cover them with strong vinegar, and pour salad oil over the top. The fish may in this way be kept good for several wcgIv s» MAGIC-LANTERN SLIDES, To Paint.—Stand the glass before a fire, or put it in the oven, until it is very hot, then rub it over with a weak solution of gum-water ; let it dry, place under it the picture to be copied, and draw it upon the glass with a pen in Indian ink. It may after- wards be painted with oil or water colours.