i6o PORT NEGUS.—To each pint of port wine add a quart of boiling water, a quarter of a pound of grated sugar, a lemon, and a glass or two of good foreign liqueur. Mix the ingredients in a jug, and cover over till cool enough for use. As this beverage is largely used at children’s parties, the old and inexpensive wines are not needed, new and fruity ones answering the purpose better. Grated nutmeg is sometimes added, but it is questionable whether it improves the flavour. POSSET (BARLEY).—Boil a quarter of a pound of barley in a pint and a half of milk ; add half a pint of cream and a little mixed spice ; sweeten to taste ; let it stand till nearly cold, then pour in a glassful of sherry, and froth it up. POSSETT (BEER).—Scald half a pint of milk, and pour it upon some bread cut in the form of dice ; add half a pint of boiling hot beer ; sweeten with loaf sugar, and flavour with nutmeg. POT ASS A, Solution of.—Lime, recently burnt, eight ounces; boiling distilled water, one gallon. Sprinkle a little of the water on the lime in an earthen vessel, and when it is slaked and fallen to powder add fifteen ounces of carbonate of potash, dissolved in the remainder of the water. Bung down and shake frequently until the mixture is cold ; then allow the whole to settle, and decant the clear supernatant portion into perfectly clean and well-stoppered green-glass bottles. POTATO AND MEAT PUDDING.—Boil four pounds of potatoes, and when quite done, dry and roll them fine with a rolling-pin. As soon as they are cold, make them into a batter with a couple of eggs and a quart of milk, by first well beating up the eggs with the milk and then beating that up with the potatoes till the whole is a smooth batter. Season some chops, or steaks, or other pieces of meat, and lay half of them in a dish ; pour upon them half the batter, and put another layer of seasoned meat, and the rest of the batter on the top. Put it into the oven at once and bake gradually till the meat is cooked and the pudding a fine brown. The more the batter is beaten, the lighter the pudding will be. POTATO DISEASE.—M. Pousard, president of the Agri- cultural Society of Chalons, in a paper to that body, states that he has discovered a remedy for this disease. The secret consists in planting them after the commencement of June, instead of in April. By this means they escape the frost, and the leaf is not exposed to the hot sun of July. His opinion is that the alternate frost and heat corrupt the root by their opposing influence. Before communicating his opinion M. Pousard con- tinued his experiments for several years, and the invariable result was that his potatoes were of a fine size and perfectly sound. This plan has the further advantage that two crops may be grown upon the same ground within the year. POTATO PUDDING.—Take about two pounds of potatoes, boil them, and let them get cold, then beat up three eggs with a pint of milk and two ounces of moist sugar; mix all together, put it into a dish, sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top, and bake. POTATO SOUP.—Boil half a dozen mealy potatoes in three pints of white stock until they are tender ; pulp them through a sieve with an onion boiled soft enough for the purpose ; thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, season with cayenne, black pepper, and salt, and just before serving add four tablespoonfuls of cream. POTATOES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—Rather more than parboil the potatoes, then take them up, let them get cold, and cut them into moderately thick slices. Put into a stew-pan a lump of fresh butter with a teaspoonful of flour and a teacupful of broth ; when these boil add the potatoes with some finely chopped parsley ; season with salt