46 COURT BOUILLON, for Fresh-water Fish.—Tie together a large bunch of parsley, green onions, basil, thyme, bay leaves, and garlic, and put them into a fish-kettle with a quart of white wine and a good quantity of water, add some sliced onions and carrots, and let the whole stew gently for three or four hours ; then put in the fish to cook. The liquor will serve for several times. COURT PLASTER.—Melt a quarter of a pound of isinglass in a gill of water ; add an ounce of tincture of benzoin ; stir together over the fire, and brush evenly over silk or fine cotton. Apply warm. COW-HEEL.—Procure an undressed cowr-heel, boil it till tender, then cut it into handsome pieces, dip them first in egg and afterwards in bread crumbs, and fry a light brown. Lay the meat round a dish, and put in the middle sliced onions fried with butter, or in good gravy. The liquor they were boiled in will make soup. Rashers of bacon or fried sausages are very good accompaniments. COWSLIPS (AMERICAN); or, Mead’s Dodecatheon.—Al- though hardy, this plant is not easy to preserve. It delights in a half-shady spot, and should be set in a compost of one-third light loam and two- thirds heath mould. As the stem dies away in the winter it is advisable to mark its position, so that it may not be disturbed when digging up the ground in the spring. COWS (MILKING).—Three ounces of cod-liver oil given to milking-cows night and morning with their usual food produces sweet and delicate milk and butter in the spring months, at a cost of less than two- pence a day, which, estimating it by weight, is only half the cost of linseed cake. CRAB (DRESSED).—Remove the claws and pick the crab, keeping the white part from the soft, yellow meat, and, having washed the large back shell, put the pickings into it, the white portion on one side and the yellow on the other, dividing the two with thin slices of cucumber ; lay the claws round in any ornamental manner, and dish up on a napkin. Serve with oil and vinegar. As a change the flesh may be mixed with butter, vinegar, oil, cayenne and white pepper, and salt. Serve in the large shell. CRABS, To Choose.—Those of the middle-size are generally the sweetest. The heavy crabs are always the best, the light ones being watery. The tail and the joints of the legs should be stiff, and the body have an agreeable smell. CRAMP IN THE LEGS.—Stretch out the heel of the foot as far as possible, at the same time drawing up the toes. This will often stop a fit of cramp after it has commenced, and will prevent it attacking those who are subject thereto. CRAMP (WRITERS’).—See Writers’ Cramp. CRAPE (BLACK), To Renovate.—Dissolve a little glue in a mixture of skimmed milk and water ; make it scalding hot, apply with a brush; clap it between a cloth, and pull it dry, like fine muslin. This will make rusty crape look like new. CRAYFISH, To Choose.—When fresh a certain amount of muscular motion in the claws may be excited by pressing the eyes of the fish, and when boiled the tail preserves its elasticity, which is lost as soon as it gets stale. Crayfish is good only when it does not spawn, for at that time it is nauseously bitter. CRAYFISH, To Cook.—Wash the fish in several waters. Put into a stew-pan a few slices of onion and carrot, a little parsley, thyme, two cloves, a bay leaf, salt, pepper, a glassful of vinegar, and some water. Let the whole stew for one hour ; strain, put the fish into the liquor, and boil