IOI by 365 will give the interest in shillings at five per cent. The other rate* of interest are easily calculated by adding to, or deducting from, the five per cent, product. Thus, two-and-a-half per cent, would be just the half of the product of the five per cent. ; three per cent, would be six-tenths; three-and-a-half per cent, seven-tenths, and four per cent, four-fifths ; while six per cent, requires six-fifths to be added, six-and-a-quarter one-fourth, seven-and-a-half one half, and so on. IODINE LOTION.—Tincture of iodine, half a fluid ounce; iodide of iron, twelve grains ; chloride of antimony, half an ounce. Mix, and apply with a camel's hair brush. Used for corns and swellings in the neck. IODINE WASH.—Dissolve three grains of iodine in two table- spoonfuls of spirits of wine, then add to it a pint of water. Used for scrofulous sores. IRISES.—Sow in a light sandy soil, allowing six or seven inches every way between the bulbs. They should be taken up every second or third year, as soon as the foliage is withered, laid aside till sufficiently dry to remove the offsets, and replanted in September. IRISH STEW.—Carve into cutlets about three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the chine bone, and trim the fat; season the cutlets well with pepper and salt, and put them with the bones into a stew-pan, just covering them with cold water; stew gently for half an hour, remove from the fire, skim the fat from the gravy, and then return it with the chops into the stew-pan ; add six or eight potatoes cut into halves, four onions sliced, a couple of turnips, and a pint and a half of stock or water ; cover the stew-pan, and simmer gently for two hours. Serve with the potatoes in the centre of the dish, the cutlets arranged all round, and with the onions and gravy poured over. IRON AND STEEL, To Clean.—Mix into a paste two parts fine emery powder and one part soft soap. Rub the polished iron or steel with the mixture, and finish off with whiting and wash-leather. IRON AND STEEL, To Preserve from Rust. See Rust. IRON AND STEEL, To Remove Rust from. See Rust. IRON (CAST), To Render it Less Brittle.—This maybe accom- plished by putting the iron into a very hot furnace, and allowing it gradu- ally to grow cold. IRON CEMENT, for Stopping Leaks. See Cement To Unite Iron. IRON (CORROSION OF), To Prevent.—A writer in a scientific journal gives the following:—“I invite all parties interested in preventing the corrosion of iron to give the following composition a trial. It will be found an excellent substitute for copper sheathing. Melted pitch, six pounds ; linseed oil, half a pound; brick dust, five ounces ; finely pulver- ised iron filings, five ounces ; ashes, six ounces. Mix. Apply one coat, and when dry apply a second. If any rough timber is coated with this composition (taking care previously to wash it over with glue), it will resist the effects of fire for upwards of five hours !" IRON, Ebony Black for.—Mix four ounces of iron rust with a gallon of strong vinegar ; let it stand for a week, and then add a pound of dry lampblack and three-quarters of a pound of copperas, and stir it occasionally for a couple of days. Lay five or six coats upon the iron with a sponge, allowing each to dry between. Polish with linseed oil and a soft woollen rag. IRON, HORNS, OR HOOFS, To Mend.—Melt over a slow fire in a tin-lined vessel, one part of coarsely-powdered gum-ammoniac and two parts of gutta percha cut into pieces the size of a hazel nut, stirring