96 till the leaves have withered, then remove them from the earth, cut off the tops, and keep in a dry place till the end of September, when they may again be planted ready for the following spring. If planted in the open they must be well protected from the frost. When grown in pots they should be set in clumps of three or four, as this method not only gives a good display of colours, but it allows the plants to strike their roots vertically. HYDRANGEA, The Cultivation of.—These handsome shrubs, bearing immense balls of flowers, like a light soil, with which is incorporated a good amount of sand. If kept in pots the mould needs renewing every year. Loose straw should be strewn over the bushes in winter, so as to protect the shoots from frost ; but the plants will flourish best where the winters are mild and moist, such as are experienced at some of our seaside places. They will strike freely from cuttings if these are supplied abundantly with water. HYDROGEN GAS, To Make.—Put some granulated zinc into a bottle, and pour over it a mixture of one part sulphuric acid and five parts water. The gas may be collected by means of a pipe passing through the cork and leading to a pneumatic bladder. HYDROPHOBIA.—See Dogs, Remedies for Bites from. HYSSOP, To Grow.—This hardy aromatic plant may be raised either from seed sown in spring, by slips and cuttings of the young shoots, taken in April, May, and June, or by bottom off-sets, planted six to twelve inches apart, or on an edging. HYSTERICS.—The German domestic remedy for hysteria is to take the fresh and finely-powdered fruit of the caraway plant, mix them with a small quantity of ginger and salt, spread them on bread and butter, and partake of them twice daily, in the morning and just before bed-time. A fit of hysterics may be prevented by the administration of thirty drops of laudanum and as many of ether. ICE IN SUMMER, To Procure.—Nearly fill a half gallon bottle with water, add an ounce of rectified nitre, cork closely, and let it down into a deep well of water for about four hours, by which time the liquid will be completely frozen. The bottle must be broken to procure the block of ice. ICE PUDDING, An Economical.—Moisten three ounces of rice flour with milk and pour on a pint of boiling milk ; pour it into a saucepan, and stir till it boils. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with three ounces of pounded white sugar. Pour the boiling rice and milk amongst the eggs, stirring all the time. When cold, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add an ounce of citron peel, chopped very fine. Mix all together, add any flavouring liked, and put it into the freezer. Press into a mould, or serve in ice-pails. ICE, The Capacity of.—Ice two inches thick will bear infantry ; four inches, cavalry with light guns ; six inches, heavy field guns ; and eight inches, heavy siege guns with one thousand pounds weight to the square inch. INDIAN CHUNAM for Outer Walls.—Slake with water equal quantities of lime, pit-sand, and powdered flint; beat well together, and let the mixture stand for three or four days, then moisten and mix it with oil, mucilage, the whites of eggs, and butter-milk, and apply as quickly as possible. INDIAN PUDDING.—Wash and dry six or eight ounces of rice, put it into a deep dish and moisten it with milk ; set it in a gentle oven ; add milk at intervals, in small quantities, until the grain is swollen to its full size, and is tender, but dry ; then mix with it two dessert-spoonfuls of