»4 seasoning of sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, spice, and salt, a little sage may be added if approved of. Wrap it in a cloth and tie it securely with broad tape. Boil it gently for five or six hours ; remove it from the fire, and while still hot place a weight upon it (without removing the tapes) so as to keep it in shape. BEEF COLLOPS.—Cut thin slices of beef from any part that is tender, divide them into pieces about three inches long, beat them flat, flour them, and fry them quickly in butter for two or three minutes ; then lay them in a stew-pan and cover with brown gravy ; add half an eschalot ininced fine, a bit of butter rolled in flour to thicken, and a little pepper and salt. Stew, without suffering it to boil, and serve very hot in a tureen with pickles. BEEF GRAVY, To Make.—Take a piece of the neck or cheek of beef, and having cut it into pieces an inch square, add some flour to it. Mix it well with the meat, put into a saucepan, cover with water, add an onion, a little allspice, pepper, and salt ; let it boil, then skim it, throw in some bread raspings, and stew till it becomes rich. Strain, and serve in a sauceboat. BEEF, HAMS, AND TONGUES, Pickle for.—Bay salt, two pounds and a half; saltpetre, two ounces; coarse brown sugar, one pound ; spring water, one gallon. This pickle may be used several times by each time adding to it a quart of water and two pounds of common salt, and boiling it for fifteen minutes, removing every particle of scum as it forms, so that it may be as clear as possible. BEEF HEART.—Wash it carefully; stuff it with sweet herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and suet ; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy and currant jelly sauce. BEEF KIDNEYS (FRIED).—Remove the fat and the skin from the kidney, cut it into moderately thin slices, and sprinkle them with salt, grated nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, and also with parsley and eschalot chopped very fine. Fry them over a brisk fire until brown on both sides, then gradually pour into the pan a cup of good gravy, and just as it boils throw in a spoonful of lemon juice with a piece of butter the size of a nut. Pour the whole into a dish garnished with toasted bread cut into dice or other fanciful shapes. BEEF KIDNEYS, (STEWED).—Cut a couple of kidneys into slices, and put them into a stew-pan w'ith two ounces of butter and four or five finely-sliced onions ; season with pepper and salt, and stew for one hour. Then add a little good gravy, and stew it five minutes longer, strain, thicken with butter and flour, and serve the kidneys on the dish with the gravy. BEEF (MINCED).—Cold, underdone meat is generally employed for this purpose. Shred the meat fine with a portion of the fat ; put it into a small stew-pan with a little water, and season with pepper and salt. Boil till the onion is soft, then add a cupful of good beef gravy and a large spoonful of shalot vinegar ; when nearly boiling again pour it on to a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toast. BEEF OLIVES.—For these use the underdone parts of beef, either roast or boiled. Cut the meat into slices about half an inch thick ; chop up finely an eschalot, mix it with bread crumbs, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cover the slices with the mixture ; roll up the meat and secure it with skewers ; put into a stew-pan, cover with gravy mixed with water, and stew gently till tender. Serve with beef gravy. BEEF PALATES.—Simmer till they peel, then put them in a rich gravy, stew very tender, and season with salt, cayenne pepper, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. BEEF (POTTED).—Take some lean beef, rub it with a mixture