done, carefully remove the top crust, take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and add a little rich gravy. RABBIT (ROAST).—Let the rabbit hang in its skin for four or five days, if the weather permits ; skin it, and make a strong seasoning of cayenne, black pepper, allspice, nutmeg, and a wineglassful of vinegar ; let the rabbit remain in this pickle for a day, turning and rubbing it fre- quently. Stuff it with the liver, scalded and minced, sweet herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and suet, seasoned to taste; truss, and hang it before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes. Serve with a good gravy and currant jelly. The rabbit may also be roasted without being stuffed, and served with the liver finely minced and mixed with melted butter. RABBIT SOUP.—Simmer for one hour in two quarts of hot water, one pound of pickled pork, two onions and a turnip ; then add the rabbit and a pint of cold water, and let the whole simmer for another hour ; after which remove the rabbit, pork, and vegetables, and having cut off the legs, shoulders, and as much of the meat as possible from the back, put it all aside to make a stew or fricassee next day. Fry two sliced onions till they are moderately brown, and put them with the head and bones of the rabbit into the broth ; simmer for two hours, occasionally skimming the surface of the soup. Thicken with cornflour mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and if not salt enough already add sufficient to season it to taste. Strain through a hair sieve, return it to the stew-pan for a few minutes, and serve hot. RABBITS, To Choose.—When the rabbit is young its claws are smooth and fur soft ; when old its claws are rough and grey hairs are inter- mixed with the others. Its freshness may be known by the whiteness and dryness of the flesh, which becomes flexible and of a bluish tint when stale. RABBITS, To Feed and House.—A varied diet is best suited to the taste and habits of these quadrupeds. Give the stalks and leaves of chicory, carrots, dandelion, plantain, groundsel, sow-thistle, parsley, en- dive, lettuce, celery tops, and cabbage, with bran and oats. Vegetables in a wet state should not be put near them, and green food should not be too abundantly supplied. The hutch should be kept perfectly clean, and be made of the largest dimensions possible, as the more room they have to frolic about, the more likely they are to thrive and be happy and healthy. RADISHES, To Grow.—These are raised by several different sowings, at three or four weeks interval, from February to June. A late sowing in August will give a winter crop ; the black Spanish being most suitable for this purpose. RAIN AND SUN PROOF* To Render Articles.—Blinds, umbrellas, light coats, covers to hats, &c., may be rendered both sun proof and water proof in the following manner :—Boil well together two pounds of turpentine, one pound of litharge in powder, and} two or three pounds of linseed oil. Brush the composition evenly over the articles, and let it dry in the sun. RAISINS, To Prepare.—Tie two or three bunches of ripe grapes together while yet on the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood- ashes to which has been added a little of the oil of olives ; let them remain on the vine after this for three or four days, separated by sticks placed in a horizontal position, then remove them from the tree and dry in the sun. RANUNCULUS.—These plants are all hardy and easy of cultiva- tion. They require a light loamy soil, enriched with leaf mould and materials from a spent hot-bed. They may be multiplied by tubers or by seed. Many persons plant the tubers during January or February, but most gardeners are of opinion that October is the best time, as the small tubers are likely to be weakened by remaining too long above ground. Tha