23 BREASTS (STUBBORN), To Relieve.—Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in two ounces of olive oil. Rub the lotion gently upon the tender part ; it will prove very soothing. BREASTS, To Soften Hard Swellings of the.—Roast a turnip till soft, then mash it, mix it with a little sweet oil, put it between warm flannel, and apply as hot as can be borne, changing the poultice twice a day. BREATH (OFFENSIVE), Lozenges for.—Gum kino, half an ounce; catechu, one ounce; white sugar, three ounces ; orris powder, three-quarters of an ounce. Make into a paste with mucilage, and add a drop of neroli. BREATH (OFFENSIVE), To Purify.—Take the first thing in the morning from six to ten drops of the concentrated solution of potash mixed in a wineglassful of pure water.—See also Onions, To Remove the Smell of. BREATH (SHORT), To Relieve.—Vitriolated spirits of ether, one ounce ; camphor, twelve grains. Of these make a solution, and take a spoonful during the paroxysm. It gives instant relief. BREECHES (WHITE), Paste for.—Put some pipeclay into an earthen vessel with sufficient water to form a thick paste, adding likewise a little powdered blue. When required to use the paste, get enough boiled milk to rub on the top of the pipeclay till it becomes of the thickness of cream. Lay it evenly on the breeches, and turn them inside out to dry. BRIMSTONE AND TREACLE.—Sulphur, one ounce and a half; cream of tartar, half an ounce ; treacle, half a pound. Mix. From a teaspoonful to a dessert-spoonful to be given early in the morning, three times a week. BRITANNIA METAL, To Clean.—Articles made of this metal are most readily cleaned by washing them with a brush dipped in hot soap-suds into which has been poured a teaspoonful of ammonia, then rinsing them in hot water, wiping dry with a soft cloth, and polishing with a chamois leather. If very dirty they may be rubbed with rotten-stone and water, then with a mixture of oil and whiting, and lastly with dry whiting. BROCCOLI,To Grow.—Sow some seed about the first week in April and more in the middle of May ; plant out in summer in best rich ground, in rows, two or three feet asunder. A few of the Cape varieties may be sown in June. These latter will produce a supply from October to Christ- mas. The same sort sown in July and August will yield a supply in April and May. Many of the White Broccoli, if sown at three different times, from the first week in June to the last, will give a supply from Michaelmas to Christmas ; the later sorts will be in perfection from February to April from seed sown the preceding year. BROCCOLI, To Pickle.—Proceed in precisely the same manner as is hereafter directed for cauliflowers. BRONCHIAL AFFECTIONS, To Relieve.—Persons suffering from bronchitis will find great relief by inhaling the steam of hot water into which has been dropped a little ether, or a spoonful of ordinary medicine for relieving the complaint. Much benefit will also be experienced by keeping a kettle of water constantly boiling over the fire and allowing the steam to flow freely into the room. A cheap and easy method of obtaining this result is by attaching a foot of tin tubing to the spout of the kettle. BRONZE, To Renovate and Re-colour.—Free the articles from all dust and grease and apply with a cloth a mixture of one part of muriatic acid and two parts of water. When dry, polish with sweet oil. BRONZING FOR ZINC OR TIN CASTINGS.—Dissolve one ounce of sulphate of iron and one ounce of sulphate of copper in a pint of water ; apply to the surfaces of the articles and let them dry. Then dis-