HOPS, Tincture of.—Macerate two ounces of hops in half a pint of proof spirits. Is good for “ after-pains ” and inflammation of the bowels. Dose : From half to one dram. HOREHOUND CANDY.—Boil a pound and a half of sugar in half a pint of water till candied, then stir in a little dried horehound. Pour it on to a marble slab or buttered paper, let it cool, and cut it into squares. HOREHOUND SYRUP, for Consumption of the Lungs.—Infuse a poppy-head and one ounce of dried horehound for two days in a quartern of spirits and the same amount of boiling water ; strain, and add two ounces of honey and a teaspoonful of essence of lemon. HORN, to Soften.—Put into a quart of water one pound of wood ashes and two pounds of quicklime ; boil to one-third of the quantity, then dip in a feather ; if, on drawing it out, the plume should come off, it is a proof that it is boiled enough ; if not, boil longer. Let it settle, filter it off, and put shavings of horn into the liquor. Let them soak for three days; then, having anointed the hands with oil, work the whole into a mass and mould it into the desired form. HORN, To Stain. See Ivory, Horn, and Bone. HORSES, Colic or Gripes in.—Give in a little warm gruel a pint and a half of linseed oil and an ounce and a half of laudanum. Or, take half a dram of powdered opium, two drams of camphor, two drams of Castile soap, one dram of ginger, and one dram of cayenne pepper. Mix with a little treacle, roll into a ball, adding five or six drops of croton oil. HORSES, Coughs of.—Colds and coughs are best treated with cold bran mashes, with half a pound of linseed, and one ounce of saltpetre each mash. Or, give one-third of a tumbler of cod-liver oil night and morning. HORSES’ EYES, To Clear.—Sandiver (axungia vitri), or salt of glass, is generally used by farriers for this purpose. HORSES’ FEET, To Prevent “Interfering” of.—Make the inner half, or halves, of the shoe, or shoes, one-eighth of an inch thicker than the outer half, or halves, and set them even with the face of the hoof. They will then travel with their feet far enough apart not to cut themselves when they slip. HORSES, Laxative Powder for.—Pound together four ounces of crocus of antimony, four ounces of nitre, four ounces of sulphur, and four ounces of cream of tartar. A tablespoonful of the mixture to be given night and morning three or four days in succession in a mash of scalded bran. It is especially good for horses kept on dry food, and for stallions during spring. HORSES, Purge for.—To one ounce of aloes add two drams of rhubarb, five drops of oil of peppermint, and sufficient honey to work it up into a ball. HORSES, Splint and Spavin in.—A splint is a bony excrescence growing a little under the knee. It may be cured in the following manner, but results must not be too speedily looked for :—Cut the hair close, and beat the splint gently till it becomes hot to the touch, then rub on some ointment made by thoroughly mixing one ounce of mercurial ointment with two drams of Spanish flies. A little of the ointment to be applied once a week till the excrescence is removed. The spavin is of the same nature and grows on the instep bone, close to the hough. It may be cured in the same manner as the splint ; but should this fail, burn the part, and turn the animal out to grass for two or three months.