92 HERBS, To Propagate.—Parsley and fennel are best raised from seed ; sage, rue, and rosemary from slips ; marjoram, thyme, basil, and balm by division of the roots. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Bake. Remove the heads and guts, cut off the tails, and lay them in a disn ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and strew over them some finely chopped garlic, parsley, and thyme ; cover them with vinegar, add a bay leaf, tie them over, and bake in a slow oven for one hour. They make a very agreeable dish either hot or cold. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Boil.—Wash them well and wipe them with a cloth dipped in vinegar ; pass the tails through the gills and put them into boiling water with a little salt ; boil gently for ten or twelve minutes ; garnish with parsley, and serve with melted butter, to which has been added a tablespoonful of chili vinegar and the same quantity of ketchup. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Broil.—Soak the fish for ten minutes in vinegar and water, to which has been added a little salt ; then rub the gridiron with suet to prevent them sticking, and broil over a clear fire. Garnish the dish with parsley, and serve with lemon juice. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Fry.—Slice some onions and fry them ; when done cover them up and put over a saucepan of boiling water. Put the fish on to fry, and when done serve in the middle of a dish with the onions placed round. Those who are very partial to the taste of onion fry the vegetable and fish together. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Pot.—Pick out about eighteen or twenty fine large fish, and rub them with a mixture of two ounces of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of allspice, each reduced to a fine powder, lay them by for about eight hours, then wipe off the spice, and put them into a buttered pan ; season with one ounce each of mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and salt, one clove, and a couple of bay leaves ; cover with butter, and bake slowly for three hours. Let them cool, drain off the liquor, put the fish in pots, and cover to the depth of half an inch in clarified butter, just warm enough to run. They will be ready for table in two or three days. HERRINGS (RED), To Dress.—Soak them for half an hour in cold water, then lay them in milk for a couple of hours ; when taken out, split them down the back, rub them with melted butter, to which has previously been added the yolk of an egg, a bay leaf, nutmeg, and pepper, and broil over a slow fire. Serve with lemon. HERRINGS, To Choose.—When fresh herrings are good the flesh is firm, the eyes full, the gills red, and the scales bright. Those with soft roes are the most delicate. In selecting red herrings choose those which are large and firm, with full roes, and having a yellow cast on the skin. HESPERIS, OR ROCKET, To Propagate. — This flower flourishes best in a deep, rich, strong loam, or clayey soil, and may be in- creased by dividing the stools annually, shifting the plant to a different position each season. It may also be multiplied by means of cuttings. HICCOUGH, To Relieve.—Hiccough may be relieved by the sudden application of cold, as by eating a piece of ice, or drinking cold water. Holding the breath will also cause this unpleasant convulsive sort of cough to pass off. Should it prove obstinate, put three drops of oil of cinnamon on a piece of sugar, hold it in the mouth till it dissolves, then gently swallow it. HOARSENESS (SUDDEN), To Remove.—Take a teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in a wineglassful of water. Or a little salt prunella dissolved slowly in the mouth, or eating a piece of anchovy will generally remove it.