132 about seventy-five degrees, get the spawn and break the cakes into small pieces, put them all over the bed, even with the surface, about nine inches apart, pat them down gently, and cover with a couple of inches of good garden soil, covering it with a little litter, so as to keep it at a uniform temperature. When the spawn has run through the bed (five or six weeks after planting), sprinkle it with tepid water, enoughjto moisten the earth, but not the manure, and when the surface becomes dry sprinkle again in the same manner. MUSHROOMS (STEWED).—Peel and scrape the inside of flaps and rub the buttons with a piece of flannel and salt; sprinkle salt over them, and put them into a saucepan with some whole pepper ; simmer over a slow fire, and when done stir in a little butter and flour and a spoon- ful or two of cream ; boil together for a moment or two, and serve with sippets of toast. MUSHROOMS, To Distinguish from Poisonous Fungi.— The colour, shape, and texture of these vegetables cannot be relied on as a test of their wholesomeness, it is necessary, therefore, to have recourse to other expedients, and the following remarks may be useful in the endeavour to distinguish true mushrooms from poisonous fungi resembling them in ap- pearance :—The true mushroom grows in dry pastures and waste lands, whereas the false kind are found growing in clusters in humid places, on the stumps of trees, and on animal matter undergoing putrefaction. The true mushroom is pleasant in flavour and smell, while the false fungus has an astringent, styptic, and disagreeable taste. The safi* kinds have gene- rally a compact, brittle texture ; the unwholesome specimens are moist on the surface. The true mushroom, again, has white flesh, the stem is white, solid, and cylindrical, the gills are of a pinky-red, changing to a liver colour ; the false fungus turns blue when cut, is of a pale or sulphur yellow, bright blood-red, or a greenish colour. Rut perhaps the safest test which can be applied is to sprinkle a little salt on the gills or spongy parts ; if they turn black they are fit for food, while if they become yellow they are poisonous. MUSHROOMS, To Preserve for Winter Use.—Pick and cutoff the stalks, wipe them clean, removing the brown portion from the large ones, peel off the skin, and lay them in a cool oven. When dry, put them in paper bags and keep them in a dry place. Although they will appear somewhat shrivelled, they will swell to their proper size when simmered in gravy. MUSSEL SOUP.—Put the mussels into a saucepan, boil them till they open, take them from the shells, and put them in a stew-pan with butter rolled in flour, parsley, and sweet herbs ; add some rich gravy— about a pint and a half to each quart of mussels—simmer till reduced to one half, and serve hot with toasted bread cut into sippets. MUSSELS (PICKLED).—Put the mussels into a pan after they are washed and picked free from weed, and cover them with boiling water ; let stand till cold, then take them out of their shells, put them into a jar, or wide-mouthed bottle, fill the jar with vinegar, add some whole pepper and a capsicum, and let them stand till the following day. Serve cold. MUSSELS, To Ascertain if Wholesome.—Boil a silver fork or spoon in the water with the fish. When the mussels are done, examine the silver, if bright they are wholesome, if black or of a dark hue they are poisonous. MUSTARD (GERMAN).—To two tablespoonfuls of mustard add one tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of caster sugar, a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, the juice of a small onion (pressed through a lemon squeezer), and one tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix the whole with vinegar.