i8o for a quarter of an hour, then add a little vinegar to the water, and boil the fish till it is done. Garnish with horse-radish, and serve with cockle or shrimp sauce. SKELETON LEAVES, To Prepare.—Put the fresh leaves in a pan of water, and leave them to soak for six or eight weeks without changing the water. When soaked enough, put each leaf in an earthen- ware plate, with sufficient water to cover it, and brush it gently with a camel’s-hair pencil until the skin and pulp separate from the fibres. Pour fresh water on the plate, to wash the skeleton free from pulp, and then lay it on blotting-paper to dry. To get them white, put them for an hour or two in a solution of chloride of lime, made by pouring three quarts of water on a quarter of a pound of chloride of lime ; rinse the specimens with clear water, and dry them between blotting-paper. The following is a more expeditious method :—Take a tablespoonful of liquid chloride of lime, and mix it with a quart of spring water ; soak the leaves and seed vessels in this for four or five hours, according to their texture; then take them out, well wash them in a basin of water, and leave them to dry by exposing to light and air. Or soak them in a weak solution of sulphuric acid, or in strong vinegar, until the body of the leaves is eaten away and only the fibres remain. SKIN (ERUPTIONS OF THE), Lotion for.—Milk of bitter almonds, seven ounces ; bichloride of mercury, four grains, and spirits of rosemary, one ounce. Bathe the face or other part where the eruption has broken out three times a day, and keep the bowels well open. SKIN, To Soften.—Put a tablespoonful of flour of sulphur into a teacupful of milk. Let it stand for six or seven hours, and rub the milk into the hands, &c., before washing, taking care not to disturb the sulphur. A wineglassful is quite sufficient to make at one time, as it should never be used after it has stood for more than eight or ten hours. SKIN (WHITE), To Procure a.—Take half a wineglassful of new milk, and add thereto a couple of drops of tincture of benzoin, and enough rice flour to form a paste. Put it on at night, and in the morning wash in salt and water. The following is also commonly used : To a pint of water add a pound of oatmeal. Boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain off the liquid, and use it for bathing. At night apply a little cold cream. SKINS WITH THE HAIR ON, To Preserve.—Soak the skin in water for one day, then clean it well of fat; next take alum, three pounds ; rock salt, four ounces ; dissolve in as much water as will cover the skin ; boil the solution, and when lukewarm put in the skin, and soak it for four days, working it well with the hands several times ; take it out and dry in a warm place, but not in the sun. Boil up the water again, repeating the same process with the skin ; wash it well, and beat it with a wooden mallet till quite soft, after which dry it in the shade, rubbing between the hands at intervals. By this means it will be as soft and pliable as doeskin. SKYLARKS.—The male bird is distinguished by the size of his body, the largeness of his eye, the length of his claws, the white in his tail, and the mode of erecting his crest. When kept in confinement the top of the cage should be well padded, so that the bird does not injure itself in its natural attempt to soar while singing. They are generally fed with a little hemp seed, meal worms, elder and other berries, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a paste made as follows:—Soak some stale bread in water, squeeze it dry, and pour over it some boiled milk, then add two- thirds of its bulk of barley or wheat meal. The paste should not be kept longer than two days.