211 When it is not desirable to disturb the plant, the worm may be brought to the surface by gently watering with lime water. WRINKLES, OR RELAXED SKIN, Ointment for.—To ten grains of camphor add two ounces of prepared lard and one fluid dram of rectified spirits of wine. Apply a little of the ointment at night, previously washing the face, and strengthen the body by means of tonics and nourishing diet. Bathing the parts where the wrinkles appear with alum and water will also tighten the skin. WRITERS’ CRAMP.—Rest awhile from the use of the pen, and in the interval rub the hand and arm with camphor and soap liniment. YEAST, A Good Domestic.—Boil for one hour in two gallons of water one pound of best white flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt. When milk-warm, bottle and cork it close. It will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this yeast will make eighteen pounds of bread. YEAST (BAKERS’).—Boil for one hour one ounce of hops in nine pints of water ; let the liquor get milk-warm, then add three pounds and a half of mashed potatoes, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of carbonate of soda, a quarter of an ounce of spirits of wine, half a pound of flour, and a gill of brewer’s yeast to work it. Cover and stand it in a warm place, but not too near to the fire. YEAST (BREWERS’), To Preserve.—Fill a bottle with the thick portion of brewers’ yeast, on the top of which pour about half an inch deep of pure olive oil. Tie over with a piece of bladder, and in order to prevent explosion, make a hole with a pin through the bladder. Store in a cold place. Another way:—Get the yeast fresh from the brewery, whisk it until it becomes thin, then paint it on a clean, smooth board till about half an inch thick ; dry it slowly in a warm current of air, sprinkling a layer of salt over it before it becomes quite dry. A veneer of yeast of from two to three inches thick may be made in this way, allowing each coat to dry before another is painted on. When quite dry strip the coating off the board and preserve it in air-tight tins. When required for use, cut a piece off and lay it in warm water till dissolved. YEAST (GERMAN), To Imitate.—Put ordinary beer yeast into a close canvas bag, squeeze out the moisture gently and gradually until the residue acquires the consistence of cheese, then put it into waxed cloths till required for use. YEAST (POTATO).—Boil some nice mealy potatoes, beat them tc a mash, and mix them with hot water till of the consistence of paste. To each pound of the vegetable add two ounces of treacle ; stir together and let it stand till it is only just warm, then add two tablespoonfuls of yeast to each pound of potatoes ; cover it up and stand it before the fire till fermentation ceases. It will be fit for use on the day following. ZINCING.—Copper and brass vessels may be covered with a firmly adherent layer of pure zinc by boiling them in a solution of chloride of zinc, pure zinc turnings being at the same time present in considerable excess. ZINC WORK, To Re-Galvanize.—Steep the article in dilute sulphuric acid until all the old zinc is removed ; scour off the rust with sand and hot water, and dip first in a solution of sal ammoniac, and after- wards in molten zinc. A stratum of ground glass should be kept floating on the surface of the molten metal to prevent it evaporating in fumes. ZEPHYRANTHES.—There are several varieties of this pretty