134 until they are nicely browned, when, if not very thick, they will be done. MUTTON CHOPS (STEWED)—Put a couple of pounds of chops into a stew-pan ; rather more than cover them with cold water ; add two or three onions and some turnips. When nearly boiling, skim off the fat, cover the saucepan close, and let the chops simmer over a very slow fire until they are tender. They will take about three-quarters of an hour. Serve with the broth and vegetables. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MINUTE.—Season the cutlets with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and broil them over a brisk fire. Serve with strong veal gravy. In trimming the cutlets for this entrie leave a little of the fat upon them. MUTTON CUTLETS A LTTALIENNE.—Take somechops from the best part of the shoulder, sprinkle them on each side with pepper and salt, cover them lightly with yolk ol egg, dip them first in bread crumbs, then in melted butter, and lastly in more bread crumbs, and fry them in butter, over a very brisk fire, until they are of a good colour. Press out the fat between stout sugar paper ; glaze them lightly with egg, and spread over them some very thin Italian sauce. MUTTON CUTLETS EN HARICOT BRUN.—Cut some thick chops, take away the bones from the end, and fry them a nice colour in a little butter ; put into a stew-pan a bit of fresh butter and a spoonful of flour, and stir them with a wooden spoon till they are brown, then moisten with veal gravy. When the sauce boils throw in the chops with a few pieces of turnip and some parsley and green onions, and let the whole simmer gently until the turnips are done, skimming the sauce frequently. Remove the chops and lay them in a clean stew-pan. Cut some turnips into ornamental shapes, not too small; drain the sauce through a tammy over the chops and turnips, add a little sugar, and let it stew until the turnips are done, removing the scum as it rises. If no veal gravy be at hand, put a small piece of butter into an omelette-pan with a spoonful of caster sugar and the turnips ; fry them till they are of a fine colour, then moisten, and use as specified above. MUTTON (FILLET OF).—Cut a piece about five inches thick from the best end of a large leg, take out the bone, and in its place put a highly seasoned forcemeat; flour the piece, and roast it for two hours. Send to table with melted butter, or with rich brown gravy poured over it, and accompanied with currant jelly. MUTTON (HARICOT).—Cut into pieces one pound of neck of mutton, and fry it in an iron saucepan with a little dripping till it is brown, turning it frequently to prevent burning. While frying the meat, peel a couple of onions, cut in rings, and put them with the meat to fry. Peel a small turnip, and scrape and cut into small squares a carrot. Pour off the dripping from the meat ; add to the meat an ounce of flour, the carrot and turnip, pepper, and salt ; mix together, and add by degrees three-quarters of a pint of hot water ; stir until it boils, then let it simmer for an hour and a half, stirring it frequently. MUTTON (HASHED).—Cut the meat into thin slices, and put the bones into a saucepan with a bunch of thyme and parsley, an onion, pepper, and salt; strain the gravy which comes therefrom ; dip the pieces of meat in flour, lay them in the saucepan, and pour the gravy over them. Place the saucepan over the fire until the mutton is warm through, but do not allow it to boil as this would make the meat tough. A few potatoes mashed into the gravy gives it a superior flavour. When the mutton is hot enough, arrange it on a dish, pour the gravy over it, and place sippets of toast all round.