120 LINSEED TEA, For Coughs.—Take of linseed, two tablespoon- fuls ; liquorice, half an ounce ; boiling water, three pints. Infuse by the fire for three hours, strain, and when cool add a tablespoonful of lemon- juice, and sugar according to taste. LIP SALVE, A Good.—White wax, one ounce and a half; refined lard, two ounces ; spermaceti, half an ounce; sweet oil, one ounce ; alkanet root sliced, one dram ; balsam of Peru, two drams ; sugar, two teaspoon- fuls. Simmer all together, strain, and add six drops of otto of roses, or ten drops of essence of bergamot. LIPS (CHAPPED), To Heal.—Melt together one ounce of honey, half an ounce of litharge, and half an ounce of myrrh. When cool add a few drops of otto of roses or bergamot. Cork well. LIPS, To Remove Stains from the.—Stains left on the lips after eating fruit or nuts may be removed by the aid of diluted lemon juice or cold cream. LITHOGRAPHIC CRAYON.—White wax, three drams ; hard soap, three and a half drams ; finely-powdered lampblack, half a dram. Melt together over a slow fire for half an hour, stirring continually, and pour into moulds while in a liquid state. LIVER AND BACON.—Cut half a pound of bacon into thin slices, remove the rind, and fry it about four minutes, turning it to prevent burning ; put it on a dish and keep hot. Meanwhile, cut a pound of sheep’s or calf’s fiver into slices about an inch thick, cover them well with flour, and when the bacon is removed from the pan put the fiver in and fry it for about ten minutes, moving it occasionally to prevent burning ; fry on both sides, then put it in the middle of the dish. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a quarter of a spoonful of salt and a little pepper ; make it into a smooth paste with a gill of water, pour it into the pan, and stir it gently for five minutes. Strain the gravy over the liver, and serve very hot. LIVER (DISORDERED), For.—Take fifteen drops of dilute nitric acid and ten drops of the liquid extract of dandelion in half a wine- glass of compound infusion of gentian three times a day. Meat may be taken once a day, but wine, malt, spirits, and heavy suppers must be avoided. See also Dandelion (Extract of). LIVER (SLUGGISH), To Remedy a.—Boil two ounces of freshly-sliced dandelion root in two pints of water until the liquor is reduced to one pint, then add one ounce of compound tincture of horse-radish. Use occasionally. Or, take occasionally ten minims of tincture of rhubarb, ten grains of bicarbonate of soda, and twenty grains of Epsom salts, in a wineglassful of water. LOBELIA, The Cultivation of.—This pretty little blue flower, so much esteemed as a bedding plant, may be raised from seed sown in autumn, sheltered under a frame in winter, and planted out in the spring. There is also a scarlet variety, which is raised by off-sets, potted separately, and kept under a frame during winter. These latter require to be well supplied with water. LOBELIA TINCTURE, For Coughs.—Infuse for a week one ounce of powdered lobelia in a quart of whisky. Dose : A teaspoonful when the cough is troublesome. LOBELIA WATER, For Inflamed Eyes.—Pour half a pint of boiling water on to one ounce of lobelia leaves and capsules, add a gill of brandy, and infuse for seven days. LOBSTER (BOILED).—Put a large handful of salt into boil- ing water, make it boil up again, then throw in the lobster and boil from a quarter to three-quarters of an hour, according to size.