204 quarter of a pound of butter ; make into cakes with as little flour as pos- sible and a few carraway seeds, and bake in a quick oven. WILL, A Correct Form of a.—This is the last Will and Testament of me, A. B., of , in the county of , farmer (or as the case may be). I give, devise, and bequeath all the real and personal estate of which I shall be possessed or entitled at the time of my decease unto C. D. (naming the person in full) ; and I appoint the said G. D. sole executor of this my Will, and revoke all previous Wills by me at any time heretofore made. In witness whereof I hereunto set my hand this day of in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and . (Signature) A. B. Signed by the said testator, in our presence, who in his presence, and in the presence of each other, at the same time, sub- scribe our names as witnesses. E. F. (trade or profession^. G. H. (trade or profession). WILL, How to Make a.—The aid of a lawyer in making a Will is always desirable, but is not essential. Should the estate consist of real as well as personal property, i.e., of lands and houses as well as money and goods, or if the Will is to contain many provisions, a lawyer should always be employed. In cases where a lawyer is not employed, a person bent on making his own Will must not consider it as a light matter to be got rid of in a few minutes like writing a letter, but one requiring the most serious attention. It is only after one is dead and cannot explain his meaning that his Will can be open to dispute. It is the more necessary, therefore, to say what is meant in language of the utmost clearness, avoiding the use of any word or expression that seems to admit of another meaning than the one intended. It is better to be prolix, than to leave the smallest room for doubt or uncertainty, although the same name or work be re- peated over and over again. Sounding phrases and carefully rounded periods are entirely out of place. Avoid the use of what may be thought “legal terms " when the same thing may be expressed in plain language. If in writing the Will a mistake be made, it is better to re-write the whole. Before a Will is executed, that is, signed by the testator in presence of two witnesses, an alteration may be made by striking through the words with a pen, but opposite to such alteration the testator or witnesses should write their names or place their initials. Never scratch out a word with a knife or other instrument, and no alteration of any kind whatever must be made after the Will is executed. If the testator afterwards wishes to change the disposition of his estate, it is better to make a new Will revoking the old one, or to add a codicil to the first, which must be duly executed and attested in the same manner as the original Will. A Will should, if possible, be written on one side of a single sheet of paper. It is, of couse, impossible to give a form of Will which will suit under all circumstances, but a correct form of a simple Will is given above. WIND IN THE STOMACH, To Relieve Children Suffering from.—If the child be old enough to suck it down, give a couple of drops of strong peppermint water on a little sugar. For younger children, boil a piece of ginger or a few carraway seeds with their food. WINE (BLACKBERRY).—Gather a quantity of ripe black- berries, press out the juice, and let it stand, covered with a cloth, for thirty- six hours to ferment ; remove all the scum, and to each gallon of juice add three pounds of sugar and one quart of water ; let it stand uncovered for four-and-twenty hours ; strain ; put it into barrels, and after it has stood thus for six months bottle it off, using sound corks. The wine will improve with age.