i,38 skewer. Rub the inside of a mould with a little oil or butter, and lay soma of the almonds in beds, as thinly as possible ; take an oiled lemon to press the almonds with, but do it quickly, otherwise the almonds will get cool, when they cannot be worked so thin ; then put it into the oven to soften again. Nougat requires to be made light and to perfection. It may take any form desired. It is sometimes spread in a buttered baking dish, rolled out with an oiled rolling pin, put into the oven to soften, then cut into thin strips, and kept in a dry place till required. NOUILLES.—Lay flat on a table half a dozen spoonfuls of flour; make a hole in the middle, and put in a small pinch of salt, a little water to melt the salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; mix the whole, flatten the paste with a roller, about one inch thick, cut it into slices about an inch broad and about the same in length. Blanch them in boiling water to take oft' the flour that sticks around, and when they are blanched drain them and let them cool, that they may not stick together. Boil them in some good broth, and when done, drain and put them into bdchamel or other sauce. If served as an entremSt, send it to table accom- panied with scraped Parmesan cheese ; if for soup or fowl serve with the broth in which they were boiled. NOUILLES (CROQUETTES OF).—Prepare and blanch the nouilles as above directed ; take a pint of milk and boil it with a little salt, a small piece of sugar, and the peel of half a lemon ; when the milk boils, put the nouilles into it and reduce it till it becomes very thick ; put them into a cold dish, and when quite cold, shape them ; fry some, after dipping them in the whites of eggs, and crumble others ; frost and glaze them with sugar. NOYEAU, Quintessence of.—Dissolve one ounce of essential oil of bitter almonds in one pint of spirits of wine. A few drops is sufficient to perfume several pounds of pastry. NUTMEG, Essence of.—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of essential oil of nutmeg in a quartern of spirits of wine. Put into a bottle and cork closely. It may often be used where ground nutmeg would be unsuitable. OAK FLOORS, To Polish.—To any quantity of wax add benzo- line in the proportion of one glassful to every ounce of wax. Take a large paint brush, brush the mixture over the floor, and when it is dry (which will be in less than half an hour) polish with a brush. OAK GRAINING FOR WOOD.—Mix Vandyke brown and chrome yellow with one part of boiled linseed oil and two parts of turpen- tine. The addition of a small quantity of litharge may be added to cause it to dry quickly. When quite dry glaze the work with a mixture of Vandyke brown and burnt umber ; or lampblack may be substituted for the latter. Draw the glaze lengthways along the wood with a small brush, wet with sour beer. No oil is to be used in the glazing process. Ultimately give a coating of oak varnish. OAK VARNISH, Cheap.—Boil together sixty parts of linseed oil, two parts of litharge, and one part of white vitriol, each finely powdered. Or, dissolve three pounds and a half of clear pale rosin in one gallon of oil of turpentine. OAK WAINSCOTS, To Clean.—Boil together half a gallon of beer, half an ounce of beeswax, and a tablespoonful of sugar. Apply with a brush, and when dry polish with a cloth. OATMEAL GRUEL —Mix to a fine paste a tablespoonful of oatmeal and three or four times that quantity of water ; then add a pint of boiling milk, or milk and water, with a pinch of salt ; pour it into a saucepan, and boil gently for ten or twrelve minutes.