Or, to seven drams of spirits of nitre, add two drams of alum, in powder. Mix, and apply to the teeth. The pain may often be relieved, by applying with a tooth-brush two or three drops of oil of juniper, after washing the teeth. TOOTH POWDER (CAMPHORATED).—Take two drams of camphor, moisten it with a small quantity of spirit of wine, and beat it to a very fine powder; add a pound of prepared chalk, and mix the whole well together. TOOTH POWDER (QUININE).—Mix together two drams of rose pink, one dram of carbonate of magnesia, six grains of quinine, and a pound and a quarter of prepared chalk. TOOTH POWDERS.—Equal parts of powdered rhatany root and prepared chalk, used with a firm brush twice a day, will not only keep the teeth white, but will preserve them and arrest decay. Or, powder finely six ounces of cuttlefish, one ounce of cream of tartar, and half an ounce of orris root. Mix, and add fifteen drops of tincture of myrrh. TORTOISE-SHELL, To Give Horn the Appearance of.—Steam and press the horn into the desired shape, and with a small brush apply the following mixture in imitation of tortoise-shell:—Mix with strong soap- lees equal parts of litharge and quicklime. When dry brush it otf, and repeat the application a second and, if necessary, a third time. The parts to which it is desired to impart a reddish-brown colour, should be covered with a mixture of whiting and the stain. TORTOISE-SHELL, To Manipulate.—Cut the plates of the shell to the desired size, then make them soft by steeping them in boiling water, and press them in a mould to the form required. TORTOISE-SHELL, To Unite.—Thoroughly clean the edges and apply a hot iron above and beneath the juncture ; put a wet cloth on top of the iron to prevent it from scorching the shell, and press the edges together until the union is effected. TRACING PAPER, To Make a Good.—Put into a pot two ounces of Canada balsam, and half a pint of spirits of turpentine. Mix by a gentle heat, and with a soft brush spread it thinly over one side of white tissue paper. Hang each sheet separately on a line till dry. TRACING UPON MUSLIN, &c.—The cheapest and most effectual substance for tracing designs upon muslin, &c., is rose-pink, which may be obtained from colour shops at about eight pence per pound. It has also the further advantage of being easily washed out. TRAINS, To Read with Comfort in.—Hold a card or slip of paper immediately below the lines being read. This relieves the eye from the disturbance caused by the motion of the carriage, and consequently preserves the sight from injury. TRANSFER PAPER.—Make a strong solution of each of the following articles, separately, in hot water:—Starch, three ounces ; gum- arabic, one ounce ; alum, half an ounce; then mix, and apply it with a brush while still warm, to one side of sheets of paper. When dry, a second and a third coating may be given. Press it smooth. In using, moisten the back of it, and evenly press it on the stone, when a reversed copy of the drawing, &c., will be obtained. TREES, To Prevent Cattle Barking.—Take two parts cowdung and one part lime, mix them into a thick paste with a little water, and brush it over the stem of the trees. TREES, To Prevent Insects Climbing.—Mix together equal quantities of grease and chloride of lime, and place it in an unbroken ring round the trunk of the tree. No insect will pass over it.