ceases to emit smoke (being then free from the oily substance it originally contained) it is ready for immediate use. LAMPREYS (STEWED).—Clean the fish, remove the cartilage which passes down the back, season with cloves, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and pepper ; cover with good gravy, and stew till tender. After removing the fish, boil up the liquor with three or four anchovies and a little butter rubbed in flour; strain the gravy, and add the juice of a lemon, a little mustard, and a glass of port or sherry wine. Serve with horseradish and sippets of bread. LAMPREYS, To Dress.—Extract the bone, and rub the inside with finely-chopped sage, parsley, and mixed spices ; then bind the fish up with broad tape, and boil it for three-quarters of an hour in salt and water, with a couple of bay leaves. Add to the water in which the fish has been boiled a pint of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and some knotted marjoram or thyme ; boil it for twelve minutes ; untie the fish, cut it in good slices, and put it into the liquor. Send to table garnished with parsley. It improves both the fish and the liquor to let them stand ten or twelve hours before they are served. LARD, To Detect Adulteration of.—If adulteration be suspected, take a small portion of the lard and drop it upon a hot plate of iron; if mixed with other substances, it will, on evaporation, leave their deposit behind. LARK PIE.—Take the bones out of the birds. Line a pie-dish with a nice light crust, put in some farce, then the birds, and more farce on top to fill up the dish ; close the pie, leaving a hole at the top. Bake to a light brown colour; then remove the crust, pour in a little chicken broth, season highly, and serve. LARKS (BAKED).—Take a dozen fat larks, pick and bone them, season with salt and pepper, and stuff them with quenelles. Dish them tastefully, and put some of the quenelles into the dish with slices of fried bread. Cover the whole with layers of bacon, and bake for twenty minutes. Take off the bacon, drain the fat, and serve with Espagnole, well seasoned, and of a nice colour. LARKS (CASED).—Bone the birds, and stuff them with a fine farce. Have ready some paper cases dipped in warm oil. Give the larks a round shape, put into the cases some of the farce, and put the larks over ; stand them on a dish, cover with greased paper, and bake. When done, drain off the fat, and pour into the cases some Espagnole and lemon juice. Serve hot. LARKS (ROAST).—Melt a little butter, add to it the yolk of an egg, and brush it all over the birds, cover with bread crumbs, and hang before a clear fire ; baste frequently with butter and keep them floured ; before taking them up flour and salt them. Serve with brown bread crumbs. LARKSPUR, To Cultivate.—Besides various species of the tall larkspur, there is a dwarf variety suitable for beds, which may easily be cultivated by sowing the seed of the best-coloured double flowers during autumn and spring, in warm, dry, light, rich loam. The most convenient method is to sow the seed in narrow drills eight or nine inches apart, and when the plants have attained a sufficient size, thin them out to a distance of six inches. LAUDANUM, Antidote for.—Administer strong vinegar or the juice of lemons ; or give thirty grains of sulphate of zinc, with copious draughts of warm water, every quarter of an hour till sickness ensues. By no means let the patient sleep. LAVENDER (COMPOUND SPIRITS OF), for Lowness of Spirits.—Digest for ten day's a pound and a half of spints of lavender, a