”3 LAMB’S HEAD AND PLUCK, To Dress.—Wash well, remove the black part from the eyes and the gall from the liver. Take out the brains and blanch them by themselves. Put the head and pluck into warm water, and let it boil for fifteen minutes, then take it up, and when cool take out the tongue ; trim and score the head, smear with egg and bread crumbs, and brown it in an oven. Cut the liver, tongue, lights, and heart, into small dice, fry them in some good second stock to a nice light brown with a little chopped parsley and shalot; season with lemon, cayenne pepper, and salt; serve on the dish with the head, and garnish with the brains, egg, and fried bread crumbs. , LAMB’S PLUCK A LA PASCALINE.—Take the head, trotters, liver, lights, &c., bone the head and trotters, set them to disgorge, and blanch them. Cut into small dice one pound of suet and the same weight of bacon, and put them into a stew-pan with half a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, cloves, mace, allspice, two bay leaves, salt and pepper ; add sufficient water to cover the whole, the head, &c., included, and boil for one hour ; then put in the head, lights, &c. When thoroughly done drain, and cover with white Italian sauce thickened with the whites of eggs. LAMB (SHOULDER OF), Roast.—This is best cooked with the fore-quarter ; but if roasted by itself it will take about an hour to do. LAMB (SHOULDER OF), To Braise.—Take out the bone and fill up the gap with forcemeat; braise it over a slow fire for two hours, then take it up and glaze it. Serve with sorrel sauce under the joint. LAMB’S TAIL SOUP.—Cut four lambs’ tails into joints, boil them till they are quite tender. Sweat down a small slice of raw ham and veal, a few mushrooms, an onion, a little parsley, and a blade of mace; dry all well up with flour, and strain through a tammy ; season with cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon ; add a spoonful or two of cream, a glassiul of white wine, and the lambs’ tails, then stir the whole over the fire. LAMB STEAKS, To Dress Brown. —Dip them into the yolk of egg, and then into chopped parsley, seasom-d with grated lemon peel, nut- meg, pepper, and salt, and fry them over a quick fire ; then thicken some good gravy with butter and flour, add a spoonful of port wine and a dozen oysters ; boil the gravy up, and when hot serve. LAMB STEAKS, To Dress White.— Put them into equal quantities of milk and water with a little dried lemon peel, mace, pepper, and salt; stew until very tender. Afterwards put the steaks into veal gravy, with a cupful of cream and a little flour ; stir together till nice and hot, and just before dishing up put in a few white mushrooms. LAMB, To Choose.—In choosing the fore-quarter examine the large vein in the neck ; if it is of a bluish colour the meat is fresh, but if it is green it is stale. In the hind-quarter the kidney is the best test, as this has a slight smell when not perfectly fresh ; the knuckle should be nice and firm. Grass lamb is in season from Easter to Michaelmas, house lamb from Christmas to Lady Day. Both are favourite dishes, but perhaps the latter is more generally esteemed. LAMB, To Fricassee.—Cut the meat into pieces, put it into a sauce- pan, season with salt and pepper, mace, and nutmeg ; add a large piece of butter, a dozen oysters with their liquor, a bunch of sweet herbs, and enough water to cover the whole. Stew till the meat is tender, then dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour ; strain; add the yolks of two eggs and a spoonful of cream. Serve the gravy with the meat. LAMPBLACK FOR PAINTING, To Prepare.—Take some common lampblack ; put it over the fire on an iron plate, and when it