63 FEATHERS (RED), To Dye.—Dissolve a teaspoonful of cream of tartar in a quart of boiling water ; then add a tablespoonful of prepared cochineal and a few drops of muriate of tin. Immerse the feathers in the liquid till they have acquired the depth of colour desired. FEATHERS (ROSE COLOUR), To Dye.—Dip in a solution of safflower to which lemon juice has been added. FEATHERS (WHITE), To Clean.—Immerse them for a short time in naphtha or benzine, so as to free them from all dirt and grease, rinsing in a second vessel of the same, then thoroughly dry them by ex- posing them to the air. Make a bath of permanganate of potass, five parts to one thousand parts of water, to which add a solution of the same strength of Epsom salts (sulphate of magnesia), heat it to 140 degrees Fahrenheit, put in the feathers, and afterwards rinse in clear water, then pass them through very weak sulphuric acid and water. They may likewise be renovated by freeing them from dirt and grease as directed above, then exposing them to the vapour of burning sulphur in a moist atmosphere. FEATHERS (YELLOW), To Dye.—Put sufficient turmeric into boiling water to produce the desired shade, then steep the feathers therein. An orange hue may be obtained by adding to the turmeric a very small quantity of Scotch soda. FEATHERS, To Cleanse them from Animal Oil.—To every gallon of water add one pound of quicklime ; let it stand till the undis- solved lime is precipitated, then pour off the clear water for use. Put the feathers into a tub, cover them well with the lime water, and let them soak for three or four days ; after which lay them upon a sieve, and when they are thoroughly drained wash them in clean water ; and dry them upon nets, the meshes of which should be about the size of those used for cabbages. As they dry and fall through the net, collect them together, and finally beat the dust from them with a stick. FEET (COLD).—This complaint is caused by defective circula- tion. It may be relieved to a very large extent by taking a sharp walk in the morning, and by wearing an indiarubber bandage next the skin, passing it over the toes and bringing it round to the ankles. This keeps in the warmth engendered by the exercise. FEET, For Tender.—Wash them in warm salt water every night, and dust the inside of the stockings with oxide of zinc. FEET, Profuse Sweating of the.—In most cases warm brine baths used every night, alternated with baths of oak-bark decoction in which alum has been dissolved (one ounce to each quart), and washing with carbolic soap, will effect a cure. Another good plan is to wash the feet night and morning, and then swab them with a strong solution of sulphite of soda (one ounce to the pint of water). Strict attention should be paid to the general health, and specially to the bowels. Great relief may also be obtained by sprinkling the inside of the sock with finely-powdered boracic acid, or with equal quantities of oxide of zinc and powdered starch. .FELT HATS, Dye for.—Take a quarter of a pound of logwood chips and simmer them in a pint of rain-water till the liquor is reduced to half the quantity ; brush it while boiling hot over the hat, and hang out in the air to dry. The colour will be equal to new. FERMENTATION, To Check.—The fermentation of all liquors, preserves, syrups, &c., may be effectually checked by adding a small piece of sulphate of potass. ' 1 *