9 a stake into the ground to mark its position. The operation of planting may be carried on any time during March. Keep the beds free from weeds at all times. It will be three or four years from the time of planting before a full crop can be gathered, but if the beds are properly dressed every year in spring and autumn, they will produce good heads for twelve or fourteen years. ASPARAGUS, To Preserve.—Asparagus may be kept tolerably fresh by standing it perpendicularly in at most half an inch of water, but it must on no account be entirely immersed. It is, however, far better to use it when fresh gathered, as it is then a mild aperient. ASPIC.—Boil a handful of aromatic herbs, such as burnet, chervil, and tarragon, in white vinegar. When the vinegar is well scented, pour some chicken broth into a stew-pan ; season it well, and make it hot. Beat up the whites of four eggs, pour the vinegar on to them, and add to the broth ; keep stirring till the jelly gets white, when it will be near boiling point, then put it on the corner of the stove with a cover over it and a little fire on the top, and when quite clear and bright, strain it through a ba£- ASTHMA, To Relieve.—Best honey, two ounces ; castor oil, one ounce. Mix, and take a teaspoonful every night and morning. If the breathing be difficult the following will probably give relief:—To one ounce of spirits of wine, add a quarter of an ounce of balsam of tolu and the same quantity of ether. Put a teaspoonful into a quart of boiling water and inhale it twice a day. AURICULAS.—These old-established flowers are propagated by off-sets taken during the autumn or early spring, and placed in a compost of sandy loam, leaf mould, and thoroughly rotted cow-dung, or other light manures. They delight in shade, and will not bear much moisture. Where the atmosphere is naturally damp they require a light soil. AZALEAS, The Cultivation of.—The Chinese azaleas, of which there are numerous varieties, must all be treated as greenhouse plants. The American are more hardy, and will flourish in the open if planted in heath-mould mixed with sandy loam, and favoured with a sheltered posi- tion where they will be neither very wet nor very dry. They may be pro- pagated by off-sets, by layering, and by grafting, while numerous varieties are obtainable by hybridized seed. BACON, To Choose.—Select that which has a thin rind, firm fat slightly tinged with red, and tender, good coloured lean adhering to the bone. If yellow streaks are observed in it it should be rejected, as this is indicative of its being rusty. BACON, To Cure.—Remove the inside fat from a side of pork, rub it on both sides with salt, and hang it up for a day or two, that the blood may run from it. Then take a pound of bay-salt, six ounces of saltpetre, two pounds of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt; rub them well into the pork, turning it every day for a fortnight ; drain, smoke it over a wood fire for ten days, and hang it in a cool, dry place. BAKING POWDER, To Make.—Carbonate of soda, three- quarters of a pound ; tartaric acid, half a pound ; caster sugar, a quarter of a pound ; salt, two ounces. Mix well, and keep in well-corked bottles. Quantity, one teaspoonful to each pound of flour. Or, mix half a pound of white flour with a quarter of a pound of cream of tartar, a quarter of a pound of tartaric acid, and six ounces of bi- carbonate of soda ; pass through a sieve, and keep in a canister or bottle well corked. BAKING, To Prevent Burning while.—A cup of water set in the oven while baking will prevent meat, bread, pies, &c., from burning.