174 ketchup, and some made mustard. It is sometimes seasoned with clove and cayenne pepper. SAUCE (INDIAN), for Cold Meat.—Slice two heads of garlic, and add two tablespoonfuls of soy, the same amount of mushroom ketchup, three tablespoonfuls of walnut pickle, a dozen anchovies, and a quart of vinegar. Put it into a bottle, and let it stand near the fire for a month, shaking it up each day. SAUCE (LAMB).—Mix a little butter with crumbs of bread, and finely-shred parsley and shallots; add a cupful of good stock or beef gravy, season with pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon or orange. Boil the whole together for a few minutes. Some cooks add white wine in the same proportion as the stock. SAUCE (LIVER), for Fish.—Boil the liver of the fish, and pound it in a marble mortar with a little flour, stir it into some of the water in which the fish was boiled ; add a little parsley and essence of anchovy, and a few grains of cayenne ; boil them together for a moment or two, then rub it through a sieve, and serve. SAUCE (LOBSTER).—Cut a lobster into small dice; pound the spawn with a little butter and four anchovies, and rub through a hair sieve. Put the lobster into a stew-pan with half a pint of gravy and a bit of butter rolled in flour ; set over a slow fire and stir till it boils. If not thick enough add a little more flour, and boil again. Put the spawn in and simmer it, but do not let it boil, as it might spoil the colour of the sauce. Add a little lemon pickle or lemon juice. SAUCE (MAtTRE D’HOTEL), for Fish.—Put into a stew-pan some finely-chopped parsley, a small shallot, and a piece of butter ; sweat them over the fire, dry up the butter with flour, then add some good stock and a slice of ham ; boil together; strain through a tammy, and season with lemon, cayenne, salt, and a pinch of sugar. SAUCE (MINT).—Wash the mint, pick the leaves from the stalks and dry them, chop them finely, and put about two tablespoonfuls into a tureen with two teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, a pinch of salt, and a gill of vinegar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. It should be prepared two or three hours before it is wanted. SAUCE (MUSHROOM).—Make some rather thin cream sauce, add a few young mushrooms ; stew to the proper consistence, and serve. SAUCE (ONION).—Peel four large onions, put them into a stew- pan, cover with water, and boil till half done, then pour off the water and add fresh ; when boiled tender, strain off the second water, put the onions on a board, and chop finely. Melt in a saucepan one ounce of butter; mix in half an ounce of flour, and stir it over the fire for one minute ; then pour in gradually half a pint of milk, stir until it boils and thickens, add the onions with a saltspoonful of salt, simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. Time, about one hour. SAUCE (OYSTER), for Fish or Fowl.—Open two dozen oysters, and put them, with their liquor, into a stew-pan, adding a spoonful of water. When the liquor boils the oysters are done. Take them out w'ith a spoon, and drain them on a hair sieve. Let the liquor settle, and pour it off clear into another vessel. Beard the oysters, and wash them again in the liquor, to remove all grit and sand ; then put a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan with a spoonful or two of flour ; when the flour is fried a little, moisten it with the oyster liquor and a pint of cream ; let this boil fifteen minutes, and add to it a small bit of glaze. If the sauce be wanted for fish add a little essence of anchovies ; if for fowl omit it. SAUCE (OYSTER), made from Powder.—Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter, half a pint of milk, and half an ounce of oyster