126 avoid chills, draughts of cold air, &c. Keep the chest particularly well protected from cold ; let the patient inhale camphor every night and morning, and give half a wineglass of lemon juice twice a day until the eruption is quite gone. If there be much cough or difficulty of breathing, put a mustard and oatmeal poultice on the chest, and if needful give a small dose of purgative medicine. Let the food be grit gruel, boiled rice, arrowroot, and plain bread pudding, but avoid giving meat or animal broth for at least ten days after the eruption has dis- appeared. Administer plenty of weak warm drinks, such as barley-water, toast-and-water with a couple of slices of lemon in it, milk and water, apple tea, &c. Should the eruption suddenly disappear through exposure to cold air, put the patient at once up to the neck in warm water, and let him re- main in the bath for ten minutes, then dry, wrap in a blanket, and give a teaspoonful of castor oil in a tablespoonful of hot water. If this fails to bring out afresh the rash, seek medical aid at once, as inflammation of the lungs or stomach, dropsy, or blindness may possibly ensue. MEAT (POTTED).—Cut into dice a pound of rump steak, put it into a jar with three ounces of butter at the bottom, tie it down, stand it in a saucepan of cold water, and boil it over a good fire. When nearly done, season with cloves, cayenne, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and salt; boil till tender, and let it get cold. Wash and bone two anchovies and pound them with the meat ; put the meat back into the saucepan, stir in three ounces of oiled butter, warm up, colour with cochineal, press into small pots, and cover with melted fat. MEAT, To Choose.—Good meat is firm and elastic to the touch, moist but not wet, and, except in the case of veal, pork, and lamb, bright red in colour. It has also, if well fed, a somewhat marbled appearance from small layers of fat in the muscles. It leaves a fresh smell upon a skewer which is thrust into its centre and suddenly withdrawn. The meat juice should slightly redden litmus-paper, showing that it is faintly acid. The fat should contain no watery juice or jelly, and should be free from blood- stains ; the suet-fat should be hard and white. In salt meat the brine should not be sour. MEAT, To Preserve.—Meat may be kept sweet for several days in the height of summer by covering it lightly with bran, suspending some pieces of charcoal around it, and hanging it in an airy place. MEAT (TOUGH), To Render it Tender.—Fresh-killed meat and those parts that are naturally hard and tough may be made tender by soak- ing them for a few minutes in vinegar and water. MEDALS, To Take Impressions of.—Melt a little isinglass glue with brandy, and pour it thinly over the medal or coin, so as to wholly cover its surface. Let it remain on for a day or two, and when thoroughly dried and hardened, take it off. It will be as hard as a piece of glass and present a perfect impression of the medal. MEDICINE (OFFENSIVE), To Administer. — The most nauseous physic may be given to children without trouble by previously letting them suck a peppermint lozenge, a piece of alum, or a bit of orange peel. Many people make the mistake of giving a sweet afterwards to take away the disagreeable taste ; it is far better to destroy it in the first instance. Medicine should always be given when the stomach is empty. MELONS, The Cultivation of.—These plants are most tender exotics, and their cultivation depends greatly on the regularity of heat in the pits or houses in which they are grown, which should range to at least seventy degrees. Sow the seed in January or February for earliest, and in Mat*sli and April for general and successional late crops. The fruit of those sown in January and February will ripen in May, J une, and July ; that of the after sowings in J uly, August, and September.