l33 MUSTARD PAPERS.—Bruise some black mustard seed to a powder, and sprinkle it evenly over paper which has previously been coated with a thin solution of gum. Dry it in a warm place, and when required cut it into the desired shape and immerse it for a moment in tepid water before applying. These papers will be found quite as effectual as the common mustard plasters, and far more cleanly. MUSTARD PLASTER, To Apply a.—If the mustard is mixed with white of egg instead of water the plaster may be applied to the most delicate skin without causing it to blister. MUSTARD POULTICE, A Strong.—Mix a quarter of a pound of mustard and two ounces of scraped horseradish with sufficient vinegar to bring the poultice to the proper consistence. MUSTARD SPONGE.—Dr. B. W. Richardson recommends the use of a sponge for making mustard poultices. He says:—“A sponge makes the best of mustard carriers. The nurse mixes the mustard in a basin with water until the mass is smooth and of even consistence. Then she takes the soft mass all up with a clean sponge, lays the sponge in the centre of a soft white handkerchief, ties up the corners of the handkerchief neatly, to form a hold, and applies the smooth convex surface to the skin. This mustard sponge, warmed again by the fire and slightly moistened, can be applied three or four times, is good for several hours, and saves the trouble of making a new poultice for reapplication, often a matter of im- portance during the weariness of night-watching. The sponge can be washed clean in warm water." MUSTARD WHEY, for Constipation, &c.—Take a cupful of milk, and the same quantity of water, and boil them together with half an ounce of mustard-seed till the curd separates, then strain. Dose : One dessert-spoonful an hour before breakfast. A teacupful of the above mixture, taken several times a day, gives great relief in cases of dropsy, palsy, and chronic rheumatism. MUTTON (BREAST OF), To Boil.—Stew it tender in some good gravy ; bone and score it, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and give it a boil up. Serve with capers and melted butter, or with chopped walnuts or mushroom ketchup. MUTTON (BREAST OF), To Collar.—Remove the bones and gristle, then take some bread crumbs and sweet herbs chopped very fine, and mix them with the yolk of egg ; lay the meat flat, and spread the seasoning over it ; roll the meat up as hard as possible, skewer together, and either roast or bake. MUTTON (BREAST OF), To Roast.—Cut off the superfluous fat, put the meat before a good fire, and roast for an hour and a quarter. Serve with stewed cucumbers or green peas. MUTTON BROTH.—Put into a stew-pan as much water as will be required to cover the pieces of mutton, put therein a cupful or so of pearl barley, and boil for three hours ; then add the meat, with a carrot or turnip and a couple of onions cut up small, and let the whole boil together till the mutton is tender. Season to taste. Serve the broth first, then the meat. MUTTON CHOPS (BROILED).—The chops should be taken from the best end of the loin. Remove the greater portion of the fat, and any skin that may be upon them, and put them on a gridiron over a very clear fire ; turn them frequently, but do not stick the fork into the lean, as this would let out the gravy ; when nearly done rub a little fresh butter over them, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Serve very hot. MUTTON CPIOPS (FRIED).—Trim the chops, pare off the fat, and put them into a pan of boiling dripping ; turn them again and again