II put In a head of celery and a turnip, with seasoning to taste, and boil for an hour longer. If more fat rises, skim it off before sending the broth to table. BARLEY GRUEL.—Boil an ounce and a half of pearl barley in a quart of water till reduced to a pint ; strain ; flavour with ginger, warm it up in the saucepan, then add a glass of port wine. This gruel is rendered more strengthening by using three parts milk and one part water, instead of water only. BARLEY PUDDING.—Wash a pound of pearl barley, add half a pound of refined sugar and a little mixed spice, and mix it with three quarts of milk. Bake it in a deep pan till nearly half cooked, then remove it from the oven and mix it with six well-beaten eggs ; pour into a buttered dish and bake an hour longer. BARLEY SUGAR (WHITE).—Boil some loaf sugar until it is easy to crack, then pour it upon a marble slab greased with oil of sweet almonds, and mould it into any desired figure. It must be kept from the air or it will become soft. BARLEY WATER.—Boil four tablespoonfuls of pearl barley for five minutes, then pour the water away ; add to the barley a little sugar, a piece of lemon-peel, and three pints of water: let it simmer till it has thickened ; strain, and flavour to taste. BAROMETER, A Simple.—Fill a common wide-mouthed pickle- bottle within three inches of the top with water ; then take an ordinary Florence oil flask, and, having removed the straw covering and washed it thoroughly, plunge the neck of the flask as far as it will go into the pickle- bottle, and the barometer is complete. In fine weather the water will rise into the neck of the flask even higher than the mouth of the pickle-bottle, and in wet and windy weather it will fall to within an inch of the mouth of the flask. Before a heavy gale of wind the water has been seen to leave the flask altogether at least eight hours before the gale reached its height. BAROMETER (CHEMICAL).—Put into a glass tube or a narrow phial two drams of camphor, half a dram of pure saltpetre, half a dram of muriate of ammonia, and two ounces of proof spirits. In dry weather the solution remains clear ; on the approach of a change, minute stars rise up in the liquid ; and in stormy weather the condition of the chemical combination is much disturbed. BAROMETER (LEECH).—Put three gills of water into an eight ounce bottle and place a leech therein, covering the top of the bottle with muslin. If the leech lies coiled up motionless at the bottom of the glass the weather will be fine or frosty ; if it moves about very swiftly there will be wind ; if it remains for some days almost constantly out of the water and exhibits violent throes and convulsive-like motions, rain and thunder will succeed ; if it remains at the top of the water, it will be rainy and unsettled, or in winter frost may be expected. BASIL, To Grow.—Sow the seed in a hot-bed in spring for planting into the open ground in May. BASILICON OINTMENT (BLACK).—Melt half a pound of yellow rosin ; add half a pound of yellow wax and a quarter of a pound of common pitch ; then remove it from the fire, add slowly half a pound of linseed oil, and stir the whole together until cold. BASILICON OINTMENT (GREEN).—Yellow rosin and yellow wax, of each one ounce and a half; lard, three ounces ; Venice turpentine, three ounces ; powdered verdigris, half an ounce. First melt the rosin, then gradually add the other ingredients, but take care that the mass does not boil over.