179 weed, and boil the silk to a good colour. The colour may be fixed by adding nitrate and alum and water to the first boiling. SILK, To Remove Grease or Wax Stains from.—Scrape the grease from the silk, and gently rub on the spot a little French chalk and lavender water, mixed to the consistence of cream. Lay a sheet or two of blotting- paper over it and apply a warm iron. When the chalk is dry remove it, and dust the silk with a soft brush. SILK, To Remove Oil Stains from.—Mix together two parts of benzine and one part of alcohol sixty degrees overproof; place the stained part over two or three folds of flannel or blotting-paper, and moisten the oil stain with the mixture. The stain will disappear after a few applica- tions. Care must be taken not to let a light come into contact with the benzine. SILK, To Restore the Colour of.—Silks that have had the colour taken out of them by acids may be restored by applying a little hartshorn or sal-volatile to the spot. SILK (VIOLET), To Restore.—Violet silk which has lost its colour through the action of acids may be restored in the following way :— First brush with tincture of iodine the portion of fabric affected ; after a few seconds, well saturate the spot with a solution of hyposulphite of soda, and dry gradually in the air. SILKWORMS’ EGGS, The Hatching of.—These eggs may be prevented from hatching, even in summer, by keeping them in a cool place. When the food for the worm is in perfection, and it is desired to increase the stock, expose the eggs for a day or two to the heat of the sun, and the worm will be produced with facility. SILVER ORNAMENTS, To Clean.—Wash with hot water and soap, and polish with a soft leather and jeweller’s rouge, the latter just moistened with spirits of wine. Or brush the ornaments with spirits of ammonia, and afterwards wash them in a basin of water, adding a piece of soft soap the size of a walnut ; dry with a linen rag, and afterwards before the fire, so as to cause all moisture to evaporate, for if any damp be left behind the silver will tarnish. See also Plate, To Clean. SILVER-PLATING.—Small articles may be silver-plated in the following way:—Nitrate of silver, one part ; common salt, one part ; cream of tartar, seven parts ; powder and mix, then apply by wetting with a little water, and rubbing on the article to be plated with a wash-leather, which must be perfectly clean. SILVER SPOONS, To Take Medicine Stains from.—Dip a soft rag in sulphuric acid, rub it on to the spoon, and then wash it off with soap and water. SILVER, To Take Ink Stains Out of.-^Ink stains may be re- moved from inkstands, and other silver articles with a little chloride of lime mixed with water. SIZE, A Useful.—Boil to a jelly the threads and parings of parch- ment, vellum, or leather, and strain it through a sieve. SIZE (GOLD), for Gilders, &c.—Grind fine bole on a marble slab, add thereto a little beef suet, and triturate the whole together; then dissolve some common size in twice its quantity of water, and mix it with the other ingredients. SIZE (SILVER), for Carvers, &c.—Pulverize a small quantity of black-lead and tobacco-pipe clay, then grind them with a little Genoa soap, and mix with ordinary size. SKATE (BOILED).—Take a fish that has been out of the water one day, clean, and cut it into narrow pieces, and boil it in salted water