153 little lemon juice. Put the pheasants into dishes, pour the sauce over, and decorate with forcemeat balls. PHEASANTS, To Choose.—The cock bird is mostly preferred, though the hens are in general more delicate. The male bird shows his age by his spurs. If young, these are short and blunt, but if old they are long and sharp. • They should be kept six or seven days after they are killed. When blood begins to run from the bills they are fit for table. PHLOXES.—These are in general robust plants, varying con- siderably in size; will grow in any ordinary garden soil, and are readily increased by division of the stool, cuttings, or seed sown in light, rich loam. PHOTOGRAPHS, Mountants for.—Soak some best glue in cold water till soft; put it into an earthen jar, and place the jar in a saucepan of water. When quite thin, add gradually methylated spirit, stirring well between each addition until quite clear. Indiarubber solution thinned with benzole will also answer the pur- pose. PICKLES (MIXED).—Cut up some white cabbage, cauliflowers, garlic, and celery, and put them into the best white wine vinegar with some gherkins, French beans, small button onions, nasturtiums, and capsicums. To each gallon of vinegar used add three ounces of salt, half a pound of flour of mustard, two ounces of turmeric, three ounces of sliced ginger, one ounce of cloves, half an ounce each black and long pepper, and two drams of cayenne, steeping the spices in vinegar on the stove for two or three days. The mustard and turmeric are sometimes mixed with vinegar before they are added. The pickle should be kept at least a year before sending it to table. PICKLES, To Detect the Presence of Copper in.—Put a portion of the pickles in a small bottle with a few drams of liquid ammonia diluted with half the quantity of water ; shake it for a few moments, when, if copper be present, the whole will turn to a fine blue colour. PICKLING, Hints on.—In pickling it is highly necessary to avoid the use of metallic vessels, as these would rapidly become corroded and poisonous, from the effects of both the vinegar and brine. Common glazed earthenware should also be avoided, either for making or keeping the pickles in, as the glazing usually contains lead. The best malt or white wine vinegar is mostly used, though wood or distilled vinegar will effect the purpose. Both brine and vinegar may be best heated or boiled in stoneware, by the heat of a water bath or a stove. For early use the vegetables should be steeped in hot or boiling brine, as they will thus be ready for use in a much shorter time ; but this method is not recommended for cabbage or onions, as it deprives them of their crispness. PIG’S CHEEK (BOILED).—Sprinkle each side of the cheek with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; tie it in a cloth, put into a saucepan of cold water, and simmer gently till done. If the cheek has been dried it will need soaking for several hours before it is cooked. PIG’S FEET AND EARS (FRIED).—Soak them for three or four hours, and boil them tender. Then take them up, and boil with a portion of the liquor some vinegar and a little salt ; let stand till cold, then pour it over them, and let stand for several hours. Cut the feet in two, slice the ears, dip the pieces in batter, and fry. Serve with plain butter, mustard, and vinegar. PIG’S HEAD (BOILED).—Take a head which has been salted, and boil it gently an hour and a quarter. PIG’S HEAD (ROAST).—Boil until the flesh is sufficiently Sender to allow of the bones being taken out. After removing these, shape 21