io5 JAM (RHUBARB).—Take two pounds and a half of peeled rhubarb, and cut it into pieces about an inch long. Put it on a large flat dish, sprinkle over one pound of centrifugal sugar, and set it away in a cool place for twelve hours, then pour off the liquid. Tie up in muslin four cloves, and one inch of cinnamon stick, or three-quarters of an ounce of ginger slightly crushed ; put this into a preserving-pan with one pound of the crystallised sugar, and a bit of soda the size of a Spanish nut ; boil till it becomes a thick syrup covered with large bubbles, and when, on rubbing it with a spoon on the side of the pan, it will grain. Take out the seasoning, put in the rhubarb, and boil gently for twenty minutes or half an hour. Take up a little and let it cool ; if thick and clear, it is done. Pour it into jars, and tie down at once with vegetable parchment. The jam should be of a pale green. Rhubarb jam will not keep so long as most others, as the fruit is more liable to fermentation. JAM (STRAWBERRY).—Strip the stalks off and weigh the fruit, then put it into a preserving-pan and boil quickly for half an hour, stirring it during the whole time with a wooden spoon, but so as not to bruise it. The addition of one pound of red currant juice to every four pounds of strawberries will be found a great improvement. Then add to every pound of fruit three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and boil up quickly for about twenty minutes, or until a skin appears on the surface when it cools. Stir the jam gently, but quickly, until it is cooked, and remove the scum as it is thrown up. Pour into clean, dry jars, cover the tops with brandied papers, and tie down closely. JAM PUFFS.—Cut the paste into squares the thickness of a patty case, put a little jam in the middle, fold one side of the crust over the other and press the edges together with the thumbs, keeping the middle nicely raised ; egg the tops, bake, and glaze them. JASMINE, To Cultivate.—The common sweet scented, white- flowered jasmine is a very useful and neat climber, but it mav also be trained in a pot as a handsome standard plant. It is propagated either by layers or cuttings. There are also varieties which bear yellow blossoms”, the most hardy of which is the winter jasmine. This is best trained aga:nst a south wall, but will grow in any common light soil. As it blossoms°upon the young wood, the shoots should be encouraged in their growth, but after flowering the side-shoots may be cut back to one or two eyes, keeping the leading shoots trained up the wall. They may be increased by layers or cuttings of partly ripened wood, struck in a warm frame in a mixture of light soil and sand. JAUNDICE, Remedies for.—Pour boiling water upon one ounce of senna, one ounce of camomile flowers, one ounce of ground ginger, and one ounce of powered jalap. Dose : Half a teaspoonful in a small cup of tea once or twice a day. Another useful remedy Put burdock-root and agrimony, of each one ounce, into two quarts of water. Boil down to three pints, and take a wineglassful two or three times a day. Take one pennyworth of allspice' and the same amount of flowers of brimstone and turmeric. Pound together, and mix them with half a pound of treacle. Two tablespoonfuls to be taken every day. JEAN SLIPPERS (WHITE), To Clean.—Place the slippers upon a boot-tree, or cram them full of wadding or other soft materials, to prevent creases ; scrub them with soap and water, using as little water as possible to remove the dirt ; then mix some pipeclay with water to the con- sistence of a rather thick paste, and with a flannel rub it well into the slippers. Hang them up, and when dry beat out the superfluous clay with Vhe hand and rub them till they are smooth. 15