*47 for two or three days, then if the oil has distributed itself all over the sur- face, hang the sheet on a line to dry. PAPER (OILED), for Jar-Pots, Wrappers, &c.—Dissolve over a slow fire a little shellac in boiled oil; brush it over the papers and hang them to dry. Paper prepared in this manner is waterproof. Great care must be exercised while the oil is over the fire, to see that it does not boil over. PAPER, To Remove Grease Spots from.—Grease spots may be removed from paper in the following manner Place a piece of blotting- paper over the stain and rub it with a hot iron. Repeat this several times, then apply with a soft brush to both sides of the paper a little oil of turpen- tine, and afterwards some rectified spirits of wine. PAPER, To Remove Ink Spots from.—Ink spots may be removed from paper by the application of a solution of citric, tartaric, or oxalic acid. The spot to which the solution is applied is first carefully moistened with cold distilled water, the acid is then applied with a camel’s hair brush, and as the ink is discharged it is blotted up with blotting-paper. When all the stain has disappeared, the place is carefully washed with lime water or good soft water. Oxalic acid must not be used for removing stains from blue paper, as it leaves a white mark. PAPER, To Stain any Colour.—Paper or parchment maybe stained any colour by using the same dye as given hereafter under the heading of Wood. PAPER (TRACING).—Dissolve Canada balsam in spirits of wine and a little turpentine; brush the mixture on to white tissue paper, and hang each sheet separately on a line to dry. PAPIER-MACHE, To Clean.—Sponge the articles with cold water ; while still damp sprinkle them with flour or whiting, dry them with a flannel, and finish off with a soft cloth or silk handkerchief. PAPIER-MACHE, To Manufacture.—Take the cuttings of white or brown paper, boil them in water and beat them to a pulp. Then boil it with a solution of gum-arabic, or of size, to give it tenacity, and press it into oiled moulds. When dry give it first a coating of size and lamp-black, and afterwards of varnish. PARAFFIN, To Test.—Pour a few drops into a spoon or saucer and apply a lighted match ; if the oil ignites it must be regarded as dan- gerous and likely to prove explosive. Genuine paraffin will extinguish the flame, as it will bum only on a wick. PARCHMENT FOR PAINTING, To Prepare.—Make a firm pad with listing, dip it into finely-powdered white pumice stone, and rub it over the parchment. If water colours are mixed with alum water and used upon parchment thus prepared the tints will not sink. PARCHMENT SIZE.—Wash a pound of parchment cuttings in two or three lots of cold water; put them into a saucepan with four quarts of soft cold water, and allow them to simmer gently to one-half the quantity ; then strain through a fine sieve or piece of muslin. PAREGORIC ELIXIR.—Infuse for four days half an ounce of flowers of benzoin and two drams of opium in one pound of volatile aro- matic spirits ; then strain off. Dose : For an adult, fifty or sixty drops in a wineglass of water ; for a child fourteen years of age, from twenty-five to thirty drops ; for one four years old, fifteen drops. PARROTS.—These birds are fed upon rape seed, soaked bread and biscuits, boiled potatoes, and occasionally a bone upon which a little cayenne pepper has been sprinkled ; they also eat most kind of nuts with a relish. They require to be kept very clean, and it is not a bad practice .to give