37 CHICKENS (RISSOLES OF).—Cut the white fleshy part from a dressed chicken, mince it, and simmer for a short time in either chicken or veal broth, reduced. Season well, and when cold divide into small balls, roll them up in paste, and fry to a delicate colour. Garnish with fried parsley. CHICKENS (ROAST).—Pluck, draw, singe, and truss the birds, dredge them with flour, cover the breasts with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them before a good fire for about twenty minutes, keeping them constantly turning, and basting with butter. Remove the paper from the breasts eight minutes before they are done, so that they may get brown. Serve with butter and parsley. , CHICKENS (SOUFLE OF).—This dish is made from the remnants of roasted chickens. Cut off the white flesh and mince it very small ; pound it in a mortar with a little broth, a good-sized piece of butter, and salt and pepper; then beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix with the minced meat. Strain the whole through a tammy, or a hair sieve ; beat up the whites of five eggs, put this with the other preparation, pour into a dish and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes. CHICKENS, To Fatten Quickly.—Scald some milk, pour it upon rice, and mix with treacle. Give the birds as much of the warm mixture as they will eat every morning. CHILBLAINS (BROKEN).—Hog’s lard, one ounce; beeswax, one ounce ; oil of turpentine, half an ounce. Melt and mix thoroughly, spread on leather, and apply as soon as possible after the wound appears. Persons subject to chilblains should sleep in knitted woollen socks, as warmth causes circulation, a lack of which brings on the complaint. CHILBLAINS, Liniment for.—Belladonna liniment, two drams; aconite liniment, one dram ; carbolic acid, twelve drops ; flexile collodion, sufficient to make one ounce. Apply with a camel-hair pencil every three days. CHILBLAINS, Preventive against.—Rub the toes, or other parts of the feet likely to become affected, every morning and night with a mix- ture of one part camphorated spirit and three parts vinegar. CHILBLAINS (UNBROKEN).—As soon as the itching sensa- tion is felt in the feet or hands apply a coating of concentrated chloride of iron. It is acknowledged to be an unfailing remedy. Or, rub them well every night with turpentine. The skin will peel off, nevertheless this simple remedy will be found as effectual as the most costly compounds. The following is another excellent remedyPut two ounces of sal- ammoniac in a quart of rain water, and boil it till the sal-ammoniac is dis- solved. Rub it on the chilblains three times a day. This must not be applied near the fire. Great relief may also be obtained by rubbing them every night and morning with a mixture composed of one ounce of spirits of wine and ten drops of tincture of arnica. Another excellent remedyReduce to a powder one dram of sugar of lead hnd two drams of white vitriol, add four ounces of water. Shake the lotion before using, and rub it in before a good fire. CHILI, To Grow.—Sow the seed in March in a hot-bed or hot- house in pans. When strong enough, prick out, placing two or three in a pot ; finally shift into six-inch pots for fruiting in the greenhouse. CHIMNEYS, To Extinguish Fire in.—Shut the door and window of the room, throw a few handfuls of salt on to the burning soot in the chimney, then sprinkle a handful of sulphur on the fire, and immediately pm a cloth saturated with water over the front of the fireplace.