OYSTERS, To Fatten.—Wash the shells clean and lay them in a pan, cover them with salt water and add a few spoonfuls of oatmeal. Change the water each day. PiEONIES.—There are two distinct varieties of this plant, the herbaceous and the tree species. The herbaceous kinds die down to the roots every autumn, are all quite hardy, and are suitable for bedding in masses or for borders. They delight in a deep, sound, alluvial soil, and the duration of their bloom is prolonged by a slight protection from the shade of trees. They are readily propagated by root division. The tree paeonies require a deep alluvial soil, with an admixture of heath mould or silver sand. It is advisable to protect them from frosts by means of canvas, as their flower-buds are in danger of being cut off at an early period. They may be multiplied by cuttings detached at their insertion on the stem, by slips of the root, or by layers half cut through behind each bud. They do not strike so expeditiously as those of the herbaceous kinds, but once established they require no pruning and only a minimum amount of attention. PAIN KILLER, A Popular.—Put into a bottle one pint of alcohol, half an ounce of gum-guaicum, a quarter of an ounce of myrrh, and the same amount each of camphor and cayenne ; shake occasionally for ten days, then filter for use. This will not only relieve external pains, but taken in doses of one teaspoonful is effectual in removing internal throes. PAINTERS’ COLIC, To Relieve.—Administer salts or othei aperient medicine, and apply bags of hot salt or hot bran to the stomach until the pain abates. Let the diet be low and sparing. As this disease is a dangerous one, it will at all times be advisable to call in medical aid, but in the meantime the above remedies may be resorted to. PAINT (FIREPROOF).—Mix furnace slag with boiling acid until a jelly-like substance is produced, of which take sixteen parts and mix with eight parts of silicia, twenty-three parts of oxide of zinc, twenty-three of silicate of soda, and thirty of lime water ; the product to be added to the colours or varnishes as desired. This will render the wood with which it is covered both incombustible and impervious to moisture. Another method :—Grind in oil one part of fine sand, two parts of wood ashes, and three parts of slaked lime. Give to the work two coats, one thin and the next thick. PAINT, Solvent for.—See Putty and Paint, Solvent for Old. PAINT, To Clean.—Take a small quantity of whiting on a damp flannel, rub slighdy over the surface, and rinse with clear water. The effect will be surprising. PAINT, To Destroy the Smell of.—Place in the newly-painted room a vessel full of lighted charcoal, and throw on it a couple of handfuls of juniper berries. Shut the windows, chimney, and door close for twenty- four hours, by which time the unwholesome smell will be entirely gone. It need scarcely be said that no person must remain in the room while the charcoal is burning. PAINT (VARNISHED).—See Varnish for Paint. PAINTINGS (REVERSIBLE).—Paint a winter landscape, or other appropriate subject, with ordinary colours ; then make a dilute solu- tion of cobalt in nitro-muriatic acid, and with this paint the snow and a foliage to the trees, and let it dry. When brought near the fire the solution will become a green colour, and thus change the wintry appearance of the view into one of summer ; when cold the picture will resume its former appearance. PALETTES (WOODEN), To Prepare.—By rubbing in as much raw linseed oil as the palette can be made to imbibe, and allowing it 20