36 dishes to cool; let the syrup continue to boil until rich and quite thick, then let it stand to get cool. Put the fruit into jars and carefully pour the syrup over it ; let it remain open until the following day, then cover closely over. Sweet cherries are improved by the addition of a pint of red currant juice and half a pound of sugar to every four pounds of cherries. CHERRY BRANDY.—Bruise three pounds of black cherries, cracking the stones ; put the mass into a clean jar with a few young cherry leaves ; add three pints of brandy ; let it stand for three months, then strain off, and add two pounds of crushed lump sugar. It will be fit to drink a week afterwards. CHERRY PUDDING.—Butter the sides and bottom of a basin and line it with a paste made with butter or finely chopped suet rubbed into flour and mixed with water, put in the cherries, cover the top with crust, tie in a cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. CHERRY TART.—Put a good crust round the sides of a pie- dish, sprinkle it with sugar, and fill with cherries and a few red currants, put on the top crust, bake, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. CHESTNUTS, To Dish up.—Take fifty good chestnuts, cut the husks in several places to prevent them from bursting, roast them well, and when done remove the skins. Pour half a pint of boiling water on to half a pound of loaf sugar and the juice of a lemon ; put the whole into a saucepan and boil slowly for ten minutes. Serve with caster sugar. CHICKEN BROTH.—Joint a chicken, and boil it in three pints of water, with three blades of mace, a crust of bread, an ounce and a half of rice, pepper and salt to taste. Skim frequently, and simmer for three hours, or till it is reduced to half the quantity. A little vermicelli boiled in the soup five minutes before it is served is an improvement. CHICKEN (POTTED).—Chop, and pound very fine, two pounds of the flesh of a chicken with one pound of lean ham, add three- quarters of a pound of butter, a little cayenne, nutmeg, and ground mace. Pot, and cover with hot butter. CHICKENS (BOILED).—Tie the wings and the legs to the body with thread, immerse in milk and water for two hours, then put into cold water, and boil slowly for half an hour. Skim constantly. Garnish with white broccoli, and serve with white sauce. Very plump birds should be chosen for this dish, otherwise it will not give satisfaction. CHICKENS (CURRIED).—Put slices of a dressed chicken into a stew-pan with a clove of garlic, a sliced onion fried brown, and some veal or mutton gravy. Simmer till tender, then add a good spoonful each of curry powder and flour, rubbed smooth with an ounce of butter, three or four tablespoonfuls of cream, a little salt, and some lemon juice. Serve with boiled rice round the dish. CHICKENS (FRICASSEE OF).—Draw a coupleof fat chickens, singe them till the flesh gets firm, and carve them into pieces. Take out the lungs and the spongy parts within the loins, and wash in lukewarm water till all the blood is extracted ; then blanch them in boiling water ; drain, and place in cold water so that they may be more readily trimmed. Put them into a stew-pan with a small bit of butter, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, some parsley, a small shalot, a few bits of mace, and a bay leaf. Let them boil for about three-quarters of an hour, then dish up. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, the yolks of four eggs, and a cupful of cream. Stir it over the fire, but do not boil it. Pour the gravy over the chicken. Some cooks add a little lemon juice, while others disapprove of the practice. When this is done the fricassee must be highly seasoned with pepper and salt