136 suet, some sweet herbs, a couple of anchovies, a few oysters, all chopped small, and a spoonful of anchovy sauce; bind together with the yolk of egg, well beaten ; roll it into balls, and fry. MUTTON (SADDLE OF), Roast.—Hang it for some time to get a good flavour, then take off the skin, and skewer it on again ; cut away the fat round the kidneys, and hang the joint before a strong fire. When within rather more than a quarter of an hour of its being done, take off the skin, dredge the meat with salt and flour, and baste well. Time, about two hours and a half. MUTTON (SADDLE OF), To Carve. — This joint, which is a very favourite one, consists of two loins, and is either cut into thin slices parallel with the back-bone, or carved obliquely from the bone to the edge. The under part is seldom served hot. MUTTON (SHOULDER OF), Boiled.—Let the meat hang for a time, then put it into salt for two days; bone it, sprinkle with pepper and a little pounded mace, roll and tie it up, and stew in a good quantity of water with an onion and a few pepper-corns. Stew some oysters in rich gravy, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, put the meat on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. MUTTON (SHOULDER OF), Roast.—Put the spit in close to the shank-bone, and run it along to the blade-bone ; put before the fire, cook thoroughly, and send to table with the skin nicely browned, accom- panied with onion sauce. A joint weighing seven pounds will take an hour and a half to cook. MUTTON (SHOULDER OF), To Carve.—Make a cut on the fore part of the shoulder, and serve slices from both sides of the incision ; then cut slices lengthways along the shoulder blade. The fat lies at the rounding corner, and near it are some epicure’s morsels. The under side is generally considered best cold ; but if served hot, the oyster pieces to the right, and the hillock produce the prime slices, which must be cut horizontally. MUTTON, To Choose.—Wether mutton, which is superior in flavour to that of the ewe, may be known by the fat on the inside of the thigh. The flesh should be firm, of a close grain and a bright colour, and the fat solid and white. If upon pinching the meat it wrinkles up and remains so, and the fat is held together with stxings of skin, the joint should be rejected as old and tough. MUTTON, To Preserve from Taint.—Wash it every day with vinegar, and thoroughly dry it before hanging. In muggy weather, rub it with sugar, and sprinkle it all over with pepper and ground ginger, to keep off the flies. NARCISSUS, To Grow.—These graceful flowers require the same treatment as recommended in this work for hyacinths, but are better for even a lighter compost and a more liberal supply of water. NARCOTIC POISONS.—Deadly night-shade, fools’ parsley, baneberries, and other like poisonous plants, produce nausea, faintness, stupor, and frequently death. To eradicate the evil, give emetics and large draughts of fluids, rouse the patient, and keep him awake, using rough treatment if it cannot be otherwise done, and administer from thirty to forty drops of sal-volatile in strong coffee every half hour. NASTURTIUMS (PICKLED),—Gather the seeds while they are young, and steep them |in salt and water for thirty minutes ; then place them in boiling salt and water, and boil for a couple of minutes. Put them into a jar and pour over some good vinegar ; flavour with spice, and cover closely for seven days, when they may be used as a substitute for capers.