53 laudanum. If the patient suffers from a weak heart, by no means ad- minister laudanum without medical advice, but in its place a strong decoc- tion of wormwood may be used. A mustard plaster on the nape of the neck and on the soles of the feet will hasten the cure. After the attack is over give strong beef tea, chicken broth, and other strengthening food. DENTIFRICE.—The use of finely pulverised charcoal once or twice a day will keep the teeth as white as any of the more costly powders can do, some of which, although at first imparting a pearly appearance, eventually turn them yellow. The juice of the common strawberry is a good natural dentifrice. It requires no preparation or addition, dissolves the calcareous incrustations of the teeth, and renders the breath sweet and agreeable. See also Tooth Powders. DIABETES, Cure for.—To a pint and a half of milk add one dram of alum. Take a gill of this posset four times a day. It generally cures in less than a fortnight. DIAMONDS, To Estimate the Value of.—To determine the value of a diamond double the weight in carats and multiply the square of the product by £2. Thus, a diamond weighing one carat would be worth ;£8, and one weighing ten carats, ^800. DIAMONDS, To Test.—A set diamond maybe tested by placing wax on its back. This operation will not affect the lustre of a true gem, but will totally destroy the brilliancy of paste imitations. DIARRHOEA MIXTURE, for Adults.—Tincture of opium, half a dram ; tincture of ginger, half a dram ; tincture of rhubarb, half a dram ; tincture of peppermint, half a dram ; tincture of capsicum, half a dram. Take fifteen drops in a wineglassful of water every hour till relieved ; increase to twenty drops if necessary. DIARRHCEA, Simple Remedy for.—Take two good-sized acorns grated into a glassful of gin. DIARRHCEA, To Relieve Infants Suffering from.—Aromatic powder of chalk and opium, ten grains ; oil of dill, five drops ; simple syrup, three drams ; water, nine drams. Mix, and give half a teaspoonful to babies under six months old, or one teaspoonful to children over that age. DIPHTHERIA, Simple Remedy for.—Take a common tobacco- pipe, place a live coal within the bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal, and let the patient draw smoke into the mouth and discharge it through the nostrils. Dr. J. Lewis Smith asserts that he has never seen pseudo-membranes disappear more rapidly from the fauces than when the following is used :— Extracti pancreatis, one dram ; sodii bicarbonatis, two drams ; mix ; add one large teaspoonful to six teaspoonfuls of tepid water, and apply by a large camel’s-hair pencil every half hour to the fauces. DISINFECTANTS, Cheap.—Place some wood charcoal in an old iron saucepan, cover it with an iron lid ; stand it over the fire until the charcoal is red-hot, then put a thin layer of it on an iron plate and stand it in any convenient place. A room may be thoroughly deodorised by this simple process. Dr. Richardson states that iodine placed in a small box with a perforated lid destroys organic poison in rooms. In cases of small-pox he has seen this method used with great benefit. DISINFECTING FLUIDS.—Dissolve in a wine-bottle of cold water two ounces of acetate of lead, then add two ounces of strong nitric acid. Shake the bottle, and the fluid will be ready for use. A couple of handfuls of copperas (sulphate of iron) dissolved in a bucket of water makes a valuable disinfectant. A sick room may be quickly disinfected by standing therein a pail of