206 one gallon more of hot water may be passed through the husks, in order to obtain any soluble matter that may remain, and be again pressed. The juice should be put into a tub or pan of sufficient size to contain all of it and the sugar added to it. Let it be well stirred until the sugar is dissolved, and then place the pan in a warm situation. Keep it closely covered, and let it ferment for a day or two. It must then be drawn off into clean casks, placed a little on one side for the scum that arises to be thrown out, and the casks kept tilled with the remaining “ must,” which should be reserved for that purpose. When the active fermentation has ceased the casks should be plugged upright, again filled, if necessary, the bungs be put in loosely, and, after a few days, when the fermentation is a little more languid, which may be known by the hissing noise ceasing, the bungs should be driven in tight and a spile hole made to give vent, if necessary. About November or December, on a clear fine day, the wine should be racked from its lees into clean casks, which may be rinsed with brandy. After a month it should be examined to see if it is sufficiently clear for bottling ; if not, it must be fined with isinglass, which may be dissolved in some of the wine. An ounce will be sufficient for nine gallons. WINE (GRAPE).—Gather the fully-ripe fruit of the sweet-wateT grape, free it from stalks, bruise it thoroughly, but be careful not to crush the stones, and then express the juice, to every gallon of which add two pounds of sugar. Set the liquor in a warm room for a day or so, until fermentation begins, then put it into casks, leaving the bung-hole open. As fermentation proceeds and the scum is thrown off, keep the cask filled up with juice reserved for that purpose. When the fermentation subsides, clear away all impurities, fill the cask and drive in the bung. Leave the vent-peg out for a few days, then put it in lightly, and loosen it occasionally to let off the gas. When the hissing noise ceases to be heard at the bung- hole, drive the vent-peg in tightly, and leave the wine on the lees throughout the winter, or longer, as it improves by keeping. WINE (MEAD).—Water, four gallons and a half; white currants, three pints. Ferment, and add honey, eight pounds ; white tartar, three- quarters of an ounce ; pale brandy, one quart. WINE (MORELLA).—Pick fifteen pounds of Morelia cherries, bruise them sufficiently to break the stones, press out the juice, and mix with a gallon and a half of sherry wine, a pound and a half of sugar, and a gallon of warm water. Powder a quarter of an ounce each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace, place them in separate bags, hang them in the cask with the wine and put in the bung. In a few weeks the wine will be fit for use. The addition of a little pale brandy improves it. WINE (MOUNTAIN).—Remove the stalks from five pounds of Malaga raisins, chop the fruit small, and add a gallon of cold water. Infuse for two weeks, stirring occasionally ; express the juice ; fume a large botile with brimstone and pour in the liquor. When it has ceased to ferment add half a pint of pale brandy, and cork tightly. WINE (MULLED).—Boil some spice in water until the flavour is extracted sufficient to suit the taste, and to each pint of wine add one large cupful of the spiced water ; sweeten it with sugar, then bring the whole to boiling point and serve with biscuits or strips of crisp dry toast. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port and claret are usually selected for the purpose. The latter requires a very large proportion of sugar. The spices generally used are cloves, grated nutmeg, and cinnamon or mace. WINE (ORANGE).—To five gallons of water add fourteen pounds of loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs. Boil for a quarter of an hour, removing the scum as it rises. When cold add the juice of five dozen Seville oranges and four or five lemons with two spoonfuls of yeast.