12 BASILICON OINTMENT (YELLOW).—Melt half a pound of yellow rosin, then add half a pound of yellow wax and three ounces of Burgundy pitch. When the whole is melted, remove it from the fire, and add gradually a quarter of a pound of Venice turpentine and ten ounces of linseed oil, stirring till it is cold. BATTER FOR FISH, FRITTERS, &c.—Cut a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into small pieces, pour on it a glass of beer, or a little oil, vinegar, or white wine ; add by degrees sufficient flour to make it the proper consistence, and a pinch of salt. Just as it is required for use stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten to a solid froth, and use as quickly as possible. BATTER PUDDING (BOILED). — Rub gradually three spoonfuls of flour into a pint of milk ; simmer till it thickens, then stir in an ounce and a half of butter, and set it to cool. Add the yolks of three eggs ; pour the batter into a buttered basin, tie it in a cloth ; plunge it into boiling water, bottom upwards ; boil for an hour and a half, and serve with fresh butter. BEANS AND PEAS, To Preserve from Mice.—Peas and beans may be preserved from the ravages of mice by soaking the seeds in salad- oil and rolling them in powdered rosin previous to putting them into the earth, or by saturating them in a solution of bitter aloes. Many gardeners cover the drills with chopped furze. BEANS (BROAD), To Cultivate.—A strong, tenacious, and heavily-manured soil is most suitable for these. For a first crop, sow early Mazagans on a warm and sheltered border, early in November and again in January. Plant in rows from two to three feet apart, leaving about three inches between the seeds, and covering them to the depth of three inches. Windsor, Longpods, and all the later sorts, for a general crop, may be sown from January to June. BEANS (BROAD), To Boil.—Put them into a saucepan of water with a little salt and chopped parsley. Boil till tender, drain, and serve with butter sauce, accompanied with boiled bacon or pickled pork. Some persons boil the beans with the pork, but this method spoils the colour. BEANS (FRENCH), To Boil. — Remove the ends and stalks from the very young beans, and the strings from the backs of those of fuK. growth. Cut the beans diagonally, or divide them down the centre and then across, throwing them into cold spring water as they are done. Put them into boiling water with a little salt, and a very small piece of soda to preserve their colour, and boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour, or until they are tender, leaving the saucepan uncovered the whole time. BEANS (HARICOT), To Prepare.—Scald half a pint of the white beans in boiling water until the skins become detached. Separate the beans from the skins and throw them into cold water, then put them into a stew-pan with some good broth or stock, and let them boil nearly to a glaze, season with pepper and salt, add a little sugar, stir well together, and serve. BEANS (RUNNERS OR TALL), To Grow.—Sow in a light, rich soil, during the first or second week in May, in drills six feet apart ; earth up and stake when about four inches high, and water with liquid manure when necessary. The above comprise Scarlet Runners, Champion Runners, Painted Lady, and White Dutch. BEANS (WINDSOR), To Cook.—These beans are best shelled immediately before cooking. Throw them into boiling water with a little salt, and boil them pretty fast until they are tender, then strain them off and serve with boiled pork or bacon, accompanied with plain melted butter or parsley sauce.