27 a light custard, and put a band of buttered paper round the edge. Place the pudding in a stew-pan, with about two inches depth of boiling water cover a sheet of paper over, and simmer gently over the fire until the pudding is quite firm, keeping the stew-pan closely covered all the time. Take it out, detach the paper, turn the mould over upon a dish, and serve with sauce. CABINET PUDDING, Sauce for.—Put into a saucepan half a pint of melted butter, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and add a glassful of brandy, the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it ; stir over the fire until it becomes rather thick, then pass it through a strainer and pour it over the pudding. CAKE, A Light.—Take one pound of butter, work it till soft, gradually mixing with it one pound of sugar ; then beat up the yolks of six eggs and put with the butter and sugar ; add half a pint of milk, a pound of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Mix well, and bake in a slow oven. CAKE (CURRANT), A Rich.—Flour, one pound and a quarter; sugar and butter, of each one pound ; baking powder, half a teaspoonful; essence of lemon, two teaspoonfuls ; candied orange and lemon peel, of each one pound ; currants, one pound ; raisins, one pound ; eggs, one dozen ; brandy, one wineglassful. Bake three hours. CAKES, Browning for.—Put into a saucepan half a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of butter, and a little water. Simmer gently till brown. Used to impart a rich colour to cakes. CAKE (SEED).—Rub four ounces of lard or butter into a pound of flour ; add five ounces of sugar, half an ounce of carraway seeds, a tea- spoonful of baking powder, a few drops of essence of lemon, and a pinch of salt; mix well; then beat up two eggs with one-third of a pint of milk ; add to the rest, and bake at once in a moderately hot oven until a skewer inserted into the cake will come out quite clean. The addition of more sugar and butter will make a richer cake. CAKE (SHORT), To Make a.—Rub into a pound of flour a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and one whole egg. Mix into a paste with a little milk, and bake on tins. A few currants or carraway seeds may be added to the paste. CAKE (SODA).—Rub an ounce and a half of butter and three drams of bicarbonate of soda into a pound and a half of flour ; then dis- solve an ounce and a half of sugar in twenty ounces of milk, and add to the other ingredients, with three drams of muriatic acid. Mix the whole intimately and bake in a tin. A few currants may be added at pleasure. CAKES, On the Mixing of.—Cakes, puddings, &c., are always improved^by making the currants, sugar, and flour hot before using them. CALCEOLARIAS.—These elegant plants are divided into two species, the shrubby and the herbaceous. The former make very effective bedding plants during summer, the latter are better suited for the green- house. They all require a large proportion of leaf-mould in their soil, and to be well supplied with water. The shrubby calceolarias are readily propagated by cuttings taken during August and kept through the winter in a cold frame. The herbaceous kinds are multiplied by separation of the stool as well as by seed. The two varieties hybridise freely together. CALF’S FEET BROTH.—Put into a stew-pan two calf’s feet, half a pound of veal, half a pound of beef, a little mace, pepper and salt ; pour upon them three quarts of water, and simmer down to three pints • remove the fat, and strain the liquor. ’ CALF’S HEAD (BOILED).—Take one pound of fat bacon, and the same weight of beef suet, cut them into dice, add half a pound of