122 cutting off the flower-stem, with a pair of scissors, when the bloom is over. It increases rapidly by off-set suckers. LOVE APPLES, The Cultivation of.—Set Tomatoes. LUMBAGO.—Dip a flannel in scalding water, wring it out, and sprinkle it with spirits of turpentine. Apply quickly to the part affected. Repeat this a few times and it will afford certain relief. Also take a little sweet spirits of nitre. LUMBAGO AND RHEUMATIC PAINS, To Alleviate— With one ounce of strong liquid ammonia, mix two tablespoonfuls of oil of turpentine and forty drops of laudanum. Rub the lotion thoroughly into the skin. LUNGS, To Ascertain the State of the.—Draw in a deep breath, and count slowly in an audible voice as many as possible, without drawing in more air. Let the counting be regulated by seconds, and take careful note of the time. A sound person will be able to count from twenty to thirty-five, while one in consumption will range from six to ten, and those suffering from pleurisy and pneumonia from four to nine. LUNGWORT.—This plant, which bears pretty blue and pink flowers, will grow almost anywhere, either from seed or bits of divided stool. It is valuable as a filling up for the skirts of a shrubbery. LYE (PRINTERS’).—To three gallons of water add two ounces of common salt, two pounds of unslacked lime, and two pounds of bruised soda ; stir well, then let it settle, when it will be ready for use. MACARONI (BOILED).—Cleanse it well, and boil it with a little salt in equal quantities of milk and veal broth till it is tender. Then take a spoonful of the liquor and beat it up with the yolk of an egg and a spoonful of cream ; make it hot, but do not let it boil, pour it over the macaroni, and grate over it some good old cheese, lay on it some pieces of butter to melt, then brown it with a salamander. MACARONI PUDDING.—Break a quarter of a pound of macaroni into small pieces, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil uncovered for twenty minutes ; pour off the water, add a pint of milk, and simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour, or till it is tender. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool a little. Beat up an egg with two ounces of sugar, stir it into the macaroni, pour it into a buttered pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake for half an hour. MACARONI (ROAST).—Boil it tender in milk or veal broth, with a little pounded mace and salt; pour off the liquor, and put the macaroni in a dish with bits of butter; grate a good quantity of cheese over the top, cover with bread crumbs ; lay it in a dish ; put the dish in a Dutch oven, and roast before the fire for a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top get hard. MACARONI SOUP.—Put into a stew-pan of boiling water four ounces of macaroni, one ounce of butter, and an onion stuck with six cloves. When the macaroni is quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it two quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, taking care that the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp ; it will then be ready to serve. Send it to table with Parmesian cheese. Time, three- quarters of an hour. MACAROONS.—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them with four tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of four large eggs to a froth, stir in a pound of white sugar, and add to the paste ; roll out to the shape of cakes, cover a tin with paper, put the cakes thereon, and bake. MACASSAR OIL, To Make.—Olive oil, three quarts ; spirits ot wine, half a pint; cinnamon powder, three ounces; bergamot, two ounces,