twenty-four to thirty parts. Cut the stearine and soap into slices, mix them with a portion of the ley, and boil for half an hour, stirring con- stantly. Whenever the mass rises add a little more cold ley. Moisten the pearlash with rain water, add it to the whole, and boil up for a few minutes. Stir the mass till it is cold, then mix it with more of the cold ley, so that it becomes quite liquid and runs off the spoon without coagu- lating and contracting. Cover the composition over for a few days and it will then be ready for use. It will keep for years. Apply with a brush till the plaster will not absorb any more. When dry, dust it with a soft leather, and if the surface has not acquired a gloss apply another coating of the composition. PLASTER (COMMON).—Put into a pot three pints of olive oil and one pound and a quarter of finely-powdered litharge ; stand the pot in a saucepan of water, and boil gently over a slow fire, stirring continually for about three hours. Used to keep the air from slight wounds. PLASTER (GUM).—Common plaster, two pounds ; gum-am- moniac, four ounces ; galban, four ounces. Mix, and add gradually three ounces of Venice turpentine. Used to disperse indolent tumours. PLASTER OF PARIS, To Prevent it Setting.—Plaster of Paris may be prevented from setting for three or four hours by adding to it (before mixing with water) two per cent, of alum, sulphate of potash, or borax. By this method casts can be taken more easily, and when dry they present a greater resemblance to stone. PLASTER (STRENGTHENING).—To two-thirds of a pint of spirits of wine, add half a pound of yellow rosin, two ounces of bees- wax, and one ounce of cayenne pepper. Simmer slowly till the spirits are almost evaporated. Let it cool a little, then add one ounce of camphor, a dram and a half of oil of sassafras, and one dram of opium. PLATE POWDER.—Mix half an ounce of polisher’s putty with the same quantity of burnt hartshorn and an ounce of prepared chalk. PLATE, To Clean.—Plated wares, whether silver or gold, are best cleaned with a sponge and warm soapsuds, and wiped dry with a clean, soft towel or silk handkerchief; then mix some finely-sifted whiting with spirits of wine, lay it on with a sponge, rub it with a soft cloth which has previously been boiled in water mixed with prepared chalk, and polish with a wash-leather. If the silver is stained, boil it for a few minutes before applying the whiting. PLOVERS (ROAST).—These birds are cooked in the same manner as quails and woodcocks, and served upon toast. PLUMS (PRESERVED).—Gather the plums before they are quite ripe, cut them in halves, and remove the stones. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow a pound of white sugar. Then crack the stones and cut the kernels in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels together slowly for a quarter of an hour in as little water as possible, then spread them on a dish to cool, and strain the liquor. The following day add the syrup and boil for fifteen minutes. Put into jars, and while warm pour the juice over them. Let them stand till cold, then put a paper immersed in brandy over the fruit, and tie down the jars in the usual manner. POELE, for Boiled Poultry, &c.—Cut into large dice one pound of beef suet, one pound of very fat bacon, and two pounds of veal, previously fried till it is white ; put them into a stew-pan with three pints of boiling water, one pound of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of salt, a bay leaf, an onion, three cloves, a few sprigs of thyme, and a large bundle of parsley and green onions. Boil the whole gently till the onion is done, then strain through a hair sieve. Poultry, &c., boiled in this poele becomes very white and tasty. In winter time it will keep good for at least a week.