102 constantly till they are thoroughly mixed. Before applying, all grease must be carefully removed from the articles to be mended by the application of sal ammoniac, or ether. Will keep good for years. IRON MOULD, To Remove.—Ink spots and ironmould may be removed from linen in the following manner .’—Stretch the linen tightly over a basin containing boiling water ; wet the stain with water, and then apply a little salts of lemon. When the spot has disappeared wash the article in clear water. IRON OR STEEL, To Impart Different Hues to.—To impart a blue to burnished iron or steel, lay it upon a clear charcoal fire, blow it lightly until a blue colour is perceived upon the metal; after this allow it to remain in the fire for a short time, and then remove it. Or first heat the metal and then rub it over with a cloth dipped in ground indigo and tem- pered with salad oil. This latter is more suitable for large work, such as the barrels of rifles, &c. ; the former does better for small articles, such as daggers. A dark hue may be obtained by cleaning and polishing the metal and rubbing it over with a piece of woollen material dipped in salad oil. A fine transparent reddish colour may be given by first polishing the iron, making it hot, and rubbing it over with some purified dragon's blood. IRONS (RUSTY), To Restore.—Rusty flat irons may be restored to their original smoothness by rubbing them over with beeswax and lard. IRON, To Join.—File one side of each piece bright, put on the bright part a paste made of borax and water, tie the two pieces together with several separate coils of brass wire, and rub some of the borax paste over these. Hold it over a bright coke fire until the brass melts and runs into the joint, which will be known by the blue flame which rises. IRON, To Unite.—Take four-fifths of dry plaster of Paris, and add thereto one-fifth of iron filings ; now add sufficient water to make it of the consistence of thick cream, and apply as quickly as possible, as it soon sets. IRRITATING LINIMENT.—Spirits of turpentine, one ounce ; olive oil, one ounce and a half; tincture of cayenne, half an ounce ; croton oil, a quarter of an ounce. Used to produce eruptions and to assuage pain. IRRITATING PLASTER.—Burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound ; beeswax, a quarter of a pound ; tar, half a pound ; Venice turpen- tine, a quarter of an ounce. Melt over a slow fire, taking care that it does not boil or splash over. When cold, mix with half an ounce of cayenne. Spread on linen, and apply. Used for ulcers and old sores. ISINGLASS, To Detect Adulteration by Gelatine.—Drop a few threads of the substance into vinegar. The pure isinglass will swell an4 become like jelly, while the gelatine will become hard. Or, place a small quantity in cold water. The pure will become cloudy and white, while the adulteration will become jelly-like and clear. ISINGLASS, To Melt.—To a quarter of a pound of isinglass take rather over a pint of water, into which throw the twelfth part of the white of an egg ; beat the water till it becomes white, throw the isinglass into the water, and place it over a very slow fire to melt. ITALIAN PUDDING.—Line a dish with puff-paste, pour in a pint of cream, add sufficient tin-bread or French rolls to thicken it, a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, sugar, eight or ten well-beaten eggs, a dozen sliced apples, and a couple of glasses of red wine. Bake for one hour in a moderate oven. ITCH, Lotions for.—Hydriodate of potash, two drams; distilled water, eight ounces. Apply frequently.