65 them uninflammable, or so slightly combustible that they would take fire very slowly, if at all, and would not burn with a flame. Wood sufficiently soaked in a strong solution of alum does not easily take fire, and the same is true of paper impregnated with it. FISH (BOILED). To Render it Firm.—Fish may be kept firm after it is cooked by adding a quarter of an ounce of ammonia to a gallon of the salt water in which it is to be boiled. FISH CAKES.—Put a good quantity of lard or dripping into a saucepan and make it hot. Then put into a basin one pound of mashed potatoes, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper ; stir in one ounce of hot butter. Remove the skin and bones from the fish, break it in flakes, and stir it in lightly with the potatoes; beat up an egg, and add sufficient to bind the whole together, but do not make it too moist ; divide it into small portions, and shape it on a floured board into cakes an inch thick. Brush over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry for about five minutes in the hot fat; drain, and serve garnished with fried parsley. FISH CURRIES.—Cut into thin slices two or three onions, fry them lightly, and put them into some good white stock, with some butter and curry powder, season with sugar, cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and salt, and boil the whole together ; strain into a clean saucepan, put in the fish, and boil it gently, shaking the pan occasionally, and taking care not to break the fish. Send to table on a dish surrounded with mashed potatoes or boiled rice. Rice should always accompany this dish. FISHES, To Preserve.—Make a clean opening in the belly of the fish and remove the entrails ; rub the inside well with pepper, and stuff the cavity with oakum. Small fishes may be preserved in spirits. FISH (GOLD).—Gold fish should be kept in ponds which are daily supplied with fresh river-water, and are well shaded with water-lilies. They may be shallow in most parts, but should be sunk to a good depth at others. In China it is common to feed them with lean pork, dried in the sun and reduced to a powder, and with small balls of paste, but they will exist upon the small worms alone which are common to the water. Sudden fright, loud noises, and strong smells are fatal to them. If the spawn is seen floating upqp the top of the pond it is advisable to take it off, put it in a glass globe and expose it to the heat of the sun to hatch. FISH (SALT), To Bake.—Soak three pounds of salt fish in plenty of cold water for twenty-four hours, changing the water several times. Steam the fish for half an hour; cut it into half a dozen pieces, and lay them in a baking-dish ; sprinkle them with two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs^the same quantity of finely-chopped parsley, a teaspoonful each of chopped herbs and pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg. Place some pieces of tat on the top, and bake for forty minutes. OT1/f *T SR°P,S-TSai ammonia> one pound ; prepared kali, a pound pints3 ha f ’ asafcetlda’ four ounces proof spirits, six pints. Distil to five FLANNEL ... (SCARLET), To Wash.—Make a soap jelly by cutting some soap up into soft water and placing it in a jar to melt in the P" into warm water and stir it to a lather; rub the flannel through! w thoat using any more soap ; rinse in clear warm water, wring it hard shake out well, and hang it up at once to dry—if in the house, not too near the FLANNEL. To Prevent the Shrinking of.—Put the new flannel fortnight1 'lCUt °Ut u°r garments)into clear cold water, keep it in‘for a fortnight, changing the water every alternate day, and then wash out the Snet£r„rrr^Sd WhC" ) 10