198 Or, acetate of potass, one dram ; essence of lemon, three drops ; oil of vitriol, twenty drops. VINEGAR (CHILI).—Infuse one ounce of cayenne pepper and a dozen cloves in a quart of vinegar. VINEGAR (COWSLIP).—To two gallons of lukewarm watet add three pounds of brown sugar and a quarter of a peck of cowslips, flowers and stalks together ; put the whole into a cask with two dessert- spoonfuls of yeast; lay a piece of slate over the bunghole, and set it in a warm place till the liquid turns sour, when the bung may be fastened down. Keep in a warm place, and in six months it will be ready for use. A dram of gelatine or isinglass will make it clear sooner. This vinegar will keep pickles nice and crisp. VINEGAR (GARLIC).—Put into a jar some finely-chopped garlic, pour upon it some strong vinegar, cover it over, and let it infuse for eight or ten days, shaking it frequently meanwhile. VINEGAR (GOOSEBERRY).—Crush a quart of ripe goose- berries, stir them into three quarts of water ; let stand for two days, then strain, add a pound and a half of sugar, put it into a cask, and let it remain for ten months, when it will be ready for use. VINEGAR (HORSE-RADISH).—Scraped horse-radish, an ounce and a half ; minced shallot, half an ounce ; cayenne pepper, half a dram ; vinegar, one pint. Let the whole be together for seven or eight days, then strain off for use. VINEGAR OF FOUR THIEVES.—Take of lavender, rose- mary, rue, sage and mint of each a handful, and white wine vinegar one gallon ; digest in a water-bath for eight days. The above takes its name from four persons who during a plague in Marseilles attended the sick for the sole purpose of robbery. They attributed their freedom from the disease to the use of this vinegar, and one of them escaped capital punish- ment by making the remedy known. VINEGAR (RASPBERRY).—Pour half a pint of vinegar over four pounds of raspberries, place in an earthen jar and cover securely, so that no air can enter ; set it in the sun for a couple of days ; then pour it into a flannel bag, and let the juice run through without pressure. To every pound of juice add a pound of loaf sugar ; boil for a quarter of an hour, or till the scum rises, then put it into small bottles and cork it securely. VINEGAR, To Flavour.—Infuse parsley, mustard, cress, mint, scraped horse-radish, or celery root, &c., in the best vinegar, before the fire, for forty-eight hours, and if the flavour is not then sufficiently strong, infuse more root or seed, as the case may be. VINES, The Treatment of.—Although grapes may be grown in the open when indulged with a warm situation, they flourish best when sheltered under glass. They may be pruned at the end of September. The method known as spur-pruning is generally employed. This consists in carrying up one leading shoot to the whole extent of the wall, either at one, two, or three years’ growth, leaving spurs or lateral shoots to develop themselves at regular intervals on the stem. The subsequent pruning is confined to cutting each of the spurs back to the last eye at the base of the shoot. VIOLET COLOUR, To Restore.—Brush the injured portion of the fabric with tincture of iodine, then after a few seconds well saturate the spot with a solution of hyposulphite of soda, and dry gradually. This will perfectly restore the colour removed from silk, &c., by acid juices. VIOLET (DOG’S-TOOTH).—Thisexceedinglypretty littleplant, with its pinkish flowers and handsome mottled leaves, deserves to be very generally cultivated. It simply requires to be set in a light soil, and to be