125 three or four hours, until the fruit is quite soft, then squeeze it througn a colander, and afterwards through a sieve. Put into jars, and cover with a piece of wet bladder. It is generally eaten with milk. MARMALADE (FRUIT).—Press out the juice; add lemon or orange juice, and sufficient sugar to sweeten the candy. Boil till it becomes transparent, removing the scum as it rises. White and red currants, or other fruit, may in this manner be made into delicious marmalade. MARMALADE (LEMON). —Peel some lemons, cut out the pulp from them, boil the rinds very tender, and beat them fine. Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, remove the scum as it rises, then add one pound of the rind, and boil it fast till the syrup is very thick, stirring in one direction meanwhile. Now mix a pint of the pulp and juice (but no pips) with a pint of apple liquor, and boil the whole together for half an hour, or till it has jellied. MARMALADE (ORANGE).—Take three pounds of Seville oranges, peel off the rind and cut it into very thin chips about half an inch long, and divide the pulp into small pieces. Put the chips and pulp into an earthen vessel, and pour over them three quarts of boiling water. Let them remain for twelve or fifteen hours, then turn the whole into a pre- serving-pan and boil until the chips are tender ; add by degrees six pounds of sugar, previously powdered, and boil the marmalade until it jellies. MARROW BONES, To Serve.—Saw the bones into convenient sizes, cover the ends with dough, tie them up in a floured cloth, boil them an hour and a half, and serve on a napkin with dry toast. MARROW PUDDING.—Cut one pound of beef marrow into thin slices ; beat up four eggs ; add a glass of brandy, with sugar and nut- meg to taste, and the crumbs of a penny loaf ; pour a pint of boiling cream upon the whole. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, and stick small pieces of candied orange and citron over the top before serving. MARSHMALLOW POULTICES, for Preventing Gangrene or Mortification.—Cut some fresh roots of the plant into thin pieces, bruise them in a mortar, and boil the pulp in milk, adding sufficient slippery elm to give it consistence. MARVEL OF PERU.—Sow the seed on a covered hot-bed in spring, and in June plant out in rich sound loam. They require all the sun they can get, and to be kept well sheltered from the rain. The tubers may be taken up in November, and replanted the beginning of the following May. The night-scented species emits after sunset a powerful odour some- what resembling heliotrope. MEAD.—Dissolve one part of honey in three parts of boiling water, flavour with spice and a little ground malt Dip a piece of toasted bread in yeast, lay it on the top of the liquor for a week, or till fermenta- tion has ceased, when it will be fit to drink. It will keep well if bottled. MEASLES.—The symptoms of measles are severe cold in the head, with sneezing and cough ; eyes red and watery and very sensitive to the light ; eyelids swollen ; the patient feels chilly, cold, and shivery, then hot, dry, and feverish, and complains of headache. On the third day small red spots appear on the chin, eyelids, and forehead ; on the fourth day a similar eruption is seen on the hands, arms, and other parts of the body. Upon close examination these spots will be found to be crescent-shaped, and when touched will feel slightly elevated above the skin. This rash con- tinues for three days, then turns brown, and the skin crumbles off like bran. The disease is frequently attended with diarrhoea, which must not be inter- fered with unless it becomes too severe. In treating, confine the child to one room, well shaded from any strong light. Take the greatest care to