”5 pound of spirits of rosemary, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, and two drams of red sanders ; then strain. Dose : Fifty to eighty drops on sugar. LAVENDER SCENT BAG.—Take of lavender flowers, free from stalk, half a pound ; dried thyme and mint, each half an ounce ; ground cloves and carraways, each a quarter of an ounce ; salt, dried, one ounce. Mix, and sew up in silk or cambric bags. LAVENDER, To Propagate.—Take slips from the parent plant in March or April, plant them in pots, and stand them in a shady situation till they have taken root, after which they may be exposed to the sun till they are strong enough to be transplanted to their destined position. LAVENDER WATER, To Distil.—Procure a four-ounce glass retort, either stoppered or corked, also a Florence flask, having a neck of sufficient width to admit of the tube of the retort being inserted to within an inch of the bottom of the flask. Place an ounce of lavender flowers in the retort, then add sufficient spirits of wine to thoroughly moisten them. Next fit the flask on to the retort tube, and immerse the flask in a bowl of very cold water. Apply heat to the retort and distil. When the distillate ceases to give an odour of lavender the operation is complete. LAWNS, To Destroy Worms in.—Put five pounds of newly-slaked lime into about fifteen gallons of water, let it settle, and use the clear liquid. LAWNS, To Extirpate Docks and Dandelions from.—Cut them down to the ground in the spring, and place a little gas-tar or a pinch of salt on the newly-made wound. LEAD OINTMENT.—Pound to a fine powder three drams of sugar of lead and mix it with a few spoonfuls of olive oil; grind well in a mortar, and put over the fire with half a pint of olive oil and two ounces of white wax ; melt together, and stir till quite cold. Useful to dry up wounds and to form a new skin. LEAD TREE, To Make a.—Put half an ounce of sugar of lead, in powder, into a large phial filled with water ; add ten drops of nitric acid, and shake the mixture well. Then pass a string through the cork of the phial and tie on to the end of it a piece of zinc about the size of a hazel-nut ; twist once or twice round the zinc a piece of fine copper wire, and let the end of the wire depend from it in any agreeable form. Place the zinc and wire so that it shall hang as near as possible to the axis of the phial, and so that it does not touch either the sides, top, or bottom. Let the whole rest quietly until metallic lead deposits itself on the zinc and along the wire. LEATHER, Black Balls for.—Melt a quarter of a pound of tallow and two pounds of beeswax ; then mix a quarter of a pound of lamp- black with the same weight of gum-arabic, and when the tallow and wax are growing cool stir the whole together, and roll into balls. LEATHER (BLACK), To Revive.—Hand-bags, leather seats, and such like things, may be made to look equal to new in the following manner:—Mix a tablespoonful of gin with a tablespoonful of sugar, and thicken it with ivory black ; then add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, well beaten. Stir the whole together and use as common blacking, leaving the articles a couple of days to dry. LEATHER (ENAMELLED), To Polish.—To two parts of cream add one part of linseed oil; make them lukewarm, and mix them well together. Clean off all dirt from the leather, rub it over with a sponge dipped in the mixture, then rub it with a dry cloth until a polish is obtained. LEATHER, To Preserve.—The occasional application of a little neatsfoot oil will prevent leather from becoming hard and cracking.