89 after this separate the shoulders by passing the knife between the joint and the trunk. Divide the head by inserting the knife at the top, and cut it through in the direction of the nose, first separating the upper from the under jaw. The head, brains, and ears (which should be cut off close to the roots) are by some persons considered dainty morsels. When the hare is young the back is divided at the joints into three or four parts, after being freed from the ribs and under-skin. It has lately become the fashion to bone hares before sending them to table. The stuffing, to be sent with every plate, will be found inside the belly. HARES, To Choose.—Hares intended to be roasted should be young ; when old they are only fit to be stewed. In order to judge of their age feel the first joint of the fore claw; if a small nut can be felt, the animal is still of a tender age ; should this nut have disappeared, turn the claw sideways, if the joint crack, the hare is young. When these indications are wanting, it is a sign of age. HARICOT BEANS AND MINCED ONIONS.—Soak a pint of haricot beans in cold water all night; put them into a saucepan with a little butter and two quarts of cold water, boil gently for two hours, and drain them in a colander. Peel three onions, cut them into small pieces, and fry them in butter a light brown colour ; stir in a teaspoonful of flour ; add a gill of brown gravy, season with pepper and salt, and stir it until it boils and thickens ; put in the beans, mix the whole, and serve as hot as possible. HARNESS (BLACK), Polish for.—One dram of indigo, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, half an ounce of soft soap, four ounces of glue, a pennyworth of logwood raspings, and a quart of vinegar. Boil the whole on a stove till reduced to a pint. Apply with a sponge. HARNESS, Composition for.—Melt twelve ounces of beeswax and a quarter of a pound of mutton suet ; add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of soft soap dissolved in water, and two ounces of finely-powdered indigo. Mix well together, then add half a pint turpentine. Apply with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. HARNESS (FADED), To Restore.—Faded harness may be restored to a good condition by applying a mixture of logwood and bichro- mate of potass, or powdered Aleppo galls, with a little alum. HARNESS, To Clean.—Sponge off all the dirt, then apply with a soft brush a mixture of rotten-stone, pulverised charcoal, and Galipoli oil ; wipe with a soft cloth, and polish off with prepared charcoal. The brass ornaments may be cleaned with equal parts of nitric acid, sulphuric acid, and water, applied with a woollen cloth tied on to a stick ; let the mixture remain on for a moment, then wash it off, and polish with a leather. HARVEST BUGS, Bites from.—A little benzine sprinkled over the stockings will prevent these insects from attacking the flesh. If this precaution has been neglected and a bite has resulted, by no means scratch the place, but bear the irritation until benzine can be obtained, the applica- tion of which will immediately kill the insect. A small drop of tincture of iodine has the same effect. HASTY PUDDING (BAKED).—Stir half a pound of flour into a pint of cold milk, pour it into a saucepan, and bring it to a boil ; let it stand till cold, then add two well-beaten eggs, a little spice, and sugar enough to sweeten ; mix well, pour into cups, and bake. HASTY PUDDINGS (BOILED).—Grate some bread, and finely chop a little suet, add a few currants, the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon peel, and ginger ; mix, and form it into balls about the size of an egg, with a little flour ; put them into boiling 13