25 BUNS (GRETNA).—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add a gill of yeast, and sufficient water to form a dough. Set it to rise, form into cakes, and bake on greased tins in a sharp oven. BUNS (HOT CROSS), To Make.—Yeast, one ounce and a half; milk, one pint ; sugar, half a pound ; flour, half a pound ; hot water, one pint. Mix, and stand it in a warm place for twenty minutes, or till it rises and falls again. Then rub half a pound of butter or lard into three pounds of flour, and add twelve drops of essence of spice. Mix the whole together. Stand the dough in a warm place till it rises, then form into buns, place in flat tins, cross the dough with the back of a knife, make the buns rise by means of steam, and bake in a sharp oven for five or six minutes. BURNET, To Propagate.—This small culinary and salad herb may be increased by seed sown in April, by slips, or by parting the roots in spring or autumn, and setting them six to nine inches apart. BURNS AND SCALDS.—Pour white of egg over the wTound. This will prevent inflammation and exclude the air, and so remove the extreme discomfort experienced from accidents of this kind. BURNS AND SCALDS, Liniment for.—Put into a bottle equal quantities of linseed or Florence oil and lime-water ; shake well together ; soak a piece of lint in the mixture, and apply two or three times a day. BURNS AND SCALDS, Ointment for.—Mix as much prepared chalk as possible into some lard, so that it forms a thick ointment. BURNS, Brown-paper Oil for.—Dip some thick brown paper in salad oil, put it upon a plate, and set it alight. Apply the oil that is left upon the plate. BURNS, Cerate for.—Melt together half a pound of yellow wax and a pint of olive oil. When the mixture begins to thicken, add it to half a pound of prepared calamine, and stir till cold. BURNS FROM LIME, To Treat.—Bathe with vinegar and water, then apply chalk mixed with linseed oil to the consistence of treacle, and renew the application from time to time. BURNS FROM VITRIOL OR OTHER ACIDS.—Sponge the part as quickly as possible with lime-water, whiting and water, car- bonate of soda and water, or chalk and water. If nothing else be handy use old mortar mixed with water. Then apply a mixture of chalk and oil. BURNS, Plaster for.—Mix sufficient linseed oil with common whiting to form a piaster, and apply to the injured part. The pain will subside and a skin will speedily form. BUTTER (MELTED), French Method of Making.—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, half a gill of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. Set it over the fire to thicken, but do not let it boil, as it might taste of the flour. BUTTER (MELTED), To Make.—Beat up two ounces of butter and a dessert-spoonful of flour with two tablespoonfuls of milk and a little pepper and salt. When thoroughly mixed add two tablespoonfuls of water (or a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, according to the purpose for which it is required), set it on the fire, and stir till it is as thick as good cream. It should not be allowed to boil. BUTTER (RANCID), To Sweeten.—Dissolve a little lime in water. Take some of the water off when clear, wash the butter in it and then wash it again in clear water. It may likewise be restored by melting it in a bath of water, with some coarsely-powdered animal charcoal (which has been thoroughly sifted from dust), and afterwards straining it through a flannel 5