197 draw it back and let it simmer for an hour, and thicken with flour and butter, or a few spoonfuls of cream. It may be served as it is or coloured with spinach juice. VEILS (WHITE), To Wash.—Make a strong lather of curd soap and water, and simmer the veil therein for a quarter of an hour ; then squeeze out the soap, and rinse it first in clear water and afterwards in blue water ; pass it through a little thin starch or rice water, shake and flap it, and pin it on a clean cloth ; when dry, cover it with a cambric handkerchief and iron it on the wrong side. VELVET, To Restore the Pile of.—When the pile of velvet has become flattened by pressure it may be made to assume its original beauty by holding it over a basin of hot water, with the lining downwards. VENICE TURPENTINE.—To five parts of oil of turpentine add eight parts of common yellow or black rosin. Mix. VENISON (HAUNCH OF), To Carve.—Make an incision across the knuckle end, so as to let the gravy flow ; then cut thin slices the whole length of the haunch. The fat, which is highly prized, is found chiefly on the left side. The choicest part of the joint is on the side where the fat is found, and is known as the Alderman’s Walk. Buck venison is in greatest perfection from Midsummer to Michaelmas, and doe venison from November to January. VENISON, To Choose.—When young, the fat is clear, bright, and of considerable thickness, and the cleft part is close and smooth. If the cleft is wide and tough the buck is an old one. Its sweetness may be ascertained by running an iron skewer into the haunch and then smelling it. VENTILATION. — It is absolutely necessary to distinguish between ventilation and draught. The former is essential to health, whilst the latter is often the immediate cause of sickness and death. To obtain the access of fresh air to a room without a treacherous current of wind, cut two pieces of wood the length of the window sash, with a depth of three or four inches and about two inches thick ; open the window from the top, insert one of the pieces of wood lengthways, and make it secure by closing the sash upon it, then open the bottom portion of the window and insert the other piece of wood lengthways, and close the sash upon this also. By this means the air will enter freely yet gently from the centre. VERDIGRIS, To Procure.—Immerse some copper plates in strong vinegar and let them stand uncovered until they are converted into a bluish-green powder, then dissolve the powder in acetic acid and crystallise it. VERMILION (ARTIFICIAL), To Make.—Mix ground mineral cinnabar with aqua-vitae and urine, then dry it, and again grind it up. VINEGAR.—To one gallon of water add one pound of moist sugar, and boil the same for ten minutes, skimming it as long as there is occasion. Then pour it into a large sweet tub and when it is lukewarm work it with two spoonfuls of yeast for twenty-four hours, and set it before the fire or in the heat of the sun. When ready, pour it into stone bottles and cork securely. The following old-fashioned way may also be reverted to :—Add half a pound of moist sugar to half a pound of treacle, two spoonfuls of yeast, and one gallon of milk-warm water. Place a vinegar plant (which is a sort of incrustation which forms in beer barrels or in vinegar which has been allowed to stand still for some time) on the top of this mixture, tie it down closely with brown paper, and keep it in the dark for a month, when it will be ready for use. VINEGAR (AROMATIC).—Strong vinegar, six ounces; cam- phor, half a dram ; spirits of wine, sufficient to dissolve the camphor.