RECIPES. — ■ «♦— ACIDITY OF THE STOMACH.—This unpleasant disorder gives rise to heart-burn, flushings of the face, and other unpleasant sensa- tions. It is most readily cured by taking two teaspoonfuls of magnesia in a tumbler of milk or water, the former is better. ACONITE (WINTER); or, New Year’s Gift.—This bright yellow, early-flowering plant thrives best in a somewhat damp and shady situation, such as under trees or shrubs. It does not bear to be disturbed too often ; but it is advisable to renew the surface of the soil every other year. In transplanting, take up a large patch, so as to insure having a sufficient amount of “ eyes ” to propagate the plant. As the whole family of aconites, both yellow and blue, are poisonous, they should not be grown where there are children. ACORNS, To Plant.—The latter part of October or the beginning of November is the most favourable time for sowing acorns. If they are kept out of the ground longer they are liable to sprout. Should the season be inclement they may be kept in the dry till spring, and planted in the middle of March or the beginning of April in beds of light earth at a depth of an inch and a half. iEOLIAN HARP, To Make an.—Make a box of very thin deal wood, five inches deep, six inches wide, and of a length exactly answering to the window in which it is intended to be placed. Glue on to it at the top extremities two pieces of wainscot, about half an inch high and a quarter of an inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings, and within-side of each end glue two pieces of beech about an inch square and equalling in length the width of the box, which is to hold the pegs. Into one of these bridges fix as many pegs (such as are used for pianofortes will do) as there are strings, and into the other fasten as many brass pins, to which attach one end of the strings (first fiddle strings answer well) and twist the other end round the opposite peg. The strings, which should not be drawn tight, must be tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind, a thin board, supported by four pegs, is placed over the strings, at about three inches distant from the sounding-board. The instrument must be exposed to the wind at a partially-opened window, and to increase the force of the current of air, either the door of the room or an opposite window should be opened. When the wind blows the strings begin to sound in unison, but as the force of the current increases the sound changes into a pleasing admixture of all the notes of the diatonic scale, ascending and descending, and often uniting in the most delightful harmony. AGAPANTHUS.—This plant bears a handsome head of lovely blue flowers in July, and continues to bloom throughout the summer if indulged with plenty of water, of which it is very greedy. It requires a 2