MOUTH-WASH (EAU-BOTOL).—To half a pint of tincture of cedar-wood add two fluid ounces each of tincture of rhatany and tincture of myrrh, and three drops of otto of peppermint MOUTH-WASH (VIOLET).—Mix equal quantities of tincture of orris, spirits of roses, and common spirit, with a few drops of otto of almonds. MUFFINS.—Put a pint and a half of ale yeast in water, let it lie all night, and in the morning pour the water off; then pour on to the yeast two gallons of lukewarm water, add two ounces of salt, and stir the whole together for a quarter of an hour. Strain, and with a bushel of flour make a light dough, leaving it for an hour to rise. Roll it with the hand ; pull it into pieces about the size of a large walnut; roll these out thin in a good quantity of flour; cover them at once with a piece of flannel, and when they have risen to their proper size proceed with the baking. MULLET (GREY).—These may be either boiled, broiled, baked, or roasted. When small, they are usually cooked like whitings ; when large, after the manner of salmon or cod. MULLET (RED).—First clean the fish, but do not remove the inside, fold it in oil paper, and bake it gently in a dish ; then make a sauce of the liquor which comes from the fish, adding a piece of butter, a little flour, a glass of sherry or other light wine, and a little essence of anchovies ; give it a boil, and serve in a sauce-boat. The fish is sometimes sent to table with lobster sauce or anchovy sauce. They are generally served without the papers. They may also be boiled or broiled, but the above method preserves the delicacy of the fish. MUMPS.—This complaint is an inflammatory affection of the salival glands, particularly the largest, which is situated below the ear. The symptoms of the malady are a slight feverish sensation, accompanied with pain and swelling, extending from beneath the ear, along the neck, to the chin. It usually reaches its height in four days, and then declines. A light diet should be administered, together with gentle laxatives and occasional hot fomentations. MURIATE OF AMMONIA, To Test its Purity.—Place a small quantity on a red-hot iron plate. If pure it will fly off in a vapour, leaving behind scarcely any residuum. MUSHROOMS, Essence of.—Take a sufficient quantity of either flap or button mushrooms, sprinkle them with salt, let them stand for three hours, then mash them. Next day strain off the liquor that will have flowed from them, put it into a stew-pan, and boil it to half its quantity. This will not keep long, but is very delicate in flavour. MUSHROOMS (PICKLED).—Rub the large button kind with salt and a piece of flannel, throw a little salt over them, and simmer them over a slow fire ; shake them constantly until they have absorbed the liquor which came from them, then add enough vinegar to cover them ; when warm, turn the whole into a jar, let stand till cold, and tie down. They may thus be kept for a considerable time. MUSHROOM POWDER, for Soups.—Peel some large thick button mushrooms, spread them on dishes, and bake in a slow oven till dry ; then pound them in a mortar with a little cayenne pepper and mace ; put into a bottle, and store in a dry place. MUSHROOM SPAWN.—Make a bed of horse-droppings, with- out the straw, a foot thick, let it remain in a heap for a few days, then spread it out to dry, turning it a few times till it is three parts dry, when it will be fit for forming the bed, which must be firmly beaten together with the back of the spade, so as to prevent the temperature rising too high. When the heat has risen to its maximum, and again fallen to