193 TRIPE (BOILED).—Boil it up in milk, then thicken with flour and butter, and serve with onion sauce poured over, or if preferred boiled onions may be sent to table with it. TRIPE (FRIED).—Cut the tripe into pieces of equal size, boil them till tender, let them grow cold, then dip them in egg and bread crumbs, and fry to a nice pale brown. TRIPE, To Prepare.—In order to preserve the rich flavour of tripe, as well as its most nourishing properties, the fat should be allowed to remain. Hang the bellies in a cool place until the day they are required, then scrape off all the rough dirt with a blunt knife until the honeycomb is arrived at. Root out of these cells every particle of dirt with a dull-pointed knife, occasionally dipping the tripe into boiling water, of which there must be a plentiful supply. By this means it will be rendered perfectly clean and sweet without any artificial means. When it has been washed in several waters it will be ready for cooking. TULIPS, The Cultivation of.—Cut a trench about four feet wide, lay down a few inches of shingle, so as to insure drainage, and fill up the bed with a compost of fresh loam, leaf mould, river sand, and cows’ dung, all previously thoroughly mixed together. The bed should slope down gently from the centre, and the edges stand a couple of inches above the level of the ground. It needs renewing every year. Plant the bulbs at the beginning of October, and protect them from frost and heavy rain by canvas supported by hoops. Let them remain in the ground till the leaves have completely withered, then take up the bulbs, dry them thoroughly in the shade, and store them in an airy place till required for re-setting. With a proper amount of caution the bulbs may be left in the ground all the winter, but they are safer under cover, and the ground can then be utilized for other purposes. TURBOT, To Carve.—The fish having been sent to table with the under side upwards, insert the knife just above the head, and carry it lengthwise to the tail, cutting to the depth of the backbone; then place the knife in the centre of the fish, and cut it crosswise in slices, serving a piece of the fin with each slice. After the whole of the under side has been served, lift the backbone with the fork and separate a portion of the fish with the slice or knife. This side of the fish being firmer is preferred by some, but the under side is the more delicate in flavour. The finest cuts are those from the middle.. TURKEY POULT (ROAST).—This is not stuffed before it is cooked. If put before a clear fire it will be done in twenty minutes. Serve with bread sauce. TURKEY (ROAST), with Chestnuts.—Draw and truss the bird as in the ordinary way for roasting. Boil fifty chestnuts until tender, remove their shells, take off the skin, and mince them very fine. Next take the marrow from two marrow-bones, cut it up small, mix it with the minced chestnuts, and stuff the turkey with the mixture. Protect the breast from scorching by fixing thereon a piece of buttered paper, and baste frequently. When nearly done, remove the paper, baste the bird well with butter, sprinkle a little salt over it, and dredge with flour. When nicely browned dish up and serve with brown gravy separately. Time, about two hours. TURKEY, To Carve.—Cut slices from each side of the breast, lengthways down to the ribs, and, with thin portions of the stuffing, hand them to the ladies, serving the gentlemen with a slice from the breast, and one from the inner part of the thigh. The white portion of the wing is by many esteemed a great delicacy, and is often chosen in preference to the breast. Where sausages or forced-meat balls are placed on the dish they should be served to each person. 26