103 Equal parts of lime-water and linseed oil will also allay the irritation. Or, after washing the body in warm water, apply the following :—Lime, two ounces ; sulphur-vivum, two ounces. Mix. Pour off the clear liquid for use. ITCH, Remedy for.—Flowers of brimstone, two ounces ; carbonate of potash, two drams; lard, four ounces. Mix, and add two or three drops of essence of lemon. Should the brimstone be considered unpleasant, use in its stead two ounces of white hellebore powder. To be rubbed into the body. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Black.—Boil the article for some time in a strained decoction of logwood, and then steep it in a solution of persulphate or acetate of iron. For common purposes it may simply be steeped in ink till the desired depth of colour is obtained. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Blue.—If the articles be steeped in a solution of sulphate of indigo or soluble Prussian blue, they will acquire a blue tint, the depth of which will, of course, depend upon the strength of the bath and the time they are allowed to be immersed. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Green.—Boil in a solution of verdigris in vinegar until the desired colour is obtained. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Purple.—Mix two parts of nitric acid with one part of sal ammoniac, and steep the article therein until the proper hue is obtained. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Red.—First imbue the article with a solution of nitromuriate of tin, then put it into a bath of Brazil wood and cochineal. If a scarlet dye is required, use lac-dye ; and if a cherry red be wanted, first dye it scarlet, and then plunge it into a solution of potash. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Yellow.—Steep the article for some time, first in a solution of sugar of lead, and afterwards in a solution of chromate of potassium. IVORY ORNAMENTS, To Clean.—Scrub the articles with a soft brush in soap and water, and stand them in the sunshine to dry. As soon as all moisture has disappeared, throw some soapsuds over them, and dry as before. Repeat the operation for two or three days, when a final washing will remove all discolouration. Where time is a consideration, or at such seasons when the sun has but little power, the ornaments may be bleached by immersing them for a short time in water containing a little sulphurous acid or chloride of lime—about one pound of lime to a quart of water. IVORY, To Polish.—Scour it with the finest sand-paper, then moisten some whiting with oil, and apply with a piece of smooth flannel, rubbing it well, and finish off with a slightly oiled linen rag. IVORY, To Render it Soft and Flexible.—Place the ivory in a solution of phosphoric acid of 1*30 specific gravity, and let it remain until it assumes a transparent aspect ; then remove it from the acid, wash it in clear water, and dry it in a soft linen cloth. It will thus become as soft as thick leather, will harden in the open air, but will again become soft by immersing it in warm water. IVORY, To Whiten.—Discoloured ivory may be restored by boiling it for one hour in a saturated solution of alum in water ; then take it out and carefully wipe it with a hair cloth, to prevent its cracking. It should not, however, be wiped quite dry, or the object will be defeated. It may likewise be restored to its former whiteness by cleaning it with powdered burnt pumice-stone and water, and afterwards placed under glass in the rays of the sun.