55 Oil of juniper may be taken for the same complaint in doses of from ten to fifteen drops every four hours. DRUNKENNESS, To Cure.—Sulphate of iron, five grains; magnesia, ten grains ; peppermint water, eleven drams ; spirit of nutmeg, one dram. The above forms one draught; two draughts to be taken each day. Take half an ounce of solution of acetate of ammonia in a tumbler of water, sweetened to taste ; or a tablespoonful of hartshorn, taken as above. The following remedy is also considered very effectual:—Red Peruvian bark, soaked and diluted in alcohol, then drained and evaporated to half its original quantity. A tablespoonful to be taken the first and second days, and during the next week or ten days the dose is gradually reduced to about five or six drops. This not only produces a dislike to drink, but leaves no taste. DUCKS (BOILED).—Boil the bird for about half an hour in plain water with just a pinch of salt. When ready for table, pour upon it a good quantity of onion sauce, to which has been added a cupful of rich brown gravy and a spoonful of lemon juice. Some cooks add a little walnut ketchup to the sauce. Ducks may also be boiled with turnips or green peas. DUCKS (HASHED).—Chop up an onion and put it into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter ; fry lightly, then add sufficient boiling water to make sauce for the hash ; thicken with flour, put the limbs of the bird into the sauce with a little ketchup, salt, and pepper, and when the flesh is hot serve with apple sauce. DUCKS (ROAST).—Plunge the duck for a minute in boiling water, skin it, and dean the inside with warm water ; stuff, and roast before a brisk fire till the breast plumps, or from thirty minutes to an hour, accord- ing to size and age. Serve with good brown gravy. DUCKS, To Carve.—Ducks, when large, are carved in the same fashion as geese, but when small they are helped out as chickens. DUCKS, To Choose.—Ducks are best towards November, when they begin to get fat. The feet should be supple, and the breasts hard and plump. The feet of tame ducks are yellow ; those of wild ones red. DUCK STUFFING.—Chop very fine an apple, an onion, and an ounce of sage leaves ; add six ounces of bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, an egg, and a little pepper and salt. DUCKS, WILD (ROAST).—Pluck the bird, removing all the plugs, draw, and pour warm water through the body so as to thoroughly clean it; roast before a brisk fire for half an hour. The breast and the wings are the most palatable parts, which should be served with sliced lemon ; the other parts possess a strong flavour. DUMPLINGS (DOUGH).—Take dough prepared as for bread, cut it into small pieces, and drop it into boiling water ; boil for twenty minutes. Serve with butter and sugar or treacle. DUMPLINGS (DROP).—Beat up two or three eggs, add a gill of milk, mix with half a pound of flour and a little salt to a stiff batter, and drop by spoonfuls into the liquor in which beef or pork is being cooked; boil for ten minutes and serve with the meat. DUMPLINGS (HARD).—Make a paste of flour and small beer, and a little salt, roll it into small balls, and boil them in beef gravy for half an hour. Serve with sugar and melted butter. Water may be substi- tuted for the small beer, and they are sometimes put into boiling water instead of beef gravy. DUMPLINGS (LIGHT).—These are made in the same manner as hard dumplings, with the exception that a little suet and baking-powdel