io6 If the kid is not much soiled rub it with a piece of flannel dipped in hartshorn and white curd soap. JELLIES (FRUIT), Hints on.—All jellies made from red frute must be worked cold, and be placed upon ice as soon as possible. Tin moulds should never be used, as they change the colour into a dirty blue and spoil the taste of the fruit ; earthen moulds preserve both colour and taste. The isinglass is best clarified while it is melting, as by adopting this plan there is less waste and the jellies are brighter. JELLY (APPLE).—Take about two dozen apples, pare and core them, and boil in a pint and a half of water till quite tender ; strain the liquor, and to every pint add a pound of fine sugar, a little cinnamon, and a few drops of lemon juice. Boil to a jelly. JELLY (ARROWROOT).—Make a paste with a tablespoonful of arrowroot and cold water ; add to it a pint of boiling water in which a little lemon peel has been boiled ; stir briskly, pour it into a saucepan and boil for a few minutes. A glass of sherry may be added with a little sugar ; or, for infants, a couple of drops of essence of caraway seed or cinnamon may be substituted. This simple jelly is very nourishing. JELLY (BREAD), or Panada.—Pour into boiling water a glass of sherry, add a bit of lemon peel, grated nutmeg, and bread crumbs; sweeten with sugar, and boil the whole of the ingredients together over a quick fire. This last injunction must be carefully followed, otherwise the panada will break instead of jellying. JELLY (BLACKBERRY).—Boil two quarts of blackberries in two quarts of water, bruising the berries with a wooden spoon ; strain through a fine linen bag, and boil the syrup for five minutes ; then to each pint of juice add a pound of sugar ; boil for a quarter of an hour, remov- ing the scum as it rises ; pour into pots, cover with brandy papers, and tie down. JELLY (BLACK CURRANT).—Put the fruit into a preserving- pan with a little water, and when the currants are hot through, press them little by little until all the juice is extracted ; measure the juice, and for each pint allow one pound of sugar ; mix, and boil gently for ten minutes, stirring continually ; pour into moulds, and cover with paper soaked with brandy. JELLY (CALVES’ FEET).—Clean, prepare, and boil two feet in a gallon of water for eight hours, removing the scum as it rises. When sufficiently tender, strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and let it remain undisturbed till the next day ; then remove the fat and wipe the jelly dry with a cloth. Next dissolve the jelly and stir into it a wineglassful of good old sherry or two tablespoonfuls of pale brandy. Beat up the whites and crush the shells of three eggs into three-quarters of a pint of cold spring water. Stir this liquid into the jelly, and allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes ; after this, let it settle for five minutes, then strain. A pinch of isinglass added to the shells and whites of the eggs will give the jelly a greater substance. JELLY (CHERRY).—Take the stones from four pounds of cherries, add two pounds of red currants ; press the juice out through a canvas bag, then put it into a saucepan with two pounds of crushed sugar and an ounce of isinglass, and boil slowly for fifteen minutes, removing the scum as it rises ; finally, run it through the jelly bag. JELLY (CRYSTAL).—Rub off the essence from the rinds of two lemons upon lumps of sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, and crush the shells. Simmer over the fire an ounce and a half of isinglass, dissolved in a pint of water, adding the sugar, eggs, &c., and half a pint ol lemon juice, strained. When the jelly has simmered for a few minutes,