ICJ1 TOILET POWDER, A Good.—A wholesome powder for the nursery may be made by mixing equal quantities of fullers' earth, starch, and rice flour. It may be scented with violets, or any other perfume, or used in its raw state. TOILET VINEGAR.—With one dram of essence of bergamot, one ounce of essence of rosemary, and one dram of marjoram, mix half a rpint of pale rum, then add half a pint of best white vinegar, and one pint of rose water. This vinegar will be found very refreshing. TOMATOES, How to Prepare.—Cut some good ripe tomatoes into slices, sprinkle them with finely pulverized white sugar, and add sufficient claret wine to cover them. Diluted vinegar is often used in place of the claret, but the wine imparts a rich and pleasant flavour, somewhat resembling the strawberry. TOMATOES, OR LOVE APPLES, To Grow.—These tender plants are raised from seed sown in hotbeds in March or April, and trans- planted in May in the open ground in a sunny situation, or trained against a south wall. They produce ripe fruit in the autumn. TOMATOES, To Pickle.—Cut into slices half a peck of green tomatoes ; then take half a gallon of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of whole cloves, two of allspice, one of salt, two small teaspoonfuls of mace, and the same amount of cayenne pepper. Boil the vinegar and spices for ten minutes, then put in the tomatoes, and boil all together for a quarter of an hour. When cold put into jars. TONGUE (THE), an Index of Health.—A yellow-coated tongue indicates a disordered liver ; a strawberry tongue discloses scarlet fever ; a fissured one, enteric fever; a brown or black tongue marks blood- poisoning ; a dryness of the tongue shows feverishness ; and a white-coated tongue, although it may occur in health, is generally a sign of a disordered stomach. When the tongue cleans gradually from the edge it is a favour- able sign. TONGUES, To Pickle.—Cut away the roots, leaving on only a little of the fat and kernel. Sprinkle with salt, and lay them to drain for twenty-four hours ; then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, and half as much saltpetre ; rub the tongues well with the pickle every day for a week, then add more salt, and rub them in like manner for another seven days ; or they may be simply laid in the brine and turned daily, but this method is not so expeditious. See also under Beef Tongues. TONIC, A Simple.—Steep an ounce of cascarilla bark, and the same weight of orange peel in a pint of proof spirits. Let it stand for a couple of weeks, then decant. Take a tablespoonful in a wineglass of water twice a day. TONIC.—Citrate of iron and quinine, one tablespoonful; water, a pint and a half. Mix. A wineglassful to be taken three times a day. TOOTHACHE, To Prevent.—Rub the teeth and gums well night and morning, and after dinner with a hard brush dipped in flour of sulphur. This is void of any unpleasant smell, and preserves the teeth. TOOTHACHE, To Relieve.—Dissolve a piece of camphor in oil of turpentine ; put a few drops on a piece of wool, and insert it in the hollow of the tooth. It generally gives almost instant relief. A small piece of stick caustic, about the size of a pin's head, inserted into the hollow of the tooth will give quick relief, and after two or three applications the toothache will wholly cease. Two or three drops of essential oil of cloves on a piece of lint, inserted in the hollow of the tooth will give relief, without injuring either the tooth or the gums. A small piece of solid opium will also take away the pain.