5 tobacco, lime-water, or gas tar-water. Ladybirds should at all times receive protection, as they destroy large quantities of aphides. APPLE CHIPS, To Prepare.—Peel and core a number of apples, cut them into thin slices, and bake them in an oven till quite hard. They will keep good in this state for two or three years. When required for use, steep them in hot water. APPLE DUMPLINGS (BAKED).—Peel half a dozen good- sized apples, and core without cutting them into quarters. Next, put into a basin three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of baking powder ; rub in a quarter of a pound of dripping, and add sufficient water to form a light, firm paste. Put it on a floured board ; flour it, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, cut it in rounds, put an apple in each round, and fill with sugar and two cloves ; work the paste smoothly over the apples, place the dumplings on a greased tin, and bake in a hot oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. When done put them on a hot dish, and sprinkle them with caster sugar. APPLE DUMPLINGS (BOILED).—Make them as directed above, tie them in cloths, and boil them ; or they may be made with suet pudding crust. APPLE FOOL.—Peel and core the apples, stew them till quite tender, then beat them to a pulp, and add gradually a pint of milk, or half a pint of cream and a pint of milk. Serve in a glass dish. APPLE FRITTERS.—A* Fritters. APPLE PUDDING.—Chop up finely six ounces of beef suet, put it in a basin with a pound of flour and a little salt, mix it into a paste with water ; roll it thin upon a floured board, and fill with a pound and a half of cooking apples, add the grated rind and the juice of a lemon, or a little nutmeg and cinnamon ; tie in a cloth and boil for an hour and a half. APPLES (DRIED).—Take some nice large apples and put them into a very slow oven for several hours ; take them out occasionally and press them flat. Repeat the pressing until they are done. If they present a dry appearance, rub them over with clarified sugar. APPLE SYRUP.—Pare and cut into slices three pounds of ripe apples, and put them into a jar with nearly a pint of water and a pound and a quarter of sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of water and boil for three hours. When cold, flavour with lemon or orange flower water. APPLE TART.—Pare and core the apples, and boil the peel and cores in a small quantity of water until well flavoured; strain, add a little sugar and cinnamon, and simmer the liquor again. Place a layer of apples in a dish lined round the edges with puff paste, sprinkle with sugar, put in some chopped lemon peel, or cloves, if preferred, and a little lemon juice ; add the rest of the apples, more sugar, and the prepared liquor, cover with puff paste, and bake. When done, raise the crust, stir in a couple of ounces of fresh butter and two eggs, well beaten ; replace the crust, and serve. APPLES, To Preserve Fresh.—Dig a trench one foot below the surface of the ground ; cover the whole surface of the bottom and sides with tufts of grass, the grassy side upwards ; then fill the space with apples, making the heap highest in the centre, and sloping gently down at the sides, and cover them close with turf, the grassy side next the apples ; finally cover the ridge with soil a foot thick, to keep out the air and frost. By this method apples may be kept till April or May following the year in which they are gathered. APPLES, To Preserve the Colour of.—To prevent apples discolour- ing during the process of cooking immerse them for a quarter of an hour in cold water slightly tinctured with lemon juice.