This will also water to which has been added a teaspoonful of turpentine, prove a powerful auxiliary against germs and bad odours. DISINFECTING FUME.—Take of common salt, three ounces ; black manganese, one ounce ; oil of vitriol, one ounce ; and water, two ounces. Mix the whole. A little of the mixture carried in a cup through a sick room will remove all foul smells. DISINFECTING PERFUME.—Powder equal quantities of gum-benjamin, storax, and galban with oil of myrrh, and burn the mixture on a hot shovel or iron plate. DIURETIC DROPS.—Mix with one ounce of sweet spirits of nitre half an ounce of aromatic tincture. Fifty drops to be taken three times a day in a glass of water. These drops will be found valuable for promoting a natural flow of urine. DOCUMENTS, To Preserve.—Documents, deeds, and other writings may be kept proof from damp and consequent destruction by brushing a thin coating of gutta percha solution over both back and front of the paper. DODECATHEON ME ADI A, or American Cowslip.—This plant grows best in a partly shaded spot where it will not get too much wet nor remain dry. It delights in a mixture of one-third light loam and two-thirds heath mould. As its stem and leaves die away in the winter, it is advisable to mark its position by a stake or other means. DOGS, Remedies for Bites from.—Burn the wound with caustic, or, if this is not handy, with a red-hot iron, then apply poultices of common table salt and vinegar for three or four days, and allow the flesh to heal. The cautery is not half so painful as most people imagine. Or make a poultice of carbonate of soda ; or scrape the white incrustation from common soda, and apply to the part. Local or general bathing in either warm or cold water is likewise bene- ficial ; but a vapour bath is still more efficacious as a curative agent, by extracting the virus through the pores of the skin. The poison may also be extracted by the following method of dry- cupping :—Dip a piece of paper in spirits of wine, ignite it, throw it into a wineglass, and place the glass bottom upwards over the injured part. DOGS SUFFERING FROM DIARRHOEA, To Cure.— Sulphate of copper, one scruple ; tincture of catechu, two drams ; tincture of opium, two drams ; aromatic spirits of ammonia, three drams ; water, eight ounces. Give a teaspoonful, for a small dog, every four hours ; for a large dog one tablespoonful three times a day. Feed on strong beef tea, with rice water to drink. DOGS, To Destroy Insects on.—Rub the root of the tail with sharp Scotch snuff and the other parts of the coat with borax or oil of turpen- tine. Or dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, and rub the solution into the fur. DRESSES (FADED), To Restore.—Sal volatile or hartshorn will restore colour taken out by acid. It may be dropped upon any garment without injury. Black dresses may be renovated by boiling a handful of fig leaves in two quarts of water till it is reduced to half the quantity, and sponging them with the same. DRIPPING, To Clarify.—Melt the dripping, and pour upon it some boiling water. When cold the pure dripping will be found at the top of the water, while all impurities will fall to the bottom. DROPSY, To Relieve.—Bruise some juniper berries, put them into a jug, and pour upon them boiling water ; cover the jug closely, and when cold strain the liquid for use. Dose: From two to three ounces three times a day.