200 thickened skin which covers them, shaving it away till you come to the surface of the skin and till blood oozes from two or three parts, then rub the place thoroughly with lunar caustic. One application will generally be effectual, if not, cut off the black spot occasioned by the caustic and apply it again, or touch the spot with acetic acid. Another way :—Steep a very small piece of beef in vinegar for twenty- four hours ; fasten it over the wart with sticking plaster. Keep it on night and day for a week, when, upon removing the plaster, it will be found adhering to it. This application is said to remove the most desperate wart or corn, and leaves no scar. See also Corns, Simple Remedy for. WASHING FLUID, for Coarse Articles.—Boil for two hours in six quarts of water, half a pound of slacked lime and a pound of soda. Let it settle, then pour off the clear liquor for use. This fluid will be found very effectual in bringing the floors of rooms to a good colour. WASHING POWDERS.—The basis of all washing powders is the soda-ash of commerce, blended in variable proportions with Scotch soda. The best consist chiefly of the former article. Reduce the alkaline matter to a coarse powder, mix it with liquid size or with a decoction of linseed or Irish moss. Dry it, again crush it to a powder, and make it into packets as quickly as possible. An excellent washing powder can also be made by adding to common soda sufficient quicklime to make it partly caustic. WASP-GRUBS, To Preserve.—Anglers may preserve for a long time these tempting delicacies for trout and basking chub by baking the comb in a slow oven or before a fire and then packing it in dry straw. WASPS AND BEES, Stings from.—Mix together a little spirits of hartshorn with double its quantity of olive oil, and apply to the part affected. Another very simple remedy, which is asserted to be unfailing, is to rub with an onion the part of the flesh which is stung. The application of either oil of tartar or a solution of potash will give instant ease. Perhaps the most convenient thing will be to mix a little oil with common soda. This will allay both the pain and the irritation. WATER LILY, To Propagate.—This plant is not only handsome and graceful, but is extremely useful in ponds where gold fish or tortoises are kept. There are white, yellow, red, and blue varieties. The two latter, which come from China, rarely survive our winter, while the yellow is apt to increase to a troublesome extent. To propagate the plant, select a good-sized thick rhizoma at the end of summer, tie a stone to it, and sink it in the artificial pond, which must, of course, possess a muddy bottom. WATER PIPES, To Prevent the Freezing of.—Pipes which are exposed to the weather soon become frozen in cold seasons, and are liable to burst through the expansion of the water as it is changed into ice. This risk, however, is greatly lessened by turning on the tap a little way, so that the water circulates within the pipe ; for not only is moving water less likely to become frozen than that which is stagnant, but instead of the whole body of water expanding in an outward direction, by the means here suggested the running water keeps a channel open for some time, which has gradually to be filled up before the expansion can possibly take an outer course. WATERPROOF BLACKING FOR BELTS, &c.—Melt together, by a hot bath, six ounces of beeswax and two ounces of mutton suet, then add six ounces of powdered sugar candy, two ounces of soft •oap, two ounces and a half of lampblack, and half an ounce of finely