Ill KNIVES (HANDLES OF), To Remove Stains from.—If rubbed for a few moments with a piece of wet flannel dipped in table salt, all the stains will quickly disappear. KNOCK-KNEES, To Straighten.—Place a small book between the knees and tie a handkerchief tightly round the ankles ; repeat this two or three times a day, increasing the width of the book at each trial. When in bed lie with the legs crossed and the knees fixed tightly together. KOUMISS.—Fill a strong champagne bottle with mare’s milk,and add one ounce of sugar and a teaspoonful of good yeast. Cork and wire the bottle. Put it into a dark cellar, shaking it occasionally each day. It will be fit to drink on the fifth day, and will keep good for close on three weeks. Open carefully as this spirituous liquor effervesces like champagne. It is of special value in pulmonary consumption. KRINGLES.—Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, and mix with six ounces of warm butter; knead to a paste with a pound of flour and six ounces of sugar ; roll into thick cakes, and bake on tin plates. LACE (BLACK), To Renovate.—Wash the lace lightly in warm water with which bullock’s gall has been incorporated ; rinse in cold water ; then pass it through a weak solution of glue, clap it with the hands until most of the moisture is expressed, and pin it out evenly to dry. LACE (BLOND), To Revive.—Blond lace may be revived by breathing upon it, and then shaking and flapping it. If an iron be used the lace will turn yellow. LACE VEILS, To Clean.—Soap them well and lay them for .wenty-four hours in just enough water to cover them. If they are much discoloured change the water at the expiration of that period and let them soak again, then rinse, immerse them in weak starch water, prick out as evenly as possible, roll them in a towel till they are nearly dry, then press them with a warm iron. LACE (WHITE), To Wash.—Boil some rice to a pulp, then dilute it with warm water, wash the lace therein, and pin it out to dry. This method imparts both clearness and stiffness. LACQUERED GOODS, To Clean. — Warm soap-suds will generally suffice to cleanse these articles, but if they are very dirty the following may be used : Finely-powdered rotten-stone, one ounce ; sweet oil, one teaspoonful ; oxalic acid, two drams, and water sufficient to make into a paste. LACQUER FOR BRASS, A Good.—Seed-lac, dragon’s blood, gamboge, and anotta, of each four ounces ; saffron, one ounce, and spirits of wine, ten pints. LACQUER FOR TINPLATE.—Best alcohol, eight ounces; turmeric, four drams ; hay saffron, two scruples ; dragon’s blood, four scruples; red Sanders, one scruple; shellac, one ounce ; gum-sandarach, two drams ; gum-mastic, two drams ; Canada balsam, two drams ; when dis- solved add eighty drops of spirits of turpentine. LAMB (BREAST OF), To Stew.—Remove the chine-bone, cut the meat into pieces, put it into a stew-pot, cover with gravy, and stew till tender ; thicken the same, add a glass of sherry wine, and serve with stewed mushrooms or boiled cucumbers. LAMB CHOPS OR CU I LETS.—Dip them in bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, a little grated lemon, and the yolk of an egg. Fry slightly brown, and serve with a little brown gravy poured over them. LAMB (FORE-QUARTER OF), To Ragout.—Cut off the knuckle bone and remove all the skin. Lard it with bacon and fry to a nice colour ; then put it in a saucepan, cover with gravy, add sweet herbs,