i75 powder; set it on a slow fire, stir till it boils, then season with salt. If not thick enough add a small piece of butter rolled in flour. SAUCE (PARSLEY).—Pound the required quantity of parsley, and put it into a saucepan with some good mutton broth ; simmer for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a sieve ; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and just before sending it to table stir in a little lemon juice. SAUCE (POOR MAN’S).—Chop up half a dozen shallots and a little parsley, and simmer them in gravy with a spoonful of vinegar ; season with cayenne pepper and salt. SAUCE (SAGE AND ONION), for Geese, Ducks, &c.—Chop up very fine one ounce of onion and half an ounce of green sage leaves, and put them into a saucepan with half a cup of water ; simmer gently for ten minutes, then add a teaspoonful of pepper and salt, and an ounce of bread crumbs ; stir together, mixing with it four tablespoonfuls of good gravy, and simmer the whole for a few minutes longer. SAUCE (SALAD).—Take the yolks of itwo hard-boiled eggs, rub them through a coarse sieve, and mix them with a tablespoonful of cream, two tablespoonfuls of flask oil, a teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of mustard. Rub the whole together with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, then add three or four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. SAUCE (SHRIMP).—Pick half a pint of shrimps and put them into a saucepan with some melted butter and a little essence of anchovy ; when very hot, add a little lemon juice, and serve at once. SAUCE (TARRAGON), for Fowl.—Put into a saucepan a few branches of green tarragon and a wineglassful of white vinegar ; let it boil for ten minutes, then add three or four spoonfuls of white gravy, and thicken with the yolks of two eggs. Strain through a tammy, add a piece of butter, a little lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and leaves of tarragon cut into dice and blanched very green. SAUCE (TOMATO).—Take a couple of dozen ripe tomatoes, extract the seeds and press out the water ; put the fruit into a stew-pan with an ounce and a half of butter, a small quantity of thyme, and a bay leaf; stir to a pulp over a moderate fire ; add a good cullis, and rub through a sieve ; then put it back into the stew-pan, with salt and cayenne to taste, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. SAUCE (WHITE ITALIAN).—Turn some mushrooms, and throw them into a little water and lemon-juice to keep them white. Chop up some shallots and put them into a stew-pan with a little stock, then chop and add the mushrooms; simmer for a quarter of an hour; stir in a spoonful of cream ; strain; season with salt, a little lemon juice, sugar, and a few drops of garlic vinegar. SAUCE (WOW-WOW), for Boiled Beef.—Put into a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when it is melted stir into it a tablespoonful of fine flour, half a pint of beef broth, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; simmer together until rather thick, then add some finely-chopped parsley, and two or three pickled cucumbers cut into any fancy shape. When these are warm through, send the whole to table in a tureen. SAUSAGE ROLLS.—Boil the sausages for two minutes, let them cool, take off the skin, and cut them in half. Make a light paste, roll it out thinly, and cut it in pieces about five inches square. Put half a sausage on each piece of paste, wet the edge and fold the paste over, bringing the join at the top ; mark with the back of a knife, place on a greased tin, brush over with egg, and bake in a brisk oven for about thirty minutes.