52 an “eye,” and also by cuttings, which will form tubers by the end of the summer. They must be well protected from the frost during the spring, and may be planted out in the open at the end of May or the beginning of June in good rich hazel loam, at the same time inserting a stake in the ground to support the fragile stem, and encircling this with lime and ashes to protect the young shoots from the ravage of snails and slugs. Earwigs make vigorous onslaughts on the blossom, and should be trapped by placing an inverted flower-pot on the top of a stick, or by hanging hollow bean stalks among the foliage ; these may be emptied into boiling water twice a day. About the second week in November remove the roots carefully from the ground, taking pains not to wound them ; leave them in the open air for a few days to dry, then store them in a dry cellar and cover them with sand till the following March, when they may be divided, put into pots, and placed in a hot-house till all fear of frost is over. DAISIES, To Propagate.—These will grow in any ordinary garden soil, and are useful as edging plants or for small beds. They are propa- gated by root-division in the autumn, but to insure a fine display of flowers it is necessary to perform the operation each year. DAMP WALLS, To Rectify.—Strip the walls and give two coats of varnish in which rosin has been dissolved ; or, better still, though rather more expensive, line them with thick lead paper or tin foil. The walls mav then with safety be decorated with gold, bronze, or delicately-tinted paper. DANDELION (BOILED).—Wash the leaves thoroughly in the same manner as is done for spinach, so as to rid them of all sand or earth, and let them stand in cold water for a couple of hours. Drain them, throw them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them boil from twenty minutes to half an hour ; press out the water, and serve with melted butter. DANDELION (EXTRACT OF), for Liver Complaints.—Dig up the plants in September, wash them thoroughly clean, and pound the leaves and roots in a mortar ; strain the juice into a saucer, and let it stand near the fire till it becomes thick. From one scruple to a dram to be taken every four hours. DANDRUFF.—Put one ounce of quassia chips into a cupful of water; let it stand for twenty-four hours, and apply to the head, brushing it well into the roots. See also Scurf in the Head. DEAFNESS.—Deafness generally arises from deficient secretion of wax in the ear. The following remedy is in some cases useful :—Oil of turpentine, half a dram ; olive oil, two drams ; mix, and insert a couple of drops in the ear at bed-time. Oil of bitter almonds also proves of great service in the treatment of this ailment, especially if a few drops of turpentine or camphor liniment be added to the oil. If the deafness arises from nervous debility a course of tonic medicines should be taken, the diet strictly attended to, and a clove of garlic wrapped in muslin, or a few drops of the juice, introduced into the ear. DECLINE, Remedy for.—Feed as much as possible on raw steak scraped very fine and placed between bread and butter, and drink each day half a pint of warm blood from a sheep or cattle. DELIRIUM TREMENS.—The first symptoms of this disease are tremulousness, wakefulness, nausea, and vomiting, succeeded by clutching at small objects, raving, and fear of evil beings. It is best treated by giving an emetic in the favourite drink of the patient, followed by a pur- gative, and, after the medicine has acted, from ten to fifteen drops of