igo THRUSHES.—The male bird is distinguished from the hen by a darker back, a greater gloss upon the feathers, and a whiter belly. Worms, snails, and insects form their natural food, which must be supplied to them when kept in cages, as well as raw meat cut up small and mixed with bread or German paste. Keep them in a warm, sunny situation. THRUSH OR “FROG.”—In this complaint the mouth is lined with little white spots, which also break out on the tongue and gums. In appearance the spots are exactly like fine curds of milk. To remedy the evil rub together equal parts of borax, loaf sugar, and saltpetre, and put a pinch into the child’s mouth three times a day. This preparation must be kept in a dry place. Another remedy is to mix together an ounce of honey and one dram of Roche alum, finely powdered ; dip a rag in it and wash the child’s mouth with it every two hours. Once or twice a week give half a teaspoonful of rhubarb and magnesia. THYME, To Cultivate.—The common green thyme, which is generally used for kitchen purposes, is raised from seed sown in April, either broadcast or in drills, and transplanted in summer, but it may also be propagated like the lemon-scented yellow kind, by parting the roots, and by top slips in the spring, planted about six inches apart. TIC-DOLOUREUX, To Alleviate.—Make a lotion with half a pint of rosewater and two teaspoonfuls of white vinegar. Apply on linen three or four times a day. A fresh linen should be used for each applica- tion. TIN, To Coat Iron or Copper with.—Scour the plates and lay them in sulphuric acid diluted with water, until all the rust or oxide left after the scouring is dissolved. Then wash and again scour them, and dip them in a vessel full of melted tin, the surface of which is covered with fat or oil, to defend it from the action of the air. When a small quantity only is to be tinned, heat the metal, sprinkle it with rosin, and rub the molten tin on with tow or a piece of cloth. Pure grain tin only should be used for such purposes as saucepans and other kitchen utensils, TOBACCO (BRITISH).—Mix together equal portions of colts- foot and plantain leaves, with a smaller proportion of rosemary, thyme, sage, eyebright, wood betony, and yarrow. TOBACCO (HERB).—Hyssop, marjoram, and thyme, of each two ounces ; coltsfoot, three ounces; betony and eyebright, of each four ounces ; rosemary and lavender, of each eight ounces. Mix, press together, and cut up fine. TOBACCO, To Scent.—Tobacco may be scented either by sprink- ling it with perfume or by shutting it up in a jar with a Tonquin bean. TOBACCO WASH FOR PLANTS.—Boil two ounces of common shag tobacco in a pint of water. Apply with a brush to the leaves and stems of the infected plants, and afterwards syringe well with clear water. This wash is a deadly poison to insects. TOE JOINTS (ENLARGED), To Reduce.—Bind a strap round the foot with one pad of linen over the prominence and another between the great toe and the next, and at night rub it with iodide of potassium ointment. TOE NAILS (INGROWING).—Make some tallow very hot and put it on the sore place. The operation causes very little pain if the tallow is thoroughly heated, and it effects a certain cure. TOFFEE (BUTTER).—To one pound of raw sugar add three ounces of butter ; stir it over the fire till it comes to the crackled degree, flavour with lemon-juice, and pour it into greased tins to set.