1J2 of oil of vitrioL Then dissolve a quarter of a pound of alum in warm water, and add thereto two ounces of the solution of tartar in water ; wash and filter the precipitate, and when nearly dry add to it the solution of indigo. Dilute with water. Used to colour bone, leather and silk. A fine sap colour may be obtained by adding some gum to the above. SARSAPARILLA.—Sarsaparilla root, sliced and bruised, tw'O ounces ; guaiacum wood, one ounce. Boil over a slow fire in three quarts of water until the liquor is reduced to one quart, adding towards the end half an ounce of sassafrax wood and three drams of Spanish liquorice. Strain the decoction. A wineglassful to be taken three times a day. SAUCE (ANCHOVY).—Melt two ounces of butter with two tablespoonfuls of milk, stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour, and when quite smooth add two tablespoonfuls of water, two dessert-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Serve very hot. SAUCE (APPLE), for Roast Pork.—Peel some apples, cut them into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with a little brown sugar, and two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Cover the saucepan close, and set it over a slow fire for a couple of hours, or less, according to the kind of apple used. When they are done enough pour off the water, and let them stand a few minutes to get dry, then beat them up with a little grated lemon peel and a bit of butter. SAUCE AU CARP, for Fresh-water Fish.—Put into a sauce pan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a large teaspoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of white vinegar, a small bit of glaze, a little nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and a small quantity of water. Stir it over the fire till it is per- fectly smooth, then add a spoonful of capers, but none of the vinegar. SAUCE (BECHAMEL). —Put into a stew-pan a slice or two of ham, a couple of shallots, a few mushrooms, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a bit of butter. Let stand a few hours, then add a little water, flour, and milk, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. This sauce should always be made rather thick. SAUCE (BREAD), for Fowls or Game.—Grate some stale bread into a basin, add an onion, a few peppercorns, three or four cloves, a little salt, and sufficient boiling milk to cover the whole. Simmer in a slow oven till all the milk is soaked up by the bread, then remove the onion, add a little cream, rub through a sieve, add a little melted butter, and serve very hot. SAUCE (BROWN ITALIAN).—Take two tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one spoonful of shallots, and one of parsley. Put them into a stew-pan with a cupful of good stock and a glass of sherry. Boil up ; add clove, lemon, nutmeg and sugar. Boil again with a little more stock, skim carefully so as not to take off the parsley, and season with pepper and salt. This sauce should not be made too thick. SAUCE (CAPER), for Boiled Mutton.—Stir two tablespoonfuls of minced capers into a third of a pint of melted butter ; add a little of the vinegar, and serve at once. Pickled nasturtiums are a good substitute for capers. SAUCE (CARRIER).—Cut into shreds half a dozen shallots, and boil them with half a pint of beef gravy, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Season with pepper and salt. SAUCE (CELERY).—Cut off the stalks of a dozen heads of celery. Pare the heads, wash and blanch them in hot water, then stew them with some beef suet and bacon fat, a little butter and salt, and some lemon juice. When done, drain them well, cut them into pieces an inch long, and put them into some bechamel. The sauce should be made thick, but not too highly seasoned.