10 BALM (COMMON).—This aromatic family herb is propagated by oil-sets taken in spring and autumn. In taking off the slips be careful to preserve some of the roots to each ; plant them in rich earth at a distance of six or eight inches from each other. BALM OF GILEAD, The Culture of.—Although the flowers of this plant are small and not very ornamental, it is, nevertheless, worthy of cultivation on account of the odoriferous fragrance which is emitted from the leaves, which, if protected in winter, remain throughout the year. It may be grown from seed sown in April on a moderate hot-bed or on natural soil in a warm, sheltered situation. It may likewise be propagated by cuttings about the middle of June. Cut off some of the strongest stalks, divide them into lengths of six inches, plant several together in large pots, and put them on a hot-bed to expedite their rooting ; or they may be planted in a shady position in the open, four or five inches apart. They will root freely and be ready to transplant in two months. BALM, To Propagate.—This herb is propagated by parting the roots or off-set slips in spring and autumn, and planting them six or eight inches apart. BANBURY CAKES.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, and mix it with half a pound of finely cut candied lemon and orange peel, a pound of currants, and a quarter of an ounce each of ground cinnamon and allspice. Roll out some pastry, cut it into pieces six or seven inches square, put the above meat in the middle of one half, fold the other over, and pinch it into an oval shape, then brush the tops over with white of egg, dust the cakes with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. BANDOLINE; or, Hair Fixature.—Gum tragacanth, one dram ; water, half a pint ; proof spirit, three ounces ; otto of roses, ten drops. Soak for twenty-four hours, then strain. BANNOCK.—Mix together a cupful of oatmeal, the same quantity of flour, half a teaspoonful of ginger, half a teaspoonful of salt, a table- spoonful of treacle, a small quantity of soda, and sufficient buttermilk to form it into a stiff paste, and bake on an iron plate over the fire. Bannock may likewise be made from pease or barley meal. BARBEL (BOILED).—Boil them in salt and water. When done, remove the fish carefully, pour away half the water, and put into the remainder a little vinegar and salt, a couple of sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, the juice of a lemon, some mixed spice, two or three anchovies, and some picked shrimps ; boil well together, then put the fish into it, let it simmer for a short time, and serve with the liquor strained over it. BARK, Compound Decoction of.—Put into a pint of water three drams of Peruvian bark and three drams of Virginia snake-root ; boil to half the quantity, strain, and add one ounce of aromatic water. BARK, Decoction of.—Reduce to a powder one ounce of Peruvian bark, put it into a pint and a half of water ; boil till it is reduced to a pint, then strain. Dose, from one to three ounces. Used in cases of diarrhoea, dysentery, indigestion, debility, &c. BARK, Tincture of.—Take two ounces of Peruvian bark, half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of orange peel, and a large tablespoon- ful of cayenne pepper, and infuse them for a week in a pint and a half of brandy, keeping the vessel closed the whole time. Dose, from one to three drams. BARLEY BROTH (SCOTCH).—Wash half a pound of Scotch barley in cold water ; put it in a stew-pan with four or five pounds of shin of beef or a knuckle of veal; cover it with cold water, and when it boils skim it well, and add two good-sized onions ; simmer gently for two hours ; let it grow cold so that all the fat may be removed from the surface ; then