RHEUMATISM, Liniment for.—A liniment made of equal parts of oil of winter-green and olive oil, or soap liniment, is said to afford almost instant relief from this painful affliction. See also LUMBAGO. RHEUMATISM, Plaster for.—Take one part of ammonia or “volatile salt” and three parts of extract of belladonna ; mix, spread it on leather, and apply to the affected joints. RHODODENDRONS, General Treatment of.—These plants require to be grown in heath mould, with a good drainage at the bottom. As they are soon killed by drought, they should be kept in a humid atmo- sphere. They are multiplied by grafting and layering, but the best plants, are raised from seed sown in a pan of fine heath mould and gently pressed down by the hand. This pan is stood in another which is filled with water, and kept covered with glass until the seedlings have sprouted. They are pricked out in their second year, and in their fourth year they are moved further apart, in which position they remain till strong enough to be trans- planted to the place where they are to remain. In transplanting, take a good ball of earth with the root, and give a plenteous watering. They flourish best under the shade of a lofty tree. RHUBARB SYRUP.—Cut into pieces, without being peeled, seven pounds and a half of rhubarb, and add to it two pounds of sugar. Put it with two quarts of water, and boil for forty minutes ; then strain through a fine sieve, and bottle the syrup. When using add an equal quantity of water. June is the best time to select for making the syrup. RHUBARB TART.—Peel and cut the rhubarb into pieces two inches long, put them into a saucepan, pour over them a thin syrup of sugar and water, and simmer very slowly for one hour. When cold, stir in a small teaspoonfu] of carbonate of soda ; line a dish with crust, pour in the fruit, cover with a light paste, and bake. RHUBARB, Tincture of.—Rhubarb, two and a half ounces ; lesser cardamom seeds, half an ounce ; brandy, one quart. Digest for seven days, then strain. Dose : From one to three or four spoonfuls. Used for indigestion and weakness of the stomach. RHUBARB, To Grow.—Sow the seed in April on a warm, sheltered border of rich soil. When the plants are sufficiently strong, plant out in deep, well-trenched, rich ground. RIBBONS, To Clean. — Mix thoroughly one tablespoonful of brandy, one of treacle, and one of soft soap. Place the ribbon upon a smooth board, apply the mixture with a soft brush, rinse in cold water, and roll up until nearly dry ; then press the wrong side with a moderately warm iron. RICE GRUEL.—Mix a tablespoonful of ground rice with a pint of milk until it is perfectly smooth. Boil over a slow fire, with a little cinnamon and nutmeg. When done sweeten to taste and add a piece of butter. RICE PUDDING (BAKED).—Put into a baking dish half a pound of rice, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg or pounded allspice, lemon peel, and two quarts of milk. Bake in a moderate oven. RICE PUDDING (BOILED).—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice till it is tender, then take it up and stir into it two ounces of butter and the same amount of finely-chopped suet, sweeten with sugar, flavour with nutmeg, tie it in a cloth, and boil for one hour. Serve covered with melted butter. RICE OR HOMINY CAKES.—One quart of milk, three- quarters of a pound ol soft-boiled rice or hominy, three eggs, beaten light,