166 plants may be set six inches apart every way, at a depth of from one and a half to two inches, a small pinch of river sand being put below each root. Directly the foliage is withered take up the roots, separate the off-sets at once, and store them in an airy, shady place. When grown from seed it is sown on light, rich, well-sifted soil, and a light coat of earth dusted over it from a sieve. It is generally asserted that the seed of the ranunculus does not produce two flowers alike, and hence its cultivation from seed is largely practised by amateurs as well as professionals. RASPBERRY BRANDY.—Express the juice from the rasp- berries, and to each pint add a pound of sugar ; give one boil up, skim it, and when cold mix it with an equal quantity of brandy. RASPBERRY TRIFLE.—Lay in a deep glass dish some sponge cake ; pour upon it some cream or juice of preserved fruit, then add a layer ' of raspberry jam a quarter of an inch thick. Pour upon this a pint of boiled custard ; beat up the whites of three eggs and pile it upon the top of the custard. RASPBERRIES, To Preserve Whole.—Gather the fruit before it is too ripe, and boil it very gently in a small quantity of water with its weight in sugar. When clear, take the fruit up carefully and boil the syrup till it thickens, pour it over the fruit and when cold put into jars and cover closely. RATAFIA.—Bruise one pound of bitter almonds, and three quarters of an ounce of nutmegs, and put them into a mortar with three- quarters of a pound of white sugar and one grain of ambergris ; pound the whole together, and infuse them for three days in a gallon of proof spirits, then filter for use. RATS, Phosphor Paste for.—Put one pound of hog’s lard into a pot, plunge it in water, and heat it to 150 degrees Fahrenheit; add half an ounce of phosphorus and a pint of proof spirit ; pour the mixture into bottles, cork firmly, and shake well together. When cold, pour off the spirit (which may be saved for further use), and when required for use, warm it very gently and mix it with wheat, or it may be spread upon bread and laid near their runs. It may be made still more attractive by flavouring it with oil of rhodium. RATS, Poison for.—Take equal parts of ox-gall and oil of amber, and add thereto sufficient flour to form a paste ; divide it into small balls, and place them near the runs of the vermin. Put plenty of water near the poison. After partaking of their meal, the rats, becoming intensely thirsty, will drink till they die on the spot. RAZORS, Paste for Sharpening.—Coke, ground to impalpable powder constitutes the true “diamond paste" for sharpening razors. RAZOR STROP.—Take a piece of buff leather about two inches wide and twelve inches long, fasten it on to a strip of wood, and rub on to it a good thick layer of mutton tallow previously mixed with a quarter of an ounce of emery powder. RENNET (LIQUID).—Cut into small pieces a pound of fresh rennet and well mix it with a quarter of a pound of salt. Let it stand five or six weeks in a cool place, then add a pint and a half of water and half a quartern of spirits of wine. Digest for a day, filter, and bottle off. Two or three teaspoonfuls will be sufficient to curdle a quart of milk. RHEUMATICS, Cures for.—Take a gill of the best vinegar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of table salt. Mix, and rub into the affected parts until a good glow is produced. Or, mix together half a dram of colchicum wine, ten grains of iodide of potassium, two drams of sulphate of magnesia, and six ounces of water. One-sixth part to be taken every four hours.