68 so as not to break them ; separate the breast by cutting through the ribs ; then turn the trunk over and separate the back-bone. FOWLS (SICK), To Cure.—A few leeks chopped fine and mixed with ordinary poultry food will generally bring sick fowls to their normal condition. FOWLS, To Fatten.—Fowls may be fattened in a very short period by giving them small and frequent feedings of ground rice sweetened with foots-sugar, and mixed to a thick paste with boiling milk. Another good method is to separate them from the other chickens, and feed them on oatmeal, boiled potatoes, milk, and bread, mixed with a littl< dripping. They must not be given too much at once, nor more than tw> meals of the mixture in a day. FOWLS, To Truss for Boiling.—After plucking the feathers, cut the neck off close to the body ; remove the crop, entrails, and liver ; cut away the vent, draw it, and beat the breast-bone flat; cut off the nails, and double the feet close to the legs, raise the skin of the legs and cut a hole in the upper part, into which insert the legs ; then put a skewer in the first joint of the wing, and pass it through both the middle of the leg and the body. Turn the fowl over and do the same on that side. Then clean the gizzard, and put it and the liver in the wing ; turn the points on the back, and tie the tops of the legs into position with thin string. FOWLS, To Truss for Roasting.—Pluck, cut off the neck, and draw the inside ; put a skewer in the first joint of the wing, pull the middle of the leg close to it, run the skewer through both the leg and the body ; then put a skewer through the small of the leg, and through the sidesman, and one through the skin of the feet. FOXGLOVE.—There are several varieties of this effective flower, which are generally regarded as biennials, but whose existence can often be prolonged by dividing the off-sets of the stool. To raise it from seed, sow as soon as ripe, and, when large enough, prick out the plants where they are to remain to flower. FRECKLES, To Disperse.—Lemon juice, two ounces ; powdered borax, half a dram ; sugar, one dram. Mix, and let stand for four or five days in a glass bottle, then apply the liquor occasionally to the affected part of the skin. FRECKLES, To Remove.—Dissolve one dram of sal ammoniac in a pint of spring water, and add one ounce of eau de Cologne. Apply night and morning. The following simple remedy is also advisedMix equal parts of pure glycerine and rose-water. Apply every night, allowing it to .dry on the skin. See also Pearls (Tincture of). FREEZING MIXTURES. — Glauber’s salt, six parts; sal ammoniac, four parts ; nitrate of potash, two parts ; and dilute nitric acid, four parts. This will cause the thermometer to sink from fifty degrees to ten degrees. Nitrate of potash, five parts ; sal ammoniac, five parts ; Glauber’s salt, eight parts; water, sixteen parts. The thermometer sinks from fifty degrees to four degrees. Well mix one part by weight of muriate of ammonia with two parts by weight of nitrate of potash. Place the powder in large glass-stoppered bottles, and keep it in the cool. Now crush to a fine powder as much Scotch soda as will equal in weight the above combination, and keep it separately in a closely-covered jar, so that all air is excluded therefrom. When required for use, stir, say, a pint of each of the powders together, place them immediately in the ice-pail, and add thereto a pint of cold water, or just sufficient to dissolve the powders. Should there be any