196 the fire, and when boiling add a little salt, skim well, and place at the comer to simmer gently for two hours ; take up, put the meat into a dish surrounded with the vegetables, and serve with parsley and butter ever. VEAL (KNUCKLE OF), To Carve.—A little practice is required before this joint can be carved neatly. Cut off a piece of the outside, so that good slices can be obtained. When the bones are reached divide them and cut from the opposite side. The fat is considered a delicacy, and so are the sinewy parts that lie around the joint. VEAL (LOIN OF), To Carve.—This joint may be cut into chops, dividing the meat into handsome slices, and serving the bone with one ; or it may be cut in long slices from end to end. A portion of fat and kidney should be served on each plate. VEAL (SHOULDER OF), To Carve.—Make a cross cut on the fore part of the joint, and serve slices from each side of the incision ; after- wards cut lengthways along the shoulder-blade. VEAL STUFFING.—Chop up some suet, with a little parsley and shallot ; rub a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and basil through a sieve, and add them to the suet with a few bread crumbs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a couple of eggs ; season with salt and pepper, and mix the whole together. VEGETABLE DYES.—A French chemist asserts that the colouring properties of any tree may be determined by the colour of its fruit. To extract the dye boil the bark with lime, when a coloured precipi- tate will be formed. VEGETABLE MARROWS (BOILED).—Pare the outside thinly, take out all the core, cut up into small pieces, an inch and a half in length, and for each three pounds of marrow add two pounds of sugar, a saltspoonful of ground ginger, and one large lemon cut into thin slices ; let them stand for twenty-four hours, and then boil, allowing three hours for each three pounds of vegetable. Or, peel the marrows, halve, and if very large quarter them, remove the seeds, put them into boiling water, and simmer gently until tender. Take them up with a slice, drain, and serve upon toast; or send to table accom- panied with melted butter. VEGETABLE MARROWS (FRIED).—Boil the marrows in the usual way till quite tender. Let them get cold, then cut them into slices, brush them over with egg, dip in finely-grated bread crumbs, and fry till they are of a light brown colour. Serve very hot. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP.—Peel and cut into large squares two pounds of vegetable marrow, put it into a saucepan with a large onion, a teaspoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and two ounces of butter ; cover closely and simmer well ; then add a pint and a half of water, and stew slowly until the vegetables pulp. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with sufficient milk to form a smooth paste, stir it into the soup, then add a pint more milk. Stir the soup until it boils, and afterwards let it simmer for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Serve with sippets of toast. The soup is sometimes rubbed through a sieve before it is thickened. VEGETABLE MARROW, To Grow.—Sow the seed during March and April, on a hot-bed; pot and harden off for planting out in May, on beds prepared with good stable manure. Water with liquid manure during dry, hot weather. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Slice three large cucumbers, six lettuces, and two or three onions. Put into a stew-pan half a pound of butter, and when melted add the vegetables, cover, and place over a slow fire for an hour and a quarter. Add as much stock as needed, bring it to a boil, then