86 sweet almonds. When cold stir in a few drops of oil of bergamot, rubbed up with half a grain of civit. HAIR OIL (MACASSAR).—To one ounce of olive oil add one dram of oil of origan and one dram and a quarter of oil of rosemary. Mix well. This oil is used to stimulate the growth of the hair and to make it curl. HAIR OIL (QUEEN’S).—Oil of ben, one pint; civit, three grains; Italian oil of jasmine, three fluid ounces; otto of roses, three minims. If otto of roses cannot be obtained, twelve minims of common oil of roses may be substituted. HAIR OIL (RED).—Put a pint of olive oil into a jar with a little alkanet root, stand it in an oven or by the fire to get hot, and when the colour is deep enough, let it grow cold, then stir into the oil half a dram of otto of roses, and the same quantity of oil of rosemary. HAIR, To Cleanse and Strengthen the.—Take one ounce of borax and half an ounce of camphor, powder fine, and dissolve in one quart of boiling water. When cool the solution will be fit for use. Damp the hair frequently with it. The camphor will form again into lumps as the lotion increases in age, but this will not signify, as the water will be sufficiently impregnated. HAIR, To Prevent its Falling off.—The hair may be kept from falling off after a severe illness by a frequent application to the scalp of sage tea. HAIR, To Prevent the Extension of Gray.—Melt together a quarter of a pound of lard and four drams of spermaceti, and when it is getting cold stir in four drams of oxide of bismuth and a few drops of any kind of perfume. Use whenever the hair requires dressing. Dark hair may be prevented from turning gray by washing it with a mixture of one ounce of sulphate of iron and a full pint of red wine. HAIR, To Promote the Growth of.—To two ounces of eau-de- Cologne add two drams of tincture of cantharides, ten drops of oil of rosemary, and the same number of oil of lavender. Use two or three times daily ; but discontinue for a time if the scalp become tender. The following is also recommended for strengthening and promoting the growth of the hair :—Mix cantharides with castor oil in the proportion of one dram to each ounce of oil, and apply once a day. An excellent mixture is likewise made with eight ounces of olive oil, sixty drops each of oils of lemon and bergamot, ten drops of oil of roses, and sixty drops of tincture of cantharides. HAIR, To Remove Superfluous.—Mix with the white of an egg one ounce of finely-powdered quicklime and one dram of finely-powdered orpiment. Spread the paste thickly over the hair, and let it remain on as long as it can be borne, then scrape it off with a bone knife, wash thoroughly, and apply a little cold cream to the skin. It should be stated that all depilatories are more or less injurious to the skin, and should be used with caution. Another good method is to pull the hairs out carefully one by one by the roots, and apply to the parts a little carbonate of bismuth moistened with glycerine. Or, to eight ounces of quicklime add one ounce of dry pearlash and one ounce of sulphuret of potassium. This must not remain on for more than two or three minutes, when it should be gently scraped off, and the part anointed with cold cream. HAIRWASH, A Stimulating.—Mix four drams of tincture of nux vomica with one ounce of distilled vinegar, six drams of tincture of cantha- rides, one dram of glycerine, and seven ounces of rose-water.