5i CURRY POWDER, Best Way of Using.—To one tablespoonful of curry powder, add one of flour, a cupful of milk, a little lemon juice, and salt. Add it to the liquor of any kind of stew about twenty minutes before serving. CURRY POWDER, To Make.—Mix together four ounces each of turmeric, coriander, and black pepper; three ounces of fenugreek, two ounces of ginger ; one ounce each of cumin seed and ground rice ; and half an ounce each of cardamums and cayenne pepper. Dry them well, reduce to a fine powder, and keep in a closely corked bottle. CURRY SOUP.—This may be made from ox-cheek, cow-heel, rabbit, or fowl, but is best prepared from the two first mentioned. Cut up the meat, soak it well, and put it into a stew-pan with three or four sliced onions, a bunch of pot herbs, a little butter, salt, and pepper, half a pound of soaked rice, and a teaspoonful of curry powder. Stew for four hours. For a rabbit or fowl twenty minutes will be sufficient, provided the rice is first parboiled. CUSTARD (BAKED).—Boil cinnamon and mace in a pint of cream or new milk. Strain, and when cold mix it well with six eggs, a spoonful of orange-flower water, with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Pour into cups and bake in a slow oven for about half an hour. CUSTARD (BOILED), A Rich.—Boil a quart of cream with a stick of cinnamon and some lemon peel until it tastes of the spice ; then beat up the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of nine, sweeten them sufficient for the whole, and put them with the cream into a saucepan and simmer till of the proper consistence, stirring one way the whole of the time, then flavour with ratafia or brandy. CUSTARD (BOILED), Plain.—This is made like the rich custard, with the exception that milk is used instead of cream. Bay leaves, or half a dozen bitter almonds may be boiled with the milk instead of the spice and lemon peel. CUSTARD (LEMON).—Beat up the yolks of six or eight eggs till quite white ; add a pint of boiling water, the grated rinds of two lemons and the juice of the same ; sweeten to taste, and stir over the fire ; when sufficiently thick, add a glass of sherry and the same quantity of brandy ; give it a scald up, and pour into cups. Serve cold. CUSTARD PUDDING.—Boil a quart of new milk, stir in a little fine flour. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, according to size, sweeten with sugar, add a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of orange or lemon juice. Mix, and boil in a basin or bake in a dish for three-quarters of an hour. CUTLETS (INDIAN).—Take potatoes, onions, flour, and fat. Peel the potatoes, and scrape them as fine as flour ; then mix it with the flour (instead of suet) ; work it up to a fine paste, and flatten it out with the hand. Cut the meat into small pieces and put it in the centre of the paste, with a little onion chopped fine. Make the paste into a ball, with the meat inside ; flatten it out a little, and fry till it is well done. CYCLAMEN, To Propagate.—These sweet-scented flowers are propagated from seed sown directly it is ripe in shallow pans of light, rich earth, and placed under frames where they will receive a good supply of air and a little warmth. Here they are allowed to remain for two or three years, when they are transferred to the open border. The tubers, after flowering and maturing their leaves in the open ground should be stored in a dry and airy place till the end of November, when they may be reset. DAHLIAS, General Treatment of.—These flowers, which bloom from the beginning of August to the end of October, are propagated both by dividing the tuber at the crown, so that each portion is provided with I