6 APPLE TRIFLE.—Scald some apples till they are soft, then mash, and mix with them the rind of half a lemon grated fine ; sweeten with sugar, and press through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Next beat up the yolks of two eggs with a pint of milk, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let come to a boil ; lay it evenly over the apples, and cover with a whip made the day previous. The whip is made with cream, the whites of eggs well beaten, sugar, grated lemon peel, and raisin wine. APPLE WATER.—Bake a large apple till it is quite soft, then mash it, pour upon it a pint of boiling water ; beat it up with a little sugar, and when cold strain. This makes a refreshing drink for sick persons. APRICOTS (DRIED).—Take some of the fruit before they have fully ripened, scald them in a jar immersed in boiling water, skin and stone them, and put them into a syrup of half their weight of sugar, in the pro- portion of a pint of water to every four pounds of sugar ; scald, and then boil them until clear. Let them stand for a couple of days in the syrup, then scald them in a thin candy. Keep them in the candy for two days, warming them up each day ; then lay them on a fine strainer to dry. AQUA-FORTIS, To Make.—Mix with any quantity of nitrous acid an equal proportion of water. AQUA-REGIA.—See Gold, To Dissolve. AQUARIUMS, Paint for Inside of.—Make a varnish of shellac and methylated spirit, with zinc-white, sufficiently thin to flow freely with a brush, and paint quickly, as it dries at once. A polish may be given to the paint by dissolving a small portion of gutta-percha with the shellac. AQUARIUMS, Cement for.—See Cement to Unite Glass to Iron. AQUA-TINT A.—This method of engraving resembles drawing in Indian ink. The process consists in corroding the copper with aqua-lortis in such a manner that an impression from it has the appearance of a tint laid on the paper. This is effected by covering the copper with a substance which takes a granulated form so as to prevent the aqua-fortis from acting where the particles adhere, and by this means cause it to corrode the copper partially and in interstices only. When these particles are extremely minute, and near to each other, the impression from the plate appears to the naked eye like a wash of Indian ink, but when they are larger the granulation is more distinct. The matter generally used for this purpose is composed of equal parts of asphaltum and transparent rosin, reduced to powder and sifted on the plate (which has been previously greased) through a fine sieve. The plate is then heated so as to make the powder adhere, and the artist scrapes it away when a very strong shade is wanted, and covers those parts with varnish where he wishes a very strong light to appear. The aqua-fortis, properly diluted with water, is then put on, within a fence of wax, as in common etching for engraving, and the effect is produced by repeated applications, covering the light parts each time with varnish. ARROWROOT BLANCMANGE.—Scald a quart of milk, sweeten it, add a pinch of salt, and having moistened two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with milk, stir it into the scalded milk and boil it up ; flavour with lemon or orange water, and pour it into moulds to cool. ARROWROOT CUSTARD.—Mix a tablespoonful of arrowroot with a little cold milk, and stir it into a pint of boiling milk, with an egg and a tablespoonful of sugar previously beaten together. Let it scald, then stir in a few drops of flavouring, and pour it into cups. ARROWROOT GRUEL.—Take a dessert-spoonful of arrow- root, and mix it with sufficient cold water to form a thin paste, then put it