8S two ounces of suet, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper ; put it inside the fish, sew it up, and tie the fish in a nice shape. Beat up an egg, brush the fish over with it, and dip it in bread crumbs. Lay the haddock in a greased tin, and bake for half an hour. Draw out the string or cotton, garnish with parsley, and serve with melted butter. For a change the fish may be boned, stuffed, rolled up, and cooked after the above method. HADDOCKS (FRESH), To Boil.—Clean the fish and put them into a kettle of cold water with a handful of salt and a small cupful of vinegar. Boil for twenty minutes. Garnish with horse-radish, and serve with oyster or shrimp sauce. HADDOCKS (FRESH), To Broil.—Gut, wash, and dry the fish, rub them over with vinegar, and dust them with flour. Make a gridiron hot, grease it well to prevent the fish sticking to it, and broil the haddocks, turning them several times. Serve with melted butter or cockle sauce. HADDOCKS, To Cure.—Cut off the heads, rip the fish open, clean them, lay them flat, cover with salt, and let them remain for two or three hours, then brush them over with pyroligneous acid, and hang them up for a fortnight. A quicker method is to put them on a string and hang them over a peat fire which does not emit much smoke or heat. They will be fit to eat in two or three hours. HAIRBRUSHES, To Clean.—Pour on to the bristles half a teaspoonful of hartshorn and ammonia, rub them quickly with the tips of the fingers ; dip them in hot water, taking care not to wet the back or the handle of the brush ; then rinse with cold water, and set to dry with the bristles downwards. HAIR DYE (BLACK), A Gradual.—Take one part of nitrate of silver and two parts each of dilute nitric acid and iron filings. Mix. Let stand for a day, then add three parts of lard, two parts of oatmeal, and a few drops of bergamot or other scent. HAIR DYE (BROWN).—Tincture of the shucks of walnuts, scented with oil of lavender, forms a good brown dye for the hair. HAIR DYE (CHESTNUT BROWN).—Permanganate of potash, one dram ; powdered gum arabic, two drams ; rose-water, three ounces. Mix, and apply carefully with a small brush, so as not to stain the skin. HAIR DYE (COLOMBIAN).—Hydrosulphuret of ammonia, one ounce ; solution of potash, three drams ; rain-water, one ounce. Mix. Put into small bottles, and label "Solution A.” Then take nitrate of silver, one dram ; rain-water, two ounces. Dissolve, and label ‘‘Solution B.” Apply Solution A to the hair with a tooth-brush, continuing to do so for about a quarter of an hour. Then brush over with Solution B, using a comb to separate the hair, so as to colour it equally all over, taking care not to let the liquid (which produces a permanent dark stain) come in contact with the skin. This is a really good dye. HAIR FIXATURE. See Bandoline. HAIR (GOLDEN), To Preserve the Colour of.—The use of peroxide of hydrogen is altogether harmless, and this liquid applied evenly to the whole of the hair will turn it to a uniform golden colour. This does not actually dye the hair, but extracts the colour through a chemical process. HAIR OIL (CRYSTALLISED).—Almond oil, one fluid pound j spermaceti, a quarter of a pound ; otto of lemon, one ounce. Mix. HAIR OIL (FAMILY).—Break into very small pieces a quarter of an ounce of spermaceti, and melt it over the fire with a gill of oil of