164 times a day. This is a most powerful bitter tonic, and is useful in cases of indigestion and kindred complaints. QUEEN CAKES.—Flour, one pound; powdered sugar, one pound ; butter, four ounces ; currants, one pound ; seven eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Whisk the eggs well, then add the sugar; beat them together for some time ; add the butter, previously beaten to a cream, and stir in gradually the dry ingredients. Butter some patty-tins, half fill them with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. QUENELLES.—Quenelles may be made of rabbits, partridges, whiting, &c., in the same manner as herein given for Quenelles of Veal. QUENELLES OF FOWL.—The fillets of chickens only should be used for this dish, an old fowl being too tough and thready. It is better to use veal, when nice and white, than a tough fowl. Cut the meat up small, and pound it well in a mortar till it can be rubbed through a sieve, remembering that the more quenelles are pounded the more delicate they are. They may be made hard or soft, according to the use they are intended for, by simply adding more or less eggs. This addition makes them softer when raw, but harder when poached. QUENELLES OF VEAL.—Take half a pound of the fleshy part of veal, cut it in slices, and scrape it with a knife till all the meat is separated from the sinews. Boil a calfs udder, either in stock or plain water. When it is done and cold, trim all the upper part, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till it can be rubbed through a sieve ; then make three balls, one of the scraped meat, one of the udder, and one of panada (See Panada for Farces), binding each together with a little flour, and poach them in boiling water with a little salt. QUILLS, To Harden.—Steep the barrels of the quills for a minute or so in boiling alum and water, and then lay them by till cold. Another method is to thrust the barrels into hot ashes or sand, stir them till soft, then press them almost flat with the back of a knife, and finally make them round with the fingers. QUINSY, To Relieve.—Bake a large potato, cut it in two, and apply to the bare neck as hot as it can possibly be borne, tie over it a band of doubled flannel, and keep it on till nearly cold. Repeat the application, and leave the flannel bandage off gradually. A gargle of sage and vinegar may likewise be used. RABBIT (BOILED).—Remove the liver and lay the rabbit in tepid water for ten minutes ; then boil it slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour either in white stock or in salt and water. Serve with onion sauce poured over it, and accompanied with the liver chopped very fine and put into onion sauce made with butter instead of with water. RABBIT, Fricassee of.—Cut up the flesh of the rabbit into pieces about the size of a large walnut, fry them in butter to a light brown, then put them into a stew-pan with a pint of water or veal gravy, an anchovy, cayenne pepper, and salt. Stew gently. If the fricassee is to be brown, stir in, while stewing, a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same amount of burnt sugar ; if it is to be served white, add instead the whites of two eggs mixed with a gill of cream. RABBIT PIE.—Clean and quarter two young rabbits; cut up a quarter of a pound of bacon and pound it in a mortar with the livers of the rabbits, a little chopped parsley, mace, a couple of leaves of sweet basil, pepper, and salt. Line a dish with crust, put a layer of seasoning at the bottom, and then put in the rabbit ; now pound some more bacon in the mortar, mix it with fresh butter, lay it upon the rabbits, and put thin slices of bacon on the top ; cover with a crust, and bake for two hours. When