5° Place tin crumpet rings upon a very hot bake-stone, on which butter has been rubbed ; pour the batter into the tins, and bake, turning them quickly with a broad knife. CRUST (SHORT), To Make.—Mix two ounces of powdered white sugar with one pound of flour, and rub into it nearly a quarter of a pound of butter ; put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, mix the whole to a smooth paste, and roll out thin. This should be baked in a moderate oven. CUCUMBER, The Cultivation of.—The hardy or Ridge cucumber should be raised in a frame or hot-bed in April, and planted out about the middle of May on strawed ridges prepared with good stable manure, covering a hand-glass over each plant. The frame varieties may be grown nearly all the year round. For early forcing and summer cultivation a hot-bed is all that is necessary, but for winter fruiting a cucumber house is ndispensable CURDS AND WHEY.—Add a cupful of sour milk to a pint of boiling new milk, and boil the whole up briskly; then stand the saucepan back on the grate and let the milk simmer for a few minutes, when it will be converted into curds and whey. It may likewise be made by simply adding one dram of citric acid to one quart of milk. CURLS, To Fix.—By using a weak solution of either isinglass or gum-arabic in the operation, the hair may be kept permanently in curl. CURRANT (BLACK) SYRUP, for Sore Throats.—Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of white sugar in a pint of water; boil to a syrup with half a pint of strained juice of black currants. CURRANT JUICE, Best Means of Procuring.—Choose only fine large red currants, put them into a jar, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; simmer till all the juice is extracted from the fruit, then strain. By this means the juice may be kept longer than if merely pressed out of the skins. CURRANT PRESER VE.—Take the stalks from any quantity of red currants, and also from a fourth part of their weight of white currants ; put them into a preserving pan with half a pint of water, and let them boil till they burst; strain the juice, and clarify it; then take sugar of the same weight as the fruit used, boil it till it melts, pour the juice on it, boil together for fifteen minutes, skim it well, and pour it into jars. CURRANT PUDDING, A Superior.—To a pound of dried currants add a cupful of flour, a pound of suet, half a nutmeg, a little powdered sugar, ginger, and salt; mix with five eggs, and boil for two hours and a half. CURRANT PUDDING, Plain.—Chop up half a pound of suet, and put it with three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of dried currants, and a little salt ; mix to the proper consistence with water, make it into a roll, put it in a cloth, and boil for two hours. CURRANT TART.—Line a pie-dish with puff pastry, sprinkle the bottom with sugar, then put in alternate layers of red currants and raspberries, or mulberries, and sugar ; when full, put on the top crust, and bake it in a quick oven. CURRANTS, To Propagate by Layers.—Trim off all the leaves of the shoot intended to be layered, with the exception of half a dozen; make an incision half way through it from a joint upwards, and keep it open with a small splint of wood ; mix a little gray sand with the mould, bend the layer down, and peg it into the soil, covering it with half an inch of earth ; let it remain for two days, then give it a good watering.