13 BEDS, To Ascertain if Damp.—Place a looking-glass betweei the sheets for a few minutes. If upon its removal the g ass be clouded may be relied on that the sheets are not sufficiently dried, and they had better be removed, for it is better to put up with the discomfort of sleeping in the blankets than to stand the chance of catching cold or perhaps rheumatism. BED-TICKS AND FEATHERS, To Clean.—After washing the bed-tick in the usual manner, rinse it in cold water, to which some permanganate of potass has been added. This will render it perfectly sweet. Should any stains remain they may be taken out with chloride of lime, afterwards rinsing the tick. When dry, wax the inside well before putting in the feathers, otherwise they will work their way through, ll the leathers are soiled also, they may be purified with lime water, or, bettei still, with a weak solution of carbonate of soda, or water to which a little chloride of lime has been added, afterwards rinsing them in clear water and spreading them out in the sun to dry. BEEF -ALA-MODE.—Take a dressed cow heel, wash it thoroughly in water, and cut off all the flesh in neat pieces. Then take an ox cheek and well wash it in cold water, rub it with salt, and dry it with a clean cloth ; cut it into neat pieces and flour it. Weigh the flesh of both the ox cheek and cow heel; then put three ounces of dripping into a large saucepan over the fire, and when melted put in the floured pieces of meat and fry them till they are a nice brown, stirring occasionally. Slice very thinly six onions and three carrots. Take a sprig or two of parsley, one of marjoram and thyme, and a bay leaf. Tie the seasonings together, and put them into the saucepan with the vegetables, and for each pound of meat add a pint of water, to which has been added two tablespoonfuls of flour nicely mixed. Then put in the pieces of meat with sufficient pepper and salt to taste. When it boils remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for three hours. BEEF (BOUILLI).—Roll and tie the thickest part of the brisket of beef, put it into a stew-pot, cover with water, and add turnips, carrots, celery, onions, and spice. Let it boil fast for an hour and a half, then draw it back and let it stew gently for six hours, adding water from time to time to supply the place of that which evaporates. Serve in a tureen. The chuck and middle rib are also sometimes cooked in the same manner. BEEF (BRISKET OF), Stewed.—Take any quantity of the brisket, cover it with water, and stew till tender ; then take out the flat bones, skim and strain the gravy ; boil up again with spice tied in a bag, and add a glass of port wine. Garnish the meat with vegetables, and pour the gravy round the joint. BEEF BROTH.—Select a piece of leg of beef, break the bone, then put it into a stew-pan, cover with water, and let it boil, removing the scum as it rises ; add a little parsley, mace, and bread raspings, and when the beef is boiled tender cut some toasted bread into fancy shapes, lay them in the tureen, place the meat thereon, and pour the broth over it. BEEF CAKE.—Chop the meat very fine, pepper and salt to taste, then add a little parsley, nutmeg, and some finely-chopped lemon peel; mix well together with bread-crumbs, and bake in the oven for about an hour. BEEF (COLLARED).—Take the thin end of a flank of beef, hang it in a cool place for a day or so, till the skin appears moist, then rub in some coarse brown sugar ; let it stand for forty-eight hours, at the expiration of which period plunge it into brine made of half a pound of salt and one ounce of saltpetre ; rub the brine into the meat every day for a week. Remove the bones, gristle, and skin, and cover the meat with a