83 HANDS, To Remove. Stains from the.—Stains of all descriptions may be removed from the hands by washing in a small quantity of oil of vitriol and cold water, no soap being used. HANDS, To Whiten the.—Take a wineglassful of eau-de-Cologne, and one of lemon juice; then shave into thin slices two cakes of brown Windsor soap, melt it over the fire, add the Cologne-water and lemon juice, stir it together, and pour it into a mould of any description. When hard it will be fit for use. See also Almond Paste for the Hands. HARE (BROILED).—Rub the legs and shoulders with cold butter or bacon fat, then put them into a vessel with salt, pepper, a little parsley, a couple of sliced onions, a little thyme, a bay leaf, a glass of vinegar, and half a glass of water ; let them remain in this seasoning for a couple of days ; drain, rub them again with butter, and broil. HARE (JUGGED), To Prepare.—Wash, and cut the hare into suitable pieces, put them into a stone jar with some sweet herbs, an onion with a few cloves stuck in it, a few pieces of lemon peel, and a teacupful of water ; tie the jar down with a bladder ; then put a little hay at the bottom of a saucepan, place the jar therein, three-parts fill with water, and boil till the flesh is tender, which will probably take about three hours, replenishing the water as it boils away. When quite tender, strain the gravy from the fat, thicken it with flour, and give it a boil up ; then lay the hare in a dish, pour the gravy over it, garnish with forcemeat balls, and serve with black currant jelly. HARE (POTTED).—Season, and bake with butter ; let it cool, then pound it very fine with some ham, a little parsley, thyme, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt; add a spoonful of the gravy which came from the hare when baked, put it into pots, and cover with melted butter. HARE (ROAST).—Choose a tender hare, skin it, and make a stuffing in the following manner :—Take a good handful of bread crumbs, with the same quantity of beef suet well chopped, a little chopped parsiey, lemon-thyme, and shalot, two eggs, a little butter and milk, salt, and pepper ; mix these into an oval shape, and sew them up in the belly of the hare ; skewer the legs under the body, and hang it at a little distance from the fire. Stop the spit frequently with the stuffed part to the fire, or it will not be ready when the other parts are done. It will take from an hour upwards, according to tenderness or age, during the first half of which it should be basted with milk, and afterwards with butter. Serve with rich gravy and currant jelly. HARE SOUP.—Cut a hare into pieces, put into a stew-pan with a glass of port wine, two onions stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little cayenne pepper ; simmer slowly for one hour, then cover the whole with good boiling broth, and simmer slowly till the meat is done. Remove the flesh and let it drain ; strain the broth through a hair sieve, put in a quarter of a pound of French barley, or the crumbs of a twopenny loaf ; scald the liver, rub it through a sieve into the soup. Take the meat from the bones, and pound it in a mortar, return it to the soup, and place on the fire till near boiling. When ready to serve up, add the blood from the hare ; this will darken the soup, but take care that it does not curdle. Serve with toasted bread in the tureen. The soup must never be made too thick. HARE, To Carve a.—Hares are sent to table on their haunches with their heads to the left of the carver. The choice slices are obtained from cuts made down the whole length of the back, the next favourite parts being the legs, which are taken off and the flesh divided from or served upon them after the small bones have been parted from the thighs ;