84 GROUSE PIE.—Cover the bottom of a dish with slices of veal and bacon ; then chop up and mix some parsley, onion, and mushrooms with bread crumbs, and sprinkle it over the veal; put in the flesh of the bird, cover with bacon, season with cayenne and cloves ; add a few spoon- fuls of good brown gravy or stock ; cover with a paste, and bake. When nearly done, raise the crust and pour in a glassful of port wine. GROUSE (ROAST).—Clean the bird and put inside a piece of butter covered with pepper ; twist the head under the wing, and roast for half an hour. Serve with rich gravy and bread sauce, or with toast satu- rated with gravy. GRUBS, To Free Trees from.—Make a bonfire of dry sticks and weeds in such a manner that the smoke is driven among the trees. The grubs will soon fall off, and should then be swept up. GUINEA PIGS.—These small rodenis are very much like rabbits in their mode of living, and may consequently receive the same treatment in regard to food, &c. They must be kept warm, dry, and very clean. GUM AND STARCH PASTE, To Preserve.—If creosote be added to these until its odour is faintly apparent it will prevent them from fermenting and giving forth an offensive odour, and their adhesiveness will not be impaired even if kept for months. This will be found more effectual than oil of cloves, alum, or other essential oils and salts which are so fre- quently added to counteract their tendency to go bad during hot weather. A few drops of sulphuric acid will prevent decay in solutions of gum- arabic. GUM FOR GENERAL USE.—Dissolve equal parts of gum- arabic and gum-tragacanth in vinegar. Will keep good any length of time. GUM (LIQUID).—Add half a pint of cold water to three ounces of gum-arabic. Stir occasionally until the whole is dissolved, which will take about a day and a night. Bottle off and keep well corked. GUM (STARCH), To Make.—Mix some starch with four times its weight of water. Keep it for some time at a temperature of 140 degrees Fahr., then suddenly raise it to 160 degrees, and the starch will be con- verted into gum. Fermentation may be checked by the addition of a little alum. Used for flaps of envelopes, &c. GUMS, Tonic for the.—Infuse an ounce of coarsely-powdered Peruvian bark in half a pint of brandy for three weeks. Gargle the mouth two or three times a day with a spoonful of this tincture mixed with the like quantity of rose-water. GUMBOILS.—If these are caused by the irritation of the nerves of a decayed tooth, there is no remedy so effectual as extracting the trouble- some member; but if brought on by cold, prick the abscess directly the matter is formed, and afterwards wash the mouth occasionally with twenty- five grains of white vitriol dissolved in half a pint of rose-water. GUN BARRELS, To Bronze.—Dilute nitric acid with water, rub the barrels with it, lay the guns by for a few days, then rub with oil and polish with beeswax. GUTTA-PERCHA, To Dissolve.—See Indiarubker. HADDOCKS (CURED), To Bake.—Scald the fish in a baking- dish of hot water, let it stand a few minutes, then drain the water off; sprinkle with pepper and a few small pieces of butter, pour over it a gill of milk, cover with a flat dish, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. HADDOCKS (CURED), To Dress.—Remove the skin, rub the flesh with egg, and roll it in bread crumbs, toast before the fire, basting frequently with butter. Serve with egg sauce. HADDOCKS (FRESH), To Bake.—Clean, scale, wash, and dry the fish, and cut off the fins. Mix two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs,