194 TURKEY, To Choose.—A young turkey has smooth black legs, while those of an old one are rough and reddish. When fresh killed the eyes are full and bright, and the feet moist and supple. When stale the parts about the vent are of a greenish colour, and have a high smell. TURKEY, with Celery Sauce.—Truss the bird up nicely, wrap it in layers of bacon, then boil it in plain water with a little salt, butter, and lemon juice. Drain it, cover it with celery sauce, and serve at once. TURNIPS, To Grow.—All sorts of turnips are raised from seed sown broad-cast, and moderately thin, and raked in with careful regularity. For a first crop sow a few early Dutch any time in March; the early Snow- ball and other kinds for a general crop in J une, and again in August for winter use. The yellow varieties are also useful for late sowings. When the leaves have grown an inch or so broad, thin or hoe out to a distance of ten or twelve inches, so that the roots may have room to swell. They require a well-dug, highly manured soil. TURPENTINE, To Obtain.—Strip the bark off the pine tree in the spring, when the sap runs most freely, and having previously dug a hole in the earth round the tree, allow the sap to run into it ; then place a basket over an earthenware vessel, and ladle into it the matter which has accumulated in the hole. That portion which is thus filtered into the vessel is the common turpentine. ULCERATIONS OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT.— To two ounces of powdered alum add a quarter of a pound of best treacle or honey. Mix, and take half a teaspoonful two or three times a day. URIC GRAVEL.—Great relief may be obtained by taking a solu- tion of borax—two ounces to a quart of water. This diuretic freely dis- solves the calculose concretions in the kidneys and bladder and does not injure the constitution by long-continued use. USQUEBAUGH (an Irish Compound Liquor).—Crush in a mor- tar one ounce each of cloves, cinnamon, cardamoms, and nutmeg, and add one gallon of best brandy, one pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of saffron, one pound of brown sugar candy, and the rind of a Seville orange. Shake them well each day for at least a fortnight, then fine the liquor for use. VAPOUR BATH, To Obtain a.—Fill a tub with hot water, place therein a cane-seated chair, and when the patient is seated, envelop him from head to foot with a blanket, also covering the tub with the same. VARICOSE VEINS, SCALDED LEGS, &c.—Add to com- mon pipeclay sufficient water to form a paste ; put it in a linen rag and bind it tightly round the limb, renewing it as soon as it becomes dry. VARNISH, A Brilliant Black.—Mix a small quantity of fine lampblack with shellac or French spirit varnish. VARNISH (BLACK), for Flexible Surfaces.—Take of asphaltum, in coarse powder, twenty-four ounces, macerate in a flask for a day or two, with frequent shaking, in twenty-one fluid ounces of benzine. Decant the clear solution, and mix it with that of one or two ounces of manilla elemi, and one ounce of balsam copaiba in sufficient benzine. More benzine may be added, if necessary, to get the proper consistence. VARNISH FOR CABINET-WORK.—A solution of gum- arabic in boiling alcohol, applied after the surface of the wood has been well saturated with olive oil, produces a very brilliant polish. VARNISH FOR ENGRAVINGS.—Stretch the engraving upon a wooden frame, then make a solution of isinglass in water, and cover the print with it; let it dry, and apply with a camel’s hair brush a mixture made of two ounces of spirits of turpentine and one ounce of Canada balsam.