169 ROSES (CREAM OF), To Prepare.—Crush and sift magnesia, and add sufficient rose water to form a thin cream. Bathe the face in warm water, moisten with glycerine, then apply the cream, and when dry rub the face lightly with a soft flannel. ROSES FROM CUTTINGS, To Raise.—Take, in July, shoots of ripe wood made during the spring, and having a portion of last year’s wood attached. Cut them into lengths of five or six inches, selecting such as have two lateral shoots, with about six leaves to each, and plant them in pots filled with a mixture of leaf mould, silver sand, and loamy soil, in- serting an inch of the old wood in the soil and leaving at least two leaves above. Give a gentle watering to settle the soil round the shoots. Let them stand to drain, and when the leaves are dry, remove the cuttings to a cold frame, where they will be sheltered from the sun. In about a fortnight’s time stand the pots in a hot-bed, and when the cuttings are well rooted, pot each one separately. ROSES FROM SEED, To Grow.—Sow the seeds thickly in well-drained pans of leaf mould and yellow loam, cover with half an inch of the earth, and sprinkle a little lime on the top ; water freely, and keep them in the shade. Some gardeners consider it advantageous to soak the seeds for three or four hours before sowing them. As the seeds germinate, keep them free from all weeds, and never let the soil get too dry. ROSES (MILK OF), To Prepare.—Put into a bottle four ounces of rose water, two teaspoonfuls of oil of sweet almonds, and twenty drops of oil of tartar. Shake the bottle until the whole is combined. Apply with a cambric handkerchief to the face, neck, and hands after the morn- ing’s ablutions. ROSE WATER, To Make.—Take six pounds of the leaves of fresh damask roses and as much water as will prevent burning. Distil off a gallon. ROSEWOOD, Stain to Imitate.—Take half a pound of logwood and the same weight of red sanders, and boil them in a gallon of water for an hour ; strain the liquor through a cloth, and add one ounce of powdered alum, stirring until it is dissolved. Apply the stain while hot with a sponge to the wood, which will impart the reddish tinge of rosewood. Let it dry ; then boil one pound of logwood in a gallon of water, and lay it on in streaks in the same manner as the previous dye. If it be desired to impart very dark streaks add a quarter of an ounce of copperas to the logwood decoction. ROUGE, for Theatrical Purposes.—Take Briangon chalk, reduce it to a very fine powder, add to it a sufficient quantity of carmine to produce the required vividness of colour, and carefully triturate the mixture, which may be applied to the skin without any danger. ROUX (BROWN), for Thickening Sauces.—Melt some butter, squeeze out the butter-milk, and mix enough flour with it to form a thin paste ; fry it in a stew-pan on a very slow fire, and then put it again over very red ashes, till a nice colour is obtained. When of a light brown put it into an earthen pan for future use. It keeps a long time. Care must be taken not to let the flour burn, otherwise the sauce will become spotted with black, and have a bitter taste. The colour must be obtained only by very slow degrees. ROUX (WHITE), for Thickening Sauces.—Melt a good lump of butter in a stew-pan, drain, and squeeze out the butter-milk, then powder it over with flour, enough to make a thin paste ; keep it on the fire for a quarter of an hour, taking care not to let it colour, and pour it into an earthen pan ready for use. 23