V FRUIT TREES, To Eradicate Gum from.—First scrape off all the gum, and afterwards wash the branches with a compost of clay, iiorse- dung, and tar. , , , FRUIT TREES, To Get Rid of Moss on.—Wash the branches with strong brine or a strong solution of lime. FRUIT TREES. To Protect them from Birds.—In the autumn, directly the leaves have fallen, dust the bushes with a mixture of quick- lime and soot, and repeat the operation two or three times during the winter. It wilt be found that birds will not touch the buds which form afterwards. Pans of water should be set about the garden, especially in summer, for if the birds cannot obtain their natural beverage, they will slake their thirst with the juice of the fruit. FRUIT TREES, Transplanting.—From experiments lately made it would appear that fruit trees may be transplanted at any season of the year, provided that the proper time of the day be selected for the opera- tion. The experimenter transplanted ten cherry trees, while in blossom, commencing at four o'clock in the afternoon, and transplanted one each hour, until one o’clock in the morning. Those transplanted in the day- light shed their blossoms, producing little or no fruit, while those planted during the darker portions of the day maintained their position fully. He did the same with ten dwarf pear trees, after the fruit was one-third grown. Those transplanted during the day shed their fruit ; those moved during the night perfected their crop and showed no injury from having been shifted. With each of the trees the earth around the roots was disturbed as little as possible. FUCHSIAS, The Treatment of.—Cuttings from these plants will strike readily under a hand-light. When sufficiently strong, transplant them to any light, rich soil, and supply them very liberally with water or very weak liquid manure. FUEL (CHEAP).—Mix together like common mortar one bushel of small coal, one bushel of sawdust, a bushel and a half of clay, and two bushels of sand. Make them into bricks or balls, and set them by to dry ; they are then ready for use. A fire cannot be lighted with them, but when the fire is well alight put a few pieces of coal in front and the brick of fuel at the back. They will keep up a stronger fire than ordinary coal. FUNGI, To Preserve.—Mr. W. Withering, the celebrated botanist, gives the following as the best method of preserving specimens of fungi : —Take two ounces of sulphate of copper, or blue vitriol, and reduce it to powder ; pour upon it a pint of boiling water, and when cold, add half a pint of spirits of wine ; cork it well, and call it the “pickle.” To eight pints of water add one pint and a half of spirits of wine, and call it the “ liquor.” Be provided with a number of wide-mouthed bottles of different sizes, all well fitted with corks. The fungi should be left on the table as long as possible, to allow the moisture to evaporate ; they should then be placed in the pickle for three hours, or longer if necessary ; then place them in the bottles intended for their reception, and fill with the liquor. They should then be well corked and sealed, and arranged in order, with their names in front of the bottle. FURNITURE OIL, for Staining and Polishing Mahogany.— Boil together for ten minutes one gallon of linseed oil, three ounces of alkanet root, and one ounce of rose-pink. Strain until quite clear. Rub the mixture over the articles, let it remain on for an hour, then polish with a linen cloth. FURNITURE OIL FOR STAINS.—Stains left behind on tables, sideboards, &c., by wet glasses or hot dishes may be removed as