iS7 POISONS, Antidotes for.—In cases where the other articles men- tioned as antidotes are not in the house, give two tablespoonfuls of mustard mixed in a pint of water. Also give large draughts of warm milk or water mixed with oil, butter, or lard. If possible, while awaiting the arrival of a doctor, give as follows :— For Bed-Bug Poison, Blue Vitriol, Corrosive Sublimate, Lead Water, Red Precipitate, Saltpetre, Sugar of Lead, Sulphate of Zinc, Vermilion, Arsenic, Fowler’s Solution, White Precipitate, Antimonial Wine, Tartar Emetic, - Give milk or white of eggs in large quantities. Give prompt emetic of mustard and salt— tablespoonful of each ; follow with sweet oil, butter, or milk. (Drink warm water to encourage vomiting. If vomiting does not stop, give a grain of opium in water. Aqua Fortis, Bi-Carbonate Potassa, Muriatic Acid, Oil Vitriol, Oxalic Acid, Caustic Potash, Caustic Soda, Volatile Alkali, Carbolic Acid . . , Chloral Hydrate, Chloroform, Carbonate of Soda, Cobalt, Copperas, Laudanum, Morphine, Opium, Nitrate of Silver, . , Tincture Nux Vomica, Strychnine, Magnesia or soap, two minutes. dissolved in water, every Drink freely of water with vinegar or lemon juice in it. Give flour and water or glutinous drinks. Pour cold water over the head and face, with artificial respiration, galvanic battery. Prompt emetic ; soap or mucilaginous drinks. Strong coffee, followed by ground mustard or grease in warm water to produce vomiting. Keep in motion. Give common salt in water. Emetic of mustard or sulphate of zinc, aided by warm water. POLISH PUDDING.—Blanch half a dozen bitter almonds and one ounce of sweet ones ; pound them to a smooth paste, put them into a saucepan with half a pint of new milk, and bring slowly to a boil. Then mix two tablespoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot with a quarter of a pint of cold milk ; pour the boiling milk upon this, and stir briskly till smoothly mixed ; add two ounces of fresh butter and two eggs, well beaten, and stir the mixture till cool. Pour it into an oiled mould, and set it upon ice till required, then turn it out of the mould and send it to table with sherry sauce. POLISH PUDDING, Sauce for.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add two ounces of powdered sugar and two wineglass- fuls of sherry ; mix thoroughly, put it into a saucepan, and stir gently till it boils. POLYANTHUSES, To Raise.—These flowers require to be placed in a somewhat moist, half-shaded position, such as under tall trees or at the foot of a north-east or north-west wall. The double kinds are in-