26 Perhaps the most effectual way of rendering it sweet is by washing it first in new milk and afterwards in spring water, as the butyric acid which causes the rancidity is freely soluble in fresh milk. BUTTER (SALT), To Freshen.—Salt butter may be made fresh by churning it with new milk, in the proportion of a quart of milk to a pound of butter. BUTTER, To Clarify.—Put the butter into a stew-pan and stand it by the side of a clear fire till the scum rises to the top and the milk settles at the bottom, then carefully remove all the scum with a spoon ; when clear it is fit for use. BUTTER, To Preserve.—Experiments have proved that it is the quantity of milk which is left in the butter that goes bad, therefore if this is extracted the butter does not become rancid. The milk may be effectu- ally extracted by placing the butter on a dish and immersing it in hot water. As it dissolves the milk falls to the bottom, while the pure butter floats on the top. Pour off the butter, and after it has set add a little salt. It will then keep good for an indefinite period. BUTTER, To Preserve, in Summer.—Pour a quart of boiling water on to two pounds of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of loaf sugar. Let it stand till cold, strain, and put the butter into the clear pickle. By this means it may be kept sweet and firm through the hottest months of the year. CABBAGE (PICKLED).—Choose a cabbage of a dark copper colour and pointed in shape. Pick off the outside leaves, wipe it dry, and cut it in thin slices ; put in a pan a layer of salt and a layer of cabbage alternately ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, drain, and spread about in a large broad dish ; pour boiling water over the whole ; let it stand a couple of minutes, then drain, and let it remain till quite cold. Fill the jars, and pour on cold spiced vinegar; tie down. In three days it will be fit for eating. The spices usually employed are allspice, black pepper, capsicums, ginger, and mustard-seed. The most economical plan is to bruise the spice and simmer it in the vinegar before using. To ensure a beautiful pink colour use acetic acid reduced to the strength of vinegar by adding water (one part to seven), adding a modicum of spice to each jar. CABBAGE SOUP.—Wash and cut a cabbage into small pieces, throw it into a quart of water, add two or three potatoes, chopped fine, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a couple of ounces of fat pork or bacon. Boil for three or four hours. Serve with sippets. The above forms a cheap and nutritious food for a large family. CABBAGE, To Boil.—Cut off the outside leaves, pick and wash it well, nick the stalk in quarters, and lay it in salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Put into plenty of boiling water with a handful of salt and a small piece of soda, and boil it fast till tender. When done drain it in a colander, press it very gently, cut it in half, and serve with melted butter. CABBAGES, To Grow.—Sow the seeds of the earlier kinds about the end of February or March. The larger or later sorts may be sown in April and afterwards transplanted to a distance of two and a half feet asunder ; they will be ready to cut from October to December. A sowing may be made in August to stand the winter for spring and early summer use. Red Dutch, for pickling, is best if sown in the autumn, but plants may be raised in the spring. All cabbages require good soil with plenty of manure. CABINET PUDDING.—Well butter a plain round mould or basin and stick a quantity of Smyrna raisins round the interior ; then about three parts fill the mould with sponge cake, interspersing two ounces of ratafias, over which pour a good glass of brandy ; fill up the mould with