30 CARP (BROILED).—Remove the scales, and take away the gills, without damaging the tongue, which is considered one of the most delicate parts of the fish then make a small incision in the neck and another in the belly, and draw out the roe, guts, and intestines ; wash away all the blood, and dry well. Split both sides of the back, and lay the fish in vinegar and water, or in oil, with pepper and salt, for an hour and a half ; then place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, and when done thoroughly on both sides, serve with caper sauce into which has been poured a spoonful of essence of anchovies. CARP (FRIED).—Scale and cleanse the fish, wipe it dry, remove the back-bone, and lay it for a couple of hours in vinegar and water with a little shalot, garlic, allspice, whole pepper, salt, and a bay leaf; then drain, dredge it with flour, and fry quickly. Serve with fried parsley. CARP (STEWED).—Partly fry the fish, then put it into a stew- pan with a couple of glasses of port wine, half a pint of water, a little lemon juice and ketchup, an onion, two or three cloves, and some cayenne pepper. Stew till the gravy is thick, then remove the fish, strain the gravy, thicken it with flour, and pour it over the fish. CARPETS, To Clean.—To a pailful of cold water add three gills of ox-gall. Rub it into the carpet with a soft brush ; wash the lather off with cold water, and dry with a clean cloth. Fullers' earth is also often used to clease them from dirt, the colours being afterward revived by a weak solution of alum or soda. CARPETS, To Remove Grease from.—Dissolve a little soap in warm water and add half an ounce of borax to each gallon of water used. Wash the stained part thoroughly with a clean cloth and the grease will soon disappear. Another method : Boil together equal parts of fullers’ earth and ox-gall, lay the mixture while hot upon the damaged portion, and let it remain on for eight or ten hours. CARRACK.—See Sauce (Indian), CARROTS (BOILED).—Wash and scrape off the outside ; if large cut them down the centre ; put them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them boil till tender. If very young, one hour will suffice, bu> if full grown they require to boil for two or three hours. CARROT PUDDING.—Scrape a large carrot, boil it soft, rub it through a sieve, and mix it with a spoonful of biscuit powder, two eggs, a pint of cream, a little mixed spice, and two ounces of sugar ; flavour with ratafia and orange-flower water, and bake in a shallow dish. Dust it over with sugar before it is served. CARROT SOUP. — Scrape half a dozen large, rich-coloured carrots, cut them into thin slices, and stew them in two quarts of rich stock ; when quite tender force them through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; re-boil the red pulp with the stock until it is thick, add a little powdered white sugar, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. CARROTS, To Grow.—These roots require a light, sandy, well- manured, and deeply-dug soil to grow them to perfection. Seed may be sown, on a slight hot-bed, of a few of the early French and scarlet norn varieties during January and February, but for a general crop the middle of April is the best time to put in the seed. CASHMERE (BLACK), To Renovate.—Put a pint of good ale into two quarts of hot water, and sponge the material well all over. Hang it up, and when nearly dry iron it on the wrong side. It will look equal to new. It may likewise be washed in hot suds with a little borax in the water rinse in bluing water—very blue—and iron while damp.