79 tongue to it. If it tastes salt or acid, or if it emits an unpleasant smell, it should be rejected. Another good test is to weigh a piece, then soak it in water for a day and a night ; let it dry, and weigh again. The nearer it approaches its original weight the better is its quality. GLUE (WATERPROOF).—Dissolve in water twelve parts glue, add three parts yellow rosin, and when the latter is melted stir in four parts turpentine. Mix well, but very carefully, as it is highly inflammable. It is safest to do it in a water-bath. GLUE which will Resist the Action of Water.—Boil one pound of glue in two quarts of skimmed milk and use in the ordinary manner. GLYCERINE AND LIME JUICE.—Dissolve bya gentle heat half an ounce of white wax with eight ounces of oil of sweet almonds, and add gradually one ounce of glycerine, thirty-two grains of citric acid, one ounce of lime water, half an ounce of rectified spirits of wine, two ounces of water, two drams of essence of lemon, and five drops of essential oil of almonds. Or, take of white wax and spermaceti of each two ounces ; oil of sweet almonds, eight ounces ; lime juice, six ounces ; glycerate of borax, two ounces ; essence of lemon, half an ounce ; and essence of bergamot, two drams. Melt the wax and spermaceti, warm the lemon juice and glycerine, add the oil and perfume, and shake till cold. GNAT STINGS.—Wherever gnats abound the following com- pound should always be kept at hand, as it is useful, not only as a cure, but also as the best preventive against the attack of these insects. Take two ounces of spermaceti, half an ounce of white wax, one ounce of cam- phor, and two ounces of olive oil. Melt the whole together, stirring fre- quently the while. Pour into small pots for use. GOBLET PIE.—Stone and chop two ounces of raisins, wash and dry two ounces of currants, chop up two ounces of lean meat with the same weight of beef suet, and peel, core, and thinly slice two ounces of apples. Mix the ingredients together, and place them in a small pie-dish with two ounces of moist sugar. Put into a basin a quarter of a pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt; stir well together ; rub in an ounce and a half of butter, and mix to a stiff" paste with half a gill of water ; roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Grease the edges of the dish, line them with thin strips of paste, wet the edges, put on the crust, make a hole in the centre, and bake for half an hour. GOLD AND SILVER LACE, To Clean.—Sew the lace in a clean linen cloth, boil it in soft water to which soap has been added in the proportion of one pound to each gallon of water, and afterwards wash it in cold water. If tarnished, apply a little warm spirits of wine to the soiled parts, and polish with a chamois leather. GOLDEN ROD.—This plant, which flowers in the autumn, is not very ornamental, but may be found useful for concealing sheds and other unsightly objects from view. It will grow in any soil, and is propagated by division of the root. GOLD LEAF WORK.—Procure a book of gold leaf; get as many sheets of tissue as the book contains, and go over them with white wax ; lay them upon the gold leaf so that it adheres to them ; then go over the work with twenty-four hours size applied very evenly, and twenty- four hours afterwards apply the gold ; rub it firmly, and clean off with cotton wool. GOLD (LIQUID).—Grind thoroughly together upon a slab equal parts of honey and gold-leaf ; agitate with thirty times its weight of hot water ; when settled pour off the water, add fresh, and repeat the agitation. Dry the gold, and mix it with gum water.