SAUSAGES, To Make.—See under Beef and Pork. SAUSAGE SKINS, To Prepare.—Turn the skins inside out, stretch them upon a stick, and wash and scrape them until they are thoroughly cleansed ; then remove them from the sticks, and soak them in salt and water for a couple of hours before filling. SCALD HEAD, To Cure.—Mix together beef marrow and lamp- black or wood soot, cut off the hair, and apply the ointment after washing the head with soap and warm water. SCONES (SCOTCH).—To a pound of flour add a large spoonful of baking powder and a little salt; mix thoroughly while dry, rub in two ounces of butter, beat up one egg well in a quarter of a pint of milk or water, then mix the whole together quickly, and bake immediately in a quick oven. Will make eight good scones. SCORZONERA.—This root is scraped and boiled in the same way as parsnips. It is of a mild, sweetish flavour, and is much esteemed on the Continent. It is propagated by seed sown in April in rows about fifteen inches apart, and thinned out to six or seven inches in the row. SCROFULOUS SORES, Salve for.—Mix together one dram of ioduret of zinc and one ounce of lard. Apply the salve to the sores twice a day. SCURF IN THE HEAD.—Put a piece of fresh quick-lime, the size of a walnut, in a pint of water, let it stand for ten hours, then pour off the water clear of sediment, add a gill of vinegar, and with the mixture wash the roots of the hair. Or, stir quilla bark into warm water till it forms a lather, and wash the head with it once a week. SCURVY.—Eat plenty of vegetables and ripe fruit, with fresh animal food ; also take lemon juice freely. Avoid cold and damp. SEALING-WAX.—Rosin, three parts; shellac, two parts; Venice turpentine, one part. Melt together carefully, then stir in vermilion, Venetian red, red lead, smalt, lamp-black, or any other colouring matter. SEA WATER (ARTIFICIAL), for Aquariums.—Dissolve in four gallons of rain water fourteen ounces of chloride of sodium and one ounce of sulphate of magnesia, the above to be of avoirdupois weight; then add the following:—Chloride of magnesium, thirteen scruples one dram (troy), and chloride of potassium, two scruples two drams (troy). Let the water stand for some time to season before using it for fish or anemones. SEAWEED, To Preserve.—Wash the seaweed in fresh water, spread it out into a natural form, press it between two boards and several sheets of blotting-paper, putting a piece of fine muslin between the weed and the paper, which must be dried each day until all moisture has been absorbed from the seaweed ; then brush the coarser kinds over with spirits of turpentine into two-thirds of a phial of which two or three small lumps of gum-mastic have been dissolved, by shaking in a warm place. This will cause them to retain a fresh appearance. SEEDS, To Preserve.—Birch seeds may be kept till sowing time in spring, by mixing them with sand, not too dry, turning the heap regu- larly two or three times a month. Sycamore seed, well dried, may be kept in bags until spring. SEEDS, To Protect from the Ravages of Birds.—Larch, Scotch Fir, Spruce Fir, and such like seeds, may be preserved from the ravages of birds, by rolling them in red lead just before sowing. The young plants do not appear to suffer in the least from thus coating the seeds. SEIDLITZ POWDERS.—Wrap in blue paper two drams of Rochelle salts and two scruples of bicarbonate of soda. In a white paper put thirty grains of tartaric acid. When required for use dissolve the