148 them once a week a shower bath from a garden watering pot. They ara taught to speak most readily by covering the cage and repeating to them slowly and distinctly the sounds they are required to learn. PARSLEY (DRIED).—Pick the parsley in dry weather, spread it on a plate and bake it in a moderate oven, turning it frequently. When sufficiently dry, rub it between the palms of the hands, pick out all the stalks, and keep it in a closely-corked bottle in a dry situation. It answers many purposes for which fresh parsley it used, and saves the time and trouble of chopping. PARSLEY, To Grow.—Sow the seed in drills from February till the end of May, and again in August, thinning out by plucking up the weak plants so as to allow the stronger ones plenty of room to grow. The curled is used for garnishing and the plain for culinary purposes, though either will answer the latter end. PARSNIPS, To Grow.—Sow the seed, in a rich, deep soil, in rows fourteen or fifteen inches apart, and thin out to nine inches between the plants. PARSNIPS, To Stew.—Boil them in milk and water till they are tender, then scrape and cut into slices ; put them back into the saucepan with a cupful of cream, and when the cream boils pour them into a dish and serve with butter sauce. PARTRIDGE PIE.—Lay slices of veal and bacon at the bottom of a dish, and sprinkle them with parsley, onions, and mushrooms, all chopped very fine. If the partridges have been boned rub the seasoning on the inside of the birds, adding some fine bread crumbs ; lay the birds on the veal, cover them with slices of fat bacon, put in a few spoonfuls of good stock, cover with a crust, and bake. PARTRIDGES (BOILED).—Put them into a good quantity of water and boil them for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes—a large bird will require twenty-five minutes. Serve with cream sauce poured over them. PARTRIDGES (ROAST).—Partridges are roasted in the same manner as turkeys, but they should not be stuffed. When underdone, dredge them with flour, and baste with butter. Send to table with a fine froth, with the gravy in the dish, accompanied with bread crumbs browned before the fire, or with bread sauce. If preferred stuffed it should be with truffles and bacon. PARTRIDGES, To Carve.—Partridges are carved in the same way as fowls. The wing is considered the best part and the tip of the wing the choicest morsel. After this come the breast and merrythought, which are generally served to one person. PARTRIDGES, To Choose.—A young partridge has a dark bill and yellowish legs ; when old their bills turn white and their legs blue. When fresh the vent is firm ; when stale, this part goes green. PASTE FOR PAPER, A Strong.—To half a quartern of flour add sufficient cold water to form a good thick paste ; beat it perfectly free from lumps, then dissolve one ounce of alum in three quarts of boiling water ; pour it quickly, while still boiling, on to the paste, and stir round briskly till it thickens. PASTE (PERMANENT), for Paper.—Make a paste with flour and water, boil it until it is rather thick, then let it cool, and to each half pint add fifteen grains of corrosive sublimate, previously powdered in a mortar. Mix the whole thoroughly and keep in a covered pot. It will remain good for an indefinite period. PASTE STONES, for Jewellery.—Fine white sand, six pounds; red lead, four pounds; purified pearl-ashes, three pounds ; nitre, two