LEMONADE, Quickly-made.—Slice two lemons and put them Into a pan with half a pound of sugar and a quarter of a pound of gum- arabic ; pour on about two quarts of boiling water ; strain through flannel, and bottle off. A more speedy way of making the drink is by squeezing the juice of two large lemons into a jug, then adding a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pouring a quart of cold water upon the whole. It is fit for use directly the sugar is dissolved. LEMON CONSERVE.—Dry the rind of a lemon, grate it finely, and squeeze over it the juice from the lemon ; stir it together, mix to a proper consistence with boiled sugar, and pour into moulds. LEMON CORDIAL.—Cut into very thin slices the rinds of half a dozen lemons, and put them into a bottle with half a pint of spirits of wine and six bitter almonds, blanched and grated, and let it stand for seven days. Then make a syrup of a pound of white sugar, boil it well, and when cold add it to the spirits. Let it remain a week, then filter through blotting-paper, and bottle off. It improves by keeping. LEMON DROPS.—Mix some caster sugar and lemon juice to a thick paste, drop it upon white paper in small pieces, place it in h warm oven, and when nearly dry remove the paper, and stand the drops on a warm plate in the oven to finish. LEMON DUMPLINGS.—Chop up six ounces of beef suet, and mix it with half a pound of bread crumbs, two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs well beaten, the juice of three lemons, and the grated rind of one. Boil in floured cloths for one hour. LEMON HONEYCOMB.—Sweeten the juice of a lemon and pour it into a glass dish. Beat up the white of an egg with a pint of cream and a little sugar; whisk it quickly, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. Let it stand for a day before serving it at table. LEMON JUICE, To Preserve.—To a quart of lemon juice add an ounce of powdered charcoal; let it stand for a day, then filter through fine muslin ; pour into bottles, cork well, and place in a cool cellar where it will not get shaken. It will keep good for several years. LEMON KALI, A Summer Drink.—Caster sugar, half a pound ; tartaric acid, quarter of a pound ; carbonate of soda, six ounces ; essence of lemon, thirty drops. Mix, put into a bottle, cork tightly, and keep in a dry situation. A dessert-spoonful to be stirred into a tumbler of water. LEMON PEEL, Tincture of.—Put half a pint of proof spirit or brandy into a bottle, with the thin rind of a lemon ; let stand for a fort- night, when the spirit will be highly flavoured. LEMON PUDDING (BAKED).—Blanch and beat half a pound of Jordan almonds with orange flower water ; add half a pound of butter, the yolks of eight or ten eggs, the juice of a large lemon, and half the rind grated ; work them in a mortar till white ; put puff paste into a shallow dish ; pour in the pudding, and bake for half an hour. LEMONS (PICKLED).—Choose some small lemons with thick rinds, rub them with flannel, and slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp; fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, and set them upright in a pan three days until the salt melts ; then turn them in their own liquor two or three times a day until tender. Make enough pickle to cover them of vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil and skim ; when cold put it to the lemons with two ounces of mustard- seed and three cloves of garlic for each half dozen lemons. Put into jars and cover closely. LEMON SPONGE.—Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a pint and three-quarters of water ; strain, and add three-quarters of a pound of