ai stains are removed, then rinse in clear water. Stains of all kinds may be removed by rinsing the bottles first with muriatic acid (spirits of salt), and afterwards with clear water. BOTTLE WAX, To Make.—Mix a pound of beeswax with a pound of resin and half a pound of tallow ; add red or yellow ochre, or other colouring matter, and melt the whole together, stirring until they are well incorporated. If white wax be desired use bleached wax in the place of the ordinary beeswax, and add a little Spanish white. BOUQUET, To Preserve a.—First sprinkle it lightly with fresh water, then put it into a vessel containing soap suds. Take the bouquet out of the suds every morning, and lay it sideways (the stock entering first) into clean water, keep it there a couple of minutes, then take it out and sprinkle the flowers lightly with water. Replace it in the soap suds and it will be as fresh as when first gathered. The suds must be changed every three days. If carefully treated in this way, wedding and other bouquets may be kept bright for at least a month. BOWELS, Composing Mixture for the.—Tincture of opii, four drams ; sal volatile, four drams ; essence of ginger, four drams ; essence of peppermint, four drams. Take half a teaspoonful in half a wineglass of water. This mixture is good for wind in the stomach, pains, sinking sensation, low spirits, &c. BOWELS, Laxity of the, with Pain.—Brandy, half a quartern; syrup of rhubarb, one ounce and a half ; tincture of rhubarb, one ounce ; essence of peppermint, three-quarters of an ounce ; laudanum, a quarter of an ounce. Dose : A dessert-spoonful in a glass of warm water. BRANDY BALLS.—Proceed as directed for the making of barley sugar, taking small pieces while hot, and rolling them up into small round balls about the size of a Spanish nut. BRAN TEA.—Put a handful of bran in a pint and a half of cold water, boil it for an hour and three-quarters, then strain, and flavour with sugar and lemon juice. This is a very cheap and useful drink in colds, fevers, and restlessness from pain. BRASS AND COPPER, To Whiten.—Take some white tartar, alum, and grain tin, and boil the articles therein. They will soon acquire a coating of tin, which, when well polished, will have the appearance of silver. BRASS-WORK, To Clean.—If very dirty, first wash and scrub it with soda or potash lye, then dip it into a mixture of equal parts of nitric acid, sulphuric acid, and water ; or, if it cannot conveniently be immersed, make a small swab of woollen cloth on the end of a stick and rub the solution over the brass ; leave the acid on for a moment, then wash clean and polish. If not very dirty it may be cleaned with oxalic acid only. BRAWN.—Rub a pig’s head with a mixture of three parts salt and one part saltpetre, and let it lie in the pickle for two or three days ; then boil it till the meat leaves the bones ; season with pepper and salt, put it while hot into a mould, press it down with a weight for a few hours, and boil for one hour longer. Previous to putting the meat into the mould, the tongue should be cut into slices and interspersed with the other parts. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—Butter a dish well; then lay in a few slices of thin bread and butter. Boil a pint of milk, pour it over two eggs, well beaten, and then on the bread and butter! Bake in a brisk oven for half an hour. Currants or raisins may be added. BREAD (BROWN), To Make.—Mix three parts of seconds flour and the fourth part of rye, lay it in a cool place for a night, and the