57 EELS (BROILED).—Gut and clean the fish without removing the skin, cut them into lengths of six or seven inches, coat them well with the yolk of eggs, and strew them over with bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt. Rub the gridiron over with suet, to prevent the skin sticking to it, and broil to a nice light brown. Serve with melted butter and anchovy sauce. Large eels are best for this purpose. EELS (COLLARED).—Select some fine large eels, clean them, and remove the bones, but leave the skin on. Spread out the flesh and rub it well all over with finely chopped parsley, sage, and mixed spice ; then bind it up tightly with broad tape, and boil for three-quarters of an hour, with a large handful of salt and a bay leaf in the water; remove the fish and hang to dry for ten or twelve hours. Add to the fish-water a pint of vinegar, some thyme, and a little whole pepper. Let them boil together for ten or fifteen minutes, then stand the liquor by. After the eels have hung the allotted time, carefully remove the tape, cut the fish into slices, and put them into the liquor. Send to table garnished with sprigs of parsley. EELS (FRIED).—Skin, empty, and wash the eels ; cut them into lengths of about four inches, and dry them. Season with salt and pepper, flour thickly, and fry in boiling lard. Drain, and send to table with plain melted butter and a lemon. EEL SOUP.—Take two pounds of eels, and put them into a stew-pan with two quarts of water, an onion, a small piece of mace, a little whole pepper, lemon thyme, winter savory, and parsley. Cover close down and stew till the fish separates, or till half the liquor has boiled away, then strain. Toast some bread, cut it into angular pieces, put them into a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Carrot is sometimes used to brown the soup. EELS (STEWED).—The more simply this dish is made the better the flavour of the fish is preserved. When cleaned, cut them into pieces about three inches long, and fry them until half cooked. Then put them into a stew-pan with enough good beef gravy to cover them, a partly boiled onion, and parsley ; flavour with pepper, salt, a little shred lemon peel, mace, cloves, and nutmeg. Stew gently till tender. A glass of sherry wine, a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, and a couple of finely-chopped anchovies may be added ; or a glass of port wine with the juice of half a lemon is sometimes preferred. Strain, thicken with the yolk of egg, or butter rolled in flour, and serve. EFFERVESCING POWDERS.—Mix five parts of well dried tartaric acid with six parts of bicarbonate of soda, and add sufficient strong alcohol to reduce it to a moist condition ; then pass it through a moder- ately coarse sieve, and stand it to dry. If desired, it may be flavoured with a little oil of lemon dissolved in the alcohol. Upon the addition of water the mixture will effervesce to the last atom. EGG BROUILLES.—Beat together the yolks and whites of eight eggs, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a little pepper and salt ; stir constantly with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until done, taking care that the brouiltes do not become clotty. Add a spoonful of broth, with cucumbers or asparagus heads. EGG CROQUETTES.— Cut the whites of nine hard-boiled eggs into small dice, and press the yolks of three eggs through a hair sieve (more yolks would make the croquettes too dry). Next cut an onion into dice, pour over it two ounces of hot butter, add gradually a spoonful of flour, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with boiling milk. Throw the whites and yolks into the sauce. Let them cool, and cover them with bread crumbs. Serve garnished with fried parsley. 9