75 GERANIUMS FROM CUTTINGS, To Propagate.—Taka some nice young shoots at the end of July and plant them in a light, sandy soil, place them under a south wall in the full sunshine, water them freely as soon as planted, and leave them unshaded for some weeks. Unless the weather is very dry they may remain without further care till taken in when cold weather sets in. GHERKINS (PICKLED).—Prepare a pickle of best vinegar, half a gallon ; salt, three ounces ; allspice and mustard, of each half an ounce ; mace and cloves, of each a quarter of an ounce ; some sliced horse-radish, and a little sliced nutmeg. Boil together for a quarter of an hour, skim well, and when cold pour it over the gherkins. Let them stand covered for twenty-four hours, then put them into a saucepan and let them simmer till they become green. When cold tie the jars down with bladder. GIBLET PIE.—Clean the giblets and boil them a short time in a small quantity of water with some pieces of beef or veal, an onion, and a few sweet herbs. Let it get cold, then cut the heart, liver, and gizzard in slices, put the whole of the meat into a pie-dish, season with pepper and salt, add the liquor in which the giblets were boiled, put on the crust, and bake. When done, raise the crust and stir in a cupful of cream. GIBLET SOUP.—Scald two sets of goose giblets, cut them in pieces and put them into a saucepan with a pound of gravy beef, a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of whole white pepper, and the same quantity of salt ; cover with water, and stew until the gizzards are tender, then strain. Pour the soup back into the saucepan, thicken with butter and flour, boil it ten minutes longer, skim, add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a little lemon juice, and cayenne pepper ; return the giblets to the soup, and serve very hot. This soup may likewise be made with duck giblets. GILT FRAMES, To Preserve.—Gilt frames, chandeliers, and burnished brass-work may be preserved from tarnishing and damage by flies by a slight coating of naphtha or coal oil. A coating of clear parchment size will prevent dirt darkening them, as they may then be sponged with cold water, or, if very much soiled, with oil of turpentine. They should not afterwards be wiped, but left to drain dry. GILT FRAMES, To Prevent Flies Spoiling.—Pour boiling water on to a quantity of onions, let them stand for about a week, so that their strength may be extracted, then wash the gilt-work with the liquor. It should be done at least twice during the spring and summer. GILT ORNAMENTS, To Clean.—Make a strong solution of cyanide of potassium ; apply with a stiff brush, and well wash it off after- wards with water, using a softer brush ; dry with a cloth or in boxwood sawdust. GINGER BEER POWDERS.—Carbonate of soda, thirty grains ; powdered ginger, five grains ; refined sugar, one dram ; essence of lemon, two drops. Dissolve in half a tumbler of cold water, to which add thirty grains of tartaric acid. Drink while effervescing. GINGER BEER, To Make Superior.—Dr. Pereira, in his treatise on diet, gives the following directions for making one hundred bottles of good beer at a cost of about two shillings White sugar, five pounds • lemon juice, quarter of a pint; honey, quarter of a pound ; bruised ginger’ five ounces; water, four and a half gallons. Boil the ginger in three quarts of the water for half an hour, then add the sugar, lemon juice, and honev, with remainder of the water. Boil again, strain through a cloth, and when cold add the fourth part of the white of an egg and a teaspoonful of essence of