i S i SLEEPLESSNESS, To Avert.—Various methods have been devised to accomplish this much desired end, but perhaps the following will be found the most effectual, the first especially when the evil results from over-excitement of the brain :—Wet half a towel, and apply it to the back of the neck, pressing it upwards towards the base of the brain, and fastening the dry half of the towel over so as to prevent too rapid ex- halation. Warm water may be used, but cold is to be preferred. The effect is rapid, cooling to the brain, and inducing sweeter, calmer repose than any narcotic. Another method, which the writer has never known to fail, is to lie with the eyes turned up into the head, as though looking into the brain, which is their natural position during sleep. A pillow stuffed with hops is said to act as a narcotic. SLUGS, To Destroy.—Put some freshly powdered lime into a coarse canvas bag, and dust the ground with it at night, or before sunrise. The smallest particle of the lime will destroy them. Or cut some turnips into slices, and strew them about the garden in the evening. The slugs will congregate thereon, and may be destroyed by throwing them into salt water. They must be looked for very early in the morning, or they will make their escape. SMELLING SALTS.—See Salts (Preston). SMELTS (FRIED), French Way.—Prepare and dry the smelts, dip them in milk, dredge them with flour, and fry them until they are of a fine colour. Serve with crisped parsley. Time, three or four minutes. This delicate fish requires to be carefully handled. SMELTS, To Choose.—When fresh they have a fine silvery hue, and smell somewhat like newly-cut cucumbers. SNAILS, To Prevent Damage from.—Daub the bottom of the wall, trees, &c., with a thick paste made with soot and train-oil. They will not crawl over this. They may be readily caught by spreading a little bran on the ground and covering it with cabbage leaves or broken tiles. Examine the trap each morning. SNAPDRAGON, or Lion’s Mouth.—There are many varieties of this plant, which is an extremely ornamental one for the tops of walls. They all prefer a dry, loamy, or calcareous soil, and are propagated either by seed or cuttings taken from the young shoots every year. Choice kinds should always be obtained in the latter manner, as although seedlings are produced in abundance, they are not to be depended on. SNOW CAKE.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, then gradually add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of arrowroot, a pinch of salt, and a flavouring of either lemon, almond, or vanilla. Whisk the whites of three eggs to snow, stir them into the mixture, and beat it again until it is light and white. Butter a shallow mould or tin with raised edges, pour in the batter, and bake in a gentle oven for an hour and a quarter. It should not be allowed to acquire a colour. When done enough, let it cool a little, then with a sharp knife divide it into pieces about two inches square. Keep it in a cool, dry place. SNOWDROPS, To Cultivate.—These plants are well worthy of a place in every garden, on account of their pure and early bloom. They are propagated by off-sets, which should be planted in moist, shady situations during August or September, at a depth of two or three inches. They may remain undisturbed for several years together, although to pre- vent them growing uneven and rugged, it is advisable to take them up every three or four years, but they must not be removed from the earth till their leaves have withered.