3* will produce heads in July and August. Continue to make small sowings at intervals to the end of May. Cauliflowers require a rich earth. CAULIFLOWER WITH PARMESAN.—Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will stand upright a couple of inches above the dish. Stew it for a few minutes with a little white sauce ; put it on a dish, pour the sauce round, and grate Parmesan cheese over the top. Colour w'ith a salamander, and serve. CAYENNE PEPPER (ENGLISH), To Make.—Place the pods of chillies before the fire for about ten hours, and when they are perfectly dry pound them in a mortar with their weight of salt. When reduced to a very fine powder, secure in stoppered bottles. CELERY, Essence of.—Infuse the root of the plant for twenty-four hours in spirits of wine or brandy, then remove it and steep more root in the liquor until the desired strength is obtained. A few drops of the essence will suffice to flavour soups, &c. CELERY SOUP.—Wash and scrape a head of celery and put it into a pint of boiling water with a little salt. Let it boil until soft, then mash it fine in the water, and pass it through a soup-strainer. Turn this into a pint of hot milk that has been thickened by having a tablespoonful of flour wet with cold milk cooked in it; add a teaspoonful of salt, the same amount of pepper, and two ounces of butter. As soon as the butter is melted, stir the soup quickly for a few moments, and serve hot. This makes a most delicious dish. CELERY, To Grow.—Sow the seed in a moderate hot-bed at the end of February for an early crop, and again in March and April for suc- cessive ones ; prick out in a well-prepared bed of old dung, and transplant in June and July into trenches, water freely, but avoid earthing up while the soil or plants are in a wet state. CEMENT, A Weatherproof.—The following composition may be recommended as a good protection against water and weather :—Mix two gallons of brine with a gallon of water ; then stir in two pounds and a half of brown sugar and three pounds of common salt. Apply with a brush, like paint. The above is also, to a certain extent, a protection against fire. CEMENT (DIAMOND), for China, &c.—Soak isinglass in water till it is soft, then dissolve it in the smallest possible quantity of proof spirit, by the aid of a gentle heat. In each ounce of this mixture dissolve five grains of ammoniacum, and while still liquid add the quarter of a dram of rectified spirit; stir well together, and put it into bottles. When required for use liquefy the cement by standing the bottle in hot water and use it at once. CEMENT FOR BLACK SATIN, &c.—Mix lamp black and brown hard varnish together until the required consistence is obtained. Apply sparingly. CEMENT FOR CHINA.—Make a thick solution of gum arabic with warm water, and stir in plaster of Paris. Use while warm and set the article away for two or three days to dry. It cannot be broken again in the same place. CEMENT FOR CISTERNS.—Add sufficient boiled linseed oil to equal parts of white and red lead to produce a thin paste. Spread this over the metal and allow it to thoroughly dry. CEMENT FOR EARTHEN WARE. — To half a pint of vinegar add half a pint of skimmed milk ; mix the curd with the whites of six eggs, well beaten, and sufficient powdered quicklime to form a paste. This preparation will resist the action of water and a moderate amount of heat.