97 caster sugar and a cupful of cream. Fill the dish almost to the brim with fruit properly sugared, heap the rice over it, leaving it rough, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Apples and other hard fruit require stewing with the sugar before being added to the rice. INDIAN PUDDING, Another Way of Making.—Mix with one quart of boiling milk a cupful of maize, three ounces of treacle, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, and a little salt ; stir in a cupful of cold water, pour into a buttered dish, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. INDIAN SYRUP.—Pour half a gallon of boiling water on to two pounds and a half of loaf sugar and one ounce of citric acid. When cold add half a dram of essence of lemon and half as much of spirits of wine. Stir well and pour it into a bottle. Two tablespoonfuls in a glass of cold water makes a refreshing summer drink. INDIARUBBER AND GUTTA PERCHA, To Dissolve.— Indiarubber and gutta percha may be dissolved by soaking them in iiquid sulphuret of carbon, in wood naphtha, or in benzine. Great caution must be exercised that no naked light is brought near these liquids. INDIGESTION, Remedy for.—Infusion of columba, six ounces ; carbonate of potass, one dram ; compound tincture of gentian, three drams. Mix. Dose: Three tablespoonfuls each day an hour before dinner. The juice of a lemon taken immediately after the principal meal of the day is also beneficial. INFANTS, Relaxing Medicine for.—If found necessary to relax the bowels quickly give from one to two teaspoonfuls (according to age) of castor oil in warm water ; but for an occasional aperient Turkey rhubarb is preferable. For an infant give from ten to twelve grains, and for a child three years old fifteen or sixteen grains. INFANTS, The Teething of.—The teeth usually begin to appear in a child when it is seven months old. The two front ones in the lower jaw are invariably the first cut, then the two corresponding ones in the upper jaw, and so on. The dog teeth immediately follow the front ones, and these are succeeded by the grinders, a complete set of first teeth numbering sixteen in all. Should a rash break out on the face or head ; or behind the ears during teething, wash the part with warm water, dry, and dust with oatmeal or violet powder. Gently rubbing the gums with the finger will greatly assist the tooth in forcing its way through the flesh, but if they become red and swollen, and convulsions are feared, it is advisable to have them lanced. INFANTS, To Feed.—A newly born baby thrives best upon breast milk, which should be supplied every two or three hours in the day and about three times during the night. After a few weeks three meals a day only is neces- sary, and none during the night, as it often occasions gripes. If the mother have not milk enough or cannot suckle the child, give cow’s milk diluted with a third part of warm water and sweetened with loaf-sugar. When the child has been weaned—which should be gradually begun from the first appearance of the teeth—bread and milk, bread pudding, and other light food should be given, but on no account should meat be given until the child has sufficient teeth to masticate it thoroughly. Brown bread is pre- ferable to the white, as the latter generally contains alum, which chemically destroys all the bone-making substance which exists in wheaten flour. INFANTS, To Prevent Convulsions in.—Rub a little dry mustard, once or twice a week, behind the ears or on the back of the neck for five minutes, or until the skin grows very red. This will often prevent an attack of the fit when the child is subject to convulsions. See also Convulsions in Children. 14