of half a pound of salt and one ounce each of sugar and saltpetre, and let it stand for three or four days, then cut it in pieces and boil till tender. When cold, beat it to a paste in a marble mortar, adding by degrees a little melted fat, pepper, allspice, cloves, or such spices as may be approved of. Press it into pots and pour upon the meat a layer, a quarter of an inch thick, of clarified butter or pure mutton fat ; cover the pots with a bladder, and keep in a cool place. BEEF SAUSAGES.—Chop up finely four pounds of lean beef and two pounds of beef suet; mix them with one pound of bread crumbs ; season with pepper and salt, and add powdered sage and sweet herbs to taste ; then press into prepared skins. BEEF (SPICED).—Take a saltspoonful of finely-pounded mace, half a nutmeg ground to a powder, a teaspoonful of cloves, a saltspoonful each of cayenne and black pepper, and a quarter of a pound of coarse brown sugar; mix them thoroughly, and, having procured about seven pounds of the round or flank of beef, rub the above mixture into the meat for three successive days, turning it each day ; afterwards add six ounces of salt to the mixture and rub the beef well with it for a further period of eight days ; rinse it in clear water, put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of good beef broth, keep it well skimmed till it boils, then add an onion, a little parsley, and sweet herbs, and let the whole stew gently for four or five hours. BEEF TEA.—Take half a pound of gravy beef (the sticken), cut it into small squares, lay it in a dish, and pour on to it a .pint of boiling water ; stand it by the fire for three-quarters of an hour, then put it into a saucepan, boil it up, strain, and add a little salt. BEEF, To Choose.—The best ox beef is of a deep coral red and has an open grain, while the fat is smooth and oily and rather white and the suet firm and white. Heifer beef has a closer grain, is not of such a deep colour, and the fat is whiter. Cowr beef is likewise of a paler red, and the older it is the coarser the flesh becomes and the harder to the touch. Meat with yellow fat should be avoided, as it is a sign of inferior quality. BEEF TONGUES (BOILED).—Dress the tongues directly they are taken from the pickle, or if they have remained there long throw them into cold water for three or four hours until they are soft ; then bring them gently to a boil, and simmer until tender. Remove the scum as it rises, and when they are half done throw in a good-sized bunch of sweet herbs. Time, about five hours. BEEF TONGUES (FRIED).—If fresh, soak them in clear water for six or seven hours, but if pickled they may be cooked at once. Boil them tender, peel, and cut into slices. Mix the beaten yolk of an egg with a little lemon juice, nutmeg, and sugar, rub it over the slices, and fry in hot butter. Serve with melted butter, with which is mixed a little sugar and a glass of sherry w'ine. BEER BARRELS, To Sweeten.—Wine and beer casks maybe rendered perfectly sweet by rinsing them first with vitriol and water, and afterwards with pure water. Or, mix lime with water to the consistence of treacle, run it all over the inside of the cask, let it remain till dry, then cleanse with water. This method is adopted in many of our breweries. BEER, Finings for.—Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a quart of stalo beer, simmer to the consistence of syrup, add a tablespoonful of salt and a quarter of a pint of powdered oyster shells ; put them into half a gallon of beer, and stir it till it ferments. This quantity is sufficient for ntty gallons of beer.