no dry each separately by a gentle heat, then mix them together, flavour with one dram of essence of lemon, rub through a sieve, put into bottles, and keep well corked for use. KALYDOR.—This cosmetic for rendering the complexion clear and free from blotches is made by mixing two drams of tincture of benzoin with one pint of rose-water. Apply with a soft towel. KETCHUP (COCKLE).—Open the shells, and scald the fish in their own liquor. When settled, add a little water, and strain; season with mixed spice, and if for brown sauce, add a little port wine and a few anchovies. KETCHUP (MUSHROOM).—Break up small a number of mushrooms, put them into a pan, sprinkle with salt, and let them lie for several days, stirring them well each day; then let them stand another week without stirring, until a thick scum rises to the top ; strain the liquor, and boil it with ginger, peppercorns, cloves, mustard-seed, and mace tied in a muslin bag. When cold bottle it, leaving the spice in, cork it tight, set it by for three months, then boil it up again, and when cold bottle off and tie down. It will keep good a long while. KETCHUP (OYSTER).—Take a pint of unshelled oysters, wash them in their own liquor, and pound them in a mortar ; strain the liquor and add it to the oysters with a pint of sherry ; boil them up, and add one ounce of salt, two drams of pounded mace, and one dram of cayenne pepper ; boil it up again for a second or two, skim, and rub it through a sieve. When cold pour it into bottles, cork well, and seal the bottles down. KETCHUP (WALNUT).—Beat up in a mortar a hundred green walnuts, and put them into a jar with half a pound of sliced eschalots, a head of garlic, half a pound of salt, and half a gallon of vinegar. Stand them by for a fortnight, stirring them night and morning. Strain off the liquor and boil it for half an hour, adding two ounces of anchovies, two ounces of whole pepper, half ail ounce of cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of mace ; skim it well, strain, and let it stand till cold, then pour it gently from the sediment into bottles. Cork securely, and store in a dry place. The sedi- ment may be used for flavouring sauces. KETTLES (BRASS AND COPPER), To Clean.—The appli- cation of a little salt and vinegar will keep brass and copper kettles clean, and will prevent them becoming deleterious to health. KIDNEY PUDDING.—Cut the kidney in slices, soak it, and season with pepper and salt. Line a basin with suet crust, put in the kidney, cover with paste, tie in a cloth and boil. These puddings are also made with the addition of stcnk. KIDNEYS (BROILED ).—Slice them through the long way, score them, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, run a skewer through them, and broil over a clear fire for ten or twelve minutes, turning them frequently with a fork, but taking care not to allow the prongs to enter them, other- wise the gravy will be lost. KIDNEYS (FRIED).—Put the kidneys into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry them for a quarter of an hour over a brisk fire, and when they are done remove them from the pan, stir into the gravy a spoonful of flour, and when this has browned add as much water as will make a gravy. KNIVES (HANDLES OF), Cement for.—Mix together four parts of resin, one part of beeswax, and one part of fine brick-dust. Fill the apertures of the handles with the mixture, then heat the stocks of the knives and force them into the handles. Directly they are cold they will ba 1 firmly set.