104 IXIA.—This lovely genus of delicate and brilliant flowers flourish best in the greenhouse. Plant the bulbs during October in a mixture of peat-earth, leaf-mould, and light sandy loam, slightly enriched with thoroughly rotted dung, putting a stratum of small shingle at the bottom of the pots. The bulbs may remain undisturbed for two years, but the pots must be placed in a dry situation as soon as the bloom has gone off. A wet subsoil is fatal to them at all times. Seedlings generally flower in their third year. JACK, To Choose, See.—If fresh the gills will be red, the eyes bright, and the flesh firm and stiff. The best are those caught in rivers ; those inhabiting ponds are not so good in flavour. Being a very dry fish it requires to be stuffed and served with sauce in the same manner as pike. JAM (APPLE). —Half fill a jar with water, cut some apples into quarters, remove the cores, and fill up the jar with the apples, tie a paper over the top, and put into a slow oven. When quite soft, pulp them through a sieve, and to each pound of pulp add three-quarters of a pound of pre- serving sugar, and boil gently until it jellies. Put into jars, and tie down in the usual way. In a dry place it will keep three or four years. JAM (APRICOT, GREENGAGE, OR PLUM).—Remove the stones from the fruit, cut away any blemishes, put them over a slow fire with half a pint of water, and when scalded rub them through a hair sieve. To every pound of pulp add one pound of sifted loaf sugar ; put it in a preserving-pan over a brisk fire, and when it boils take off the scum, throw in the kernels and half an ounce of blanched bitter almonds. Boil quickly for fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time; remove it from the fire, pour into pots, and when cold cover and tie down. JAM (BLACKBERRY).- -Gather the fruit when it is dry, and for each pound allow half a pound of sugar. Boil together gently for an hour, or till the berries are soft, stirring and mashing them thoroughly. Pour into pots. When cold cover the jam with a paper dipped in brandy, and tie down with a bladder. JAM (CHERRY). —Stone eight pounds of cherries, and press them through a sieve. Boil a pint of raspberry juice with two pounds of loaf sugar, and while boiling add the cherries and another pound of sugar. Let the whole boil together quickly for half an hour ; pour into jars, and cover in the usual way. JAM (GOOSEBERRY). —Choose ripe, red, rough gooseberries, remove the stalks and crops ; put them into a preserving-pan, and, as they warm, stir, and press out the juice. Boil them ten minutes, then to each pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of preserving sugar. Let the whole boil slowly for two hours, stirring constantly to prevent its burning. When it thickens and is jelly-like on a plate when cold, it is done enough. Pour it into pots, and let it stand a day before covering it over. JAM (GRAPE). —Stew the grapes to a soft pulp, strain ; then add to them their own weight of sugar; boil slowly for nearly half an hour, stirring well from time to time. JAM (GREENGAGE).—Peel the fruit, remove the stones, and to each pound add three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; boil for half an hour, and add a little lemon juice just before removing the jam from the fire. JAM (RASPBERRY).—Weigh the fruit and add three-quarters of the weight of sugar ; put the raspberries into a preserving-pan, boil, and break them up, stir constantly, and cause the fruit to boil very quickly for one hour ; then add the sugar and simmer for half an hour. In this way the jam is superior in colour and flavoivr to that which is made by putting the sugar in first.