TAN.—Reduce nut-galls to a coarse powder, infuse them in water, and evaporate the solution to dryness. The dark matter left behind is the tan. It may also be precipated from the solution by mineral acids. TANSEY, To Propagate.—This strong flavoured aromatic herb is raised from slips or off-sets taken in spring or autumn, and planted a foot or more apart. TAPEWORM, To Eject.—Take from one to two ounces of Venice turpentine every eight hours until the worm be ejected. Santonine is also effectual if taken in doses of from one to six grains, according to age. The liquid extract of the male fern is likewise recommended. TAPEWORM, To Kill.—Digest one ounce of fern buds in eight ounces of sulphuric ether; strain, and take thirty drops before breakfast. Follow this up the next morning with an ounce of castor oil. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—Wash two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in cold water ; strain, put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk and a half- inch stick of cinnamon ; let it simmer slowly till all the milk is absorbed, then take out the cinnamon, and pour the tapioca into a pan to cool. Beat up two eggs with an ounce of moist sugar, stir the mixture into the tapioca ; pour it into a greased pie-dish, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. TARRAGON, To Grow.—This fine flavoured aromatic plant, so essential in flavouring soups and salads, is raised from cuttings of the stalks in May and June, in a shady border, and by bottom off-sets in spring. TARTAR, Cream of.—Scrape off the crust from the bottom and side of casks in which wine has been kept ; dissolve it in boiling water, and filter while hot. On cooling, the irregular crystals commonfy known as cream of tartar will be deposited. TAR WATER, To Make.—Boil an ounce of tar in a pint and a half of water, stirring well, then pour it out, let it stand for three or four days, and draw off free from sediment. Useful in chest affections, and to strengthen the voice. TEA CAKES.—To one pound of flour add a large teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt, and a few currants and sultanas ; mix in a dry state ; then rub in two ounces of butter ; beat up one egg in a tea- cupful of milk, and mix the whole together quickly. Bake in a sharp oven. TEA-KETTLES, To Prevent the Furring of.—The incrustation familiarly known as "fur,” which all water except rain water will deposit in the inside of tea-kettles, may be prevented by simply placing a clean oyster-shell in the kettle ; this will attract all the particles of earth or stone, and keep the inside of the kettle in good order. TEA-KETTLES, To Remove Fur from.—Fur may be removed from tea-kettles by applying a strong solution of pearlash. TEA, To Make.—To make tea to perfection the water must be poured on the leaves directly it boils. In no case should water be used which has been boiling for more than five minutes, or which has previously boiled ; for if the water does not boil, or is allowed to overboil, the flavour will be only partially extracted, and consequently the tea itself will be spoiled. The water should remain on the leaves at least ten minutes before it is served out. TEETH, Cement for Stopping Decayed.—Dissolve one part of mastic in two parts of collodion. Introduce the cement into the tooth on a small piece of cotton. TEETH (HOLLOW), To Fill.—Take of anhydrous phosphoric acid, forty-eight grains, and pure caustic lime, fifty-two grains ; pulverise them together in a mortar till they are very fine. Having previously