LIME, Burns from.—See Burns from Lime. LIME WATER, To Make.—Put a piece of unslaked lime the size of an egg into a winebottleful of cold water, shake it up a few times, and let it settle, then pour off the clear portion. The water will not take up more than a certain quantity of the lime. LINEN (MILDEWED), To Cleanse.—Wash and wring out the linen, soap the spots, and afterwards rub into them some powdered chalk ; lay the linen to dry in the sunshine. If the mildew is deep, a second ap- plication may be necessary. LINEN POLISH, A Good.—Melt together three ounces of white wax, three drams of spermaceti, half a pound of borax, and an ounce and a half of gum-tagacanth. Put a piece the size of a walnut into a quart ol starch made in the usual manner. LINEN, To Impart a Gloss to.—Pour on to two ounces of gum- arabic a pint of boiling water ; cover it up until the next day, then strain it carefully from the dregs and put it into a clean bottle. A tablespoonful of this liquid stirred into a pint of ordinary starch will give to shirt-fronts and collars the appearance of being new. LINEN, To Remove Fruit Stains from.—Rub each side of the stained portion with soap, then tie up in the linen a piece of pearlash, soak it in boiling water, and expose it to the sun and air till the stains disap- pear. LINEN, To Remove Ink Spots from.—Dip the injured portion of the linen in hot water, stretch it tightly over a jug of boiling water, and rub on some salts of lemon. Acetic or muriatic acid may be used in the same way. Directly the spot disappears sponge the place with a rag dipped in cold water. LINEN, To Remove Tea and Coffee Stains from.—Stains of tea and coffee maybe removed from linen by soaking the article in warm water as soon as possible after the injury is sustained, then soaped and rubbed. They will disappear with the next washing. When they have been left for some time, an application of pure glycerine is effective. LINEN, To Remove Wine Stains from.—Wine stains will soon disappear if the linen be held in milk that is boiling on the fire. If more convenient, before washing the linen, put it into a bowl, pour upon the stained portion some boiling milk. Let it stand till it gets cold. After washing and boiling the stains will be removed. LINEN, To Take Scorch out of.—Shirt-fronts and other articles scorched during the process of ironing may be restored to their former whiteness by laying them in the open air where the heat of the sun falls directly on them. LINNETS.—The male bird may be distinguished from the hen by being browner on the back and by having some of the large feathers of the wings white up to the quills. Their food should consist principally of hemp seed, with occasionally a little groundsel, water-cress, chickweed, and plantain. l-rtrv SEED OIL, To Refine.—With one quart of the oil mix three ounces of powdered litharge ; simmer with frequent stirring, until a pellicle or skin begins to form ; remove the scum, and when it has become cold and settled, decant the clear portion. LINSEED POULTICE.—Mix in a heated basin four table- spoonfuls of crushed linseed with a dessert-spoonful of olive oil ; add gradually sufficient boiling water to make it into a thick paste, keeping it constantly stirred while so doing ; spread it evenly on a piece of cambric, apply to the affected part, and cover with a piece of oilskin or other water- proof covering.