i3° and in moist woods, and makes a good border or fringe for rock-work. It is readily struck from small portions of the root planted in peat earth and well supplied with water. MONKEYS.—These quadrumanous animals are fed upon nuts, fruit, and bread. A small bone may now and again be given them for their amusement, but meat should not be administered. They require to be kept very warm, and their coats should be frequently combed and brushed. MONTPELIER (BUTTER OF).—Take a handful of chervil, tarragon, burnet, and green onions ; wash them clean, and blanch them in boiling water, with a handful of salt to keep them green. When they have boiled six minutes take them out, and put into cold water till quite cold. Drain the herbs, then squeeze all the water out, and pound them with the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs, ten or twelve anchovies, boned, two spoonfuls of capers, a small piece of garlic, a little cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. When pounded very fine, add half a pound of fresh butter, a spoonful of sweet oil and a spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Rub it through a sieve, and to make it greener add spinach water. If the butter is required to be red, infuse all the herbs in a little boiled vinegar and use lobster spawn to colour it. Be careful that the flavour of no one herb predominates. Put the butter into ice, and use it for borders of salads of fish, &c. MOOR GAME (POTTED).—Wash the birds, wipe them dry, and season well with allspice, mace, nutmeg, and salt; put into a pot, cover with butter, and bake in a slow oven. When cold, remove the butter, drain off the gravy, and put the birds into separate pots ; then put butter into a basin, set it in a bowl of hot water to melt, and cover each bird with the butter. MORTAR (FIRE PROOF), for Stoves, &c.—Take two-thirds of the best lime and one-third of smith’s black dust, and mix with the necessary quantity of water. The mortar so formed will set nearly as hard as iron. MOSS, To Dye, &c.—Moss or grass may be dyed in all the colours that will dissolve. For pink boil together in water logwood and ammonia ; for red, logwood and alum ; for blue, indigo. After they have taken the colour dip them in a weak solution of gum-water to keep them together. MOTHS, BEETLES, &c., FOR COLLECTIONS.—These insects may be killed ■without injuring their outward appearance by shutting them up in a small box containing freshly bruised laurel leaves. MOTHS, BEETLES, &c., To Keep them from Clothes.—A few small bags of aromatic herbs placed in the boxes or drawers where clothes are kept will keep them free from moth, worm, &c. ; but, perhaps, nothing proves more effectual in preventing the ravages of these insects upon linen and woollen goods than a few pieces of camphor scattered among the articles. A small piece of paper moistened with turpentine and put into the ward- robe or drawers for a day or two, about three times a year, is a sufficient preventive against moth. MOUSE AND RAT HOLES, To Stop.—Break some glass up small, mix it with plaster of Paris, and insert it in the holes. It must be used directly it is mixed into a paste, as it sets very quickly.- Common hard soap rammed into the holes will also prove very effectual. MOUTHS (SORE).—Boil some hyssop in water for ten minutes ; strain, and when cold use as a gargle. MOUTH-WASH (CAMPHORATED).—Dissolve two ounces of camphor in half a pint of water, and then add half a pint of eau-de- Cologne.