128 MILK SOUP.—Boil a quart of milk with two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, a couple of bay leaves, and a little cinnamon ; pour it over sippets ot toasted bread, and when these are soft, simmer the whole over a charcoal fire ; then mix the yolks of two eggs with a little milk, put it into the soup, mix, and serve. MILK (SPICED).—Rub together one ounce of lump sugar and twelve drops of essence of vanilla, and add gradually one pint of hot milk. Or, put two ounces of stick cinnamon into a bottle of old Irish whisky, macerate a fortnight, and take a small wineglassful in half a pint of hot milk. This is both nutritious, sustaining, and warming on a cold morning. MILK, To Preserve.—Pour fresh milk into glass bottles ; set them in a kettle of cold water, placing a board for the bottles to stand on ; put some rags or straw between the bottles, and gradually bring the water to boiling point, then cork and seal tight. Milk may by this means be kept sweet several weeks. MILK, To Test.—If the substance of milk be good a drop placed upon the finger-nail will remain attached to it, with a pearly appearance. If, on the contrary, it be poor, it will run off like water. To testthe rich- ness of milk, procure a long glass phial, cut a slip of paper the exact length of the bottle, and divide it into one hundred equal parts ; paste it upon the phial, fill it to the highest mark with the milk, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. The number of spaces occupied by the cream will supply the exact percentage in the milk. MINCE MEAT.—Chop very finely a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, four pounds and a half of kidney beef suet, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and orange peel, the same of citron, a pound and a half of Malaga raisins, and three pounds and a half of apples ; put them into a pan with four pounds and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of sugar. Mix the whole together with the juice of eight lemons and a pint of brandy. Place in jars and tie down. Will be ready for use in a few days. MINCE PIES.—Roll a piece of puff-paste to "the thickness of a penny piece, then lightly butter a dozen tartlet pans ; cut out twelve pieces from the paste, each the size of the tartlet pans ; lay them upon the slab ; roll the trimming of the paste again to the former thickness ; cut twelve other pieces, with which line the pans ; put a piece of mince meat in each ; wet them round, cover them with the other pieces of paste, prick a hole in the centre, and close them well at the edges ; egg over lightly, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. MINCE PIES (LEMON).—Squeeze all the juice out of a large lemon, boil the outside quite tender, beat it to a mash, and add to it three large apples chopped small, a quarter of a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar ; mix the juice with the fruit ; line the patty pans with a short crust, fill, and bake. MINT, To Propagate.—Mint is readily increased by parting the roots in spring, or by planting cuttings, five or six inches apart, in a moist soil during the summer months, and keeping them well watered till they have taken root. MIRRORS, To Silver.—Spread a sheet of tinfoil on a table, and, with a hare’s foot, rub mercury over it till the two metals incorporate ; place the glass upon it, and lay weights on the top. The tinfoil will in a few hours adhere to the glass. Two ounces of mercury will cover three square feet of glass. MOCK TURTLE SOUP.—Cut a calf's head in two, scrape and clean it well, but allow the skin to remain on ; half boil it with the fattest