6i treacle. Boil together for ten minutes, then pour it into a well greased flat dish. EYE (BLACK).—See Black Eye, Cure for a. EYE, For Lime in the.—To one ounce of warm vinegar add eight ounces of water. Syringe the eye well with it, and then exclude the light. EYELASHES, To Promote the Growth of.—The simple method employed by the ladies in Eastern countries, who are proverbially famed for the length of their eyelashes, is to periodically clip off the ends. Mothers perform this operation on the children while they are very young, repeating it about every six weeks, and the practice never fails of the desired effect. EYES (BLOODSHOT), Lotion for.—Mix twelve grains of sulphate of zinc, one dram of wine of opium, and six ounces of rosewater. Work it well into the eyes by closing and opening them in rapid succession while bathing. EYES (DEAD), The Restoration of.—A Frenchman has lately discovered that a life-like expression may be restored to the eyes of dead persons by placing a few drops of glycerine and water in the corners, the effect of which, he states, is startling. EYES (INFLAMED).— Pour a very small quantity of wine of opium into a small quill or straw, and, holding the eye open with the thumb and finger, insert therein a couple of drops. This will be found effectual for the removal of long-continued inflammation. The juice of houseleek mixed with cream is used most successfully in many rural districts. EYES, Singleton’s Golden Ointment for the.—Mix orpiment with lard to the consistence of an ointment. A very little should be used at once. The best way of using it is just to touch the edge of the eyelash with a feather which has touched the unguent. This is an excellent oint- ment for weak eyes. EYES (SORE), Salve for.—Add to any quantity of lard just sufficient red precipitate powder to impart a deep flesh colour. Will be found of great service when the eyes are gummed and difficult to open. EYES, To Allay Excessive Discharge of the.—Mix one dram of white vitriol with the same quantity of alum, and add thereto one pint of water. When dissolved filter through paper. EYES, To Remove Dust from the.—Dust or small insects may frequently be readily removed from the eye by taking hold of the lashes of the upper lid and drawing it as far out and down as possible over the lower one, which, acting as a kind of brush, will remove any particle lodged within the eye. EYES (WEAK), For.—To seven grains of acetate of lead add seven grains of white vitriol, four ounces of elder-flower water, one dram of laudanum, and one dram of spirits of camphor ; strain, and apply. EYES (WEAK), Lotion for.—Dissolve fifteen grains of white vitriol in eight ounces of camphor water and eight ounces of decoction of poppy- heads. This when applied will allay the pain and cleanse the eyes. EYE WATER, A valuable.—Put into three pints of cold water three spoonfuls of salt and one spoonful of white copperas, and let them boil together lightly. When cold put into bottles. It should not be strained. One or two drops in the eye morning and evening will cure red- ness, rheums, pearls, &c. Should it cause pain, add more water. FABRICS (WASHING), To Remove Spots from.—Spots may be removed from fabrics that will wash by rubbing them with the yolk ol an egg before sending them to the laundry.