7« GLOVE POWDER.—A good glove powder for ordinary use may be made by pounding dried Castile soap in a mortar with pipeclay, ochre, or Irish slate. GLOVES (BUCKSKIN, CHAMOIS - LEATHER, OR DOESKIN), To Clean.—Rub them with a dry powder composed ot fullers' earth and alum ; clear the dust off with a brush, and afterwards powder them with whiting and bran. If the gloves are very dirty wash them in a solution of soap, and afterwards apply a paste made of pipeclay, coloured the required tint with yellow ochre and diluted beer. When dry, dust off the superfluous powder. GLOVES (KID), French Method of Cleaning.—Button the gloves upon the hands, then wash them in spirits of turpentine or benzine until clean. Dry them in a warm place where there is a current of air so as to remove the unpleasant smell of the spirits. GLOVES (KID), To Wash.—Lay the glove on a clean cloth folded into several thicknesses. Now dip a piece of flannel in milk, and after- wards rub on to it a good quantity of brown soap, and rub the glove down- wards towards the fingers. When clean hang them to dry. GLOVES (KID), To Dye.—Put half an ounce of extract of log- wood into a two ounce bottle and fill up with brandy. The colour may be varied from a delicate lilac to nearly black by using less or more logwood. Put the gloves on the hands, sponge them over evenly with the mixture, and rub one over the other until dry. GLOVES (KID), To Preserve.—Put the gloves into a tin box with a lump of ammonia, but do not allow the latter to touch the gloves. This will keep the kid soft, and will often cause spots to disappear from those of violet or grey hue. GLOVES, To Perfume.—Mix two drops of extract of ambergris with half an ounce of spirits of wine. Dip a soft cloih in the mixture and rub it upon the insides of the gloves. GLUE (LIQUID).—Dissolve one ounce of borax in a pint of boiling water, then add two ounces of shellac and boil in a covered vessel until the shellac is dissolved. This forms a cheap and useful cement. Another way of making a liquid glue which does not gelatinise nor undergo fermentation is to dissolve in a wide-mouthed bottle half a pound of best glue in half a pint of water, and then add half an ounce of strong nitric acid. This latter ingredient must be added slowly, and the whole constantly stirred until well mixed. Keep well corked. GLUE (MARINE).—Dissolve three parts of indiarubber in thirty- four parts of coal-tar naphtha, aiding the solution with agitation and heat; add to it sixty-four parts of powdered shellac, and heat it in the mixture till the whole is dissolved. Pour it, while hot, upon metal plates, making each sheet about one-eighth of an inch thick. When required for use heat it in a pot till soft and apply with a brush. Wood joined with this glue can scarcely be separated. GLUE (MOUTH).—Dissolve some fine glue or gelatine in water, add half its weight of brown sugar ; boil till it is sufficiently thick to become solid on cooling, pour it on to a slightly-greased slab, and when cold cut it into convenient sized pieces. GLUE (PARCHMENT).—Dissolve an ounce of borax in a gallon of water ; add a little gum-arabic and a pound of parchment cuttings ; simmer to the required thickness, then strain the liquid for use. GLUE, To Strengthen.—Glue may be greatly strengthened by mix- ing with it a little powdered chalk. GLUE, To Test.—The quality of glue cannot be estimated either by its colour or by the price paid for it. The simplest test is to apply the