47 it for twenty minutes. Keep the fish in the liquor till required for table, as this improves the flavour. It is usual before putting them in to boil, to turn'each claw round to stick in the fan of the tail, so that it presents the appearance of a frog. Dish up on parsley. ... . CRAYON DRAWINGS, To Fix. —As crayons will not bear washing with the brush, the only method to fix the drawing is the previous preparation of the paper by washing it with a strong solution of isinglass. When the paper is quite dry proceed with the picture, and when it is finished hold it face downwards over a basin of boiling water. As the steam melts the size the crayon or charcoal becomes absorbed, and when it has again become dry the drawing is fixed. By repeating the process several times during the progress of the picture the effect is increased each ^CRAYONS, To Make.—To six parts of finely-powdered chalk, add three parts of shellac, two parts of spirits of wine, one part of tur- pentine, and six parts of any colouring matter. Mix, form into sticks, and dry. CREAM (ALMOND).—Beat together, to prevent oiling, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and a few bitter ones, put them into a quart of boiling cream, sweeten with sugar, add the juice of two lemons, and a dozen eggs. Beat to a froth, and put the cream into a dish, with the froth on the top. . CREAM (APRICOT).—Take a few ripe apricots, remove the peel and stones, and pound the fruit in a mortar with a little sugar, then rub it through a tammy, pressing upon the fruit with a wooden spoon ; add a little melted isinglass, and some well-beaten thick cream. If not sweet enough already, add more sugar, and beat it over ice till the isinglass is well blended with the mixture. Put the whole into a mould and heap up all round it a quantity of ice and salt. Do not turn the cream out of the mould until it is required for table. CREAM AU THE.—Boil together half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk, sweeten with sugar, and put in a pinch of salt. Directly the cream boils throw in two spoonfuls of good tea, let it boil slowly for a few minutes, add the yolks of eight eggs, stir till the cream becomes thick, then put in some isinglass, previously melted, and pour the whole into a mould. CREAM (BOSTON).—See Boston Cream. CREAM (CHEESE), Plain.—Warm a pint and a half of milk and half a pint of cream, then add a little rennet, cover over, and stand it in a warm place till it is curdled ; pour it into a colander, and let it drain for an hour. Serve with plain cream and sugar over it. CREAM CHEESE, To Make.—Suspend the cream in a wet cloth for six or seven days in a cool place ; then put it into a mould lined with a cloth ; put on the press with a light weight; turn it twice a day, and it will be fit for use in a short time. CREAM (CHOCOLATE).—Rasp finely some chocolate, throw it into a basin, and pour boiling water upon it. When dissolved, mix it with boiled cream, and proceed in the manner directed for Coffee Cream. CREAM (COFFEE).—Boil together a pint of milk and a pint of cream, sweeten with sugar, and add a little salt. Roast the coffee, throw it into the cream, cover the stew-pan, and let it infuse till it gets cold. Then beat up fifteen eggs, add them to the cream, make hot, and run the whole through a sieve into a mould. CREAM (EGG AND WATER).—Boil in a pint of water two ounces of sugar, a little cinnamon and coriander, and the peel of a lemon. Let them infuse well, then beat into them the yolks of eight eggs ; rub