i99 taken up every two or three years for division of the off-sets. The American species, bearing a yellow flower, has a tendency to run to off-sets instead of to flower. This is best obviated by planting in light peat soil, such as is used for rhododendrons. It requires the same culture as the pink species. VIOLETS, To Cultivate. — Continual crops of these hibernal flowers may be obtained by planting them in frames on soil composed of calcareous earth, leaf-mould and alluvial loam. They are plentifully in- creased by runners and root-division. VITRIOL, Burns from.—See Burns from Vitriol or other Acids. VOICE, To Improve the.—A hoarse, husky voice maybe greatly improved by taking twice a day five or six drops of nitric acid in a glassful of sugared water. If from constant use the acid loses its efficacy, increase the dose to ten drops. VOICE (WEAK), To Strengthen a.—To eight ounces of water add one dram ot tincture of cayenne. Gargle the throat frequently, especially before speaking or singing. The following is also good:—Beeswax, two drams; copaiba balsam, three drams ; powdered liquorice root, four drams. Melt the balsam with the wax in an earthen pipkin, remove it from the fire and mix in the powder. Make pills of three grains each. Two of the pills to be taken occasionally, three or four times a day. VOLATILE LINIMENT, for Painful Swellings.—Olive oil, one ounce and a half; spirits of hartshorn, one ounce ; cayenne pepper, two drams ; laudanum, two drams ; brandy, two tablespoonfuls; and salt, one tablespoonful. Shake well together ; rub it into the affected part, and afterwards dip a rag in it and apply. VOLATILE SOAP, for Removing Paint, Grease, &c.—Spirits of hartshorn, four tablespoonfuls ; alcohol, four tablespoonfuls; salt, one tablespoonful. Shake the whole well together in a bottle and apply with a sponge or a brush. VULCANITE, To Restore.—To a teacupful of sweet oil add two tablespoonfuls of black ink. Let the vulcanite steep in the mixture for a week, stirring the liquid every day ; then remove it and rub it well with the palm of the hand till a good polish is obtained. WAFERS.—Take flour, white of eggs, isinglass, and a little yeast ; beat them well together ; make the batter thin with gum-water, spread it on iron plates, and dry in an oven, then cut them out. They may be coloured by adding brazil or vermilion for red, indigo for blue, or saffron or gamboge for yellow. WALL-PAPERS, To Remove Grease from.—Mix a little pipe- clay with sufficient water to reduce it to the consistence of cream, spread it over the spot and allow it to remain on for twenty-four hours, then remove it with a knife, and carefully brush and dust the paper-hangings. WALNUTS (PICKLED).—The best timeintheyear for pickling walnuts is the first week in July. If left beyond the middle of that month they are liable to become too hard and woody. First steep them in brine for a week, then boil them very gently in a kettle of brine ; strain, and set in an airy position for a day or two, until they turn black, and afterwards add vinegar, in each quart of which has been steeped one ounce each of shallots, ginger, black pepper, mustard-seed, and salt. WARTS AND CORNS, Cure for.—Burn the bark of the willow- tree to ashes and apply to the part. It will remove excrescences from any part of the human frame. The easiest way, however, of getting rid of warts is to pare off the