139 OCHRE (RED), To Produce.—Calcine yellow ochre till it be- comes perfectly red, or nearly brown. It then becomes a good standing colour, and is much esteemed by painters. OIL (CAMPHORATED), To Make.—Pour into a mortar four ounces of Florence oil and a quarter of a pound of camphor. Beat together till the camphor is dissolved. Used as an outward application for sprains and rheumatic pains. OIL CLOTH, To Preserve.—Oil cloths may be kept like new for years by washing them over once a month with equal parts of skim milk and water ; rub them well once in three months with a small quantity of linseed oil, and polish with an old silk cloth. OIL PAINTINGS, To Clean.—To remove smoke or dirt from oil paintings dissolve a small quantity of salt in stale urine, dip a woollen cloth in the mixture, and rub the pictures with it till they are clean ; then rinse them with a sponge and Clearwater ; dry them gradually and rub them with a clean cloth. If the paintings are very dirty a little soft soap may be added to the above preparation ; but in any case care must be taken not to rub too hard. OIL PAINTINGS, To Restore.—When the painting has been varnished over with a view to its preservation, and the varnish has become discoloured, it is necessary in the first place to dissolve the varnish in order to remove it. This may be done by melting one ounce of soft soap in a quarter of a pint of water, brushing it over the picture, and allowing it to remain on for about half an hour. As soon as the varnish is dissolved remove it with a sponge and warm water. Great care must, however, be exercised in the manipulation, as the soap acts on the colours as well as on the varnish. When the picture is free from its artificial covering the pristine beauty of the colours may be restored by a coating of oxydised oil of tur- pentine. This may be made by putting the turpentine in a shallow vessel and exposing it to the full rays of the sun for two months, frequently agitating it during that period. OIL POLISH for Dining Tables.—Wash the table with turpentine, so as to eradicate any stains of grease that may be on it, and clean this off with linen rags. Dip a soft cloth in cold-drawn linseed oil, and apply it to every part of the surface ; let the oil remain on for about twelve hours ; then rub it well with a woollen cloth. As soon as it appears perfectly dry, apply linen rubbers to remove any moisture that may remain behind. In three or four days repeat the application of oil as before, and when this operation has been performed three or four times, sponge the top all over with lukewarm water ; wipe it quickly and dry with a soft cloth. The lustre may not come out as quickly as expected, but by perseverance a brilliant and lasting polish will be obtained, which will bid defiance to stains from hot dishes, fruits, or boiling water. This polish is not suitable for rosewood as it would render it too dark. OIL STAINS, To Remove.—Oil stains may be removed from dress materials of any kind, without injury to the colour, by means of pipe- clay, powdered and mixed with water to the consistence of cream. Let it remain on for four or five hours, then remove it and give the part a good brushing. They may be taken out of silk or satin by moistening both sides with benzine, or magnesia, and keeping it damp for a couple of hours, and, when dry, brushing it off. OLEANDERS, The General Treatment of.—The oleander must be treated as a greenhouse shrub. As it has a great tendency to bleed, the plant will not bear cutting, either for pruning or slipping purposes. It requires at all times a plentiful supply of water. Propagate by root-suckers, or by slips pulled off from the stem, and struck in a bottle of water, or in a light soil kept constantly wet.