ij8 been taken off, wash the shell in a little water in which a small portion of gum-arabic has been dissolved, or coat it with white of egg. SHERBET (LEMON).—Take the rinds of three or four lemons and rub them on to loaf sugar until all the yellow part is absorbed, then pour on to the sugar a quart of boiling water, and when the liquor is cold add the juice of the lemons. SHERBET, To Manufacture.—Ground white sugar, half a pound ; tartaric acid, a quarter of a pound ; carbonate of soda, a quarter of a pound ; essence of lemon, forty drops. Dry the powders ; add the essence to the sugar, then the other powders ; stir all together and pass through a hair sieve. Keep in tightly-corked bottles. In making the above the sugar must be ground ; if merely powdered the coarser parts remain un- dissolved. SHRIMPS (POTTED).—Pick some newly-boiled shrimps from their shells, season them well with pepper, mace, and salt, pack them closely in a pot, set them in a slow oven for ten minutes, and when cold pour over them some clarified butter. SILK (BLACK), To Renovate.—Put half a dozen drops of liquid ammonia in a saucerful of water ; sponge the silk, and iron upon the wrong side. If lump ammonia be used take a piece the size of a Spanish nut to each saucerful of water. SILK (BLACK), To Revive.—Put into two quarts of water a large handful of ivy or fig leaves. Boil down to a pint, squeeze the leaves, and bottle off the liquid for use. Apply with a sponge. SILKS AND SATINS, To Clean.—Mix together a quarter of a pound of soft soap, a quarter of a pound of honey, the white of an egg, and a glassful of gin. Brush the article thoroughly with the mixture, using a rather hard brush, rinse in cold water, let it drain, and iron upon the wrong side while still damp. SILKS (DELICATE), To Clean.—Delicate coloured silks may be cleaned without injury to the colour or fabric by using the pulp of a few potatoes, finely scraped, with water. SILK. To Dye it Blue.—Wash the silk perfectly clean, then boil together in a gallon of water, two pounds of woad, one pound of indigo, and three ounces of alum ; immerse the silk therein until it assumes the depth of colour desired ; rinse, dry, and iron it on the wrong side. SILK. To Dye it Carnation.—Boil half a gallon of wheat and a quarter of an ounce of alum in a gallon of water ; strain through a fine sieve. Then dissolve two ounces more of alum and white tartar ; add it to the other liquor, with three-quarters of a pound of madder, and while it is still at a moderate heat put in the silk. SILK. To Dye it Crimson.—Put a little cudbear into a pan, pour boiling water upon it; stir, and let it stand a few minutes, then put in the silk until it has become of the depth of colour desired. The addition of a little archil will produce a deeper dye. Dry the silk in the shade, and press it on the wrong side. SILK. To Dye it Madder Red.—To a gallon of water add one ounce of pearlash ; boil the silk therein ; rinse it in clear water, and after it has dried, steep it in a decoction of bruised nutgalls ; dry it again and steep it in a bath of alum water ; dry, and boil in a decoction of madder— three-quarters of a pound of the root to every pound of the article—then wash it in soap and water, dry, and press it smooth. SILK. To Dye it Yellow. —To five pounds of wheat bran liquor add a quarter of a pound of alum, and when it has dissolved put in the silk and boil it for two hours ; then add three ounces of weld, or dyer’s