41 CLOTH, To Draw Patterns on.- This is best accomplished by mixing blue-stone and a little sugar with water, and drawing the pattern with a quill pen. CLOTH, To Raise the Nap on.—Soak the damaged part in cold water for half an hour, then lay it on a board and rub it until the nap is raised with a half-worn hatter's card filled with flocks. Hang the cloth up, and when nearly dry lightly brush the nap the right way. CLOTH, To Take Grease out of.—Dip a piece of felt in turpentine and rub the cloth gently until the grease is removed ; brush well, and hang in the air to take away the smell. COBCEA SCANDENS.—This climber, which bears large, dull, purple flowers, is useful as a covering to walls or trellis-work, on account of its rampant growth. It may be made to survive our winter if the roots are well protected, but it is safer to raise fresh plants every year from layers or cuttings, which should be kept in pots till the spring, when they may be planted in a warm aspect, in good hazel loam. COCHINEAL, To Improve the Colour of.—A little nitrate of tin added to a solution of cochineal will change its colour from a dull crimson to a bright scarlet. COCK-A-LEEKIE.—Put a knuckle of veal, or some scrag of mutton, into a stew-pan with a fowl and six leeks sliced about two inches long ; add three quarts of good beef stock and a little pepper and salt, and stew gently for an hour and a half. Serve the fowl on a separate dish. COCK-CROWING, To Prevent.—If a small lath be loosely suspended about a foot and a half above the perch of the bird, so that it wall come gently in contact with his comb when he stretches his neck to crow, it will effectually stop the noise. COCOA NIBS.—To a quarter of a pound of cocoa nibs add half a gallon of cold water ; boil it steadily for five hours, allow it to cool, remove the whole of the fat, boil it up again, and let it simmer till reduced to a quart. COCO AN UT BISCUITS.—Grated cocoanut, six ounces ; caster sugar, nine ounces ; eggs, three. Whisk the eggs, then add the cocoanut and sugar, so as to form a paste ; shape into small cones, place them on tins covered with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven to a light colour. COCOANUT CAKES.—Whisk three eggs until they are very light, add gradually ten ounces of sifted sugar, and stir in six ounces of grated cocoanut. Roll a tablespoonful of the paste into the form of a pyramid, and so continue until it is all used up. Place the pyramids upon paper, put the paper on tins and bake in a rather cool oven till they are just coloured a light brown. COCOANUT CANDY, SUPERIOR.—Rasp half a pound of cocoanut, spread it on a dish, and let it stand for two or three days to get dry. Then beat the fourth part of the white of an egg in three-quarters of a pint of water and pour it on to two pounds of loaf sugar. When it has stood a little time, place it over a very clear fire and let it boil for a few minutes, then set it on one side till the scum has subsided ; clear it off, and boil the sugar till it is very thick and white ; strew in the nut, and stir continually until it is finished. Take care not to have the pan too close to the fire, as the nut is liable to burn. COD (BAKED).—Cut the fish into slices about half an inch thick, dip into flour, then into beaten egg mixed with milk—a tablespoonful to each egg—and lastly into bread-crumbs with a seasoning of mixed herbs, ot the kind used for veal stuffing. Baste with butter melted in the 7