95 HORSES, Strains and Wounds.—Goulard’s extract, one ounce ; spirits of turpentine, one ounce; spirits of wine, one ounce ; strong vinegar, one pint. Mix, and rub gently on to the part affected. HORSES, Surfeit or Diseased Skin.—Mix together half a pound of sulphur, half a pound of saltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of black antimony. A large tablespoonful to be given in their corn night and morning. HORSES, To Assist their Digestion.—Horses are fond of salt, and it is a good practice to sprinkle the hay with water in which salt has been dissolved. Or, suspend a lump of rock-salt above the manger, where he can lick it at pleasure. It materially assists the process of digestion. HORSES, To Keep Flies from.—The Jourtuil of Chemistry gives the following remedy :—Take two or three small handfuls of walnut leaves, upon which pour two or three quarts of cold water ; let them infuse one night, and pour the whole next morning into a kettle, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour. When cold the mixture is fit for use. Eefore the horse goes out of the stable, moisten a sponge and let those parts which are most irritable be smeared over with the liquor, namely, between and upon the ears, the neck, the flanks, &c. While the horse derives benefit from this decoction, the driver will receive pleasure from its fragrance. A decoction of the leaves and young shoots of the elder (especially of the dwarf species) will also be found very effectual. HORSE TAMING.—Get a shillingsworth of each of the follow- ing :—Oils of laudanum, rhodium, dragon, scate, marjoram, cedar, and kipney, and mix them together before shoeing. Wet a rag with the mixture and tie it round the bit. It will cause the horse to doze, and be quite manageable. In extreme cases a small thimbleful poured into the ear will produce at once the desired effect. This will quiet any colt, however vicious he may be, and is quite harmless. HOTCH-POTCH.—Boil a pint of peas in a quart of water till they are tender, then pulp them through a sieve. Put about three pounds of lean mutton chops into a gallon of water, three or four carrots and turnips, an onion, pepper, and salt; stew till the vegetables are tender, then put in the pulped peas and a few sticks of celery ; boil another quarter of an hour and serve. HOUSES, Best Time to Paint.—Paint on surfaces exposed to the sun will be much more durable if applied in autumn or spring than if put on during hot weather. In cool weather it dries slowly, forms a hard, glossy coat, tough like glass ; while, if applied in warm weather, the oil soaks into the wood, leaving the paint so dry that it is rapidly beaten off by rains. HUNTER PUDDING.—Mix in a basin three-quarters of a pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Chop finely a quarter of a pound of suet, and stone half a pound of raisins (currants or sultanas may be substituted). Add the suet and fruit, with two ounces of brown sugar, to the flour ; mix well, and make it into a light, firm paste with a gill and a half of water. Dip the middle of a pudding cloth in boiling water, flour it, and tie the pudding tightly in it, leaving room for swelling. Put into boiling water, and boil quickly for an hour and a half. HYACINTPIS.—Prepare a compost of equal proportions of light loam, leaf mould, river sand, and weil-rotted dung. Bury the bulb two- thirds deep in the soil, leaving the upper portion exposed to view. After planting, give a plentiful supply of water, stand them in the dark till the central bud has attained the height of half an inch, then expose them to light and warmth. When the flowering is over do not disturb the bulbs