34 add powdered gum mastic ; macerate for seven days, when it will be ready for use. CEMENT (TO URN AY); or, Cedree de Tournay.—Take coal- ashes, blue argillo-ferruginous lime, and sand, and beat them up with water ; let them dry, levigate repeatedly, moisten and beat up. See also Dutch Terras and Indian Chunam. CEMENT (TUNISIAN), for Outer Walls.—Lime, three parts; wood-ashes, two parts ; coarse sand, one part. Mix alternately with oil and water until a paste of the desired consistence is formed. CERATE (WHITE).—Melt-together a gill of olive oil and a quarter of a pound of white wax ; stir till cold. Used as a soft dressing for cuts, blisters, &c. CHALK DRAWINGS, To Fix.—Make a weak solution of isinglass, dip the drawing in, taking care that every part is covered with the solution, then pin it up to dry. CHAMPAGNE CUP.—Take one quart bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda or Seltzer water, and add powdered sugar to taste, one wineglass of Curafoa, plenty of clear ice, and a sprig of green borage, or if borage is not obtainable a little cucumber rind will be found to be an excellent substitute, or a few slices of fruit such as pineapple, melon, nec- tarines, or peaches may be used instead. Mix the ingredients well together. CHAMPAGNE (ENGLISH).—To nine gallons of cider add a pint and a half of proof spirit and two pounds and a half of sugar. Stir together, and let it rest for a fortnight, then fine it with half a pint of new milk, and two weeks afterwards put it into bottles, leaving them uncorked for twenty-four hours. Store in a cool cellar. CHAPS, To Prevent.—Melt together three drams of spermaceti, four drams of white wax, one ounce of almond oil, and then stir into the mixture three drams of powdered camphor (previously moistened with spirits of wine). Make into cakes or balls as it cools, and rub on the hands after each ablution. CHEESECAKES, Cheap.—Rub six ounces of boiled potatoes through a sieve ; add a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of white sugar, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, a quarter of a pound of currants, and twenty drops of essence of lemon. Line the tins with light paste, fill them, and bake for twenty minutes. CHEESECAKES (CURD).—Beat together half a pint of curds, four eggs, half a pint of cream, half a nutmeg, and a spoonful of ratafia flavouring ; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants. Line some patty-pans with a light paste, put the above mixture in the centre, and bake. CHEESECAKES (LEMON).—Rub a pound of loaf sugar upon the rind of two large fresh lemons until all the yellow part is taken off. Crush it to powder, and mix with it the strained juice of the lemons, the yolks of six and the whites of four well-beaten eggs, three sponge biscuits, finely grated, and four ounces of fresh butter. Put all together in a saucepan over the fire, and stir in one direction till the mixture is as thick as honey. It may be used at once for the pastry, or, if preferred, may be put into a jar and covered closely for future occasions. If kept in a cool, dry place the mixture will remain good for a couple of years. Time, half an hour to prepare. CHEESECAKES (ORANGE).—Boil the peel of two large oranges in two or three waters, and beat it up with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, a little curd, the yolks of six fine eggs, and half a pound of butter. When the whole are well mixed, cover the patty-pans with puff paste, half fill them with the mixture and bake.