ONIONS, To Peel.—Onions may be peeled without causing un- easiness to the eyes of the peeler, by immersing them in warm water during the process ; and no smell will be left afterwards upon the hands. Or if peeled before a fire, the spirit of the onion will not get to the eyes. ONIONS, To Pickle.—Take two quarts of small silver-skinned onions and pour upon them some boiling hot strong salt and water, let them remain in the brine for a couple of days, then drain them dry. Pour into a saucepan sufficient white wine vinegar to well cover the pickles, and to each quart add one ounce of sliced horse-radish, one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of mustard seed, and half an ounce of salt ; boil together for half an hour, and pour upon the onions ; the vinegar should be at least two inches above the vegetables. The pickle is mostly added cold, but some persons prefer to use it boiling hot. ONIONS, To Preserve.—Let the onions be well dried in the open air, then make a poker red hot and singe the roots to prevent prema- ture growth ; tie them on to straw bands, and hang them in a dry, cool room. ONIONS, To Remove the Smell of.—A cup of black coffee will remove the odour of onions from the breath. Parsley eaten with vinegar will likewise remove the unpleasant smell ; so also will four or five drops of the concentrated solution of chloride of soda, taken in a wineglassful of cold water. OPIATE INJECTION. —Mix eight ounces of assafoetida with one dram of tincture of opium, and insert with a syringe. This will relieve pain attended with disorders of the anus. OPIUM LOTION, for Painful Ulcers, &c.—Pour half a pint of boiling water on to two drams of bruised opium, and let it stand till it is cold. OPIUM, To Counteract the Evil Effects of.—Give some strong vinegar or lemon juice ; or a teaspoonful of sal volatile in a small cup of black coffee every half hour. All means must be resorted to to keep the patient awake for twelve hours after the poison is taken, for should he slumber it would probably end in death. OPODELDOC, for Sprains, &c.—Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in half a pint of spirits of wine ; then melt together two ounces of curd soap and two ounces of oil of rosemary. Mix. ORANGEADE.—Cut some oranges in halves, squeeze out the juice, and pour boiling water on half the peel, covering it close. Make a thick syrup by boiling sugar in water, skim it, and mix it with the juice and the infusion of peel, adding as much water as will make a rich sherbet. Strain through a jelly-bag. ORANGE BITTERS.—Take half an ounce of the yolk of eggs, half an ounce of gentian root, a dram and a half of Seville orange peel, and a pint of boiling water. Pour the water upon the other ingredients, let them steep for two hours, then strain, and bottle for use. ORANGE BRANDY.—Steep the peels of four or five oranges in a pint of pale brandy in a close vessel for two days. Boil six ounces of sugar in a pint and a half of water till it is reduced to half the quantity, let it cool, pour it into the brandy, and after it has stood for a fortnight put it into a decanter. ORANGE CHIPS.—Pare some oranges, soak the peel in salted water for twelve hours, then boil it in the liquor till tender ; drain, and cut it in slices. Squeeze the juice of the fruit through a sieve, and put it with the peel into a dish with its weight in sugar ; simmer till the chips candy, stirring at frequent intervals ; and set them in a cool room for three or four weeks, or till they are thoroughly dry.