62 FACE-ACHE.—Apply hot bran or bread poultices to the cheek. Or rub the face with camphorated oil, and cover the part with a piece of hot flannel. A little warm laudanum dropped into the ear on the side which is affected often gives relief. If the pain proceeds from the jaw put a few drops of tincture of cayenne on cotton lint and place it between the cheek and teeth. FAINTING FITS, Stimulant for.—Put some acetate of potash into a bottle, pour a little sulphuric acid upon it, and apply to the nostrils. Or if these remedies be not at hand, a little spirits of hartshorn will answer the purpose. A few drops of the latter may also be given in a little warm brandy and water. Give as much air as possible and undo anything tight that may be round the throat. FAIRY RINGS, To Eradicate.—Fairy rings maybe removed from lawns, &c., by covering them over thickly with salt. The grass will after- wards appear dead for a while, but it will gradually revive. FARCES.—See Forcemeats; Game, Farcing for; and Veal Stuffing. FAWN, Saddle of.—This is only sent up when bulky dishes are wanted to cover an extraordinarily large table. Take the saddle and the two legs of the fawn, lard the fillets and both legs, and put them into a large vessel with vinegar, sliced onions, parsley, spices, pepper and salt; turn the meat frequently in the pickle for two or three days, then roast it, and send to table with gravy under it, accompanied with mint sauce. FEATHERS (BLACK), To Re-dip and Curl.—Wash the feathers in soap and water, using the best curd soap and very hot water ; rinse them thoroughly in clear water, and dry them. Then make a solution of one ounce of sulphate of iron in a quart of scalding water, place the feathers therein and let them remain until the liquor is cold, when they may be removed and placed in the shade to dry. Next boil half an ounce of logwood and half an ounce of gall nuts in a copper vessel containing a quart of water. While the liquor is scalding hot immerse the feathers in it, and let them remain till it is cold ; then rinse them in clear cold water and shake them dry. Lastly rub over them the smallest quantity of neats’ foot oil, so as to bring out a glistening appearance, and proceed to the curling. This is accomplished by drawing the down between the thumb and a blunt penknife. Simple as this operation seems, it requires great care and delicacy of touch to ensure the curls falling in a uniform manner. FEATHERS, General Directions for Dyeing.—Immerse the feathers for a few moments in hot water, let them drain, then put them into the dye ; afterwards rinse them in two or three baths of cold water, and shake them dry ; finally, draw them between the thumb and the back of a knife so as to raise the down and restore their natural curl. FEATHERS (BLUE), To Dye.—Put powdered indigo into oil Df vitriol; let it stand for a couple of days, then shake it well and put about a tablespoonful of the liquid into a quart of boiling water. Stir it well, immerse the feathers therein, and let them simmer for five or ten minutes. FEATHERS (CRIMSON), To Dye.—Immerse in an acetate of alumina mordant, then in a boiling-hot decoction of Brazil-wood, and afterwards pass it through a bath of cudbear. FEATHERS (GREEN), To Dye.—Mix powdered indigo with oil of vitriol; let it stand for a day or two, then add enough turmeric to produce the colour desired ; pour to the mixture some boiling water, and simmer the feathers in the dye. FEATHERS (LILAC), To Dye.—Put into a quart of boiling water a dessert-spoonful of cudbear ; let it simmer for a few minutes, then put in the feathers.