208 cither in a mortar or by other convenient means ; put the pulp into a tub, and to every five pounds of the stalks add one gallon of cold spring water ; let it infuse for three days, stirring it three or four times each day ; then press the pulp and strain off the liquor. Put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon add three pounds of crushed white sugar, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Let it rest for five or six days, and when the crust or head which forms begins to crack, skim it off, or draw the liquor from it. Put the wine into a cask, but do not stop it down. If it should begin to ferment rack it into another cask, and a fortnight afterwards stop down the cask, and let it remain till the beginning of the following March, then rack it and again stop down the cask. If from slight fermentation the wine has lost any of its sweetness, add enough loaf sugar to restore it, and stop down, taking care that the cask is full. By the middle of May it will be fit to bottle. It will improve by keeping another year in bottle. A second lot may be got from the plants about the latter end of August. WINE, To Remove Flatness from.—To each hogshead of wine add three pounds of honey, or bruised sultana raisins, and four quarts of good brandy. Let it stand for a fortnight, when it will be ready for use, unless the weather be very cold. If a tablespoonful or so of yeast be added to the wine, and the cask removed to a warmer situation, it will become palatable in a shorter period. The addition of a little new brisk wine of the same kind will also restore it to its proper flavour. WINES (HOME-MADE), To Fortify.—Home-made wines are usually fortified by means of French brandy of the best quality, but in the case of cowslip or other delicately-flavoured sorts, rectified spirits of wine (56 over proof) would be found more suitable, as it does not interfere with the flavour of the wine ; it must not, however, be added till fermentation has entirely ceased. An ounce and a half to each bottle, or one gallon to eighteen gallons of wine, is the quantity generally used. WINE (TURNIP).—Pare and slice some turnips, press out the juice, and to every gallon so obtained add three pounds of loaf sugar and half a pint of brandy. Pour it into a cask, and when it has done working bung it close ; let it stand for three months, then draw it off into another cask, and when it is fine, bottle, and cork well. WITLOWS, To Cure.—Add to common pipeclay sufficient water to form a paste ; put it into a linen rag and apply it as a poultice, renewing it frequently. WOOD, Black Stains for.—Make a decoction of galls, logwood, sulphate of iron, iron filings, and vinegar, and put the wood therein till it has acquired the desired depth of colour. '-a Drop black mixed with French polish gives a deep ebony black stain. WOOD, Blue Stain for.—Boil in a gallon of water two pounds of woad, one pound of indigo, and three ounces of alum. Brush well over until the wood is thoroughly stained. Or steep the wood in a slightly diluted solution of indigo in sulphuric acid. WOOD, Brown Stain for.—If slacked quicklime be laid upoc common deal it will produce a more or less deep hue, according to tha length of time it is allowed to remain on. The wood may then be made to imitate mahogany by rubbing it with linseed oil in which alkanet has been boiled, and afterwards varnishing it. WOOD, Green Stain for.—Immerse it in a decoction of verdigris, sal ammoniac, and vinegar. WOOD, Mahogany Stain for.—Boil half a pint of madder and a quarter of a pound of fustic in a gallon of water ; brush over the wood while boiling hot, until the desired depth of colour is obtained.