8i dried the fruit, three-parts fill the dish with it and fill up with sugar ; put on the crust, and bake for three-quarters of an hour or more, according to SjZe. GOOSEBERRY PRESERVE.—Take ten pounds of rough, red gooseberries and prick each berry with a needle ; put them in a pre- serving pan with eight pounds of loaf sugar, boil for three-quarters of an hour, skim well from time to time, and when done put into jars and tie down. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (BAKED).—Scald a pint of green gooseberries till they are soft, but not broken ; drain, and rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; add half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, three Naples biscuits, and six well-beaten eggs ; mix the ingredients together, pour into an earthen dish, and bake for half an hour. This pudding is sometimes covered with a crust, but not generally. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (BOILED).—Make a plain paste by mixing with water half a pound of finely-chopped suet, one pound of flour, and a little salt. Line a buttered basin with the paste, fill it with gooseberries, add half a pound of sugar, cover with the paste, tie in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Serve with cream. GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE.—Make a high whip of cream, the whites of two eggs well beaten, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, and let it stand till the following day. Scald and press through a sieve as many gooseberries as will make a thick layer at the bottom of the dish ; then beat the yolks of two eggs into a pint of milk, sweeten with sugar, and scald it over the fire, stirring all the time till it nearly, but not quite, boils. When cool lay it over the fruit, and cover with the whip previously made. GOOSE (GREEN), To Roast a.—Well pepper and salt the inside, but do not insert any stuffing ; put it before a good brisk fire, and roast it for three-quarters of an hour. Send to table with a rich brown gravy and apple, gooseberry, or sorrel sauce. GOOSE (MOCK).—Parboil a leg of pork, then remove the skin and roast the meat before a good fire, basting it frequently with butter. When nearly done, sprinkle it with a mixture of bread crumbs, dried sage in fine powder, pepper and salt, and a finely-shred onion. Garnish with balls of fried goose stuffing, and serve with good gravy. GOOSE (ROAST).—Boil a couple of onions quickly for ten minutes, then chop them up with a handful of sage, mix with three or four cupfuls of bread crumbs, and season with salt and pepper ; bind the whole with the yolk of an egg, and put it inside the bird ; truss, and secure the neck and rump so that the seasoning does not fall out; skewer a piece of greased white paper over the breast, and hang the goose at a distance from the fire, drawing it nearer by degrees and keeping it constantly basted. When the breast is rising remove the paper so that it may become nicely browned, and serve before the breast falls. Send to table with brown gravy and apple sauce. A goose takes from an hour and a half to an hour and three-quarters to roast. GOOSE SAUCE.—Make hot a cupful of port wine or claret, and add a spoonful of made mustard, a little salt, and cayenne pepper. Pour the sauce into the bird just before sending it to table." This sauce is also used for ducks, poultry, and roast pork. GOOSE-SKIN.—Horripilatio, or goose-skin, arises from cold, and may be prevented by rubbing the body with olive oil and repeating it at intervals of eight or nine days. By adopting this method, in a short time one becomes almost insensible to the feeling of cold. GOOSE, To Carve a—First cut down to the breast-bone, and help out as many slices as can be obtained, taking a little stuffing out of the 12