17I SALLY LUNN CAKES.—To one pint of hot milk add a quarter of a pint of thick small-beer yeast; put the mixture into a pan with sufficient flour to make it as thick as batter ; cover it over and let it stand for a couple of hours ; add two ounces of loaf sugar dissolved in a quarter of a pint of warm milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into the flour ; mix the dough, not quite so stiff as for bread ; let it stand half an hour, make into cakes, and bake in a quick oven. SALMON (BOILED).—Scale, empty, and wash the fish, remov- ing all the blood from the inside, and truss it in the shape of the letter S. Then fill the fish-kettle with water, and directly it boils add for each gallon of water four ounces of salt; boil the salt rapidly for two minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; put in the salmon and let it boil gently till it is thoroughly done ; drain it on the fish-plate, put it on a hot folded fish napkin, garnish with slices of lemon and cucumber, and serve with shrimp or lobster sauce. SALMON (POTTED).—Scale and wipe a large piece, but do not wash it ; drain the salt from it. Season with mace, cloves, and white pepper ; put the fish into a pan with a few bay leaves, cover with butter, and bake. When thoroughly done, let it drain, pot it, and when cold cover with clarified butter. This will be found an excellent dish for break- fast or any other meal. SALMON, To Carve.—Salmon is seldom sent to the table whole, but where this is done it should be remembered that the choice part lies near the head. When a piece from the middle is placed upon the table, insert the knife above the bone, and make an incision along the whole piece, then make a similar cut along the thin end, and serve to each person a slice, about six inches in length and half an inch thick, from the solid, or lean portion, and a slice of less proportions from the soft, or fat parts. SALMON, To Choose.—Salmon from the Thames is most esteemed, that from the Severn being next in delicacy. The fineness of its flavour depends upon its being fresh. The gills and flesh should be of a fine red, the head small, and the neck thick and very firm. SALSIFY.—This is grown for its long carrot-shaped white root, which is boiled ; also for the young shoots of year-old plants, to dress like asparagus. It is raised from seed in March, April, and May for first and successional crops, sown either in drills or broadcast, and the plants thinned out six inches asunder. The roots will be ready for drawing from July, and will remain good till the following spring. SALTS OF LEMON, To Make.—Mix together equal parts of finely powdered citric acid and cream of tartar. SALTS (PRESTON).—Pound up two ounces of sal ammoniac, and mix them with two ounces of salts of tartar, a few drops of lavender, a little musk, and a few drops of spirits of hartshorn. Keep in a stoppered bottle. The above forms strong and inexpensive smelling salts. SALVE, A Good Family.—Rosin, one pound ; mutton tallow, a quarter of a pound; beeswax, an ounce and a half; refined lard, a quarter of a pound. Melt together ; pour it into cold water and let it stand for two hours, then make it into sticks. SALVE, for General Purposes.—Dissolve in two ounces of rose* water two drams of borax, and add one ounce of glycerine, and two drams of tincture of opium. Now melt two drams of spermaceti in two drams of sweet oil, and add two ounces of refined lard. Add this latter mixture gradually to the first, stirring all the time and until nearly cold, then put with it a few drops of eau de Cologne or essence of rosemary. SAP-BLUE, To Prepare.—Reduce a quarter of an ounce of Indigo to powder, and grind it very fine in a glass mortar with two ounces