28 butter, the juice of a lemon, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, bay leaves, cloves, mace, allspice, salt and pepper, and suffi- cient water to cover the calf’s head, and boil for one hour. Meanwhile, remove the bones of the lower jaw and the nose, cutting off as close to the eyes as possible. Wash the head in cold water, scald it with boiling water, and let it cool. Fold it in a clean cloth, and boil it in the liquor for about three hours. When done, drain ; cut out the tongue, flay it, then replace it. Serve hot with sauce made from a few shalots, chopped very fine, minced parsley, pepper and salt, vinegar and water, and the brains well minced. CALF’S HEAD, To Carve.—Cut slices from across the cheek, and when this is all served take the meat from any other part where it is found. With each slice serve a portion of the tongue, which is sent to table separately with brain sauce. CALF’S HEART (BAKED).—Stuff the heart with minced suet, bread crumbs, yolk of egg, sweet marjoram, a little grated lemon peel, spice, pepper, and salt ; bake in the oven, and serve with melted butter, or gravy, and red currant jelly. CALF’S HEART (BROILED).—Cut the heart open, and broil it over a clear fire ; spread a bit of butter over it, put it in a dish, and pour over it a gill of mushroom ketchup. Serve very hot. CAMOMILE TEA.—Put an ounce of camomile flowers into a quart of boiling water; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain. From a wineglassful to a breakfast-cupful to be taken as a dose. When taken warm it acts as an emetic ; when cold, as a tonic. CANARIES, Asthma in.—Protect the birds from draughts; cover the cage over when the gas is lighted, and at night stand it on a stool or box, about a foot from the floor. Feed the pets on millet, linseed, or maw mixed with canary seed, but avoid giving hemp seed. Ripe plantain and the flowers of dandelion may be given with advantage. Put a pinch of carbonate of magnesia in the water, and if the wheezing is very marked mix ten drops of tincture of henbane and the same quantity of antimonial wine in an ounce of water and give it in the place of clear water. As moulting time approaches put a piece of ripe apple between the bars of the cage for the birds to peck at. CANARIES, Food for.—The principal food of the canary consists of brown rape and canary seed. In the spring its diet may be relieved by a little dandelion and chickweed ; in summer by some lettuce leaves and the flowers of plantain, with an occasional sound ripe strawberry or cherry ; in the autumn by a little endive or a small sprig of watercress, and in the winter by a slice or two of sweet apple. During the moulting season mix a little morse seed with the rape and put a few grains of saffron or a rusty nail in the drinking water. CANARIES, To Distinguish the Sexes.—A male bird may most readily be distinguished from a hen while it is in the act of singing ; its throat exhibits a pulse-like heaving which is scarcely perceptible in the female. CANARIES, Treatment of.—To preserve the plumage intact a cage should be selected having a diameter of at least ten inches with a minimum height of a foot. Care must be taken to keep the cage scrupu- lously clean, and a fresh layer of gravel put down every day. Provide a narrow vessel filled with water to serve as a bath, so that the drinking water may be kept clear. Place the cage in a warm situation where it can receive a good supply of fresh air but at the same time be screened from all draughts. During the winter keep the bird in a warm room, but even at that period of the year the windows maybe opened when the sun shines.