74 GAS GLOBES (SMOKY), To Clean.—Soak them well in hot soda and water, then put them into a pan of lukewarm water to which has been added a teaspoonful of ammonia ; scrub them with a hard brush till the stains disappear ; rinse in clear water and let them drain dry. By this means they will look equal to new. GAS METER, How to Read.—It will be noticed by looking at the index of the meter that it has three dials, that to the left hand repre- senting the hundreds, the centre the tens, and the right-hand one the units. As will readily be seen by the figures upon the dials, the hands indicating the hundreds and the units revolve from right to left, while the centre one rotates from left to right. In reading off the dial set down the figures next behind the pointers, commencing at the left hand, and add on two cyphers, at the end. By deducting from this product the total number of feet of gas previously registered on the card, the precise amount of gas used will be shown. Thus, for instance, supposing the hand of the hundreds points between i and 2, set down a figure 1 ; the centre hand to be between 6 and 7, add a 6 after the figure 1 already set down ; and the hand of the units to be between 7 and 8, put down the 7 and add the two cyphers. The figures will be 16,700 Deduct total amount registered last quarter (say) 12,200 Total number of feet consumed 4,500 4,500 feet at (say) 3s. 4d. per thousand = 15s. GENTIAN (TINCTURE OF).—Sliced gentian, two ounces and a half; dried orange peel, ten drams ; bruised cardamoms, five drams ; proof spirits, one quart. Macerate for a fortnight, then strain. Dose: One teaspoonful three times a day. Used to prevent acidification of the food, to strengthen the stomach, and to promote digestion. GENTIAN, To Cultivate.—The gentian is specially deserving of cultivation on account of its brilliant blue flowers, a colour so difficult to obtain in due proportion in most gardens. The dwarf kind is generally used as an edging, but shows to greater advantage when grown in a com- pact mass. This, as well as the major, is propagated by off-sets, and also by seeds sown on the surface of heath mould and left uncovered. There is another species, which bears a yellow flower, the roots of which are used in medicine. This is multiplied from seeds sown in sandy loam. The gentian delights in a half-shady situation, neither wet nor dry, and should be protected during severe frosts. GERANIUMS, To Propagate.—Take slips from the old plants in dry weather during July or August, put them into a sandy soil, water freely at once, and leave unshaded for some weeks. If the ends of the slips are touched with a paint-brush dipped in collodion, it will hasten the callus which cuttings must form before they can throw out roots. GERMAN PASTE FOR BIRDS.—Blanch and chop a quarter of a pound of almonds, add a pound of pea meal and the same quantity of crushed biscuits, the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs, and two ounces of essence of lemon. Mix, and press through a sieve. Another paste is made by soaking a little well-baked stale bread in water ; when it is perfectly soft squeeze out the water, add two-thirds the quantity of wheat meal, and enough boiling milk to reduce it to the con- sistence of paste. As this food soon becomes sour, and consequently injurious to the birds, it is necessary to make fresh every day. GERMAN SILVER, To Clean.—Proceed in the same manner as directed for Plate (which see).