140 OLEOGRAPHS, MAPS, &c., To Mount.—White linen is the best for this purpose. Strain the linen over a clean flat board, fastening the edges down with a few tacks so as to free it from wrinkles ; damp it slightly with cold water, and let it remain for a short time ; then paste the back of the oleograph and rub it well down over the strained linen. Let this stand till quite dry, then sponge it over with vellum size, and when perfectly dry apply a smooth coating of white paper varnish. OLIVE BRONZE DIP.—Dissolve palladium or titanium in one part nitric acid and two parts muriatic acid, then to each pint of the solution add two gallons of clear soft water. OMELETTES AUX FINES HERBES.—These are made in the same manner as ordinary plain omelettes, and seasoned with minced herbs and a small quantity of shalot. OMELETTES (FRIARS’).—Pare, core, and boil about a dozen good-sized apples, with just sufficient water to keep them from burning ; stir in a quarter of a pound of butter and the same weight of white sugar. When cold add six eggs, well beaten. Scatter bread crumbs over the bottom and sides of a baking dish ; put in the apples, and dredge them with bread crumbs. When baked to a nice colour, turn the omelette out and strew caster sugar over it. OMELETTES (GERMAN).—Mix together a dessert-spoonful of corn flour, a teaspoonful of wheaten flour, and two tablespoonfuls of cold milk. Boil half a pint of milk with four or five lumps of sugar, stir it into the flour, and let it get thick over the fire, then add two well-beaten eggs. Melt half an ounce of butter, spread it over a couple of dishes, pour in the omelettes, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. When they are of a nice golden brown colour, remove them from the oven, spread over half of each a spoonful of strawberry jam, fold the other half over, cover with sifted sugar, and serve. OMELETTES (PLAIN).—Make a batter of eggs, milk, and a small quantity of flour ; add chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Fry in hot butter to a fine yellow on both sides. Roll, or double it up, and serve. They are best when quite hot. OMELETTES (SWEET).—Mix eight eggs with a gill of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little grated nutmeg ; sweeten to taste ; fry in butter, sprinkle with white sugar, and serve. ONION SOUP.—Slice two turnips and a couple of carrots, and put them into two quarts of mutton broth ; when the vegetables are tender strain the soup, and add half a dozen onions, previously cut into slices and fried to a nice brown ; simmer for three hours, skim, and serve. ONIONS (ROAST).—Remove the outer skin, put before the fire, and baste frequently with milk and butter. Garnish with beetroot and mashed potatoes, and serve with cold butter. ONIONS (SPANISH), To Pickle.—Cut them in slices and lay them in salt and water for a day; then put them to drain. Boil some vinegar with a good quantity of spice, and pour it upon the onions, adding a small piece of alum to each jar. ONIONS (STEWED).—Peel the onions, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them slowly to a fine brown, then stew them in broth for a couple of hours, adding salt and pepper to taste. ONIONS, To Grow.—Sow the seed on strong, well-manured, deeply-dug ground, from the end of February to the end of April, keeping them well thinned and free from weeds. The silver skinned, for pickling, should be sown in May on a poor soil. The Lisbon is sown in August, to draw for salad onions in the spring. The Tripoli and Rocca varieties are sown in August, transplanted in spring, and drawn in the August following.