66 FLATULENCY, To Relieve.—Beat together one dram of refined sugar and ten drops of oil of anise-seed, then add two drams of tincture of ginger, four grains of rhubarb, and six ounces of peppermint-water. Dose : Three tablespoonfuls whenever needed. FLIES, To Destroy.—With one pint of infusion of quassia mix four ounces of brown sugar and two ounces of pepper. Put the mixture into small shallow dishes, and distribute them about the rooms. A mixture of black pepper, brown sugar, and cream, or strong green tea, sweetened, is also effectual. FLOUNDERS (BAKED).—Open each flounder and remove all the small bones, put them into a buttered dish, sprinkle with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, parsley, green onions, and bread raspings ; add a little butter, then bake. When done drain off the butter, and serve with caper sauce, with a little essence of anchovies and lemon juice in it. FLOUNDERS (BOILED).—Cut the flounders in two, and boil them in salt and water with an onion, sweet herbs, cloves, and pepper. When done serve with shrimp sauce on a dish garnished with red cabbage. FLOUNDERS (FRIED).—Cut them open, wash, and rub both the insides and outsides with salt; let them stand for a couple of hours to ensure firmness, then dip them first in egg and afterwards in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping till of a nice brown. FLOUR CAUDLE, for Infants. — Put a tablespoonful of flour into a basin, and rub it smooth with cold water ; pour upon it a cupful of boiling milk, sweeten, and boil for twenty minutes over a slow fire, stirring constantly. FLOUR (MUSTY), To Restore.—If to each fourteen pounds of musty flour one ounce of magnesia be added, it will have the effect of re- storing it to its normal condition. FLOUR (SELF-RAISING).—To each pound of flour add a quarter of an ounce of baking powder ; well mix, pass through a fine sieve, and store in a very dry place. A little powdered white sugar is sometimes added, but this is optional. FLOUR, To Detect Adulteration of.—Take a cupful of the flour and bake it until it is of a uniform deep brown, then rub it on to a board with the hands, when, if the flour is adulterated with chalk or plaster of Paris, it will at once be discovered by the white particles which will be seen mixed with the brown. Or, pour a little sulphuric acid on to it. If chalk or whiting be present effervescence will ensue. The purity of wheaten flour may be determined by taking up a handful and squeezing it into a ball. If it is pure it will adhere together. Another test is to place a small quantity on a table and blow it gently. If pure, the slightest breath will blow it into a cloud. If little heaps remain behind and resist the action of the breath, it is an indication of an ad- mixture. FLOWERS (FADED), To Revive.—Immerse one-third of the stalks in hot water, which let stand till cold ; then cut off the ends of the stalks and put them in cold water with some carbonate of soda. FLOWER SEEDS, To Ascertain if Ripe.—Put into water a sample of the seeds to be gathered ; if fully ripe the seeds will sink to the bottom, while if they are not fit for gathering they will float upon the surface. FLOWERS, To Extract Essential Oil from.—Place in an earthen pot a layer of the flowers, cover them with a layer of finely-ground salt, and repeat the operation till the vessel is full; cover closely and set in a