creased by dividing the stool, while single polyanthuses are raised from seed sown, as soon as ripe, on leaf mould and sand, pricking the plants out when large enough to be handled into the place where they are to flower. POMADE (CASTOR OIL).—Melt together four ounces of castor oil, two ounces of refined lard, and two drams of white wax. When cooling add two drams of bergamot and twenty drops of oil of lavender. POMADE for Strengthening the Hair.—Melt four ounces of lard and one ounce of white wax, add three ounces of olive oil, two drams of palm oil, and three-quarters of a dram each of oil of almonds and essence of bergamot. Stir the whole together, and pour it into pots to cool. POMADE to Accelerate the Growth of Hair.—Soak half a pound of beef marrow in several waters, strain, and add one ounce of tincture of cantharides and a dozen drops of oil of bergamot or other scent. POMATUM (ELDER-FLOWER).—Melt together over a slow fire two ounces of marrow, and the same amount of refined lard, then add four ounces of elder-flower oil and stir till it is nearly cold. POMATUM (MARROW).—Melt together one pound of lard and half a pound of suet. When nearly cold stir in three drams of otto of lemons and the same amount of otto of cloves. POMEGRANATE, General Treatment of the.—The pomegranate will live out of doors in England if planted against a wall where it gets shelter in winter and the sun in summer ; but it is best treated as a tub- plant, kept in a green-house till summer, and then put out in the open to flower. The plant is propagated by cuttings struck in heat, and requires to be kept copiously supplied with water during its period of growth. It flourishes best in a well-drained substantial rich loam, which should be re- newed every three or four years. As it flowers upon the new wood, care should be taken when pruning to leave on the lateral spurs. PORK, Chine of.—This joint may be sent to table either roasted or boiled, but the former is generally preferred. Lay it in salt for three or four days previous to cooking, then cut the skin lengthways into small strips, but not deep enough to reach the meat. Roast it with sage and onions finely shred. Serve with apple sauce. It generally accompanies turkey. PORK (COLLARED).—Take the bones out of a breast of pork ; season the meat highly with thyme, sage, and parsley; roll it up, tie in a cloth, and boil. Press it flat, and let stand till cold ; then remove the cloth, and keep it in its own liquor. PORK, Griskin of.—Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and when it has boiled take it up, butter and flour it, and put it before the fire to brown ; ten minutes will be sufficient. PORK (LEG OF), To Boil a.—Lay a fresh leg of pork in salt for a week or ten days, then soak it in cold water for half an hour ; wipe it dry, and boil in a floured cloth. For every pound weight allow fifteen minutes, and half an hour over, from the time it boils. Skim well, and serve with peas pudding. PORK (LEG OF), To Roast a.—For this dish the pork should be young and dairy-fed. Rub the skin with a little fresh butter ; separate the skin from the fat in the under and fillet end of the leg, and fill the space with finely chopped sage and onion, with pepper and salt ; hang to the fire, and when half done score the skin with a sharp knife, not cutting deeper than the outer rind. Serve with apple sauce. PORK (LOIN OF), To Roast a.—Score and joint the meat, put it into a saucepan, cover with water, and simmer till nearly cooked ; then take it up, remove the skin, coat with egg and bread crumbs, and hang it before the fire for a quarter of an hour or till it is done enough.