142 ORANGE PUDDING.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very soft, beat it in a mortar with the juice ; add two Naples biscuits grated, six ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of sugar, and six eggs well beaten ; mix well. Line a dish with paste, put in the orange mixture, lay bars of paste on the top, and bake for half an hour. ORANGE TART.—Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, boil it tender, beat it to a paste ; add the juice of the fruit, a pound of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Line a tart-pan or shallow dish with puff paste, add the orange pulp, and bake in a moderate oven. Orange tarts may also be made from orange marmalade. ORANGES, To Clean.—Put half a bushel of dry sawdust in a barrel, pour in two or three boxes of oranges, and then turn slowly upon a crank. The fruit will come out remarkably clean. ORANGES, To Preserve.—Boil the oranges first in salt and water, then boil them for ten minutes three successive days in a very thin syrup ; let them stand for eight weeks, after which give them a light boil in a thick syrup ; let them stand a day, then put them into jars with the syrup, cover a paper dipped in brandy over each pot and tie down with a bladder. When boiling, do not cover the saucepan. ORANGE TONIC.—Steep one ounce of orange peel, one ounce of camomile flowers, and a few cloves in a pint of boiling water. A wine- glassful to be taken in the same quantity of sherry wine. ORGEAT.—Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds and fifteen bitter, and pound them with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees a pint of milk mixed with the same amount of water, and strain the whole through a canvas bag. Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar in half a pint of water, skim it well, and mix it with the other ingredients ; add a glass of brandy and a spoonful of orange-flower water. ORMOLU.—Grind some fine brass to an impalpable powder, and mix with it seventy-five per centum of copper and twenty-five per centum of zinc. A higher colour may be obtained by adding gold lacquer to the above. OSTRICH FEATHERS, To Clean.—Dissolve four ounces of white soap in four pints of rather hot water ; work it into a lather, then immerse the feathers and rub briskly with the hand for five or ten minutes ; wash in clear water, as hot as can be borne by the hand, and shake them till dry. OX-CHEEK, Marinate of.—Take out the bones, and stew the meat with red wine and white wine vinegar ; season with salt and pepper. When tender, take it up, and put to the liquor in which it was stewed, a pint of sherry wine, a bunch of rosemary, two bay leaves, sage, parsley, marjoram, thyme, a few pepper corns, and a little sliced ginger. Boil these together ; strain, and pour the liquor over the meat. Serve garnished with sliced lemon. OX-CHEEK (POTTED).—Take the fleshy part of the cheek after it is stewed, season with pepper and salt, and beat it very fine in a mortar with a small quantity of fat skimmed off the gravy ; press it into pots and pour over it mutton fat or clarified butter. OX-CHEEK (STEWED).—Cleanse the cheek and lay it in luke- warm water for three or four hours, then soak it in cold water for seven or sight hours ; wipe it clean, put it into a stew-pot with three quarts of water, and after it has boiled a few moments skim it well and let it simmer for two hours, and then put with it two whole onions, a couple of turnips, two sliced carrots, a bundle of sweet herbs, and pepper, salt, garlic, and leek to taste. Let the whole stew till the meat and vegetables are tender, re- moving the scum as it rises. Take out the cheek, divide it into suitable pieces for the table ; let the stew cool, and remove the fat. Warm the