73 GALLING IN PERSONS CONFINED TO BED, To Prevent.—Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, and, while doing so, add gradually two spoonfuls of spirits of wine. Apply occasionally with a feather. The bottle must be kept well corked. GALVANIC BATTERY, A Cheap. — A powerful galvanic battery may be made for a trifling expense in the following manner:— Procure the bowls of six tobacco pipes, break off all the stems, and stop up the small hole with sealing-wax. Place on the table six small glass tumblers one inch high, and place in each a cylinder of amalga- mated zinc. On every cylinder put a pipe-bowl, in each of which insert a slip of thin platinum foil, one and a quarter inches long and half an inch wide, connected at the zinc cylinder by platinum wire. Fill the pipe-bowls with nitric acid and the tumblers with dilute sulphuric acid, and a strong current of electricity will be set free, capable of igniting wire, &c. GAME, Farcing for.—Scrape the raw liver and some suet very fine, and chop up a little parsley and a small piece of shalot; add a small quantity of thyme, knotted marjoram, basil, a few bread crumbs, pepper, and salt, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a few grains of nutmeg ; pound the whole nicely, and mix with a couple of eggs, well beaten. GAME PIE.—Divide the game into joints or pieces and put it into a pie-dish with some fat ham or streaky bacon, season rather highly, cover with puff-paste, and put into the oven to bake. When rather more than half done raise the crust and pour in four or five tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a glass of light wine, and the juice of a lemon. GAME (POTTED).—Remove all skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar ; flavour with mixed spice, cayenne, black pepper, salt, and a few grains of sugar. Rub the whole through a wire sieve with an equal quantity of butter; mix well together, press into pots, and cover with clarified butter. GAME (STEWED).—Divide the partridge, pheasant, &c., into nice-sized pieces, and put it into a stew-pan with slices of veal and ham, a couple of onions, carrots, and a little celery ; add a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes ; then add some good broth, and stew the whole gently for half an hour. GAME, To Preserve.—Game may be kept sweet for a considerable time by placing inside it muslin bags filled with powdered charcoal, renew- ing the bags from day to day. GARGLES FOR INFLAMED THROAT.—Take one dram of sulphuric ether and add to it half an ounce of syrup of marsh-mallows and a teacupful of barley water. Gargle the throat frequently with the mixture until the inflammation dies away. Or, mix together two drams of purified nitre, seven drams of acetate of honey, and eight ounces of barley-water. Use frequently. GARLIC FLOWERS.—Several species of this plant are grown as border flowers, but their offensive odour makes them unfit for the flower garden. The kind known as "Allium Moley,” however, are very effective in large bouquets, which are only intended to be looked at and not handled They delight in a warm, dry, light soil, and increase rapidly by bulbs' which should be separated every second or third year. ’ GARLIC ROOTS, To Grow.—Part the cloves of the root in spring, and plant them in rows six to nine inches asunder, and two deep and'housed^’" perfection in July or AuSust, when they may be taken up 11