WffommMM js/ipiE m joji co um ijM-uv • • : •LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: emu h M 0106 0 05 6255LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark Cookery K-3 1885 JON1WHOLESOME COOKERYWHOLESOME COOKERY BY MADAME MARIE DE JONCOURT THIRD EDITION. LONDON KEG AN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1, PATERNOSTER SQUARE 1885.S7QI17) UUl'EVury LldR&PY LEEDS [The rights of translation and of reproduction are reserved.)PREFACE. The following “ menus,” and the recipes contained in this book, have, with a few exceptions, been carried out in a small household, with one cook, and without the assistance of a kitchenmaid. They may seem elaborate at first to those young housekeepers who are ignorant of cooking, and who think that fresh rolls, ices, and a variety of made dishes, must always be had from a confectioner. My advice is this: “ Do not serve at your table dishes that cannot be made at home.” The so-called plain cooking which exists in many English houses is extravagant cooking. A “ plain cook ” does not know how to use up her small scraps of meat, fish, or vegetables; she has little knowledge of soups or sauces, and has no notion that in throwing away a spoonful of gravy she is wasting the foundation of a good dish. A plain*cook—I mean one who can roast and bake well—ought, with a few directions, to be able to makePREFACE. VI almost any dish described in this book. She must have patience and perseverance. So must her mistress. She must attend to the smallest details ; she must take as much pride in serving up a plain dish of rissoles as the most elaborate made dish. If a dish be too salt or too hot with pepper, it is a disgrace to the cook to send it to table, as she could, by a little contrivance, have remedied the defect and saved annoyance to her mistress. I am not giving directions for preparing meat, fish, roasting, etc., in this book; every mistress will provide her cook with a “ Mrs. Beeton ” or an “ Eliza Acton,” one of which no kitchen should be without. Where quantities are given in these recipes, those quantities must be carefully followed, as the success of a dish depends on the accuracy with which the directions are followed. The time for cooking certain dishes has intentionally not been given. A cook must understand her stove, and gradually calculate for herself the times required. The following dishes have been made on a close range in the winter, and on a Leoni’s gas-stove in the summer, and the time for cooking each dish has varied according to which stove was used. In stewino- meats the cook must remember that o they must simmer, and never boil. If they boil, the meat will be hard. The same with sauces or custards iVll PREFACE. in which there are yolks of eggs; if they boil they will curdle. Again, with frying, the directions must be followed absolutely; if they are not, the things fried will be brown, greasy, and indigestible. As the dishes come out from table, the cook must remove the remains of each dish, no matter how small, on to clean plates; the remains of gravy into jars. The next morning the mistress should find everything in order in her larder; she will at once see what remains, and give directions how each article can be used. The scraps of meat and bones will be simmered down for stock or gravy, and on no account must the stock of yesterday be added to what is made to-day. Use some of to-day’s to lengthen out what was left yester- day, if necessary; but if you add always yesterday’s stock to all that you are making fresh, you will have sour stock and gravy at the end of the week, and must not be astonished if your family have indigestion and are told by the doctor, “ Never touch soups and sauces.” With great respect for the very variable views of the medical profession on the subject of wholesome food, I would suggest that “ never touch sour soups and sour sauces ” would express as much as their experience really justifies on this subject. The scraps of each day must, then, be used up each day, and not all collected together to make a sour con-PREFACE. Vlll coction at the end of the week. The scraps of meat —those not required for stock—will, used together make rissoles, savoury moulds, salads, curries, or “ gratins.” The scraps of vegetables will make a soup, a salad, a “ chartreuse,” a “ macedoine,” “ gratin,” or curry. The fish will make patties, curries, rissoles, “ gratins,” or a mayonnaise salad. If you wish to have wholesome cookery, make a rule never to have bottled sauces in the house. Your sauces must be made with fresh meat and vegetables. I make one exception in favour of mushroom ketchup (as it is not always possible to get mushrooms), though I think it is better to do without it, unless you make your own mushroom ketchup and bottle it in very small bottles, so as to use the contents of each bottle as soon as it is opened. Do not allow perquisites. Remember that roast- beef dripping and the skimmings from the “ pot au feu ” are the best fats for frying ; other drippings are also good (when properly prepared), and do not let your cook persuade you to the contrary. If you have not enough dripping, you must, of course, supplement it with the best olive oil, butter, or lard; but remember that lard is the least nice medium for frying in. In a household of five persons all told, and using on an average twenty-five sliillingsworth of meat a week, of which one joint is a sirloin, there ought to be alwaysPREFACE. IX enough dripping for ordinary frying purposes. Fox- instance, a sirloin of ten pounds will give about a pound of dripping; a leg of English mutton will give about three-quarters of an ounce of dripping to every pound of meat; a shoulder will usually give rather more. Dripping and other fats, if properly clarified and kept in a cool place, can be used over and over again. The cook must have two jars of fat always i-eady for use— one which she will keep to fry her fish in, and one in which to fry her meats and vegetables. Impress economy on your cook, but let it be dis- tinctly xmderstood that economy means knowing how to use things properly, and does not mean pai'simony. Using stale eggs, commonly called “pudding eggs,” and salt butter for cooking is extravagant stinginess, and is not economy. The result will probably be a failure, wrhile a different dish, with properly chosen but cheaper materials, would have been a success. It is not economical to give beefsteaks in the kitchen and use rumpsteaks in the paiiour. A pound and a quarter of beefsteak will not go as far as a pound of rumpsteak; besides which, the beefsteak, usually tough, will have to be stewed, and that necessitates stock and vegetables. I do not advise “ locking up ” if you want to be really economical—I mean in the sense of measuring out spoonfuls of tea and lumps of sugar. Of course it is not advisable to leave out large quantities, such as a chest of tea or a bag of sugar. LetCONTENTS. Twenty-four Different Dinners Soups Fish ... Sauces Vegetables, etc. Meats and Birds ... Sweets Savoury Dishes Bread, etc. Sundries ... Index PAGE 1 10 27 43 57 92 125 155 162 168 177WHOLESOME COOKERY. TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. N.B.—No vegetables have been specified with the Boasts. It is sup- posed that vegetables “ in season ” will be provided. Dinner 1. Pot an feu (Recipe 1). Fried Soles and Tomato Sauce (93). Roast Partridges. Galantine of Cold Beef (238). Vegetable Salad (209). Set Cream (337) Dinner 2. Conde Soup (Recipe 22). Cod and Bdchamel Sauce (98). Roast Beef. Gratin of Jerusalem Artichokes (1G7). Coffee Mousse (343). BWHOLESOME COOKERY. Dinner 3. Clear Soup (Recipe 2). Skate “ & l’ltalienne ” (66) Beefsteak Pie. Rice Pudding (359). Toasted Cheese (405). Dinner 4. Lentil Soup (Recipe 23). Mackerel “au beurre noir ” (70). Aiguebelle Fritters (210). Roast Pheasant. Sardine Salad (397), Winter Pudding (310). Dinner 5. Tomato and Pumpkin Soup (Recipe 19). Turbot and Walnut Sauce (89). Cutlets and Tossed Cauliflowers (143). Roast Turkey. Potato Salad (134). Marmalade Pudding (369).3 TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. Dinner 6. Soubise Soup (Recipe 17). Fried Smelts (72). Cauliflower Fritters (141). Roast Ducks. Risotto a la Milanaise (203). Almond Puddings (367). Dinner 7. Turnip and Rice Soup (Recipe 32). Broiled Whitings (58a). Chicken “ a la Verez ” (271). Roast Fillet of Beef (234a). Beetroot “ a la Creme ” (182). Tea Cream (333). Dinner 8. Chestnut Soup (Recipe 12). Soles “ a la Parisienne ” (50). Broiled Fillets of Beef and Fried Potatoes (129). Jambon au Yin de Madere (296). Genoa Cream (330). Macaroni “ au gratin ” (398).WHOLESOME COOKERY. Dinner 9. Solferino Soup (Recipe 8). Fried Sole “ k la maitre d’hotel ” (124). Wild Ducks. Potatoes Soufflees (135). Puree of Lentils (195). Orange Cream (331). Dinner 10. Julienne Soup (Recipe 26). Herrings “ au beurre noir ” (70b). Mutton Cutlets and Celery Sauce (113). Dressed Brussels Sprouts (146b). Buff Pudding. Dinner 11. Clear Soup (Recipe 2). “ Suffren ” Eel (80). Fried Chicken (273). “Civet” of Hare (292). Broiled Cutlets. Puree of Chestnuts (191). Eggs “ a la tripe ” (221). Apple Charlotte (375). Cheese Pudding (402).TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 5 Dinner 12. Potato Soup (Recipe 40). Baked Turbot (84). Chickens “a la Champenoise” (270). Fillet of Beef (234). Carrots “ a la Poulette ” (169). Egg Curry (188). Apple Tart (376). Claret Jelly (378). Dinner 13. Mulligatawny Soup (Recipe 45). Fried Soles. Horse-radish Butter (123). Fricandeau of Veal (248). Salsifis Fritters (161). Partridges. Savoury Oysters (40S). Fig Mould (318). Parfait au Cafe (390). Dinner 14. Monaco Soup (Recipe 41). Sole “ au gratin ” (53). Cutlets “a la Soubise” (112). Stewed Duck and Turnips (277). Chartreuse de Legumes (208). Sweet Omelet (352). Orange Water Ice (385).6 WHOLESOME COOKERY. Dinner 15. Crdcy Soup (Recipe 24). Turbot. Sauce “Poivrade” (100). Fillets of Beef Sautds (232). Timbale cle Ldgumes (190). Roast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts (278). Italian Eggs (cold) (211), and Green Salad. Plum-pudding (320). G^ufs aux pistacbes (351). Dinner 16. Macedonian Soup (Recipe 4). Cod and Oyster Sauce. Langue de Bceuf Braisee (260). Pastry Rissoles (306). Roast Mutton. Turnips “au gratin’’ (174). Banana Fritters (312). Almond Cream (367a). Dinner 17. Rice and Pumpkin Soup (Recipe 31). Boiled Salmon. Gherkin Sauce (107) Partridges “ a la Parisienne ” (2S5. Croustades (299).TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 7 Broiled Steaks. Potatoes “it la maitre d’hotel” (133). Macaroni “ en Timbale ” (185). Marmalade Pudding and Brandy Butter (369 and 128). Bavaroise (329). Dinner 18. Macaroni Soup (Recipe 7). Eel “a la minute” (81). Cutlets with Hashed Leeks (152). Fried Oysters (307). Roast Chickens. Omelet “a la Robespierre” (353). Anchovy Toast (411). DINNERS WITHOUT MEAT. Dinner 1. Lent Soup (Recipe 10). Bouille a Baisse (61). Celery Fritters (165). Croustades of Mushrooms (180 ). Purde of Sorrel (148). Pain Perdu (313). Prune Mould (319). Stewed Cheese (404).8 WHOLESOME COOKERY. Dinner 2. Oysters. Italian Soup (made with milk instead of stock) (Recipe 6). Whitings “a la Orly ” (55). Turnips “ en Poulette” (173). Macaroni “ en Timbale ” (185). Omelet “a la Soribise” (226). Maraschino Toast (315). Vanilla Cream Ice (388). Dinner 3. Peasant Soup (made with milk instead of stock) (Recipe 9). Flemish Mackerel (69). Stuffed Artichokes (154 a). Risotto a la Napolitaine (204). Cauliflower “ au gratin ” (140). Cabinet Pudding (309). Fruit Cream Ice (389). Dinner 4. Fonds d’Artichauds Soup (made with milk instead of stock) (Recipe 13). Skate “ au beurre noir ” (65). Poached Eggs and Tomato Sauce (218).9 TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. Potatoes “ a la CrSme” (13G). French Pancakes (323). Chocolate Cream (335). Anchovy Toast (411). Dinner 5. Herb Soup (Recipe 16). Soles, “ Indian way of cooking ” (63). Puree of White Haricot Beans (199). Curried Vegetables (187). Caramel Rice Mould (358). Coffee Souffle (362). Hot Sandwiches (407). Dinner 6. Tomato and Okra Soup (Recipe 20). Baked Gurnet (82). Purde of Chestnuts (191). Omelet and Tomatoes (225). Vegetable Salad (209). Creme Brule'e (cold) (327). Fig Mould (318). Fondue (399). Lemon Water Ice (385).WHOLESOME COOKERY. 10 SOUPS. 1.—Pot au feu. Put in a large saucepan 6 or 7 pounds of silver side of the round of beef, 5 quarts of cold water. Before it begins to boil, skim it very carefully. When all the scum has been removed, add 5 turnips, 6 carrots, 1 leek, 2 parsnips, 2 large onions, 1 good bunch of parsley, 1 head of celery, 6 cloves, a few peppercorns, 1 ball of browning, salt to taste (about 2 tablespoonfuls for this quantity); simmer very slowly for 5 or 6 hours. Be- fore using, strain through a hair sieve. The beef is good hot or cold, but especially cold. This soup ought » to be 'perfectly clear. If it is not so, it is either because some of the scum has not been removed, or principally because the soup has been allowed to boil. If the beef is used hot, serve a piquante or tomato sauce with it, or thicken a little of the soup and serve that. The vegetables can be chopped, pressed into a mould, and turned out cold with a mayonnaise sauce. 2.—English Clear Soup. 3 to 4 pounds of gravy beef. Cut the meat into pieces, and fry them in a little butter to colour them ;sours. 11 put them into 3 or 4 quarts of cold water, let them simmer, and skim carefully. When no scum is left, put into the saucepan 2 carrots, 2 turnips, half a head of celery, 1 hunch of savoury herbs, 4 cloves, 2 blades of mace, some peppercorns, and salt to taste. Simmer gently from G to 8 hours, strain through a hair sieve. When cold, skim off any fat there may be. N.B.—Soup made in this manner should be perfectly clear. If a cook requires to “ clear ” her soup, as some do, with whites of eggs, etc., it is only because she has not taken sufficient care at first with it. Her soup must simmer, and never boil. If once it boils, it will become thick and muddy. 3.—Francatelli’s Bonne Femme Soup. Chop up finely 1 cucumber, 4 lettuces, 1 handful of chervil; place these in a small saucepan with 2 ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; simmer gently for about 10 minutes, then add a tablespoonful of flour; moisten with 3 pints of veal stock, stir over the fire until the soup boils, then set it on one side to simmer; now stir into it very carefully G yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, and a small dessert-spoonful of sugar. N.B.—Some may think this soup an expensive one. It need not be so if the housekeeper will arrange to have for the previous day’s dinner a boiled knuckle of veal, or a dish of calves’ feet— 2 are sufficient—as theWHOLES OME CO OKER Y. 12 water in which they have been boiled is the proper stock for this soup. She can also arrange that her sweet, the clay she requires the soup, should be one necessitating whites of eggs. 4.—Macedonian Soup. Put at the bottom of a stewpan 2 slices of ham or a piece of lean bacon, then 2 carrots, 2 potatoes, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, all cut up very small; add your stock; season with pepper and salt. Let it simmer very gently until all the vegetables are reduced to a pulp; if too thick, add a little stock before you finish simmering. Now rub it all through a hair sieve, and before dishing up add a little cream. 5.—Livonian Soup. Chop up, scald, and drain the following vegetables : —carrots, turnips, parsley, leeks, and onions. Fry them in butter; add a couple of small handfuls of scalded rice, and the quantity of stock you require. Let it simmer until quite done. Pass it through a sieve, add a small quantity of boiled cream, stir in a few yolks of eggs, and pour over some fried sippets. 6.—Italian Soup. Parboil separately some heads of celery, cabbage, carrots, turnips, and leeks; drain them and chop13 sours. them up small; put them in a saucepan with butter, pepper, and salt; let them simmer gently; add stock and some finely chopped fowl livers; then add some previously boiled macaroni, some grated Parmesan cheese; simmer all together and serve. 7.—Macaroni Soup. Scald some macaroni in salt and water; put it in some good stock, and simmer till quite cooked; serve with grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheeses. This makes a good and simple white macaroni soup, if milk and a little butter, pepper, and salt are used in place of the stock. 8. —Solferino Soup Is made with French beans, white haricot beans, new potatoes, young carrots, young green peas, a few spoonfuls of tomato purt;e, chopped parsley, chervil, celery, all thoroughly simmered in stock till quite cooked. Add in the tureen some fried sippets. 9. —Peasant Soup. Chop cabbage, carrots, onions, and celery; toss them in butter a pale brown; add a little stock, and simmer very gently for 3 hours; now add some water that haricot beans or lentils have been cooked in, simmer another half-hour; now add some very finely chopped sorrel and lettuce; let it all come to a boil, and pour it into the tureen over some fried sippets.14 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 10. —Lent Soup. 1 tablespoonful of cornflour, 1 small teacupful of milk; mix smooth, and add 1^- pint of veal stock; put it in a saucepan, stir it over the fire. Put 2 yolks of eggs in a cup, break them with a spoon. When the soup is no longer boiling, add a little by degrees to the yolks of eggs, and then stir it all into the soup- Now stir in a little cream or butter and serve. 11. —Oyster Soup. 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour in a bason, mixed with a little cold milk and thoroughly blended without lumps; to this add 1 pint of good white stock, 1 gill of cream, salt and pepper. When it begins to simmer, drop in 1 dozen of oysters and simmer a few minutes. 12.—Chestnut Soup. Take the shells off some chestnuts; put them in boiling water, until they can easily be peeled. Now let them simmer, but not boil, in your stock; flavour with pepper and salt. When quite cooked, pass all through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add a little cream, and serve with fried sippets. 13.—Fonds d’Artichauds Soup. The underparts of some French artichokes; boil them till done in some water in which you have blended15 sours. a little flour, and flavoured with salt and lemon-juice. When cooked, mash them and add them to some good white stock, simmer together for some time, pass through a hair sieve, put back on the fire, add some butter and cream, and serve. This soup is very good made with the canned artichokes, which are already cooked, and would not, of course, require boiling separately. 14. —White Sago Soup. 1J ounce of sago, 1 quart milk, salt, and pepper; boil it all together till the sago is cooked (if too thick add stock or water); add 1 ounce of butter, stir it into the soup, and serve. 15. —Brown Sago Soup. Proceed as above, only use stock instead of milk. 16.—Herb Soup. Wash 1 handful of sorrel, chop it up, put it in a saucepan with 1 ounce of butter • stew for about half an hour, add water or stock or half milk and water, pepper and salt, and 1 teacupful of fine bread-crumbs. Stew from 1£ to 2 hours ; beat 1 yolk of egg in the tureen; pour the hot soup over, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. This recipe is good with lettuces and spinach mixed.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 16 17.—Soubise Soup. 1J pint of water, half a pint of milk, li ounce of butter, 2 onions, 5 ounces of bread, the yolks of one or two eggs or 1 gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Cut the bread into very thin slices, boil it in the water and milk, with the onions thinly sliced ; add the butter, pepper, and salt; when thoroughly stewed to a pulp, rub through a wire sieve. Now set it again on the fire, and let it simmer for a few minutes, and just before sending it to table add the cream or the yolks of eggs. 18.—Earley Soup. Half an ounce of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful of pre- pared barley blended together; add 1 pint of white stock or milk, flavour with pepper and salt, boil together for 15 minutes, and serve with fried sippets. Must be quite smooth. 19.—Tomato and Pumpkin Soup. Stew together equal quantities of tomatoes and pumpkin with a small quantity of onion, pepper and salt, stock or water. When quite cooked, strain through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add a little milk and butter or cream. Serve with fried sippets.17 SOUPS. 20.—Tomato and Okra Soup. Take a tin of the puree of tomatoes, pass it through a sieve, add equal quantity of water or stock or milk and water, a little onion and dried vegetables, pepper and salt, half a small tin of okras. Stew gently for three-quarters of an hour ; add in at the last a small lump of butter. N.B.—This soup is, of course, excellent with fresh tomatoes and vegetables, but as a winter soup with canned and dried vegetables is strongly to be recom- mended. If preferred plain, leave out the okra, and thicken with bread-crumbs or sago or rice. 21.—Piedmontese Soup. Let some rice soak in hot water for about 1 hour ; let a cabbage (broken in pieces) soak also in hot water and salt about the same time. Drain both rice and cabbage. Place them in a saucepan with butter or dripping, a chopped onion, pepper, salt, and nut- meg • add either water or stock or gravy. Let all this stew together for some time, and just before serving add some grated Parmesan cheese. Another way.—Stew some cabbages with carrots, onions, bunch of herbs, and plenty of butter. When nearly cooked, add some stock, or the water the cab- bages have cooked in, and fine bread-crumbs. Let CWHOLESOME COOKERY. 18 all stew for a few minutes, and add grated cheeses, Parmesan and Gruy&re mixed. 22.—Conde Soup. Stew some red haricot beans with a few vegetables and stock. When thoroughly cooked and flavoured with pepper and salt, pass it all through a hair sieve ; put it back for a few minutes on the fire, add a small lump of butter, and serve with fried sippets. N.B.—This soup can be made without meat stock. 23. —Lentil Soup. Made exactly like the above, using lentils instead of red haricot beans. 24. —Crecy Soup. Chop up some young and red carrots, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, add a pinch of sugar. Let this cook very gently, keeping the sauce- pan well covered, but occasionally stirring. Next add some stock and a raw peeled potato; simmer very gently; flavour, of course, with pepper and salt. Now pass through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add some stock, let it come to one boil, and serve with fried sippets. Another way.—Cut into pieces some carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. Scald them in boiling water, strain19 SOUPS. them, and put them on a slow fire with a good lump of butter, a couple of thin slices of ham and your stock; pass through a hair sieve after it has cooked a short time. Now put it all back on the fire, and let it stew gently for two hours; skim it carefully and serve with sippets. A third way is to add rice after the above has been through a hair sieve, and dispense with the sippets. 25.—Faubonne Soup. Cut in shreds some lettuces, sorrel, and celery ; toss them in 1 ounce of butter with some small onions (previously scalded), add your stock, flavour with pepper and salt, stew till cooked. At the last moment add a pur^e of peas and serve. 26.—Julienne Soup. 3 carrots, 3 turnips, white part of 3 heads of celery, some leeks, and a little onion. Cut all these into thin shreds, and put them into a stewpan with 2 ounces of butter, a little salt, a small lump of sugar ; stir lightly over the fire, and fry of a light colour. Then place it in a saucepan with your stock, set it to simmer, and remove all the scum very carefully as it rises; add 2 cabbage lettuces, a little tarragon and chervil, a little sorrel. Simmer till the vegetables are completely cooked.20 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 27. —Lettuce Soup. Scald some young lettuces, drain them thoroughly ; put them to simmer in some stock or broth, until they are thoroughly cooked. Take them off the fire; mash them up as smooth as possible with a wooden spoon; place all again on the fire; add more stock, if necessary; simmer again for a few minutes, with a little cream, and serve. 28. —Spring Soup. Cut carrots, turnips, and leeks into small pieces; toss them in 1 ounce of butter, stirring all the time; when slightly brown, put them in some stock and simmer for about 1 hour. Then add some peas, French beans, and asparagus tops (all previously boiled) ; simmer again for 8 or 10 minutes, skim carefully, and serve. 28a.—Plain Bread Soup. 1^ pint of cold water, 3 ounces of bread in a lump, 1 ounce of butter, 1 yolk of egg, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper. Put the bread in a saucepan, with the water and half an ounce of butter, the pepper and salt; let it simmer gently for If hour; stir it occasion- ally, and break the bread with a wooden spoon when it has become quite soft. Just before dishing up the soup stir in the other half-ounce of butter and the yolk ofsours. 21 egg; let it simmer a moment, but not boil, or the egg will curdle. 29.—Plain Vegetable Soup (without Meat). Carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, pepper, and salt. Cut all into small pieces; toss them up in 1 or 2 ounces of butter, till they are thoroughly browned. Place all this in the saucepan with the water some lentils or haricot beans have been boiled in; simmer for 4 hours. Put in your tureen some fried sippets; pour the hot soup over. 30.—Simple Pea Soup. Put some young green peas in some boiling water; pepper and salt. When thoroughly cooked, add 2 ounces of fresh butter. Pour this in the tureen, over some sippets already fried in butter (those who object to butter may use 1 or 2 gills of cream). 31.—Rice and Pumpkin Soup. Cut some pumpkin into small pieces; put it in a saucepan, with some onion, a clove, piece of celery, pepper, salt, and water. When thoroughly cooked, pass it through a hair sieve. Put it back on the fire, with some rice which has previously soaked in warm water; add a little butter; simmer until the rice is cooked, and serve.22 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 32.—Turnip and Rice Soup. Simmer very gently together, until cooked, turnips and rice (more turnip than rice), with some butter and water. When cooked, pass through a hair sieve ; put it back on the fire; add some milk, pepper, and salt; simmer again; stir frequently with a wooden spoon; at the last moment, add a little butter and some cream. Serve with fried sippets, or, if the soup is not very thick, with some rice boiled separately as for curry. 33. —Plain Turnip Soup. Have ready some cooked turnips—in fact, a puree of turnips, very smooth and nicely dressed with pepper and salt. Place some stock in a saucepan; thicken it slightly with sago; when the sago is cooked, add the turnips; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve. The addition of some cream is an im- provement. 34. —Rice and Pea Soup. Have ready a well-flavoured puree of peas and some cooked rice. Add them together to some stock; simmer together for a few minutes; add a little cream, and serve. 35.—Rice Cream Soup. Cook some rice thoroughly in chicken stock ; pass through a hair sieve; put it back on the fire; add23 SOUPS. some more of the chicken stock to that which the rice has boiled in; add a little cream, pepper, and salt; simmer for a few minutes, and serve. This is a good way of using the water some chickens have boiled in. For a change, add some chopped, scalded chervil. 36.—Game Soup. Remains of any cold game ; boil them down with any game hones you may have, 1 onion, some herbs, a few vegetables, pepper, and salt. Then take the meat off the hones; mince it in the machine; pass it through a hair sieve; strain the stock. Now put the game purde and the stock all back over the fire; let it simmer (but not boil) until it thickens. 37. —Sorrel and Lentil Soup. Put 1 ounce of butter in a saucepan ; when melted, put in a handful of chopped sorrel; stew it in the butter about half an hour; add to it the water some lentils have been boiled in, 2\ tablespoonfuls of rice, and any gravy you may have, or a little Liebig exti-act. Simmer for 2 or 3 hours, stir frequently, and season to taste with pepper and salt. 38. —Potato and Chervil Soup. Boil or steam some potatoes; peel them; pass them through a colander. Put them on the fire, withWHOLESOME COOKERY. 24 1 ounce of butter and sufficient milk, pepper, and salt; let it boil once; then throw in a handful of chopped chervil. Pour in the tureen over some small sippets of fried bread. 39.—Parisian Soup. Cut some leeks into pieces about an inch long, fry them in butter until slightly brown, add your stock and some potatoes cut into thin slices; let it all simmer until done. Pour over slices of cut bread. 40. —Potato Soup. Slice some raw potatoes; put them into a saucepan with some nice stock (or water and some bones), 1 or 2 onions, a bunch of parsley, pepper, and salt; simmer for 3 or 4 hours, then strain through a sieve; put it again over the fire and simmer about half an hour. It must be about as thick as pea soup. A little cream added to it is an improvement. If there are no bones or stock, make this soup with half milk and half water, and after the soup has been strained, and just before dishing it up, stir in 1 ounce of butter. 41. —Monaco Soup. Fry some nicely shaped pieces of bread in butter a pale brown, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, place them in the bottom of a tureen. Now boil some milk or milk and cream; add a few yolks of eggs; pour it quite hot over the sippets.25 SOUPS. 42.—Sorrel Cream Soup Stew some chopped sorrel in butter; thicken with Hour; add water, pepper, and salt; boil a few minutes. Mix some yolk of eggs in cream, stir it gently into the soup, then pour into the tureen over some fried sippets. 43.—Pumpkin Soup. Put some slices of pumpkin (if pumpkins are in season, or a can of preserved pumpkins if they are not) in a saucepan with a little onion, carrot, and turnip, pepper, salt, and stock or water; stew till quite cooked; pass through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add a little milk and butter or cream, simmer for a few minutes, and serve with fried sippets. 44.—Onion Soup. Melt some butter or very good dripping; in this fry s’ightly some very finely chopped onions. When they are slightly browned, add a good pinch of flour; let it try with the onion till both are brown. Now add some stock (or milk and water), pepper, and salt; let it simmer a little time, and serve with fried sippets. Another way is to leave out the flour and sippets, and use either vermicelli or rice, and let it stew until thoroughly cooked. A third way is to use small onions. Peel them and26 WHOLESOME COOKERY. scald them for a few minutes, stew them in some butter, and add good stock, and serve as above with fried sippets. 45.—Mulligatawny Soup. Chop the bone of a knuckle of veal small; put it in a stewpan with a quart of good stock, 2 large onions, 1 teacupful of rice, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder; stew from 4 to 5 hours. 46.—Curried Soup. Fry some chopped onion in butter, toss it up with some curry powder, add some stock or milk, pass it through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire with some previously boiled rice, boil up once, and serve.C 27 ; FISH. 47.—Sole “ a la Creme.” Roll up tlie fillets of sole nicely; stew them gently in nice white stock; when done, take them out and drain them; then make a sauce with 1 ounce of flour, 1 ounce of butter, 1 gill of the stock the fish was stewed in, and 1 gill of cream. When cooked very smooth, serve over the soles. 48.—Broiled Sole. Sprinkle both sides of a sole with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice; rub it over with hot butter, sprinkle it over with fine bread-crumbs, and broil on both sides, either before the fire or in the oven. Pound an an- chovy with a little butter; add a small glass of dry white wine, some lemon-juice; simmer for a few minutes over the fire, and serve on the sole. 49.—Soles “ a la Turban.” Cut a piece of bread the same shape as a cork, but very much larger; place it on a baking dish; round the bread place some slices of very thin fresh pork <rWHOLESOME COOKERY. 28 fat, then a cushion of savoury stuffing made of fish, herbs, bread-crumb, previously stewed together; on this place some well- shaped fillets of sole in the form of a turban; on the fillets place some mushrooms or truffles; pour over some hot butter, then pour over some lemon-juice ; over this place a few slices of thin fresh pork fat; cover with a buttered paper, put in the oven, and bake. Have ready a thick tomato sauce, and when the soles are cooked, take away care- fully the slices of pork fat and the lump of bread, and into the space pour the tomato sauce. Serve in the same dish in which it is cooked. 50.—Soles “ a la Parisienne.” Place some fillets of sole in a stewpan; sprinkle over them some chopped parsley and onion, and pepper and salt; pour over some hot butter. Cook the soles on a tolerably hot fire, taking care that they do not burn or stick to the saucepan. Dish them up with an Italian sauce over them. 51.—Soles “ a la Colbert.” When fried either whole or in fillets, place lumps of maitre d’hotel butter tastefully arranged on the fish. 52.—Baked Soles. Butter a baking dish; on this place some very thin slices of onion, then upon this a whole sole orFISH. 29 filleted soles; upon this pour a little white wine or cider; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Bake them till cooked, and serve them in the same dish. 53.—Sole Nonnande, or Sole “ au Gratin.” Place on a flat dish several lumps of butter; sprinkle some very finely chopped parsley. Place on this a good-sized sole, then around some mushrooms ^ndjoyafceJS'-; add some more parsley, salt and pepper o taste ; then pour over a breakfast-cupful of slightly thickened gravy, in which you have previously mixed 1 wineglassful of sherry or white wine, 2 tablespoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup, 1 or 2 pounded anchovies. Bake half an hour to 40 minutes. Have some of the same gravy at hand to baste with and prevent it drying at the top. To make a sole “ au gratin ” you proceed as above, but sprinkle raspings of bread under and above, and finish by placing some lumps of butter on the top. You also use unthickened gravy. N.B.—Mussels are used in this dish, either as well as or in place of oysters. Another way.—Wipe the sole well; brush it over with egg; sprinkle it with finely chopped parsley, mixed with fine bread-crumbs and seasoned with pepper and salt. Now melt some butter (4 ounces is sufficient for a 2 pound sole); pour it over the sole very gently, so as not to remove the bread-crumbs and30 WHOLESOME COOKERY. parsley. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Have ready in saucepan about a quarter of a pint of good gravy, in which you have put in a little lemon- juice, 1 spoonful of ketchup, 1 wineglassful of sherry. Then remove the sole to another dish, and add the liquor from the fish to this sauce. Simmer it all together for a few minutes and pour it round the sole. It is a great improvement to this dish to add mush- rooms or oysters, or both, and mussels if liked. 54.—Soles “a la Orly.” Sprinkle pepper and salt over the fillets, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, and leave them on one side. Put the bones and trimmings of the soles in a saucepan, with white wine, pepper, salt, and a few herbs; stew for half an hour, then strain. Flour the soles well, fry them dry, and serve with the sauce they were stewed in and strained. 55.—Whitings “a la Orly.” Dress them exactly as the soles. 56.—Fillets of Whiting and Mushrooms. Take some large whitings and divide them into fillets; place them at the bottom of a stewpan, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, pour over some31 FISH. hot butter and lemon-juice. When half cooked, turn them over carefully and cook on the other side; then take them out, put them to drain. Then into the sauce put some slices of truffles or mushrooms, and stew them ; add a little butter if necessary. Dish up the fish with the mushrooms and fried sippets. N.B.—Soles may be cooked in this way. 57.—Baked Whitings. Butter a dish; spread on this butter some finely chopped parsley, and a little onion, salt, and a little nutmeg; then place the whitings (boned whitings are preferable). Pour some hot butter over them, then equal quantities of white wine and stock. Put this dish in the oven, or on the top of your stove, with a cover over. When half cooked, turn the fish over carefully. When quite cooked, pour the sauce into a saucepan without disturbing the fish; add some butter and flour; simmer till thick, then add pepper and some lemon-juice. Pour the sauce back over the fish and serve in the dish the whitings are cooked in. 58.—Buttered Whitings. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the whitings, flour them thoroughly on both sides, place some butter on a gratin dish, lay the whitings upon it, and put them into a hot oven. Let them cook for someWHOLESOME COOKERY. 32 minutes, then turn them carefully. Squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. The whitings must be a rich gold colour, and the butter brown, not black. Mackerels, herrings, soles, filleted haddocks, etc., can be cooked in this manner. 58a.—Broiled Whitings. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and pour over a little oil. Leave them for an hour or two, then broil them before the fire; turn them frequently; serve over them any sauce liked. 59.—Cod “ a la Creme.” Boil a nice piece of cod, either fresh cod or very slightly salted, in boiling water. Drain it and cut into fillets. Blend 3 or 4 ounces of butter with flour, pepper, and nutmeg (salt, if the cod used is not salted); let it thicken over the fire, stirring all the time. Now add half a pint of cream and some very finely chopped parsley. Stir carefully for five minutes; then put in the fillets of cod and simmer gently for 10 minutes; then serve. 60.—Bouille a Baisse of Cod. Put in a saucepan some chopped leeks or onions ; add some oil or butter; let it colour; then add a quart of water, a sprig or two of parsley, a bay leaf,33 Fisn. pepper, salt, and pinch of saffron, and some whole peeled potatoes. When the potatoes are nearly cooked, put in four slices of cod, and boil it till cooked. Dish the cod and potatoes up on one dish; strain the gravy on to some nice slices of French roll into another dish, and serve the contents of both dishes together. Slightly salted cod may be cooked as above. 61.—Eouille a Baisse. Take a variety of fishes, such as mullet, whiting, soles, haddock—a small lobster if shell-fish is liked; cut them in pieces. Put in a wide and tolerably shallow saucepan a wine-glass of oil, 1 chopped onion, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic; toss all this together. Then place your pieces of fish in; add some salt to taste, a few slices of lemon, a few slices of tomato, a pinch of powdered saffron, a glass of white light wine ; add enough water to cover the fish; boil up quickly on a hot fire. The fish ought to be cooked in a quarter of an hour, and the gravy sufficiently reduced. Take the fish out, strain the sauce, put it back on the fire ; add a spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and a very little flour (not enough to make the sauce thick, but enough to prevent it being quite thin); place some slices of French roll in a deep dish; pour the sauce over. Place the fish in another dish, and serve the two dishes together. N.B.—Of course the true bouille a baisse is made DWHOLESOME COOKERY. 34 from the fishes found in the Mediterranean, and those who want to eat it in perfection must go to Roubion’s, at Marseilles; but a very good attempt at bouille k baisse can be eaten in Fngland if the above directions are followed. 62.—Middle Cut of Cod. Make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, parsley, onion chopped very fine, pepper, salt, and butter; moisten with an egg or milk, cook it slightly, and put it in the open part of cod; fix with skewers; rub the fish with a beaten-up egg; strew over bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt. Bake it, and serve, with or without oyster sauce. 63.—Indian Way of Cooking Fish. Fillets of sole, mackerel, haddock, or mullet. Rub the fillet with curry paste and salt; fry it of a light brown; grate some cocoa-nut; pour a teacupful of boil- ing water over, mash it well together, and strain. Fry some sliced onion in the same butter the fish was fried in; put a little flour; add the cocoa-nut water, a little vinegar, salt and pepper. Stir till done and thick. Put in the fillets just to warm, not cook, and serve up. If cocoa-nut is not at hand, use prepared cocoa-nut. 1 tablespoonful of cocoa-nut and 2 ounces of butter is sufficient for 1 ordinary sized sole.FISH. 35 64.—Baked Fish. Split the fish in half; take off the head and middle bone; put it on a dish with a lump of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of water; then cover the fish about a quarter of an inch thick with a cooked stuffing made of bread-crumbs, shallots, pepper and salt, one or two yolks of eggs; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs; add here and there some small lumps of butter. This recipe is good for sardines. A teaspoonful of rum added to the stuffing is by some considered an improvement. 65.—Skate “ an Beurre Noir.” When the skate is boiled, drain it well and serve with brown butter. To boil the skate, lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme, sliced onion, carrot, sprig of parsley, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Let it boil up for a couple of minutes, and then simmer quietly until done. 66.—Skate “ a ITtalienne.” When the skate is prepared, boil it in some milk, with a little garlic, a lump of butter, a pinch of flour, 2 cloves, thyme, bay leaf, pepper, and salt. The skate will be cooked in a very short time. Take it out andWHOLESOME COOKERY. 36 let it drain. Cook the sauce some little time longer, and strain it. Have a few button onions boiled and drained. Take a baking-dish; sprinkle some grated cheese on the bottom of it, place the skate upon it, place the onions round, and some fried sippets; pour the sauce over; sprinkle with a little more cheese. Bake about 10 to 20 minutes, and serve. 67.—To use Cold Fish. 1 ounce of butter, 1 chopped shallot or a little onion, chopped parsley, 1 teacupful of stock, a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Put the butter, parsley, and shallot in the stewpan with the stock; boil 5 minutes; pour in the milk or cream; add the lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. When nicely stewed, put in the fish. Only leave it in suffi- cient time to warm it. Dish up and garnish with fried sippets. 68.—Fish “ au Gratin’’ (Remains of Cold Fish). Remains of any cold fish. Break it in small pieces, take away all the bones; put it in a flat baking-dish, with some white sauce or remains of any fish sauce you have ; sprinkle over with bread-crumbs and some small bits of butter; bake about 20 minutes. Serve in the same dish in which it was cooked.37 FISH. 69.—Flemish Mackerel. When the mackerel are prepared, bone them and fill the space with butter, chopped shallot, parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; wrap each mackerel up in a well-buttered paper; put them to cook in the oven. When cooked, take the papers off and dish up hot. A good-sized mackerel may take about 25 minutes, but time will depend on the size of the fish and the heat of the oven, which ought to be mode- rately hot. 70.—Mackerel “ an Beurre Noir.” Open; bone; spread a little butter, pepper, and salt over them, and broil them before the fire or cook in the oven. Melt some butter in a saucepan; when it is a rich brown, add some lemon-juice and serve it over the fish. Must be sent to table quite hot. 70a.—Mackerel “ a l’Allemande.” Prepared as above, but served with a mustard sauce over. 70b.—Herrings “ au Beurre Noir.” Prepared and served exactly like the mackerel. 71.—Mackerel “a la Maitre d’Hotel.” Open and bone the mackerel; pour a little oil over it, and sprinkle some chopped parsley; leave it for halfWHOLESOME COOKERY. 38 an hour, then broil it before the fire or cook it in the oven. When cooked, dish it up at once with a few lumps of cold maitre d’hotel butter. 71a.—Herrings “ a la Maitre d’Hotel.” Dress the herrings exactly as the mackerel. 72.—Fried Smelts. Dip them in milk for a few minutes, drain them, flour them well on both sides, and fry a pale gold colour. Serve with any sauce liked. 73.—Small Fish. Take a sheet of writing paper, butter or grease it well, lay it on a tin; place two or three small fish (or pieces of fish), bread-crumbs, parsley, onion, anchovy (if liked, a little grated lemon), small piece of butter; fold the paper up neatly, and bake from 15 to 30 minutes, depending on the size of the fish. Serve up in the paper. 74.—Trout “ au Bleu.” Boil the trout in equal quantities of stock and red wine; when cooked, put it in a deep dish, and pour over it the liquor it was cooked in. Next day take it out and dish it up, decorate it with parsley, and serve with cruet of oil and vinegar. I39 FISH. 75.—Trout “ a la Hussarde.” Beat some butter ancl chopped herbs together; place it inside the prepared trout very carefully, so as not to break them; rub the trout with a little oil or butter, pepper, and salt; broil them before the fire (or cook in the oven). Serve with a poivrade sauce. 76.—Fillets of Salmon. Prepare some small fillets of salmon; take the skin off; flatten each fillet with the blade of a knife dipped in cold water. Melt some butter in a stewpan ; place the fillets side by side carefully in it, sprinkle with pepper and salt, toss them up till cooked. In another saucepan have some rich white stock; when it is hot, add to it the butter the salmon was cooked in, then some finely chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little nut- meg and lemon-j uice; stew for a few minutes, then thicken with one or two yolks of eggs. Dish up the fillets and place the sauce over. 77.—Salmon “ au Bleu.” Split the salmon and place inside some butter mixed with flour; sprinkle over it some pepper, salt, chopped onion, and parsley; place it in some stock, to which add some claret; let it boil quickly for a few minutes, and then simmer carefully until done. Dish it up on a40 WHOLESOME COOKERY. d’oyley with fried parsley, and serve with it any sauce liked. Is good cold. 78.—Grilled Salmon. Slices of salmon about 1 inch thick. Rub them over with salad oil, season with pepper and salt, place on a gridiron over a clear fire; turn the salmon every five minutes, baste occasionally with a little oil or butter. Serve with Italian, mayonnaise, or other sauce. N.B.—The slices of salmon can be also done on a flat baking-dish in the oven, care being taken to turn them frequently ; of course, in this case, butter or oil must be placed in the baking-dish first. 79.—Fillets of Eel “ a la Ravigote.” Cut the eels into fillets about 3 inches long. Melt some butter in a saucepan; add some onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley, pepper and salt, water or stock, and a little vinegar. Boil the eels in this; then take them out, drain them, and, when they are cold, egg and bread- crumb them; fry them, and serve with a ravigote sauce round them. 80.—“ Suffren ” Eel. Place the eel in a stewpan, lay over it fillets of anchovy and slices of gherkin, cover with some stock, and simmei' it gently until cooked; then lift it on to a41 FISIT. dish carefully, and cover it with a tomato sauce made rather hot with cayenne. 81.—Eel “ a la Minute.” Cut the eel in pieces about 2 or 3 inches long, boil it from 10 to 15 minutes (according to its thick- ness) in salt and water; take it out. drain it, and serve it with a hot maitre d’hotel butter over it and fried potatoes around. 82.—Baked Gurnet. Stuff the fish with bread-crumbs, an egg, a little chopped parsley, shallot or onion; place it in a baking- dish ; pour round a glass of broth or stock; place over a little dripping, oil, or butter, a few bread-crumbs, and parsley. Bake about an hour. 83.—Turbot “ au Gratin.” Take some previously cooked turbot cut in fillets, warm it up in some white sauce, then place it all on a baking-dish; sprinkle it over with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan, pour over some hot butter, and bake in the oven until it is a pale brown colour. 84.—Baked Turbot. Pour a little hot butter over your turbot; place over some chopped parsley and other herbs, pepper,WHOLESOME COOKERY. 42 salt, and mace; leave it thus for half an hour. Lift it on to a baking-dish as well as the above ingredients; egg and bread-crumb it well on both sides, bake in the oven, and serve with any sauce liked. 85.—Red Mullet. Put 2 ounces of butter in a dish, with 1 or 2 pounded anchovies; let it melt; add pepper; lay the fish in it, place a few small bits of butter on the top, put it in the oven, and bake half an hour. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. 86.—Sardines. Take the middle bone out; make a stuffing with bread soaked in milk, 1 yolk of egg, salt and pepper, chopped sorrel or parsley; stew it together to a paste. Cover one sardine thickly, place another on the top; tie them and fry them or grill them. Untie them before dishing up.( M ) SAUCES. 87.—French Melted Butter. 1 heaped-up tablespoonful of flour, half a pint of water, 1J ounces of butter, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice Blend the flour in a little of the cold water; boil up the rest of the water, and when boiling stir in the flour; then add the butter. Stir all tbe time; then add the lemon-juice. N.B.—The cook must not guess at her quantities or she will spoil her sauce. N.B.—Two tablespoonfuls of cream added to the above sauce at the last moment will make the sauce a very superior one. 88.—Melted Butter Sauce “ au Beurre.” Made like melted butter, using broth or stock instead of water. Good for vegetables or fish. 89.—Walnut Sauce. Make a melted butter sauce; at the last put in some chopped or pounded pickled walnuts, and simmer a few minutes together before serving. N.B.—This sauce is also excellent with a boiled leg of mutton.44: WHOLESOME COOKERY. 90. —Curry Sauce. 2 ounces chopped onion, 2 ounces butter, 1 table- spoonful curry powder, 2 ounces of sour milk. Stew at least 20 minutes. 91. —Cream Sauce. 1J ounce of butter, 1 heaped-up teaspoonful of flour, a pinch of parsley, ditto of shallot, a very little grated nutmeg, half a pint of cream (or cream and milk). Blend the flour in a little milk; boil it up with the rest of the ingredients for a quarter of an hour. Stir all the time, and be careful to keep it smooth. 92.—Swiss Sauce (for Fish or Vegetables). Half a dessert-spoonful of flour, juice of 1 lemon, pepper and salt, 3 gills of cream. Blend the flour in the smallest quantity of butter necessary, boil up the cream, stir in the flour and pepper and salt, boil 10 minutes, stir in the lemon-juice, and serve. 93.—Tomato Sauce. Place in a saucepan a slice of ham, some trimmings of meat, slices of onion and carrot, a small piece of celery, a couple of cloves; place on the top of these some tomatoes. Stew on a slow fire, stirring frequently withSAUCES. 45 a wooden spoon. When thoroughly cooked, add a good pinch of flour and some stock. Stew again for about 20 minutes; pass through a sieve. Must be as thick as cream. Another way.—Stew the tomatoes gently for an hour or more with pepper, salt, parsley, onion, thyme, and a bay leaf; pass through a hair sieve. Blend some flour with butter, add it gradually to the sauce, then add some lemon-juice to taste, and serve hot. 94.—Spanish Sauce. 2 slices of ham, 2 slices of veal, 2 carrots, and 2 onions sliced. Let this stew on the fire; then add equal quantities of stock or white wine, 1 clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, 1 bay leaf, a couple of cloves. Simmer altogether for 3 or 4 hours on a slow fire; thicken with flour and butter; skim and pass through a sieve. 95.—Ravigote Sauce (Hot). Chop some herbs, such as chervil, tarragon, parsley, and chives, very fine; place in a saucepan with some good stock, a little white wine, pepper, and salt; stew gently; add a little flour blended in butter, and a small quantity of lemon-juice; stir till thick, and serve.46 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 96.—Ravigote Sauce (Cold). Chop some herbs of all sorts, capers, anchovies, all very small; add the yolk of an egg, then oil very gently, as you would for a mayonnaise; then vinegar to taste, also poured in gently so as not to turn the sauce; at the last stir in enough mustard for the sauce to be fairly hot. 97.—Green Sauce. 2 slices of ham, 2 slices of veal. Put them in a saucepan and let them stew gently in their own gravy; then add a little stock and white wine, and allow all to simmer for some minutes. Strain. Now take the juice of some herbs, such as tarragon, chervil, parsley, spinach, etc., by pounding them in a mortar. Add this juice to the above sauce; flavour with pepper and salt, thicken with 4 yolks of eggs, add the juice of 1 lemon. 98.—Bechamel Sauce. Place in a saucepan 1 ounce of butter, chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, shallot, enough flour to thicken; stew for a few minutes; add 1 pint of cream (or cream and milk), pepper, salt, and nutmeg; stir it over the fire until thick; pass through a hair sieve. 98a. Sauce “ala Bechamel” (Bechamel Sauce). Proceed exactly as above, but use cream and gravy in equal quantities, instead of cream or cream and milk.47 SAUCES. 99.—Anchovy Sauce. Pound some anchovies very smooth; place them on the fire in some good gravy or melted butter sauce; flavour with pepper, and, if liked, other spices. 100.—Sauce “ Poivrade.” 1 teacupful of ordinary vinegar, 2 ounces of butter, parsley, bay leaf, a little onion, thyme, pepper, and salt. Place all this on the fire, and stew gently for an hour; now thicken the sauce with some flour, add 1 or 2 teacupfuls of good stock; stew again for some time, strain, and serve. 101.—“Sauce Raifort” (Horse-Radish Sauce). Grate some horse-radish very fine; boil some cream, salt it to taste, and pour it over the horse-radish. 102.—Italian Sauce. Put 2 ounces of butter in a saucepan, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 of shallot, 1 of mushrooms, half a pint of thin white wine. Stew for an hour gently. Now thicken; add a few tablespoonfuls of very good stock, and stew again. Skim very carefully; strain; put it to steam in a jar in a saucepan of hot water.48 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 103.—Mustard Sauce. Half a tcaspoonful of English mustard, 2J tea- spoonfuls of French mustard, 1 teaspoonful of flour, one-third of a teaspoonful of sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, salt, 1 teaspoonful of strong vinegar. Now melt 2 ounces of butter in a stewpan; add the other ingre- dients; simmer gently, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. This sauce must be very smooth and of the consistency of cream. If it should be too thick, add a teaspoonful of water or vinegar. 104.—Yellow Sauce for Fricassees. Put in a saucepan a lump (2 ounces) of butter; when it is melted, add 1 tablespoonful of flour, blended with a little milk. Turn all the time so as to mis it in well, but clo not let it get brown. Then add, very gradually and still turning, half a pint of hot milk and half a pint of white stock, salt, pepper, parsley, a little onion, and a couple of carrots. Put in your white meats and let them stew very gently until done. Keep the lid of the saucepan tightly, on. When cooked, strain through a hair sieve; add 1 or 2 yolks of eggs; flavour with lemon-juice. 105.—Sauce “Kobert.” Chop some onion very fine; toss it over the fire in butter, then add some flour. Cook it for a few minutes:49 SA UCES. add a little stock and vinegar to taste; cook for 20 minutes or more. Strain it; put it back on the fire, and add a little mustard to it, and salt to flavour. 106.—Sauce “ Remoulade ” Is made with olive oil, vinegar, mustard, chopped onion, parsley, pepper and salt, all thoroughly mixed together. 107.—Gherkin Sauce. Fry some finely chopped herbs in 1 ounce of butter; add stock; thicken with flour, stew till thick ; add some finely chopped gherkins, pepper, and salt; stew again for a few minutes, and serve. 108.—Sauce “ Melangee.” Chop an equal quantity of onion and mushrooms, also some parsley. Fry this in 1 ounce of butter; add some flour to thicken, then pepper, salt, and vinegar to taste. Stew for about a quarter of an hour or more. 109.— Sauce “aux Militaires.” Place in a saucepan 1 slice of ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of strong stock, 1 glass of white wine, half a head of celery cut in small pieces, some tarragon (garlic ?), chervil, thyme, bay leaf, parsley, shallot, and half a lemon in slices. Place the saucepan by the side of the E50 WHOLESOME COOKERY. fire, and stew gently till reduced to half the original quantity. Strain, and serve over roasts. Simpler Method.—1 glass of red wine, 1 glass of stock, 1 pounded anchovy, some chopped shallot. Stew gently for some time; strain it; add some gravy from under the roast, the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 110.—Sauce “ Chateaubriand.” Dissolve some glaze (glace de viande) in light white wine; add a thickening of flour and butter; flavour with pepper and salt; stew for some time. Beat up a little butter, chopped parsley, chopped chervil, nutmeg, and lemon-juice; stir it into the sauce, and serve. 111.—Gothic Sauce. Pound up 7 yolks of hard-boiled eggs; stir gradually in, while you are pounding, 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls of oil. Add some cayenne pepper or a couple of pounded chilies, salt, and a pinch of saffron; then stir in 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Pass through a hair sieve and serve. 112.—Soubise Sauce or Puree. Put some onions to soak for 10 minutes in boiling water. Peel them; cut them in halves or quarters. Put them into a small saucepan, with a lump of fresh butter; simmer very slowly together until the onions are quite cooked; add salt to taste; thicken with flour61 SAUCES. or flour and fine bread-crumbs, and add cream or milk. Pass through a sieve, and serve with anything liked. Must be quite thick and smooth (some people like a pinch of sugar added). 113.—Celery Sauce. Boil the celery in a little salt and water; pass it through a sieve. Put some butter in a saucepan, then the celery, a little flour and fine bread-crumbs, and cream or gravy; simmer together, and serve. 114.—Sauce “ au Yin de Madere ” (Madeira Sauce). Boil a small piece of glaze (glace de viande) in some Madeira wine, with pepper; make a thickening of flour and butter; stir it into the sauce, and simmer 10 minutes. Skim, strain, and serve. 115.—Fine Herb Sauce. Boil in some salted water some spinach, sorrel, chervil, a leek, and a little mint, and then chop them up very fine. Now place in a saucepan a small piece of fat bacon; when it is melted, add a thin slice of ham, an onion, a shallot; stir it over the fire, then add 2 or 3 pounded anchovies, a little chopped parsley, an ounce or two of butter, and the cooked herbs. Now add some bread-crumbs soaked in milk, 1 or 2 table-52 WHOLESOME COOKERY. spoonfuls of oil, a little stock or water. Stew from 10 to 20 minutes, strain, and serve. 116.—Sauce “Bearnaise.” Peel 6 or 7 shallots ; put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of vinegar; simmer very gently, till you have extracted all the essences; strain it. Now have 6 yolks of eggs and some rich clear gravy— meat essence, in fact. Place the yolks in a jar, and the jar in a saucepan of water; stir the eggs gently with a wooden spoon; when they begin to thicken, add the gravy; then very gently add the juice of 2 lemons, then the above essence of shallot, pepper, and salt. Stir all very carefully, simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. 117. —Nunes Sauce. Cut some onions in very thin slices, and stew them very slowly in butter; blend a pinch of flour in a little stock or gravy; add pepper and salt; cook it with the onion and butter; add 3 or 4 yolks of eggs carefully, and serve with steaks, chops, etc. Must be as thick as custard. 118. —Garlic Sauce. Put the crumb of a French roll to soak for a few minutes in a little milk; then press all the milk out.SAUCES. 53 Put the crumb in a mortar with 3 cloves of garlic, 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, 6 Jordan almonds, peeled. Pound all quite smooth in a mortar, and stir in some oil The oil must be poured drop by drop to prevent the sauce turning. Eat with boiled fish or plain boiled vegetables. If liked, add a little lemon-juice to the sauce. 119.—German Pudding Sauce. Dissolve 1J ounce of sugar in 2 glasses of white wine; when quite hot, stir in the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs; whisk it up until quite frothy, and pour hot over the pudding. Whilst you whisk, keep the saucepan well to the side of the fire, as if this sauce boils it will curdle. 119a.—Vegetable and Meat Sauce (Sauce faute de Beurre). %Put into a jar 1 or 2 ounces of fresh butter and 1 or 2 tablespoonsfuls of salad oil. Take 2 or 3 yolks of eggs, and beat them up with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice. Put the jar in a stewpan of boiling water, and steam it. When the oil and butter are well mixed together, pour in the yolks very gently and stirring all the time, as you would a custard, and continue until it thickens properly. For a change, this sauce is very good with a little mustard added to it.54 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 120.—Sweet Swiss Sauce. 1 gill of cream, 1 wine-glass of sherry, half a dessert- spoonful of flour (blended with the sherry). Boil the cream; then stir in the flour and sherry, and add 1 dessert-spoonful of castor sugar, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; boil together a quarter of an hour. 121.—Brown Butter. Put some butter in a small fryingpan, and let it melt until it is a rich brown colour. Be careful that it does not burn. Pour it over the fish or vegetable it is intended for; then pour a few drops of vinegar or lemon-juice into the pan, and pour that also over your dish of fish or vegetable. 122.—Anchovy Butter. Beat up some anchovy paste and butter together until the butter is a pink colour; keep to use on steaks or fried fish. A simple and quick anchovy toast may be made by spreading some on hot buttered toast. 123.—Horse-radish Butter. Grated-horse radish ; add salt to taste; pound up with butter. Good on broiled steaks.55 SAUCES. 124.—Maitre d’Hotel Butter. Knead some very finely chopped parsley in with some fresh butter; add pepper, salt, and a little lemon- juice. If required hot, melt it over the fire, but do not let it boil. 125. —Ravigote Butter. Scald some parsley, tarragon, chervil, chives, and shallot; press out all the water, and chop them up very fine. Now pound them up with two anchovies and some butter. Pass through a sieve. 126. —Tarragon Butter. Chop some tarragon very fine; beat it up with a lump of butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Serve over mackerel, soles, etc. v 127.—Devil Mixture. Mix well on a plate a teaspoonful of French or English mustard, half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, 2 of salad oil. Cover the meats well before grilling. 128.—Brandy Butter (for Sweets). Beat 1 teacupful of castor sugar with half a tea- cupful of fresh butter. When beaten to a cream, addWHOLESOME CO OREL Y. 5G a tablespoonful of brandy and a little essence of nutmeg. Put it on ice until required. N.B.—Rum can be used instead of brandy. Some people whisk two whites of eggs to the above. I do not recommend it.( 67 ) VEGETABLES, etc. 129.—Plain Fried Potatoes. Peel them, wash them, slice them, and drain them; when perfectly dry, put them in boiling fat and fry them a pale gold colour. Sprinkle with salt, and serve at once. ISO.—Potatoes “ a la Lyonnaise.” Make a thick soubise sauce. Boil the potatoes; peel them, and cut them in slices. Pour the soubise sauce over them and serve. 131.—Puree of Potatoes. Boil and peel the potatoes; pass them through a wire sieve; put them into a saucepan, with a lump of butter, pepper, salt to taste. Stir in enough milk to make the purde smooth. Boil it up once, being careful to stir from the bottom, and serve.58 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 132.—Potatoes “ au Gratia.” Boil the potatoes, then peel them and pound them smooth. Now place a layer of the potatoes on a baking- dish, about a quarter of an inch thick ; then sprinkle over a little grated Parmesan cheese, a few very small lumps of butter, then more potato, cheese, and butter, until you have used up all the potato. Sprinkle a little more grated Parmesan cheese on the top, and a few lumps of butter. Bake in the oven or before the fire. 133.—Potatoes “ a la Maitre d’Hotel.” Boil the potatoes in water, then peel them. Put some butter in a saucepan, with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Toss in the potatoes; add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve at once. 1 pound of pota- toes will require three-quarters of an ounce of butter. 133a.—Tossed Potatoes. Three-quarters of a pound of small new potatoes, all the same size. Scrape them, wash them, and drain them perfectly dry. Put 1 ounce of dripping or butter in a saucepan; place it on a brisk fire; when it is quite hot, put in the potatoes. Keep the lid on, and cook them until they are a deep gold colour. Toss the saucepan every few minutes while they are IVEGETABLES, ETC. 59 cooking. When cooked, drain off the fat that may be left, sprinkle some salt over them, and serve them quite hot. 133b.—Faverges Potatoes. Slice some potatoes; put a good-sized lump of butter in a saucepan; put in the potatoes and cover the saucepan. Simmer them gently until they are cooked. Take out, sprinkle over with salt, and serve. The potatoes will he a pale yellow colour, and will not be dry. The butter can be used many times again. 134.—Potato Salad. Cook the potatoes, peel and slice them, and dress them while they are hot with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, a few sliced gherkins, and anchovies. Serve when cold. If liked, dress them with cream and lemon-juice in place of oil and vinegar. 135.—Souffle Potatoes. Peel the potatoes; cut them downwards in slices half an inch thick; dry them in a cloth. Have a sauce- pan of fat almost boiling; put in the potatoes and let them cook about 10 minutes; take them out, drain them; let them get nearly cold. Boil the fat up again, and when quite boiling, put in the potatoesWHOLESOME COOKERY. ture smooth but not liquid, then 3 yolks of eggs well GO and cook them about 4 minutes. The potatoes ought to come out perfectly dry, a pale gold colour, and very much swollen—in fact, about twice the size they were when they went in. Sprinkle them with salt; serve at once. 136.—Potatoes “ a la Creme.” Boil some potatoes, peel them, and slice them. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, with salt, pepper, flour to thicken, a little nutmeg, chopped parsley, and small piece of shallot; stir in some cream, and con- tinue stirring till the sauce boils; then put in the sliced potatoes. Simmer a couple of minutes, and serve. 137.—Parisian Potatoes. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, with a finely chopped onion ; when a pale brown colour, add a glass of water and some peeled raw potatoes, pepper, salt, and a little chopped thyme and parsley. Simmer slowly till cooked. 138.—Italian Potatoes. Boil 1 pound of potatoes, then peel them and pound them; add 3 ounces of butter, a little bread-crumb soaked in milk ; add sufficient milk to make the mix-VEGETABLES, ETC. 61 beaten, ancl 2 whites of eggs beaten to a froth. Place this high up on a baking-dish, smooth it with a knife, pour over some hot butter, and bake it in the oven. Must be served immediately it is cooked. 139.—Potatoes and White Sauce. Boil the potatoes, and peel them and cut them in slices; at once arrange them on the dish and pour over a white sauce. 140.—Cauliflower “ au Gratin.” Boil a cauliflower about two-thirds; divide it into branches. Make a melted butter sauce, into which you mix some grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheese. Place a layer of cauliflower on a baking-dish, then cover with sauce; then another layer of cauliflower and another layer of the sauce; sprinkle a little cheese over the whole, then a few bread-crumbs; pour a little hot butter over the top, and bake. N.B.—Unless the cauliflower is divided into layers it will not be good, as the sauce must cover every portion. It is also a great mistake to simply sprinkle cheese over the top; some must be mixed in the sauce too. For those who do not like cheese, a cauliflower # can be prepared in this manner with a plain melted butter, leaving out the cheese.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 62 141.—Cauliflower Fritters. Boil some cauliflowers about two-thirds; divide them into pieces of equal size; dip each piece in a thick yellow or white sauce; put them on one side to get cold. Then take each piece with a spoon, dip carefully into frying batter, so that it is entirely covered. Fry in boiling fat, and serve with fried parsley. N.B.—The cauliflower can, for a change, be dipped in a little oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, instead of the sauce, and allowed to become cold, before frying as above. 142.—Scrambled Cauliflowers. When the cauliflowers are boiled and drained, divide them into branches, and toss them up for a few minutes in a saucepan with butter, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Serve with fried sippets. 143.—Tossed Cauliflowers. Divide the cauliflowers into branches; scald them for 2 or 3 minutes, then drain them and boil them in stock, with a little nutmeg. When cooked, drain them. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, add some chopped parsley, toss the cauliflowers in for a few minutes, and serve them at once.63 VEGETABLES, ETC. 144.—Cabbage “ a la Creme.” Halve a white cabbage; cook it in boiling water with salt until it is two-thirds cooked; take it out and drain it, then cut it into small pieces. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with salt and pepper; stir in some flour; then add a little cream, and finish cooking the cabbage in this, and serve all together. 145.—Cabbage “au Gratin.” White-heart cabbage prepared as the cauliflower au gratin is good, but the cabbage must be very thoroughly boiled. 146.—Puree of Spinach. After the spinach is cooked, pass it through a sieve ; put it back in the saucepan; season with pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, butter, and gravy. Stew for a few minutes, and serve with fried sippets. 146a.—Fried Brussels Sprouts. When boiled and drained, fry .them in butter for a few minutes, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 64 146b.—Dressed Brussels Sprouts. When they are cooked, drain them thoroughly, put them in a stewpan with some white sauce or brown gravy, toss them up a few minutes, and serve. 147. —Dressed Endives. Pick to pieces 3 endives; wash them well in 3 different waters; drain them, throw them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and boil them on a quick fire till they are very tender. Put them to drain in a colander, and squeeze out all the moisture. Chop them very fine; place them in a saucepan with 1 ounce of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; stir them over the fire for about 20 minutes; add a little cream, and dish them up with fried sippets. 148. —Puree of Sorrel. Prepare the sorrel in the same manner as spinach ; boil it; change the water three times during the boil- ing ; drain it and chop it, and pass through a sieve. Put it back on the fire, with a little flour, milk, pepper, and salt; simmer for twenty minutes; add a little butter or cream, and serve with fried sippets, or eggs poached, fried, or hard boiled. 149.—Vegetable Macedoine. Take any vegetable that may be in season at the time, such as carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes,VEGETABLES, ETC. (io small onions, asparagus tops, branches of cauliflower, cucumbers, peas, French beans, etc. Boil them sepa- rately, drain them, toss them up in a yellow sauce, and serve. 150.—Onions “a la Creme.” Have small and young onions ; cook them in boil- ing water with salt; drain them. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan; stir in a little flour, pepper, and salt; then put in the onions. Add a little cream ; cook together for a few minutes, and stir all the time. Serve. 151.—Onions “au Jus.” Cook some young onions for a quarter of an hour in boiling water and salt; drain them. Blend some flour and butter over the fire until they are pale brown; add a little red wine and gravy. Now put in the onions, with a bunch of thyme, parsley, a couple of cloves, and a bay leaf. Simmer all together until the onions are quite cooked; strain the sauce. Dish up the onions with the sauce, and add some fried sippets, a few capers, and a couple of chopped anchovies. 152.—Hashed Leeks. Take off the outside green part of the leeks; wash the leeks well in hot water, cut them in two and boil them, then drain them and press out all the water; F '■»06 WHOLESOME COOKERY. chop them up small. Put a lump of butter in the saucepan, then the leeks, a pinch of flour, pepper, salt, and a little cream. Simmer together for a few minutes; then stir in a couple of yolks of eggs, and dish up with fried sippets. The leeks ought to be of about the con- sistency of dressed spinach. 153.—Leeks whole. After they have been washed and boiled, simmer them whole in any brown or white sauce liked. 154.—Italian Artichokes. Take the underparts of some French artichokes; put them in a saucepan with some butter, white wine, a little stock, and lemon-juice. When cooked, drain them, and serve up with Italian sauce over. N.B.—The preserved artichokes (fonds d’artichauds) are very good for this purpose; they will require very little cooking. 154a.—Stuffed Artichokes. Make a savoury stuffing with some chopped herbs, bread-crumbs, mushroom, pounded anchovy, a yolk or two of hard-boiled egg. Make this into a paste by cooking it in a little cream or gravy; fill the under- parts of some artichokes, and put them to simmer in a yellow or bechamel sauce. Serve up with the sauce and some fried sippets.67 VEGETABLES, ETC. 155.—Artichokes “ a la Creme.” Boil the underparts of French artichokes and serve them in a melted butter sauce, into which you have put some chopped parsley, some cream, or the yolk of an egg. 156.—Artichoke Fritters. Take the underparts of French artichokes and boil them; dip them into a thick white sauce; let them get cold; then dip each piece in frying batter, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. 157.—Artichoke and Tomato Salad. Underpart of French artichokes boiled; slices of raw tomato. Mix some tarragon, chervil, oil, pepper, salt, and vinegar together; dip the artichokes and tomatoes in separately, and lay them alternately in a salad bowL Pour the dressing over. O 158.—Puree of Artichokes. Boil the underparts of French artichokes in water, into which you have blended some flour. When cooked, mash them well; pass through a hair sieve; put them back in a saucepan with pepper, salt, butter, and cream; toss up a few minutes and serve.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 63 159.—Glazed Jerusalem Artichokes. Wash, peel, and cut into uniform pieces some Jeru- salem artichokes. Put them into a stewpan; pour a little hot butter over them; season with pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and lemon-juice; moisten them with a little stock or water. Put the lid on, and let them simmer on a slow fire for half an hour, during which time they ought to become a deep yellow. Boil them in their glaze; dish them up with an Italian sauce over them. 160.—Rice and Pumpkin. Cut a pumpkin into pieces; put it into an earthen jar, with some salt, an onion, a couple of cloves, small piece of celery, and a good lump of butter; add some water; put on the lid. Cook slowly, either in the oven or by the side of the fire. When cooked, pass it through a sieve. Now boil some rice; when two-thirds cooked, add the pumpkin to it, and finish cooking them together. Add a little cream and pepper at the last, and, if necessary, more salt. 161.—Salsifis Fritters. Scrape them and soak them in some water and vinegar; then boil them in plenty of water, with salt and a little flour, so as to keep them white. When cooked, drain them; then season and fry them like cauliflower fritters (141).C9 VEGETABLES, ETC. 162.—Dressed Salsifis. After they are boiled as above, dress them with maltre d’hotel butter, or yellow sauce, or melted butter. 163. —Salsifis and Cheese. After they are boiled as above, toss them up with a little melted butter and grated cheese. 164. —Celery and Sauce. After the celery is boiled, serve it with any sauce liked. 165. —Celery Fritters. After the celery is boiled, divide it in pieces, and fry in batter like the cauliflower or salsifis. 166. —Celery “ au Jus.” After the celery is parboiled, drain it; put it in a stewpan; toss it in a little oil. Add the remains of some roast beef or mutton gravy (or a little of the pot au feu soup); add a tomato ; simmer together till the celery is quite cooked. Strain the sauce and serve it over the celery. 167—Scalloped Salsifi or Jerusalem Artichokes. Boil the vegetable till cooked, and cut it into pieces the size of an oyster. Now mix 1 ounce of70 WHOLESOME COOKERY. butter with 1 ounce of flour, a little cream, half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste; add 1 yolk of egg, a little lemon-juice. Stir the vegetable in this sauce. Put all together in a baking-dish, sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and a few very small lumps of butter, and bake about 15 to 20 minutes. N.B.—Remains of celery, or cauliflowers or leeks, are excellent cooked in this way. 168.—Cucumbers “a la Maitre d’Hotel.” Peel them, split them down in four, take out the seeds; cut them into lengths 3 inches long; put them into boiling water and salt, boil them until just tender; take them out and drain them. Then put them in a saucepan, with a lump of butter blended with flour, chopped parsley (onion if liked), pepper, and salt; toss them up for about 5 minutes, and serve very hot. 168a.—Cucumbers “ a la Poulette.” After they are boiled and drained as above, put them in a saucepan, with a little cream, or white sauce, or milk; simmer for 5 or 10 minutes; take out the cucumbers. Thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs; season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; serve over the cucumbers.71 VEGETABLES, ETC. 169.—Carrots “a la Poulette.” When the carrots are scraped, washed, and scalded, cut them into slices; boil them till cooked in hot water with a lump of butter; when cooked, drain them. Blend over the fire some butter and flour, together with pepper and salt; add some white stock, a couple of yolks of eggs, a squeeze of lemon. Toss the carrots in this, but do not let them boil, and serve. 170.—Carrots “ a la Maitre d’Hotel.” Scrape, wash, and scald the carrots in boiling water; cook them in hot water with salt and a lump of butter; when cooked, remove them, and put them to drain. Mix in a saucepan a lump of butter, chopped parsley, and a little chopped shallot, pepper, and salt. Put in the carrots; toss them up a couple of minutes, and serve them, either with or without fried sippets. 171.—Hashed Carrots. Scrape and wash some young carrots; soak them in boiling water for a few minutes; cut them into slices ; put them in a stewpan, with a lump of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, a little milk. Cook them gentty. When they are cooked, thicken the sauce with 1, 2, or 3 yolks of eggs, and serve it over the carrots. Another way.—After the carrots are prepared asWHOLESOME COOKERY. above, put them in a stewpan, with a slice of bacon, chopped parsley, chopped shallot, pepper and salt, a little stock or gravy. Cook the carrots until done; take them out; continue cooking the sauce a little longer, strain it, and serve it over the carrots. 172.—Glazed Carrots. Cut some young red carrots into round balls; boil them in boiling water for 5 minutes; take them out and drain them. Then put them in a stewpan with butter; sprinkle a little castor sugar over, and pepper and salt; add a little good meat gravy. Simmer slowly till the carrots are cooked; then boil up rapidly for a few minutes, so as to evaporate most of the gravy, and serve. 173. —Turnips “ en Poulette.” Young turnips cut into balls. Boil them for a few minutes; drain them; blend a little flour and butter in a saucepan; add some white stock; put in the turnips, and simmer them till done. Take out the turnips; thicken the sauce with butter and yolks of eggs, and serve over the turnips. 174. —Turnips “ au Gratin.” Boil the turnips; cut them in thin slices; put them in a deep baking-dish, with layers of gravy, Parmesan73 VEGETABLES, ETC. cheese, pepper, and salt. Sprinkle bread-crumbs on the top, and bake about 15 minutes. A white sauce can be used instead of brown gravy, and makes an equally good and savoury dish. 175.—Puree of Turnips. Cut the turnips into slices, boil them for a few minutes, drain them; put them in a saucepan, with a lump of butter, pepper, salt, and some stock; simmer slowly until done. When cooked, pass through a sieve; put them back on the fire, add a little cream or butter, and serve up hot. If the puree should be too liquid, add a little potato flour at the same time as the cream, and simmer together for a few minutes. 176.—Glazed Turnips. Cut young turnips into round balls, boil them for 5 minutes in boiling water, then drain them. Now butter a stewpan, place the turnips side by side, pour over them some good stock or gravy; sprinkle over a little castor sugar, salt and pepper, and a very little mace. As soon as they begin to boil, cover the saucepan with a buttered paper and the lid; let them simmer until cooked. Take out the turnips; add a little gravy to what remains in the saucepan; boil up once or twice, and pour over the turnips.74 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 177.—Tossed Tomatoes. Peel them and cut them in slices; put them in a saucepan, with some bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and butter; stir them all thoroughly together, and simmer for half an hour. 1 breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs to 3 of tomatoes is about the right quantity. Canned tomatoes are good cooked in this manner, but without the water which is in the can. That can be saved for soup, not thrown away. 178.—Tomato au Gratin. Cut some ripe tomatoes in slices; place them in a baking-dish in layers, with some chopped onion and bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and a little gravy between each layer; cover the top with a last layer of bread-crumbs and a few lumps of butter. Bake about 20 minutes. If fresh tomatoes are not at hand, the canned tomato puree will be found a good substitute. 179.—Fricassee of Mushrooms. Peel the mushrooms, then put them for a minute into boiling water, then into cold; wipe them dry. Put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, toss them a couple of minutes, and stir in some flour, pepper, salt, little parsley, and thyme. Add some stock, and75 VEGETABLES, ETC. simmer together half an hour. Strain the sauce; beat a few yolks of eggs with some lemon-juice, stir it into the sauce, and serve with the mushrooms. N.B.—If the fricassee is served alone, have some fried sippets; place the mushrooms on the sippets, and pour the sauce on the top. 180.—Croustades of Mushrooms. Chop an onion very small, fry it in butter a pale brown, stir it carefully, then add a quarter of a pound of finely chopped mushrooms ; simmer together till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. Soak 2 anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of French mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of brown sauce; add this to the mushrooms. Boil together for 2 or 3 minutes, and fill your croustade cases. 181.—Mushrooms “ a la Bordelaise.” Put some oil on a flat baking-dish; sprinkle some bread-crumbs and finely chopped parsley; lay over this some mushrooms, then some more oil, parsley, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, and mushrooms. Bake about half an hour, according to the thickness of the mush- rooms. 182.—Beetroot “ a la Creme.” Peel a beetroot and cut it into slices, then cook it very slowly in a melted butter sauce or white bdcha- mel. Season with pepper and salt, and serve.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 76 183.—Hot Polish Salad (Red Cabbage Salad). Cut a red cabbage in shreds; melt some goose dripping; season it to taste with vinegar, salt, and pepper. When it is hot, put in the cabbage and let it simmer; at the last moment stir in a few yolks of eggs. N.B.—If no goose dripping is at hand, butter or oil can be used. 184.—Curried Macaroni. Boil some macaroni and drain it; put it into the curry sauce; simmer for 5 or 10 minutes, and serve. Each piece of macaroni must be quite separate, and not cooked to a paste. 185.—Macaroni “en Timbale.” Have some boiled macaroni; drain it well; put it in a saucepan, with pepper, salt, butter, and grated Par- mesan and Gruyere cheeses; toss it on the fire till the cheese is melted, and not longer. Have a buttered tin ; line it with a nice thin paste; put the macaroni in it, cover the top with more paste, and fix a well-buttered paper on the top (to prevent the paste from burning). Put it in a hot oven, and bake from half an hour to an hour, according to the size. Turn out of the tin and serve.VEGETABLES, ETC. 77 186.—Macaroni and Tomato. Boil the macaroni in stock, pour cold water over it, then drain it. Put some butter in a saucepan, then the macaroni, some grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheeses, pepper, salt, little nutmeg, little cream, and thick tomato sauce; toss altogether for a few minutes. 187.—Curried Vegetables. Remains of any cooked or partly cooked vegetables, the greater variety the better. Fry them all in butter, with a little onion; add a little curry powder, prepared cocoa-nut, sour milk. Stew not less than three-quar- ters of an hour. Must be stewed slowly, and be like a thick pulp, not liquid. Serve with rice. 188. —Egg or Vegetable Curry. Make a good curry sauce (recipe 90). Warm in it the slices of hard-boiled egg or cold cooked slices of vegetables. Serve with rice. 189. —Vegetable Border Mould. Make a puree of whichever vegetable you are going to use. When nicely smooth and flavoured, stir in a couple of yolks of eggs, press the mixture into a buttered border mould, and steam about 20 minutes.78 WHOLESOME COOKERY. Turn out, and serve inside a savoury mince, or cutlets, or small rissoles, etc. 190.—“ Timbale de Legumes.” Boil some vegetables, such as young carrots, green peas, French beans, young broad beans, and cauli- flowers; drain them, and toss them up in a yellow sauce. Butter a mould, line it with paste, put in the vegetables, cover the mould with paste. Fix a buttered paper on the top to prevent it burning. Bake in the oven about half an hour to an hour, according to the size. Turn out and serve without delay. 191.—Puree of Chestnuts. Roast the chestnuts, peel them carefully, toss them in a little butter; add some stock, pepper, salt, and a little light white wine. Let them simmer until they are quite soft. Pass through a hair sieve, and put them back on the fire; add a little cream, and serve alone or with cutlets. 192.—Haricot Beans “ a la Provencal.” Put 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 anchovies, a shallot, a clove of garlic, all pounded small, in a saucepan. Put in your cooked beans; toss up for a few minutes over the fire; add a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a sliced gherkin; toss all together. Put a little79 VEGETABLES, ETC. lemon-juice or vinegar in the saucepan; boil it up a minute with the sauce which adheres to the saucepan. Pour it over the beans and serve. N.B.—Those who do not like oil or garlic can use butter instead of oil, and leave out the garlic. 193.—Haricot Beans (Plain). Soak them in cold water for 3 hours, then put them in cold water (with or without an onion), and boil them for 3 hours. Drain them; put them back in the saucepan, with a little gravy, or with butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Toss them a few minutes over the fire, and serve them. 194.—Lentils. Wash them, thi-ow them in cold water, and boil or 2 hours (they ought then to be thoroughly cooked, and yet not broken). Drain the water oft) and put them back in the saucepan, with some gravy, or with a little butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Toss them a few minutes over the fire, and serve them. If liked, boil an onion with the lentils. 195.—Puree of Lentils. Boil some lentils in water and salt, with an onion, a carrot, bunch of herbs. When thoroughly cooked, pass them through a hair sieve; put them back on the80 WHOLESOME COOKERY. fire, and stew them for a few minutes, with a little butter or gravy. Serve with a border of fried sippets. The purde must be of the consistency and smoothness of well-mashed potatoes. 196.—Puree of Red Beans. Proceed as above. 197.—Puree of Split Green Peas. Proceed as with lentils. 198.—Brittany Beans. Cut some onions in thin shreds, scald them and drain them. Fry them in butter till they are a pale brown, then sprinkle them over with flour, pepper, and salt, and toss them up for 5 minutes. Add some stock, and stew for about 20 minutes, taking care to stir frequently, so that the onion does not stick to the saucepan. Then add some well-cooked haricot beans, some butter ; toss altogether, and serve. 199.—Puree of White Haricot Beans “ a la Creme.” Boil the beans with a bunch of herbs and an onion ; pass through a hair sieve ; put them back in a saucepan with a little butter and some cream, pepper, and salt. Toss up for a few minutes, and serve.81 VEGETABLES, ETC. 200.—Broad Beans “ a la Creme.” Take them as young as possible; boil them for a few minutes, then put them in a saucepan, with a lump of butter, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a elass of milk. When cooked, take out the beans. Thicken the sauce with one or two yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and serve over the beans. N.B.—If the beans are not quite young and tender, take off the outside skin after they have been boiled for a few minutes, and before they are put with the butter, etc. 201.—Brazilian Black Beans. Soak the beans for 3 hours; boil them 3 more hours; drain them, and put them in another saucepan, with some small pieces of bacon, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a teaspoonful of anchovy pa,ste, a pinch of chutnee, and a little gravy or stock. Stew all together for half an hour, and serve with boiled rice or powdered mandioca root. N.B.—The Brazilians stew the beans with various sorts of meat in place of the sauces. 202.—Venetian Rice (“ Risotto a la Venitienne ”). Patna rice, 1 teacupful. Boil it for 20 minutes in 1 teacupful of brown gravy, with half an onion. The rice will then be cooked, and each grain dry. G %WHOLESOME COOKERY. 82 Stir in 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and half an ounce of butter; pepper and salt to taste. Mix well together, and leave by the side of the fire for 10 minutes. 203.—Milanese Rice (“ Risotto a la Milanaise”). Patna rice, 1 teacupful. Throw it into 1 teacupful of boiling white stock or milk; add half a chopped onion. Put on the lid, and let the rice boil for 20 minutes. The rice should be then quite cooked and dry, each grain separate. Blend a small pinch of saffron (not more than will lie on a threepenny piece) in half an ounce of butter; stir this into the rice, with 1 ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; pepper and salt to taste. Stir all well together. Cover the saucepan, and leave it by the side of the fire for 10 minutes. 204.—Neapolitan Rice (“Risotto a la Napolitaine ”). 1 teacupful of Patna rice, 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, half an ounce of butter, 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Throw the rice into the boilino- o tomato sauce, put the lid on, and boil 20 minutes; then stir in the cheese and butter, pepper and salt to taste, and let it all stand by the side of the fire for 10 minutes. N.B.—If the rice should be too dry, moisten with tomato sauce. If Carolina rice is used, boil 30 minutes instead of 20.VEGETABLES, ETC. 83 205.—Curried Kice. 1 teacupful of Patna rice to 1 teacupful of boil- ing water, 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder, half an ounce of butter. Throw the rice into the boiling water, put on the lid, and let it boil 20 minutes. The rice ought then to be cooked, and each grain dry and separate. Blend the curry powder and butter together, and let it cook for 20 minutes in 2 table- spoonfuls of stock. If not quite smooth, strain it, stir it into the rice, and let it stand at the side of the fire for 15 minutes. If Carolina rice is used, cook it half an hour. 206.—Pumpkin “a lTtalienne.” Cut some pumpkin into square pieces; boil it in salt and water for 15 minutes; take it out and let it drain. Put a good lump of butter in a saucepan ; toss the pieces of pumpkin in this, with salt and pepper; then place the pumpkin and butter on a baking-dish, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over, and bake a few minutes in the oven. 207.—Onion and Tomato Salad. Parboil some Spanish onions ; scald and peel some tomatoes; slice them, and put them in a salad bowl. Add a little chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil,WHOLESOME COOKERY. 84 pepper and salt; stir in thoroughly some oil, then vinegar to taste. Must be prepared 4 or 5 hours before it is eaten. 208.—Chartreuse de Legumes. Boil a beetroot, carrots, a cauliflower, a few peas, and some bottoms of French artichokes, or Jerusalem artichokes, French beans—in fact, any vegetables in season. Line a mould with alternate slices of carrot and beetroot cut very thin; then fill the mould with alternate layers of vegetables, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and moisten with a little beaten yolk of egg. Press the contents down, steam about 20 minutes, and serve hot with a rich bdchamel sauce round it. N.B.—If liked cold, do not steam it, but leave out the egg and turn it out cold, and serve a mayonnaise sauce round, in which mix a few capers. 209.—Plain Vegetable Salad. Boil separately equal quantities of young carrots, cauliflowei', French beans, peas, asparagus tops, and potatoes, and half the quantity of young turnips. Drain them thoroughly; cut up the carrots, turnips, potatoes, and cauliflowers; place all in a salad bowl, and dress with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, or, if preferred, a mayonnaise sauce.VEGETABLES, ETC. 85 210.—Aiguebelle Fritters. Pound 5 potatoes; add a pinch of Gruyero cheese, 10 eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, pepper and salt. Beat the eggs well before adding them to the other ingredients; mix all together very thoroughly. Divide the mixture in pieces about the size of an Osborne biscuit, fry in boiling fat, and serve. 211.—Italian Eggs. Boil some eggs hard, cut them in halves, take out the yolks and weigh them. Take as much butter as will equal the weight of the hard yolks ; put them together in a mortar, and pound them with a little bread-crumb soaked in milk or cream, chopped pars- ley, 1 anchovy, a little chopped onion, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Cook this to a thick paste with a little cream or gravy. Fill the empty whites with this, and serve cold with a salad, or hot in any sauce liked, or on a puree of vegetable. Before cutting the eggs in half, you must cut a small piece off each end, so that each half can stand firm like a small cup. N.B.—These eggs are good eaten cold with a salad. • * 212.—Buttered Eggs. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, break in some eggs, add pepper and salt; stir with a wooden spoon,86 WHOLESOME COOKERY. until the eggs are set. Serve at once, with or without fried sippets. 3 eggs to 1 ounce of butter will be found the right proportion. Buttered eggs can be flavoured with any material liked, such as the remains of dressed spinach, green peas, asparagus tops, tomato sauce, soubisc sauce, chopped ham, stewed mushrooms. 213. —Buttered Eggs and Cheese. Proceed as above, but add 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese to every 3 eggs. 214. —Buttered Eggs “ au Jus.” When the eggs are cooked as above, pour over them some hot clear gravy, such as the remains of gravy from roast beef or roast birds. 215.—Buttered Eggs (Spanish Manner). Peel 2 tomatoes; fry them in some boiling oil with a little chopped onion, or shallot, or garlic. Break in 2 eggs, add pepper and salt, stir with a wooden spoon till just set, and serve quite hot. 216.—Eggs and Fine Herbs. Put in a saucepan some chopped parsley, shallot, thyme, pep} er, salt, gill of light white wine, a lump of87 VEGETABLES, ETC. butter, and sufficient flour to thicken; boil this a quarter of an hour. Put some hard-boiled eggs on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. 217.—Eggs “ en Matelote.” Put in a saucepan 1 gill of red wine, 1 gill of stock; add a bunch of herbs, 1 onion (1 clove of garlic if liked), a few spices, pepper and salt; boil all together 10 minutes. Strain the sauce, and poach, one after the other, 6 eggs; take them out and put each egg on a fried sippet; boil the sauce up for a few minutes. Add a lump of butter, and thicken with flour; boil till the flour is cooked, and serve over the eggs. N.B.—A white matelote can be made in this manner: Boil some cream; when boiling, poach some eggs one after the other in it. Flavour the cream with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; serve it over the eggs, and fried sippets round. The quantity of cream used must depend on the number of eggs poached, and whether a quantity of sauce is liked with them. 218.—Poached Eggs and Tomato Sauce. Have a thick tomato sauce; when it is boiling, stir in a little butter, then poach some eggs in the sauce. Dish the eggs up; pour the sauce over them, and serve with fried sippets.88 WHOLESOME COOKERY. N.B.—Eggs poached in bechamel, Robert, piquante, curry, and ravigote sauces are equally good. N.B.—Hard-boiled eggs simmered fora few minutes in any of the above sauces are also very good. The dishes may be varied by serving some plain boiled rice instead of fried sippets. 219.—Eggs “ aux Asperges.” Have some small tender asparagus cut in pieces; soak them for a couple of minutes in boiling water, then put them in a saucepan with some parsley, shallot, and butter. Add a pinch of flour, and simmer together; then add a little water or stock, pepper and salt. When cooked, pour the sauce in a baking-dish; place your raw eggs on the top, taking care not to break the yolks; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cook in the oven till the eggs are set, and serve hot. 220.—Eggs “ sur le Plat.” Spread some butter on a baking-dish; break the eggs on to the dish, taking care to keep the yolks whole ; sprinkle pepper and salt over. Put the dish in the oven or on the side of the stove till set; serve at once on the same dish. If the white adheres to the bottom of the dish, the eggs are too much cooked, or there was not sufficient butter. They take about 5 minutes.VEGETABLES, ETC. 89 221.—Eggs “ a la Tripe.” Cut an onion in slices; toss it in butter without lettino- it set brown. When the onion is soft, add some flour, cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg; stew together very slowdy. When thoroughly cooked, add some hard- boiled eggs cut in slices. Toss up a minute or two, so as to heat the eggs, but do not allow them to boil. Serve at once. 222.—Omelet. 4 eggs. Beat them thoroughly together, then beat them again with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Melt 1J ounce of butter in a pan, and cook the omelet over a quick fire; double it over, and serve. Must be a pale yellow colour, and not brown; must be eaten as soon as made. 223.—Ham Omelet Is made exactly like the above, substituting finely chopped cooked ham in place of herbs. 224.—Savoury Omelets. Savoury omelets can be made in a variety of ways. Instead of using herbs or ham, use a few cooked asparagus tops, or the remains of a few dressed peas, or a little chopped stewed kidney, stewed mushrooms,WHOLES OME CO OK EH Y. 90 or the remains of some dressed macaroni. In fact, the remains of any savoury material (a very small quan- tity, of course) can be used for flavouring an omelet. 225.—Omelet and Tomato. Make a plain savoury omelet as above; just before doubling it over, put in a few tablespoonfuls of thickly made tomato sauce, and serve a little more of the sauce round the omelet. 226. —Omelet “a la Soubise.” Have a thickly made soubise sauce; place it in the omelet before it is doubled over, and serve im- mediately. 227. —Omelet “ aux Ognons.” Cut an onion up very fine; cook it slowly in butter. Have your eggs well beaten, with pepper and salt; stir the onion in with it, and cook in your pan in the usual manner. 228.—Omelet “ a la Jardiniere.” Use some remains of a vegetable macedoine to beat up with the eggs, and cook your omelet in the usual manner. Use the remainder of the macedoine round the omelet (the vegetables must be very savoury, of course).VEGETABLES, ETC. 91 229.—Truffles (To Prepare). Wash them in 2 or 3 cold waters; brush them well, until not a particle of earth remains. Place them in a small saucepan with enough marsala, or champagne, or white wine to nearly, if not quite, cover them. Boil for 10 minutes with the lid on. Now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let them remain just warm for half an hour; then peel them, and chop them up for use. Put the peel back in the remainder of the wine; let it simmer for a long time, or until the wine is reduced to half its quantity ; then melt in this some glaze, about the size of a filbert. Strain through a hair sieve for use- 230.—Truffled Omelet. When your omelet is just set, place the truffles (prepared as above) in the centre, and about a table- spoonful of the truffled gravy; double the omelet up carefully and serve at once. The omelet must be of a pale golden colour, and not hard or leathery.02 WI1 OLE SO ME CO OKEli 7. MEATS AND BIRDS. 231.—Polish Fillet of Beef. Rub the fillet with a little salt;' leave it 4 hours. Now boil some vinegar, wine, and water, in equal quantities, with an onion, a clove, a bay leaf, a couple of slices of a lemon, some thyme, and a little ginger. Pour this hot over the fillet, and leave. Each day boil up the liquor, and pour it 2 or 3 times over the fillet. Do this for 3 days. Now lard the beef with fillets of anchovy. Place some thin slices of bacon fat at the bottom of a stewpan; place the fillet upon it; cover it with some more slices of bacon fat; pour round a small quantity of the liquor the beef has soaked in, then cover the stewpan with a greased paper and the lid. Place it on the side of the fire to simmer slowly; baste it frequently with the liquor in which the beef is cooking, and alternately with a little sour milk. When the fillet is cooked, clear it from any fat which may have settled upon it. Make a sauce with flour, sour milk, butter, a pounded anchovy, and some of the liquor from the beef. Add a few capers, and serve round the beef.ME A TS AND BIRDS. 93 232.—Fillets of Beef Sautes. Trim some pieces of fillet about 1 inch thick and 2 inches in diameter. Fry them till brown on both sides in butter over a quick fire; then have ready a sauce made with half a pint of good stock or thickened gravy, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of sherry, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of ketchup, pepper and salt to taste. Put in the fillets and simmer a few minutes. Add a little lemon-juice and serve hot. 233.—Fillets of Beef and Olives. Take the undercut of a sirloin or some tender fillet of rump; cut and trim it into pieces all about the same size. Rub them well with a little oil and vinegar. Toss mem up for a minute or two in some butter; then add stock, gravy, or water, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 2 wine-glassfuls of claret or of sherry; thicken with flour. Put on the lid and stew very gently until done. Five minutes before dishing up, add some stoned olives. 233a.—Filet de Bceuf aux CEufs Poches. Trim a fillet of beef and lard it thoroughly; tie it to keep it in shape. Put it in a stewpan, with a sliced carrot, a sliced onion, a bunch of herbs, a little good stock, a glassful of Madeira, pepper and salt; simmer very slowly until the fillet is cooked. Skim the gravy94 WHOLESOME COOKERY. and strain it; poach some eggs in this until the yolks are quite set, then simmer in the gravy some artichoke bottoms and some mushrooms. Dish up the beef with the artichokes, mushrooms, and eggs around it. 234.—Fillets of Beef and Oysters. Proceed as for fillets of beef and olives, but sub- stitute oysters in place of the olives. 234a.—Roast Fillet of Beef. Have a nicely trimmed fillet of beef; lard it thoroughly well; place it on a dish, with a little oil, salt, pepper, parsley, bay leaf, and a few slices of onion; leave it 12 hours, and turn it frequently. Roast it before the fire, and serve with its own gravy, into which at the last add a squeeze of lemon. 235.—Beef and Macaroni. Slice 2 large onions and fry them very thoroughly in a little butter. Have a small fillet of the rump, about 1| pound ; lard it; put it in the stewpan, with the onions and 2 pints of water or stock. If you use water, you must add a few vegetables. Simmer gently for 2 hours; now add half a pound of macaroni, and stew gently for another 35 minutes. Take out theMEATS AND BIRDS. 95 beef and dish it up with some of the gravy. Stiain the macaroni; put it back on the fire, with a small lump of butter and about 2J ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; stir it over the fire for. 2 minutes, and serve either round the beef or in a separate dish. Must be dished up very hot. 236.—Fillet of Beef “ Braise a la Puree de Tomates.” Put the beef in a stewpan, with a small quantity of light white wine, 1 tablespoonful of brandy and good stock, an onion, carrot, bay leaf, a bunch of thyme and parsley, pepper and salt. Bring it rather quickly to a boil; skim it very carefully; then let it simmer till done, either by the side of the fire or in the oven. Take out the beef; skim the sauce again carefully, and strain it; put it back on the fire to re- duce, then add to it a very thick pure'e of tomatoes. Simmer together for 10 minutes, and serve it round the beef. 237.—Silver Side of Beef Stewed. Put 6 or 7 pounds of beef in a stewpan, with 2 carrots cut in four, 1 or 2 onions, a small handful of dried vegetables (or fresh leek, parsnip, celery), 3 cloves, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay leaf, half a ball of browning, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 glass of sherry or other white wine, H96 WHOLESOME COOKERY. to 2 pints of water, salt and pepper to taste. Shut up the stewpan very tightly and stew gently for 3 hours. A short time before dishing, take out the beef, strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour. Put the beef in again to warm, and serve quite hot. (Vegetables can be used for a soup next day.) It is an improvement to lard the beef, and to cook a white calf’s foot with it. The calf’s foot can be used either with sauce or fried in batter. 238.—Cold Galantine of Beef Take a well-shaped piece of silver side of the round, about 5 pounds, without bone or fat; lard it and tie it up tight. Put in a saucepan 1 onion sliced, 1 carrot sliced, 1 tablespoonful of butter hot, any trimmings of veal or liver you may have (if you have none, add a calf’s foot), and 2 quarts of broth or stock. Put in the beef; add pepper, salt, 3 cloves, 2 bay leaves, some parsley, chopped shallot; place on a good fixe for a few minutes and skim, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for four hours or more. Put the beef into a large mould; strain the gravy through a piece of muslin, and pour it into the mould; let it stand till cold. Then remove any fat that may have set round it. The calf’s foot can be boned and used either with sauce, or egged, bread-crumbed, and fried.MEATS AND BIRDS. 97 239.—Haricot of Mutton. Cut up a breast of mutton; toss the pieces in butter, till they are slightly coloured; thicken the butter with flour. Put back the meat; add some stock, a few potatoes, an onion or two, a little thyme, parsley, pepper, salt, bay leaf and nutmeg; simmer gently till cooked ; skim carefully, and serve. 240.—Mutton (Hung). Hano- a leg: of mutton knuckle downwards; cover the thick top end with brown sugar; be careful to rub it every day and to keep it covered with sugar. When well hung, roast it in the usual manner. 241.—Leg of Mutton “ a l’Allemande.” Wipe a leg of mutton thoroughly; rub it with salt and spices; pour some boiling plain malt vinegar over; turn the mutton in it 3 or 4 times. Leave it in this brine for four days, and turn it each day. Then take out the mutton; rub it again with salt and pepper; lard it well. Put it in a stewpan, with a sliced onion, sprig of parsley, slice of lemon, a crust of brown bread, and two tablespoonfuls of the brine. Simmer the meat in this until done, basting it fre- quently with sour cream, and turning it also frequently. Prepare the sauce as follows:—Fry some onion HWHOLESOME COOKERY. 98 slightly in a little butter; add some stock or gravy; cook it till the onions are done. Pass through a hair sieve, and serve round the meat. To be eaten with a potato salad. 242.—Stewed Leg of Mutton. A couple of slices of ham, 4 carrots, a couple of onions (all cut up), 3 bay leaves, thyme, parsley, leek, celery, 2 cloves, pepper, salt, 1 gill of gravy (or 2 if the leg of mutton is a large one), 1 gill of white wine. Brown the mutton for a few minutes in butter; add the above ingredients. Cover the saucepan with paper, place the lid on the top, and stew from 5 to 7 hours, very gently indeed. Before serving, skim the gravy, pass it through a hair sieve, and serve round the mutton. The vegetables will make a nice soup next day. 243.—Cotelettes de Mouton aux Ognons. Trim some cutlets; lard them with some ham and fresh larding fat, using a very fine larding-needle for the purpose. Put the trimmings of the cutlets in a saucepan, with a couple of small onions, a couple of carrots, bunch of parsley, pepper, and salt. Lay the cutlets on this; add enough gravy or stock to cover them, a few slices of larding pork on the top. Cover with a buttered paper, and the lid fixed tightly on; simmer till cooked. Now take out the cutlets; passMEATS AND BINDS. 09 the sauce through a sieve, put it back on the fire, and let it simmer till it is almost reduced to a glaze. Put the cutlets in this; turn them so as to cover them on both sides with the glaze. Dish them up with some “ osrnons il la cx-eme.” © 244.—Breast of Mutton “ a la Sauce Piquante.” Simmer the breast of mutton in some stock, with carrot, turnip, onion, bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt. When cooked, bone it carefully, then egg and bread- crumb it. Broil it or grill it on or before the fire, and serve with a sauce piquante. 245.—Foreign Stew. Cut in pieces some beef or mutton (beef is best); rub each piece with vinegar to make it tender; put the meat in a jar, with some carrots, turnips, onion, all sliced; season with pepper and salt; sprinkle a little flour over. Place a piece of well-greased paper over the jar, then the lid, and then a heavy weight. Bake in a slow oven for four or five hours. 246.—Stewed Neck of Mutton. Trim off part of the fat, and cut it up into nicely shaped cutlets. Lay some of the cutlets in a stewpan, with pepper and salt; then a layer of green peas, a100 WHOLESOME COOKERY. little sliced onion, some lettuce broken in pieces; then another layer of meat and vegetables and slices of cucumber. Pour over this about 1 pint of water, and stew very gently. Should the water evaporate, add a little more, or add gravy. Skim off all the fat very carefully and dish up. The cucumber ought to be taken out as soon as it is cooked, which it will be before the other ingredients, and it can be added in again just before dishing up. 247.—Savoury Mould. Mince up very small the remains of any cold meats, the greater variety the better. Add a slice of bread soaked in milk, pepper and salt, a spoonful of chutnee. Put all together in a saucepan, with sufficient stock or gravy to moisten it; stew slightly for a few minutes; put it in a mould and steam half an hour. Turn out with a nice gravy round, or any sauce liked. N.B.—This mould is good cold, served with a salad. 248.—Fricandeau of Veal. Have a nicely shaped piece of veal (either fillet or cushion); lard it very thoroughly on both sides. Put in a saucepan the trimmings of your veal and larding pork, some chopped onion, chopped carrots, bunch of herbs, bay leaf, a couple of cloves, and some stock. Place the veal in this, and let it simmer till cooked.101 MEATS AND BIRDS. Be careful to frequently baste the top of the veal with some of the gravy it is cooking in. When you are not basting, keep the saucepan covered. When the veal is cooked, take it out. Skim the sauce carefully, and strain it; put it in another saucepan, and let it stew till very much reduced. Now put the veal back, and leave it to colour (that part of the veal which is in the sauce will colour). Dish up the veal. Stir into the gravy a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock, so as to move all the gravy from the sides; pour it over the veal. You must be careful to dish up the side of the veal which was downwards in the gravy. N.B.—If you are going to serve a purde of spinach or endive or sorrel with the veal, you will dress your purde with the veal gravy, and serve the whole thing round the veaL 249.—Fillet of Veal “ aux Anchois.” Take a thick slice off a fillet of veal; lard it through with some fillets of anchovy, season with pepper and salt. Pour over it some plain vinegar; leave it about 8 hours, then wipe the vinegar off Sprinkle some flour over it on both sides; put some oil in a frying- pan, and toss the veal in it over a slow fire; turn it frequently on both sides. Take out the veal. Put the juice of 1 lemon into the sauce, stir it well over the fire; pour it over the veal and serve.102 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 250.—“ Cervelles,” or Brains (To prepare). Put the brains to soak in warm water until you can easily remove the skin and free them from blood. Then put them in cold water with a little salt, and let them remain for an hour or two. Now simmer them very gently for about three-quarters of an hour in sufficient milk to cover them, with a carrot, turnip, onion, 2 cloves, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. The vegetables and cloves must be tied in a piece of muslin. The stock the brains are cooked in can be used for a vegetable soup. 251.—Cervelles frites. After the brains are cooked, cut them into pieces, egg and bread-crumb them. Fry them slightly on both sides in butter, then toss a little chopped parsley in the same butter; add a squeeze of lemon, and pour the butter and parsley over the brains. 252.—Cervelles or Sweetbreads “a l’Espagnole.” Prepare the brains according to the first part of recipe 250. Then in the bottom of a saucepan put some small pieces of veal trimmings, a couple of onions and carrots, a couple of slices oi larding pork. Put the brains or sweetbreads over this, add a small IMEATS AND BIRDS. 103 quantity of very good stock, cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and simmer until done. Take tho brains or sweetbreads out. Continue to simmer the sauce till nearly thick; strain it; put the brains or sweetbreads back in it for a few minutes. Dish them up. Pour a little stock or gravy into the sauce, so as to move all that adheres to the side of the saucepan, and serve it over the brains, etc. If sweetbreads are used, lard them, before they are cooked, with a fine larding needle. 253.—Cervelles or Sweetbreads “en Matelote.” After they are prepared as above, cook them with a little white wine, water, and vegetables (no vinegar). When cooked, strain the stock they are cooked in through a hair sieve. Now fry some small onions in butter; sprinkle about 1 tablespoonful of flour; add the stock the brains were stewed in, and some button mushrooms, pepper, and salt; simmer till the onions and mushrooms are done. Put the brains or sweet- breads in to warm, and serve up. 254.—Cervelles a la Sauce. After the brains are cooked, simmer them for a few minutes in any sauce liked, and serve them in the sauce.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 104 255.—Beignets de Cervelles. After the brains are cooked, cut them into pieces, dip them in batter, and fry them in boiling fat. Serve them dry, with fried parsley, or with any sauce liked. 256.—Mixed Frittura. Brains, sweetbreads, and calves’ feet, calf’s head, artichokes, all previously cooked. Divide into pieces of the same size; egg and bread-crumb them, or flour them; fry them in butter. Add a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice to the butter, and serve alto- gether. N.B.—Remember that calves’ feet, after they are cooked in the same manner brains are cooked, can be boned and dressed with any sauce liked, or fried either in batter, or egged and bread-crumbed. Calves’ feet, if properly cooked, make an excellent and cheap dish. 257.—To prepare Mutton Tongues. Soak them for lb to 2 hours in cold water; then put them in boiling water, and leave them to soak until the skin can be quite easily removed. Split them in halves lengthways, and stew them in stock, with a few herbs and vegetables; then serve them with any sauce liked, taking care to finish cookb g the tongues for ten minutes in the sauce with which they are to be served.105 MEATS AND BIRDS. 256.—Mutton Tongues in Cases. After the tongues are cooked, have ready some chopped herbs, mushrooms, and a little larding fat, pepper, salt, and spice. Toss this in a little butter, and let it get cold. Cover each half tongue with this mixture; wrap each up in an oiled paper; cook them slowly before the fire, or in the oven; baste them with oil. Serve in the papers. 259.—Mutton Tongues “ a la Puree.” After the tongues are cooked, serve them on a puree of any vegetable liked. 260.—Langue de Bceuf Braisee Put the tongue to soak in warm water, till it is quite free from blood, then put it to soak in cold; trim it and lard it. Put it now in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, thyme, parsley, clove, pepper and salt, and a couple of slices of larding pork and some stock. Simmer very gently for 4 or 5 hours. When cooked, skin it carefully; divide it in half lengthways. Dish it up with a piquante or tomato sauce over. 261.—Langue de Boeuf au Gratin. The remains of a cold fresh tongue. Cut it in slices. Chop up fine some parsley, tarragon, shallot, capers,106 WHOLESOME COOKERY. and anchovies; soak some crumb of bread in gravy; add to it the chopped herbs, etc., and pound it all together in a mortar with a little butter. When quite smooth, lay part of this paste on a baking-dish; place the slices of tongue upon it, then place the rest of the paste on the tongue. Melt a little butter, and pour it on the top, then a little gravy. Sprinkle a few rasp- ings over at the last, and bake in a slow oven about 15 minutes. 262.—Ox Tail. Cook it in your pot au feu, if you are having a pot au feu made; if not, boil it in stock or water with plenty of vegetables. Cut it into nice pieces; egg and bread-crumb each piece, and broil them before the fire, or fry them in hot fat; serve them on a puree of vegetables, or with a piquante, tomato, or Italian sauce. 263.—Liver “a la Menagere.” Cut some liver into thin slices; toss them up in some butter, with pepper, salt, a bay leaf. Take out the liver and keep it hot. Put into the same butter some chopped onions; let them brown; sprinkle over with flour, and add some stock. Boil it up a couple of minutes; put back the liver, and simmer it until it is cooked; stir in some yolks of eggs and some lemon-juice, and serve all together.MEATS AND BIRDS. 107 264.—Liver “ a l’ltalienne.” Cut some veal liver in tolerably thick slices. Put in a deep baking-dish or jar some oil, white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushroom, chopped shallot, pepper, salt, and small pieces of bacon; lay some of the liver over this, then some of the oil, wine, and chopped herbs and bacon, and more liver; then a few slices of fat bacon on the top. Cook this in a slow oven. Take the liver out. Continue cooking the sauce some time longer; skim it and thicken it, and serve with the liver, or serve the liver with an Italian sauce. 265. —Stewed Sheep’s Kidneys. Skin the kidneys carefully; then cut them in halves or slices, as preferred. Melt 1 ounce of nice dripping or butter in a stewpan; add some chopped onion, chopped parsley. Stew for a few minutes, and stir all the time. Now add a little flour, some stock, gravy, or water, a wine-glassful of ketchup, the same quantity of wine, salt, and pepper. Stew very gently for an hour with the lid on. Serve with fried sippets. Liver or beef kidney prepared in this manner is good. 266. —Liver Stuffing, for Birds. Chop half a pound of fat liver, 2 shallots, 2 ounces of fat ham, with a little thyme, nutmeg, pepper, and108 WHOLESOME COOKERY. salt; toss it in a little butter until nearly cooked. Pound it in a mortar, and stuff a pheasant with it. 267.—Provencale Stuffing1, for Birds. Chop and parboil some large onions; drain them in a sieve; put them into a stewpan, with 4 ounces of butter, some bread-crumbs soaked in milk, chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a few yolks of eggs; stir the whole over the fire until it forms a paste. Stuff your bird, and roast it. Serve with a tomato sauce. 268.—Fowl “ a la Marengo.” Cut up a fowl as for a fricassee; fry the pieces in oil, with pepper, salt, chopped mushrooms and herbs. When cooked, dress them on the dish with an Italian sauce round. Fry some eggs and sippets in the same oil the fowl was fried in, and serve round the fowl. N.B.—Those who object to oil can use fresh butter. Another way.—After the fowl is cut up as for a fricassee, put it in a stewpan, with 2 ounces of butter, a small quantity of gravy, chopped ham, sliced onion, pepper, and salt. Stew until nicely cooked. Add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. 269.—Spanish Chicken. Cut a chicken into fillets and nice joints. Take a Spanish onion, cut it up very small; put itMEATS AND BIRDS. 109 in a stewpan, with 2 ounces of butter and a little pepper and salt; let it stew gently for about an hour, or until it is a complete pulp. Put in the chicken and stew half an hour. Before dishing up add a squeeze of lemon-juice. 270.—Chicken “ a la Champenoise. Take a slice of ham, more fat than lean; put it in a saucepan over the fire and nearly cook it. Take it out and chop it into small pieces; cut up also a carrot and a few mushrooms. Put them all together in the same saucepan, add some butter, and sprinkle over with flour; then add a little white wine and some good gravy. Stew this together, then skim it carefully. Now put in this some joints and fillets of roasted chicken, a few gherkins previously scalded, some chopped parsley, and some chopped anchovies (be sure to soak the anchovies in warm water first). Toss all this together without letting it boil, add some lemon-juice at the last, and serve. 271.—Fowl “ a la Verez.” Cut up a chicken as for a fricassee; fry it in butter, then add slices of Spanish onions and slices of tomato; continue cooking all together till done. Dish up with the onion and tomato in the centre. There must be more tomato than onion. Partridges and pheasants are good dressed in this manner.110 WHOLESOME COOKERY. I 272.—Poule au Riz. Truss a fowl for boiling. Put it in a saucepan, with half an onion chopped, 1 turnip and 1 carrot, also chopped, a bunch of herbs; cover it with milk or milk and water; add pepper and salt. Let it simmer till cooked. When it is about half cooked, take out some of the stock; put it in another saucepan, and simmer some rice in it. When both chicken and rice are cooked, strain the chicken sauce; then take as much as you think yon will require for sauce, and thicken it with 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, and add a little cream. Use a very small quantity of this sauce to toss the rice in, and add a pinch of cheese to it, or if cheese is disliked, a little nutmeg. Now serve the chicken and sauce up, and hand the rice in a separate dish. In France the cooks usually cook chicken and rice together, and serve both in the same dish. It is less troublesome to cook, equally good, but makes a very untidy looking dish. 273.—Fried Chicken. Cut a roasted chicken into fillets and small joints ; rub them with vinegar; sprinkle pepper, salt, and chopped herbs over them. Leave them for an hour; then wipe them, dip in frying batter, fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley or any sauce liked. N.B.—Remains of cold boiled chickens can be usedIll MEATS AND BIRDS. for this ; if they have any remains of sauce over them they need not be rubbed with vinegar, etc. 274.—Duck Douillet. Wrap carefully round a duck some slices of fresh larding pork; sprinkle with pepper and salt; put it in a stew-pan, with equal quantities of stock and light wine; add a few slices of lemon. Let it simmer gently until cooked, then skim and strain the sauce; thicken and serve. 275.—Stewed Duck and Olives. Bub the duck with lemon-juice ; fry it in some butter or good dripping for a few minutes. Sprinkle some flour over; then add sufficient gravy or stock to cover it, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 carrot cut in four, 1 or 2 onions, 2 cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, pepper and salt. Stew for an hour; then take out the duck, strain the gravy, and remove all the fat. Put the gravy back on the fire, and some stoned and scalded olives; boil for 5 to 10 minutes, and dish up with the duck. 276.—Salmis of Wild Duck. Wrap a wild duck in a buttered paper, and half roast it; then carve it into joints, and put it into a saucepan with the gravy which came from it in112 WHOLESOME COOKERY. roasting. In another saucepan put the trimmings of the duck, a tumbler of red wine, half a shallot, a clove, some pepper and salt; boil it down till there is only half the original quantity. Strain the sauce ; stir into it some flour and butter to thicken, a little glaze, a tablespoonful of oil, and the juice of one lemon. Add this to the duck. Toss up together to finish cooking the duck, and serve with fried sippets. N.B.—Of course, a salmis can be made with the remains of roast wild duck; but in that case only toss them in the sauce sufficiently long to warm them through. 277.—Stewed Duck and Turnips. Cut some turnips into pretty shaped balls; toss them up in butter, and sprinkle very lightly with sugar. Take them out; then fry your duck for a few minutes in the same butter. Then in another sauce- pan put a small lump of butter; thicken with a little flour; add some parsley, onion, bay-leaf, some good gravy, a little white wine. Put the duck in this, to stew very gently. When half cooked, add the turnips, and finish cooking together very slowly. Skim the fat off carefully, and serve up hot. 278.—Goose or Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts. Pound the goose or turkey liver up with a very little finely chopped bacon, some herbs, salt, and nut-MEATS AND BIRDS. 113 I mea\ Have some chestnuts cooked and carefully b peeled; toss them over the fire in a little butter or gravy, with the above liver, etc. Stuff the bird thoroughly with it. Roast it carefully; serve it up with its own gravy, to which add a squeeze ol lemon. 279.—Stewed Pigeons. Stuff tho pigeons with the following: —bread-crumbs soaked in milk, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, shallot, and mushroom. Put the pigeons in a stewpan, with a lump of butter or drip- ping, a slice of bacon; fry them for a few minutes, then add some gravy or good stock and a little wine; cover them up and stew very gently till done. Strain the gravy, and serve. 280.—Pigeons and Prawns “ en Ragout de Crevettes.” When your pigeons are prepared, cut them in half; put them in a stewpan, with a glass of light white wine, a glass of stock, parsley, shallot, pepper, salt, and a couple of cloves ; simmer them till done. Strain the gravy. Now in another saucepan put a lump of butter, some button mushrooms, and some skinned prawns; add a little flour, and the gravy the pigeons were stewed in. Simmer this for about half an hour, then thicken it with some cream and a few yolks of eggs; add some finely chopped parsley and gratedWHOLESOME COOKERY. 114 nutmeg. Dish up the pigeons with the mushrooms and prawns and gravy in the centre. 281.—Stewed Larks. Roast 2 dozen larks slightly, with a piece of bacon fat over each lark. Then remove the meat off 6 of them, and pound it in a mortar; add a few savoury herbs and bread soaked in milk, pepper and salt. Stuff the other 18 larks with this mixture, and put them in a stewpan with the gravy which came from the roasting of the larks. Sprinkle with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Stew very gently, and serve on fried pieces of bread. Pour the sauce over. 282.—Game or Fowl Stew. Remains of cold game or fowl, 1 onion sliced, 1 pickled walnut, 1 pounded anchovy, 2 glasses of gravy or stock, 2 slices of lemon, pepper, salt. Stir some flour into 1 ounce of butter, toss the onion, then add in all the other ingredients. Stew for a quarter of an hour, and serve with fried sippets. 283.—Capon “a la Regence.” Toss a capon in a little butter, then lard with a very fine larding needle. Place it in a saucepan, with some mushrooms, carrots, a turnip, an onion, and some115 MEATS AND BINDS. herbs, pepper and salt; add a very little stock and a tumbler of Madeira; simmer it till cooked. Prepare a ragout it la financiere, and serve the capon upon it. 234.—Boast Bird. Poultry or game is improved if stuffed with a stuffing made of a little bread soaked in milk, 1 ounce of butter, pepper, salt, and mushrooms. Cook the stuffing for a few minutes before putting it in the bird. Roast the bird with a toast under; baste it frequently, and serve it on the toast. 285.—Partridges “ a la Parisienne.” Toss the partridges in butter on a slow fire; before they begin to brown add a lump of glaze, some good stock, a glass of white wine. Sprinkle with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour, by which time the partridges ought to be cooked. Continue simmering the sauce some time longer; stir in at the last a lump of butter, pass through a sieve, and serve over the partridges. 286.—Partridges “a l’Estouffade.” Lard the partridges; put them in a saucepan, with some onion, carrots, a couple of slices of larding pork, a bunch of herbs, stock and white wine, pepper and116 WHOLESOME COOKERY. I salt; cover the saucepan very tightly, and simmer very gently until the birds are cooked. Cook the sauce a little longer; skim it very eai’efully, pass through a sieve, and serve over the partridges. This dish is good if done in a sloiv oven in a covered jar. 287.—Partridges “a la Portugaise.” Cut your partridges into joints; fry them in oil, with a clove of garlic and a Spanish onion; to this add a small quantity of very thick tomato sauce. Simmer the whole together, and serve with fried sippets and, if liked, a few stoned olives. 288.—Salmis of Partridges. Blend some flour and butter together in a saucepan —do not let it become brown-—add some stock or gravy, an equal quantity of red wine, 1 shallot, bunch of hei'bs, pepper, and salt; simmer this for half an hour; strain it. Have your cooked partridges cut into joints and fillets; simmer them in this sauce without allow- ing them to boil; add juice of lemon. Dish up the partridges on fried sippets with the sauce over. N.B.—All game is good dressed in this manner. 289.—Pheasant “ en Souffle.” Remove the skin and bones from a roasted pheasant; pound the meat (and livers, if the bird was1L7 MEATS AND BlllDS. not a high one) in a mortar. Put the pounded meat in a saucepan with some rich stock or gravy; let it become quite hot, but do not let it boil; then pass it through a hair sieve. Break the pheasant bones up small, and stew them down in a small quantity of gravy. Strain the gravy, add a thickening of flour and butter, stir in a small lump of glaze. Continue sim- mering the sauce till it is nearly thick, then stir in a lump of butter, some grated nutmeg, then the pheasant puree; now beat in 4 yolks of eggs; lastly, beat in (adding small quantities at a time) 2 whites of eggs stiffly whisked. Pour the mixture in a souffld case or cake tin, bake in the oven until it rises: will take about 20 minutes. Must be eaten at once ; if it waits at all, it is spoilt. Remains of chickens Or partridges make excellent souffles. 290.—Roast Quails. Wrap each quail in a vine leaf, wrap it again in a very thin layer of fat bacon; roast them before the fire. They ought not to take more than 20 minutes. 291.—Roast Hare. When the hare is prepared for roasting, lard it with a fine needle. Boil a little vinegar with a little water, sliced onion, thyme, bay leaf, parsley, pepper, salt, and some butter. When it is cold, pour it over the hare and118 WHOLESOME CO OK ELY. leave it for 24 hours; then wipe the hare and roast it before the fire. Baste it well with the liquor it has been soaking in. Serve with its gravy thickened. N.B.—The above recipe is for a tolerably fresh- hilled. hare. N.B.—Some people treat the hind part of a hare in this manner, and reserve the front part for a “ civet.” 292.—“ Civet ” of Hare. Cut the hare into pieces; toss it in a few ounces of butter, with some small pieces of slightly salted bacon ; when a little coloured, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and a couple of tumblers of light red wine. Add pepper, spices, bunch of herbs, bay leaf, a clove, and an onion. Let this simmer very slowly by the side of the fire for 5 hours (can be done in a jar in the oven). Have some small onions; toss them in butter till slightly brown, moisten with stock, add a pinch of sugar, and cook them slowly. When the hare is nearly cooked, take out the herbs and onion, and add a few mushrooms; then, if it wants salt, add some. Finish cooking. Dish up the hare with the sauce, and serve round the small onions, the mushrooms, and some fried sippets. 293.—Broiled Rabbit. Cut the rabbit into joints; wrap each joint in a buttered paper, and broil it in a Dutch oven before119 MEATS AND BIRDS. the fire. When cooked, take the papers off, and dish up the rabbit with maitre d’hotel or anchovy butter, spread on each joint. 294.—Rabbits “ Sautes.” Cut the rabbit up into neat fillets and joints. Cut some small pieces of raw ham ; toss these together in butter over a hot fire, with some chopped onion (clove of garlic), parsley, and thyme; then sprinkle them over with flour. Add some stock, a little white wine. Simmer together till the rabbit is cooked. Strain the sauce; put it back on the fire; add some chopped mushrooms; cook a few minutes longer, and serve over the rabbit. 295.—Rabbits “ en Papillote.” Chop up some parsley, mushrooms, shallot, clove of garlic, a little bacon, with pepper and salt. Mix this in a little gravy on the fire to form a paste. Cut a rabbit into neat fillets and joints. Cover each piece with the above paste; then wrap a thin slice of fat bacon, and fix each piece neatly in an oiled paper. Cook them slowly before the fire or in the oven, and serve in the papers. 296.—Ham “ au Vin de Madere.” Soak a ham for 24 hours. Tie it up in a nice cloth and parboil it, or steam it in a Warren’s cooking pot120 WHOLESOME COOKERY. till half cooked; then let it drain. Put in a large saucepan a bottle of Madeira wine; put in the ham, and finish cooking it in this. Serve with a macedoine of vegetables or a puree of spinach or sorrel. 297 —Pore a la Robert. Have a piece of fresh pork; sprinkle it over with salt, and leave it for two days; then roast it and serve it with a sauce Robert. 298.—Salpicon. Cut up some ham, some onion, and some mush- rooms, and a set of cooked brains or a sweetbread. Toss the onions and ham together in some butter, then add the mushrooms and brains; add a little stock or gravy. Simmer together; then thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 299.—Croustades. Cut a sandwich loaf into slices about 2 inches thick; scoop out the inside of each slice so as to make an empty case; fry these cases in boiling fat, and fill them with any savoury mixture liked. Serve hot. 300.—Savoury Rice Mould. Clean and wash 6 ounces of rice. Put it in a stew- pan with cold water; boil it 1 minute, then take it121 MEATS AND BIRDS. out and strain off the water. Add stock or milk, and stew gently until the rice will break easily with a spoon. Work it up with a spoonful of white sauce 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and a beaten egg. The rice must be firm and well blended. Line a mould (which has an inner space) and bake it. Turn out the rice, and fill the inner vacant space with a savoury mince dressed with white sauce ; decorate with slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. Remains of cold fish warmed in any sauce is a good substitute for the mince. The stock or milk the rice was cooked in to be used for soups, or for boiling white meats in first, and then finished as soup. 301.—Oyster Kromeskys. Cut some uncooked fat bacon into very thin slices ; place one or two oysters on each; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Cook in a Dutch oven before the fire, and serve on toast. 302.—Aspic or Meat Jelly. Boil a calfs foot in 2 quarts of a well-flavoured, i leai pot au feu soup ; strain it and let it become cold , when set, clear off the fat. Now slightly warm the greater part of it again, and pour a little in a mould. When it is set, lay some pieces of hard-boiled egg, cut gherkins, little pieces of nicely dressed chicken,122 WHOLESOME COOKERY. I or sweetbreads. Place on this a little of the cold aspic so as to keep all the pieces in their places. Now pour on this some of the slightly warmed aspic; let it set, then place some more chicken, egg, gherkin, cold aspic, etc., and continue until the mould is full. Place it in a cold place, and turn out when quite set. In placing the garnish inside the mould, be careful that no pieces touch the side of the mould, or the jelly will break at that point when turned out. N.B.—A simpler way is to pour the meat jelly into a border mould, and when set and turned out, fill the vacant space w7ith a mayonnaise of fish, meat, or vegetables. 303.—Ragout a la Financiere. Cut a slice of raw ham in vei y small pieces; put it in a stewpan, with a bunch of herbs, a mushroom, glass of white wine, glass of stock, and some pepper. Boil this together till it is reduced to half its ori- ginal quantity; pass through a sieve. In another saucepan blend some flour and butter; add a little stock; cook it till reduced to half its original quantity. Now add the two sauces together ; then warm in this sauce some foie gras, cooked cocks’ combs, truffles, mushrooms, and fonds d’artichauds. Serve alone, or as a garnish to fricasseed fowls, wild pheasants, etc. The “ financiere a la gelee,” which is preserved in bottles, can be used in this sauce, if cocks’ combs, truffles, etc., are not to be had easily; or the123 MEATS AND BIRDS. bottles of cocks’-combs and a tin of mushrooms, to- gether with little pieces of chicken, make a good “ financiered’ Bottled truffles are not worth buying; they are expensive, and have little or no flavour. 304.—Rissoles. Mince up any remains of cold meat; stew them up in thickened gravy, with a few herbs, pepper, and salt (onion if liked). Let it stand till cold. Then make it up into small balls—touch them as little as possible, and with the palms of the hands instead of the fingers—then cover them with fine bread-crumbs. Beat a yolk of egg up well; dip in the balls, and cover them again with fine bread-crumbs. Fry a pale yellow, and serve with fried parsley or gravy. 305.—Westphalian Rissoles. Mince a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; pound it up with 1 pound of mashed potatoes, some butter, pepper, salt, and two beaten eggs. Divide the mixture into rolls, and fry them in boiling fat. Serve with gravy. 306.—Pastry Rissoles. Make a light paste; roll it out thin, cut it into squares. On each square place a small piece of savoury mince; roll up each square, and fry in boiling fat. Dish up on a napkin.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 124 I 307.—Fried Oysters. Scald and beard the oysters; dip each separately in batter; drop them into boiling fat and fry crisp; drain them, and dish them up with fried parsley. They must be quite dry and crisp. 308.—Kromeskys. Mince some cold meats of any sort, and mushrooms, if you have them. Fry some onion slightly in butter, then toss in the mince for a couple of minutes; next moisten with gravy or stock; season with pepper and salt and minced parsley. Stew for a few minutes until it is in a tolerable paste; put it on one side to get cool. Cut up some slices of cooked bacon (rather fat)—the slices must be of the thinnest—place some of the savoury meat on each slice, roll them up neatly, and keep them in a cool place; then dip them in batter and fry them.( 1-5 ) SWEETS. 309.—Cabinet Pudding. Spread the inside of a mould with butter; orna- ment the bottom and sides with pieces of preserved fruits. Fill the mould with alternate slices of sponge cake, ratafias, and maccaroons, and some more pieces of dried fruits, or small lumps of guava jelly or apri- cot marmalade. Mabo a custard with 7 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 6 ounces of sugar, and a little vanilla or grated lemon-peel; add 1 wine-glassful of brandy. Let it get cold, and pour it by degrees into the mould so as to penetrate every corner; then cover the mould and steam it an hour. Serve cold with custard over it, into which mix another wine-glassful of brandy. 310.—Winter Pudding. 1 pint of very fine bread-crumbs, 1 quart of milk, 1 teacupful of sugar, 4 yolks of eggs well beaten, grated rind of 1 lemon, a lump of butter about the size of an egg. Mix all this well together in a dish, and bake it till just set (if cooked too much it will be watery).12G WHOLESOME COOKERY. I Whip up 4 whites of eggs to a stiff froth; then whisk in a teacupful of castor sugar, mixed with the juice of 1 lemon. Now turn out the pudding; spread over it a layer of jam or jelly, pour over the whisked whites, and bake slightly. Serve cold with cream. . 311.—Swiss Apples. Peel and cut the apples in quarters ; fry them in butter a pale gold colour; put them to drain (on a piece of blotting-paper is best). Heap them up on a dish, and keep them warm. Now put in a saucepan 1 pint of claret, a little cinnamon; sweeten with about half a pound of brown sugar; add the grated rind of 1 lemon and the juice of half a lemon. Make the sauce quite hot, but do not let it boil. Pour it over the apples. 312.—Banana Fritters. Cut some bananas in half; sprinkle them with castor sugar; put them to soak in a little rum. Have some frying batter; dip each piece in; fry in boiling fat, and serve up on a napkin. N.B.—Slices of apple, orange, pineapple, etc., are good if cooked in this manner. 313.—Pain Perdu. Cut some bread into round slices of a medium thickness. Boil some milk with sugar, and vanilla,127 SWEETS. and a pinch of salt. Dip each piece of bread in the milk; then dip them into a well-beaten yolk of egg. Now fry each piece in butter, and serve hot with castor sugar over them. 314.—Torrijas (Spanish). Cut some bread in round slices of a medium thick- ness. Beat the yolk of an egg in milk; sweeten it. Dip each piece of bread in the milk, then in some liqueur, such as curagoa or maraschino, etc. Let the pieces drain; then fry them, sprinkle some grated nutmeg and sugar over them, and serve hot. 315.—Maraschino Toast. Cut some bread in slices about the size of a slice of lemon; fry them a nice gold colour. Melt some jam (either cherry, or apricot, or plum) with a small quantity of water and maraschino. Simmer it for a few minutes, and pour it ever your fried bread. Serve hot. 316.—Puffs. 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 egg, half a pint of milk, a little grated lemon-peel. Mix the flour and milk to a smooth batter; add the egg, well beaten, and the grated lemon-peel; half fill some buttered cups or small moulds; bake half an hour; turn out, and serve with sifted sugar over them.WHOLESOME CO OKER Y. 128 317.—Stewed Pears. Peel the pears and put them in a stewpan, with a little water, lemon-peel, and sugar (to every pound of pears a quarter of a pound of sugar); if liked coloured, a few drops of cochineal. Simmer very gently till the pears are cooked. Take them out and continue sim- mering the syrup until it is thick. 318.—Fig Mould. Half a pound of dried figs, a small piece of lemon- peel, 2 ounces of white sugar. Cover them with half a pint of claret, or claret and water, or water alone; simmer them gently till quite soft and the liquor absorbed. Press it into a mould; when cold, turn out and serve with whipped cream or custard. When the figs are stewed, they ought to form a thick paste. If they should be at all lumpy, pass them through a wire sieve. 319.—Prune Mould. Made exactly like the fig mould. Of course, take out the stones after the prunes are cooked. Crack a few of the stones, and put some of the kernels in the mould with the prunes.S WEETS. 120 320.—Plum-Pudding 1 pound of suet, 1 pound of bread-crumbs, 1 pound of raisins, 1 pound of currants, 1 pound of moist sugar, quarter of a pound of candied lemon-peel, 1 finely chopped apple, 8 well-beaten eggs, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, 2 wine-glasses of port or sherry or brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Mix well, and boil 5 hours, either in a covered tin or tied up in a cloth. N.B.—It is wise to mix all the above ingredients thoroughly well for 3 days before adding the eggs; then add the eggs and cook the pudding. Mixed in this manner, the suet gets quite absorbed. 321.—Plain Plum-Pudding. 4 ounces of currants, 4 ounces of suet, 4 ounces of flour, 4 ounces of raisins, half a pint of milk, 4 ounces of fine bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Boil for 4 hours in a cloth or covered mould. 322.—Mincemeat. 2 pounds of currants (chop 1 pound finely), 2 pounds of raisins stoned and chopped, three-quarters of a pound of mixed candied peels chopped; 1 pound of apples peeled, cored, and chopped; 1£ pound of fresh suet, the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, KWHOLESOME COOKERY. 130 1 Seville orange, 1^ pound of moist sugar, half a grated nutmeg, hall a teaspoonful of grated cinnamon, hall a teaspoonful of ground ginger, 2 pounded cloves, 1 pint of rum or brandy. Mix all together. Put it in a jar; cover tightly with a well-fitting lid. It is wise to stir the mixture occasionally from the bottom. Keep at least a fortnight. When you use it, add a very little rum or brandy to what you are using. 323.—French Pancakes. Take 2 eggs and weigh them; then take the same weight of castor sugar, same weight of butter, and the same weight of flour. Beat the butter to a cream; beat in the flora’, and then the sugar; add a quarter of a pint of milk and the eggs. Beat all well together, and bake in patty pans in a quick oven about 20 minutes. Serve with lemons and castor sugar. 324.—Ravensdale Pudding. 1 pint of cream, peel of 1 lemon, sugar to taste. Boil all together, and take out the peel. Let the cream stand until nearly cold, then mix with it the well- beaten yolks of 8 eggs. Put the mixture in a mould; steam it half an hour. Serve cold, with some melted currant-jelly over. Half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk can be used instead of 1 pint of cream.SWEETS. 131 325.—Venus Custard. Take a quart mould; butter it well, and ornament it with candied peels or pieces of glacds fruits. Make a custard with 12 yolks and G whites of eggs, 1 pint of cream, and some loaf sugar; put it in the mould. Dissolve 1 ounce of gelatine in sufficient milk to fill up the mould. When nearly cold, stir in a glass of brandy or curaQoa. Serve cold, with a custard round. You might save some of the above custard without gelatine for serving round it. 326.—Caramel Custard. To prepare the caramel, put 5 ounces of loaf sugar, with 2 tablespoonfuls of water, in a warm mould. Melt it over the fire until the sugar and water form a golden-coloured thick syrup; take it off the fire, and turn your mould round and round until the caramel has gradually worked itself over the whole inside of the mould and forms a casing. Dip the outside of the mould in cold water: this has the effect of making the sugar set. Now mix 1 pint of boiling milk to 6 well-beaten eggs, add sugar and vanilla to taste ; then pour it cold into the mould, and steam it for 2G minutes. Let it get cold, and serve turned out. 327.—Creme Brulee (Cold). Boil 1 pint of cream for 1 minute; pour it on the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Put it on the fire, andWHOLESOME COOKERY. 132 let it gradually come almost to the boil; then put it in the dish in which it is to be served. Let it get cold. Strew over the top a thick layer of castor sugar; put it in a slow oven for 10 minutes; then brown it with a hot salamander, and serve it cold. 328.—Creme Bridie (Hot). Beat up 5 yolks of eggs. Stir them over the fire, with a good pinch of flour; gradually mix in half a pint of milk, some cinnamon, and candied lemon-peel; add a pounded maccaroon. Stir all the time, so that the mixture does not stick to the bottom of the saucepan, and be careful it does not boil. Now put the dish in which the sweet is to be served on the side of the fire, with some castor sugar and enough water to melt the sugar; when the sugar has coloured, stir the custard into it and serve at once. 329.—Bavaroise. 1 pint of double cream, 1 glass of rum or cura^oa or maraschino, three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine dissolved, 6 ounces of sugar. Whip the cream to a stiff froth; then mix the other ingredients in quickly and thoroughly. Pour into a mould, and serve when set. In warm weather it may be wise to embed the mould in ice.SWEETS. 133 330.—-Genoa Cream. Half a pint of milk, 2 ounces of maccaroons, half an ounce of gelatine, half a wine-glassful of brandy, a little grated orange-peel, 3 ounces of sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, quarter of a pint of whipped cream, a few chopped candied fruits. Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk. Boil the rest, and add to it the 4 yolks of eggs, maccaroons, sugar, and orange-peel. Stir it on the side of the fire until it begins to thicken; take it off the fire; add the brandy and then the soaked gela- tine. Strain it through a hair sieve, and when nearly cold add the whipped cream and candied fruits. Put in a mould, ready to turn ont when required. 331.—Orange Cream. 1 ounce of gelatine, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 1 lemon, 7 oranges, half a pint of cream. Squeeze and strain the juice of the lemon and orange; put it in a saucepan, with the gelatine and sufficient water to make the whole quantity up to 1 pint; rub the sugar over the lemon and orange peels, and add it to the juice. Boil up ten minutes, strain it, and when nearly cold whisk it up with the cream, and turn it into a mould to set, ready for turning out. This recipe can be used for any fruit juice in place of orange.WHOLESOME CO OKER Y. 131 332.—Apricot Cream. 1 pint of cream, quarter of a pound of castor sugar, 3 parts of a pot of apricot jam. Whip the cream to a very stiff froth ; gradually whisk in the jam and sugar, and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Must be done very quickly. Put it in a mould and turn out when stiff. Is very good without the gelatine and served in glasses. 333. —Tea Cream. Simmer a pint of cream till it is partly reduced in quantity; add 1 teacupful of strongly made tea, and sugar to taste; stir in gradually three yolks of eggs. Pass it through a hair sieve; stir it again ; put it in a mould and steam it for 20 minutes. 334. —Coffee Cream. Half a pint of cream, quarter of a pint of milk, 2 table- spoonfuls of strong coffee, sugar to taste, 4 yolks of eggs. Put the coffee, eggs, and sugar in a jug; place the jug in boiling water, and stir it till thick; let it stand till cold. Whisk it up with the cream, and serve. (If wanted to turn out of a mould, a quarter of an ounce of dissolved gelatine must be whisked in with the cream. Must be done quickly.) Another way.—1 pint of cream, half a pint of milk,SWEETS. 135 half a pint of strong coffee, 1 ounce of gelatine, 6 ounces of sugar. Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk; boil the rest of the milk with the cream, coffee, and sugar, then pour it over the dissolved gelatine. Strain it, put it in a mould, and stir it until it is nearly cold. 335.—Chocolate Cream. Half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, quarter of an ounce of gelatine, 2 ounces of chocolate, sugar to taste. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk, then boil it up with the cream ; dissolve the gelatine, and pour the boiling mixture over it; strain it and stir it till nearly cold. Put it in a mould, and turn out when set. 336.—Velvet Cream. Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half a pint of white wine, 1 pint of cream mixed with the juice of 1 lemon, and sugar to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the wine, strain it into the cream. Put it into a mould. 337.—Set Cream. Quarter of an ounce of gelatine, half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk; sugar to taste. Boil all together, stir it till nearly cold; place some jam at the bottom of a dish, and pour the mixture over. Serve when set.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 136 338. —Baked Chocolate Custard. 3 ounces of grated chocolate, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil the milk ; add the chocolate to it and boil 2 or 3 minutes, then pour it by degrees to the eggs. Pour into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven about 15 to 20 minutes, or until just set at the top. Must be of the consis- tency of a thick boiled custard. If, when served, there is an appearance of water at the bottom of the dish, it is because the custard has been allowed to bake too fast and too much. This custard can be steamed and served in the same dish. 339. —Boiled Chocolate Custard Is made like any ordinary boiled custard. You simply leave out all other flavouring, and add 2 ounces of grated chocolate to the milk when you boil it. 340. —Boiled Coffee Custard Is made like any ordinary boiled custard. You simply add some strongly made coffee to the milk when you boil it, and you leave out all other flavouring. 341. —Baked Coffee Custard. 2^ tablespoonfuls of sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 pint of milk, 1 teacupful of strongest made coffee. Proceed as for the baked chocolate custard.SWEETS. 137 342.—Mousse au Chocolat. Dissolve 2 ounces of chocolate in three-quarters of a breakfast-cupful of milk; add three-quarters of an ounce of sugar. Boil it till thick, then let it stand till cold. Whip up 1 pint of cream, and gradually add the chocolate to it. Serve in glasses. 343.—Mousse au Cafe. Make a teacupful of strong coffee with 4 ounces of coffee at least. Boil it with 1 ounce of sugar ; gradually stir in 2 yolks of eggs; let it get cold. Whip up 1 pint of cream, and gradually add the coffee to it. Serve in glasses. 344.—Creme a la Imperatrice. Make a custard with two teacupfuls of milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and 1J ounce of sugar. Simmer 2 ounces of rice in 1 pint of milk with 1 ounce of sugar. Must be simmered very slowly. When the milk is absorbed the rice is cooked and must be quite soft. When the custard is nearly cold, stir it in by degrees to the rice ; then stir in gradually a small pot of apricot marmalade. Beat all well together so as to avoid lumps. Add now half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Whisk up stiffly 1 pint of cream ; add it by degrees to the above mixture. Pour into a mould, and turn out and serve when set.138 WHOLESOME COOKERY. / 345.—Swiss Cream. Boil the rind of 1 lemon in 1 pint of cream; sweeten to taste. When the cream is sufficiently flavoured with the lemon, strain it. Lay 4 ounces of maccaroons in a dish. When the cream is cold, add the juice of 1 lemon to it, and pour it over the maccaroons. Let it stand for some hours before using it. It is an im- provement to add at the last moment some Devonshire or whipped cream. 346.—Cream Snow. The grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, a couple of glasses of sherry; sweeten it to taste. Whisk this up with 1 pint of cream. Line a perforated mould with muslin, pour in the mixture, and let it stand for some hours, then turn out and serve. 347.—Syllabubs. Take the grated rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 3, 1 pint of cream, one-third of a pint of sherry; sugar to taste. Mix this well together; then whisk it up to a stiff froth, and serve in glasses. 348.—Junket. 1 pint of milk, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of brandy or Scotch whisky, 1 dessert-spoonful of prepared rennet (Crosse and Blackwell’s), whipped cream or Devon-SWEETS. 139 shire cream, grated nutmeg or glacds cherries. Make the milk hot; put it in a dish with brandy or whisky, sugar, and rennet. Stir it together, and cover it until it is set; then spread the cream over the top, and finally decorate with glacds cherries or grated nutmeg, and serve. 349.—(Eufs aux Macarons. Pound 3 maccaroons with some castor sugar; melt 1 ounce of butter and add it to the maccaroons. Beat up G yolks of eggs and 3 whites separately; then beat both whites and yolks up with the maccaroons as you would an omelet. Place* the mixture in the dish in which it is to be served; put the dish in a saucepan of warm water, and let it steam ; sprinkle some castor sugar over the top, and pass a hot salamander over. Sexwe hot or cold. 350.-—(Eufs a la Neige. Take 6 eggs; beat the whites to a very stiff froth. Now take a pint of milk; sweeten and flavour it with vanilla. Put the milk in a saucepan; when it comes to a boil, drop in (by large tablespoonfuls) the white egg-froth. Turn each piece so as to cook it on every side (2 minutes will suffice). Remove it out of the milk, and with the six yolks of eggs and milk make a boiled custard, which when cold, serve with the lumps of white froth on the top.MO WHOLESOME COOEEBY. 351.—CEufs aux Pistaches. Pound some pistachio kernels. Blend a little corn flour in cream ; put it on the fire, with the kernels, some grated lemon-peel; sugar to taste. Stir this together, then put it in the dish it is to be served in. Place this dish in a saucepan of hot water; add G eggs; stir with a wooden spoon till nearly set. Sprinkle some castor sugar over the top, pass the hot salamander over, and serve hot or cold. 352.—Sweet Omelet. Beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately. With the yolks beat in some castor sugar and grated lemon-peel; then beat whites and yolks together with a very little milk. Melt some butter in a pan, and cook the omelet over a quick fire; double it over, and serve. 353.—Omelet “a la Robespierre.” Make a sweet omelet; when it is dished, sprinkle over it .some castor sugar. Pour some absinthe over, and set fire to it at table. 354.—Omelet ‘‘aux Confitures.” Make your omelet in the above manner. Melt some jam; place it inside the omelet before doubling it over, and serve.SWEETS. 141 355.—Omelet “ au Rhum.” Make a sweet omelet; when it is dished, sprinkle over it some sifted sugar; then pour over some rum. Set fire to it at table. 356.—Omelet “Souffle.” Mix and beat together 6 yolks of eggs, 4£ ounces of sugar ; flavour with vanilla. Beat the whites up ; then beat them lightly with the yolks Butter a dish well; pour the mixture in it, sprinkle sifted sugar over, put it in the oven, and serve it as soon as it rises. Will take from 6 to 8 minutes. 357.—Plain Rice Mould. Simmer 4 ounces of Carolina rice and 2h ounces of sugar in 1 quart of milk, with a little lemon-peel. When all the milk is absorbed, press the mixture in a mould and turn out when cold. Must have a creamy appearance when eaten. Serve alone or with custard or stewed fruits. Another way.—Prepare the rice as above, then beat in a small piece of butter and 4 eggs; put it in a well-buttered mould, in which you have sprinkled some castor sugar. Bake about 20 minutes to half an hour, turn it out, and sprinkle castor sugar over.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 142 358.—Caramel Rice Mould. I Prepare the mould with caramel according to recipe 326. Take 4* ounces of Carolina rice; put it in 1 quart of milk, and let it gradually swell till cooked and the milk absorbed; then add a small lump of very fresh butter and stir in 4 eggs. Put this in your mould; do not quite fill the mould. Steam it from 20 minutes to half an hour. Serve hot, or cold with a custard round 359.—Plain Cold Rice Pudding. 1 ounce of Carolina rice, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, a very small lump of butter, 1 pint of milk. Place all in a deep pie-dish and bake till quite set. Must be done very slowly. Serve cold. When the spoon is put in the dish it ought to come out with a cream upon it; if it does not, the pudding has not succeeded. 360.—Caramel Semolina Mould. Prepared exactly like the Caramel rice (358 j. 361.—Plain Souffle. 3 yolks of eggs well beaten; 3 whites of eggs, also well beaten; 2 ounces of potato flour (Groult’s), 1 ounce of butter, 1J ounce of castor sugar and a little finely I143 SWEETS. chopped lemon-peel, quarter of a pint of milk. Put in a stewpan the potato flour, sugar, butter, milk, and lemon-peel; stir it well together until the flour is cooked. Let it cool, and then stir in quickly the yolks, and then the well-whisked whites of eggs. Butter a dish and bake 25 minutes. Serve at once; if this dish waits even one minute, it will fail. 362.—Coffee Souffle. Made as above, but adding to the milk 1 teacupful of strong coffee, and leaving out the lemon-peel. 363.—Chocolate Souffle. Leave out the lemon-peel and about 1J ounce of the potato flour, and add 1 ounce of grated chocolate to the milk. 364.—Vanilla Souffle. Leave out the lemon-peel and add essence of vanilla. 365.—Beignets Souffles or French Fritters. 1 breakfast-cupful of water, 4 ounces of flour, 11- ounce of butter, 1 \ ounce of loaf sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, 3 eggs. Put in a saucepan the water, sugar, butter, and grated lemon-peel; when it boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in144 WHOLESOME COOKERY. the flour. Put it back on the fire and let it boil a few minutes, stirring all the time. It must be now quite a stiff paste, very nearly like a lump of dough. Put this lump in a large bason. When cool—not cold—put in 1 (unbeaten) egg; mix it well with the paste; then add the second egg, and then the third. It takes about 4 minutes to mix in thoroughly each egg. Let this paste stand two or three hours before using it. Now put in a deep stewpan some fat, clarified lard, or dripping; when it boils completely, dip a teaspoon in it, and then take half a teaspoonful of the batter and drop it into the fat. Continue until you have used up all the batter. Each fritter will be cooked when it is a rich gold colour and swollen to the size of an apricot. The reason you dip the teaspoon in the boiling fat is to cause the batter to slip easily off the spoon. Serve the fritters on a d’oyley with castor sugar sprinkled over. 366.—Canadian Pudding. Make a custard with half a pint of milk, 4 yolks of eggs, and a little sugar. Boil 2 tablespoonfuls of corn flour in 1J pint of milk with a little sugar ; let it get cool. Then fill a deep dish with layers of jam, custard, and the corn flour mixture. Finally whisk the whites to a stiff' froth with some sifted sugar ; place it on the top of the layers and bake it till just set, and serve in the same dish. Another way.—Proceed as above, but use a thick145 SWEETS. \ coffee or chocolate custard instead of plain custard, and l4ave out the jam. 367. —Almond Puddings. Boil half a pint of milk with 2 ounces of buttei’. Pour it over G ounces of bread-crumbs; add 12 peeled and pounded Jordan almonds, sugar to taste, and 2 Avell-beaten eggs. Bake it half an hour in buttered cups or little moulds. Serve hot. 367a.—Almond Cream. Peel and pound 2-| ounces of best almonds. Mix this with a pint of boiling cream ; add gradually 4 yolks of well-beaten eggs, a little sugar. Put this in a mould and steam till set; turn out when cold. 368. —Malvern Pudding. Line a bowl with slices of tolerably stale crumb of bread—the slices must be a quarter of an inch thick— then fill up the bowl with hot stewed fruit. Cover the top with more slices of crumb of bread; put it on one side till next day. Turn it out and serve with cream or custard poured over it. 369.—Marmalade Pudding. 2 eggs (weigh them), same weight of bread-crumbs; same of flour, of butter, of sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of146 WHOLESOME COOKERY. orange marmalade. Beat the butter and sugar to- gether till they are quite creamy in appearance; work in the eggs very lightly but thoroughly, then work in the bread-crumbs, and next the marmalade. Place in a pretty mould, and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with the following sauce :—1 tablespoon- ful of marmalade, 1 teacupful of sherry; boil the two together, and serve over or round the pudding. N.B.—Every ingredient of this pudding must be thoroughly well mixed in. 370.—Scotch Pudding. 12 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 7 of chopped suet, 4 of moist sugar, 4 of orange marmalade, the rind of 1 lemon grated, 4 eggs, half a teacupful of milk. Mix well together; put it in a mould and steam 3 hours. Serve hot. You can use jam in place of marmalade ; but if you do, you must omit the grated lemon-peel. 371.—Semolina Pudding. 4 ounces semolina, If pint of milk, 24 ounces of sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs, some sultana raisins, candied citron or lemon peel, and some fresh lemon-peel. Boil the fresh lemon-peel in the milk; sprinkle the semolina in by degrees; stir carefully so as to keep the mixture very smooth. Boil a few minutes, stirring all the time. Move it off the fire; put in the sugar147 SWEETS. and the 4 eggs. Have a buttered mould, decorated with raisins, candied peels. Pour in the mixture and steam it for half an hour. Serve hot with a wine or fruit sauce, or cold with custard. Fruit sauce is made by melting any fruit jelly you may have over the fire, with a very small proportion of water. 372—Buff Pudding. I pint of milk, 3 ounces of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, G ordinary-sized lumps of sugar, 1 pinch of salt. Mix the flour by degrees to the milk with the salt; boil it till quite thick; then take it off the fire, and stir in the butter, sugar, and some finely grated lemon-peel. Let it stand till cold; beat in 3 eggs. Have a dish lined with paste; pour in the mixture; bake in a quick oven 20 minutes, and decorate with a few lumps of marmalade. Good hot, but better cold. 373.—Crumb Pudding. II tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 4 eggs, a little very finely chopped lemon-peel (or candied peel, if preferred), a few sultana raisins or currants. Butter a pie-dish well, and strew in the raisins, etc. Beat the eggs, and mix them with the milk; add to it the bread-crumbs, sugai’, lemon-peel. Pour it into a pie-dish, and bake it.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 148 Turn out and serve with sifted sugar over, or with melted red or black currant jelly. 374.—De Grey Pudding. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream; then heat in half a pound of sugar, then half a pound of flour, then 4 yolks of eggs, then some chopped candied fruits; lastly, whisk 4 whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix it up with the other ingredients. Have a well-buttered mould ; ornament it with candied fruits. Pour in the mixture and steam it for 3 hours. Serve hot, with a wine sauce. 375.—Apple Charlotte. Cut some cooking apples in very thin slices. Place some very thin slices of crumb of bread at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of the apples, a few lumps of butter ; sprinkle with sugar. Fill the pie-dish with alternate layers of apple, bread, butter, and sugar. Bake about an hour; turn out of the dish, and serve hot or cold. 376.—Open Apple Tart. Peel and core some apples; cut them up; put them in a saucepan, with a good-sized lump of butter, some finely chopped lemon-peel; and some sugar* Stew till very soft and smooth. Beat up 1 or 2 eggs; mix withSWEETS. 149 the above. Have a shallow dish lined with pastry; put in the apple mixture, and bake. Very good hot and cold. 377. —Orange Jelly. Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in 1 pint of water. Rub half a pound of sugar on the rinds of 5 oranges and 1 lemon. Squeeze out the juice; boil it up with the sugar and water; strain it; whisk it nearly cold, and put it in a mould to set. Another way.—The juice of 8 oranges, rinds and juice of 2 lemons, rinds of 2 oranges. Grate the rinds of the lemons and oranges over half a pound of sugar. Put it into a bason; squeeze over it the juice of the oranges and lemons; be very careful to leave out the. pips. Add 1 pint of water. Put this'in a saucepan; add 3 parts of a tumbler of sherry. Have whisked the whites of 4 eggs; add it to the above mixture with the shells, then 1 ounce of dissolved gelatine. Stir it all together, and let it sloivly boil. When it boils, leave it 3 minutes; take it olf the fire and let it stand another 3 minutes. Rinse a jelly bag in warm water, wring it out thoroughly; pour the jelly in, and let it strain through into a mould. • 378. —Claret Jelly. 1 bottle of ^gjaret, juice and rind of 1 lemon, 1 pot of red currant jelly, 1 wine-glassful of brandy, halfWHOLESOME COOKERY. 150 a pound of loaf sugar, 1 ounce of gelatine. Boil to- gether for 5 minutes; strain them into a mould. Serve next day with whipped cream. Half this quantity makes a fair-sized sweet. 379. —Apple Cheese. Peel and core the apples, and cut them into quarters. Stew them till slightly reduced; add three- quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of apple, and a little powdered cinnamon. Boil for about 3 hours; in fact, till the apples are boiled to a pulp. Put it in pots or moulds for use. Very good served as a sweet, with custard or whipped cream over. Half a teaspoonful of cinnamon to 5 pounds of fruit is sufficient. 380. —Orange Salad. Peel the oranges, and remove the outside white skin; cut them into slices; remove the pips. Place them in layers on the dish they are to he served in; between each layer sprinkle some castor sugar and pour over a little rum or brandy. 381.—Stewed Prunes. Half a pound of prunes, 2 teacupfuls of water, 1 wine-glassful of claret or other wine, 2\ ounces of sugar, a little lemon-peel. Simmer very carefullySWEETS. 151 till the prunes are quite cooked; they ought to be soft and much swollen. Take them out and boil the syrup till thick. 382.—Corn Flour Mould. 1 ounce of corn flour, 1 pint of milk. Mix well together ; sugar to taste. Boil for 10 minutes; put it in a mould, and let it stand till quite cold and set. Turn it out, and serve round it stewed fruits or jam, or a coffee custard. 383.—Lemon Paste for Cheese-Cakes. 1 pound of loaf sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, 4 whites of eggs, juice of 4 lemons, the rind of 3 grated lemons, quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Put it all in a pan and melt it. Must be about the thickness of honey. Put it in pots, and when cold cover it as you would jam. Use for tartlets and tarts. 384.—Cheese-Cakes. Boil 1 pint of milk ; add 1 tablespoonful of ordinary vinegar (which will turn the milk to curds); put it in a sieve to drain. When thoroughly drained, beat it up with 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, a little grated lemon, or currants, and sugar to taste. Use it to bake in tartlets.152 WHOLESOME COOKERY. The following recipes have been made in one of Wolffs American freezing machines, which is a very simple one, and easily used. I believe there are many others equally good, but I have not tried them. Ices can be simply made. For instance, an ordinary gooseberry fool iced is good; the remains of some stewed fruit, rubbed through a hair sieve and added to custard or cream, make a good and simple ice. To clarify Sugar for Fruit Water Ices. Melt 4 pounds of sugar in 4 pints of water over the fire; when it boils, beat in the white of one egg well whisked. Let it boil about 10 minutes. Strain it and bottle it. 385.—Orange or Lemon Water Ice. Squeeze the juice from a sufficient number of oranges or lemons to make one quart. Melt 1 tea- cupful of sugar in 1 teacupful of boiling water ; stir this into the fruit juice. When it is cold, put it in a mould and freeze it. N.B.—The above quantity of sugar does not make a very sweet ice ; if very sweet ices are liked, the quantity can be increased. 386—Coffee Cream Ice. 6 or 8 yolks of eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of strong coffee, 1 pint of milk, 8 ounces of sugar. Stir all to-SWEETS. 153 aether over the fire till set, but do not allow the O mixture to boil. Strain it through a hair sieve. Add half a pint of double cream; put it into the mould and freeze it. 387.—Chocolate Cream Ice. Make exactly as the coffee cream ice, simply using 6 ounces of chocolate boiled in water or milk instead of the coffee. 388.—Vanilla Cream Ice. Make exactly like the coffee ice, but leave out the coffee; use an extra half-pint of milk and some essence of vanilla. 389. —Fruit Cream Ice. Pound any fruit liked with sifted sugar; rub it through a sieve; add cream. Put it in a mould and freeze. 390. —Parfait au Cafe. Boil 1 pint of milk; take it off the fire, and stir in 1 pint of strong coffee. Now put in a saucepan 8 yolks of eggs and 10 ounces of sugar. Stir the milk in. Place the saucepan on the fire, and whisk the mixture until it is just on the boil; then take it off the fire, let it become cold, and strain it. Put it in a mould and freeze it. When half frozen, stir in a wine-glassful of cura^oa or rum; finish freezing it. Serve immediately on a d’oyley.3 54: WHOLESOME COOKERY. 391.—Iced Souffle. Mix in a saucepan G yolks of eggs, with 4 ounces of clarified sugar. Whisk this over the fire until it nearly boils; take it off the fire at once. Continue whisking till the mixture is nearly cold. Add to it 1 quart of whisked double cream and a glass of rum or curatjoa. Have your souffle lining standing on ice, so as to get it thoroughly cold ; this is important. Fix a band of paper about 2 inches above the dish; pour in the mixture, almost as high as the paper; cover the mould completely, and embed it in ice and salt. 2 hours’ freezing is about the time it will take. Then take off the paper, strew biscuit powder lightly on the top, and serve. Souffles can be flavoured with the juice of fruit, or coffee, or chocolate, or vanilla, etc.( 155 ) SAVOURY DISHES. 392.—Ham Toast. Put some very finely minced ham in a saucepan, with a little gravy, a few bread-crumbs, and a little cream, if you have it; let it simmer till quite hot, and serve it on buttered toast. 393. —Marrow Toast. Break a marrow-bone; take out the marrow, and cut it into small pieces. Put the marrow into boiling- water with a little salt, and boil it one minute so as to half cook it; then drain it immediately on a sieve. Chop up some parsley; put it in a saucepan, with pepper, salt, a little lemon-juice, and the marrow. Toss it all together for a few minutes on the fire, spread it on hot toast, and serve it at once. 394. —Kidney Toast. Have a cold cooked veal kidney; cut it into very small pieces; pound it in a mortar with pepper, salt, and some boiled onion; stir in 1 egg well beaten. Simmer together over the fire, and serve on toast.156 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 395.—German Toast. Any remains of fricassee or hash. Chop it up finely, with some parsley, onion, pepper, and salt; add a well-beaten egg; put it to stew in some gravy; let it reduce and thicken. When cold, pile it up on square pieces of toast; lay some slices of hard-boiled egg on the top; brush with beaten egg; sprinkle with fine bread-crumbs; bake in the oven. Squeeze some lemon-juice over, and serve. 396.—Cheese Omelet. Beat up 6 eggs in the usual manner; add a tea- cupful of thick cream, about 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and some pepper and salt. Cook the omelet in the usual manner. 397.—Sardine Salad. 6 eggs boiled hard, 6 onions peeled and boiled, 6 sardines with their skins off. Cut the onions and eggs in slices; put them in a salad bowl, with layers of sardines between them; sprinkle pepper, salt, chopped tarragon, chervil, and parsley; dress with oil and vinegar, and serve.157 SAVOURY DISHES. 398.—Macaroni “au Gratin.” 4 ounces of macaroni, 1 ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 ounce of grated Gruyere cheese, 1 ounce of butter divided in small lumps. Blend a little Hour in H teacupful of milk or cream; add a quarter of an ounce of butter, finely chopped parsley and onion, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir this all over the fire till the sauce is thick; pass through a fine hair sieve. Boil the macaroni in salt and water; when cooked, pour in some cold water; then take out the macaroni at once and drain it. Now stir into the macaroni the above sauce, nearly all the cheese, and the butter; place in a buttered baking-dish; sprinkle the re- mainder of cheese and a little hot butter on the top, and bake till a good gold colour. N.B.—Cold water is poured on the macaroni as soon as it is cooked with the intention of keeping it firm. Another way.—3§ ounces of macaroni. Boil it in 2} pints of stock or milk about 20 minutes; pour in some cold water; take the macaroni out at once; let it drain thoroughly. Have ready 3J ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and 1 ounce of butter. Place the macaroni in a baking-dish; sprinkle the cheese in between the layers ; place the butter on the top in small lumps; bake it about 10 minutes, or until a pale gold colour. Serve.WHOLESOME COOKERY. 158 399.—Fondue. Allow as many eggs as there are persons. Weigh the eggs; take as much butter as will equal half the weight of eggs; then take as much grated Gruyere cheese as will equal a third of the weight of eggs. Break and beat up the eggs thoroughly in a saucepan; add the butter and cheese; place the saucepan on the fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it is as thick as a custard; add some pepper, and if it requires it, salt also. Serve at once. This dish must not boil. 400.—Cheese Fritters. Stir half a pint of water, 2 ounces of butter, and a pinch of salt over the fire until it boils ; throw in 3 ounces of flour and 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir it quickly till cooked ; then add, one by one, 3 eggs well beaten; stir frequently. Now with a spoon take some small pieces of the mixture and fry in boiling fat. Dish up on a napkin with water- cress. 401.—Cheese Toast. Quarter of a pound of grated cheese. Pound it in a mortar, with half an ounce of butter and 1 egg. Cut some slices of bread; toast and butter them on both sides; spread the above mixture on half an inch thick, and bake about 4 minutes. It should rise, and must be eaten at once.159 SAVOURY DISITES. 402.—Cheese Pudding. Warm 1 ounce of butter in a quarter of a pint ol milk; mix it with 3 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and 5 ounces of bread-crumbs; add 2 wdll-beaten eggs and salt to taste. Bake half an hour, and serve at once. 403.—Cheese Straws. 3 ounces of flour, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces of grated cheese, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper. Rub the butter into the dour, then the cheese, pepper, and salt; mix all thoroughly well. Add 1 yolk of egg; roll the mixture, cut it into lengths, and bake in a cool oven. 404. —Stewed Cheese. Grate 2 ounces of cheese; mix it with 1 tea- cupful of cream; add 1 beaten egg; stew it in a small saucepan with 1 ounce of butter (melt the butter before putting in the cheese). Serve when all thoroughly mixed. 405. —Toasted Cheese. Cut some Cheddar cheese in dakes; put it in the oven, and when quite dissolved, stir it up with pepper and English mustard. Another way.—Mix the cheese in a saucepan, with a little milk or beer and a little mustard. When it is a smooth paste, serve it up on buttered toast.1 GO WHOLESOME COOKERY. 406.—Cheese Souffle. 3 tablespoonfuls of Hour, half a pint of milk, 2 ounces of butter. Stir all this well over the fire ; when quite mixed and smooth, add 6 ounces of grated cheese. Let it cool; then add the beaten yolks of 4 eggs; at the very last add 4 whites of eggs #well whisked. Flavour with pepper and salt; bake half an hour, and serve at once. 407. —Hot Sandwiches. Bone, skin, and pound some sardines with a little anchovy paste and butter and lemon-juice. Have some thin slices of bread and butter, and lay the paste between two slices to form a sandwich; then, fry each sandwich, and serve them up hot. 408. —Savoury Oysters. Beard them; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; wrap each oyster in a very thin slice of fat bacon; skewer them and cook them before the fire. Serve on toast or fried sippets. 409.—Cold Anchovy Toast. Cut some slices of bread into equal sizes and fry them in oil; place them on a dish; lay some fillets of anchovy or sardine on each piece. Now add to the oil you fried the bread in, some minced shallot, parsley,161 SAVOURY DISHES. thyme, a bay leaf, pepper, and a little vinegar. Boil this together; strain it; pour over the toasts, and serve them when they are cold. 410.—Sardine Toast. Pound a few boned and skinned sardines (say 4) Avith 1 teaspoonful of gravy, 1 ounce of butter, and pepper. Make it hot, and serve on fried sippets or buttered toast. 411.—Anchovy Toast. Butter some toast; spread a little anchovy paste over. Now put the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs in a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of cream; set it to thicken over the fire, but not to boil. Season with cayenne; pour it over the toast (which ought to have been kept hot), and serve. N.B.—A pinch of grated cheese added to the sauce is considered by some an improvement. Of course, it must be cooked with the sauce. Another way.—3 ounces of butter, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper, half a pint of cream. Simmer till thick with 1 teaspoonful of flour. Pour it over some buttered toast, and serve very hot. This quantity makes enough for ten persons. Milk can be used in place of cream, but the toast is, of course, not so good. MWHOLESOME COOKERY. 162 BREAD, ETC. 412.—Bread. Flour, 4 pounds; German yeast, 1 ounce; about a quarter of an ounce of salt; water, 1 pint. Put the flour and salt into a good-sized earthen pan; cover with a cloth, and put before the fire to get warm. Then make a hole in the middle large enough to hold a pint of water. Mix the yeast in the water, which must be warm, not hot; rub it down till the yeast and water are thoroughly mixed—no lumps—then pour it into the hole in the flour, and sprinkle some of the flour over the hole so as to make it perfectly invisible. Cover with the cloth, and set by the fire again. Let it stand there till the flour over the hole cracks in more than one place; then work it up into a light dough. Be very particular to use only the tips of the fingers. Knead it well till you see little air bubbles; then set it by the fire again for a little while, till it feels very light to the touch. You may now tear pieces off (do not cut with a knife). Make into what shape or size you wish. Put it on a floured tin in the oven—not too hot a one. Bake till the loaves rise, crack, and are a good colour. When taken out of the oven, throw a cloth over to keep them in. If required lighter, try 3 pounds of flour instead of 4 pounds.BREAD, ETC. 163 413.—Home-made Bread quickly made. Mix very thoroughly one heaped-up teaspoonful of Yeatman’s yeast powder with 1 pound of Hungarian flour and a little salt; pour on half a pint of cold milk or water; make it into a loaf, or put it in a tin, and immediately into a hot oven. Bake. When the bread has risen, open the oven door for a minute to let out the steam. This dough does not require much kneading. 414.—Home-made Rolls quickly made. 1 quart of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoon- fuls of Yeatman’s yeast powder, 1 tablespoonful of butter, and about 1 pint of milk, not more. Mix the flour, salt, and powder thoroughly together; rub in the butter, add the milk; work it into a firm dough. Flour the board; knead the dough on it two or three times very quickly. Divide it into nicely shaped round pieces; lay them on a greased baking-tin, wash them over with milk, and bake in a hot oven. Will take about 15 minutes. Must be baked as soon as made. 415.—Vienna Rolls. Mix 1 ounce of dry German yeast with 1 ounce of pounded sugar and 2 ounces of butter; then stir into it 1 pint of warm milk. Have 2 pounds of164 WHOLESOME COOKERY. flour mixed with 2 eggs and some salt. Stir the milk and yeast gradually into the flour; mix it all up very thoroughly. Let it stand in a warm place for three hours; then divide it into small shapes. Flour some tins ; place the rolls upon them, and let them stand for about 20 minutes in a warm place. Bake in a quick oven for about 15 minutes; rub them over with a little sugar and water, and finish baking a few minutes longer. 416.—Spice Cake. 1 teacupful of butter, 1 teacupful of brown sugar, 1 pint of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 tea- spoonful of carraway essence, 1 of nutmeg essence, 1 of cinnamon essence, 1 of ginger essence, and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix the flour, sugar, and powder; rub it in the butter; add the milk and essences. Mix it to a batter; fill a greased tin or small patty pans, and bake in a hot oven. Will take about 10 minutes. Another way.—1 teacupful of milk, 1 teacupful of butter, 3 teacupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 2 eggs, half a teacupful of stoned raisins and half a teacupful of currants, 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg essence, 1 of clove essence, and 1 of cinnamon essence. Kub the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, first one, then the other; beat between each. Mix the flour and powder together, and then add it to the other things, with the fruit, essences, and milk; beatBREAD, ETC. 1G5 it to a smooth batter. Line a tin with a greased paper, and bake about half an hour. 417.—Short Cakes. H pint of flour, small teaspoonful of salt, 4 table- spoonfuls of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of baking powder, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of essence of orange. Mix the flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in the butter cold; add the beaten eggs and nearly all the milk, then the essence. Mix it all quickly into a smooth dough with the Angers, not the hands. Flour the board; put the dough on it, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it into squares; lay them on a baking-tin; wash them over with the rest of the milk; lay some sliced candied peels on the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Will take about 20 minutes. 418. —Potato Cakes. Mash 2 pounds of cooked potatoes, with half a pound of flour, salt to taste, and sufficient milk to bind. Roll it out; cut it into small rounds, and bake on a hot iron plate or in the oven. 419. —Rock Cakes. Half a pound of flour, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces of currants, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, half a table- spoonful of baking powder. Mix the powder and flour166 WHOLESOME COOKERY. first; add the sugar and currants, then rub in the butter; next, enough milk to make it stiff’ (about 1 teacupful of milk will be sufficient). Bake ill nicely shaped pieces. They must not look smooth. N.B.—Rock cakes can also be made, and are very good, with 1 pound of flour, quarter of a pound of dripping, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of baking powder, 2 ounces of currants, 2 ounces of sultanas, and 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar. 420.—Scones. 1 pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 1 tablespoonful of baking powder. Mix with milk (sour if possible). Roll out into squares and bake. 421.—Dundee Cake. 8 eggs, 2 teacupfuls of butter, 14 teacupful of sugar, 1J pint of Hungarian flour, a cupful of currants, 14 cupful of sultana raisins, a little grated nutmeg, a little essence of vanilla, 1 cupful of pounded Jordan almonds, and a little candied peel cut in thin slices. Rub the sugar and butter together to a white cream ; add the eggs two at a time—beat 3 or 4 minutes between each. Have all the other ingredients well mixed together, and then add them to the sugar, butter, and eggs. Mix all firmly together. Have a shallow tin lined with a greased paper; pour in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven. Will take about 14 hour.167 BLEAT), ETC. 422— Directions for Oyster Patties Paste. Strain the juice of 1 lemon in 1 gill of water (cold). Beat 1 egg to a stiff froth, and mix with above. Put three-quarters of a pound of dried flour into a bowl, and stir in the above liquid ; knead it to a smooth paste. Lay it on a slab, and spread over it three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter. Turn over the four sides ; dredge with flour and roll it out four times ; then fold it in three and let it stand in a cool place for 2 hours. Have ready two round paste-cutters, one 2J inches across, the other lb inch. Roll out the paste a third of an inch thick and make your patties. The stewed oysters must be put in after the patties have been baked. 423.—Directions and Proportions for Pastry. 12 ounces of flour, 4J ounces lard, 4J ounces of butter, 1 teacupful of water, and a little salt. Mix the lard and flour together; rub it with the fingers (not the hands) as lightly as possible and as quickly as you can; add the water, and work it lightly into a paste. Roll the paste out, and spread upon it one-third of the butter; roll it again and spread again one-third of butter; do this again, when all the butter will be used. Double it over and put it in a bowl, and let it stand for 2 hours before cutting for use. N.B.—The more you roll it the heavier the paste will become ; so take care.108 WHOLESOME COOKEBY. SUNDRIES. 424.—Quince Jam or Cheese. Slice the quinces (after they are peeled and cored). Put them in a stewpan, with sufficient water for them to float; stir carefully from the bottom; stew till reduced to a pulp, then weigh the pulp. Add three- quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of pulp, and stew till set. Put in pots and cover tightly. N.B.—3 or 4 apples to every 12 quinces is by some considered an improvement. Some boil the quince seeds and peel in the water, then strain it and use it with the quinces instead of plain water. If put in moulds, the quince can be turned out, and served as a sweet with custard or cream poured round it. 425.—Pickled Lemons. Wipe 6 lemons; cut each lemon into 8 pieces; put Ion them a pound of salt, 6 cloves of garlic, 2 ounces of horse-radish thinly sliced, 2 ounces of cloves, 2 ounces of mace, 2 ounces of mustard, quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg, quarter of an ounce of ca}Tenne, 2 } ISUNDRIES. 169 quarts of vinegar. Put all this in a large jar; place the jar at the side of the fire, or in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer till you think the lemons are cooked ; then take it off. When cold, cover it with a lid which fits. Stir every day for G weeks. Put it into small bottles; cover them tightly,and keep for use. 426.—To make Coffee (French Fashion). For each small coffee-cupful of water allow half an ounce of coffee. Put the coffee in the upper part of the coffee-pot (the ordinary French cafetiere, which is made in tin and in china) ; pour the boiling water over, and let it stand till the water has run through. Must be as clear as wine. Be sure to lift off that part of the coffee-pot which holds the grains before you move the coffee-pot, or you may get a little coffee grounds shaken into the coffee. There is no excuse for not always having good coffee, provided two things are remembered: 1st. That the coffee provided must be coffee and not chicory. 2nd. That the cook must measure the zuater and weigh the coffee on each occasion : if she once attempts to guess at her quan- tities, bad coffee will be the result. It is better always to roast and grind the coffee at home, which is easily done. Put the beans on a baking tin in the oven, each bean separately; leave them about 10 minutes, or until they are a rich brown. I alwaysWHOLESOME CO OKER Y. 170 roast each day the coffee which is required for that day. If there is any coffee not used, it ought not to be thrown away. The coffee will keep if put in a bottle at once and tightly corked. It can then be used for a coffee custard or cream. 427.—To make Coffee (Turkish Fashion). Grind the coffee very fine. Take the same propor- tions you would for French-made coffee (perhaps rather more water to allow of boiling away). Put the water into a saucepan, with a lump of sugar; when boiling hard, throw in the coffee; let it come to a boil. Lift it off the fire as soon as it bubbles, then put it on the fire again; lift it off as soon as it bubbles; do this a third time. Now throw in a spoonful of cold filtered water to settle the grounds; leave it quiet one minute, and pour carefully into cups. Will have a thick yellow froth at the top. Serve without milk. The coffee, as usual, to be freshly roasted, and on this occasion finely ground. 428.—To make Chocolate. Cut up 1 tablet of chocolate in very small pieces, blend it in a little hot water or hot milk; then add enough hot water or hot milk to make up a breakfast cup. Boil 2 or 3 minutes, stirring all the time. N.B.—Some people find chocolate made with milk171 SUNDMES. alone does not agree with them. In those cases use water, and add a little cold milk when you drink it. I find the best chocolate for this purpose is that of the Compagnie Coloniale, without vanilla. 429.—Meat Tea. Take 1 pound of lean beef, mutton, or chicken. Cut it into very small pieces; put it in a jar with 1 pint of cold water; put the jar in a saucepan of cold water, and let it gradually become warm, and let it simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It must not boil. Pass it through a hair sieve; flavour with salt, and, if liked, pepper. This meat tea can be taken plain, or thick- ened with sago, arrowroot, or bread-crumbs; or a little cream can be stirred in, or a couple of yolks of eggs, if the patient is allowed eggs. 430.—Barley Cream. 1 pound of veal. Skin it, and remove all fat; cut it in pieces, and put it in 1 quart of cold water and 1 ounce of barley. Simmer it slowly till it is reduced to 1 pint. Strain the liquor through a sieve, and then rub the meat and barley through a sieve. Add the liquor to it; it ought to be of the consistency of thick cream. Add salt to taste; and if the patient is allowed cream, a tablespoonful of cream well beaten in is an improvement.172 WHOLESOME COOKEBY. 431.—Panade. Cut up small 2 pounds of juicy rumpsteak, or a whole fowl, or a pheasant (freshly killed). Put it in a jar ; cover this jar tightly with a paper, and prick a few holes into the paper. Place the jar in a saucepan of cold water; the water ought to reach nearly to the top of the jar, but not sufficiently to come over. Fit the lid of the saucepan very tightly on, and let it simmer gently nearly all day. Pour off the small quantity of liquid which will have been extracted from the meat, and let it stand for the fat to rise and be removed. Now take the meat, pound it in a mortar, and run it through a sieve into the liquid. Add a little salt. Will be about the consistency of thick cream, and is easily digested. Can be used hot or cold. 432.—Potted Meat. Cut some fresh rumpsteak into small pieces; put it all, fat and lean, into a jar with half a teacupful of water. Put the jar in a saucepan of water; cover the jar up tight, and let the contents simmer till quite tender. Pound it now in a mortar, adding its own gravy by degrees ; flavour with pepper and salt. Place it in jars, and cover with hot melted butter, if it is to be kept any time. This potted meat is excellent used for sandwiches, but it is better to make only a small quantity at a time.S UNDRIES. 173 433.—Orange Marmalade. Weigh the oranges, and cut them in halves or quarters. Take the peel off each half or quarter. Take the pips and skin from the fruit, and press it through a hair sieve. Soak the peel all night in water slightly salted; next day boil it in cold water, changing the water frequently. When the peel is soft, take it out; let it drain, then cut it into shreds or long strips. Now ptit the peel and the strained pulp into water (allow half a pint of water to each pound of fruit); add sugar (1 pound to each pound of fruit), a little grated lemon-peel. Boil all together until it is thick and clear. Put it into well-covered jars ; keep some months before using. Will take from half to 1 hour to boiL 434.—To prepare Dripping for Use. Put the dripping in a saucepan; boil it over a slow fire for a few minutes ; skim it carefully ; let it stand to cool a little. Have a jar with some cold water at the bottom ; place a muslin over the top; pour the dripping through. When cold and set, remove the dripping from the water into another jar. N.B.—Dripping ought to be clarified as above each time it has been used ; and it can be used very many times, especially if you occasionally add a little fresh dripping.y 174 WIIOLESOME COOKERY. 435.—Hints for Frying. There must be a quantity of fat in the pan; the fat must bo as hot as possible; it must smoJce before it is ready for use. The things fried must be the colour of biscuits, and must be dry. If they are not, it is because there is not enough fat, or because it is not hot enough. The fat must always be clear, and have no specks; the same fat can be used frequently, and must be clarified always before using it again. 436.—To keep Butter for Winter Use. Put the butter, which must be quite fresh and without salt, in a large stewpan; let it gradually warm by the side of the fire for 1 or even 2 hours; if necessary, skim it. Now pour it into earthenware jars, taking care to leave the sediment in the pan, and not on any account to pour any into the jar. Cover the pots carefully, as you would jam, and keep for use. N.B.—When butter is very cheap, instead of salt- ing it and keeping it for winter cooking, it is very much better to proceed as above. Salt butter is not nice for cooking; I cannot repeat this too often. 437.—Proportions for Frying Batter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 yolk of egg, 1 spoonful ot salad oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir it up 1175 SUNDRIES. thoroughly; then add a tablespoonful of water, pepper, and salt. Let it stand for some hours, or indeed till next day. Before using it, whisk up 2 whites of egg to a stiff’ froth, and beat it in. (Another way is to use vinegar or brandy instead of the water.) Dip the pieces of meat or vegetable or fruit into this batter, then drop into boiling fat, and fry very dry and crisp. 438.—To beat Whites of Eggs quickly and stiffly. With the whites add a pinch of salt, and use a flat dish ; beat with a large steel knife, and always in the same direction. Must be used at once. 439.—To chop Parsley fine. Wash it, and dry it thoroughly before chopping it; if it is chopped damp, it sticks to the knife. 440.—Cock-Tail. 1 liqueur-glass of gin or brandy, l\ ditto of water, small quantity of Angustura bitters, a little lemon or fresh lime juice, sugar to taste. Whisk all up together. A little crushed ice is an improvement; but if ice be used, 1 liqueur-glass of water is sufficient. 441.—Plantagenet Liqueur. Max 1 bottle of brandy with 2 bottles best gin o'er wine; bottle the mixture, and cork it tightly down.176 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 442.—Suggestions for Different Salads. French beans, or cauliflowers, or a white cabbage, or the tops of asparagus, or celery, or beetroot and celery combined, when cooked and cold, make ex- cellent salads, either alone or together, if simply dressed with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt in proper propor- tions. Meat cut into fine shreds, with a few chopped pickles, and dressed with a mayonnaise sauce (the recipe of which is given in all cookery books), or cold fish dressed with the same sauce, are also excellent cold dishes. 443.—Indian Chutnee. Cold cooked potatoes. Mash them up very smooth; add some chopped green chili, and onions chopped small, salt, and lemon-juice. Mix all thoroughly together; put it in a small mould, press it tight, and turn it out to serve with curry. N.B.—The chili and onion must be chopped very fine. Raw tomatoes can be used instead of potatoes.INDEX RECIPE A Baked Gurnet 82 RECIPE }) Soles 52 Aiguebelle Fritters 210 yy Turbot 84 Almond Cream 367a yy Whitings 57 367 Banana Fritters 312 Anchovy Butter 122 Barley Cream 430 „ Sauce 99 yy Soup 18 „ Toast 411 Batter, Proportions for Fry. .. Cold 409 mg 437 Apple Charlotte 375 Bavaroise 329 „ Cheese 379 Beans, Brazilian Black 201 „ Tart 376 yy Brittany 198 Apples, Swiss 311 Broad, “ii, la Creme ” 200 Apricot Cream 332 yy Haricot, “ it la Pro- Artichoke and Tomato venial” 192 Salad 157 Haricot, Plain 193 „ Fritters 156 Bed, Puree of 196 „ Soup 13 White Haricot, Artichokes “ a la Creme”... 155 Puree of 199 ,, Italian 154 “ Bearnaise,” Sauce 116 „ Jerusalem, Glazed 159 Bechamel Sauce 98, 98a „ Puree of 158 Beef and Macaroni 235 ,, Scalloped 167 yy Fillet of, “ a la Puree ,, Stuffed 154a de Tomates” 236 Aspic 302 „ “aux CEufs “ Au Yin de Madfere,” Sauce 114 Poches” 233a “ AnxMilitaires,” Sauce ... 109 ,, Polish Fashion 231 yy ,, Roast 234a Fillets of, and Olives 233 B yy „ andOysters 234 ,, Sautes 232 Baked Chocolate Custard... 338 Galantine of, Cold ... 238 ,, Coffee Custard 341 Silver Side of, Stewed 237 „ Fish 64 Beetroot “ ii la Creme ” ... 1S2 NL78 INDEX. ItECIPE Beignets de Cervellos 255 ,, Souffles 365 Bird, Roastod 284 Boeuf, Langue de, au Gratin 261 „ „ Braisee... 260 Boiled Chocolate Custard 339 ,, Coffee Custard 340 Bonne Femme Soup ... 3 Border Mould, Vegetable... 189 Bouille it Baisse 61 ,, „ of Cod ... 60 Brains “ it l’Espagnole ” ... 252 ,, “it la Sauce” 254 „ “ en Matelote ” 253 „ Fried 251 ,, to prepare 250 Brandy Butter 128 Brazilian Black Beans 201 Bread 412 413 „ Soup, Plain 28a Breast of Mutton “ it la Sauce Piquante ” 244 Brittany Beans 198 Broad Beans “it la Creme” 200 Broiled Rabbit 293 „ Sole 48 „ Whitings 58a Brown Butter 121 „ Sago Soup 15 Brussels Sprouts, Dressed 146b „ „ Fried ... 146a Buff Pudding 372 Butter, French Melted 87 ,, Horse Radish 123 „ Maitre d’H6tel 124 ,, Ravigote 125 „ Sauce, Melted 88 „ Tarragon 126 „ to keep for Winter Use 436 Buttered Eggs 212 „ „ and Cheese 213 „ „ “auJus”... 214 „ „ Spanish ... 215 „ „ Whitings ... 58 0 BECIPE Cabbage “it la CrSme” ... 144 „ “ au Gratin ” 145 „ Salad, Red 183 Cabinet Pudding 309 Cafe, Mousse au 343 Cake, Dundee 421 „ Spice 416 Cakes, Potato 418 „ Rock 419 „ Short 417 Canadian Pudding 366 Capon “ a la Regence ” 283 Caramel Custard 326 „ Rice Mould 358 „ Semolina Mould... 360 Carrots “ it la Maitre d’ H6tel” 170 „ “it la Poulette”... 169 ,, Glazed 172 ,, Hashed 171 Cauliflower “ au Gratin” ... 140 „ Fritters 141 Cauliflowers, Scrambled ... 142 „ Tossed 143 Celery and Sauce 164 „ “auJus” 166 „ Fritters 165 „ Sauce 113 Cervelles, Beignets de 555 „ Frites 251 „ to prepare 250 Charlotte, Apple 375 Chartreuse de Legumes ... 208 “ Chateaubriand,” Sauce ... 110 Cheese and Buttered Eggs 113 „ and Salsifis 163 „ Apple 379 „ Cakes 384 „ „ Lemon Paste for 383 „ . Fritters 400 „ Omelet 396 „ Pudding 402 „ Quince 424 ,, Souffle 406 „ Stewed 404n-j INDEX. Cheese Straws RECirE Cream, Genoa iFfTPE „ Toast 401 a Orange 331 „ Toasted 405 33 Sauce 91 Chervil and Potato Soup .. 23 33 Set 337 Chestnut Soup 12 33 Snow 346 Chestnuts, Pur6e of 101 a Swiss 345 Chicken “ h la Champe 33 Tea 333 270 Velvet 336 “ it la Marengo ’ 268 Crecy Soup 24 „ “ it la Verez” 271 Creme it l’Imperatrice 344. „ Fried 273 33 Brulee (Cold) 327 „ Spanish 269 33 „ (Hot) 328 Chocolate Cream 335 Croustades 299 „ „ Ice 387 of Mushrooms 180 Custard, Baked 338 Crumb Pudding 373 „ » Boiled 339 Cucumbers “ it la Maitre „ Mousse au 342 d’Hotel 168 ,, Souffle 363 3 “a la Poulette ” 168a 428 Curried Eero's or Fee's- Chutnee, Indian 443 tables 188 “ Civet ” of Hare 292 33 Macaroni 184 Claret Jelly 378 33 Bice 205 Clear Soup 2 33 Soup 46 Cock-tail 440 33 Vegetables 187 59 Currv Sauce 90 „ Bouille it Baisse of 60 Custard, Baked Chocolate 338 „ Middle Cut of 62 33 „ Coffee 341 Coffee Cream 334 JJ Boiled Chocolate 339 386 JJ ,, Coffee 340 „ Custard, Baked 341 3) Caramel 326 „ „ Boiled 340 33 V enus 325 „ French Fashion 426 „ “Parfaitan” 390 „ Souffle 362 ,, Turkish Fashion .. 427 D Cold Anchovy Toast 409 „ Fish, to use up 67, 68 De Grey Pudding 374 „ Galantine of Beef .. 238 Devil Mixture 127 „ Bice Pudding, Plain.. 359 Dressed Brussels Sprouts... 146b Conde Soup 22 33 Endives 147 Corn Flour Mould 382 33 Salsifis 162 Cotelettes de Mouton 243 Dripping 434 Cream, Almond 367a Duck Douillet 274 ,, Apricot 332 33 Salmis of Wild 276 „ Barley 430 33 Stewed, and Olives... 275 „ Chocolate 335 33 „ and Turnips 277 „ Coffee 334 Dundee Cake 421 „ Fruit Ice 389INDEX. 180 RECIFE E Fine Herb Sauce 114 RECIPE Fish “ an Gratin’’ 68 Eol “ il la Minute ” 81 „ Baked « >> h la Ravigote ” 79 ,, Cold, to use up 67 (( a Suffron ” 80 „ Indian Way of Cooking 63 Egg Curry 188 ,, Sauce, Swiss 92 Eggs “ it la Neigo ” 350 ., Small 73 “ilia Tripe” 221 Flemish Mackerel... 69 if and Fine Herbs 216 Fonds d’Artichauds Soup... 13 >» “ aux Asperges ” 219 Fondue 399 ff “ aux Macarons ” ... 349 Foreign Stew 245 if “ aux Pistaohes ” 351 Fowl “ it la Marengo ” 268 Buttered 212 „ “ h la Verez ” 271 „ and Cheese 213 „ “auRiz” 272 „ “auJus”... 214 ,, Stew 282 if „ Spanish 215 Francatelli’s Bonne Femme a “en Matelote” 217 Soup 3 Italian 211 French Coffee 426 poached, and Tomato ,, Fritters 365 Sauce 218 „ Melted Butter 87 i) Spanish 215 ,, Pancakes 323 “ sur le Plat ” 220 Fricandeau of Veal 218 to beat Whites of ... 438 Fricassee of Mushrooms ... 179 Endives, Dressed 147 Fried Brussels Sprouts ... 146a English Clear Soup 2 ,, Chicken 273 ,, Oysters 307 „ Potatoes, Plain 129 F „ Smelts 72 Fritters, Aiguebelle 210 Faubonne E?oup 25 „ Artichoke 156 Faverges Potatoes 133b „ Banana 312 Fig Mould 318 „ Cauliflower 141 Fillet of Beef “aux GEufs „ Celery 165 Poches” 233a „ Cheese 400 „ “ Braise, a la „ Salsifis 161 Puree de Frittura, Mixed 256 Tomates ” 236 Fruit Cream Ice 3S9 „ Polish 231 ,, Water Ices 384 „ Roast 234a Frying Batter 437 Veal “ aux An- „ Hints for 435 chois ” 249 Fillets of Beef and Olives 233 ,, „ and Oysters 234 G , ,, Sautes 232 Eel 79 Galantine of Beef, Cold ... 238 ... Salmon 76 Game Souffle 2S9 Whiting and „ Soup 36 Mushrooms 56 „ Stew 282INDEX. 181 RECIl'E Garlic Sauce US Genoa Cream 330 German Pudding Sauce ... 119 „ Toast 395 Gherkin Sauce 107 Glazed Carrots 172 „ Jerusalem Arti- chokes 159 „ Turnips 176 Goose stuffed with Chest- nuts 278 Gothic Sauce Ill Gratin of Cabbage 145 „ Cauliflower 140 „ Fish 68 „ Macaroni 398 „ Ox Tongue 261 ,, Potatoes 132 „ Sole 53 „ Tomatoes 178 „ TArbot 83 „ Turnips 174 Green Peas, Puree of 197 „ Sauce 97 Grilled Salmon 78 Gurnet, Baked 82 H Ham “an Vin de Mad&re ” 296 ,, Omelet 229 ,, Toast 332 Hare, “ Civet” of „ Boast 292 291 Haricot Beans “ a la Pro- venial... 192 .. >. Plain 193 „ „ White, Puree of 199 ,, of Mutton 239 Hashed Carrots 171 „ Leeks 152 Herb Sauce 115 „ Soup 16 Herrings “it la Maitre d’ H6tel” 71a „ “au Beurre Noir” 70b ItECIPK Hints for Frying 435 Home-made Bread 412,413 ,, Bolls 414 Horse-radish Butter 123 „ Sauce 101 Hot Polish Salad 183 „ Sandwiches 407 Hung Mutton 240 I Ice, Chocolate Cream 387 „ Coffee Cream 386 „ Fruit Cream 389 „ Lemon Water 385 „ Orange Water 385 ,, Vanilla Cream 388 Iced Souffle 391 Indian Chutnee 443 „ Way of Cooking Fish 63 Italian Artichokes 154 Eggs 211 „ Potatoes 138 „ Sauce 102 „ Soup 6 J • Jam, Quince 424 Jelly, Aspic or Meat 302 „ Claret 378 „ Orange 377 Jerusalem Artichokes, Glazed... 159 ,, ,, Scalloped 167 Julienne Soup 26 Junket 348 K Kidney Toast 392 Kidneys, Stewed Sheep’s... 265 Kromeskys 308 „ Ovster 301 N 3182 INDEX. L Langue da Bceuf au Gratin ,, „ Braisee... Larlcs, Stewed Leeks, Hashed „ Whole Leg of Mutton “ a l’Alle- mande ” „ ,, Stewed ... Legumes, Chartreuse de ... ,, Timbale de Lemon Paste ,, Water Ice Lemons, Pickled Lent Soup Lentil and Sorrel Soup ... „ Soup Lentils „ Puree of Lettuce Soup Liqueur, Plantagenet Liver “ si l’ltalienne ” „ “ a la Menagere ” ... ,, Stuffing Livonian Soup M Macaroni and Beef „ and Tomato „ “au Gratin” „ Curried „ “ en Timbale ” ... ,, Soup Macedoine, Vegetable Macedonian Soup Mackerel “a l’Allemande” „ “a la Maitre d’ H6tel ” „ “ au Beurre Noir ” „ Flemish Madeira Sauce Maitre d’Ho tel Butter Malvern Pudding Maraschino Toast Marmalade, Orange „ Pudding BmirE Marrow Toast 393 Meat and Vegetable Sauce 119a „ Jelly or Aspic 302 „ Potted 432 „ Tea 429 “Melangee,” Sauce 108 Melted Butter 87 „ „ Sauce “ au Beurre”... 88 Militaires, Sauce aux 109 Mincemeat 322 Mixed Frittura 256 Monaco Soup 41 Mould, Caramel Rice 358 „ „ Semolina... 360 ,, Corn Flour 382 „ Fig 318 „ Plain Rice 357 ,, Prune 319 „ Rice 300 „ Savoury 247 „ Vegetable Border... 189 Mousse au Cafe 342 „ au Choeolat 341 Mullet, Red 85 Mulligatawny Soup 45 Mushrooms, “ a la Borde- laise” 181 ,, Croustadesof 180 „ Fricassee of ... 179 Mustard Sauce 103 Mutton Cutlets “ aux Ognons ” 243 „ Haricot of 239 „ Hung 240 ,, Neck of, Stewed... 246 „ Tongues “a la Puree ” 259 „ „ in Cases 25S „ „ to prepare 257 N Neapolitan Rice 204 Neck of Mutton, Stewed ... 246 Nirnes Sauce 117 Normaude, Sole, or Sole “ au Gratin ” 53 ltKCIPE 261 260 281 152 153 241 242 208 190 383 385 425 10 37 23 194 195 27 44 L 264 263 266 5 235 186 398 184 185 7 149 4 70a 71 70 69 114 124 368 315 433 3691S3 INDEX 0 KKCll'K (Enfs It la Neige 350 „ aux Macarons 349 „ aux Pistaches 351 Okra and Tomato Soup 20 Omelet % 222 „ “ a la Jardiniere ” 228 ,, “ h la Robespierre ” 353 „ “ it la Soubise ” 226 „ aud Tomato 225 „ “ au Rhuin ” 355 „ “aux Confitures”... 354 „ “auxOgnons” 227 ,, Cheese 396 „ Ham 223 „ “Souffle” 356 „ Sweet 352 „ Truffled 230 Omelets, Savoury 224 Onion and Tomato Salad ... 207 „ Soup 44 Onions “ a la Creme ” 150 „ “auJus” 151 Orange Cream 331 „ Jelly 377 „ Marmalade 433 „ Salad 380 „ Water Ice 385 Ox Tail 262 „ Tongue “ an Gratin’’ ... 261 „ ,, “ Braisee ” 260 Oyster Kromeskys 301 „ Patties Paste 422 „ Soup 11 Oysters, Fried 307 „ Savoury 408 P Pain Perdu 313 Panade 431 Pancakes, French 323 Parfait au Cafe 390 Parisian Potatoes 137 „ Soup 39 • np-cips Parsley, to chop fino ...... 439 Partridges “ a l’Estouf- lade ” 286 „ “ it la Parisi- onne” 285 „ “a la Portu- gaise ” 287 „ Salmis of 288 Pastry, Directions and Pro- portions for 423 „ Rissoles 306 Pea and Rice Soup 34 „ Soup 30 Pears, Stewed 317 Peas, Split Green, Puree of 197 Peasant Soup 9 Pheasant “ eu Souffle ” 289 Pickled Lemons 425 Piedmontese Soup 21 Pigeons and Prawns 280 „ Stewed 279 Plain Bread Soup 28a „ Haricot Beans 193 „ Rice Mould 357 „ Souffle 361 „ Turnip Soup 33 „ Vegetable Salad 209 » ,, Soup 29 Plantagenet Liqueur 441 Plum-Pudding 320 ,, Plain 321 Poached Eggs and Tomato Sauce 218 “ Poivrade,” Sauce 100 Polish Fillet of Beef 231 „ Salad, Hot 183 Pore a la Robert 297 Pot au feu Beef 1 „ Soup 1 Potato and Chervil Soup ... 38 „ Cakes 418 „ Salad 134 „ Soup 40 Potatoes “i la Creme” ... 136 „ “ it la Lyonnaise ” 130 „ “ it la Maitre d’Hfitel” 133184 INDEX. RECIPE Potatoes and White Sauce 139 Pumpkin and Tomato Soup RECIFE 19 )> “ au Gratin ” 132 ,, Soup 43 ft Faverges 133b ft Fried 129 )> Italian 138 Q t> Parisian 137 tt D Pur6e of Souffle Tossed 131 135 133a Quails, Roasted Quince Jam 290 424 Potted Meat 432 Prunes, Stewed 381 Pudding, Almond 367 R >> Buff 372 >> Cabinet ”... 309 Rabbit, Broiled 293 3) Canadian 366 „ “ en Papillote ” 295 3 J Cheese 402 „ “Saute” 294 33 Crumb 373 Ragout a la Financifere 303 33 De Grey 374 “ Raifort,” Sauce 101 33 Malvern 368 Ravensdale Pudding 324 33 Marmalade 369 Ravigote Butter 125 33 Plain Plum 321 „ Sauce (Cold) 96 33 Plum 320 » » (Hot) 95 Raven sdale 324 Red Beans, Puree of 193 Scotch 370 „ Cabbage Salad 186 Semolina 371 ,, Mullet 85 33 Winter 310 “ Remoulade,” Sauce 106 Puree of Artichokes 158 Rice and Pea Soup 34 Chestnuts 191 ,, and Pumpkin 160 33 Lentils 195 „ „ Pumpkin Soup ... 31 33 Red Beans 196 „ ,, Turnip Soup 32 33 Spinach 146 ,, Cream Soup 35 Split Green Peas 197 ,, Curried 205 Sorrel 148 „ Mould 357 Turnips 175 ,, Pudding 359 33 White Haricot Rissoles 304 Beans “ a la „ Pastry 306 Creme ” 199 ,, Westphalian 305 Poule au Riz 272 Risotto “ a la Milanaise ”.. 203 Proportions for Frying „ “ a la Napolitaine ’ 204 Batter 437 „ “ a la Yenitienne ” 202 for Pastry 423 Roast Bird 284 Proven cale Stuffing, for „ Fillet of Beef 234a Birds Prune 1 267 ,. Hare 291 lould 319 ,, Quails 290 Puffs . 316 “ Robert,” Sauce 105 Pumpkin “ ii l’ltalienne ”... 206 Rock Cakes 419 and Rice 160 Rolls, Home-made 414 33 „ Soup ... 31 „ Vienna 415INDEX. 185 s Sauce, Garlic RECIPE 118 RECIPE 99 German Pudding ...' 119 Gherkin 107 Salad. Artichoke and To- 99 Gothic 111 mato 157 >> Green 97 Hot Polish 183 yy Horse-radish 101 Onion and Tomato 207 99 „ Butter 123 Orange 380 99 Italian 102 Potato 134 Madeira 114 Bed Cabbage 183 Maitre d’HStel Butter 124 Sardine 397 99 Meat and Vegetable 119a 99 Vegetable, Plain ... 209 99 “ Melanghe ” 108 Salads, Suggestions for 99 Mustard 103 442 Nlmes 117 288 “ Poivrade ” 100 Wild Duck 276 Puree 112 Salmon ** an TUrti ” 77 “ Baifort ” 101 Fillets 76 99 Bavigote Butter ... 125 >» Grilled 78 99 (Hot) 95 Salpicon 298 99 „ (Cold) 96 Salsifis and Cheese 163 “ Bemoulade ” 106 Dressed 162 “ Bobert ” 105 Fritters 161 Soubise 112 99 Scalloped 167 99 Spanish 94 Sandwiches, Hot 407 Sweet Swiss 120 Sardine Salad 397 Swiss 9 99 Toast 410 Tarragon Butter ... 126 Sardines 86 Tomato 93 Sauce “ h la Bechamel” ... 98a Vegetable and Meat 119a 99 Anchovy 99 99 Walnut 89 99 ,, Butter ... 122 Yellow, for Fri- and Celery 164 cassees 104 “ an Beurre ” 88 Savonrv Mould 247 yy “ an Vin de Madere” 114 Omelets 224 yy “ aux Militaires ” ... 109 99 Oysters 408 }> “ Bearnaise ” 116 Scalloped Salsifi 167 Bechamel 98 Scones 420 n Brandy Butter, for Scotch Pudding 370 Sweets 128 Scrambled Cauliflowers ... 142 99 Brown Butter 121 Semolina Pudding 371 Celery 113 Set Cream 337 99 “ Chateaubriand ”... 110 Sheep s Kidneys, Stewed... 265 99 Cream 91 Short Cakes 417 yy Curry 90 Silver Side of Beef, Stewed 237 99 Devil Mixture 127 Simple Pea Soup 30 99 “ Faute de Beurre” 119a Skate “ h l’ltalienne ” 66 99 Fine Herb 115 “au Beurre Noir”... 65 99 French Melted Butter 87 Small Fish 73INDEX. 186 RECIPE Smelts, Fried 72 Snow, Cream 346 Sole “ b, la Cr6me ” 47 „ Broiled 48 „ Normande, or “au Gratin ” 53 Soles “ b, la Colbert ” 51 „ “b, la Orly” 54 „ “ b, la Parisienne ” ... 50 „ “ b, la Turban ” 49 ,, Baked 52 Solferino Soup 8 Sorrel and Lentil Soup ... 37 „ Cream Soup 42 „ Puree of 148 Soubise Sauce 112 „ Soup 17 Souffle, Beignet 365 ,, Cheese 406 „ Chocolate 363 „ Coffee 362 „ Iced 391 „ of Pheasant 289 „ Plain 361 „ Potatoes 135 „ Vanilla 364 Soup, Barley 18 „ Brown Sago 15 „ Chestnut 12 ,, Conde 22 „ Crecy 24 „ Curried 46 „ English Clear 2 „ Faubonne 25 „ Fonds d’Artichauds 13 „ Francatelli’s Bonne Femme 3 „ Game 36 „ Herb 16 „ Italian 6 „ Julienne 26 „ Lent 10 „ Lentil 23 „ „ and Sorrel ... 37 „ Lettuce 27 „ Livonian 5 „ Macaroni 7 „ Macedonian 4 Soup, Monaco RECIPE 41 yy Mulligatawny 45 yy Onion 44 )i Oyster 11 yy Parisian 39 )> Peasant 9 )) Piedmontese 21 >> Plain Bread 28a „ Turnip 33 „ Vegetable 29 » Pot au feu 1 Ji Potato 40 JJ „ and Chervil... 38 >> Pumpkin 43 jj Bice and Pea 34 J> ,, „ Pumpkin... 3i J> „ Cream 35 j) Simple Pea 30 Solferino 8 Sorrel and Lentil ... 37 a „ Cream 42 » Soubise 17 yy Spring 28 Tomato and Okra ... 19 yy „ Pumpkin 20 yy Turnip and Bice ... 36 yy White Sago 14 Spanish Chicken 269 yy Torrijas 314 Spanish Sauce 94 Spice Cake 416 Spinach, Puree of 146 Split Green Peas, Puree of 197 Spring Soup 28 Sprouts, Dressed Brussels 146b Fried Brussels ... 146a Stew, Foreign 245 Game or Fowl 2S2 Stewed Cheese 404 Duck and Olives... 275 yy ,, Turnips 277 Larks 281 Leg of Mutton ... 242 Neck of Mutton ... 246 Pears 317 Pigeons 279 Prunes 381 yy Silver Side of Beef 237187 INDEX. 1 Straws, Cheese lECirE 403 Stuffed Artichokes 154a Stuffing, Liver 266 „ Provenqalo 267 “Suffren”Eel 80 Sugar, to clarify for Ices... 384 Sweet Omelet 352 „ Swiss Sauco 120 Sweetbreads “ h l’Espag- nole ” 252 „ “en Matelote” 253 Swiss Apples 311 „ Cream 345 „ Sauce, Savoury 92 Syllabubs 347 T Tarragon Butter 126 Tart, Open Apple 376 Tea Cream 333 Timbale de Legumes 190 Toast, Anchovy 411 „ Cold 409 „ Cheese 401 „ German 395 ,, Ham 392 „ Kidney 394 „ Maraschino 315 „ Marrow 393 „ Sardine 410 Toasted Cheese 405 Tomato and Artichoke Salad 157 „ and Okra Soup ... 20 „ and Onion Salad 207 „ andPumpkinSoup 19 „ “ au Gratin ” 178 ,, Macaroni and 186 „ Omelet and 225 „ Sauce 93 Tomatoes, Tossed 177 Tongue, Mutton, “ a la Puree ” 259 „ „ in cases ... 258 Tongues, Mutton, to pre- pare 257 RECIPE Torrijas (Spanish) 314 Tossed Cauliflowers 148 „ Potatoes 133a „ Tomatoes 177 Trout “ h la Hussarde ” ... 75 „ “ au Bleu ” 74 Truffled Omelet 230 Truffles, to prepare 229 Turbot “ au Gratin ” 83 „ Baked 84 Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts 278 Turkish Coffee 427 Turnip and Rice Soup 32 „ Soup, Plain 33 Turnips “ au Gratin ” 174 „ “enPoulette” ... 173 „ Glazed 176 „ Puree of 175 V Yanilla Cream Ice 388 „ Souffle 364 Veal “aux Anchois ” 249 „ Fricandeau of 248 Vegetable and Meat Sauce 119a „ Border Mould... 189 „ Curried 187 „ Macedoine 149 „ or Egg Curry ... 188 „ Salad, Plain ... 209 „ Sauce, Swiss ... 92 „ Soup 29 Velvet Cream 336 Venetian Rice 202 Venus Custard 325 Vienna Rolls 415 W Walnut Sauce 89 Water Ices, Fruit 384 Westphalian Rissoles 305INDEX. 188 rrri • . ^ ttlSUll'B White Sago Soup 14 » Sauce and Potatoes 139 Whites of Eggs, to beat ... 438 Whitings “ h la Orly ” 55 >, Baked 57 » Broiled 58a » Buttered 58 „ Fillets of, and Mushrooms ... 5fi Whole Leeks 153 Wild Duck, Salmis of Winter Padding T Yellow Sauce » „ for Fricassees THE END. RECIPE 27C 310 88 104 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES.A LIST OF KEG AN PAUL, TRENCH & CO.'S PUB LICA TIONS.i, Paternoster Square, London. A LIST OF KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO.’S PUBLICATIONS. CONTENTS. PAGE General Literature. . 2 Parchment Library . .19 Pulpit Commentary . .21 International Scientific Series .... 28 Military Works. , Poetry .... Works of Fiction Books for the Young PACE • 31 • 32 • 39 . 40 GENERAL LITERATURE, ADAMSON, H. T., B.D.—The Truth as it is in Jesus. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. The Three Sevens. Crown 8vo, 5.?. 6d. The Millennium ; or, The Mystery of God Finished. Crown 8vo, 6s. A. K. H. B. — From a Quiet Place. A Volume of Sermons. Crown 8vo, $s. ALLEN, Rev. R., M.A.—Abraham : his Life, Times, and Travels, 3800 years ago. With Map. Second Edition. Post 8vo, 6s. ALLIES, T. W., M.A.—Per Crucem ad Lucem. The Result of a Life. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 25^. A Life’s Decision. Crown 8vo, ‘js. 6d. AMOS, Professor Sheldon.—The History and Principles of the Civil Law of Rome. An aid to the Study of Scientific and Comparative Jurisprudence. Demy 8vo. 16s. ANDERDOAT, Rev. W. H.—Fasti Apostolici; a Chronology of the Years between the Ascension of our Lord and the Martyrdom of SS. Peter and Paul. Second Edition. Enlarged. Square 8vo, Sr. Evenings with the Saints. Crown 8vo, Sr.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. ANDERSONDavid.—“Scenes” in the Commons. Crown 8vo, 5-r. ARMSTRONG, Richard A., B.A.—Latter-Day Teachers. Six Lectures. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d. A USER TIN, J. J.—A Flight to Mexico. With Seven full-page Illustrations and a Railway Map of Mexico. Crown 8vo, 7-r. 6d. BADGER, George Percy, D.C.L.—An English-Arabic Lexicon. In which the equivalent for English Words and Idiomatic Sentences are rendered into literary and colloquial Arabic. Royal 4to, 80s. BAGEHOT, Walter.—The English Constitution. New and Revised Edition. Crown 8vo, "Js. 6d. Lombard Street. A Description of the Money Market. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. Essays on Parliamentary Reform. Crown 8vo, gr. Some Articles on the Depreciation of Silver, and Topics connected with it. Demy 8vo, 5r. BAGENAL, Philip II.—The American-Irish and their In- fluence on Irish Politics. Crown 8vo, 5r. BAGOT, Alan, C.E.—Accidents in Mines: their Causes and Prevention. Crown 8vo, 6s. The Principles of Colliery Ventilation. Second Edition, greatly enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5-r. BAKER, Sir Sherston, Bart.—The Laws relating to Quarantine, Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. BALDWIN, Capt. y. II.—The Large and Small Game of Bengal and the North-Western Provinces of India. With 20 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Small qto, 1 or. 6 d. BALLIN, Ada S. and F. L.—A Hebrew Grammar. With Exercises selected from the Bible. Crown 8vo, 7s, 6d. BARCLAY, Edgar.—Mountain Life in Algeria. With numerous Illustrations by Photogravure. Crown 4to, i6r. BARLOW, yames H.—The Ultimatum of Pessimism. An Ethical Study. Demy 8vo, 6s. BARNES, William.—Outlines of Redecraft (Logic). With English Wording. Crown 8vo, 3-r. BA UR, Ferdinand, Dr. Ph.—A Philological Introduction to Greek and Latin for Students. Translated and adapted from the German, by C. Kegan Paul, M.A., and E. D. Stone, M.A. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. BELLARS, Rev. W.— The Testimony of Conscience to the Truth and Divine Origin of the Christian Revela- tion. Burney Prize Essay. Small crown 8vo, 3.L 6d.A List of 4 BELLINGHAM, Henry, M.P.—Social Aspects of Catholicism and Protestantism in their Civil Bearing upon Nations, Translated and adapted from the French of M. le Baron de Haulleville. With a preface by His Eminence Cardinal Manning. Second and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. BELLINGHAM, II. Belsches Graham.—Ups and Downs of Spanish Travel. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 5s. BENN, Alfred W.—The Greek Philosophers. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 28r. BENT, J. Theodore.—Genoa : How the Republic Rose and Fell. With 18 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, i8r. BLACKLEY, Rev. W. S.—Essays on Pauperism. i6mo. Cloth, is. 6d. ; sewed, is. BLECKLEY, Henry,—Socrates and the Athenians: An Apology. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. BLOOMFIELD, The Lady.—Reminiscences of Court and Dip- lomatic Life. With 3 Portraits and 6 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 28s. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. BLUNT, The Ven. Archdeacon. —The Divine Patriot, and other Sermons. Preached in Scarborough and in Cannes. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. BLUNT, Wilfred S.—The Future of Islam. Crown 8vo, 6s. BOOLE, Mary.—Symbolical Methods of Study. Crown 8vo, Sr. BOUVERIE-PUSEY, S. E. B.—Permanence and Evolution. An Inquiry into the Supposed Mutability of Animal Types. Crown 8vo, Sr. BOWEN, II. C.,M.A.—Studies in English. For the use of Modern Schools. Seventh Thousand. Small crown 8vo, ir. 6d. English Grammar for Beginners. Fcap. 8vo, ir. BRADLEY, F. H.—The Principles of Logic. Demy 8vo, i6r. BRIDGETT, Rev. T. E.—History of the Holy Eucharist in Great Britain. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, i8r. BRODRICK, the Hon. G. C.— Political Studies. Demy Svo, I4r. BROOKE, Rev. S. A.—Life and Letters of the Late Rev. F. W. Robertson, M.A. Edited by. I, Uniform with Robertson’s Sermons. 2 vols. With Steel Portrait. "Js. 6d. II. Library Edition. With Portrait. Svo, I2r, III, A Popular Edition. In 1 vol,, 8vo, 6s.5 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. BROOKE, Rev. S. A.—Continued. The Fight of Faith. Sermons preached on various occasions. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. The Spirit of the Christian Life. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-f. Theology in the English Poets.—Cowper, Coleridge, Words- worth, and Burns. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, 5-r. Christ in Modern Life. Sixteenth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5J* Sermons. First Series. Thirteenth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5 s. Sermons. Second Series. Sixth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-r. BROWN, Rev. J. Baldwin, B.A.—The Higher Life. Its Reality, Experience, and Destiny. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s. Doctrine of Annihilation in the Light of the Gospel of Love. Five Discourses. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. The Christian Policy of Life. A Book for Young Men of Business. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 3J. 6d. BROWN, S. Borton, B.A.—The Fire Baptism of all Flesh ; or, The Coming Spiritual Crisis of the Dispensation, Crown 8vo, 6s. BROWN, Horatio F.—Life on the Lagoons. With two Illustrations and Map. Crown 8vo, 6s. BROWNBILL, John.—Principles of English Canon Law. Part I. General Introduction. Crown 8vo, 6s. ■BROWNE, W. R.—The Inspiration of the New Testament. With a Preface by the Rev. J. P. Norris, D.D. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. BURDETT, Henry C.—Hints in Sickness—Where to Go and What to Do. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. BURTON, Mrs. Ricka7-d.—The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine, and the Holy Land. Cheaper Edition in one volume. Large post 8vo. 7s. 6d. BUSBECQ, Ogier Ghiselin de.—His Life and Letters. By Charles Thornton Forster, M.A., and F. FI. Blacicburne Daniell, M.A. 2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo, 24J. CARPENTER, W. B., LL.D., M.D., F.R.S., etc.—'The Principles of Mental Physiology. With their Applications to the Training and Discipline of the Mind, and the Study of its Morbid Conditions. Illustrated. Sixth Edition. 8vo, I2r. Catholic Dictionary. Containing some account of the Doctrine, Discipline, Rites, Ceremonies, Councils, and Religious Orders of the Catholic Church. By William E. Addis and Thomas Arnold, M.A. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, 21 s.A List of 6 CERVANTES.—Journey to Parnassus. Spanish Text, with Trans- lation into English Tercets, Preface, and Illustrative Notes, by James Y. Gibson. Crown 8vo, 12s. CIIEYNE, Rev. T. K.—The Prophecies of Isaiah. Translated with Critical Notes and Dissertations. 2 vols. Third Edition. Demy 8vo, 25*. CLAIRAUT.—Elements of Geometry. Translated by Dr. Kaines, With 145 Figures. Crown 8vo, 4j. 6d. CLAYDEN, P. IF.—England under Lord Beaconsfleld. The Political History of the Last Six Years, from the end of 1873 to the beginning of 1880. Second Edition, with Index and con- tinuation to March, 1880. Demy 8vo, 16s. Samuel Sharpe. Egyptologist and Translator of the Bible. Crown 8vo, 6s. CLIFFORD, Samuel.—What Think Ye of the Christ ? Crown 8vo, 6s. CLODD, Edward, F.R.A.S.—The Childhood of the World : a Simple Account of Man in Early Times. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. A Special Edition for Schools. is. The Childhood of Religions. Including a Simple Account of the Birth and Growth of Myths and Legends. Eighth Thousand. Crown 8vo, Sr. A Special Edition for Schools, is. 6d. Jesus of Nazareth. With a brief sketch of Jewish History to the Time of His Birth. Small crown 8vo, 6s. COGHLAN, J. Cole, D.D.—The Modern Pharisee and other Sermons. Edited by the Very Rev. H. H. Dickinson, D.D., Dean of Chapel Royal, Dublin. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. COLERIDGE, Sara.—Memoir and Letters of Sara Coleridge, Edited by her Daughter. With Index. Cheap Edition. With Portrait. ys. 6d. Collects Exemplified. Being Illustrations from the Old and New Testaments of the Collects for the Sundays after Trinity. By the Author of “ A Commentary on the Epistles and Gospels.” Edited by the Rev. Joseph Jackson. Crown 8vo, $s. CONNELL, A. K.—Discontent and Danger in India. Small crown 8vo, 35. 6d. The Economic Revolution of India. Crown 8vo, 4-r. 6d. CORY, William.—A Guide to Modern English History. Part I. —MDCCCXV.-MDCCCXXX. Demy 8vo, 9* Part II.— MDCCCXXX.-MDCCCXXXV., 15*. COTTERILL, H. B.—An Introduction to the Study of Poetry. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.7 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. COX, Rev. Sir George IV., M.A., Dart.— A History of Greece from the Earliest Period to the end of the Persian War. New Edition. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 36^ The Mythology of the Aryan Nations. New Edition. Demy Svo, i6j. Tales of Ancient Greece. New Edition. Small crown Svo, 6s. A Manual of Mythology in the form of Question and Answer. New Edition. Fcap. Svo, 3-f. An Introduction to the Science of Comparative Myth- ology and Folk-Lore. Second Edition. Crown Svo. p.6d. COX, Rev. Sir G. IV., M.A., Dart., and JONES, Eustace Hinton.— Popular Romances of the Middle Ages. Third Edition, in 1 vol. Crown Svo, 6s. COX, Rev. Samuel, D.D.—Salvator Mundi; or, Is Christ the Saviour of all Men ? Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, Sr. The Genesis of Evil, and other Sermons, mainly expository. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. A Commentary on the Book of Job. With a Translation. Demy Svo, I5r. The Larger Hope. A Sequel to “ Salvator Mundi.” i6mo, ir. CRA VEN, Mrs.—A Year’s Meditations. Crown Svo, 6s. CRAWFURD, Oswald.—Portugal, Old and New. With Illustra- tions and Maps. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. CROZIER, John Beattie, M.D.— The Religion of the Future. Crown Syo, 6s. DANIELL, Clannont.—The Gold Treasure of India. An Inquiry into its Amount, the Cause of its Accumulation, and the Proper Means of using it as Money. Crown Svo, 5-r. Darkness and Dawn ; the Peaceful Birth of a New Age. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. DAVIDSON, Rev. Samuel, D.D., LL.D,—Canon of the Bible; Its Formation, History, and Fluctuations. Third and Revised Edition. Small crown Svo, Sr. The Doctrine of Last Things contained in the New Testa- ment compared with the Notions of the Jews and the Statements of Church Creeds. Small crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. DAVIDSON, Thomas.—The Parthenon Frieze, and other Essays. Crown 8vo, 6s. DAWSON, Geo., M.A. Prayers, with a Discourse on Prayer. Edited by his Wife. First Series. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. Prayers, with a Discourse on Prayer. Edited by George St. Clair. Second Series. Crown Svo, 6s.A List of 8 DA IVS ON, Geo., M.A.—continued. Sermons on Disputed Points and Special Occasions. Edited by his Wife. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Sermons on Daily Life and Duty. Edited by his Wife. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. The Authentic Gospel, and other Sermons. Edited by George St. Clair. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Three Books of God : Nature, History, and Scripture. Sermons edited by George St. Clair. Crown 8vo, 6s. DE JONCOURT, Madame Marie.—Wholesome Cookery. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. DE LONG, Lieut. Com. G. W.—The Voyage of the Jeannette. The Ship and Ice Journals of. Edited by his Wife, Emma De Long. With Portraits, Maps, and many Illustrations on wood and stone. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 361-. DESPREZ, Philip S., B.D.—Daniel and John ; or, The Apocalypse of the Old and that of the New Testament. Demy 8vo, I2J. DEVEREUX, W. Cope, R.N., F.R.G.S.—Fair Italy, the Riviera, and Monte Carlo. Comprising a Tour through North and South Italy and Sicily, with a short account of Malta. Crown 8vo, 6s. DOWDEN, Edward, LL.D.—Shakspere : a Critical Study of his Mind and Art. Seventh Edition. Post 8vo, I2J. Studies in Literature, 1789-1877. Third Edition. Large post Svo, 6s. DUFFIELD, A. J.—Don Quixote: his Critics and Commen- tators. With a brief account of the minor works of Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra, and a statement of the aim and end of the greatest of them all. A handy book for general readers. Crown 8vo, 3.1. 6d. DU MONCEL, Count.—The Telephone, the Microphone, and the Phonograph. With 74 Illustrations. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, Jj. DURUY, Victor.—History of Rome and the Roman People. Edited by Prof. Mahaffy, With nearly 3000 Illustrations. 4to. Vol. I. in 2 parts, 30J. EDGEWORTH, F. Y.—Mathematical Psychics. An Essay on the Application of Mathematics to Social Science. Demy Svo, Js. 6d. Educational Code of the Prussian Nation, in its Present Form. In accordance with the Decisions of the Common Pro- vincial Law, and with those of Recent Legislation. Crown Svo, 2s, 6d.Kegati Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 9 Education Library. Edited by PHiLir Magnus An Introduction to the History of Educational Theories. By Oscar Browning, M.A. Second Edition. 3*- 6</. Old Greek Education. By the Rev. Prof. Maiiaffy, M.A. Second Edition. 3*. 6d. School Management. Including a general view of the work of Education, Organization and Discipline. By Joseph Landon. Third Edition. 6s. Eighteenth Century Essays. Selected and Edited by Austin Dobson. With a Miniature Frontispiece by R. Caldecott. Parchment Library Edition, 6s. ; vellum, 7s. 6d. ELSDALE, Henry.—Studies in Tennyson’s Idylls. Crown Svo, 5*. ELYOT, Sir Thomas.—The Boke named the Gouernour. Edited from the First Edition of 1531 by Henry IIerbert Stephen Croft, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. With Portraits of Sir Thomas and Lady Elyot, copied by permission of her Majesty from Hol- bein’s Original Drawings at Windsor Castle. 2 vols. Fcap. 4to, Sos. Enoch the Prophet. The Book of. Archbishop Laurence’s Trans- lation, with an Introduction by the Author of “ The Evolution of Christianity.” Crown 8vo, 5-r. Eranus. A Collection of Exercises in the Alcaic and Sapphic Metres. Edited by F. W. Cornish, Assistant Master at Eton. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. EVANS, Mark.—The Story of Our Father’s Love, told to Children. Sixth and Cheaper Edition. With Four Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, ir. 6d. A Book of Common Prayer and Worship for House- hold Use, compiled exclusively from the Holy Scriptures. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, ir. The Gospel of Home Life. Crown 8vo, 4r, 6d. The King’s Story-Book. In Three Parts. Fcap. Svo, ir. 6d. each. *** Parts I. and II. with Eight Illustrations and Two Picture Maps, now ready. “Fan Kwae” at Canton before Treaty Days 1825-1844. By an old Resident. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, Sr. FLECKER, Rev. Eliezer.—Scripture Onomatology. Being Critical Notes on the Septuagint and other Versions. Second Edition, Crown 8vo, 3*. 6d. FLOREDICE, W. H.—A Month among the Mere Irish. Small crown 8vo, 5-r.A List of 10 FOWLE, Rev. T. IF.—The Divine Legation of Christ. Crown 8vo, 7s. FULLER,Rev. Morris.—The Lord’s Day ; or, Christian Sunday. Its Unity, History, Philosophy, and Perpetual Obligation. Sermons. Demy 8vo, ior. 6ci. GARDINER, Samuel R., and J. BASS MULLINGER, M.A.— In troduction to the Study of English History. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, 9*. GARDNER, Dorsey.— Quatre Bras, Ligny, and Waterloo. A Narrative of the Campaign in Belgium, 1815. With Maps and Plans. Demy 8vo, i6f. Genesis in Advance of Present Science. A Critical Investigation of Chapters I.-IX. By a Septuagenarian Beneiiced Presbyter. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. GENNA, E. — Irresponsible Philanthropists. Being some Chapters on the Employment of Gentlewomen. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. GEORGE, Henry.—Progress and Poverty : An Inquiry into the Causes of Industrial Depressions, and of Increase of Want with Increase of Wealth. The Remedy. Fifth Library Edition. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d. Cabinet Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Also a Cheap Edition. Limp cloth, if. 6d. Paper covers, if. Social Problems. Fourth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 5r. Cheap Edition. Sewed, if. GIBSON, James Y.—Journey to Parnassus. Composed by Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra. Spanish Text, with Translation into English Tercets, Preface, and Illustrative Notes, by. Crown 8vo, I2f. Glossary of Terms and Phrases. Edited by the Rev. H. Percy Smith and others. Medium 8vo, I2f. GLOVER, F., M.A,—Exempla Latina. A First Construing Book, with Short Notes, Lexicon, and an Introduction to the Analysis of Sentences. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2f. GOLDSMID, Sir Francis Henry, Bart., Q.C., M.P.—Memoir of. With Portrait. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 6s. GOODENOUGH, Commodore J. G.—Memoir of, with Extracts from his Letters and Journals. Edited by his Widow. With Steel Engraved Portrait. Third Edition. Crow 8vo, 5f. GOSSE, Edmund W.—Studies in the Literature of Northern Europe. With a Frontispiece designed and etched by Alma Tadema. New and Cheaper Edition. Large crown 8vo, 6f. Seventeenth Century Studies. A Contribution to the Histoiy of English Poetry. Demy Svo, I0f. 6d. GOULD, Rev. S. Baring, M.A.—Germany, Present and Past. New and Cheaper Edition. Large crown Svo, Js. 6d.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 11 GO WAN,; Major Walter E.—A. Ivanoff’s Russian Grammar. (16th Edition.) Translated, enlarged, and arranged for use of Students of the Russian Language. Demy 8vo, 6s. GO WEE, Lord Ronald. My Reminiscences. Second Edition. 2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo, 30r. *** Also a Cheap Edition. With Portraits. Large crown Svo, 7-r. 6d. GRAHAM, William, M.A.—The Creed of Science, Religious, Moral, and Social. Second Edition, Revised. Crown Svo, 6s. GRIFFITH, Thomas, A.M.—The Gospel of the Divine Life: a Study of the Fourth Evangelist. Demy Svo, 14A GRIMLEY, Rev. H. N., M.A.—Tremadoc Sermons, chiefly on the Spiritual Body, the Unseen World, and the Divine Humanity. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. G. S. B.—A Study of the Prologue and Epilogue in English Literature from Shakespeare to Dryden. Crown Svo, ss. GUSTAFSON, A.—The Foundation of Death. Crown Svo. HAECKEL, Prof. Ernst.—The History of Creation. Translation revised by Professor E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S. With Coloured Plates and Genealogical Trees of the various groups of both Plants and Animals. 2 vols. Third Edition. Post 8vo, 32J. The History of the Evolution of Man. With numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. Post 8vo, 32s. A Visit to Ceylon. Post 8vo, Js. 6d. Freedom in Science and Teaching. With a Prefatory Note by T. H. Huxley, F.R.S. Crown 8vo, Sr. Half-Crown Series :— A Lost Love. By Anna C. Ogle [Ashford Owen]. Sister Dora : a Biography. By Margaret Lonsdale. True Words for Brave Men : a Book for Soldiers and Sailors. By the late Charles Kingsley. Notes of Travel: being Extracts from the Journals of Count Von Moltke. English Sonnets. Collected and Arranged by J. Dennis. London Lyrics. By F. Locker. Home Songs for Quiet Hours. By the Rev. Canon R. H. Baynes. HARR OP, Robert.—Bolingbroke. A Political Study and Criticism. Demy8vo, 141-. HART, Rev. J. W. T.—'The Autobiography of Judas Iscariot. A Character Study. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d,A List of 12 HA WEIS, Rev. II. R., M.A.—Current Coin. Materialism—The Devil—Crime—Drunkenness—Pauperism—Emotion—Recreation —The Sabbath, Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5.1. Arrows in the Air. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. Speech in Season. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. Thoughts for the Times. Thirteenth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. Unsectarian Family Prayers. New and Cheaper Edition. Fcap. 8vo, ir. 6cl. HAWKINS, Edwards Comerford.—Spirit and Form. Sermons preached in the Parish Church of Leatherhead. Crown 8vo, 6r. HAWTHORNE, Nathaniel.—'Works. Complete in Twelve Volumes. Large post 8vo, Js. 6d. each volume. Vol. I. Twice-told Tales. II. Mosses from an Old Manse. III. The House of the Seven Gables, and The Snow Image. IV. The Wonderbook, Tanglewood Tales, and Grand- father’s Chair. V. The Scarlet Letter, and The Blitiledale Romance. VI. The Marble Faun. [Transformation.] VIII } °UR ®LD HoME) AND Engl1sh Note-Books. IX. American Note-Books. X. French and Italian Note-Books. XI. Septimius Felton, The Dolliver Romance, Fanshawe, and, in an Appendix, The Ancestral Footstep. XII. Tales and Essays, and other Papers, with a Bio- . graphical Sketch of Hawthorne. HA YES, A. A., Junr.—New Colorado, and the Santa Fe Trail. With Map and 60 Illustrations. Square 8vo, 9r. HENNESSY, Sir John Pope.—Ralegh in Ireland. With his Letters on Irish Affairs and some Contemporary Documents. Large crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, parchment, 10s. bd. HENRY, Philip.-—Diaries and Letters of. Edited by Matthew Henry Lee, M.A. Large crown 8vo, 7s. bd. HIDE, Albert.—The Age to Come. Small crown 8vo, 2s. bd. HIME, Major H. W. L., A. A.—Wagner ism : A Protest. Crown 8vo, 2s. bd. HINTON, J.—Life and Letters. Edited by Ellice Hopkins, with an Introduction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. bd. Philosophy and Religion. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 5s. The Law Breaker. Crown 8vo.13 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. HINTON, 7.—continued. The Mystery of Pain. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo, u. Hodson of Hodson’s Horse ; or, Twelve Years of a Soldier’s Life in India. Being extracts from the Letters of the late Major W. S. R. Hodson. With a Vindication from the Attack of Mr. Bosworth Smith. Edited by his brother, G. H. Hodson, M.A. Fourth Edition. Large crown 8vo, 5-r. HOLTHAM, E. G.—Eight Years in Japan, 1873-1881. Work, Travel, and Recreation. With three Maps. Large crown 8vo, gs. HOOPER, Mary.—Little Dinners: How to Serve them with Elegance and Economy. Eighteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Cookery for Invalids, Persons of Delicate Digestion, and Children. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Every-Day Meals. Being Economical and Wholesome Recipes for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. HOPKINS, Ellice.—Life and Letters of James Hinton, with an Introduction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 8r. 6d. Work amongst Working Men. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s- 6d. HOSPITALIER, E.—The Modern Applications of Electricity. Translated and Enlarged by Julius Maier, Ph.D. 2 vols. Second Edition, Revised, with many additions and numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 12s. 6d. each volume. Vol. I.—Electric Generators, Electric Light. Vol. II.—Telephone : Various Applications : Electrical Transmission of Energy. Household Readings on Prophecy. By a Layman. Small crow 8vo, 3-f. 6d. HUGHES, Henry.—The Redemption of the World. Crown 8vo, 3-r. 6d. HUNTINGFORD, Rev. E., D.C.L.—The Apocalypse. With a Commentary and Introductory Essay. Demy 8vo, 5r. HUTTON, Arthur, M.A.—The Anglican Ministry : Its Nature and Value in relation to the Catholic Priesthood. With a Preface by Plis Eminence Cardinal Newman. Demy 8vo, 141-. HUTTON, Rev. C. F.—Unconscious Testimony ; or, The Silent V itness of the Hebrew to the Truth of the Historical Scriptures. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. IIYNDMAN1 II. M.—The Historical Basis of Socialism in England. Large crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.A List of H IM THURN, Everard F.— Among the Indians of Guiana. Being Sketches, chiefly anthropologic, from the Interior of British Guiana. With 53 Illustrations and a Map. Demy 8vo, i8j. Jaunt in a Junk ; A Ten Days’ Cruise in Indian Seas. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. JENKINS, E., and RAYMOND, J.—'The Architect’s Legal Handbook. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 6s. JENNINGS, Mrs. Vaughan.—Rahel: Her Life and Letters. Large post 8vo, 7s. 6d. JER VIS, Rev. IV. Henley. — The Gallican Church and the Revolution. A Sequel to the History of the Church of France, from the Concordat of Bologna to the Revolution. Demy 8vo, 18s, JOEL, L.—A Consul’s Manual and Shipowner’s and Ship- master’s Practical Guide in their Transactions Abroad. With Definitions of Nautical, Mercantile, and Legal Terms; a Glossary of Mercantile Terms in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish; Tables of the Money, Weights, and Measures of the Principal Commercial Nations and their Equivalents in British Standards; and Forms of Consular and Notarial Acts. Demy 8vo, 12s. JOHNSTONE, C. F, M.A.—Historical Abstracts: being Outlines of the History of some of the less known States of Europe. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. JOLLY, William, F.R.S.E., etc.—The Life of John Duncan, Scotch Weaver and Botanist. With Sketches of his Friends and Notices of his Times. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, with etched portrait, 9s, JONES, C. A.—The Foreign Freaks of Five Friends. With 30 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. JOYCE, P. W., LL.D., etc.—Old Celtic Romances. Translated from the Gaelic. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. JOYNES, J. L.— The Adventures of a Tourist in Ireland. Second edition. Small crown 8vo, 2s, 6d. KAUFMANN, Rev. M., B.A.— Socialism: its Nature, its Dangers, and its Remedies considered. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. Utopias ; or, Schemes of Social Improvement, from Sir Thomas More to Karl Marx. Crown 8vo, 5s. KAY, David, F.R.G.S. —Education and Educators. Crown Svo, 7 s. 6d. KAY, Joseph.—Free Trade in Land. Edited by his Widow. With Preface by the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr.15 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. KEMPIS, Thomas <h—Of the Imitation of Christ. Parchment Library Edition.—Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. The Red Line Edition, fcap. 8vo, red edges, 2s. 6d. The Cabinet Edition, small 8vo, cloth limp, is. ; cloth boards, red edges, is. 6d. The Miniature Edition, red edges, 32mo, ij. *** All the above Editions may be had in various extra bindings. KENT, C.— Corona Catholica ad Petri successors Pedes Oblatai De Summi Pontiflcis Leonis XIII. As- sumptione Epigramma. In Quinquaginta Linguis. Fcap. 4to, iSj. KETTLE WELL, Rev. S.—Thomas a Kempis and the Brothers of Common Life. 2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo, 30J. KIDD, Joseph, M.D.—The Laws of Therapeutics ; or, the Science and Art of Medicine. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. KINGSFORD, Anna, M.D.—The Perfect Way in Diet. A Treatise advocating a Return to the Natural and Ancient Food of our Race. Small crown 8vo, 2s. KINGSLEY, Charles, M.A.—Letters and Memories of his Life. Edited by his Wife. With two Steel Engraved Portraits, and Vignettes on Wood. Fourteenth Cabinet Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8 vo, 12s. *** Also a People’s Edition, in one volume. With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 6r. All Saints’ Day, and other Sermons. Edited by the Rev. W. Harrison. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. True Words for Brave Men. A Book for Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Libraries. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. KNOX, Alexander A.—The New Playground ; or, Wanderings in Algeria. New and cheaper edition. Large crown 8vo, 6s. LANDON, Joseph.—School Management; Including a General View of the Work of Education, Organization, and Discipline. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. LA URIE, S. S.—The Training of Teachers, and other Educational Papers. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. LEE, Rev. F. G., D.C.L.—The Other W'orld ; or, Glimpses of the Supernatural. 2 vols. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, ijr. Letters from a Young Emigrant in Manitoba. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 31. 6d. LEWIS, Edward Dillon.—A Draft Code of Criminal Law and Procedure. Demy 8vo, 21 s. LILLIE, Arthur, M.R.A.S.—The Popular Life of Buddha. Containing an Answer to the Hibbert Lectures of 1881. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.i6 A List of LLOYD, Walter.—The Hope of the World : An Essay on Universal Redemption. Crown 8vo, 5*. LONSDALE, Margaret.—Sister Dora : a Biography. With Portrait. Twenty-seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. LOUNSBURY, Thomas R.—James Fenimore Cooper. Crown 8vo, Sr. LOWDER, Charles.—A Biography. By the Author of “ St. Teresa.” New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. With Portrait. 3s. 6d. LYTTON, Edward Bulwer, Lord.—Life, Letters and Literary Remains. By his Son, the Earl of Lytton. With Portraits, Illustrations and Facsimiles. Demy 8vo. Vols. I. and II., 32J. MA CA ULA Y, G. C.— Francis Beaumont: A Critical Study. Crown 8vo, Sr. MAC CALLUM, M. W.—Studies in Low German and High German Literature. Crown 8vo, 6s. MACDONALD, George.—Donal Grant. A New Novel. 3 vols. Crown 8vo,-31J. 6d. MACNLAVELLL, Niccold. — Life and Times. By Prof. Villari. Translated by Linda Villari. 4 vols. Large post, 8vo, 485. MACNLAVELLL, Niccolo.—Discourses on the First Decade of Titus Livius, Translated from the Italian by Ninian Hill Thomson, M.A. Large crown 8vo, 12s. The Prince. Translated from the Italian by N. H. T. Small crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, bevelled boards, 6s. MACLCENZLE, Alexander.—How India is Governed. Being an Account of England’s Work in India. Small crown 8vo, 2s. MACNAUGHT, Rev. John.—Goena Domini : An Essay on the Lord’s Supper, its Primitive Institution, Apostolic Uses, and Subsequent History. Demy 8vo, 14L MACWALTER, Rev. G. S.—Life of Antonio Rosmini Serbati (Founder of the Institute of Charity). 2 vols. Demy 8vo. [Vol. I. now ready, price 12s. MAGNUS, Mrs.—About the Jews since Bible Times. From the Babylonian Exile till the English Exodus. Small crown 8vo, 6s. MALR, R. S., M.D., F.R. C.S.E.—The Medical Guide for Anglo- Indians. Being a Compendium of Advice to Europeans in India, relating to the Preservation and Regulation of Health. With a Supplement on the Management of Children in India. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3s. 6d. MALDEN, Henry Elliot.—Nienna, 1683. The History and Conse- quences of the Defeat of the Turks before Vienna, September 12th, 1683, by John Sobieski, King of Poland, and Charles Leopold, Duke of Lorraine. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. Many Voices. A volume of Extracts from the Religious Writers of Christendom from the First to the Sixteenth Century. With Biographical Sketches. Crown Svo* doth extra, red edges, 6s.17 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. MARKHAM, Capt. Albert Hastings, R.N.—The Great Frozen Sea : A Personal Narrative of the Voyage of the Alert during the Arctic Expedition of 1875-6. With 6 Full-page Illustrations, 2 Maps, and 27 Woodcuts. Sixth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. A Polar Reconnaissance : being the Voyage of the Tsbjorn to Novaya Zemlya in 1879. With 10 Illustrations. Demy Svo, 16s. Marriage and Maternity ”, or, Scripture Wives and Mothers. Small crown Svo, 4-r. 6d. MARTINEAU, Gertrude.—Outline Lessons on Morals. Small crown Svo, 3s. 6d. MAUDSLEY, H, M.D.—Body and Will. Being an Essay con- cerning Will, in its Metaphysical, Physiological, and Pathological Aspects. Svo, 12s. McGRATH, Terence.—Pictures from Ireland. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. MEREDITH, M.A.—Theotokos, the Example for Woman. Dedicated, by permission, to Lady Agnes Wood. Revised by the Venerable Archdeacon Denison. 32mo, limp cloth, ir. 6d. MILLER, Edward.—The History and Doctrines of Irvingism ; or, The so-called Catholic and Apostolic Church. 2 vols. Large post Svo, 251-. The Church in Relation to the State. Large crown 8vo, "js. 6d. MINCHIN, J. G.—Bulgaria since the War : Notes of a Tour in the Autumn of 1879. Small crown 8vo, 3-f. 6d. MITCHELL, Lzicy M.—A History of Ancient Sculpture. With numerous Illustrations, including 6 Plates in Phototype. Super royal 8vo, 42J. Selections from Ancient Sculpture. Being a Portfolio con- taining Reproductions in Phototype of 36 Masterpieces of Ancient Art to illustrate Mrs. Mitchell’s “ History of Ancient Sculpture.” 18s. MITFORD, Bertram.—Through the Zulu Country. Its Battle- fields and its People. With five Illustrations. Demy Svo, 14J. MOCKLER, E.—A Grammar of the Baloochee Language, as it is spoken in Makran (Ancient Gedrosia), in the Persia-Arabic and Roman characters. Fcap. Svo, 5r. MOLESWORTH, Rev. W. IVassau, M.A.—History of the Church of England from 1660. Large crown Svo, 7s. 6d. MORELL, J. R.—Euclid Simplified in Method and Language. Being a Manual of Geometry. Compiled from the most important French Works, approved by the University of Paris and the Minister of Public Instruction. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. cA List of 18 MORRIS, George.—The Duality of all Divine Truth in our Lord Jesus Christ. For God’s Self-manifestation in the Impar- tation of the Divine Nature to Man. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. MORSE, E. S., Ph.D.—First Book of Zoology. With numerous Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d. MURPHY, John Nicholas.—The Chair of Peter; or, The Papacy considered in its Institution, Development, and Organization, and. in the Benefits which for over Eighteen Centuries it has conferred on Mankind. Demy 8vo, 18s. My Ducats and My Daughter. A New Novel. 3 vols. Crown 8vo, 31 s. 6d. NELSON, J. H., M.A.—A Prospectus of the Scientific Study of the Hindu Law. Demy 8vo, 9s. NEWMAN, Cardinal.—Characteristics from the Writings of. Being Selections from his various Works. Arranged with the Author’s personal Approval. Sixth Edition. With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 6s. * A A Portrait of Cardinal Newman, mounted for framing, can be had, is. 6d. ATEWMAN, Francis William. —Essays on Diet. Small crown 8vo, cloth limp, is. New Truth and the Old Faith: Are they Incompatible? By a Scientific Layman. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. New Werther. By Loki. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d. NICHOLSON, Edward Byron.—The Gospel according to the Hebrews. Its Fragments Translated and Annotated, with a Critical Analysis of the External and Internal Evidence relating to it. Demy 8vo, 9s. 6d. A New Commentary on the Gospel according to Matthew. Demy 8vo, 11s. NICOLS, Arthur, F.G.S., F.R.G.S.—Chapters from the Physical History of the Earth : an Introduction to Geology and Palaeontology. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Sr. NOfiS, Marianne.—Glass Lessons on Euclid. Part I. containing the First Two Books of the Elements. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Notes on St. Paul’s Epistle to the Galatians. For Readers of the Authorized Version or the Original Greek. Demy 8vo, is. 6d. Nuces: Exercises on the Syntax of the Public School Latin Primer. New Edition in Three Parts. Crown 8vo, each ir. *A The Three Parts can also be had bound together, 31. OATES, Frank, F.R.G.S.— Matabele Land and the Victoria Falls. A Naturalist’s Wanderings in the Interior of South Africa. Edited by C. G. Oates, B.A. With numerous Illustra- tions and 4 Maps. Demy 8vo, 11s.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 19 OGLE, W., AJ.JD., F.R.C.P.—Aristotle on the Parts of Animals. Translated, with Introduction and Notes. Royal 8vo, 12s. Get. O'HAGAN, Lord, K.P. — Occasional Papers and Addresses. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. OKEN, Lorenz, Life of. By Alexander Ecker. With Explanatory ’ Notes, Selections from Oken’s Correspondence, and Portrait of the Professor. From the German by Alfred Tulk. Crown Svo, 6s. O'MEARA, Kathleen.—Frederic Ozanam, Professor of the Sorbonne : Ilis Life and Work. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. Henri Perreyve and his Counsels to the Sick. Small crown Svo, 5r. OSBORNE, Rev. IP. A.—The Revised Version of the New Tes- tament. A Critical Commentary, with Notes upon the Text. Crown Svo, 5<r* OTTLEY, II. Bickersteth.—The Great Dilemma. Christ His Own Witness or His Own Accuser. Six Lectures. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 3-f. 6d. Our Public Schools—Eton, Harrow, Winchester, Rugby, Westminster, Marlborough, The Charterhouse. Crown Svo, 6s. OWEN, F. M.—John Keats : a Study. Crown Svo, 6s. Across the Hills. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d. OWEN, Rev. Robert, B.D.—Sanctorale Gatholicum ; or, Book of Saints. With Notes, Critical, Exegetical, and Historical. Demy 8vo, I Sr. OXENHAM, Rev. F. Nutcombe.—What is the Truth as to Ever- lasting Punishment. Part II. Being an Historical Inquiry into the Witness and Weight of certain Anti-Origenist Councils. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. OXONIENSIS. — Romanism, Protestantism, Anglicanism. Being a Layman’s View of some questions of the Day. Together with Remarks on Dr. Littledale’s “Plain Reasons against join- ing the Church of Rome.” Crown Svo, 3r. 6d. PALMER, the late William.—Notes of a Visit to Russia in 1840-1841. Selected and arranged by John H. Cardinal Newman, with portrait. Crown 8vo, Sr. 6d. Early Christian Symbolism. A Series of Compositions from Fresco Paintings, Glasses, and Sculptured Sarcophagi. Edited by the Rev. Provost Northcote, D.D., and the Rev. Canon Brownlow, M.A. In 8 Parts, each with 4 Plates. Folio, Sr, coloured ; 3-f. plain. Parchment Library. Choicely Printed on hand-made paper, limp parchment antique or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, 7s. 6d. each volume. The Book of Psalms. Translated by the Rev. T. K. CiieYne, M.A.A List of 2o Parchment Library—continued. The Vicar of 'Wakefield. With Preface and Notes by Austin Dobson. English Comic Dramatists. Edited by Oswald Crawfurd. English Lyrics. The Sonnets of John Milton. Edited by Mark Pattison. With Portrait after Vertue. Poems by Alfred Tennyson. 2 vols. With miniature frontis- pieces by W. B. Richmond. French Lyrics. Selected and Annotated by George Saints- liURY. With a miniature frontispiece designed and etched by H. G. Glindoni. Fables by Mr. John Gay. With Memoir by Austin Dobson, and an etched portrait from an unfinished Oil Sketch by Sir Godfrey Kneller. Select Letters of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Edited, with an Introduction, by Richard Garnett. The Christian Year. Thoughts in Verse for the Sundays and Holy Days throughout the Year. With Miniature Portrait of the Rev. J. Keble, after a Drawing by G. Richmond, R.A. Shakspere’s Works. Complete in Twelve Volumes. Eighteenth Century Essays. Selected and Edited by Austin Dobson. With a Miniature Frontispiece by R. Caldecott. Q. Horati Flacci Opera. Edited by F. A. Cornish, Assistant Master at Eton. With a Frontispiece after a design by L. Alma Tadema, etched by Leopold Lowenstam. Edgar Allan Poe’s Poems. With an Essay on his Poetry by Andrew Lang, and a Frontispiece by Linley Samboume. Shakspere’s Sonnets. Edited by Edward Dowden. With a Frontispiece etched by Leopold Lowenstam, after the Death Mask. English Odes. Selected by Edmund W. Gosse. With Frontis- piece on India paper by Hamo Thornycroft, A.R.A. Of the Imitation of Christ. By Thomas X Kempis. A revised Translation. With Frontispiece on India paper, from a Design by W. B. Richmond. Tennyson’s The Princess: a Medley. With a Miniature Frontispiece by H. M. Paget, and a Tailpiece in Outline by Gordon Browne. Poems: Selected from Percy Bysshe Shelley. Dedicated to Lady Shelley. With a Preface by Richard Garnett and a Miniature Frontispiece. Tennyson’s In Memoriam. With a Miniature Portrait in eau-forte by Le Rat, after a Photograph by the late Mrs. Cameron. *** The above volumes may also be had in a variety of leather bindings.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 21 PARSLOE, Joseph.—Our Railways. Sketches, Historical and Descriptive. With Practical Information as to Fares and Rates, etc., and a Chapter on Railway Reform. Crown 8vo, 6s. PAUL, Alexander.—Short Parliaments. A History of the National Demand for frequent General Elections. Small crown 8vo, 3-r. bd. PAUL, C. Kegan.—Biographical Sketches, Printed on hand-made paper, bound in buckram. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. PEARSON, Rev. S.—Week-day Living. A Book for Young Men and Women. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^. PESCHEI\, Dr. Oscar.—'The Races of Man and their Geo- graphical Distribution. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, 9s, PETERS, E. //.—The Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle. Trans- lated by. Crown Svo, 6s. PHIPSON, E.—The Animal Lore of Shakspeare’s Time. Including Quadnipeds, Birds, Reptiles, Fish and Insects. Large post 8vo, 9s. PIDGEON, D.—An Engineer’s Holiday ; or, Notes of a Round Trip from Long. o° to 0°. New and Cheaper Edition. Large crown 8vo, Js. 6d. POPE, J. Buckingham. — Railway Rates and Radical Rule. Trade Questions as Election Tests. Crown Svo, is. 6d. PRICE, Prof. Bonamy. — Chapters on Practical Political Economy, Being the Substance of Lectures delivered before the University of Oxford. New and Cheaper Edition. Large post 8vo, 5j. Pulpit Commentary, The. (Old Testament Series.) Edited by the Rev. J. S. Exell, M.A., and the Rev. Canon H. D. M. Spence. Genesis. By the Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. With Homilies by the Very Rev. J. F. Montgomery, D.D., Rev. Prof. R. A. Redford, M.A., LL.B., Rev. F. Hastings, Rev. W. Roberts, M.A. An Introduction to the Study of the Old Testament by the Venerable Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S.; and Introductions to the Pentateuch by the Right Rev. H. Cot- terill, D.D., and Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. Eighth Edition, i vol., I5r. Exodus. By the Rev. Canon RAwlinson. With Homilies by Rev. J. Orr, Rev. D. Young, B.A., Rev. C. A. Goodhart, Rev. J. Urquhart, and the Rev. H. T. Robjohns. Fourth Edition. 2 vols., i8r. Leviticus. By the Rev. Prebendary Meyrick, M.A. With Introductions by the Rev. R. Collins, Rev. Professor A. Cave, and Homilies by Rev. Prof. Redford, LL.B., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, Rev. W. Clarkson, B.A., Rev, S. R. Aldridge, LL.B., and Rev. McCheyne Edgar. Fourth Edition. I5r.22 A List of Pulpit Commentary, The—continued. Numbers. By the Rev. R. Wintereotham, LL.B. With Homilies by the Rev. Professor W. Binnie, D.D., Rev. E. S. Prout, M.A., Rev. D. Young, Rev. J, Waite, and an Intro- duction by the Rev. Thomas Whitelaw, M.A. Fourth Edition. 15^. Deuteronomy. By the Rev. W. L. Alexander, D.D. With Homilies by Rev. C. Clemance, D.D., Rev. J. Orr, B.D., Rev. R. M. Edgar, M.A., Rev. D. Davies, M.A. Third edition. 15.?, Joshua. By Rev. J. J. Lias, M,A. With Homilies by Rev. S. R. Aldridge, LL.B., Rev. R. Glover, Rev. E. de PressensiS, D.D., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A. ; and an Introduction by the Rev. A. Plummer, M.A. Fifth Edition. 12s. 6d. Judges and Ruth. By the Bishop of Bath and Wells, and Rev. J. Morrison, D.D. With Homilies by Rev. A. F. Muir, M.A., Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A., Rev. W. M. Statham, and Rev. Professor J. Thomson, M.A. Fourth Edition. 10s. 6d. 1 Samuel. By the Very Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D. With Homilies by Rev. Donald Fraser, D.D., Rev. Prof. Chapman, and Rev. B. Dale. Sixth Edition. 15J. 1 Kings. By the Rev. Joseph Hammond, LL.B. With Homilies by the Rev. E. de Pressens£, D.D,, Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. A. Rowland, LL.B., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, and Rev. J. Urquiiart. Fourth Edition. 15*. Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. By Rev. Canon G. Rawlinson, M.A. With Homilies by Rev. Prof. J. R. Thomson, M. A., Rev. Prof. R. A. Redford, LL.B., M.A., Rev. W. S. Lewis, M.A., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, Rev. A. Mackennal, B.A., Rev. W. Clarkson, B.A., Rev. F. Hastings, Rev. W. Dinwiddie, LL,B., Rev. Prof. Rowlands, B.A., Rev. G. Wood, B.A., Rev, Prof. P. C. Barker, M.A., LL.B., and the Rev. J. S. Exell, M.A. Sixth Edition. 1 vol., 12s. 6d. Jeremiah. By the Rev. T. K. Ciieyne, M.A. With Homilies by the Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A., Rev. A. F. Muir, M.A., Rev. S. Conway, B.A., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., and Rev. D. Young, B.A.. Vol. I., 15s. Pulpit Commentary, The. (New Testament Series.) St. Mark. By Very Rev. E. Bickersteth, D.D., Dean of Lich- field. With Plomilies by Rev. Prof. Thomson, M.A., Rev. Prof. Given, M.A., Rev. Prof. Johnson, M.A., Rev. A. Rowland, B.A., LL.B., Rev. A. Muir, and Rev. R. Green. 2 vols. Fourth Edition. 21 s. The Acts of the Apostles. By the Bishop of Bath and Wells. With Homilies by Rev. Prof. P. C. Barker, M.A., LL.B., Rev. Prof. E. Johnson, M.A., Rev. Prof. R, A. Redford, M.A., Rev. R. Tuck, B.A., Rev. W. Clarkson, B.A. 2 vols., 21 s.23 Kegan Paul' Trench & Co.’s Publications. Pulpit Commentary, The—continued. 1 Corinthians. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D. With Homilies by Rev. Ex-Chancellor Lipscomb, LL.D., Rev. David Thomas, D.D., Rev. D. Fraser, D.D., Rev. Prof. J. R. Thomson, M.A., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. R. Tuck, B.A., Rev. E. IIurndall, M.A., and Rev. H. Bremner, B.D. Price 15^. PUSEY, Dr.— Sermons for the Church’s Seasons from Advent to Trinity. Selected from the Published Sermons of the late Edward Bouverie Pusey, D.D. Crown 8vo, 5r. QU/LTER, Harry.—“ The Academy,” 1872-1882. I*. RADCLIFFE, Frank R. V.—The New Politicus. Small crown 8vo, 2s, 6d. RANKE, Leopold von.—Universal History. The oldest Historical Group of Nations and the Greeks. Edited by G. W. Prothero. Demy Svo, 16s. Realities of the Future Life. Small crown 8vq, is. 6d. RENDELL, J. M.—Concise Handbook of the Island of Madeira. With Plan of Funchal and Map of the Island. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. REYNOLDS, Rev. J. W.—The Supernatural in Nature. A Verification by Free Use of Science, Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Demy Svo, 14$, The Mystery of Miracles. Third and Enlarged Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. The Mystery of the Universe; Our Common Faith. Demy Svo, 14s. RIBOTProf. Th.—Heredity: A Psychological Study on its Phenomena, its Laws, its Causes, and its Consequences. Second Edition. Large crown Syo, gs. ROBERTSON, The late Rev. F. W., M.A.—Life and Letters of. Edited by the Rev. Stopford Brooke, M.A. I. Two vols., unifonn with the Sermons. With Steel Portrait. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. II. Library Edition, in Demy Svo, with Portrait. 12s. III. A Popular Edition, in 1 vol. Crown Svo, 6s. Sermons. Four Series. Small crown 8vo, 3.?. 6d. each. The Human Race, and other Sermons. Preached at Chelten- ham, Oxford, and Brighton. New and Cheaper Edition. Small crown Syo, 3-r. 6d. Notes on Genesis. New and Cheaper Edition. Small crown 8vo, 35. 6d. Expository Lectures on St. Paul’s Epistles to the Corinthians. A New Edition. Small crown 8vo, 5s. Lectures and Addresses, with other Literaiy Remains. A New Edition. Small crown 8vo, 51.24 A List of ROBERTSON,, The late Rev. F. W., M. A.—continued. An Analysis of Mr. Tennyson’s “ In Memoriam.” (Dedicated by Permission to the Poet-Laureate.) Fcap. 8vo, 2s. The Education of the Human Race. Translated from the German of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. The above Works can also be had, bound in half morocco. *** A Portrait of the late Rev. F. W. Robertson, mounted for framing, can be had, 2s. 6d. ROMANES, G. J. — Mental Evolution in Animals. With a Posthumous Essay on Instinct by Charles Darwin, F.R.S. Demy 8vo, 12s. ROSMINI SERBATI, A., Founder of the Institute of Charity. Life. By G. Stuart MacWalter. 2 vols. 8vo. [Vol. I. now ready, 12s. Rosmini’s Origin of Ideas. Translated from the Fifth Italian Edition of the Nuovo Saggio Still’ origine delle idee. 3 vols. Demy 8vo, cloth. [Vols. I. and II. now ready, 16s. each. Rosmini’s Philosophical System. Translated, with a Sketch of the Author’s Life, Bibliography, Introduction, and Notes by Thomas Davidson. Demy 8vo, 16s. RULE, Martin, M.A. — The Life and Times of St. Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate of the Britains. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 32.L SALVATOR, Archduke Ludwig.—Levkosia, the Capital of Cyprus. Crown 4to, 10s. 6d. SAMUEL, Sydney M.—Jewish Life in the East. Small crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. SA YCE, Rev. Archibald Henry.—Introduction to the Science of Language. 2 vols. Second Edition. Large post 8vo, 2is. Scientific Layman. The New Truth and the Old Faith : are they Incompatible ? Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. SCOONES, W. Baptiste.—Four Centuries of English Letters : A Selection of 350 Letters by 150 Writers, from the Period of the Paston Letters to the Present Time. Third Edition. Large crown 8vo, 6s. SH1LLITO, Rev. Joseph.—Womanhood : its Duties, Temptations, and Privileges. A Book for Young Women. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 3.?. 6d. SHIPLEY, Rev. Orby, M.A.—Principles of the Faith in Rela- tion to Sin. Topics for Thought in Times of Retreat. Eleven Addresses delivered during a Retreat of Three Days to Persons living in the World. Demy 8vo, 12s. Sister Augustine, Superior of the Sisters of Charity at the St. Johannis Hospital at Bonn. Authorised Translation by Hans Tiiarau, from the German “ Memorials of Amalie von Lasaulx.” Cheap Edition. Large crown Svo, 4s. 6d.Kegan Patti, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 25 SKINNER, James.—A Memoir. By the Author of “Charles Lowder.” With a Preface by the Rev. Canon Carter, and Portrait. Large crown, 7s. 6d. SMITH, Edward, M.D., LL.B., E.R.S.—Tubercular Consump- tion in its Early and Remediable Stages. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. SPEEDING, James.—Reviews and Discussions, Literary, Political, and Historical not relating to Bacon. Demy 8vo, 12s. 6d. Evenings with a Reviewer; or, Bacon and Macaulay. With a Prefatory Notice by G. S. Venables, Q.C. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 18s. STAPFER, Paul. —Shakspeare and Classical Antiquity: Greek and Latin Antiquity as presented in Shakspeare’s Plays. Translated by Emily J. Carey. Large post 8vo, 12s. STEVENSON, Rev. TV. F.—Hymns for the Church and Home. Selected and Edited by the Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson. The Plymn Book consists of Three Parts :—I. For Public Worship.—II. For Family and Private Worship.—III. For Children. %* Published in various forms and prices, the latter ranging from 8d. to 6s. Stray Papers on Education, and Scenes from School Life. By B. H. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 35. 6d. STREATFEILD, Rev. G. S.,M.A.—Lincolnshire and the Danes. Large crown 8vo, Is. 6d. STRECKER- WISLICENUS.—Organic Chemistry. Translated and Edited, with Extensive Additions, by W. R. Hodgkinson, Ph.D., and A. J. Greenaway, F.I.C. Demy 8vo, 2ir. Study of the Prologue and Epilogue in English Literature. From Shakespeare to Dryden. By G. S. B. Crown 8vo, Sr. SULLY, James, M.A.—Pessimism : a History and a Criticism. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, 14?. SWEDENBORG, Eman.—De Cultu et Amore Dei uhi Agitur de Telluris ortu, Paradiso et Vivario, turn de Pri- mogeniti Seu Adami Nativitate Infantia, et Amore. Crown 8vo, 6s. SYME, David.—Representative Government in England. Its Faults and Failures. Second Edition. Large crown Svo, 6s. 7A YLOR, Rev. Isaac.—The Alphabet. An Account of the Origin and Development of Letters. With numerous Tables and Facsimiles. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 36s.2 6 A List of TAYLOR, Sedley. — Profit Sharing between. Capital and Labour. To which is added a Memorandum on the Industrial Partnership at the Whitwood Collieries, by Archibald and Henry Briggs, with remarks by Sedley Taylor. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. Thirty Thousand Thoughts. Edited by the Rev. Canon Spence, Rev. J. S. Exell, Rev. Charles Neil, and Rev. Jacob Stephenson. 6 vols. Super royal 8vo. [Vols. I. and II. now ready, 16s. each. THOM,, J. Hamilton.—Laws of Life after the Mind of Christ. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. THOMSON, J. Turnbull.—Social Problems ; or, An Inquiry into the Laws of Influence. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. TIDMAN, Paul F.—Gold and Silver Money. Part I.—A Plain Statement. Part II.—Objections Answered. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. TIPPLE, Rev. S. A.—Sunday Mornings at Norwood. Prayers and Sermons. Crown 8vo, 6s. TODHUNTER, Dr. J.—A Study of Shelley. Crown 8vo, 7s. TREMENHEERE, Hugh Seymour, C.B.— A Manual of the Principles of Government, as set forth by the Authorities of Ancient and Modem Times. New and Enlarged Edition. Crown 8vo, y. 6d. TUKE, Daniel Hack, M.D., F.R.C.P.—Chapters in the History of the Insane in the British Isles. With 4 Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 12s. TWINING, Louisa.—Workhouse Visiting and Management during Twenty-Five Years. Small crown 8vo, 2s. TYLER, J.—The Mystery of Being : or, What Do We Know ? Small crown 8vo, 3.r. 6d. UPTON, Major R. D.—Gleanings from the Desert of Arabia. Large post 8vo, ior. 6d. VACUUS VIATOR.—Flying South. Recollections of France and its Littoral. Small crown 8vo, 3-r. 6d. VAUGHAN, H. Halford.—New Readings and Renderings of Shakespeare’s Tragedies. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 251-. VILLARI, Professor.—Niccold Maehiavelli and his Times. Translated by Linda Villari. 4 vols. Large post 8vo, 48*. VILLIERS, The Right Hon. C. P.—Free Trade Speeches of. With Political Memoir. Edited by a Member of the Cobden Club. 2 vols. With Portrait. Demy 8vo, 25^. *** People’s Edition. 1 vol. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 2s. 6d. VOGT, Lieut.-Col. Hermann.—The Egyptian War of 1882. A translation. With Map and Plans. Large crown 8vo, 6s.Kegan Paul, Trench. & Co.’s Publications. 27 VOLCKXSOAf, E. IV. ^.—Catechism of Elementary Modern Chemistry. Small crown Svo, 3s. VYNER, Lady Mary.—Every Day a Portion. Adapted from the Bible and the Prayer Book, for the Private Devotion of those living in Widowhood. Collected and Edited by Lady Mary Vyner, Square crown Svo, 51. WALDSTEIN, Charles, Ph.D.—The Balance of Emotion and Intellect; an Introductory Essay to the Study of Philosophy. Crown Svo, 6j. WALLER, Rev. C. B.—The Apocalypse, reviewed under the Light of the Doctrine of the Unfolding Ages, and the Restitution of All Things. Demy Svo, 12s. WALPOLE, Chas. George,—History of Ireland from the Earliest Times to the Union with Great Britain. With 5 Maps and Appendices. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. WALSHE, Walter Hayle, M.D.—Dramatic Singing Physiolo- gically Estimated. Crown 8vo, 3L 6d. WARD, William George, Ph.D.—Essays on the Philosophy of Theism. Edited, with an Introduction, by Wilfrid Ward. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 21 s, WEDDERBURN, Sir David, Bart., M.P.—Life of, Compiled from his Journals and Writings by his sister, Mrs. E. H. Percival. With etched Portrait, and facsimiles of Pencil Sketches. Demy Svo, 141. WEDMORE, Frederick.—The Masters of Genre Painting. With Sixteen Illustrations. Post Svo, 7s. 6d. WHEIVELL, William, D.D.—His Life and Selections from his Correspondence. By Mrs. Stair Douglas. With a Portrait from a Painting by Samuel Laurence. Demy Svo, 21s. WHITNEY, Prof. William Dwight. — Essentials of English Grammar, for the Use of Schools. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s- 6d. WILLIAMS, Rowland, D.D.—Psalms, Litanies, Counsels, and Collects for Devout Persons. Edited by his Widow. New and Popular Edition. Crown Svo, 3^. 6d. Stray Thoughts Collected from the Writings of the late Rowland Williams, D.D. Edited by his Widow. Crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. WILSON, Sir Erasmus.—The Recent Archaic Discovery of Egyptian Mummies at Thebes. A Lecture. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. WILSON, Lieut.-Col. C. T. — The Duke of Berwick, Marshal of France, 1702-1734. Demy 8vo, 15J. WILSON, Mrs. R. F.—The Christian Brothers. Their Origin and Work. With a Sketch of the Life of their Founder, the Ven Jean Baptiste, de la Salle. Crown 8vo, 6s.A List of 28 WOLTMANN, Dr. Alfred, and WOERMANN, Dr. Karl.— History of Painting. Edited by Sidney Colvin. Vol. I. Painting in Antiquity and the Middle Ages. With numerous Illustrations. Medium 8vo, 28s. ; bevelled boards, gilt leaves, 30J. Word was Made Flesh. Short Family Readings on the Epistles for each Sunday of the Christian Year. Demy 8vo, ioj. 6d. WREN, Sir Christopher.—His Family and His Times. With Original Letters, and a Discourse on Architecture hitherto un- published. By Lucy Phillimore. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. YOUMANS, Eliza A.—First Book of Botany. Designed to Cultivate the Observing Powers of Children. With 300 Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. YOUMANS, Edward L., M.D.—A Class Book of Chemistry, on the Basis of the New System. With 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5^. THE INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SERIES. I. Forms of Water: a Familiar Exposition of the Origin and Phenomena of Glaciers. By J. Tyndall, LL.D., F.R.S. With 25 Illustrations. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-f. II. Physics and Politics ; or, Thoughts on the Application of the Principles of “Natural Selection” and “ Inheritance” to Political Society. By Walter Bagehot. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 4J. HI. Foods. By Edward Smith, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-f. IV. Mind and Body : the Theories of their Relation. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. With Four Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. V. The Study of Sociology. By Herbert Spencer. Eleventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. VI. On the Conservation of Energy. By Balfour Stewart, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S. With 14 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5j. VII. Animal Locomotion ; or Walking, Swimming, and Flying. By J. B. Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S., etc. With 130 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. VIII. Responsibility in Mental Disease. By Henry Maudsley, M.D. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-f. IX. The New Chemistry. By Professor J. P. Cooke. With 31 Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown Svo, $s.Regan Paul\ Trench & Co.'s Publications. 29 X. The Science of Law. By Professor Sheldon Amos. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XI. Animal Mechanism : a Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial Loco- motion. By Professor E. J. Marey. With 117 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XII. The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism. By Professor Oscar Schmidt. With 26 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, S'5'* XIII. The History of the Conflict between Religion and Science. By J. W. Draper, M.D., LL.D. Eighteenth Edition. Crown Svo, Sr. XIV. Fungi: their Nature, Influences, Uses, etc. By M. C. Cooke, M.D., LL.D. Edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-r. XV. The Chemical Effects of Light and Photography. By Dr. Hermann Vogel. Translation thoroughly Revised. With 100 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 5s. XVI. The Life and Growth of Language. By Professor William Dwight Whitney. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, S-5* XVII. Money and the Mechanism of Exchange. By W. Stanley Jevons, M.A., F.R.S. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XVIII. The Nature of Light. With a General Account of Physical Optics. By Dr. Eugene Lommel. With 18S Illustrations and a Table of Spectra in Chromo-lithography, Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XIX. Animal Parasites and Messmates, By Monsieur Van Beneden. With 83 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5_r. XX. Fermentation, By Professor Schutzenberger. With 28 Illus- trations. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 51. XXL The Five Senses of Man. By Professor Bernstein. With 91 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 55. XXII. The Theory of Sound in its Relation to Music. By Pro- fessor Pietro Blaserna. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 51. XXIII. Studies in Spectrum Analysis. By J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S. With six photographic Illustrations of Spectra, and numerous engravings on Wood. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d. XXIV. A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine. By Professor R. H. Thurston. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. XXV. Education as a Science. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo,30 A L ist of XXVI. The Human Species. By Professor A. de Quatrefages. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXVII. Modern Chromatics. With Applications to Art and In- dustry. By Ogden N. Rood. With 130 original Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5.?, XXVIII. The Crayfish : an Introduction to the Study of Zoology. By Professor T. H. Huxley. With 82 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XXIX. The Brain as an Organ of Mind. By II. Charlton Bastian, M.D. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXX. The Atomic Theory. By Prof. Wurtz. Translated by G. Cleminshaw, F.C.S. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 51. XXXI. The Natural Conditions of Existence as they affect Animal Life. By Karl Semper. With 2 Maps and 106 Woodcuts. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XXXII. General Physiology of Muscles and Nerves. By Prof. J. Rosenthal. Third Edition. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, SJ- XXXIII. Sight : an Exposition of the Principles of Monocular and Binocular Vision. By Joseph le Conte, LL.D. Second Edition. With 132 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 51. XXXIV. Illusions : a Psychological Study. By James Sully. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Jr. XXXV. Volcanoes : what they are and what they teach. By Professor J. W. Judd, F.R.S. With 92 Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-r. XXXVI. Suicide : an Essay in Comparative Moral Statistics. By Prof. E. Morselli. Second Edition. With Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 51. XXXVII. The Brain and its Functions. By J. Luys. With Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, jr. XXXVIII. Myth and Science : an Essay. By Tito Vignoli. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XXXIX. The Sun. By Professor Young. With Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5f. XL. Ants, Bees, and Wasps: a Record of Observations on the Habits of the Social Hymenoptera. By Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P. With 5 Chromo-lithographic Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XLI. Animal Intelligence. By G. J. Romanes, LL.D., F.R.S, Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr.3i Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. XLII. The Concepts and Theories of Modern Physics. By J. B. Stallo. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-r. XLIII. Diseases of the Memory ; An Essay in the Positive Psycho- logy. By Prof. Th. Ribot. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, $s. XLIV. Man before Metals. By N. Joly, with 148 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XLV. The Science of Politics. By Prof. Sheldon Amos. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XLVI. Elementary Meteorology. By Robert H. Scott. Second Edition. With Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5-f. XLVII. The Organs of Speech and their Application in the Formation of Articulate Sounds. By Georg Hermann Von Meyer. With 47 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, $s. XLVIII. Fallacies. A View of Logic from the Practical Side. By Alfred Sidgwick. Crown 8vo, 5-r. MILITARY WORKS. BARRINGTON, Capt. J. T.—England on the Defensive ; or, the Problem of Invasion Critically Examined. Large crown 8vo, with Map, 7s. 6d. BRACKENBURY, Col. C. B., R.A. — Military Handbooks for Regimental Officers. I. Military Sketching and Reconnaissance. By Col. F. J. Hutchison and Major H. G. MacGregor. Fourth Edition. With 15 Plates. Small crown 8vo, 4-y. II. The Elements of Modern Tactics Practically- applied to English Formations. By Lieut.-Col. Wilkinson Shaw. Fourth Edition. With 25 Plates and Maps. Small crown 8vo, 91. III. Field Artillery. Its Equipment, Organization and Tactics. By Major Sisson C. Pratt, R.A. With 12 Plates. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 6s. IV. The Elements of Military Administration. First Part : Permanent System of Administration. By Major J. W. Buxton. Small crown 8vo. Js. 6d. V. Military Law: Its Procedure and Practice. By Major Sisson C. Pratt, R.A. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 4J. 61i. BROOKE, Major, C. K.— A System of Field Training. Small crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s,A List of CLEKY, C., Lieut.-Col— Minor Tactics. With 26 Maps and Plans. Sixth and Cheaper Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, <jr. COLVILE, Lieut.-Col. C. F.—Military Tribunals. Sewed, 2s. 6d. CRAUFURD, Lieut. H.J.—Suggestions for the Military Train- ing of a Company of Infantry. Crown 8vo, ir. 6d. IIARRISON, Lieut.-Col. R.—The Officer’s Memorandum Book for Peace and War. Third Edition. Oblong 32mo, roan, with pencil, 3-r. 6d. Notes on Cavalry Tactics, Organisation, etc. By a Cavalry Officer. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo, 12s, PARR, Capt. II. Hallam, C.M.G.—The Dress, Horses, and Equipment of Infantry and Staff Officers. Crown 8vo, ir. SCHAW, Col. H.—The Defence and Attack of Positions and Localities. Second Edition, Revised and Corrected. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. SIIADWELL, Maj.-Gen., C.B.—Mountain Warfare. Illustrated by the Campaign of 1799 in Switzerland. Being a Translation of the Swiss Narrative compiled from the Works of the Archduke Charles, Jomini, and others. Also of Notes by General H. Dufour on the Campaign of the Valtelline in 1635. With Appen- dix, Maps, and Introductory Remarks. Demy 8vo, 16s, WILKINSON, H. Spenser, Capt. 20th Lancashire R. V. — Citizen Soldiers. Essays towards the Improvement of the Volunteer Force. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. POETRY. ADAM OF ST. VICTOR.—The Liturgical Poetry of Adam of St. Victor. From the text of Gautier. With Translations into English in the Original Metres, and Short Explanatory Notes, by Digby S. Wrangham, M.A. 3 vols. Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, boards, 21 s. A UCHMUTY, A. C.—Poems of English Heroism : FromBrunan- burh to Lucknow; from Athelstan to Albert. Small crown 8vo, 1 a 6d. A VIA.—The Odyssey of Homer. Done into English Verse by. Fcap. 4to, 1 Sr. BANKS, Mrs. G. L.—Ripples and Breakers : Poems. Square Svo, Sr. BARING, T. C., M.A., M.P. — The Scheme of Epicurus. A Rendering into English Verse of the Unfinished Poem of Lucretius, entitled “ De Rerum Natura” (“The Nature of Things”). Fcap. 4to.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 33 BARNES, William. —Poems of Rural Life, in the Dorset Dialect. New Edition, complete in one vol. Crown 8vo, Sr. 6d. BA YNES, Rev. Canon H. /’.—Home Songs for Quiet Hours. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. This may also be had handsomely bound in morocco with gilt edges. BENDALL, Gerard.—Musa Silvestris. i6mo, lx. 6d. BEVINGTON, L. S.—Key Notes. Small crown 8vo, 5x. BILLSON, C. J.—The Acharnians of Aristophanes. Crown 8 vo, 3x. 6d. BLUNT, Wilfrid Scawen. — The Wind and the Whirlwind. Demy 8vo, ix. 6d. BOWEN, H. C., M.A.—Simple English Poems. English Literature for Junior Classes. In Four Parts. Parts I., II., and III., 6d. each, and Part IV., ix. Complete, 3X. BRASHER, Alfred.—Sophia; or, the Viceroy of Valencia. A Comedy in Five Acts, founded on a Story in Scarron. Small crown 8vo, 2x. 6d. BRYANT, W. C.—Poems. Cheap Edition, with Frontispiece. Small crown 8vo, 3x. 6d. BYRNNE, E. Fairfax.—Milicent: a Poem. Small crown 8vo, 6x. CAILLARD, Emma Marie.—Charlotte Corday, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3x. 6d. Calderon’s Dramas: the Wonder-Working Magician — Life is a Dream—the Purgatory of St. Patrick. Translated by Denis Florence MacCarthy. Post 8vo, iox. Camoens Lusiads.—Portuguese Text, with Translation by J. J. Aubertin. Second Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, I2x. CAMPBELL, Lewis.—Sophocles. The Seven Plays in English Verse. Crown 8vo, 7x. 6d. Castilian Brothers (The), Chateaubriant, Waldemar: Three Tragedies; and The Rose of Sicily : a Drama. By the Author of “ Ginevra,” etc. Crown 8vo, 6x. Chronicles of Christopher Columbus. A Poem in 12 Cantos. By M. D. C. Crown 8vo, 7x. 6d. CLARKE, Mary Cmvden.—Honey from the Weed. Verses. Crown 8vo, Js. Cosmo de Medici; The False One ; Agramont and Beau- mont : Three Tragedies; and The Deformed : a Dramatic Sketch. By the Author of “ Ginevra,” etc., etc. Crown Svo, 5X. D34 A List of COXIIEAD, Ethel.—Birds and Babies. Imp. i6mo. With 33 Illustrations. Gilt, 2s. 6d. David Rizzio, Bothwell, and the Witch Lady: Three Tragedies. By the author of “ Ginevra,” etc. Crown 8vo, 6r. DAVIE, G.S., M.D.—The Garden of Fragrance. Being a com- plete translation of the Bostan of Sadi from the original Persian into English Verse. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. DAVIES, T. Hart.—Catullus. Translated into English Verse. Crown 8vo, 6s. DENNIS, J.—English Sonnets. Collected and Arranged by. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. DE VERE, Aubrey.—Poetical Works. I. The Search after Proserpine, etc. 6s. II. The Legends of St. Patrick, etc. 6s. III. Alexander the Great, etc. 6s. The Foray of Queen Meave, and other Legends of Ireland’s Heroic Age. Small crown 8vo, Sr. Legends of the Saxon Saints. Small crown 8vo, 6s. DILLON, Arthur.—River Songs and other Poems. With 13 autotype Illustrations from designs by Margery May. Fcap. 4to, cloth extra, gilt leaves, 10s. 6d. DOBELL, Mrs. Horace.—Ethelstone, Eveline, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 6s. DOBSON, Austin.—Old W'orld Idylls and other Poems. Third Edition. i8mo, cloth extra, gilt tops, 6s. DOMET, Alfred.—Ranolf and Amohia. A Dream of Two Lives. New Edition, Revised. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, I2r. Dorothy : a Country Story in Elegiac Verse. With Preface. Demy 8vo, Sr. DOWDEN, Edward, LL.D.—Shakspere’s Sonnets. With Intro- duction and Notes. Large post 8vo, 7r. 6d. DUTT, Toru.—A Sheaf Gleaned in French Fields. New Edition. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. EDMONDS, E. IV.—Hesperas. Rhythm and Rhyme. Crown 8vo, 4r. ELDRYTH, Maud.—Margaret, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. All Soul’s Eve, “ No God,” and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo, 3r. 6d. ELLIOTT, Ebenezer, The Corn Law Rhymer.—Poems. Edited by his son, the Rev. Edwin Elliott, of St. John’s, Antigua. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, i8r. English Odes. Selected, with a Critical Introduction by Edmund W. Gosse, and a miniature frontispiece by Hamo Thornycroft, A.R.A. Elzevir Svo, limp parchment antique, or cloth, 6r. ; vellum, 7r. 6d.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 35 English Verse. Edited by W. J. Linton and R. H. Stoddard. 5 vols. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5s- each. I. Chaucer to Burns. II. Translations. III. Lyrics of the Nineteenth Century. IV. Dramatic Scenes and Characters. V. Ballads and Romances. EVANS, Anne.—Poems and Music. With Memorial Preface by Ann Thackeray Ritchie. Large crown Svo, 7s. GOSSE, Edmund IV.—New Poems. Crown Svo, Js. 6d. GRAHAM, William. Two Fancies, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 5a GRINDROD, Charles. Plays from English History. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. The Stranger’s Story, and his Poem, The Lament of Love : An Episode of the Malvern Hills. Small crown Svo, 2s. 6d. GURNEY, Rev. Alfred.—The Vision of the Eucharist, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 5a HELLON, H. G.—Daphnis '. a Pastoral Poem. Small crown Svo, 3s. 6d. HENRY, Daniel, Junr.—Under a Fool’s Cap. Songs. Crown Svo, cloth, bevelled boards, 5a Herman Waldgrave : a Life’s Drama. By the Author of “ Ginevra,” etc. Crown 8vo, 6s. HICKE Y, E. Id.—A Sculptor, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 5A HONEYWOOD, Patty.—Poems. Dedicated (by permission) to Lord Wolseley, G.C.B., etc. Small crown Svo, 2s. bd. INGHAM, Sarson, C. J.—Caedmon’s Vision, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 5a JENKINS, Rev. Canon.—Alfonso Petrucci, Cardinal and Con- spirator: an Historical Tragedy in Five Acts. Small crown Svo, 31. 6 d. JOHNSON, Ernie S. W.—Ilaria, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 3a 6d. KEATS, John.—Poetical Works. Edited by W. T. Arnold. Large crown 8vo, choicely printed on hand-made paper, with Portrait in eati-forte. Parchment, I 2a ; vellum, 15A KING, Edward.—Echoes from the Orient. With Miscellaneous Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. KING, Mrs. Hamilton.—The Disciples. Sixth Edition, with Portrait and Notes. Crown 8vo, 5a A Book of Dreams. Crown Svo, 3a 6d. KNOX, The Hon. Mrs. O. N—Four Pictures from a Life, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3a 6d.A List of 36 LANG, A.—XXXII Ballades in Blue China. Elzevir 8vo, parchment, Sr. LAWSON, Right Hon. Mr. Justice.—Hymni Usitati Latine Redditi : with other Verses. Small 8vo, parchment, Sr. Lessings Nathan the Wise. Translated by Eustace K. Corbett. Crown 8vo, 6r. Life Thoughts. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Living English Poets MDCCCLXXXII. With Frontispiece by Walter Crane. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo. Printed on hand-made paper. Parchment, I2r. ; vellum, isr. LOCKER, F.— London Lyrics. A New and Cheaper Edition. Small crown 8vo, 2r. 6d. Love in Idleness. A Volume of Poems. With an etching by W. B. Scott. Small crown 8vo, 5r. Love Sonnets of Proteus. With Frontispiece by the Author. Elzevir 8vo, 5r. LUMSDEN, Lieut.-Col. II. W.—Beowulf : an Old English Poem. Translated into Modern Rhymes. Second and Revised Edition. Small crown 8vo, 5r. Lyre and Star. Poems by the Author of “ Ginevra,” etc. Crown 8vo, 5r. MAGNUSSON, Eirikr, M.A., and PALMER, E. H., M.A.—Johan Ludvig Runeberg’s Lyrical Songs, Idylls, and Epi- grams. Fcap. 8vo, 5^. M.D.C.—Chronicles of Christopher Columbus. A Poem in Twelve Cantos. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. MEREDITH, Owesi [The Earl of I.ytton\.—Lucile. New Edition. With 32 Illustrations. i6mo, 3s. 6d. Cloth extra, gilt edges, 4J-. 6d. MORRIS, Lewis.—Poetical Works of. New and Cheaper Editions, with Portrait. Complete in 3 vols., $s. each. Vol. I. contains “ Songs of Two Worlds.” Ninth Edition. Vol. II. contains “ The Epic of Hades.” Seventeenth Edition. Vol. III. contains “ Gwen ” and “ The Ode of Life.” Fifth Edition. The Epic of Hades. With 16 Autotype Illustrations, after the Drawings of the late George R. Chapman. 410, cloth extra, gilt leaves, 21 s. The Epic of Hades. Presentation Edition. 4to, cloth extra, gilt leaves, ioj. 6d. Songs Unsung. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. MORSHEAD, E. D. A. — The House of Atreus. Being the Agamemnon, Libation-Bearers, and Furies of Aischylus. Trans- lated into English Verse. Crown 8vo, 7s. The Suppliant Maidens of -eEschylus. Crown Svo, 3*. 6d.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. NADEN, Constance W.— Songs and Sonnets of Spring Time. Small crown 8vo, 51. NEWELL, E. J.—The Sorrows of Simona and Lyrical Verses. Small crown Svo, 3*. 6a. NOEL, The Hon. Roden.—A Little Child’s Monument. Third Edition. Small crown Svo, 3r. 6d. The Red Flag, and other Poems. New Edition. Small crown Svo, 6s. O’HAGAN, John.—The Song of Roland. Translated into English Verse. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. PFEIFFER, Emily.—The Rhyme of the Lady of the Lock, and How it Grew. Small crown Svo, 3.1. 6d. Gerard’s Monument, and other Poems. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. Under the Aspens: Lyrical and Dramatic. With Portrait. Crown Svo, 6s. P/A TT, J. J.—Idyls and Lyrics of the Ohio Valley. Crown- Svo, 5r. POE, Edgar Allan.—Poems. With an Essay on his Poetry by Andrew Lang, and a Frontispiece by Linley Sambourne. Parchment Library Edition.—Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. RAFFALOVICH, Mark Andre. — Cyril and Lionel, and other Poems. A volume of Sentimental Studies. Small crown Svo, 3s. 6d. Rare Poems of the 16th and 17th Centuries. Edited W. J. Linton. Crown 8vo, 51-. RHOADES, James.—The Georgies of Virgil. Translated into- English Verse. Small crown Svo, 5-r. ROBINSON, A. Mary F.—A Handful of Honeysuckle. Fcap. 8vo, 3*. 6d. The Crowned Hippolytus. Translated from Euripides. With New Poems. Small crown 8vo, 5-r. Schiller’s Mary Stuart. German Text, with English Translation on opposite page by Leedham White. Crown Svo, 6s. SCOTT, George F. E.—Theodora and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 3*. 6d. SEAL, W. H.—lone, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, gilt tops, 51-. SELKIRK, J. B.—Poems. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. Shakspere’s Sonnets. Edited by Edward Dowden. With a Fron- tispiece etched by Leopold Lowenstam, after the Death Mask. Parchment Library Edition.—Parchment or cloth, 6s.; vellum, 7s. 6d.A List of 33 . Shakspere’s 'Works. Complete in 12 Volumes. Parchment Library Edition.—Parchment or cloth, 6s. each; vellum, 7s. 6d. each. SHA J-V, W. F., M.A.— Juvenal, Persius, Martial, and Catullus. An Experiment in Translation. Crown 8vo, Sr. SHELLEY, Percy Bysshe.—Poems Selected from. Dedicated to Lady Shelley. With Preface by Richard Garnett. Parchment Library Edition.—Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. Six Ballads about King Arthur. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3r. 6d. SKINNER, LI. J.—The Lily of the Lyn, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3J. 6d. SLADEN, Douglas B.—Frithjof and Ingebjorg, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, Sr. SMITH\ J. IV. Gilbart.—The Loves of Vandyck. A Tale of Genoa. Small crown 8vo, 2r. 6d. Sophocles I The Seven Plays in English Verse. Translated by Lewis Campbell. Crown 8vo, 7r. 6d. SPICER, Henry.—Haska : a Drama in Three Acts (as represented at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, March 10th, 1877). Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. TA YLOR, Sir H.—Works. Complete in Five Volumes. Crown 8vo, 3or. Philip Van Artevelde. Fcap. 8vo, 3r. 6d. The Virgin Widow, etc. Fcap. 8vo, 3r. 6d. The Statesman. Fcap. 8vo, 3r. 6d. TAYLOR, Augustus.-—Poems. Fcap. 8vo, Sr. Tennyson Birthday Book, The. Edited by Emily Siiakespeau. 32mo, limp, 2r. ; cloth extra, 3r. *** A superior Edition, printed in red and black, on antique paper, specially prepared. Small crown 8vo, extra, gilt leaves, 5r. ; and in various calf and morocco bindings. THORNTON, L. M.— The Son of Shelomith. Small crown 8vo, 31. 6 d. TODIIUNTER, Dr. J.—Laurella, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 6r. 6d. Forest Songs. Small crown Svo, 35. 6d. The True Tragedy of Rienzi: a Drama. 3.1. 6d. Alcestis : a Dramatic Poem. Extra fcap. Svo, 5r. WALTERS, Sophia Lydia.—A Dreamer’s Sketch Book. With 21 Illustrations by Percival Skelton, R. P. Leitch, W. H. J. Boot, and T. R. Pritchett. Engraved byj. D. Cooper. Fcap. 4to, I2r. 6a. WA T7S, Alaric Alfred and Anna Mary Hoiuitt.—Aurora. A Medley of Verse. Fcap. Svo, bevelled boards, $s.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 39 WEBSTER, Augusta.—In a Day : a Drama. Small crown Svo, 2s. 6d. Disguises : a Drama. Small crown Svo, 5^. Wet Days. By a Farmer. Small crown 8vo, 6j. WILLIAMS, J.—A Story of Three Years, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 3^. 6d. Wordsworth Birthday Book, The. Edited by Adelaide and Violet Wordsworth. 321110, limp cloth, is. 6d.; cloth extra, 2s. YOUNGS, Ella Sharpe.—Paphus, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 3-l WORKS OF FICTION IN ONE VOLUME. BANK'S, Mrs. G. L— God’s Providence House. New Edition. Crown Svo, 3^. 6d. INGELOW, Jean.—Off the Skelligs : a Novel. With Frontispiece. Second Edition. Crown'Svo, 6s. MACDONALD, G.—Castle Warlock. A Novel. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. Malcolm. With Portrait of the Author engraved on Steel. Sixth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. The Marquis of Lossie. Fifth Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. St. George and St. Michael. Fourth Edition. With Frontis- piece. Crown Svo, 6s. PALGRAVE, W. Gifford.—Hermann Agha ; an Eastern Narrative. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. SHA W, Flora L.—Castle Blair ; a Story of Youthful Days. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 35. 6cl. STRETTON, Hesba.—Through a Needle’s Eye : a Story. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, bs. TAYLOR, Col. Meadows, C.S.I., M.R.I.A.—Seeta : a Novel. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s. Tippoo Sultaun : a Tale of the Mysore War. New Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6j. Ralph Darnell. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. A Noble Queen. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontis- piece. Crown 8vo, 6s. The Confessions of a Thug. Crown Svo, 6s. Tara ; a Mahratta Tale. Crown Svo, 6r. Within Sound of the Sea. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontis- piece. Crown Svo, 6s.40 A List of Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. Brave Men’s Footsteps. A Book of Example and Anecdote for Young People. By the Editor of “Men who have Risen.” With 4 Illustrations by C. Doyle. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3*. 6d COXIIEAD, Ethel.—Birds and Babies. Imp. i6mo. With 33 Illustrations. Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. DAVIES, G. Christopher.—Rambles and Adventures of our School Field Club. With 4 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. EDMONDS, Herbert.—Well Spent Lives : a Series of Modern Bio- graphies. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 3*. 6d. EVANS, Mark.—The Story of our Father’s Love, told to Children. Sixth and Cheaper Edition of Theology for Children. With 4 Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. JOHNSON, Virginia IV.—The Catskill Fairies. Illustrated by Alfred Fredericks. 51. MAC HENNA, S. J.—Plucky Fellows. A Book for Boys. With 6 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. REANEY, Mrs. G. S.—Waking and Working ; or, From Girlhood to Womanhood. New and Cheaper Edition. With a Frontis- piece. Crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. Blessing and Blessed: a Sketch of Girl Life. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. Rose Gurney’s Discovery. A Book for Girls. Dedicated to their Mothers. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. English Girls Their Place and Power. With Preface by the Rev. R. W. Dale. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. Just Anyone, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo, is, 6d. Sunbeam W'illie, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo, u. 6d. Sunshine Jenny, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo, is. 6d. STOCKTON, Frank R.—A Jolly Fellowship. With 20 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 5r. STORE, Francis, and TURNER, Hawes.—Canterbury Chimes; or, Chaucer Tales re-told to Children. With 6 Illustrations from the Ellesmere MS. Third Edition. Fcap. Svo, 35. 6d. STRETTON, Hesba.—David Lloyd’s Last Will. With 4 Illustra- tions. New Edition. Royal i6mo, 2s. 6d. Tales from Ariosto Re-told for Children. By a Lady. With 3 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 41. 6d. WHITAKER, Florence.—Christy’s Inheritance. A London Story. Illustrated. Royal iCmo, u. 6d. VKINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCI.ES. rRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks Deacidification D A