HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY". 30 DESCRIPTION OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION, M PLATE 7. 1. The windpipe for conveying air to the lungs, or the Trachea. 2. The branches of ditto, or the Right and Left Bronchus. 3. The chief organs of respiration, or the Right and Left Lungs. 4. The chief organ of circulation, or the Heart. 5. The Aorta, forming an arch over the heart and passing downwards. 6. The branches of the aorta leading to the Head and Neck, or the Carotid arteries. 7. The upper large branch of the veins, or the Superior Vena Cava. 8. The branches bringing back the blood from the head, &c, or the Jugular Veins. 9. The lower large branch of the veins, or the Inferior Vena Cava. 10. The vessel which conveys the blood to the Lungs, or the Pulmonary Artery. 11. The right and left branches of ditto. 12. The vessels for bringing back the blood from the Lungs, or the four Pul- monary Veins. 13. A Section of the bag which envelopes the heart, the Pericardium. 14. The space between the lungs, or the Mediastinum. SECTION OF THE HEART. 1. The vessels which convey the venous blood to the Heart, or the two Vena Cava. 2. The compartment into which it is first emptied, or the Right Auricle. 3. The opening to the lower compartment on the right side, with the Tri- cuspid Valve. 4. The compartment from which it is forced into the lungs, or the Right Ventricle. 5. The vessel which conveys the blood to the lungs to be purified, or the Pul- monary Artery. 6. The vessels which convey the pure blood back from the lungs, or two of the Pulmonary Veins, the other two being hid by other vessels. 7. The compartment into which the pure blood is emptied, or the Left Auricle. 8. The opening to the lower compartment on the left side, with the Mitral Valve. 9. The compartment from which it is forced up into the Aorta, or the Left Ventricle. THE SIDE DIAGRAMS. a. A section of a vein showing the semi-lunar Valves in its interior. b. Is intended to convey some idea of the manner in which the ultimate branches of the Pulmonary arteries and veins are spread out over the air vesicles of the lungs.