HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 8 DESCRIPTION OF THE CHIEE MUSCLES ON THE FRONT FIGURE. PLATE 2. I. The broad muscle of the Skull, or the Oecipito Frontalis. 2 The three muscles for moving the Ear, or the Aural muscles. 3 The circular muscle of the Eye, or the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. i. The muscle to raise the upper Eyelid, or the Levator Palpebrae. 5. The four muscles of the Nose, or the Nasal muscles. 6. The circular muscle of the Lips, or the Orbicularis Oris. 7 The muscles to raise the upper Lip, or the Levator Labn Superior. _ 8 The muscles to depress the lower Lip, or the Depressor Labn Interior. 9. The muscles for drawing up the comers of the Mouth, or the Levator Anguli and Zygomatic muscles. 10. The muscles for drawing down the corners of the Mouth, or the Depressor Anguli Oris. II. The muscles for lessening the cavity of the Mouth, or the Buccinator THUS clc S 12. The muscles for drawing up the lower Jaw, or the Masseter and Temporal muscles. 13 The muscles for drawing down the lower Jaw, or the Digastncus. 14 The muscles to turn and bend the head, or the Mastoideus muscles. 15 The thin muscles of the Neck, or the Platysma Myoides muscles. 16 The muscles to draw the Shoulders forward, or the Great Serratus muscles. 17 The muscle for raising the Arm at the shoulder joint, or the Deltoid muscle 18. The muscles for drawing the Arm towards the chest, or the Great and Little Pectoral muscles-. , 19 The muscles for bending the Fore arm, or the Biceps and Brachials muscles 20. The muscles for bending the Fingers, or the Deep and Superficial Ilexors or the fingers. . 1 , 21. The muscles for turning the Palm of the hand up and down, or the two Supinators and two Pronators. . B1 22. The muscles for causing quick movements of the Fingers, or the lalmar 23. Th^mi^cles to draw up the Ribs in breathing, or the Intercostal muscles. 24. The muscles to draw down the Ribs and compress the Abdomen, or the Oblique and Straight Abdominal muscles. 25 *The muscles to bend the Thigh on the body, or the Psoas {a) and Iliac muscles (b). . , -p , 26. The muscles to straighten the Leg, or the Rectus Femons (c), the Kectus Cruris (/), the Vastus Externus (d), and Vastus Interims muscles {e). 27. The muscles for crossing the Legs, or the Sartorius muscles. 28. The muscles for bending the Foot and extending the Toes or the Iront Tibial, the Peroneal, and Long and Short Extensor muscles of the toes. 29. The muscles for causing quick movements of the Toes, or the Dorsal ana Plantar muscles. 30. The annular, or ring-like ligament of the Foot. The superficial muscles are supposed to be removed from the left side of the figure, in order to show those beneath them. * a. On the side diagram is intended to stow the contrac tion of the muscular fibre.