i6 On the Heart and Blood .apparatus of fibres, and braces, and valves, and vessels, and auricles, and in both the same infarction of blood, in the subjects of our dissections, of the like black -colour, and coagulated—why, I say, should their uses be imagined to be different, when the action, motion, and pulse of both are the same ? If the three tricuspid valves placed at the entrance into the right ventricle prove obstacles to the reflux of the blood into the vena cava, and if the three semilunar valves which are situated at the commencement of the pulmonary artery ■be there, that they may prevent the return of the blood into the ventricle ; wherefore, when we find similar structures in connexion with the left ventricle, should we deny that they are there for the same end, of preventing here the egress, there the regurgitation of the blood ? 2. And again, when we see that these structures, in point of size, form, and situation, are almost in every respect the same in the left as in the right ventricle, wherefore should it be maintained that things are here arranged in connexion with the egress and regress of spirits, there, i.e. in the right, of blood? The same arrangement cannot be held fitted to favour or impede the motion of blood and of spirits indifferently. 3. And when we observe that the passages and vessels .are severally in relation to one another in point of size, viz., the pulmonary artery to the pulmonary veins ; wherefore should the one be imagined destined to a private or particular purpose, that, to wit, of nourishing the lungs, the other to a public and general function ? 4. And, as Realdus Columbus says, how can it be ■ conceived that such a quantity of blood should be required for the nutrition of the lungs ; the vessel that leads to them, the vena arteriosa or pulmonary artery ibeing of greater capacity than both the iliac veins ? 5. And I ask further: as the lungs are so close at hand, and in continual motion, and the vessel that ^supplies them is of such dimensions, what is the use