XX Editors Introduction after personal experience, not to rely on the experience of others : without which indeed no one can properly become a student of any branch of natural science." Referring to his own particular work he says : " I would not have you therefore, gentle reader, to take anything on trust from me cocicerning the Generation of Animals : I appeal to your own eyes as my witness and .judge. For as all true science rests upon those principles which have their origin in the operation of the senses, par- ticular care is to be taken that by repeated dissection the grounds of our present subject be fully established. . . . The method of investigating truth commonly pursued at this time therefore is to be held erroneous and almost foolish, in which so many inquire what others have said, and omit to ask whether the things themselves be actually so or not." When the King made Oxford his headquarters, Harvey was with him, and was appointed head of Merton College. But in 1646, on Oxford surrender- ing to the Parliamentary forces, he gave up his warden- ship and quitted the city. Having no call to take an active part in the political contest, and now verging on threescore-and-ten, he retired from his position of physician to the King and went to London, where he was hospitably entertained in the houses of his brothers, who were wealthy merchants in the City. Here he no doubt once again devoted himself to scientific observation, the nature of which became evident, when in 1651 he was persuaded, somewhat against his own inclination, by his friend. Dr. George Ent, to allow the publication of his book on "The Generation of Animals." In this work he appears as a pioneer in the difScult science of Embryology, working under most adverse conditions, for he had no microscope worthy of the name. Whilst, therefore, of no great value in the light of our present know- Jedge, it is a monument of the author's industry and 'of his enthusiastic devotion to physiological research.