Letters 187 tongue. But for various reasons, and led by several experiments, I could never be brought to believe that that milky fluid was chyle conducted hither from the- intestines, and distributed to all parts of the body for their nourishment; but that it- was rather met with occasionally and by accident, and proceeded from too- ample a supply of nourishment and a peculiar vigour of concoction; in virtue of the same law of nature, in short, as that by which fat, marrow, semen, hair, &c.,, are produced; even as in the due digestion of ulcers pus is formed, which the nearer it approaches to the- consistency of milk, viz. as it is whiter, smoother, and more homogeneous, is held more laudable, so that some of the ancients thought pus and milk were of the- same nature, or nearly allied. Wherefore, although there can be no question of the existence of the vessels themselves, still I can by no means agree with Aselli in, considering them as chyliferous vessels, and this especi- ally for the reasons about to be given, which lead me to- a different conclusion. For the fluid contained in the- lacteal veins appears to me to be pure milk, such as is found in the lacteal veins [the milk ducts] of the- mammae. Now it does not seem to me very probable (any more than it does to Auzotius in his letter to Pecquet) that the milk is chyle, and thus that the whole body is nourished by means of milk. The reasons which lead to a contrary conclusion, viz. that it is chyle, are not of such force as to compel my assent. I should first desire to have it demonstrated tO' me by the clearest reasonings, and the guarantee of experiments, that the fluid contained in these vessels was chyle, which, brought hither from the intestines, supplies nourishment to the whole body. For unless- we are agreed upon the first point, any ulterior, any more operose, discussion of their nature, is in vain. But how can these vessels serve as conduits for the whole of the chyle, or the nourishment of the body, when we see that they are different in diff"erent animals ?