Motion of the io6 And many things having reference to the arteries farther illustrate and confirm this truth. Why does not the arteria venosa pulsate, seeing that it is num- l)ered among the arteries ? Or wherefore is there a pulse in the vena arteriosa ? Because the pulse of the arteries is derived from the impulse of the blood. IVhy does an artery differ so much from a vein in the thickness and strength of its coats ? Because it sustains the shock of the impelling heart and streaming blood. Hence, as perfect nature does nothing in vain, and suffices under all circumstances, we find that the nearer the arteries are to the heart, the more do they differ from the veins in structure; here they are both •stronger and more ligamentous, whilst in extreme parts of the body, such as the feet and hands, the brain, the mesentery, and the testicles, the two orders of vessels are so much alike that it is impossible to distinguish between them with the eye. Now this is for the following very sufficient reasons : for the more remote vessels are from the heart, with so much the less force are they impinged upon by the stroke of the heart, which is broken by the great distance at which it is given. Add to this, that the impulse of the heart exerted upon the mass of blood, which must needs ■fill the trunks and branches of the arteries, is diverted, divided, as it were, and diminished at every sub- division ; so that the ultimate capillary divisions of the arteries look like veins, and this not merely in constitution but in function ; for they have either no perceptible pulse, or they rarely exhibit one, and never ■save where the heart beats more violently than wont, or at a part where the minute vessel is more dilated or -open than elsewhere. Hence it happens that at times ■ we are aware of a pulse in the teeth, in inflammatory • tumours, and in the fingers ; at another time we feel; nothing of the sort. Hence, too, by this single symptom! I have ascertained for certain that young persons,, whose pulses are naturally rapid, were labouring under: