Heart and Blood 51 arteries of the body, but that this is effected by the ceaseless pulsation of the heart and the motion of the lungs in breathing. _There are, as ^every one knows, three sigmoid or sennIunarTalve£situated at the orifice of the milmonary -^^rgry^vvhrrTi f^prfiial^^^^^ sent into the ^gsseT from returnino; into the cavity of the heart. JNow""Galen, explaining the uses of these valves, and the necessity for them, employs the following lan- guage: ^ "There is everywhere a mutual anastomosis and inosculation of the arteries with the veins, and they severally transmit both blood and spirit, by certain invisible and undoubtedly very narrow passages. Now if the mouth of the vena arteriosa, or pulmonary artery, had stood in like manner continually open, and nature had found no contrivance for closing it when requisite, and opening it again, it would have been impossible that the blood could ever have passed by the invisible and delicate mouths, during the contractions of the thorax, into the arteries ; for all things are not alike readily attracted or repelled ; but that which is light is more readily drawn in, the instrument being dilated, and forced out again when it is contracted, than that which is heavy ; and in like manner is anything drawn more rapidly along an ample conduit, and again driven forth, than it is through a narrow tube. But when the thorax is contracted, the pulmonary veins, which are in the lungs, being driven inwardly, and powerfully compressed on every side, immediately force out some of the spirit they contain, and at the same time assume a certain portion of blood by those subtile mouths ; a thing that could never come to pass were the blood at liberty to flow back into the heart through the great orifice of the pulmonary artery. But its return through this great opening being prevented, when it is com- pressed on every side, a certain portion of it distils into the pulmonary veins by the minute orifices mentioned." ' De Usu partium, lib. vi. cap. lo.