Popular Books on Cookery, &c. By C. HEKMAN SENN. The New Century Cookery Book. The New, Re- vised, and Enlarged Edition is now ready. Price, sis. ; post free 2IS. gd. A work full of sound and useful information, and of the greatest service to every Cook, Manager, or Steward. It is the most complete and reliable of all vade mecums for Chefs. It is hanay, volluminous, and skillfully arranged and easily consulted. Profusely illustrated. Strongly bound in leather back. Edition de Luxe, 33s. Practical Cookery Manual- Price i/-; post free, 1/2. A book of simple but practical recipes and instructions, for Plain and Middle-class Cookery. 178 pages. Kecherche ciide Dishes (Hors-d’CZuvre and Savouries). Price, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. gd. Fourth Enlarged and Revised Edition, now ready. A handy book of recipes for dainty Hors-d'QEuvre, Savouries, Salads, Sandwiches, and Orien- tal Dishes, containing nearly 600 reliable recipes. bavoury Breakfast, Dinner and bupper Dishes. Price 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. gd. A collection of carefully pre- pared useful recipes of easy and distinct directions for economi- cal as well as elaborate d'shes. Cookery for Invalids and the Convalescent. Price, IS. ; post free, is. 2d. A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for in- valids and convalescents. Diet Tables and other useful informa- tion. bimple Cookery for the People. Price 2d., post free. A collection of palatable and inexpensive dishes, as taught in connection with the popular Cookery Lessons, organised by the Universal Cookery and Food Association. The Main Cookery Book. A valuable book, which covers all departments of Middle-class Cookery. It is especially adapted for small families. There are several excellent features in the book which render it particularly practical for family cooks. Price, is. ; post free, is. 2d. A Book of Salads ; or. The Art of Salad Dressing. By Alfred Suzanne. This little book is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains recipes for Green Salads, Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Price, is. 6d. ; post free, is. 8d. Ices, and Howto Make Them. Price 1/6; po.st free, IS. 8d. A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc. etc. Curries, and How to Prepare Them. Compiled by J. Edmunds, with recipes by C. Francatelli, C. Herman Senn and others. Price, 6d. ; post free, 7d. Practical Gastronomy &. French Menus ; or. The Complete Menu Compiler and Register of Dishes. By C. Herman Senn. Price, 5s. ; post free, 5s. 3d. A practical trea- tise of up-to-date Cookery and Gastronomy. This is not a recipe book, but a guide-book and everyday manual for Chefs, Managers, and Housekeepers. Table Serviettes : How To Fold Them. Price i/o, post free. The Art of Napkin Folding fully explained, and pro- fusely illustrated by means of 130 diagrams and half-tone por- traits. Any of the above-mentioned Works may be obtained from the— Food & Cookery Publishing Agency 329, Vauxhall Bridg-e Road, LONDON, S.W.