CHAP. XXIV.] 179 'I'M K IN VI'A "VIVK GRANULOMATA. down and ulcerates, or is re-absorbed. Some part of the cells go to form a cicatrix. Fig. 34. Section of a syphilitic haed sore. (Alum-carmine preparation: x 350) a infiltration with round-cells b large uninuclear, c multinuclear, formative cells Nothing certain is known concerning the nature of the syphilitic virus. Klebs (Arch. f. exp. Path, x) regards the disease as a parasitic bacterial affection. Our histological knowledge of syphilitic growths is mainly due to Virchow (Kranh. Geschwiilste ii), E. Wagner (Arch. d. Heilk. IV, 1863), Auspitz and Unna (Vierteljahrsschr. f. Derm, und Syph. iv, 1877). See also Baumler, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vol. in; Van Oordt, Des tumeurs gommeuses In. Diss. Paris 1859 ; Cornil and Banvier, Man. of Path. Hist. vol. i. 129. After a certain time the 'initial sclerosis' or hard sore is followed by inflammations of the lymphatic glands, skin, and mucous membrane. These are the ' secondary symptoms.' Still later appear syphilitic inflammations of the viscera and bones. These are the ' tertiary symptoms.' The various inflammations are for the most part similar to other, non-syphilitic, inflammations. Certain special granulomatous formations are also developed which are called syphilomata (Wagner) or gummata, and condylomata. The syphilitic condyloma {condyloma latum or mucous patch) is a raised level patch on the skin or mucous membrane, due to inflammatory change in the epidermis and corium, or in the epithe- lium. The upper layers of the corium, and especially the papillae, swell up greatly owing to infiltrations of cells and liquid exudations. The cutis appears as a loose sodden gelatinous tissue infiltrated with cells (Fig. 35 i and k). There is no true granulation-tissue as a rule, for no organisation of the cellular material takes place, and no new vessels are formed. In condylomata of the mucous membranes, the tissue may take on something of the look of granulations owing to abundant cell-production. The epithelium is usually swollen (Fig. 35 e f g) and infiltrated with cellular and liquid exudations. The syphilitic gumma in its earlier stages is histologically very similar to the condyloma. The gumma is a circumscribed patch of 12—2