[SECT. VI. 194 TUMOUES. by the direct penetration of the tumour-tissue into the lumen of a blood-vessel. The development of the daughter-tumour starts unquestionably from these transported germs. This is probable a priori from the fact—that the metastatic or secondary tumour has always the same structure as the primary. The germs are, furthermore, essentially composed of cells in a condition of vital activity. The share taken by the matrix-tissue in which the germs are deposited is not always the same. In all cases it must furnish the necessary nutriment and blood-vessels, for without these no new growth is possible. But it very often furnishes other elements, and especially connective tissue. Proliferation is set up around the transplanted germs, and tissue is thereby formed; while migratory leucocytes generally contribute something to the whole. The secondary tumours developed may vary greatly in number. They are usually marked off definitely from the surrounding tissue; it is very uncommon for metastases of the kind to take the form of diffuse infiltration. This happens (if at all) in the case of bone, which may be transformed into tumour-tissue by secondary change affecting almost the entire skeleton. Metastases are not invariably produced by all tumours: many of these never extend beyond the limits of their primary seat. The clinical character of benignancy or innocency is generally correlated with this property of tumours: malignancy is a character of the metastatic varieties. Other marks of malignancy are—the tendency to infiltrate and so destroy the surrounding tissue; and the tendency to recur after apparent extirpation. Malignancy, or the tendency of a tumour to invade the neighbouring tissue and to produce metastatic tumours, is usually regarded as an inherent property of the tumour. Cohnheim has recently expressed a different opinion (Allg. Path. i). He tries to explain malignancy by assuming that the physio- logical resistances to invasion are somehow diminished. Germs transplanted into fresh tissue are sure, he thinks, to perish in consequence of the normal chemical or metabolic changes which go on in the tissue. They can only develope when these metabolic changes cease to be normal. His main ground for this view is derived from an experiment made by himself and Maas {Virch. Arch. vol. 70). They introduced pieces of living periosteum into the pulmonary vessels, and found that they grew for a time, but were ultimately absorbed and disappeared. The diminished resisting power of the tissues may be either congenital or acquired. The latter is especially the case in advanced *age. Ziegler is unable fully to agree with this view. Though the condition of the tissue has undoubtedly a great influence on the development of a germ transplanted into it, yet this alone cannot determine the malignity of the parent tumour. It surely depends on the structure and texture of the tumour whether its germs can be carried off at all, and transported by the stream of lymph or blood. And the faculty of developing in proper circumstances must be inherent in the germs themselves. Zahn (Sur le sort des tissus emplantes dans Vorganisme Geneva 1878) found that foetal tissues continued to grow for a time, when introduced into the body of an animal. Leopold has quite recently confirmed this observation (Virch. Arch. vol. 85). Pieces of living