CHAP. XXVII.] EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. CAPCINOMA. 247 175. Carcinoma is very prone to undergo retrogressive change. In the juice scraped from the cut surface of a cancer we may nearly always find cells which are fatty or disintegrating. This is especially the case in soft quickly-growing tumours. If the fatty change is extensive the affected spots look white and opaque, and by and by break down into a creamy pulp. The disintegrated cells may 'also become condensed into cheesy masses. More commonly, however, we find that a part of the cells become absorbed. In tumours lying beneath the surface of an organ or raised above its general level, a central depression or dimple may thus be formed. The tumour is then said to be umbilicated. In cancers with a dense stroma, in which the disappearance of the cells is accompanied by hyperplasia of the fibrous elements, we may find the original growth replaced by a dense coarse deposit of fibrous tissue containing few if any cancerous cell-nests. This transformation is specially frequent in the case of mammary and gastric scirrhus. Mucoid degeneration has already been discussed (Art. 173). Amyloid degeneration of the stroma has frequently been observed. The necrotic disintegration of cancerous growths, and the consequent formation of cancerous ulcers, deserve special mention. Tumours of great size may in this way be wholly destroyed. In intestinal cancer, for example, it is no rare thing to find after a certain time nothing but an ulceration, replacing the original tumour, and bearing hardly any resemblance to it. If the ulcerative process is not far advanced, the remains of the tumour may be recognised as nodules or papillary excrescences rising from the base or border of the ulcer. In later stages the base may be smooth and clean, consisting simply of firm fibrous tissue; Avhile the edges rise like ramparts, or are beset with papillary or nodular growths. Now and then these may disappear in like manner, and the ulcer appears as a non-cancerous sore with an indurated base. Even on section it may not always be possible with the unaided eye to decide whether the tissue still contains cell-nests or not. We must in such cases have recourse to the microscope. Cutaneous or epitheliomatous cancers, like those of mucous membrane, may also ulcerate; and so too may cancers of the mamma or other subcutaneous glands. The surface of these breaks down, and great putrid or foetid ulcers are the result. The seat of an ulcer is always the seat of a more or less intense inflammatory infiltration. Sometimes this results in vigorous granulative proliferation, the granulations rising above the surface as fungous excrescences. They are distinguished from ordinary granulations by the cell-nests they contain. From this granulation- tissue ordinary cicatricial tissue may be elaborated. A sort of local healing and recovery may thus result—from the destruction of the tumour, and the formation of granulative and cicatricial tissue. The growth may seem to have altogether disappeared. But this