CHAPTER XVI. FORMATION OF PIGMENT IN THE TISSUES. 67. The fibrous as well as the epithelial tissues, in certain regions, contain a normal pigment. It lies within the cells in the form of yellow, brownish, or black granules; or the cells may seem more or less uniformly impregnated and stained. Of the pigmented epithelia the best examples are the deepest layer of the rete Malpighii, and the retinal epithelium. In the former the granules are mostly yellow or brown, in the latter they are black (melanin). When the coloration of the skin is more marked, pigment is found in the other cellular layers of the rete. Among fibrous tissues the pia mater, the choroid, the sclerotic, and the cutis are the most frequently pigmented: and brown or yellow granules are likewise found in the connective-tissue cells of the heart-muscle. These pigmentations may become more marked under patho- logical conditions. Thus in Addison's disease, in the course of a general disorder leading to profound cachexia and associated as a rule with changes in the supra-renal bodies, the normal pigment of the skin increases and the consequent colour-changes are very pronounced (cutis aenea or bronzing). So too in atrophic conditions of the heart, the normal pigment is markedly increased. In the voluntary muscles also when they pass into atrophy, yellow pigment is frequently discoverable. The highest degree of pathological pigmentation is met with in morbid new growths, such as tumours (naevi, melano-carcinomata, melano-sarcomata). The amount of pigment may become so great that the tissue looks uniformly and intensely black. The pigment lies usually within the cells of the tissue, less often in the intercellular substance. In either case, as above remarked, it may take the form of yellow, brown, or even black granules ; or of diffuse staining of the protoplasm. Of its mode of formation we know nothing. It is possible that the colouring- matter is derived from the blood, but we are unable to determine in what way the derivation is effected. 7—2