M. 1 INTRODUCTION. Life is known to us only in the concrete. It is indissolubly bound to a material substance. This substance, the basis of all the vital processes, is fashioned out of cells and their derivatives. All living organisms are made up of cells and cell-derivatives. The cell by itself appears originally as a microscopic mass of pale slimy finely-granular matter, the so-called protoplasm. It usually contains within it a nucleus, that is to say a structure like a tiny vesicle, whose form may be round, oval, rod-like, or irregular, and in whose interior we can make out by proper handling (1) small definite bodies, the nucleus corpuscles, (2) a net-like framework of nucleus substance, and (3) a clear fluid, the nucleus juice. The young cell is at first naked. Only in its maturer stages does it develope on its surface an optically distinct membrane or other structure according to the special tissue of which it forms a part. The vital activity of the cell is of a threefold kind. It is directed in part toward its self-preservation, in part toward its propagation, and in part toward the ordering of its outward relations. VlRCHOW distinguishes these severally as the nutritive, formative, and functional activities. Many of the functions of the cell (including the chemical changes which always accompany them) cannot be directly observed and are only to be made out by their effects. Others again like motion, growth, and multiplication, can be observed in proper specimens under the microscope. Every cell whether it be isolated or joined with others is influenced by the nature of its environment. This may work either to further or to hinder some or all of the functions of the cell. To a certain extent indeed the cell may exist unaffected by this influence in virtue of its own inherent properties, but the range of this independence is very limited. Let the external conditions deviate from the normal by more than a certain small amount and disturbances of the cell-functions at once show them- selves. These disturbances may amount to the complete arrest of all signs of cell-life or even to the utter destruction of the cell as such.