PARASITES. 272 [SECT. VII. alcoholic fermentation will begin. Add now from four to five per cent, of tartaric acid, and mouldy growths appear. The tartaric acid does not kill the other fungi; it merely favours one more than the others. Thus it is that in grape-must it is only the yeast-fungi which flourish, though other germs are certainly present. Only when the sugar is all used up have the bacteria a chance to multiply, and then they set up acetous fermentation. Mould-fungi may then develope in the presence of the vinegar, and they consume the acetic acid. Lastly, when this is done, the bacteria reappear and set up putrefaction. Even among the Bacteria themselves a like mutual interference and struggle for existence is observed. Micrococci may be thrust aside by microbacteria. Bacilli may be killed by Bacterium termo, when the supply of oxygen is insufficient for both. It is also a point of importance, when there are various kinds of fungus-germs present, to know which kind is most abundant. If the soil be equally well adapted for two or more forms, the form represented by the majority of germs will have the advantage. Koch and Wolffhugel have made very careful investigations into the action of various substances on the life and multiplication of bacteria. (Mittheilungen (to. 1881). The subject has also been treated by Buchholtz {Arch. f. exp. Path, iv), Schotte and Gartner {Deutsche Viertelj. f. off. Gesund. xn 1880), Nageli {Die niederen Pilze Munich 1877 and 1882), Roberts (Phil. Trans. 1874), Hamlet (Journ. Chem. Soc. 1881), and many others. The following results of investigation are worthy of note. Corrosive sublimate has the most powerful effect on bacteria : an aqueous solution of 1 : 20,000 kills the spores of bacilli in ten minutes. A solution of 1:5,000 is thus a certain disinfectant, even when the time of exposure is very short. Mercuric sulphate is somewhat less active. Koch finds that an aqueous sublimate-solution of 1 : 300,000 puts a stop to the germination of bacterial spores. Sulphurous acid does not take a high place as a disinfectant. Bacteria clinging to dry objects are killed by twenty to thirty minutes' exposure to an atmosphere containing 1 vol. per cent, of sulphurous acid. Spores of B. subtilis and B. anthracis are still capable of development after ninety-six hours' exposure to an atmosphere containing 5 to 6 vols, per cent, of sulphurous acid. Even when moist they are very hard to kill with it. It is thus an altogether untrustworthy disinfectant, and all the more because it has little power of penetrating compact masses or bundles (Wolffhugel, Buchholtz, Schotte and Gartner, Koch, Buchner). Carbolic acid in 5 per cent, solution will kill the spores of the anthrax- bacillus in twenty-four hours. A 3 per cent, solution will not do so in the same time. The bacilli however are killed in a few minutes even by a 1 per cent, solution. A solution of 1:400 checks the development of bacterial spores. Vapour of carbolic acid at ordinary temperatures is without effect; at 55° C it kills spores in two or three hours (Koch, loc. cit.; De la Croix, Arch. f. exp. Path. xm). Chloride of zinc in 5 per cent, solution has no effect on anthrax-spores—even when they have lain in it for a month (Koch). Iodine, bromine, and chlorine are far more active than sulphurous acid. Bacilli cease to grow in presence of iodine in the proportion of 1:5,000, and of bromiue of 1 :1,500. Steam from bromine-water kills spores in twenty-four hours, from chlorine-water in two days. Iodine-water and chlorine-water kill spores in one day, a 5 per cent, solution of chloride of lime in ten days. Benzoic acid, sodium benzoate, potassium chlorate, and quinine have little