CHAPTER XIV. HYALINE DEGENERATION OF THE FIBROUS TISSUES. 63. Hyaline (or vitreous) degeneration of the fibrous tissues resembles amyloid degeneration in its superficial appearance as well as in its seat; but it does not give the special and peculiar reactions of the amyloid substance. It occurs chiefly in the adventitious tissue of the arteries. The adventitia becomes trans- formed into a shining, translucent, strongly-refracting substance, increasing at the same time in thickness. Water has no effect on this substance; iodine stains it pale yellow; ether and chloroform give no reaction. It thus resembles in many respects the colloid substance. It is specially common in the vessels of the brain and of the lymphatic glands (Wiegee). Apart from the blood-vessels a hyaline thickening is also observed in the stroma of tumours, in inflammatory hyperplasias, especially in those of hereditary syphilis (such as occur in the liver, for example), and in structureless mem- branes like the hyaloid membrane of the eye. As to the nature of the change nothing is known. Disturbances of the circulation (Wieger), and inflammations of the affected regions, have been mentioned as exciting causes. Wieger under the guidance of von Kecklinghausen has lately examined and described the hyaline degeneration of the lymphatic glands ( Virch. Arch. vol. 78). It seems to be very common in these organs. Memoirs on the hyaline degeneration of the cerebral vessels have been published by Arndt (Virch. Arch. vol. 41), Neelsen {Arch. d. Heilkunde xvn), Eppinger (Vicrtcl- jahrsschriftf. pract. Heillc. Prague 1875), Lubimopp {Arch. f. Psychiatric 1874), and others. The degeneration is found in the central nervous system in connexion with various disorders. Peters has quite recently (Virch. Arch. vol. 87) made a series of researches in von Kecklinghausen's laboratory on hyaline degeneration, and he manages to bring under this head all sorts of diverse changes and processes. Thus he includes under it inflammatory coagulations •within and without the blood-vessels, coagulative necrosis of the epithelia in diphtheritic inflammation, homogeneous coagulation in exuded fluids, the formation of false membranes, the mucoid metamorphoses of the epithelial cells of mucous membrane, and