CHAPTER XI. FATTY DEGENERATION. 50. If parenchymatous degeneration (Art. 48) go beyond a certain point, it often passes into fatty degeneration, that is to say, fat-globules form in the disintegrating cells. This variety of fatty degeneration is however of limited occurrence, compared with the other varieties to which the organism is liable. Fat, as we know, occurs in the body in considerable amount even under normal conditions. Certain regions, and especially certain tissues of the fibrous type, like the subcutaneous and subserous structures, the marrow, &c, are always rich in fat. The fat is as it were stored up in these special regions, being either derived from without, or formed on the spot in the cells of the tissue itself. Increase of the quantity in store, whether due to increased supply or diminished expenditure, does not rightly come under the title of fatty degeneration. We distinguish it as lipomatosis (obesity, adiposity). Within limits it must be deemed physiological: when excessive it may pass into the domain of pathology. In such extreme cases, fat is found in cells which normally contain none. The fatty deposit takes the form of oily drops, which soon coalesce into larger spherules; until at length a single large fat-globule occupies the entire cell. Fatty infiltration of this kind affects chiefly the cells of the connective tissue in particular regions, and the liver- cells. True fatty degeneration must of course be distinguished from lipomatosis or fatty infiltration. The fat which occurs in the former is not fat in store, so to speak: it is fat resulting from the disin- tegration of albumen in the affected cells. Inasmuch as fat is normally formed from the albumen of the cells, and is consumed as it is formed, we are driven to suppose that in fatty degeneration either the disintegration of albumen is increased, or the consumption of the fat produced is impeded. Both these things may occur, but it is specially to be noticed that in fatty degeneration the lost albumen is not replaced, so that the production of fat is associated with atrophy.