65 NECROSIS. CHAP. VIII.] coagulation of liquids contained in cellular tissues, the fibrinoplastic substance is yielded by the tissue-cells. These latter either dissolve altogether, or they permit their protoplasmic contents to escape in the shape of simple homogeneous masses. 36. In the second form of necrosis with coagulation, the knowledge of which we owe chiefly to Weigert, the circumstances and the appearances presented are essentially different from those of the first. Here as before we have to do with the death of tissue occurring under special conditions, and resulting in the formation of coagulated albuminoids: but the coagulation takes place not in a liquid but in the substance of formed tissue-elements, in cells and cellular or intercellular structures. If by reason of arrested nutrition, or by the action of chemical or thermal agencies, a definite segment of an organ be caused to die, and if then a moderate amount of lymph happen to flow through the necrosed segment, we have the conditions which give rise to coagulation within the tissue. The lymph contains fibrin- ogen, the cells contain fibrinoplastin; between them fibrin is produced. Cohnheim introduced the term coagulative necrosis to describe this special form of local death. Sometimes at least it may be fitly spoken of as hyaline necrosis. In this process the cells alter their appearance in various ways. The ultimate effect is always the destruction of the cells as such. The varieties of morphological change observed in coagulating cells and tissues are dependent, partly on diversity of structure in the tissues, partly on the quantity of fibrinogen effused. The manner in which necrosis has been brought about is indifferent; but the dying of the tissue must not be too protracted, or degene- rative processes, such as fatty change, may intervene and render the cells non-coagulable. The chief investigations on this subject of coagulative necrosis are those of Weigert. A summary of his results is given in Virch. Arch. vol. 79. The proof of the fact—that interfusion of lymph may cause the destruction of cells and the disappearance of their nuclei—was effected by introducing hardened pieces of tissue into the abdominal cavity of rabbits. These tissues were transformed in the manner described. Similar cell-changes to those produced in coagulative necrosis, and more especially the disappearance of nuclei, may also result from mere putrefaction. Coagulative necrosis may also be found combined with other retrogressive changes, such as fatty degeneration. 37. Among the numerous cases in which coagulative necrosis takes place must be mentioned embolic infarction. A certain time after the obstruction of an artery of the kidney or spleen, there is found lying beneath the capsule an opaque yellowish-white conical patch. This patch consists of necrosed kidney- or spleen- tissue, with perhaps fragments of disorganised and completely decolorised blood-clot. It the patch be microscopically examined in unstained sections, its structure will be found almost normal, though paler than the surrounding parts. The difference becomes M. • 5