INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. 160 This process is peculiarly modified when the foreign substance is firmly connected with the surrounding tissue; when it is in fact a necrosed fragment of the tissue itself, such as bone or kidney. In this case the first step is the separation of the living tissue from the dead. At the common boundary of the two an inflammatory zone is formed, which by the softening and resorption of the border-tissue leads to the loosening of dead from living. This zone is called the zone of demarcation: the loosened piece is a sequestrum. The sequestrum is by and by broken up and absorbed. If it lies on the surface it is thrown off as a slough : it leaves an ulcer behind it. A further modification ensues when the foreign substance simply lies on the surface of an organ. This occurs, for example, in the fibrinous effusions which form on the surface of the pleura. The deposit is in this case invaded by granulations and cicatricial tissue from one side only. If it lies between two separate organs or lobes it may be invaded from both sides. Langhans (Virch. Arch. vol. 49) was the first to describe minutely the processes by which the larger foreign bodies are absorbed. He pursued the subject experimentally by producing extravasations of blood in various animals. He thus discovered the giant-cells. Heidenhain (In. Diss. Breslau 1872) also found them in pieces of elder-pith, which he had inserted in the abdominal cavity of animals. Ziegler always met with them on the surface of his cover-glasses (Art. 108). By introducing bits of boiled bone into the abdomen of animals, he found that granulations always penetrated to the interior, and that large osteoclasts or resorption-cells (with one or many nuclei) were developed in contact with the bone. Senftleben (Virch. Arch. vol. 77) and Tillmanns (Virch. Arch. vol. 78) have gone further into the matter, and find that hardened aseptic animal tissues, such as bits of liver, kidney, or lung, are partly absorbed and partly adhere and heal in. Fresh tissues are absorbed faster than hardened tissues. Hegar (Klin. Vortrcige No. 109) and Kosenber- ger (Zangenbeck's Arch, xxv) have shown that absorption is most speedy in the case of tissues taken quite fresh from a living organ, and introduced into the body. The inflammatory reaction is very slight, and ends with the process of resorption. The resorption of bone has excited special attention. Kolliker (Die normale Resorption des Knochengewebes Leipzig 1873) and Wegner (Virch. Arch. vol. 56) have studied it minutely. They as well as others have made out this process to be something quite peculiar. Ziegler (Virch. Arch. vol. 73) has sought to do away with the attempted isolation of the process, and to put bone-resorption on a level with other resorptions. He thinks it possible to view all processes of resorption from the same stand-point. In every case the process is carried out with the purpose of removing from the organism a substance which is foreign and useless to it. Giant-cells are very usually formed in such circumstances, and it is possible that they take up the soluble parts of a tissue when it undergoes liquefaction. But resorption is not confined to their agency : it goes on where they are absent. It remains a remarkable fact that they should so frequently be found on the surface of solid objects. It is perhaps conceivable that the contact of the cell with a foreign body hinders in some way the process of cell-division, without affecting the subdivision of the nucleus. It has long been known that foreign bodies may 'heal into' a tissue. Details of the histological process will be found in the memoirs quoted above. Hallwachs has lately published some observations on the subject (Langen- becJc's Arch. xxiv).