116 FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV- cementing together of formative cells in a way which is character- istic of epithelium everywhere: the cells are in juxtaposition, the intercellular cementing substance is subordinate. In fibrous tissue on the other hand, the intercellular material derived from the cells is the chief constituent, and gives to the tissue its characteristic properties. 78. A morbid growth is the product of various factors. If a cell is to grow and multiply it must first be endowed with the faculties necessary to growth and reproduction. In other words it must have the power to take up from the blood a greater quantity of nutriment, to assimilate this, and apply it to the formation of new protoplasm. This property of the cell Virchow has called the nutritive and formative excitability (Irritabilitat): a term which implies that it is some stimulus or excitation from without which stirs up the cell to increased assimilation. We must therefore begin by enquiring of what kind the stimuli must be that can thus excite the cell to intenser activity. When, in embryonic development, a part or organ grows to an abnormal size and thus becomes so to speak gigantic, we may refer the phenomenon to several possible originating causes. The primary rudiment of the part may have been unusually large: the embryonic cells may have been endowed with an abnormal share of vital energy: they may have had specially favourable chances of nutrition: the resistances to proliferation may have been abnormally slight. It is not in general an easy task to decide which of these factors has in a given case determined the result. It is of course always possible that several factors have been working together. In the hypertrophies of later life (including the hyperplasias and regenerations), which are demonstrably conditioned from without, and so do not depend on pre-existing or embryonic factors, the question of aetiology is so far simplified. We must direct our attention to the other possible factors, namely increased vital energy, increased supply of nutriment, or diminished resistance to growth. It is however not to be forgotten—that the cause of the increased activity of the cell may be of the nature of a stimulus from without, which acting directly upon the cell excites it to more intense productiveness. We may assert then in general terms that, when the nutritive and formative activities of a cell are morbidly increased, the effect is due to augmentation of the physiological stimuli or diminution of the physiological resistances to growth, or to the direct influence of external stimuli. 79. Experience has shown that many tissue-cells, even when they seem, by their close connexion with then* neighbours, to be as it were firmly built into the tissue of which they form a part, still retain for a time the power of growth and subdivision, or in other words, of multiplication. This is especially the case with cells whose