286 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. settle in every spot indifferently. One part of the vascular system may be more favourable to it than another. Many bacteria remain and multiply within the vessels. Others escape from them, and when the surrounding tissue is suitable they may multiply in it, and set up changes resembling those produced at the point of first invasion (as in tuberculosis). Keferences: —Frisch, Exp. Studien iiber d. Verbreitung der Fiiulnissorganis- men in d. Oeweben Erlangen 1874; Koch, Traumatic Infective Diseases (Sycl. Soc.) London 1880; Perls, Lehrb. d. allg. Path. n. We should mention with regard to the spread of bacterial infection within the system, that the mode of invasion and the number of the fungi present are points of importance. If mice or guinea-pigs be inoculated beneath the skin with a few oedema-bacilli, the resulting affection is merely local. If the bacilli be numerous the animals die of a general disorder. The bacilli of anthrax and those of 'rabbit-septicaemia' may be injected in small quantity into the ear of a rabbit without causing its death. In the quantity ordinarily used in inoculative experiments they are always fatal. 200. The facts just given (Arts. 198, 199) regarding the spread of bacterial infection within the system are derived from observations on pyaemia, erysipelas, anthrax, and tuberculosis. The greater number of the diseases now referred by many to the action of bacteria (such as typhoid, relapsing fever, diphtheria, the exanthe- mata, croupous pneumonia, acute atrophy of the liver, cholera, etc.) are as yet too little known to enable us to give the corresponding details for them. We do not exactly know how the poison finds entrance, where it is multiplied, and in what manner it spreads. We only know that in these affections we find at certain times in the blood or tissues definite bacterial forms; and we believe that they are the exciting cause of the disease. If this belief be correct, we must admit that many kinds of bacteria have the power to penetrate into the blood and other juices without leaving any traces at the point of entrance. This supposition is confirmed by the fact that in anthrax we are often unable to detect the point of entrance of the bacilli. In the case of these diseases we must likewise assume, as in the case of the others, that the bacteria find access through the mucous membranes or lungs, or through open wounds if any exist. Once the bacteria have entered the body they multiply in the blood or in some tissue, spread through the system, and call forth the special changes characterising the several diseases. It is worthy of remark that each poison has a corre- sponding special group of tissues, in which its mischievous effects are invariably and especially apparent. The anatomical changes produced in these diseases as in the others are of the nature partly of degeneration and necrosis, partly of inflammation or haemorrhage. Proliferous changes in the tissues may also ensue as secondary to the former. 201. We are not yet in a position to formulate a theory of bacterial action that will apply to all cases. The researches of