RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. 82 We still seem far distant from an exact understanding of the origin and the ultimate fate of the fat which is formed in the body in physiological and pathological conditions. Hoppe-Seyler {Physiolog. Chemie) inclines to think that fat cannot be formed directly from albumen. He regards it as not unlikely that glycogen is first formed, and from the glycogen fat. Voit {Zeitsehr. f. Biol, v, and JVeues Rep. f. Pharmacie xx), on the other hand, thinks it quite certain that fat may be formed at once from albumen: compare Quain, Med. chir. Trans, vol. 33. According to Hermann, it is probable that certain products derived from the disintegration of albumen are normally utilised in regenerative processes. If the oxygen needed for regeneration is wanting, these products cannot be utilised and disintegrate still further : the expenditure of fresh material is thus increased. Binz and Schulz {Arch. f. exper. Path. vol. 14) hold that the cells, in their avidity for oxygen, take it up from the blood so long as the blood continues to part with it: when it ceases to do so the cells attack each other, and act as mutual reducing agents. The lateral 'chain' of the albumen-molecule (the chain which includes the nitrogen, on the theory of these chemists) is thus broken : the consequence is increased production of urea and of fat. They explain in this way the fatty changes observed in carbonic oxide poisoning. Bence Jones {Lectures on Pathology &e.) accounts for the proneness of the liver to become fatty in a somewhat similar way. See also Kanvier {Socie'te' anat. 1868). On the effect of phosphorus in inducing fatty change, see Voit and Bauer {Zeitsehr. f. Biol.vn), Lewin (Virch. Arch. vol. 21), Banvier {Soc. de Biologie 1866). 53. It is generally, though not always, easy to decide whether the fat present in the cells of an organ is a product of degeneration, or simply a deposit by way of storage. It is commonly stated that the fat of degenerative atrophy appears in the form of minute non- coalescent drops; while deposited fat occurs in large drops which readily run together. This is true of most tissues, but not of all. It is true, for example, of striated muscle, heart-muscle, non-striated muscle, neuroglia, &c. But when the renal epithelium becomes fatty, fat-globules of very considerable size are sometimes formed. In the liver again, the fat of degeneration may form either small or large drops (the latter in phosphorus-poisoning). On the other hand, what we may call storage-fat is, in the first instance, deposited in very minute globules: while the great globules of fatty deposits, when about to undergo re-absorption, break up again into minuter globules. But if the distinction is not always clear from the histological appearances, we may get more certain information by considering the site in which the fat is found. The appearance of fat-globules in tissue-cells normally free from fat, in circumstances which pre- clude the idea of a determination of fat to the tissue, is evidence that fat has been formed in loco from the cell-albumen, and there- fore that the cells have so far become disintegrated. Difficulty can thus arise only in the case of organs, such as the liver, which may normally be the seat of fatty deposit, and on the other hand are prone to fatty degeneration. In such organs it is often hard to say how much of the fat they contain has been produced in loco, how much has been brought to them from without. There is a further complication, for the fat of degeneration is sometimes carried away from its original seat, and deposited in other spots in the form of a fatty infiltration, or of storage-fat.