CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. NEUROMA. 211 enclosing the rounded section of the nucleus. Leiomyomata are invariably innocent; though they may cause danger by their tendency to bleed. They are liable to fatty change and to softening, which may lead to their disintegration or putrefaction, or to cystic excavations. Calcification is not infrequent. On the nature of so-called uterine ' fibroids' see Bristowe, Trans. Path. Soc. 1853; Oldham, Guy's Hosp. Rep. (2nd series) vols. 2, 8; Williams, Lan- cet 1,1880 ; Courty, Bis. of Uterus London 1882 (contains full references). Rhabdomyomata are very rare. They are hardly ever made up entirely of striated muscular fibres. In cellular sarcomatous tumours, chiefly of the kidney and testis, spindle- cells with more or less perfect striation are found associated with smooth muscle-fibres (myosarcomata). It is probable that such tumours (which are found only in children, and are of great size) are due to foetal deposits of muscular elements in the rudimental kidney and testis. Eeferences to the literature of rhabdomyoma are given by Huber and Bostrom {Arch. f. klin. Med. xxm). The name is due to Zenker : Virchow uses the term striocellular myoma. See also Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 55; Cohnheim, Virch. Arch. vol. 65; Marchand, Virch. Arch. vol. 73; Kocher and Langhans, Beut. Arch. f. Ghir. ix; Brodowski, Virch. Arch. vol. 67. i. Neuroma. 154. Neuroma is a term which in strictness should be applied only to tumours composed essentially of new-formed nerve-fibres. What we are accustomed to describe as neuroma is a growth occurring indeed in a nerve, but due to multiplication of the cells of its neurilemma and perineurium, not to the formation of new nerve fibres. It is generally a fusiform, oval, or cylindrical out- growth, whose axis may coincide with that of the nerve, or deviate laterally. Such tumours are very often multiple, and may affect either single nerve-territories or the entire system. Neuromatous nodes may also occur in the central nervous organs : they may be as large as a hen's egg, or (rarely) larger. If the nodular changes affect an entire nerve-territory, a network of coarse bands and nodes may be formed. This form has received the name of plexiform neuroma (Verneuil). Sometimes painful nodular growths form at the ends of divided nerves, as in amputation-stumps. They are spoken of as amputational neuromata. Almost all of these varieties are false neuromata: they are really fibromata and myxomata of the connective tissue of the nerve, unassociated with any multiplication of its nerve-fibres. The latter indeed are compressed and atrophied. This is true of the multiple varieties as well as of the amputational neuromata. The latter are in most cases due to inflammatory fibrous hyperplasia. It is asserted however that, in some neuromatous tumours, a true new-formation of nerve-tissue may occur. Amputational neuromata have furnished examples of this, as well as the tumours 14—2