112 FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. ray-ends. The wreath-form shrinks and its filaments become more ravelled, till at length it takes the coil-form (k). This becomes looser and more regular, and so finally the daughter-nucleus fashions itself a nuclear network (1), and passes into the resting state corresponding to the resting state of the mother-nucleus. In the stage of the star-form and the wreath-form of the daughter- nucleus, constriction of the cell-protoplasm commences {%), and ends with the completion of the coil-form (k). During the active stages of the subdividing process the nuclear juice or intermediate substance does not stain, though it stains in the resting state. During subdivision the nucleus is surrounded by a clear areola. The whole process takes place rapidly: it ends with the complete constriction and severance of the cell-protoplasm. The above mode of subdivision is called indirect or karyokinetic (icapvov, a kernel). According to a recent communication of Flemming's {Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat. xx), the intermediate substance of the nucleus contains (in stained prepara- tions, and presumably also in the living state) a delicate prolongation or con- tinuation of the nuclear network. The fine granulation observed in the inter- mediate substance with lower magnifying powers is really but an optical section of the meshes and filaments of the finer network. The nuclear mem- brane is merely the peripheral expansion of the nuclear network. Most important and valuable researches on the changes in cells and nuclei during subdivision have been made by Flemming {Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat. xvi—xx) and Strasburger (Zellbildung und Zelltheilung Jena 1880). The former has worked upon animal cells, the latter upon vegetable cells. Strasburger's description of the process of nucleus-division is not quite the same as Flemming's. He distinguishes a nuclear substance (chromatin), and a nuclear juice (achromatin). The capsule or nuclear membrane, as well as the granules, network, and nucleoli which lie in the interior, belong to the nuclear substance. When the nucleus sets about subdividing, its granulation becomes coarser, and the granules run together into convoluted filaments ; the nucleolar corpuscles and capside also take part in forming the filaments. These filaments have the power of stretching or streaming out into the cell- protoplasm. Then follows an elongation of the nucleus and, at the same time, of the filaments, so that the whole assumes a spindle-like shape, and two poles become distinguishable. The filaments shrink up towards the equator, and so form the nuclear disc, the entire nuclear substance going to make it. From this account it appears that the nuclear disc consists entirely of shortened rodlets or filaments. On both sides of this equatorial disc appear slender striae or filaments, the so-called spindle-filaments, and these together with the nuclear disc make up a secondary spindle-form of which the disc constitutes the equatorial zone. The spindle-filaments converge at the poles, or end freely. The material of which they are made is furnished by the cell-protoplasm. They are not taken up by the nuclear substance; indeed they are eliminated again as the subdivision proceeds. The daughter-nuclei originate in the nuclear disc. This parts asunder at the equator, and the two halves draw apart towards the poles. These halves become the daughter- nuclei : they are still connected by a few fine spindle-filaments. A row of granules now makes its appearance in the equatorial plane ; this is the cell- plate, and in this the new cell-wall is formed. Protoplasm appears on each side of it, in which the spindle-filaments are merged—and thus the process of division is completed. Strasburger's account of cell-division in the vegetable kingdom would seem to indicate that a certain difference exists between that and the animal kingdom. Flemming however has shown in a recent paper that the physical