339 TAENIA. CHAP. XWII | 243. Taenia solium inhabits the small intestine of man, and is acquired by eating ill-cooked pork. The corresponding measle is found in man and in the pig exclusively, or nearly so. In the intestine the worm is generally solitary, but cases in which two or more have coexisted are not very rare. In some instances from thirty to forty have been found in one person. The tape-worm gives rise to irritation of the mucous membrane, colic, and reflex nervous disturbances. The measle or cysticercus also occurs in man, as we have already indicated. It is found in the most various tissues, in the muscles, brain, eye, skin, &c, Its pathological significance depends on its seat; but it is usually slight. Even in the brain it does not always give rise to serious consequences. It excites a local in- flammation, which induces a fibrous thickening of the tissues round the cyst. It maintains its vitality for years. After the death of the scolex the cyst shrinks, and chalky masses are deposited within its cavity. The hooklets may be found long afterwards. Cystic infection depends necessarily on the introduction of eggs or pro- glottides into the stomach. Cysticercus racemosus is a measle of the brain. It is distinguished by the fact that it remains sterile and forms grape-like bunches of vesicles (Heller, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vol. in ; Zenker, Henle's Beitrcige Bonn 1882). Abnormalities of development are very often observed in individual tape- worms. 244. Taenia mediocanellata or saginata exceeds T. solium not only in length (it may reach 4 metres) but in width and thickness, as well as in the size of the separate proglottides (Fig. 110 p. 340). The head (Fig. Ill) has neither hooklets nor rostellum. Its vertex is smooth and furnished with four large sucking-discs, usually surrounded with a dark pigmented border. The eggs are like those of T. solium. The uterus (Fig. 112) has a large number of lateral diverticula, running close to each other and branching dichotomously, not like T. solium in dendritic ramifications. The genital opening lies below the middle of the lateral margin. The segments which break loose are generally empty of eggs. The corresponding cysticerci infest the muscles and organs of cattle. The development follows the same course as in the case of T. solium. Malformations of the worm are very frequently observed. Man acquires this tape-worm by eating uncooked beef. It is more widely diffused than T. solium. Taenia cucumerina or elliptica is 15 to 20 cm. long : its head has a circlet of hooks and a rostellum. It is often found in cats and clogs, rarely in man. Its cysticercus infests the dog-louse. Taenia nana is a small tape-worm 15 mm. in length : its head has four sucking-discs and a circlet of hooks. It has been found in Egypt. The frequent malformations to which Taenia is subject have led to the multiplication of species, or rather of specific names. Many of these refer to what are at best mere varieties. 22—2