CHAP. XVIII.] CELLULAR PROCESSES IN HYPERPLASIA ETC. Ill (Fig. 19 b): this is the 'coil-form' of the mother-nucleus. The nuclear membrane itself seems to break up and furnish filaments Fig. 19. Indikect cell-division (from FLEMMING: diagrammatic) a cell with resting nucleus h coil-form of mother-nucleus c wreath-form showing the central and peripheral loops, some of them broken through d star-form with free rays, showing the filaments in the act of splitting e fine-rayed star-form / nucleus with equatorial plate; division into polar segments g half-barrel or half-spindle form; the points in the middle are Stbasbdegeb's equatorial cell-plate h star-form of daughter-nucleus i wreath-form k coil-form I resting nucleus with network to the coil. From this stage onwards the nuclear figure alone takes up the staining reagent (hence the nuclear substance is sometimes spoken of as chromatin). The filaments then become thicker and the coil looser; its continuity is broken here and there, and at length it passes into the 'wreath-form' (c). In this the filaments are arranged in a loose series of central and peripheral loopings, the centre of the figure being unoccupied. From this is fashioned a ' star-form,' or aster (d), with free double rays, the peripheral loops of the wreath- form dividing at their ends. The double rays next divide longi- tudinally, and the whole star-form contracts. The filaments of the single-rayed star (e) thus formed next gather into an equatorial group, which soon divides into two equal polar segments (/). This division is effected by the development of a transparent equatorial plate {g) often studded with fine points (Strasburger's cell-plate). The two segments, which are the rudiments of the daughter-nuclei, move asunder towards opposite poles and form the ' half-barrel' or 'half-spindle' figure (Eberth's and Maizel's 'creel-form,' or 'basket- form '). The half-spindle form of the daughter-nucleus passes into a star-form (h), and this into a wreath-form (t) by the fusion of the