[SECT. VI. TUMOURS. 252 Dermoid cysts form a special class of teratomata. They are cysts whose inner surface has the same structure as the normal skin; but they occur in places where no skin is ever found normally. Their commonest seat is in the generative organs, especially in the ovary. More rarely they are found in other parts, such as the peritoneum, neck, and around the orbit. The smallest examples form little cysts which, as in the ovary, are distinguishable from their contents. The contents are usually greasy, semi-solid, yellowish-white, and interspersed with hairs. The wall is thicker, firmer, and whiter, than that of the Graafian follicles. Under the microscope it is seen to be composed of a corium and epidermis: it may even contain hair-follicles and sebaceous glands, or more rarely sweat-glands. Now and then an adipose layer, like the subcutaneous fat, is found beneath the corium. In rare cases, flat or irregular fragments of bone or cartilage and even teeth are found beneath the cutaneous layer. The teeth may also be found free within the cyst. Very rarely the cyst-wall contains muscular or nervous tissue. The larger dermoids, i. e. those reaching from the size of a walnut to that of the fist, are sharply marked off from the surrounding tissues by a fibrous capsule. They enclose large quantities of oily or greasy detritus, interspersed with fair or reddish hairs. Dermoids are found in young individuals as well as old. Some are found even in the new-born. They grow very slowly. Judging by the special character of their lining membrane, these formations would seem to be derived from the same rudimentary elements as the external skin. They are probably due to aberrant germinal cutaneous cells from the epiblast, which have somehow wandered to an abnormal site, and there have at a later stage begun to develope after their kind. References on the subject of teratomata and dermoid cysts :—Art. 13 ; Kohlrausch, Mullet's Arch. 1843 ; Lebert, Gaz. mdd. de P.aris 1852; Eemak, Deutsche Klinik 16, 1856; Heschl, Prager Viertelj. 1860; Lucre, Handb. d. Chir. v. Pitha u. Billroth n ; Haffter, Arch. d. Heilk. xvi, 1875 ; Panum, Virch. Arch. vol. 72 ; Klebs, Handb. d. path. Anat.; Danzel and Martini, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xvti ; Waldeyer, Arch. f. Gyrdik. i; Wilson Fox, Joum. of Anat. 1865 ; Gordon, Med. chir. Trans, xni; Paget, Surg. Path. Lect. 23. 179. Besides the teratomata there are other tumours more nearly allied in structure to the ordinary forms, which are either congenital or appear so soon after birth that their origin may with more or less certainty be referred to the embryonic period. The best-known examples are the congenital angiomata and pig- ment-spots (beauty-spots, moles) in the skin. The former have already been discussed (Arts. 148—150). Of the latter we have merely to say—that they appear as brown or black slightly raised patches in the skin, and are composed of tissue exactly resembling alveolar sarcoma (Fig. 54) covered over with epidermis.