CHAP. XVIII.] CELLULAR PROCESSES IN HYPERPLASIA ETC. 119 frequently to speak of unicellular micro-organisms, of bacteria and yeast-plants, and their mode of life. If we reflect on the conditions essential for the multiplication of such organisms, we note that the nature of the nutrient fluid is (next after the adjustment of the temperature) the factor of highest importance. In suitably-composed fluids the fungi develope much more luxu- riantly than in those that are ill-suited. But we are not thereby justified in assuming that the cell plays a merely passive part, that all it has to do is to take up the nutriment offered to it. The cell is on the contrary active, and its activity has a special influence on the liquid itself. It has the power to induce certain chemical changes in the liquid, to decompose certain substances contained in it, and to change their condition so as to adapt them for assimilation by itself. The cell does not merely take in and give out material: it acts ' catalytically' on its environment. This is proof at least that the cell possesses a high degree of spontaneity— that it has the power of making more available for its own sustenance the various forms of nutriment that come in its way. It is also of great interest to remark that the cell is ultimately limited in its formative activity by its own products. When the amount of nutriment present is abundant, the activity of the cell comes to an end, not through the exhaustion of the supply, but through its contamination with certain products of cell-metabolism. Many of the substances engendered in fermenting liquids by the action of fungi tend to check the growth and multiplication of the fungi themselves: when present in quantity they may put a stop to multiplication altogether. The alcoholic fermentation, and the multiplication of the yeast-plant which produces it, come to an end when a certain proportion of alcohol has been generated in the fermenting liquid. In septic putrefaction the bacteria generate compounds, such as carbolic acid, which are destructive to them- selves. If we may apply these facts of fungus-physiology to the cell-physiology of higher organisms, we find that they illustrate first of all this principle—that the quantity and quality of the nutritive material at the disposal of the cell have a profound influence upon its behaviour. And secondly, this other,—that the cell has nevertheless an intrinsic power of utilising this material, and of appropriating what is suitable to itself out of various combinations. Lastly, the limits imposed on the multiplication of fungi by the products of their own activity may help us to under- stand how the formative activity of the cells of complex organisms may be temporarily checked. We cannot indeed regard the inter- cellular substance of the connective tissues as equivalent in significance to the products of the chemical changes induced by the bacteria. Yet the comparison may at least enable us to conceive how cell-growth may tend to limit and to check itself, without the interposition of extrinsic resistances. In the con- nective tissues the formation of the intercellular substance is the