26 [SECT. L MALFORMATIONS. A still rarer product of completely arrested development is the so-called lithopaedium. The foetus dries up into a kind of mummy, while its superficial parts and the tissues inclosing it become calcified. This effect is oftenest found when the situation of the ovum is abnormal. The second result of a general arrest of growth is dwarfing of the entire body (Mikrosomia or Nanosomia). Sometimes in dwarfs the proportion between the several parts is abnormal; for example, the head is often inordinately large. b. Arrested development of parts of the body. 7. Malformations depending on imperfect closure of the cerebro- spinal cavity. (1) Acrania (Hemicephalus, Cranioschisis) is a frequent malformation: it consists in an entire absence of the bones and integuments forming the vault of the skull. In most cases the brain is also lacking (Anencephalia), and the base of the skull is covered with a vascular mass of connective tissue, enclosing a variable number of cyst-like structures. More rarely there is found a pocket-like fold of dura mater, containing some brain-detritus. The forehead being imperfectly formed the eyes jDroject strongly, and give these monsters a toadlike appearance. The parietal bones are entirely absent. The tabular portions of the occipitals, tempo- rals, and frontals, may be wanting in whole or in part. If the supra-occipital be also wanting, while the upper cervical vertebrae remain unclosed, the monstrosity is spoken of as Granio-rachi- schisis. In such cases the upper part of the spinal cord is also wanting or rudimentary. The production of Acrania is referred by G. St. Hilaire, Foerster, and Panum to the collection of fluid in the cerebral vesicles prior to the fourth month of gestation (Hydrocephalus). Dareste and Perls dispute this view, on the ground that in Acrania the base of the skull is generally convex toward the brain, and cannot have been subjected to pressure tending outwards such as hydrocephalus would produce. They therefore regard the cause of Acrania to be some pressure exerted on the cranium from without. Perls maintains that this external pressure may be exerted by the head-fold of the amnion: this may he thinks be stretched too tightly over the cranial flexure, and so arrest the proper development of the cranial vault. Quite recently Lebedeff has offered a new explanation of Anencephalia and Acrania. He thinks these are due to the production of an abnormally sharp cranial flexure in the embryo. This occurs when the cephalic extremity grows at an unusual rate in the longitudinal direction, or when the head-fold of the amnion is retarded in its development. In consequence of the sharp flexure the closure of the medullary plate to form the medullary