INTRODUCTION. 7 More common than inheritance of a definite disease is in- heritance of a morbid predisposition. By this is to be understood a certain debility of an organ or a tissue, not easy to define more exactly. This debility has arisen in the parents in consequence of some primary or inherited disease in them. In such cases an external cause is required to bring about the development of actual disease, and it is by no means necessary that the disease when it appears should be of exactly the parental type. Inherited predisposition is oftenest observed in connexion with nervous disease, and just in this region is best exemplified the fact that the type of disorder need not be the same in the child as in the parent. It is probable that the external or determining causes have an influence in this modification of type. Distinct from inherited disorders are those which the foetus acquires within the maternal organism after conception. It is true that the foetus is protected by the sheltering womb against manifold injuries to which in later life it becomes exposed. But it must not be forgotten that in this season of development, and especially in its earlier stages, its constitution is far frailer than in the mature condition. Nor must we leave out of account that its intimate relations with the maternal organism are in themselves a source of danger. Local changes in the uterus or in the foetal membi'anes, and disorders of the mother generally, must obviously have an influence on the development and life of the foetus. Experience proves indeed that the child in lotero is subject to many and various diseases, and often enough perishes unborn. Certain diseases of the mother, such as small-pox, are directly transmissible to the foetus. Others inevitably involve its death. As above said, local changes in the uterus and in the foetal membranes may also produce disturbances in the growing organism. To the investigator these do not show themselves primarily as disturbances of function: in the most favourable case he may perhaps be able to distinguish an abnormality in the movement of the heart or the action of a muscle. All that he finds on examination is the anatomical effect of the disturbance. The foetus is an organism whose function is to grow. If any one part of the developing organism meet with an injury, or if by any means a local disorder anywhere arise, the consequence is a local disturbance of the process of growth. If in other respects the foetus developes normally and ultimately comes to be born, we shall find a corresponding abnormality in the conformation of the affected part. This may consist either in a defect, an overgrowth, an imperfect closure, or a misformation. When the form or structure of a member deviates in this way from the normal, we describe it as a congenital malformation. It is the effect of a morbid process in the period of intra-uterine development, and may concern the whole or a part of the organism or of any one of its organs. Inasmuch as it is the effect of intra-