PARASITES. 314 [SECT. VII. If the composition of the nutrient substratum be gradually altered, the fungi may be got to grow on substances which they do not usually affect. Thus Eurotium and Penicillium may be transplanted from bread to solution of peptone, and can ultimately be made to grow on the surface of blood (Grawitz). The limits of temperature, within which the mould-fungi can flourish, vary with the different forms. Some species of Aspergillus (A. flavescens, fumigatus, nigrescens) and some of Mucor grow very well at temperatures between 35° and 40° C ; while A. glaucus and Penicillium only thrive below 34° C. The spores bear high degrees of heat: to kill them outright they must be kept at a temperature of 110° C to 115° C for an hour. Eeferences:—Grohe, Berl. klin. Woch. 1, 1871; Loffler, Mitth. a. d. k. Gesundh. Berlin 1881; Grawitz, Virch. Arch. vol. 81; Lichtheim, Berl. klin. Woch. 9, 1882; Leber, Grafe's Arch, xxv, and Berl. klin. Woch. 19, 1882; Duclaux, Ferments et Maladies Paris 1882; Koch, Berl. klin. Woch. 52, 1881; Kaufmann, Lyon me'dicale 1882. 220. The action of the mould-fungi on the nutrient soil on which they grow is slow, and limited in extent. Thus the mouldy covering which forms on preserved fruit extends only to a slight depth below the surface. Mouldy articles of food acquire a peculiar unpleasant 'musty' taste. If the mycelium of a fungus gains access to an apple, for instance, the apple becomes rotten; i. e. a process of change and decay sets in, accompanied by purely chemical decompositions. Timber in which mould-fungi develope becomes soft and brittle and breaks down into a dry ' mouldering' dust. Fungi which are specifically distinct may give rise to similar or identical decompositions in articles of food, timber, &c. The mycelium of Merulius lacrimans (dry-rot) destroys the wood-work of houses. Moulds may likewise attack living plants, i. e. they may thrust their mycelia into living vegetable tissue. The changes they occasion are various. Sometimes they seem to exert no disturbing influence on the normal development of the tissue. In others they induce abnormal growths. The so-called ' witches' brooms' of the silver fir are produced by the settlement in the tree of the Aecidium elatinum. Often the cell-contents become altered: thus starch and cellulose may be converted into turpentine. Hartig thinks the moulds may also act as organised ferments. Not infrequently the fungi destroy altogether the plants they attack. Thus the O'idium Tuckeri (vine-mildew) seizes on the green parts of the vine, and destroys it. If the spores of Peronospora infestans reach the tubers of the potato-plant, they drive their germinal hyphae into then' substance, form a mycelium there, and so ruin the potato (De Bary) : this constitutes the ' potato-disease.' The ' leaf-rust' which destroys fruit-trees is like- wise due to a fungus (Boestelia cancellala).