INTRODUCTION. 11 altogether leave out of account the behaviour of the intercellular substances. It is needful to note this, for the nature and condition of these substances have certainly some influence on the life of the cells themselves. In each of these processes, retrogressive, constructive, and meta- plastic, the condition of the circulatory system is of special im- portance. The regular and normal fulfilment of the function of circulation is essential to the maintenance of a tissue in its normal state. Disturbances of the circulation quickly bring about dis- turbances of function and changes in the tissues. Disturbances of the circulation play a distinct and highly important part in the process known as Inflammation. Unless we desire to limit this term to a single stage of the entire process, we may indeed say that the characteristic phenomena of Inflammation are those con- nected with the circulatory mechanism. Pathological Anatomy has not fulfilled all its task when it has investigated the morphology of morbid change in cells and tissues. It must go on to determine the genesis, and the causa- tion of morbid processes. If we would obtain a satisfactory insight into the significance of the special changes that come before us, we must make it a first principle to compare these changes with each other, and with the known facts of physiology bearing on tissue-formation and degeneration. As our present ideas of the origin of specific forms of life only became possible after we had subjected animals to comparative examination and acquired an exact knowledge of their embryology, so also must we study disease comparatively and investigate with exactness the processes of histogenesis, if we are to attain a satisfactory understanding of morbid phenomena. The appropriate objects for investigation will in the first instance con- sist of the morbidly altered tissues taken from the human subject: but there will remain many questions for whose complete answer we must needs have recourse to experiments upon animals. The profound importance of these we may gather from the fact—that our knowledge of such diseases as can be artificially produced in animals is far more complete and thorough, than in the cases where the artificial methods have as yet failed us. A knowledge of the aetiology of the several forms of disease is of the very highest import. It is beyond dispute that a perfect understanding of the causes of disease and their mode of action is the end and goal of all research in morbid anatomy; and it is the clear duty of pathologists to devote their energies to its attainment. If we could but define a disease, not according to its symptoms or its morbid anatomy, but strictly by referring it to its causes, we should gain far more than a clear comprehension of the affection; we should have done much to settle the therapeutic treatment. It has long been known that certain diseases arise in conse- quence of the settlement of certain plants and animals in the