INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. 152 mente Wiirzburg 1875, and Untersuch. iib. path. Bindegewebs- und Gefdssneu- bildung "Wiirzburg 1876). He made a small disc-shaped chamber by fastening together two thin cover-glasses a slight distance apart. This was inserted under the skin of a dog and left for a certain length of time. When it was removed its contents could be examined microscopically. The thin interspace was found to be filled with cells, which either perished and broke up or under- went further development. In a single layer of cells obtained in this way, there were always some undergoing progressive change, and they could be observed with great ease. Thus not merely at the borders, but over the whole field, cells were found in all stages of development from the lymphoid to the epithelioid and giant-cell type. The actual formation of tissue from them could be followed. When large cells are formed, a certain number of the round-cells in their neighbourhood disappear. It is as if their protoplasm were appropriated by the larger growing cell. This is less surprising, as we know that migratory cells frequently pick up molecular matters (such as cinnabar) which they find in their way. The only difference is that the pro- toplasm is assimilated and utilised for growth ; the cinnabar of course is not. The various stages of nucleus-division cannot as yet be described in detail: only some of them have been observed. So far as is known, they correspond with the scheme of Arts. 74 and 75. Now and then a radial arrangement of the granules of the protoplasm is observed near the poles of the nucleus. Ziegler's results have been called in question by various observers (Ewetzky, Weiss, Bottcher, Baumgarten, and others). These observers maintain that the migrated cells have no power of further development, and attribute the formation of new tissue to the multiplication of the fixed tissue- cells, especially in the case of the epithelia. Their experimental methods have been so different from Ziegler's, and their criticisms rest so much more on their own special theories of inflammation than on the facts adduced, that it is difficult to find a common basis for the discussion of them. Those who have used similar methods have in the main arrived at similar results. Senftleben (Virch. Arch. vols. 72 and 77) introduced fragments of dead lung or artery-wall into the peritoneal cavity of an animal. Tillmanns (Virch. Arch. vol. 78) used bits of hardened organs with artificial cavities in them. Hamilton (Sponge-grafting, Edin. Med. Joum. 1881) introduced bits of sponge. All of these have found that the cells which migrate into the receptacles thus arti- ficially provided undergo further development. Heidenhain had already discovered large cells in round bits of elder-pith? which he had inserted into the abdominal cavity of guinea-pigs (Ueber d. Verfettung fremder Korper in der Bauchhohle Breslau 1872). Schede (Arch. f. hhn. Chir. xv), Aufrecht (Virch. Arch. vol. 44), Bizzozero (Annali universi di medicina 1868), and others had already observed facts which were in favour of the notion that development does take place in migrated cells. 109. The newly-formed fibroblasts are rounded cells (Fig. 25 b). They soon change their form however by sending out processes and becoming elongated. In this way cells are produced which are club-shaped, spindle-shaped, or branched (6) ; and these cohere and coalesce in various ways. Meantime the larger formative cells are multiplied till at length they outnumber the small round-cells. Here and there they become tightly packed together. This is especially noticed in the deeper layers of the granulation-tissue. When their number has reached a certain point, fibrous tissue begins to be produced by the formation of a fibrillated intercellular substance. This latter arises in part directly from the cell-proto- plasm, and in part from a homogeneous ground-substance derived from the fibroblasts. In the first case, from the ends and lateral