TERATOMA. CHAP. XXVIII.] AETIOLOGY OF TUMOURS. 251 They at least make it highly probable for certain classes of tumours. But they do not suffice to prove its applicability to all. The view that tumours arise in consequence of injury, especially of frequently repeated irritation, is very widely accepted (Virchow, Die krank- haften Gesckwiilste; Kronlein, Lang. Arch. f. klin. Chi?: xxi; Kocher, Art. Krankheiten des Hodens, Ilandb. d. spec. Chir. v. Pitha u. Billroth; Bogehold, Virch. Arch. vol. 88). Cohnheim has justly objected to this view—that the number of cases of tumours in which antecedent injury has been demonstrated Joes not reach more than 14 per cent, of the whole number, and is by some given as 7 per cent (Boll, Das Pri.ncip des Wachsthums Berlin 1876; S. Wolff, Zur Entstehung von Geschviilsten nach traum. Einwirk. In. Diss. Berlin 1874; Von Winiwarter, Beitriige z. Statistik d. Carcinome Stuttgart 1878). From this we may infer that an injury may perhaps give rise to a tumour; but that neither injury nor inflammation is at all a necessary antecedent. 178. We are acquainted with a considerable number of forms of congenital tumour, whose origin can be referred with more or less certainty to the embryonic period. Of these it is however to be remarked—that their structure and composition are only in part analogous to those of the post-embryonic growths hitherto discussed. Many of them possess a structure entirely peculiar to themselves, so that they cannot be classed with any of the preceding tumours. They are therefore regarded by all authorities as special and peculiar formations, and are distinguished as teratomata. Teratomata or teratoid tumours (Art. 13) are congenital growths, which are remarkable for the heterogeneity of their constituent elements. They may be large even at birth, or they may grow from small beginnings to a large size after birth. They may contain fibrous tissue, cartilage, bone, muscle, skin, hair, nerves, gland-tissue, and simple cellular or embryonic tissue. At times they may have the look of complex histioid tumours; but the combinations they present are usually much more various and heterogeneous than in any ordinary histioid growth. We even meet in them with structures which recall the appearance of some normal organ—the differences lying chiefly in the rudimentary nature of the outward shape or configuration, and the abnormal site. Sometimes the various tissues are grouped into something like orderly disposition, giving one the impression of a more or less organised foetus. Teratomata, when externally visible, are usually placed at parts of the trunk corresponding to those at which double monstrosities cohere. These are chiefly—the lower end of the spine, the head, and the neck. Internal teratomata are usually connected with the genital apparatus. Such teratomata are some of them true double monstrosities. One foetus has been surrounded and enclosed by another, and so has become stunted and ill-developed (Art. 13). The remainder arc due to some misdevelopment of the tissues within a single foetus.