154 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. length becomes paler and whiter than its surroundings. A depres- sion frequently results from the shrinking of the cicatricial tissue. The smaller the wound the smaller and less marked is the scar. This form of healing, in which the wound is closed by means of its own granulations, is called healing by second intention. Healing by first intention occurs when two wounded surfaces come into contact and grow together without the intervention of visible granulations. In principle the process is the same as in the first case. An inflammatory infiltration is produced, and in this new vessels and new fibrous tissue are developed. The difference is merely quantitative. In skin-wounds, for example, the exudation and granulations are so insignificant in amount that they are imperceptible; they are very quickly bridged and covered over by regenerative multiplication of the epidermal cells. The chronic inflammatory processes leading to fibrous hyper- plasia follow in general the same course as when new tissue is being formed. In different organs however there are special peculiarities to be noted. They will be treated of in considering the special pathology of the several organs. 111. While cicatricial tissue is forming in an organ by means of granulations, it usually happens that the fixed tissue-cells also begin to multiply by subdivision. The extent to which this multi- plication goes on, and the share it contributes to the final result, are by no means constant. But they are by no means negligible, especially in long-continued inflammations. Hence the different im- portance assigned to such cell-multiplication by different observers. Some ascribe all formation of new tissue to it, denying the existence of the inflammatory process above described. Others allow it small significance, or ignore it altogether. The truth is probably this— that accompanying the inflammatory constructive process, there is always some regenerative proliferation in the tissue, and that this is in inverse relation to the severity of the inflammation. Epithe- lium is a tissue which cannot be reproduced by means of granula- tions; it can be reproduced only by regenerative proliferation. Other specially differentiated tissues, such as muscles, nerves, bones, vessels, are in the same case. These, if replaced at all, must be replaced by regeneration starting in pre-existing homologous tissues. Cicatricial tissue pure and simple is therefore devoid of all such specialised structures, with the one exception of vessels. If we were to define granulation-tissue according to its apparent purpose we might say—that it is a structure fashioned out of the cellular material gathered by the blood from the system in general, and utilised to make good a defect which the fixed tissue-cells of the injured region are unable to repair. This final purpose, unfortunately for teleology, tinly appears in the process by which wounds are repaired. It is not apparent in the fibrous hyperplasias of glandular organs, or in the formation of adhesions and false membranes; but the mechanism is the same.