CHAP. XIX.] HYPERPLASIA AND REGENERATION IN TISSUES. 127 observed in tadpoles' tails, Travers in the foot-web of the frog {On Inflam- mation &c). It is the only mode which certaiidy occurs in pathological tori nations. For this reason we have not given the customary enumeration of the primary, secondary, and tertiary modes formulated by Billroth (Untersuch. ii. d. Entwick. d. Blutgef. Berlin 1856) and Bindfleisch {Patho- logical Histology vol. I, p. 89). In the primary mode the embryonic cells become directly transformed into red blood-cells on one hand, and into the parietal cells of a vessel on the other. The embryonic cells in fact arrange themselves into cords : the axial ones become blood-cells, the peripheral ones cohere as elements of the containing vessel-wall. This process takes place in the mesoblast of the embryo, but not in pathological formations (Klein, Wiener Sitzungsbenchte 1871, Q. Journ. M. Sc. 1872 ; Balfour, Comp. Embryo- logy vol. ii). In the secondary mode (Billroth, 0. Weber, Bindfleisch) spindle- shaped cells cohere to form cylinders in such wise as to enclose a continuous canal. This notion seems to rest on a mistake, occasioned by the fact that in granulation-tissue, for example, the vascular off-shoots are very quickly surrounded and wrapped about with spindle-shaped formative cells : and this gives the off-shoots the appearance of strings of cells. The so-called tertiary mode is that given in the text. Compare the description by Baget {Surgical Path. Lect. 10). 87. Proliferation in cartilage may be either a regenerative or a hyperplastic process. The reproduction of cartilage-cells at the margin of a breach is effected by the cells first enlarging, and then undergoing subdivision of nucleus and protoplasm. Nuclear figures are observed. In this process many of the cells attain to great dimensions and may contain as many as twelve nuclei apiece (Ewetzky). The cells are rounded or branched, stellate or spinous. The capsular membranes disappear as the cells enlarge and multiply. Later on the cells or cell-groups become surrounded by the charac- teristic hyaline matrix-substance. In hyperplastic proliferation the process is similar. The cells multiply and stretch the capsules, or cause them to give way and disappear: in like manner the intercellular matrix is distended or destroyed. Subsequently the new-formed cells generate for them- selves fresh capsules and matrix-substance. When a breach in cartilage is not repaired by multiplication of the cartilage-cells, fibrous tissue, developed from fibroblasts, usually fills up the gap. In other cases bony tissue is developed as well. Cartilage may arise not only from cartilage, but from other allied tissues, such as growing periosteum in particular, perichon- drium, marrow, bone, fibrous tissue, and epithelium. The meta- morphosis is sometimes effected directly, as from perichondrium or marrow, sometimes through the intermediate stage of granulation. In the latter case an indifferent tissue is first formed, which is rich in single cells: these then become transformed into hyaline matrix- substance and cartilage-cells. Cartilaginous new growths are most commonly found in connexion with the skeletal structures : in other regions they are rare. Memoirs on the formation and proliferation of cartilage have been published by Virchow {Onkologie i), Goodsir {Anat. and Path. Obs. 1845), Bedfern r