316 [SECT. VII. PARASITES. On mycoses (or fungus-affections) of the lungs see Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 9; Kuchenmeister, Die in dem und an dem Korper des Menschen vorkom- menden Parasiten; Friedreich, Virch. Arch. vol. 10; Pagenstecher, Virch. Arch. vol. 11; Cohnheim, Virch. Arch. vol. 33; Furbringer, Virch. Arch. vol. 66; Lichtheim, Berl. klin. Woch. 9, 1882; Bollinger, Zur Aetiol. d. Infect. Munich 1881; Kitt, Deutsche Zeitsch.f. Thiermed. VXI. The Aspergillus which is found in the lungs is according to Lichtheim the A. fumigatus. It was formerly believed that A. glaucus occurred within the body. This cannot be the case however, for the body-temperature is too high. A. glaucus forms rounded conidia-spores 12—13 micromm. in diameter, with a thick warty yellowish envelope. Those of A. fumigatus are only 3—4 micromm. across, and are smooth. Invasions of the Aspergillus are very often observed in birds. In the external meatus and middle ear the following are found—Aspergillus fumigatus, nigricans, flavescens, and Trichothecium roseum. They excite in- 'flamniation. The instillation of oil favours their development (Bezold, Ueber Otomycosis, Zur Aetiol. d. Infect. Munich 1881). Aspergillus may grow on the injured surface of the cornea and lead to suppurative inflammation. Leber (Grafe's Arch, xxv) has cultivated it on the cornea and in the anterior chamber of rabbits. Aspergillus also occurs in the pelvis of the kidney. 222. Filamentous fungi are the exciting causes of certain skin-diseases. In Favus, Tinea tonsurans, Tinea versicolor, Tinea sycosis, and Onychomycosis deposits of hyphae and conidia are found in the epithelial layers of the skin. In Favus, for example, the root and root-sheath of the affected hair (Fig. 84 a b) are beset with jointed filaments and spores. The other parts of the hair and skin are also interpenetrated with filaments and spores, and these tend to separate the constituent epidermoid cells by loosening their cementing substance. Inflam- mation is set up and scales and crusts are formed on the surface. Grawitz asserts that the hyphae and conidia, which are met with in the above-named mycoses of the skin, all belong to the same species of fungus, Avhich is identical with the Oidium lactis; the differences observed in the various diseases being simply due to differences in the nutrient substratum. Most authors however maintain that they belong to different species. The fungus of Favus is called Achorion Schdnleinii, that of Tinea tonsurans (or ringworm) is Trichophyton tonsurans, and that of Tinea or Pityriasis versicolor is Microsporon furfur. Most of the parasitic filamentous fungi infesting man seldom penetrate beyond the superficial layers of the tissues affected. They can only do so under special and uncommon conditions, as in deep wounds. Some few, like Aspergillus fumigatus and flavescens, can germinate and throw out filaments into the blood, if they succeed in entering the vessels; but they do not multiply. As they grow they excite inflammation and necrotic changes. Only two fungi referred to this class are known to multiply in the substance of the tissues, and they cause wide-spread and highty destructive inflammations. One of these is the so-called Actinomyces or ' ray- fungus' which causes the disease known as Actinomycosis (Arts.