CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. TUBERCLE. 169 cases granulation-tissue and fibrous tissue may develope between and around the aggregated tubercles. The process may thus begin with an eruption of tubercles, or with a more diffused inflammatory infiltration. These propositions practically include all that is important concerning the diffusion of tubercle in the tissues. It is not usually difficult to recognise tubercles in the substance of tubercu- lous granulation-tissue. The giant-cells and epithelioid cells seen in micro- scopical sections do not take colour nearly so well as the small round-cells which form the main component of the tissue. Three zones are usually distinguishable in a tubercle. In the centre lies the core of aggregated giant- cells of a dark or dull colour. Then comes the zone of faintly-stained epithelioid cells, and finally at the periphery the zone of deeply-stained round-cells ; these last are usually deeper in tint than the granulation-cells around them. When the middle of the tubercle has already become caseous, giant-cells are generally to be made out here and there over it. It is not always correct to say that tuberculous patches take their rise from single nodules. The formation of nodules may be preceded by a diffused infiltration, or even the development of granulation-tissue; the nodules only making their appearance as secondary growths. 122. The eruption of fresh tubercles in the neighbourhood of an existing tuberculous focus is usually followed sooner or later by the appearance of nodules in the lymphatic system. The nearest lymphatics are of course the first to be affected: they receive their lymph from the region primarily affected. Thus in tuberculous ulceration of the mucous and submucous coats of the intestine, first the lymphatics of the muscular coats (Fig. 31 c d) are infected, and then those of the serous coat. In this way strings of tubercles may be formed along the course of the vessels. From the nearer lymphatics the eruption may pass in succession to others, and at length approach the thoracic duct. More fre- quently the affection is not uniformly diffused in this way, but attacks certain parts of the lymphatic system rather than others, especially those through which the lymph is as it were filtered, namely the lymphatic glands. It is in the glands that the tuberculous eruption is most intense. Generally the process makes a kind of halt at these gland-stations : but it sooner or later finds opportunity to spread onwards, and at length reaches the main trunks and the thoracic duct itself. Wherever the tuberculous process has become established, it is distinguished by the development of tubercles, and this in the lymphatic vessels as well as the glands (Fig. 32). A more or less intense inflammation of the surrounding tissue is always associated with the tubercular eruption : it is manifested by hyperaemia with infiltration and swelling. If the process last for a certain time, it not infrequently happens that young connective tissue is developed at the seat of the eruption. The usual fate of the tuberculous growth is caseous necrosis and disintegration. It rarely issues in the formation of fibrous tissue, and still more rarely in complete resorption of the tubercle.