CHAP. III.] DOUBLE MONSTROSITIES AND MALFORMATIONS. 35 (2) Acardiacus. This is a monster devoid of a heart; it is always very imperfectly developed. The rudimentary foetus is either free, and connected with the well-developed one only through the placenta; or it is adherent to the well-developed one and blended with it to a greater or less extent (cf. Teratoma). In the first case the acardiac twin is in fact an allantoid or placental parasite: its umbilical vessels are connected with those of its host, and its blood is kept in circulation by the host's heart. According to Claudius, Foerster, Ahlfeld and others, the monstrosity results from the later development of the allantois in one foetus than in the other. The retarded allantois is prevented from reach- ing the chorion, and is compelled to insert itself into the expansion of the other allantois. The course of the circulation in the parasite being inverted, its heart is either wanting or rudimentary. The lungs, trachea, pericardium, diaphragm, sternum, vertebral bodies, and ribs, are absent or undeveloped; as are also the liver and the upper limbs. The only organs which are fairly developed are, at most, those of the abdomen and pelvis. We frequently find in such cases an over-development of the subcutaneous connective tissue, giving rise to shapeless unorganised masses or tumours. The different varieties of acardiac monsters are (a) Acardiacus amorphus. This form is rare, and consists of a shapeless lump covered over with skin and containing mere rudiments of organs. (b) A. acormus. Head developed; thorax and abdomen absent or rudimentary. Very rare. (c) A. acephalus. Head absent; thorax rudimentary; pelvis and attached members developed. This is the commonest variety. (d) A. anceps. Trunk well developed; head and limbs rudi- mentary ; heart also rudimentary. Rare. (3) Thoracopagus parasiticus. Should one of the foetuses of a thoracopagous monster be imperfectly developed, it will hang from the other in the form of a mere stunted appendage. The parasite is connected with the autosite by the ensiforrn cartilage, and the abdominal wall as far as the umbilicus: it is therefore often spoken of as Epigastrius. It is seldom completely developed, i. e. provided with all its members. In the majority of the cases on record, the parasite has been an Acardiacus acephalus or acormus, and its vascular system a mere outlying region or extension of the host's. This monstrosity is very rare. (4) Epignathus. This is an amorphous acardiac monster connected with the mouth-cavity of the well-developed twin-foetus. From this cavity protrudes a shapeless skin-covered mass, made up of cartilage, connective tissue, gland-tissue, brain-substance, teeth, bones, intestinal elements, muscles, skin, and foetal down. In very rare instances the epignathus is attached to some other region, such as the orbit. a 9