172 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. 124. Tubercle may be disseminated in other ways, and indepen- dently of the lymphatics and blood-vessels. Consider, for example, the mode in which it spreads on the surface of mucous membranes. It is easy to verify that solitary nodules, as well as tuberculous patches and ulcers of larger size developed in mucous membrane, do not long remain isolated, but soon give rise to new foci. These are situated not merely in the immediate neighbourhood of the first, but often at a considerable distance from them. They may even appear unconnected with the first lesions; while it is certain that they are not at least in every case propagated through the lymphatics. In pulmonary tuberculosis, for instance, which has already passed into the ulcerative stage, it is not at all uncommon for the mucous membrane of the air-tubes to become affected. This is especially apt to occur in the larynx, epiglottis, and at times in the pharynx: and the affection often extends to the lower segments of the large and small intestines. When the kidneys become tuberculous, and contain caseous ulcerations, the ureters, bladder, seminal vesicles, and prostate may become consecutively diseased. In other cases the process commences in the latter organs and extends upwards. From such instances it becomes plain that the infective virus may actually be transported along the surface of the mucous membrane. It attacks the spots at which it is allowed to linger, and penetrates the mucous tissue. It there sets up the specific inflammation manifested by the development of nodules, which disintegrate and produce ulcerations. Tubercle is in like manner disseminated on the surface of the serous membranes lining the great body-cavities. In their case it is obvious that the transport of the virus is favoured by the normal movements and displacements of the contained organs. It must be remembered, in connexion witb tbis question, tbat all mucous membranes are not equally susceptible with regard to the tuberculous virus. The mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus is far less susceptible than that of the larynx and trachea. The stomach, duodenum, and bile-ducts, as also the urethra, are very rarely attacked. This is explicable now that we know that the virus is a special micro-organism (Art. 127): for the secretions of the stomach, duodenum, and common bile-duct are prejudicial to the development of bacteria. The oesophagus and urethra have this advantage— that they are continually being swept clean, as it were. In the small and in the large intestine, where the process of absorption goes on most actively, the ingesta and with them any tuberculous sputa which may happen to have been swallowed, may lie a long time in contact with the mucous membrane. In the neighbourhood of the larynx, the bronchial secretion continually accumulates before it is coughed out, and the virus has thus abundant opportunity of attacking its mucous membrane. The bladder, in like manner, contains the accumulating secretion of the kidneys, while the urethra is only 'flushed' with it from time to time. In addition to these factors, however, we must not leave out of account the possibility of special predisposition in the various structures and tissues. 125. The clinical significance of tubercle. The processes just described (Arts. 118—124) are comprehended under the term