CHAP. XIX.] HYPERPLASIA AND REGENERATION IN TISSUES. 129 normale Resorption des Knochengewebes Leipzig 1873), Steudener (Beitriige zur Lehre von der Knochenentwickelung Halle 1875), Strelzoff (Die Histo- genese der Enochen Zurich 1873), Maas (Ueber Wachsthum und Regeneration der Rohrenhiochen, Zangenbeck's Arch, xx), Ziegler (Virch. Arch. vol. 73), Wolff ([Inters, iib. d. Entwick. d. Enoch. Leipzig 1875), Busch (Deut. Zeitschr. f. Chir. vol. 8), Kassowitz (Die Ossification Vienna 1881), Macewen (Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xxxii). 89. In muscular fibre, striated and non-striated, regeneration and hyperplasia start primarily from the existing muscle-cells. Non-striated muscular fibres may possibly be developed from connective-tissue cells also. New muscular cells are produced by ordinary nucleus- and cell-division. In striated muscle, the so- called muscle-corpuscles grow into large cells, losing meanwhile then- contractile substance, and multiplying their nuclei. They become elongated and spindle-shaped, and then become converted into striated fibres. It is highly probable that no other cells have the power of generating striated muscle-cells, but on this point opinions differ. Wounds in muscle are filled up by cicatricial tissue, when the superficial muscle-corpuscles have been destroyed. Nerves and nerve-cells have but slight power of reproduction. It is very questionable whether ganglion-cells can be regenerated at all in adult individuals. We have no knowledge of ganglionic hyperplasia. In the case of nerves themselves, both regeneration and abnormal multiplication occur, though only to a slight extent. In nerve-regeneration the axis-cylinder and sheath of Schwann are the first to be formed, and then the medullary sheath. New nerves are developed only from existing nerves: at any rate very serious doubts attach to the statements which have been made in the opposite sense. Opinions differ as to the part played by the cells of the neurilemma and by the existing axis-cylinder. The statement that non-striated muscular fibres may be developed from connective-tissue cells has been made by more than one observer (J. Arnold, Virch. Arch. vol. 39 ; E. Neumann, Arch. d. Heilkunde x). It appears certain that cells having at least the structure and appearance of non-striated muscle- cells are so developed : but no proof has been given that they have correspond- ing physiological properties. With regard to striated muscle and its regeneration, Kraske, the latest writer on the subject, asserts positively that new muscle is produced only from existing muscle-elements. Ziegler's observations are in accordance with this. An embryological argument may be brought against the possibility of deriving voluntary muscle from connective tissue. According to the Hertwigs (Die Coelomtheorie Jena 1881) the striated muscle-fibres of vertebrates are of epithelial origin : they arise from the epithelia of the body-cavities. They are thus in their genesis and descent distinct from the connective tissues. (Cf. Balfour, Comp. Embryology, vol. n, ch. xxii.) On the striated muscle- cells of tumours see Art. 153. On the repair of nerves see Paget, Surg. Path. Lect. 11; and Ranvier, Hist. d. Syst. nerv. 1878. M.