PARASITES. 308 [SECT. VII. 214. The genus O'idium exhibits the processes of growth and multiplication in their simplest form. It forms a white downy covering on decaying organic substances, especially on animal excreta, fruit, grapes {O'idium Tucleeri), and sour milk. According to Grawitz (Virch. Arch. vol. 70) O'idium Jactis, which grows upon the surface of milk, passes through the following stages of development. The conidia or spores, which are ovoid cells, lengthen out into one or more germinal tubes, which very soon become jointed and throw out lateral branches. These branches are at first cylindrical, but later on they become rounded off, and then appear as lengthened ovoids. Sooner or later they break up by transverse subdivision into chains or chaplets of conidia. The several conidia-cells then recommence the developmental cycle, which proceeds as before. No true sporangia or spore-capsules are formed, and no kind of sexual reproduction has been observed. 215. Mucor Mucedo is a mould-fungus which grows on all kinds of substances, but chiefly on excreta and on articles of food. It forms the familiar white mouldy covering. When the spores are numerous it takes on a brownish-yellow powdery look. If these spores be sown on the surface of a decoction of horse-manure, for instance, they proceed to germinate within a few hours. The long ovoid spores become larger and more spherical. Then they throw out their germinal tubes or hyphae in one or more directions. In twenty-four hours a dense interlacing weft of mycelium is already formed, made up of non-septate filaments (Fig. 82 B m), branching indefinitely into finer and finer expansions. The entire mycelium is thus one enormously branched cell. When it reaches a certain point this vegetative growth ceases. The contents of the filaments become turbid, and draw towards the middle, from which springs a stouter branch than the rest, the coni- diophore or sporangiophore (g). When this has grown somewhat, a button-like protuberance appears at its apex; this is the spor- angium. It consists of an enclosing membrane and a protoplasmic core. The protoplasm becomes segmented and thus are formed a multitude of conidia (A). Septa then begin to develope in the filaments of the mycelium. These sporangia are non-sexual structures. When ripe they consist of a membranous spherical envelope, containing a mass of spores agglutinated by a sticky intercellular substance. In water the membrane gives way, and the conidia are set free. The mode of multiplication just described is the commonest: but there is also a sexual mode of propagation by means of what are called zygospores. The process is this:—the tips of two fila- ments rising from the mycelium are each marked off by a septum so that each ends in an apical cell (Fig. 82 B aa). These tips meet and the cells coalesce, and by absorption of the separating