10 INTRODUCTION. order in which they attack the individual organism from its first beginning to its end. we naturally direct our attention first to those which affect its development. The human being originates from a single cell by a process of continued cell-division. If for any reason a cell-group is not formed which naturally should be formed, the member or organ normally developed from this group will be lacking in the mature organism. A malformation is the consequence; and it is greater or less according to the number of cells undeveloped, and more or less obvious and striking according to the degree in which the symmetry and harmony of the whole is disturbed. When a struc- ture is thus lacking or incomplete it is described as a Hypo- plasia or Aplasia. The second kind of morbid change ends also in defect of struc- ture ; not however through interference with growth, but through the destruction or degeneration of parts already formed. This may of course occur in the embryonic stage, and result in aplasia, or it may take place at a later stage as atrophy. These destructive or degenerative processes are not always alike: they may be rapid, or they may be slow and gradual; they may sometimes be extensive and obvious, sometimes strictly local and not at once perceptible. Changes of this kind are included under the term Retrogression or Regression. In antithesis to these stand other processes distinguished as Progression, Overgrowth or Hyperplasia. As the names in- dicate, the characteristic of these changes is an abnormally active growth, a too abundant cell-production. When they occur during embryonic life we have produced the so-called Monstra per exces- sum; in other words we have structures excessive in relative size or duplicated. When they occur at a later stage, in the growing, stationary, or declining periods of life, they result in overgrowth of the organism as a whole, or of single organs or their parts, or lastly in so-called tumours. We may describe such changes as con- structive or formative. Constructive and retrogressive disturb- ances of nutrition are not to be regarded as wholly without correlation. On the contrary, progressive processes not infrequently succeed to retrogressive ones, the object here being, if we may speak teleologically, to replace parts which have been lost. In this case the process is described as Regeneration. A fourth type of morbid tissue-change is that known as Meta- plasia. Metaplastic processes are such as lead to the transforma- tion of one species of tissue into another. Sometimes they are retrogressive in character, sometimes rather constructive. The most important and most striking instances of this form of tissue- change are afforded by the cells. But the intercellular substances may also, and not infrequently, undergo more or less complete metamorphoses. Thus although we chiefly turn our attention to the cellular processes as after all the most essential, we must not