CHAP. XXI.] EARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. EXUDATION. 141 The increased temperature of an inflamed surface is due merely to the increased circulation of blood through the part; the loss of heat not keeping pace with the gain. Cohnheim found by experiment that, in the same time, nearly twice as much blood flowed through the inflamed paw of a dog as through the non-inflamed one. This is quite enough to account for the rise of temperature. 98. The causes of the alteration in the' vessels are thus the causes of the inflammation. In other words, the alteration in the vessels is the direct or indirect consequence of the injury which excited the inflammation. Or still more accurately—any injurious agency which is capable of altering the blood-vessels in a particular way is capable of producing inflammation. It is clear then that the number of agencies capable of exciting inflammation is indefinitely great: they are beyond enumeration or separate discussion. All we can say is that mechanical, thermal, and chemical agencies (and especially the latter) may act so as to alter the vessels and produce inflammation. The exciting cause of inflammation may operate in one of three ways. It is in the first place conceivable that the injurious agent (noxa) may primarily attack the vessels. This will be the case when it is brought to them in the blood itself. The surrounding tissue suffers only by a secondary effect. In the next place, there are cases in which the exciting injury affects both tissue and vessels at the same time. In a third instance, the tissue alone is injured: the alteration in the vessel-wall is secondary to alterations in the surrounding tissue. Of course these cases are not always completely independent. In the same case textural lesions and vas- cular lesions may intercombine in various ways at different times. . To produce inflammation an injury must be of a certain severity, and yet must not be too severe. Thus a slight wound of the corneal epithelium does not excite inflammation : the defect is simply filled up by regenerative proliferation. On the other hand, a powerful caustic applied to the skin produces at the cauterised spot not inflammation, but necrosis. Inflammation is indeed excited; but only in parts beyond the cauterised region. In these the caustic has not acted fully, so as to kill the vessels : it has merely altered or damaged them by chemical action. This example shows that there are no noxae which can be described specifically as exciters of inflammation. Between the injury which is too slight to affect the vessels, and that which affects them too severely or kills them outright, there is an endless number of intermediate degrees. The repair of the damaged vessel-wall is brought about by the vis medicatrix of the blood itself. If, when the injurious influence has ceased, the blood brings to the injured vessel the materials required for restoring it to its normal state, a restitutio ad integrum is effected. The inflammatory disturbance of the circulation thereupon comes to an end, and with it the exudation; and the process of healing is begun.