CHAP. II.] MALFORMATIONS BY ARREST IN SINGLE INDIVIDUALS. 27 canal is prevented; or else the medullary canal already formed is obliterated. This explains very easily the subsequent absence of the brain, and of its membranous and bony coverings. The cystic structures found upon the base of the skull Lebedeff believes to originate from the folds of the medullary plate, which sink into the substance of the mesoblast, and are then constricted off from the main mass. (2) Hernia Cerebri and Spina bifida are terms used to describe minor deficiencies in the walls of the skull or of the vertebral column, through which the contents of their respective cavities protrude. In the case of the skull, a sacculation appears on the surface, which contains either fluid {Meningocele), or brain- substance (Encephalocele), or both {Hydroencep>halocele). The fluid may lie either in the subarachnoid tissue, or in the ddated and sacculated ventricle; in the latter case it is enclosed on all sides by brain substance {Hydrocephalus externus and internas). Hernia cerebri is oftenest found in the occipital region, and at the root of the nose. The size of the sac, as also the size of the opening in the skull-wall, are very various. The malformation known as Spina bifida is generally limited to the sacral and lumbar regions of the vertebral column. The herniated sac is covered by the integuments, and contains either fluid only {Hydrorachis externa or Spinal meningocele); or fluid with a thin layer of cord-substance {Hydrorachis interna or Hydro- myelocele). In the latter case, the central canal is dilated by the fluid. An interesting series of cases of Spina bifida will be found described in Med. Times and Gaz. 2, 1858. (3) Cyclopia or Synophthalmia is a malformation in which the orbits form a single continuous cavity. This may be either very small, containing a mere rudiment of an eye or none at all, or larger in size and containing one eye or two lying close together. The nose is wanting, or represented by a snout-like projection just beneath the common orbit. When the brain is examined, we find instead of the cerebral hemispheres an undivided pointed vesicle running from behind forwards : the optic nerve is often either absent or single, and the olfactory nerve is likewise wanting. The other parts of the brain may also exhibit various malforma- tions. The malformation as a whole depends on the defective development of the primary cerebral vesicle, in consequence of which the optic vesicles remain either unevolved or in close contact with each other (Perls). Dareste thinks the cause is arrested development of the head-fold of the amnion. Keferences : Foerster, I.e. ; Dareste, I.c.; Perls, Allgcmeine Pathologic ii, 1879; Lebedeff, Virch. Arch. vol. 86; Marchand, I.e. ; Ackermann, Die Bchddeldifformitat bei der Encephalocele congenita Halle 1882.