CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 305 with extraordinary rapidity, so that in the twenty-fifth generation one-trillionth of the amount of matter originally used in the inoculation was all that was necessary to produce the same infective results. Da vain e became afterwards convinced that the virus attained its full power in the second or third genera- tion. Koch confirmed this, and explained it by showing that the original matter used in the inoculation was impure, i.e. contained other bacteria, and that the repeated inoculations gradually eliminated the admixture. Gaffky's experiments brought out the same result. Rosenberger (Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 4, 1882) has lately found that the gradual increase of virulence is more protracted in the case of the Bacillus oedematis. Wernich finds that the potency of the Micrococcus prodigiosus (that is, its faculty of multiplying and producing red colouring-matter) can be in- creased by modifying the mode of cultivation. Gaffky regards this fact as likewise due to the elimination of impurities. Buchner first announced in 1880 that hay-bacilli could be transformed into anthrax-bacilli. If hay-bacilli are injected into the blood of animals they do not give rise to anthrax. If however they are bred for several generations in meat-extract and then in the arterial blood of a rabbit, they accfuire noxious qualities and give rise to anthrax in mice after two to nine days' incubation. Conversely, if anthrax-bacilli are properly cultivated they can be transformed into bacilli whose properties are identical with those of hay-bacilli. Koch (loc. cit.) disputes the correctness of Buchner's observations, and suggests that he has been experimenting with the oedema-bacillus (Art. 206 (3)) instead of the Bacillus anthracis. According to Koch the anthrax-bacillus and the hay-bacillus do not resemble each other. Hay-bacilli are rounded at the ends and possess cilia or flagella: anthrax-bacilli are as it were cut off square. Buchner's cultures were impure, they contained germs of other bacilli and these by degrees suppressed the original forms. While the hay- bacillus was supposed to be breeding in the blood the oedema-bacillus, or some other of similar action, was developed; in the converse process the so-called anthrax-bacilli were gradually suppressed by others. In a later memoir (Akad. d. Wiss. Munich 1882) Buchner maintains his position and mentions fresh experiments bearing on it. In his view Cohn's Bacillus subtilis includes several varieties; namely (1) hay-bacilli, (2) Pas- teur's butyric-acid ferment, (3) Friz's bacterium (Ber. deutsch. chem. Gesellsch. ix, 1878) which converts glycerine into ethylic alcohol, (4) anthrax-bacilli. This fungus, which he regards as constituting a biological species, he calls Bacterium subtile. The properties of the variety which produces anthrax may be retained or withdrawn at pleasure by proper modes of cultivation. In the process of transformation transitional varieties appear representing inter- mediate stages between anthrax-bacilli and hay-bacilli. The middle forms only produce anthrax when injected in very large quantities. The process of transformation may be completed by cultivation in an alkaline solution of egg- yolk for twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The transformed bacillus (hay- bacillus) is distinguished by its energetic fermentive activity, and causes albumen to coagulate. It is inert when injected into the blood. Nageli, in his recent book entitled Untersuclmngen iiber niedere Pilze (Munich 1882), takes up the same position as Buchner with regard to the muta- bility of the bacteria. He believes that one and the same species may assume different forms according to the nutriment it is supplied with. These forms may exhibit different physiological and even morphological characters. The pathogenous bacteria are ' nutrimental' modifications of non-pathogenous species. Klein in an important report just published (Rep. Med. Off. to the Loc. Gov. Board for 1881) communicates the results of a series of researches under- taken to test Buchner's hypothesis. He points out the probable sources of error in Buchner's work, and concludes that the anthrax-bacillus retains its full power to produce specific disease so long as it retains any power at all. References : see under Arts. 209 and 219. M. 20