TUMOURS. [SECT. VI. 208 is no proliferation from the vessel-walls. Then several capillaries coalesce by disappearance of the septa, and so form larger cavities. When the cavernous metamorphosis reaches the border of a lobule, the periportal fibrous tissue forms a capsule round the transformed vascular mass, which at first has no definite boundary. At this stage proliferation of the tissue not infrequently sets in (c/. Eindfleisch, Path. Hist. vol. I p. 163). Angiomata are found, though very rarely, in the kidney, spleen, uterus, intestine, bladder, muscles, bones, &c. The above account of the development of cavernous tumours in the liver is considerably at variance with that given by Virchow {Die k. Geschwiilste, m). Virchow supposes that the first step is not a dilatation of the vessels, but the formation of new granulation-tissue. In this the vessels and vascular sinuses are formed. Ziegler is unable to find any traces of such a mode of genesis. He examined a liver which contained a multitude of angiomata varying from a scarcely perceptible speck to a tumour the size of a walnut. All stages of development were represented, from the dilatation of a single capillary up to the cavernous metamorphosis of an entire lobule. Yet in no instance was there any sign of proliferation at starting : atrophy and dilata- tion only were observed. Payne describes a remarkable case of a similar kind in the Trans. Path. Soc. 1869. The term angioma nowadays embraces formations which are genetically very diverse. Some angiomata are congenital, and are therefore conditioned by some disturbance of development. Others arise from new-formed vessels. Others again are the result of a kind of degenerative change; vascular dilatation following on abnormal relaxation of the vessel-wall, or on atrophy of the intervascular parenchyma. Formations of this kind, produced merely by dilatation and cavernous degeneration, should be excluded from the category of true tumours. 151. Aneurysm by anastomosis (anastomotic or racemose aneurysm) is not properly a neoplasm; it is rather a morbid change affecting a vascular territory. The arteries of the territory become dilated and convoluted, while the intervening tissue atrophies. The pulsating growth feels to the finger like a knot of writhing worms. Many of these growths originate, in congenital faults, especially those which occur in the scalp, and lead at times to erosion of the bone. Others are acquired, and follow upon mechanical injuries. The dilated arteries generally have thickened walls. The racemose or anastomotic varix is analogous to the racemose aneurysm. It is a common affection of the veins in the leg, the labia pudendi, and the spermatic cord (varicocele). Further details concerning aneurysm and varix will be found in the Special Pathological Anatomy under Vascular Affections. 152. Lymphatic angioma or lymphangioma is, in relation to the lymphatic system, what angioma (as hitherto considered) is to the haemic system. The essential character of the growth is dilata- tion of the lymphatic vessels, associated at times with hypertrophy of the vessel-wall and atrophy of the intervening tissue. We may distinguish the various forms into simple lymphangioma or lymphatic