CHAPTER XX. METAPLASIA. 90. A tissue is said to undergo metaplasia when it is trans- formed into another of a diverse kind; and that without passing through an indifferent blastema stage, with the characters of embryonic or formative tissue. In the foregoing chapter we have more than once pointed out that, of the several tissues belonging to the connective group, one may pass into another by simple modifications, partly affecting the cellular elements, partly the ground-substance. Such modifications are of the nature of metaplasias. They are' confined to the con- nective tissues:—fibrous tissue, cartilage, bone, mucous tissue, and adipose tissue, are so to speak potentially convertible. No such relation holds between fibrous tissue and epithelium or muscle. The processes involved in metaplasia have their physiological and embryological prototypes. Hyaline cartilage for example is specially prone to transformation: its matrix-substance often undergoes a mucoid softening on the one hand, or a change to fibrous tissue on the other. Hyaline cartilage is in fact at best a transitory structure in man : it disappears in ossification, partly by retrogressive changes, partly by transformation into other tissues such as medullary tissue and true bone. Simple areolar and adipose tissue are likewise prone to change: the panniculus adiposus or subcutaneous fat of the adult is in the foetus a mucoid tissue. Pathological metaplasias are however still more common than such physiological metamorphoses. The term metaplasia is due to Virchow, who has also fully investigated the significance of the processes included under it (Virch. Arch. vols. 8, 79 ; Gesammelte Abhandlungen 1856 pp. 500, 509 ; Cellular Pathology, and 4th German ed., p. 70). The subject seems to have awakened but little attention : it well deserves it, however, for metaplasia plays no small part in pathological change. 91. One of the commonest metaplasias of a connective tissue is that by which cartilage is transformed into mucoid tissue or into areolar tissue.