126 FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. The off-shoot may become attached to another vessel; it may unite with a second off-shoot; or it may return back into the vessel from which it starts, forming an arch of protoplasm (Fig. 20 c). From the solid off-shoot other secondary off-shoots may start (Fig. 20 b, c). Sometimes their extremities become club- shaped (c). The originally solid off-shoot becomes by and by excavated, by liquefaction of its central parts. The excavation quickly becomes continuous with the lumen of the vessel (a), or the wall of the latter bulges into the excavation. In either case the blood from the parent vessel penetrates the new one, and distends it. The excavation proceeds and extends onward to the point of junction of the new vessel with another, so that at length a new pervious capillary loop is formed. The off-shoot as it starts from the wall of the parent vessel is in effect a sprouted bud from an endothelial cell: when it subse- quently receives a nucleus it becomes an independent cell. The new blood-vessels are therefore intracellular channels, produced by the excavation of elongated or filamentous cells. For a short time after the opening up of the new capillary channel the vessel-wall remains homogeneous in structure. Soon the protoplasm begins to gather round the nuclei of the wall, which in the meantime have been multiplying by subdivision. Cells become in this way distinguishable, and presently the capillary- wall appears in its perfected form as a mosaic of flat endothelial cells. (As Arnold and others showed, the boundaries between the cells may be rendered apparent by injecting the vessels with solution of nitrate of silver.) By this time the wall has generally reached a considerable thickness. This is in part owing to the fact that ordinary formative cells attach themselves in numbers to the vessel-wall; they then dispose themselves along its length, and thus tend to give it needed strength (Fig. 20 d). So far as we have been able to make out, the process of forming new blood-vessels nearly always passes through the stages described. It is only at times that another stage is interpolated in which spindle-shaped, club-shaped, or branching formative cells become connected with the off-shoots from the capillary-walls, and develope into new vessels by central excavation in the same way as the off- shoots themselves develope. The subject of the formation of new vessels has a special interest in refer- ence to the theory of cell-multiplication. We have in this case to do not with symmetrical subdivision, but with gemmation : and moreover the initial movement is set up not as usual in the nucleus, but in the cell-protoplasm. The protoplasm of the endothelial wall-cells throws out a non-nucleated process: the subdivision and migration of the nucleus is subsequent to the movement in the protoplasm. The author has verified the above account in the course of his researches on granulation-tissue and on tumours (Zieglek, Ueber path. Bindegeioebs- und Gefiissneubildung Wiirzburg 1876). Strickee ( Wiener Sitzungsberichte 1865— 1866), Golubew {Arch. f. mikro. Anat. 1869), and Arnold (Virch. Arch. vols. 53, 54) have described the above mode of development of new vessels as