[SECT. VI. 202 TUMOURS. The number, size, shape, and grouping of the cartilage-cells vary much in different cases, and even within the same tumour. Many tumours abound in cells, in others they are sparse: in some the cells are large, in others small. They may be surrounded by capsules, or they may be naked; and crowded in groups within single capsules, or more uniformly scattered. Every variety of normal cartilage may occur also in chondromata. The form of the cells varies accordingly: they are usually spherical, but fusi- form and stellate cells are not uncommon, especially in the neigh- bourhood of the fibrous septa which divide or surround the lobules of the tumour. So far as the development of the tissue is concerned, all that was said in Art. 87 applies also here. The matrix is derived either from pre-existing cartilage, or from marrow, periosteum, bone, or other connective tissue. Cartilaginous tumours which originate in cartilage have been called ecchondroses (cf. exostoses). Chondromatous tissue is very apt to undergo retrogressive change. Some of the cells generally contain oil-globules. In large tumours the matrix-substance frequently undergoes mucoid softening and liquefaction, at points scattered here and there through it. This results in the formation of mucous tissue (Arts. 90—92) ; or in complete liquefaction of the matrix and destruction of the cells, and so in the formation of cysts containing liquid. In other cases the cartilage becomes calcified, or true bone is developed (Art. 165). Sarcomatous tissue may be produced when the cartilage-cells multiply rapidly. Chondromata are generally speaking innocent, though meta- stases are occasionally met with. In reference to cartilaginous growths, we must be careful to distinguish hyperplasia from true neoplasm. We must not set down all cartilaginous formations as chondromata, even when they are extensive. We often find considerable cartilaginous growths in connexion with bones (especially at the articular ends), which are quite certainly to be regarded as hyperplastic. It is the general course of the process which must decide in each case. The more completely a growth differs from its matrix, and developes as an independent tissue, the more certain we are that it is a real tumour. Virchow (Monatsber. d. Acad. d. Wiss. Berlin 1875) has made it probable that many osseous enchondromata originate in remnants of cartilage which have abnormally remained unossified. Such quiescent islands of cartilage certainly exist and are not at all uncommon: it may well happen that they suddenly resume the habit of growth and begin to proliferate. Virchow suggests (by way of accounting for parotid enchondromata) that outlying bits of foetal cartilage may lodge in the rudimental parotid gland, which properly belong to the rudimental pinna of the ear. See Paget, Surg. Path. Lect. 26 ; Med. chir. Trans. 1855 : Kanvier, Bull. Soc. Anat. 1865 : Virchow and Hirsch, Virch. Jahresber. 1869. /. Osteoma, 147. The osteomata are tumours composed of osseous tissue. Their usual seat is in connexion with the bones, though they may occur elsewhere.