301 CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. reason of its lively movements: these sometimes cause the red blood-cells to be driven and pushed about in the field of view. The spirillum of relapsing fever was discovered by 0-BERMEYER in 1873 (Centralb. f. med. IViss. 10, 1873 and Bed. him. Wooh. 33, 1873). Since then it has often been examined and described. See Weigert, Deutsche med. Woch. 1876; IIeydenkeich, Der Parasit des Riickfcdlstyphus Berlin 1877 ; Moczutkowsky, Arch, f. kiin. Med. xxiv ; Geddes and Ewart, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxvii. The successful inoculation of the monkey was performed by Carter (Deutsche med. Woch. 16, 1879, Lancet 1, 1880, and Spirillum Fever London 1882). 208. If we accept for a moment the hypothesis that all or most infective diseases (other than those due to animal parasites) are caused by the development of bacteria in some tissue or fluid of the body, we are met at once by the question whether in that case each specific form of disease has a corresponding specific bacterium. From a clinical standpoint this question must be answered in the affirmative. The most marked feature of the infective diseases is just this, that they run a typical and special course. Even though this may in individual cases be modified by various influences, it is in general so characteristic, so patho- gnomonic, that the disease can often be diagnosed by its course alone. We should therefore have no hesitation in inferring from the specific course of the disease that the virus which excites it is also specific. Histological examination of the tissues of patients affected with bacterial disease has shown that in some cases (relapsing fever, anthrax, tuberculosis, leprosy) well-marked forms of fungi are always detected: and further that these forms of fungi, or at least forms belonging to one or other of their developmental stages, are the only ones constantly found. In other cases such histological distinction has not yet been possible. The micrococci occurring in various infective diseases do not as yet afford us characters sufficiently well-marked to form a basis for distinguishing them into species. It must not however be assumed that these various micrococci are identical, and that it is merely the accidental association with them of this or that poison which makes them seem to have different properties. If the micrococcus that is found be in fact the exciting cause of the disease, we must admit that it must be endowed ab initio with distinct properties. From the pathological point of view as well as from the clinical, we must regard it as belonging to a distinct species. As we pointed out in Art. 183, we are compelled to classify the bacteria into species on other grounds than those that apply to the higher plants. Our classification is based as yet on their morphological and physiological peculiarities. In the case of the micrococci we are confined almost entirely to the latter. We are compelled to set up physiological species. Thus as the chroma- togenous micrococci are classified according to the colour they