4G ANOMALIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD. [SECT. II. forgotten that if air be allowed access the livid colour may speedily change to a brighter red. True hyperaemia must of course not be confounded with post-mortem staining of the tissues. The arteries after death squeeze out hy the contrac- tion of their walls the greater part of the blood they contain. This passes into the veins, and, being affected by gravity, most readily into the parts that are lowest. Such a pseudo-hyperaemia is called a hypostasis. Reddened patches on the skin due to such post-mortem movement of the blood are called livores. They appear three hours or more after death, and commonly upon the back and sides of the trunk and the posterior surfaces of the limbs and neck. If there be already an ante-mortem engorgement of these parts, it will appear more intensely after death. In order to observe the process of engorgement which ensues when the circulation is disturbed, we may conveniently make use of the tongue or the foot-web of a frog which has been curarised (Gohnheim, Virch. Arch. vol. 40). The object must be spread out under the microscope on a proper holder. For example, the tongue may very simply be arranged by turn- ing it out over a cork ring glued to the stage of the instrument, and stretching it with common pins stuck into the cork. When the circulation is normal the pulsating arterial stream, as well as the continuous venous stream, are seen to be bordered by a zone of plasma. If now engorgement be induced by ligature of the efferent vein of the tongue, the stream becomes slower—the zone of plasma in the veins disappears—and both veins and capillaries become tightly crammed and dilated with the red blood-cells as they accumulate. After a time the tongue begins to swell up, as it becomes infiltrated with the transuded liquid. The frog's tongue and foot-web are also very well adapted for studying the changes of the circulation in congestive hyperaemia, and in anaemia. 22. Pathological anaemia is dependent upon oligaemia, or upon ischaemia. In oligaemia there is a general deficiency of blood throughout the body: the anaemia of the several organs is due less to defective distribution by the vessels than to the in- adequate quantity of blood they contain. Ischaemia on the other hand can give rise only to local anaemia: it always implies a diminution of the blood-supply to the affected part. Ischaemia may of course coexist with oligaemia. Pathological diminution of the blood-supply to an organ is often due simply to an abnormal increase of the normal resistance offered by the arterial channels; in other words, to powerful contraction of the circular muscular fibres of the arteries. In other cases, the resistances are pathological in character: such are, for example, compression, diminution of the lumen owing to morbid changes in the vessel wall, deposits on the inner surface of the vessel, &c. The result of diminishing the calibre of an artery is, in the first instance, to slow and to weaken the blood-current behind the constricted point. If the artery be completely occluded, the circulation behind the obstacle comes at once to a standstill. Yet the later consequences of such obstructions to the circulation are by no means always identical. Everything depends on the question whether the arteries behind the point of obstruction have