[SECT. VII. PARASITES. 288 the prolonged presence of bacteria results in the suppression not alone of the nutritive activity, but also of the other functions of the tissue-cells; and at length their life itself is enfeebled or extinguished. The products of the decomposition set up by the bacteria, the unorganised ferments and other poisons, also give rise to changes in the tissue-cells. It is possible that in many cases they only tend to modify the nutritive activity, i.e. the metabolism of the cells; but the other functions are doubtless often affected likewise. These modifications of the normal cell-life in their totality are manifested as disturbances of the functions of the organism, and we speak of them as symptoms of disease. The mode in which the several symptoms are produced we cannot here stop to discuss. All we need say is that a disturbance of cellular activity is always at the bottom of a morbid symptom: mere alteration in an organic fluid is not enough to give rise to symptoms. Thus the origin of fever cannot be explained otherwise than by assuming the existence of some cellular disturbance. The chief factor in producing the elevation of temperature may be a change in the fermentive action of the cells, or it may be a dis- turbance of the functions of the central nervous system. That is a question which is open to discussion; but it does not touch the question of the cellular nature of the febrile process. Inflammation itself is only to be explained by cellular change. In bacterial affections, inflammation appears as a specially benefi- cent process. By it a number of living cells are thrown out at the seat of danger, and they are the readiest instruments for checking the harmful influence of the fungi. The issue of a bacterial affection is either the death of the patient, or the death and elimination of the bacteria. In the former case the bacteria interfere with the functions of cells so numerous or so essential to life, that life becomes impossible. In the latter case the tissue-cells gain the upper hand in the struggle for nourishment and existence, and the bacteria are at length deprived of the conditions essential to their continued life. Observations on the infective diseases of man and on experi- mentally-produced bacterial diseases in animals have shown that a disease of the kind successfully withstood leaves the tissues in a peculiarly unsusceptible condition. This condition may endure for months or years, and it ensures an immunity almost or quite complete against a fresh invasion of the same or kindred bacteria. We do not know whether this singular effect is due to a modifica- tion in the chemical constitution of the tissues, or to a change in the vital activity of the cells. References:—Voit, Physiologie des Stoffweclisels Leipzig 1881; Nageli, Die niederen Pilze Munich 1877, and 1882; Buchnek, Die Niigetfsche Theorie der Infectionskrankheiten Leipzig 1878 ; Klebs, Article Ansteckende Krankheiten, Realencylopiidie der gesammten Heilkunde von Eulenburg,