CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. FIBROMA. 197 The fibroma is developed from proliferous connective-tissue cells. Accordingly spots are often to be found in it where cells Fig. 38. Fibroma molldscdm op the skin. (Injected preparation stained with haematoxylin: x 25) a fibroma b papilla thinned out by distension are more abundant than in the tumour generally: in such spots we find not only the slender spindle-shaped kind, but also round and oval cells, and even stellate cells. The transformation of the proliferated cellular tissue into fibrous tissue is effected by the same steps as in fibrous hyperplasia (Art. 85). Fibromata may occur in very various tissues; in any structure indeed which contains any form of connective tissue. Thus they are found in the skin, nerves, ovary, periosteum, fasciae, uterus, and less often in the mamma, alimentary canal, &c. Their appearance is always manifestly different from that of the matrix in which they are seated (Fig. 38). Fibromata do not give rise to metastatic or secondary tumours, though they are often enough multiple, especially in the skin, nerves, and uterus. Within the same tumour we may often make out several centres of growth: the fibroma is in fact composed of several nodes separated by ordinary fibrous tissue. Such tumours can only do injury in virtue of their size or of their site. Now and then fibromata undergo degenerative changes. They may become fatty, or may soften and break down, so that cavities form within them. They may give way at the surface and so ulcerate; sometimes they become partially calcified, as in the case of uterine ' fibroids.' They may be highly vascular, or the reverse (Fig. 38). In rare cases the blood-vessels become wide and dilated, so that the tissue is pierced with capacious channels and cavities containing blood. In other instances the lymphatics are similarly dilated. It is not always easy to distinguish between true fibroma and fibrous hyperplasia. In general the fibroma is chai*acterised by the difference between its texture and that of the surrounding tissue, from which moreover it is for