163 CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. To this group of infective granulomata belong the neoplastic formations found in tuberculosis, syphilis, leprosy, lupus, glanders, and actinomycosis. All these affections are due to the invasion of the body by a virus or poison derived from the outer world, or from the body of another individual. This virus may probably be produced by vegetable parasites. In leprosy (Armauer Hansen, Neisser), tuberculosis (Koch), and syphilis (Klebs) bacteria have been found, and in actinomycosis a special fungus. These are declared to be the originating causes of the respective diseases. Our ideas as to the nature and character of these affections are as yet mainly based upon their clinical course; but we have also derived some- thing from inoculation-experiments. Tuberculosis and syphilis are thus known to be communicable from one person to another; tuberculosis is also communicable from man to lower animals. It was Virchow who invented the term 'granulative growth' or 'granu- loma ' for these formations, which he was the first to define accurately {Die krankhaften Geschwiilste Ii). He set it down as characteristic of them—that they usually fail to develope beyond the stage of granulation-tissue ; that this is unstable in character; and that the regular issue is in ulceration. He laid stress on their near alliance to the products of inflammatory processes. Klebs (Prager Vierteljahrsschr. vol. 126) called such growths 'infective growths or tumours,' and the name has been adopted by Cohnheim. Neither descrip- tion is exactly adequate. Virchow's takes no account of their infective character: Klebs' bears no reference to their structure. As it is by no means certain that there are no other new formations of infective origin, some apter designation seems called for. Even Eindpleisch's term 'specific inflamma- tion ' is too indefinite, for it might perfectly well apply to a number of other processes, such as those of pyaemia, erysipelas, variola, &c. In this book the term ' infective granuloma' will be used : this serves to keep in view both the structure and the clinical character of the morbid formations in question. Tubercle and Tuberculosis. 118. The structure characteristic of tuberculosis is the tubercle, or tuberculous nodule. The notion of tuberculosis is thus primarily an anatomical one—tuberculosis is a tubercular (i. e. nodular) disease. Of course it does not follow conversely—that every nodular growth found in the organism implies tuberculosis: the special nodule of tuberculosis, the tubercle par excellence, is a structure of definite and special constitution. Virchow (Die krankhaften Geschwulste n, 636) describes a freshly-formed tubercle as—a small grey translucent nodule, not exceeding a millet-seed in size, mainly composed of cells, and developed from connective tissue. The cellular elements (he adds) are essentially similar to those of lymphatic glands: they are round cells of various sizes, some of them like white blood-cells, some larger, some smaller. Their nuclei are homogeneous and bright, small and spherical or large and oval, vesicular, and transparent; they contain nucleolar corpuscles. The larger cells often contain two nuclei, and frequently more—to the number of twelve or over. Between the cells are found fibrous 11—2