CHAP. XIII.] AMYLOID DEGENERATION AND CONCRETIONS. 93 Ziegler discovered amyloid bodies in syphilitic scars (Virch. Arch. vol. 65), ia a haeinorrhagic infarct of the lung which had healed, and in a cancer of the stomach. 62. As to the causes and the nature of amyloid degene- ration, there is little to say that is quite definite or quite certain. We know of course in what circumstances it is apt to occur, namely in cachectic conditions of the system. On the other hand, we do not know to what alterations in normal metabolism the morbid process owes its special character. The forms of cachexia which lead to extensive amyloid change are in particular tuber- culosis, syphilis, chronic destructive ostitis or periostitis, chronic dysentery (coeliac flux), and leukaemia; while the cancerous cachexia seldom tends to favour it. Amyloid degeneration may however occur without previous disease. Some of Cohnheim's researches show (Virch. Arch. vol. 54) that the degeneration may become developed in two to three months. Amyloid change extending to several organs is a local disorder conditioned by general causes. The amyloid substance does not exist in the blood, yet the material out of which it is developed is derived from the blood. It would appear that reduced vital activity of the tissues dependent on general cachexia favours the formation of the substance. We may perhaps provisionally picture to ourselves the formation of this peculiar substance, as due to a combination of an albuminoid body from the blood with certain components of the tissues: or we may regard it as a modification of the albumen of the blood, separating out from the latter in consequence of some abnormal metabolism in the cachectic patient. In local amyloid formations, the substances metamorphosed are partly albumen from the blood (concretions formed in extrava- sations), partly albumen derived from epithelial cells (tube-casts and prostatic concretions). In the latter case the special meta- morphosis is effected, without the co-operation of living tissue, in albumen which has lain for a time in the tissues without being of them. Here the conditions must be of a purely local nature. Virchow (Cellular Pathology) and Kyber (Virch. Arch. vol. 81) have compared the amyloid degeneration of tissues to the process of chalky deposit, and the comparison seems a good one. In both cases we probably have a tissue whose nutrition is somehow lowered ; a substance brought to the tissue by the blood ; and an intimate combination between this substance and a substance pre-existing in loco. Wagner (Handbuch d. allgem. Pathologic 1874 p. 417) considers the lardaceous material we have described to be clue to a retrogressive metamorphosis of albuminoids, forming in fact an intermediate stage between these bodies and fat. Dickinson argues that it is of the nature of fibrin (blood-albumen) 'modified by loss of alkali or gain of acid' (Trans. Path. Soc. 1879). A statistical analysis of the causes of amyloid degeneration is given by Hennings (Inaug. Diss. Kiel 1880). He makes out that phthisis and suppura- tion oi bone hold the first tank among the aetiological conditions. The spleen is oftenest diseased; after that follow in order tho kidneys, liver, intestine, stomach, suprarenal capsules, pancreas, lymphatic glands, thyroid gland, aorta, lungs, ovaries, uterus. Somewhat similar analyses are given by Fagge (Trans. Path. Soc. 1876) and Turner {ibid. 1879).