256 [SECT. VI. TUMOURS. 181. It is plain from the above that we do not think the hypothesis tenable which refers all tumours whatsoever to pre- existing embryonic germs. Anatomical investigation forces us rather to the conclusion that tumours may arise in tissues that are in very different states—embryonic, growing, mature, or retro- gressive. What is then the efficient cause of the formation of a tumour ? It is as yet impossible to give any precise answer to this question. It is highly probable that the causation of the various classes of tumours is not subject to one law only, but to several. The entire behaviour, anatomical and biological, of tumours justifies us in regarding them as formations more or less emanci- pated from the matrix-tissue. It is true they draw their nutriment from the organism, and cannot continue to grow without its support. In other respects, however, they behave like independent growths isolated from the rest of the organism. It is in this independence or quasi-isolation that the aetiological difficulty really lies. How does the neoplasm thus assume properties dis- tinct from those of its surroundings ? We believe that the phenomenon is ultimately due to some change affecting individual elements of a tissue, whereby they are rendered dissimilar to their neighbours. The change is manifested especially in this—that the normal checks to the indefinite growth of the proliferous cells (Arts. 78—83) are inoperative or inadequate; either because the formative and productive energy is increased, or because the restraining influence of the surrounding structures is diminished, or from both causes together. In the case of tumours appearing in the organism during the stage of development, it is most natural to suppose that the originating cause lies in an increased local growth due to intrinsic conditions: or, it may be, in a disturbance and diversion of the developmental process from its normal course. What the ultimate factors determining these deviations may be we know as little as we do the causes of gigantic overgrowth or local dwarfing of a limb or organ. When the anatomical and physiological relations of the affected tissue are altered to a certain extent by this local change, it would seem as if the tissue had no longer the power to maintain the normal direction in which its development should proceed. The altered relations (such as misplacement, &c.) seem to involve the withdrawal of the limiting and directing influence exerted on the growing tissue by its environing structures. The result is the development of a tissue of abnormal type, a local misformation in the histological as well as the anatomical sense. The tumours whose genesis is probably of this kind are chiefly the connective- tissue growths of childhood. Among epithelial tumours we may also perhaps include the few observed cases of renal and intestinal cancer, and of ovarian adenoma, in infants. It is thus not impossible that tumours of the developmental