12 INTRODUCTION. human organism. Only of late years have we learned that the domain of these parasitic disorders, as they are called, is of wide and far-reaching extent. Formerly we were acquainted with such vegetable and animal parasites only as are relatively large in size and easy to detect: in the last twenty years our improved optical instruments have made us aware of a great number of minute and hitherto unperceived species of parasitic organisms. The Schizo- mycetes, or Bacteria, especially have been recognised in recent years as the causes of certain most grave diseases. The obser- vations now before us make it probable that the ' bacterial' affections are very widely diffused. These investigations are of deep interest, and have vastly increased our store of facts concern- ing the diseases in question. It must not however be forgotten that the study of parasitic fungi can only make real and well- grounded additions to our knowledge of the associated diseases, can only in any measure yield us a true theory of them, can only lead us to a full understanding of the entire morbid process, when it has succeeded in making out the manner in which the fungi act, and the causal relation existing between fungus and disease. Fungi have been detected in a large number of diseases, but only in a few cases have we gained an insight into their mode of affecting the organism. The mere presence of a fungus in the system cannot be described as disease. Disease only begins when, owing to the presence of the fungus, changes take place in the tissues of the organism which induce disturbances of their functions. Here then a wide field lies open to research. The detection of fungi in the diseased organism is but the first step towards dis- covery of the cause of the disease and its mode of operation. It is a long way from this first step to the full and complete explanation of the entire process. This hiatus in our knowledge must not be too little thought of. The smallest contribution to the filling up of the gap is at least as welcome as the discovery of a new fungus, —perhaps even more welcome. The pathologist must keep his attention well-fixed in this direction. Even though it may lie beyond his present powers to follow the processes in which morpho- logical change is no longer detectible, and molecular transformation recognisable only by the chemist takes its place, there nevertheless remains a vast region still accessible to his means of research. In dealing with fungi we have to do with formed elements, with cells in fact. The changes they produce are changes in cells and their derivatives: and in so much as relates to cellular processes and changes in formed protoplasm we have matter within the scope of anatomical investigation. The path along which aetiological research has to proceed is twofold—examination of the altered human organ on the one hand, experiment on the other. The former in this case cannot lead us to much. Experiment is by far the more promising way. If a given, fungus-disease can be produced in animals, it becomes