246 tumout;s. [sect. VI. is at length evolved, whose structure resembles in all points the structure of the parent nodule. The hepatic lobules are either pushed aside and compressed, or they are interpenetrated by strings of cancer-cells starting from the nodule. This is the result of the mode of growth of the nodule. It grows chiefly at its periphery, and extends along the open capillary channels (Fig. 73). In this way the capillaries themselves are one after another replaced by cancer- tissue. As this latter extends, the liver-cells gradually disappear. The epithelial elements of the secondary nodules are to be regarded as, without exception, the progeny of the original cancer-cells transplanted from the parent growth. The fibrous tissue in which they are imbedded is furnished by the connective- tissue elements of the blood-vessels. The origin of the cancer-cells in secondary nodules has been the subject of as much discussion as the genesis of the primary growth. Even now a certain amount of disagreement exists on the question. Rindfleisch, Klebs, Gussenbauer, Weil, and others, maintain that the connective-tissue cells, and especially the endothelia of the blood-vessels and lymphatics, take an active share in forming the cancer-cells of the metastatic growths. Gussen- bauer (Langenbeck's Arch. f. Chir. xiv) and Weil ( Wien. med. Jahrb. 1873) go so far as to say that even striated and non-striated muscle-fibres may be stirred up (in a manner infected) so as to produce cancer-cells. Simon, Creighton, Moxon, and others in this country, have put forward like theories : they are accustomed to speak of a ' spermatic' influence exerted by the transported germs upon the tissue-elements of their new seat (Trans. Path. Soc. 1874). Ziegler is unable to find any satisfactory evidence for such a view. He made numerous investigations bearing on the question, and under his guidance Fronista examined a multitude of secondary growths in various organs; but no certain grounds for the theory were ever discovered. Active changes in the fixed cells were often very beautifully shown; but wherever it was possible to trace the fate of these cells it was foimd that they merely went to form the type of tissue which they would reproduce in normal circumstances. The osteoblasts of the periosteum and marrow form bone or fibrous tissue; endothelial cells likewise produce only connective tissue. It is not however to be inferred that these investigations absolutely and certainly exclude the possibility of a cancerous transformation of the products of connective-tissue proliferation. When a tissue has undergone extensive proliferous changes, nothing certain can be made out from it regarding the origin or the fate of individual cells. ■ The cancerous embolus acts like a foreign body. Round it are set up inflammatory infiltration of leucocytes on the one hand, and multiplication of the fixed cells on the other. Both processes result in fibrous hyperplasia, which in many cases goes to form a new stroma for the growing nodule. The same processes are thus repeated here as occur in the fibrous structures of the primary focus. It is therefore well to hold by the doctrine of Remak and Goodsir—at least until it is certainly disproved—that as the descendants of the different embryonic layers are never transformed into each other in normal circumstances, so also under pathological conditions no such metaplasia can occur. Even the transformation of one epithelial formation into another suggested by some (Rindfleisch, Path. Histology Art. 531; Perls, Virch. Arch. vol. 5(i; &c.) has not been established. When carcinomata of the liver are examined the liver-cells are seen to dwindle and perish, but not to change to cancer-cells. Even in cases where mammary cancer penetrates the corium and reaches the epithelial layers of the skin, it is always possible to distinguish clearly between the cancer-cells and the true cutaneous epithelium.