CHAP. XXX. | THE SCHIZOJflYCETES OR BACTERI A. 27o Berne 1874, and artioles in the' Journ. fur praht. Chemie, Jonrn. fur physiol. Chemie, and Benefit, d. deutsch. chemisch. Oesell. 1876—82; Salkowski, articles in the Bericht. d. d. chem. Oes. and Zeitsch. f. physiol. Cliem. of the last year or two ; Briecier, Zeitsch. f. physiol. Chem. n, in, IV, and Zeitsch. f. Mill. Med. m; Gautier and Etard, Comptes Eendus 1882. The quantity of oxygen present has an important influence on the products formed in bacterial decomposition. Pasteur asserts that fungi which grow in presence of oxygen set up chiefly oxidative changes. Those which can multiply in the absence of oxygen give rise to non-oxidative decompositions. Hoppe-Seyler (Ueb. d. Einfiuss des Sauerstoffes auf Gahrungen Strasburg 1881) supports this view by his observation that when oxygen is abundantly supplied to the yeast-plant the disintegration of sugar into alcohol and carbonic anhydride is retarded, and volatile acid bodies are produced in abundance. If bacteria in an albuminous liquid be well supplied with oxygen, products like indol, hydroparacuminic acid, and sulphuretted hydrogen (which are largely formed when oxygen is wanting), entirely disappear. The oxygen oxidises them as they are produced ; the primary products of the fermentation at once undergo further change. On pigment-producing bacteria see Cohn and Schroeter, Beitriige z. Biol, d. Pjtanzen vol. I. 192. Fermentation and putrefaction can only take place in the presence of the corresponding fungi, and the amount of decomposition produced depends on the quantity of fungi present. It does not however follow that each kind of decomposition is due to a single specific fungus, nor that one fungus may not give rise to more than one kind of decomposition. We cannot as yet define with certainty the kinds of decomposition which correspond to each species of fungus. We know however that ordinary putrid decomposition occurs under the action of Bacterium termo; while Cohn asserts that micrococci do not give rise to putrid change, but to changes of another kind. The butyric fermentation is said to be chiefly due to the presence of Clostridium butyricum. Anthrax- bacilli generate ammonia in the nutrient liquid. In most putrefying substances we find bacteria of several species. Naegeli affirms that it is possible by cultivation so to alter the properties of a bacterium that it no longer has the power to produce the changes originally associated with it; while it assumes the power of calling forth fermentations of a different kind. Thus the bacterium which produces the lactic acid fermentation may, he says, be cultivated in saccharated extract of meat in such a way that at first it produces in milk an ammoniacal decomposition only; and it does not resume its power of generating lactic acid until after several generations. If this be so we may perhaps infer that within certain limits the physiological properties of a bacterium may be transmuted: or at least that, by change of condition, one or other of several potential functions may be called into activity. The facts have not however been sufficiently confirmed. We have said that fermentation and putrefaction are always due to fungi; but we do not thereby deny that other kinds of decomposition may affect organic substances in which fungi play no part. Such changes do in fact occur. They usually take the form of slow oxidation or combustion, in 18—2