CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. TUBERCLE. 167 Tubercle London 1882), Hamilton (Practitioner 1879—1881), Klein (Practi- tioner 1881), Burdon Sanderson (Practitioner 1882), Gee (Article Tuberculosis, Quain's Diet, of Medicine 1882). Ziegler (Ueber die Herhunft des Tuberlcelelemente Wurzburg 1875, and Ueber path. Bindegewcbsneubildung 1876) has sought to show that neither giant-cells nor epithelioid cells are exclusively confined to tubercle, but are to be found in all granulations. Between the latter and tubercle ■ the only difference is—that in healthy granulations the multinuclear cells occur but sparingly, while in tubercle they are in great numbers and highly developed. In tubercle the formative material is abundantly provided and fibroblasts produced, but they are not utilised for further development into fibrous tissue. The giant-cells of granulation-tissue are to be distinguished from those which arise from epithelial cells. "When tubercles form in epithelial ducts, such as those of the liver or testis, the affected epithelial cells seem to coalesce and form structures much resembling the giant-cells of granulations (cf. Klein, Lymphatic System part II London 1875). They have properly nothing to do with the formation of the granulomatous tubercle. They are accidental conse- quences of the locality in which the tubercle is developed. To draw conclusions from them (as do Gaule, Virch. Arch. vol. 49, and Lubimow, Virch. Arch. vol. 75) with regard to the genesis of all tuberculous giant-cells is not permissible. 121. Diffusion of tubercle. When a tuberculous organ is examined we do not usually find the tubercles in their earlier stages; they have already undergone certain advanced changes. Parenchymatous organs contain caseous nodulated patches or foci, which are either firm and compact in texture or are already softened and broken down towards the centre. In surface-tissues, ulcerations are produced by this softening process, and their edges and base are caseous. The caseated tissue passes at its boundaries a, h- f d FlO. 30. FuNGATING GRANULOMA WITU TUBEHCLES FllOM THE CALCANEUM. (Haematoxylin staining: x GO) a medullary tissue containing fat e granulation-tissue 6 blood-vessels / tubercles in the granulation-tissue, c bone trabeculae some containing giant-cells d osteoclasts (Art. 115) g isolated tubercle