chap, xxxn.] PKOTOZOA. 345 This enters the body of the pike, the trout, or the eel-pout {Lota vulgaris) (Biiaun, Virch. Arch. vol. 88), and developes in the muscles or viscera into an asexual tape-worm. If it thence reach the alimentary canal of man, it proceeds to develope further and becomes sexually mature. It has been maintained that B. lotus represents the mature form of the cestoid of the trout, known as Ligula nodosa. See Duchamp, Les Ligules Paris 1876 ; Kiessling, TroscheVs Arch. 1882. In Greenland another form, B. cordatus, occurs. It is only 1 metre long and has a heart-shaped head. B. cristatus, 2 to 3 metres long, with a crest-like rostellum, has been found in France. Protozoa. 250. Protozoa are not rarely found in the cavities of the body accessible from without, such as the mouth, lungs, intestine, vagina, &c.: they are most common in patients suffering from chronic disease. The forms observed belong to the PJiizopoda, Infusoria, and Psorospermia or Sporozoa, respectively. Of parasitic Amoebae one species only has been described, the Amoeba colt. It occurs in the intestine, and is simply a motile cell with a granular protoplasm containing a nucleus and several vacuoles. Losch and Sonsino found the Amoeba coli in the dejections of a patient suffering from dysentery. Among Infusoria the Ciliata and the Flagellata are repre- sented. Paramoecium (or Balantidium) coli is a large ciliated organism occasionally met with in the large intestine and in the faeces. Cercomonas intestinalis (Davaine) is a pyriform infusorian, with a spine-like process at its smaller end and a flagellum at its larger end. It is found in the intestine in cases of catarrh, of typhoid, and of cholera. Kannenberg discovered Cercomonas in the sputa from a patient affected with gangrene of the lungs. In the same sputa he also found Monas lens, a spherical flagellate infusorian. Trichomonas is another flagellate infusorian; it is oval in shape and provided with a comb-like row of cilia. One species (T. vaginalis) is found in the vagina, another (T. intestinalis) in the intestine. These protozoa are not to be regarded as the exciting cause of the affections with which they are associated. They may possibly however maintain or intensify the morbid processes, when present in considerable numbers. Of parasitic Psorospermia we have here to mention the Coccidia. According to Leuckart, they are when young simple non-capsulated inhabitants of the epithelial cells. When they reach maturity they become invested with a kind of mem- branous capsule. In this condition they leave their first lodging, and generally their host at the same time. Their contents are