INTRODUCTION. 4 In the observations we made on the amoeba it was heat or cold, an altered surrounding medium, or the galvanic current, which brought about disease and death. All these noxious influences are derived from without. And what we have here remarked in a single instance experience shows us to be universal. Autonomous as the cell may seem, it is yet unable without external impulsion to heighten its functions above the physiological standard, or on the other hand to check or to suppress them. We can therefore give a still more exact definition of the notion of disease. By the term disease we are to understand a deviation of some of the vital manifestations from the normal, the deviation being conditioned by external influences. But in considering disease as thus defined we must not limit our attention to the case of a single individual, or we shall find our dictum contradicted by everyday experience. If we could observe under the microscope the successive generations of a unicellular organism, and follow with certainty the life-history of each, we should come upon individuals whose functions were abnormally performed, and that although it might be impossible to detect any injurious external influence at work. We should then have to confess that the abnormal behaviour was here, as in senile retrogression, conditioned by intrinsic properties. This would in fact be trne, yet it would not contradict the above proposition—that disease can only arise through changes in the external conditions. If we had had before us a complete series of the cell's ancestors, and had noted all the phases of their lives, we should have found that the morbid phenomena of the last cell, though not immediately traceable to external influences, had yet already appeared in some of the foregoing generations. And there we should have found that external conditions existed which exercised a disturbing influence on the cell's life. The morbid condition of the last cell then had not its origin in the cell's own lifetime. It was acquired from the mother-cell along with existence itself: the cell inherited it. We must thus distinguish inherited from acquired diseases. What we have hitherto said of morbid life and death aj)plies primarily to the individual cell. But the organism with which the physician and the surgeon have to deal is not unicellular. The human body is built up of millions of cells, and these cells differ one from the other in their morphological as well as in their physiological properties. Among unicellular organisms each single cell must exercise all the functions of life: but in many-celled organisms the principle of the division of labour is carried to a high degree of completeness. Different cell-groups have built up organs differing utterly in form and substance; even the component cells of the same organ are not all of the same nature. Notwith- standing this, we have no reason to suppose that what is true of the single cell is not also true of the various cell-groups.