CHAP. XXX I.] 311 HYPHOMYCETES OR MOULDS. of conidia so that the head of the conidiophore is at length covered w ith a sheaf of such chains. While the conidia are developing, the sexual organs are being formed within the same mycelium. The end of a mycelial filament becomes twisted like a corkscrew (A as); and the spiral turns come closer and closer to each other, till at last they touch and form a hollow spiral tube. This is the female organ or carpogonium (as). From the lowermost turns of the carpogonium thin branches sprout out, which grow up over the outside of the spiral. One of these, growing more quickly than the rest, reaches the uppermost turn and applies its point closely to it (Bp). This is the male part or pollinodium. Conjugation takes place between it and the carpogonium ; the bounding membranes give way, and the contents coalesce. Thereupon from the lower part of the pollinodium and carpogonium spring new filaments, which increase rapidly in number and cling closely to the spiral (C) so as at length to cover it up completely. These tubular filaments subdivide transversely, and so an envelope of polygonal cells (D) is finally formed. This envelope is the perithecium, and it forms a hollow sphere (E w) con- taining the carpogonium. The cells multiply so as to fill up the cavity (F). Meanwhile numerous septa are formed in the carpo- gonium, and from the joints spring lateral branches (ascogenous hyphae) which ramify and subdivide (F as) between the surround- ing cells. Their terminal twigs form the asci (G) (whence the fructifying carpogonium is named the ascogonium). The asci are tubular, and in each of them eight spheres (ascospores) are developed. As the ascogenous filaments develope the ' packing cells' or pseudo- parenchyma of the perithecium disappear. Ultimately the asci also vanish, and we are left with a hollow receptacle filled with spores. When ripe these last are lenticular or biconvex (H). On germinating they again form a mycelium, which produces both conidia and perithecia. There is no true alternation of generations between the sexual and asexual varieties. 217. The commonest of all mould-fungi, Penicillium glaucum, developes in a similar way. It grows on the most meagre soils. Until lately the mycelium with its conidia was the only form of it which had been recognised. Brefeld showed however that it is an ascomycetous fungus allied to the Tuberaceae or truffles. The mycelium consists of jointed, much branched, uniform filaments. Some of these rise as conidiophores, which branch at the apex into sterigmata, and produce rows or chains of greenish- coloured conidia. Penicillium may pass through several generations all following this mode of propagation. But there is also a sexual mode. As in Eurotium a spiral female carpogonium and a male pollinodium are developed. In the former the germs of the new plants are produced. After fructification the carpogonium throws out thin sterile