[SECT. VI. 216 TUMOUES. small and fragile, have but little protoplasm, and enclose a rounded or slightly oval vesicular nucleus (Fig. 48 c). This nucleus seems more highly developed than it is in ordinary lymphoid cells. The intercellular substance is scanty, and fibro-granular in texture. The vessels appear as thin-walled channels between the groups of cells. In the case of an invaded muscle, such as that in the figure (Fig. 48), the tumour seems to consist of an aggregation of round-cells (Fig. 48 b c) seated in the intermuscular connective tissue. Lymphoid elements are not infrequently found mingled with the tumour-cells: their nuclei (Fig. 48 d) are easily dis- tinguished by the fact that they take a deeper staining than the other elements. A second variety of small-round-celled sarcoma is the so-called lymphosarcoma. It is a sarcoma whose structure somewhat resembles that of a lymphatic gland. There is a kind of reticular stroma (Fig. 49 a), made up in part of anastomosing ramifying cells (Fig. 49 b); and this contains a multitude of round-cells in its meshes. If a small piece of the tumour be first shaken up in a test-tube with some liquid, so that the cells drop away, the structure can then be easily made out under the microscope. Fig. 49. Section or lymphosarcoma from the nasal mucous membrane. a reticulum (the a to the left points to a b cells of the reticulum blood-vessel with subdividing cells) c round-cells The tumour has the same general appearance as the commoner small-round-celled variety. Both forms are highly malignant, partly because of their rapid growth, partly from their tendency to give rise to secondary growths, which may affect the entire body. Lymphosarcoma most commonly originates in lymphatic glands, and in the lymphadenoid tissue of the mucous membranes. It may however arise elsewhere. When it attacks a lymphatic gland, it may be distinguished from mere hyperplastic lymphoma by its rapid growth, and by its tendency to overpass the limits of the gland, and to form metastases.