30 [SECT. I. MALFORMATIONS. urinary bladder. The internal mucous surface of the bladder in this case appears externally, and is pressed forwards and everted by the intestines behind. The genital groove remains unclosed, and the external genitals are ill-developed. This is known as Inversio, Ectopia, or Ecstrophia vesicae. Clefts of the thoracic wall. If the fissure is small and merely affects the sternum, it is described as Fissura sterni: if it is wider, so that the heart is covered only by membrane and integu- ment and protrudes, it is called Ectopia cordis. The efficient causes of these imperfections of development are seldom demonstrable. It may be that they depend in part on morbid adhesions of the borders of the laminae laterales to the amnion. Very frequently they are found in individuals affected with malformations in other parts, such as the genitals or anus. See Buhl, Klinih der Geburtskunde von HecJcer und Buhl 1861 ; Wedl Wiener med. Jahrbuch 1863 ; Ahlfeld, Arch. f. Oyndk. v; Perls, Allg. Pathologie n, 1879. On intestinal diverticula see Lockwood, Brit. med. Journ. i, 1882; Roth, Virch. Arch. vol. 86. 10. Aplasia of the extremities and of the hip- and shoulder- girdles. Defects in the development of the limbs are by no means rare. Different classes are distinguished according to the degree of malformation. (1) Amelus. Limbs entirely wanting or replaced by wartlike stumps. Trunk generally well-formed. (2) Peromelus. All the limbs stunted. (3) Phocomelus. Limbs consisting merely of hands and feet, sessile upon the shoulders and pelvis. (4) Micromelus (Microbrachius, Micropus). Limbs regular in form, but abnormally small. (5) Abrachius and Apus. Absence of upj>er limbs, while lower are well-formed ; and vice versd. (6) Perobrachius and Peropus. Arms and thighs normal; forearms and hands, legs and feet malformed. (7) Monobrachius and Monopus. Absence of a single upper or lower limb. (8) Sympus, or Siren-monster. Lower limbs coalescent, being first rotated backwards so that the external surfaces come into contact. The pelvis is usually malformed, as also the external genitals, bladder, urethra, and anus. Feet may be wholly absent or represented by single toes (Sympus apus): or there may be one (S. monopus) or both feet (S. dipus) at the end of the undivided extremity. (9) Achirus and Perochirus. Absence or stunted growth of the entire hand or foot is seldom observed. More frequently we