CHAP. IX.] SIMPLE ATROPHY AND PIGMENTARY DEGENERATION. 75 the so-called atrophy of inaction and trophoneurotic atrophy should perhaps be classed as pathological. Atrophy of inaction occurs in organs that are subject to the direct influence of the nervous system, and perform their specific functions in obedience to nervous influence. Such are glands, nerves, and muscles. If a muscle or a gland be condemned to inaction for any length of time, it is apt to undergo atrophy. It is not unnatural to infer that the atrophy depends on the absence of functional activity in the cells, and to frame the hypothesis that nutrition and functional activity go hand in hand and fall off together. A typical instance of trophoneurotic atrophy is seen in the rapid disappearance of the muscles in cases where their proper nerves have been injured, or where there is disease of the anterior horns of grey matter in the cord. It appears that certain ganglion- cells in the anterior horns have a powerful influence on the nutrition of the muscles in connexion with them. The disappear- ance of these cells, or the severance of their connexion with the muscles, involves inevitably the atrojDhy of the latter. Leaving these cases out of account, we may fairly refer all other forms of premature atrophy to defective nutrition. The process of the atrophy is the same whatever be the particular factor underlying the deficiency. This factor may be general anaemia, local change in the nutrient vessels, defective assimilation, or any other disorder of the kind: but it can at most determine the site and extent of the atrophy, not the process. Atrophy of this kind, occasioned by diminished nutrition, is distinguished as passive atrophy. Atrophy consequent on pressure is brought about, partly by mechanical hindrance of the cell-functions, partly by direct injury to the tissue, partly by interference with the circulation. Cohnheim (Handbuch d. allgemeinen Pathologic) includes atrophy of inaction among the passive atrophies, and maintains that it depends on diminished blood-supply. It is not easy to believe that this explanation is in all cases adequate. Without undervaluing the importance of the blood-supply, there seems to be no objection to the theory that the assimilative power of an active working cell may be greater than that of one which is at rest.