CHAP. XXVII.] EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. CARCINOMA. 233 the tissue are certain to be encountered by the advancing growth, and when this happens the path of infective transport stands open. Destructive adenoma is a soft marrowy tumour, taking the form either of a papillary or fungous outgrowth, or more commonly of a level and extensive thickening of the mucous membrane. The new tissue frequently breaks down and ulcerates. The ulcers have a soft infiltrated base and raised rampart-like edges, or the surrounding tissue is beset with nodular growths. b. Carcinoma. 170. If we define carcinoma as a growth characterised by epithelial multiplication (Art. 166), and not agreeing with any normal glandular type, we must at the same time lay stress on the fact that this epithelial multiplication is no merely accessory or sub- ordinate feature. It is the essential and distinguishing character of the neoplasm. Simple non-typical multiplications of epithelium are by no means uncommon; but they are not necessarily to be interpreted as carcino- matous. Subepidermic granulomatous tumours of the skin (Art. 132 Fig. 37) will often exhibit in their superficial layers clusters and rolls and strings of epithelial cells altogether diverse from any normal mode of grouping; and the same may be observed in skin- wounds which are in process of repair by epidermic growth and multiplication. So too in glands altered by inflammation, and in fibrous tumours occurring in glands, the glandular epithelium may begin to multiply and lead to the formation of epithelial masses that are altogether non-typical or atypical in appearance. Formations of this kind are not to be classed with the carcinomata. They lack the power of growing indefinitely and of infiltrating the surrounding tissues. They are incapable of raising themselves to the rank of the independent tumour, that is nourished like a parasite at the expense of the organism, and invades the tissues to their destruction. They can only extend where a free surface is open to them, due either to antecedent inflammation or to the formation of a true tumour. In wounds or subepithelial granula- tions, these proliferous growths have no more significance than the covering of an abraded surface with new epithelium. The epithe- lium forms only in places where the underlying tissue is so arranged as to leave free surfaces or open fissures, and the process amounts, in a word, merely to the ' skinning-over' of internal surfaces. The mode in which true carcinoma developes and extends is quite different. The epithelial new-formation is not limited to free or bared surfaces; it actively invades the contiguous con- nective tissues. Thus we may have a cutaneous cancer or epithe- lioma, which consists essentially of cellular prolongations of the interpapillary promontories of the Malpighian layer, penetrating