39 CHAP. III.] DOUBLE MONSTROSITIES AND MALFORMATIONS. vary in significance according to their mode of origin. Some of them must be regarded as conditioned by mechanical influences. Others are demonstrably due to heredity. Others still are refer- able to atavism) or the tendency of a higher type to revert to the organisation of a lower. (1) Duplication in the limbs. Cleavage of an entire limb, without duplication in the limb-girdle, has not been observed in the human species. Duplication of hands or feet is very rare. On the other hand, the duplication of fingers or toes (polydactylism) is a very common occurrence. The additional member is sometimes a mere appendage of skin; in other cases it contains bones, and has the form of a perfect digit. The number of fingers on one hand may be as high as ten. Cleavage affecting the carpal or tarsal bones is rare. (2) Duplication of the mammary glands (Polymastia). This occurs not very infrequently, and in men as well as women. The supernumerary mamma may lie close beside the normal one; or it may be remote, having its seat on the abdomen, groin, or shoulder, at times even on the back. Double nipples are less often met with than supernumerary mammae. See Leichtenstern (Virch. Arch, vol 73), and Mitchell Bruce (Journ. of Anat. 1879). (3) Supernumerary bones and muscles. These are very common. Extra vertebrae may occur in any region of the spinal column. Connected with the coccyx they may give rise to a tail- like appendage, though all so-called tails are not referable to multiplication of vertebrae. Multiplication of the ribs (by the formation of cervical or lumbar ribs), and bifurcation of the ribs, are not infrequent. Multiplication of the teeth is no rare occurrence. On supernumerary vertebrae and ribs see Welcker (Arch./. Anat. 1881), Stbuthers (Journ. of Anat. 1875), and-Turner (Journ. of Anat. 1870). On so-called tails see Ecker (Arch.f. Anthrop. xi), and Leo Gerlach (Morphol. Jahrb. vi). (4) Duplication (or multiplication) of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. This is commonest in the cases of the spleen, pancreas, ureter, and pelvis of the kidney. It is rare in the lungs, ovaries, liver, kidneys, testes, and bladder. 18. Congenital hypertrophy, or excessive growth of indi- vidual parts. Abnormal enlargement of one side only has more than once been observed. Excessive size of the head without hydroce- phalus is rare, whether symmetrical or unilateral. Undue enlarge- ment of one limb or part of a limb is more common. A hand or foot, a finger or toe, may thus grow to an excessive degree and so give rise to very serious deformity. The symptoms of excessive growth are generally apparent at birth. Sometimes the effect