INTKODUCTION. 8 uterine disturbance it is to be distinguished from acquired defect, mutilation, malformation, or overgrowth. The latter conditions arise in virtue of injuries sustained by the organism after it has become independent of the mother. The question now arises, What are the special questions which fall to the lot of Pathological Anatomy in the investigation of morbid processes ? Disease is nothing but a phase of life, in which one or more of the physiological processes is running an abnormal course. Is it then possible that the problems of life in disease can hopefully be attacked by anatomical methods? The observations that can be made during life upon diseased tissues such as the skin, the epithelia, the eye, show that these methods are practicable; and the experience gained at the post-mortem table, from the microscope, or through actual experiment, confirms after death the conclusions drawn from the living subject. All these show that anatomical tissue-changes lie at the bottom of the morbid phenomena observed during life: and that these tissue- changes are for the most part still recognisable after death. In other words they supply the justification for our previous postu- late—that the diseases of man have always a local seat in some definite cell-group. Thus the primary and peculiar function of Pathological Anatomy is—to investigate with all possible exact- ness and detail the tissue-changes which are involved in the various forms of disease. The information gathered in this field is already plenteous and important. Formerly diseases were of necessity classified symptom- atologically; their names connoted certain groups of outward symptoms. Now, thanks to pathological anatomy, we are able to arrange them according to anatomical characteristics. We find this classification justified in practice by the constant recurrence of well-marked and specifically distinct anatomical changes in diseases whose whole course and character prove them to be in fact specifically distinct. It cannot be gainsaid that as yet Pathological Anatomy has not succeeded in supplanting the clinical or symptomatic order of ideas. It is not yet possible in all cases to connect the morbid action of this or that organ with definite anatomical changes. We still must use the terms ' epilepsy,'' diabetes,' to distinguish certain disorders ; but that only implies that we are not yet able to replace the clinical conception by an anatomical one. It by no means implies that the several diseases are not dependent upon local changes in some special tissue or cell-group. From the fact that we are sometimes unable to discover the seat of an affection we can only infer one of two things. Either the difficulties in the way of discovery are so great that we can only in certain favourable cases, not yet met with, succeed in overcoming them: or, that the tissue-change we are seeking eludes our optical appliances, inasmuch as it is not a change of gross