[SECT. VI. 250 TUMOURS. If we did not know that tumours may develope at the most various periods of life—nay, that many forms are wont to appear only in advanced age, it might perhaps suggest itself to look for their aetiological factors in the embryo—to regard them in fact as local malformations. But the peculiar modes of occurrence referred to, and the observation that tumours originate in tissues which before looked perfectly normal, would scarcely make us regard such an embryonic theory as very probable beforehand. Cohnheim has very recently propounded an embryonic hypo- thesis of another kind. We are not to refer the actual development of the tumour itself to the embryonic period, but are to attribute its appearance in later life to the persistence of germinal embryonic tissues in the otherwise mature organism (Cohnheim, AUg. Path. i). A tumour takes its rise in what we might call a belated rudiment—a focus of formative embryonic tissue, which has not been utilised in elaborating the normal tissue of the part—and so has lingered on unchanged. Cohnheim therefore defines a tumour as—an atypical new-formation starting in a latent embryonic rudiment. The tumour-germs, consisting as they do of embryonic cells, may be very small and so elude observation. It is even conceivable, he thinks, .that the germinal cells may be quite un- recognisable among the ordinary physiological elements of the part. They may linger on for a long time inactive. It is only when they are favoured by the external conditions —such as the supply of nutriment, and their relation to the surrounding tissues—that they begin to multiply and to form a tumour. In this way it becomes possible that a traumatic lesion may set up the active change. In most cases however the awakening impvdse is beyond our power to discover. We cannot deny that Cohnheim's hypothesis would explain satisfactorily many of the peculiarities of tumours. Those growths, for example, whose structure reminds us so strongly of earlier developmental stages of particular tissues, would be acquitted of their (at present) unaccountable heterology. It also tells in favour of the theory—that a class of tumours does actually exist, of which we can say with certainty that they date their origin from the embryonic stage. At the same time we may well question whether our knowledge of the subject justifies us in attributing an embryonic origin to all tumours, or whether we should accept the theory only with considerable limitations. Cohnheim bases his view mainly on the alignments—that many tumours have been shown to be hereditary; that many exist at birth or at least develope in infancy; that they show a preference for sites where in earlier developmental stages some complication of structure occurred, e.g. for the places where diverse epithelial formations pass one into the other (lips, anus, stomach, cervix uteri), or for parts where the entire process of development is highly complex (genital apparatus). Finally, he holds that the atypical structure of tumours generally is in favour of his account of them. It must be granted that these arguments speak strongly for the hypothesis.