RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IIL 66 however sharply defined when the section is stained, for the necrosed part is incapable of taking up colour. The cells are strikingly pale and transparent, and their nuclei are either gone, or swollen up and unstained. In later stages the outlines of the cells become blurred, the nuclei vanish, and the cell-contents are metamorphosed into a finely-granular fibrinous mass. Later still this mass disintegrates and is absorbed (Art. 115). If the infarct was originally haemor- rhagic,the effused blood, like the tissue-elements, is changed into a colourless granular, or it may be homogeneous, mass. Minute investigations into the nature of haeniorrhagic infarction have recently been made by Litten (Untersuchungen iiber den haem. Infarct Berlin 1879) and Guillebeau (Die Ilistologie d. haem. Jnfarctes, In. Diss. Berne 1880) . According to Litten, renal infarcts are generally anaemic, i. e. not accompanied by haemorrhage. Guillebeau on the contrary says that both renal and splenic infarcts are generally haeniorrhagic, but become very quickly decolorised. Ziegler inclines to the latter view, though he has examined recent infarcts in which he was unable to demonstrate either haemorrhage or its traces. 38. The so-called waxy degeneration of muscle (Zenker) is also an instance of coagulative necrosis. Muscle-fibre invariably coagulates after death, but generally preserves its striation. Under various influences however, as e.g. after bruising, forcible extension, raising of the temperature, or febrile disease, the muscle substance is here and there disintegrated, and the contractile myosin coagulates into a lustrous homogeneous mass (Fig. 2 b). This mass breaks up Pig. 2. Waxy degeneration or muscle. (From a case of typhoid fiver: x 250) a normal muscle-fibre b degenerate muscle-fibre broken up into flaky lumps c regenerative cells lying inside the sarcolemma d connective tissue infiltrated with cells into shining flaky lumps. To the naked eye muscles so affected have a dull semi-opaque lustre, and look not unlike the muscles of fish.