PARASITES. [SECT. VII. 290 If it be introduced into the tip of the ear it merely produces a plastic inflam- mation of the skin, and the animal does not die. Rabbits so inoculated are then protected for three or four weeks against any further inoculation with the same bacillus. There are therefore some bacterial diseases in which one attack protects against a subsequent one, as in the case of small-pox, measles, and scarlatina. But this does not hold true of all bacterial diseases. Koch and Carter found that a monkey inoculated with the spirilla of relapsing fever gained no immu- nity against a second inoculation. Semmer {Ccntralb. f. tried. Wiss. 48, 1880 and Virch. Arch. vol. 83) asserts that rabbits may be protected against septi- caemia by vaccination with bacteria heated to 55°C for fifteen minutes: Loffler repeated the experiments and obtained opposite results. Experi- ments with the Bacillus oedematis (Art. 206) were likewise negative. Bergmaxx has recently {Chirurgencongress 1882) made out that in all infective disease, and in all intoxication with unorganised ferments, the white blood-cells become dissolved in the blood. This produces greater viscidity and coagulability of the plasma. He refers to this cause the local congestions in the capillaries of the lungs and intestine, and the ecchymosea of the serous membranes observed in the affections named. 202. The infective diseases form a group distinguished by their markedly specific character and their special mode of origin. The specific character is manifested in this—that the disease runs a similar course in each individual attacked, conditioned solely by the nature of the morbific virus. As to the genesis of the disease, it is always referable to the passage into the organism of a poison from without. The infective diseases have been divided into miasmatic, contagious, and miasmo-contagious. In miasmatic disease the morbific virus is confined to certain localities, and developes outside the human body. When it passes into the body it sets up an affection which is not transmissible to other individuals. The malarious or intermittent fevers are classed as miasmatic. In contagious disease the seat of the virus is in the affected organism. From this it is transmissible to others, either through the air directly, or by means of bodies acting as carriers (fomites), or by actual contact. Instances of contagious disease are scarlatina, small-pox, measles, vaccinia, typhus, diphtheria, glanders, syphilis, &c. In miasmo-contagious disease the actual virus is derived from without, but the germs from which the virus developes must be furnished by a previous case of the disease. Of this kind are cholera, dysentery, yellow fever, and typhoid. In the case of the last it is probable, or at least possible, that the virus may be also derived from previously uninfected localities; in other words, that it may originate as a pure miasm. 203. Some of these diseases, especially the epidemic pesti- lences or plagues, have from ancient times been suspected to be due to organised poisons. The suspicion has now and again been re-expressed; but it is only within the last twenty years that, in a fewr instances at least, the fact has been demonstrated.