PARASITES. [SECT. VII. 282 It is due to the absorption of products of bacterial decomposition formed in a wound contaminated by bacteria (Art. 204). This is especially apt to happen when necrosed tissue exists in the Wound, for this affords the bacteria a suitable soil for their development. The poisonous action of putrid matters is fully discussed by Hiller in Die Lehre von der Faulniss Berlin 1879. He gives full references to the literature of the subject. Hiller lays special stress on the fact that in the septic process it is not simply the bacteria themselves that do mischief, it is the products of their action which act so as profoundly to alter or even to destroy outright the tissues exposed to them. If the infection become - generalised, it is almost always due to intoxication of the system with unorganised chemical substances. Pandm's paper just alluded to is in Virch. Arch. vol. 60; Bergmann's is a work called Das putride Gift und die putride Intoxication Dorpat 1866. Wolff (Virch. Arch. vol. 81) has lately taken up the question. On the absorption of putrid matters by the alimentary canal see Salkowski Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 46, 1876, and Berichte d. chem. Gesells. x, 1877 ; Nencki and Brieger, ibidem ; Brieger, Zeitsch. f. phys. Chem. II, Zeitsch. f. klin. Med. in ; Bollinger, Ueber Fleischvergiftung, intestinale Sepsis, und Abdominal-typhus, Zur Aetiol. d. Infection. Munich 1881. It is possible that harmless colonies of bacteria may become dangerous if they are removed from their normal seat to other regions. Thus the saliva, when it contains bacteria, may excite violent inflammation if it reaches the bronchi or alveoli of the lungs. 198. Pathogenous bacteria have the power of settling, not merely in the ingesta and secretions or in dead tissue, but also in living tissue. This happens chiefly in the mucous membranes and in the lungs. The uninjured skin is protected against invasion by the horny epidermis. Many of the bacteria can settle in perfectly healthy mucous membranes. In the case of others we must imagine that they do not find a proper soil for their development, unless the mucous membrane is injured or altered. Of course injury or alteration of this kind may serve to make the outer skin, or any other accessible tissue, the starting-point of a bacterial invasion (wound-infection). All that is necessary is that a bacterium should reach a spot that affords the conditions for its development. If this occur, it multiplies and forms colonies or swarms. These may, according to the species of the fungus and the nature of its soil, remain in aggregation forming heaps or masses, or may spread through the tissues. Such a settlement is never without effect on the affected tissues. The bacteria may force their way into the substance of the constituent elements, and especially into the tissue-cells, which are sometimes found to be crammed with bacteria. The effect of the invasion is not always at once apparent, even under the microscope. The cells attacked by the fungi often appear quite uninjured: in other instances they are seen to be altered. The epithelial cells swell up (Fig. 76 c) and liquefy, or degenerate into flaky homogeneous lumps, or turbid denucleated masses. Often they break down into granular detritus. The