CHAP. X.] CLOUDY" SWELLING AND DROPSICAL DEGENERATION. 77 shows that the process consists in the formation of free granules in the substance of the affected cells, which may, for example, be those oft he renal epithelium, of the liver, or of the heart-muscle. These free granules are to be regarded, from their microchemical reactions, as albuminoid bodies : they are soluble in acetic acid and insoluble in alkalies or ether. Their presence gives the cell a turbid or cloudy appearance, and its normal form and structure quickly disappear. Thus in cloudy swelling of the renal epithelium (Fig. 6), the cells lose their longitudinal markings and the processes which nonnally project into the lumen of the tubule (a). The cell as it swells becomes rounder, and dark granules appear within it (b, c). The process depends on a degeneration of the cell-protoplasm. The cell becomes infiltrated with liquid, and a partial separation of its solid and liquid constituents takes place. The degenerative process often ceases when it has reached a certain stage, and the cell returns to its former normal condition. In other cases, the cell-substance perishes and breaks up into granular detritus. Frequently the process is associated with fatty degeneration (Art. 50). Cloudy or granular degeneration is of very common occurrence. It is found in the parenchymatous organs, such as the liver, kidneys, and heart, in most cases of infectious disease ; but chiefly in scarlet fever, typhoid fever, small-pox, erysipelas, diphtheria, septicaemia, &c. The affected organs have a cloudy, dull, often greyish look: in the severer cases they look as if they had been boiled. They contain an abnormally small quantity of blood, and are doughy in consistence. The minuter structure of the organ is blurred or altogether destroyed. There is a certain morbid change in connective-tissue cells which may be classed under this head. It is frequently observed in oedematous or inflamed connective tissue. The affected cells swell up, and dark spherules form in the nucleus as well as in the cell-protoplasm. These spherules, with which the cells are often tightly crammed, are distinguished by their power of taking up an intense colour when stained, especially with aniline dyes; in this they behave like micrococci. Their significance is not understood, though their formation may probably be regarded as evidence of a retrogressive change. 49. The term dropsical degeneration fairly describes a morbid change observed chiefly in epithelial cells. They imbibe liquid and become sodden and swollen. The process is near akin to cloudy swelling and degeneration, though the changes in the dropsical cells are of a somewhat peculiar nature. The imbibed liquid causes the cell to appear translucent (Fig. 7 e). The gi'anules of the protoplasm are' pushed asunder, and often crowded towards the periphery; so that the cell comes to resemble somewhat a vegetable cell (/and g). It becomes at the same time vacuolated, the spherical vacuoles containing clear liquid. The nucleus also swells up, and at length appears as a distended vesicle with clear