CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 297 demonstrating the presence of a bacillus (B. leprae) in the nodes and tubercles of leprosy. The constancy with which it occurs in leprous patches would indicate that it is the exciting cause of the disease (Art. 131). Klebs and Tommasi-Crudeli have likewise found a bacil- lus (B. malariae) in cases of malarious or intermittent fever, and have experimentally investigated its properties. They assert that it is to be met with in the soil and air of malarious districts, and can be demonstrated in the blood of affected patients. The significance of the bacillus has not however been fully made out. In cases of typhoid fever Klebs and Eberth have discovered a bacillus lodging in recent infiltrations of the mesenteric and intestinal glands. Koch and Friedlaender have verified the discovery, but the life-history of the bacillus is as yet unknown. Koch has recently made comprehensive researches into the aetiology of tuberculosis. He finds that bacilli (B. tuberculosis) are constantly present, not merely in tubercles, but in various diffuse inflammatory infiltrations and granulomatous growths, and in the sputa of phthisical patients (Fig. 80). He is also able to Fig. 80. bacillus tuberculosis in phthisical sputum. (Stained by GIBBES'S method with magenta and methylene-blue: the pus-cells appear blue, the bacilli crimson: x 800 circa) cultivate the bacilli in gelatine impregnated with blood-serum, and to produce tuberculosis with striking success by inoculation with the cultivated bacilli (Art. 127). It is probable that the bacillus is unable to develope outside the animal body; and that it forms spores within the body of its host (Art. 127). (1) Anthrax (splenic fever, malignant pustule, charbon). The Bacillus anthracis was first discovered by Pollender in 1849 (Casper's Viertelj. Yin, 1855) and Brauell (Virch. Arch. vol. 11, 1857). Davaine was the first to recognise it as the specific virus of splenic fever (Comptes Rendus vols. 57 (1863) and 77 (1873); Archiv. gdn. Feb. 1868). Since then many