9 INTRODUCTION. structure, but one of chemical constitution and metabolism. This latter must at any rate be true of a vast number of trifling functional disturbances, whose transitory nature and slight in- tensity almost exclude the idea of a recognisable physical alteration of structure. The various morbid tissue-changes which allow us in some measure to infer from the dead body the functional disorders experienced in life are either macroscopic or microscopic. A skilled eye can gather a great deal by mere inspection: and in this way a large number of diseases can be diagnosed on the post-mortem table. Still it very often happens that naked-eye inspection is insufficient: and it would in reality be much oftener so, if in previous similar cases the microscope had not already yielded us necessary information touching the minuter changes and the processes they involve. Morbid changes have their seat in the cells, and in their deriva- tives the intercellular substances. It is therefore indispensable to a right understanding of these changes to call in the help of the microscope, and with it follow out the cellular and intercellular processes. As a fact the microscope has in countless cases thrown an utterly unexpected light upon these processes, and the enormous advance of pathological anatomy in the last quarter of a century or so has been brought about simply by the exact attention bestowed upon them. VlRCHOW it was who inaugurated this new method and established it on a firm basis. Microscopic examination of cellular and intercellular changes, in connexion with naked-eye post-mortem examination, still remains the foundation on' which our knowledge of disease and its nature must be based. The amoeba, which under changed conditions of life becomes languid and finally dies, undergoes before the last event certain visible changes. These enable the observer to follow the process of dissolution if not completely at least through all its more im- portant stages. It is plain that a simple experiment of this kind, made on a single cell, can exhibit but a fraction of the normal and pathological processes that take place among the cells, cell-colonies, and cell-derivatives of complex organisms. The cellular processes which underlie the various diseases are extremely manifold and extremely diverse. He who tries for the first time to penetrate deeper into their nature, and to educe the significance of the changes he observes, will hardly be able to accomplish at once his designs and desires. He must first become familiar with the essential facts of the subject, which have been gathered and sifted out by the fundamental investigations of VlRCHOW and the labours of Foerster, von Kecklinghausen, Klebs, Cohnheim, Eberth, Rindfleisch and many others. The outcome of their labours is—that pathological processes fall into four great groups. If we follow the morbid processes in the