CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 273 eft'ect on spores. The following substances even in dilute solution have a restraining influence on bacterial development—allylic alcohol; oils of mustard, peppermint, turpentine,, and cloves; thymol; chromic, picric, hydrochloric, and salicylic acids; quinine. The effect is perceptible in solutions of 1:300,000 for oil of peppermint, of 1:800 for quinine, of 1:75,000 for oil of turpentine. All disinfecting agents should be used in aqueous solution. In alcohol or oil they are either inactive or enfeebled. Bacillus-spores still retain their power to germinate after lying for months in absolute alcohol. In water and in glycerine they may lie for weeks undestroyed. Bacteria become less able to resist heat in presence of small quantities of acid. They are made more resistent by alkalies. For the effect of light on their development see Engelmann, Rev. intemat. Sci. biol. 1882. 191. Influence on the nutrient liquid. In the first place the bacteria, as they grow and multiply, withdraw from the nutrient liquid the elements they require for building up their cells. These elements are chiefly nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, as also the mineral constituents mentioned in Art. 188. In the next place they set up marked chemical changes in the nutrient liquid. It is bacteria which superinduce putrid decomposition in albuminoid bodies; they transform sugar into lactic acid (as in soured milk); lactic acid into butyric acid (as when sourkrout ferments, or butter becomes rancid): sugar into a gum-like slime (as in ' slimy' or ' long' wine) ; and alcohol into acetic acid. Large quantities of material may in this way be very rapidly transformed. When albuminoids undergo putrid decomposition, we have formed peptones and similar bodies; a certain putrid principle or poison (Pantjm), and bodies resembling ferments; sepsin (Bergmann and Schmiedeberg) ; nitrogenous bases, like leucin and tyrosin; amines like methylamine, ethylamine, propylamine; fatty acids, like formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, valerianic acid, palmitic and stearic acids, lactic acid, succinic acid, &c.; aromatic matters, indol, phenol, cressol, pyrocatechin, hydroquinone, hydroparacuminic acid, and paroxyphenylacetic acid (von Nencki, Salkowski, Brieger); and lastly sulphuretted hydrogen, ammonia, carbonic anhydride, and water. These pro- ducts are the result partly of hydration, partly of reduction, and partly of oxidation. The immediate cause of the process is unknown. Naegeli (Die niederen Pilze 1877), Pasteur, Lister, and others regard the decomposition as the direct result of the vegetation of the bacteria. Decomposition and fungus are inseparable: the one ceases when the other is removed. Processes of this nature, set up by bacteria, are best distinguished as fermentations. Considered with respect to their property of setting up fermen- tation, bacteria are often described as ' formed' or ' organised' ferments. Bacteria have also the power of setting free certain substances which have a decomposing action like themselves, but are capable of separation from them, and are known as ' unor- M. 18