330 [SECT. VIT. PARASITES. muscle-trichinae. At first they are only enclosed by the evacuated sarcolemma. Afterwards a cyst is formed, consisting partly of a chitinous secretion of the animal, partly of hyperplastic fibrous tissue. The intestinal trichinae live but a short time (5 to 8 weeks). The muscle-trichinae on the other hand may live for a very long time, perhaps indeed for a time limited only by the death of their host. After a while calcareous salts are generally deposited within the cyst; this gives the cyst a lustrous white appearance by reflected light, and a dark or turbid appearance by transmitted light. If for any reason the trichina dies, the contents of the capsule become calcified. Trichinae are met with in man, in the pig, cat, rat, mouse, hamster, pole-cat, fox, marten, badger, hedgehog, and racoon. By feeding on trichinous flesh, muscle-trichinae may be acquired by rabbits, guinea-pigs, sheep, dogs, &c. Human beings are infected by eating uncooked pork. Trichinosis in man is attended with very various symptoms. Intestinal catarrh follows upon the introduction of the trichinous flesh into the alimentary tract. The invasion of the muscles is marked by swelling, oedema, partial paralyses, and not uncommonly fever. The symptoms are at their height in the fourth or fifth week. Death not unfrequently ensues. The violence and gravity of the symptoms depend generally on the number of trichinae which have entered the muscles. The trichinae are found most abundantly in the diaphragm, intercostal, cervical, and laryngeal muscles; they are least abundant in the muscles of the limbs. They are usually crowded together at the points of attachment of the muscle to its tendon. The worm was first discovered by Paget at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in 1834 ; see Lancet 1, 1866. Owen named and described it shortly after- wards. The literature of trichinosis is very abundant: we can only refer to a few of the chief works on the subject. Owen, Zool. Soc. Trans. 1835 ; Zenker, Virch. Arch. vol. 18, Arch. f. klin. Med. vm; Virchow, Die Lehre von den Trichinen Berlin 1866 ; Leuckart, Die Parasiten des Menschen; Heller, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vol. in ; Cobbold, Entozoa 1869 ; Glazier, Report on Trick. Washington 1881 ; Wendt, Chronic Affect, following Trick, Neio York Med. Rec. 1879. For further references see Cobbold, Human Parasites 1882. 234. Filaria (Dracunculus) medinensis, (Fig. 97) or Guinea- worm, is a fine thread-like worm from 60 to 100 cm. in length. Only the female is known. The anterior end is rounded; the posterior terminates in a pointed tail curved over ventrally. The outer covering consists of a firm cuticle thickened at the head-end into a kind of shield. The intestine is narrow, and there is no anus. The gravid uterus occupies nearly the whole of the body- cavity. The embryos have no envelope; they have a stout cuticle and an acuminate tail. They use as intermediate hosts certain small crustaceans (Gyclops) that inhabit drinking-water, and so