224 TUMOURS. [SECT. VI. fact that actual mucous tissue (like that in Fig. 56) is occasionally found mingled with the hyaline masses tells in favour of this view. • This form of cylindroma may therefore he regarded as a peculiar variety of myxosarcoma, in which the mucoid change is chiefly confined to the vessels, and in which the formation of new vessels is an essential feature. To emphasise the important part played by the vessels in this neoplasm, we might call it angiosarcoma myxomatodes. Such growths have been found principally in the lacrimal glands, salivary glands, and in the brain. They occur however elsewhere, as in the lip, placenta, adipose tissue, &c. Cylindroma is a term due to Billroth {Untersuch. iiber die Entwick. d. Blutgefdsse 1856). Such tumours, characterised by gelatinous masses and reticuia, have since then been very variously interpreted. Koster described them as cancroids {Virch. Arch. vol. 40); Sattler (Ueb. d. sogen. Cylindrome Berlin 1874) as alveolar sarcomata, in which the cell-masses derived by proliferation from the adventitia had been transformed into hyaline cylinders; Ewetzky {Virch. Arch. vol. 69) as plexiform angiosarcomata with hyaline degeneration of the fibrous stroma,- or of the adventitia of the vessels. R. Maier (Virch. Arch. vol. 14, and Lehrb. d. allg. path. Anat.) found cylindro- mata in the placenta and dura mater: he regarded the presence of an abundance of hyaline mucous tissue persisting for a long period unchanged as characteristic of the tumour. This tissue may develope out of cells or out of intercellular substance, fibrous tissue, cartilage, or tunica adventitia. Various tumours have been described as cylindromata which certainly do not all belong to the same species. A number of them belong to the sarcomata. Within this group we may, as we have said, distinguish two main forms; first, the combined sarcoma and myxoma, and secondly, the sarcoma with hyaline or mucoid degeneration extending to the cells, but chiefly affecting the sheaths of the vessels. Between these two, however, many transitional forms are found. I. Mixed tumours of the connective-tissue group. 164. We have already referred to various tumours in which combinations of different tissues present themselves. In one sense no tumour can be said to consist of a single kind of tissue only. In a new growth of any size we must always have new vessels, for instance. And tumours whose characteristic element is not fibrous tissue—such as chondromata, osteomata, sarcomata, myo- mata, and myxomata—always contain a very considerable quantity of fibrous tissue as an accessory. We do not speak of such cases as examples of mixed tumours, because the accessory tissue is as it were put out of sight by the characteristic element: it is entirely subordinate. But if the second tissue comes into the foreground and affects the texture of the growth in a perceptible way, we must indicate this in our terminology. This is done by applying to the name of one neoplastic tissue the name of the other as a qualifying term; or by simply combining the two names into a compound word. Thus, as in gliomata and fibromata, the blood-vessels may be remarkable by their abundance, size, and dilatations; we then speak of the growth