niAP. v.] OEDEMA AND DROPSY. 40 M. 4 When an oedematous kidney, therefore, is cut into, very little liquid flows from it; but the cut surface looks moist and glistening. The lung can hold a very considerable quantity of liquid. Owing to its narrow accommodation in the thorax, it cannot of course become very greatly distended. But it has within it a multitude of air-cavities, and these fill with liquid when oedema invades it. From these the liquid, generally frothy with air- bubbles, may be squeezed when the lung is cut. The amount of blood contained in oedematous tissues is variable, and so therefore are their colour and appearance. Cavities which are the seat of a dropsical effusion contain a greater or less quantity of a clear, generally pale-yellowish, seldom quite colourless, liquid. It has an alkaline reaction, and at times curds of fibrin may be found in it (Art. 35). Compressible organs situate in the dropsical cavity may be flattened, and the cavity itself enlarged. If the effusion of liquid be general throughout the body we speak of it as general dropsy: if limited to the abdominal cavity it is called ascites. 24. Three varieties of oedema may be distinguished, according to their mode of origin: these are—the oedema Of engorgement, inflammatory oedema, and hydraemic oedema. The oedema of engorgement, as the name implies, depends upon a disturbance of the circulation. If from any cause the outflow of blood from the veins is hindered, the blood tends to accumulate in the capillaries and venules (Art. 21). If the degree of obstruction exceeds a certain limit, the plasma seeks a lateral exit and escapes from the vessels. The amount of liquid thus escaping is pro- portionate to the discrepancy existing between the inflow and the outflow. The escaped liquid is always poor in albumen, poorer even than the normal lymph. It contains however a certain proportion of red blood-cells, depending on the intensity of the engorgement. The immediate consequence of increased transudation is an increased flow through the lymphatics. Often enough this may be quite sufficient to convey away all the liquid which escapes. If it is insufficient the liquid collects in the tissues and the result is oedema or dropsy. Obstruction to the outflow through the lymphatics does not usually bring about oedema; direct experiments have demonstrated this. In the first place, the lymphatics of most parts of the body possess ample anastomoses, so that it is not easy for a stagnation of the lymph to occur. Even when the thoracic duct is occluded collateral channels may be opened up and the circulation restored. Furthermore, when in a limb, for example, the whole of the lymphatic outlets have been closed, if no more than the normal amount of transudation from the blood-vessels goes on, no oedema