CHAP. XXII.] LATER STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. CICATRISATION. 153 borders of the formative cells (d) there grow out fine fibrillae, which unite with those of the neighbouring cells. The direction and extent of the fibrous strands thus produced are independent of the original form and disposition of the formative cells. The run of the fibres is generally in the same direction for considerable lengths. When the fibrillae have reached a certain degree of definiteness and strength the process of fibrillation ceases, and the remaining cells with their nuclei remain as fixed connective-tissue cells (e). They lie along the surface of the fibrous bundles. The process is thus completed: granulation-tissue has become cicatri- cial tissue. The formation of new vessels starts as soon as the first forma- tive cells are developed. It proceeds rapidly, and even in a day or two multitudes of vascular loops are already produced. They bring the granulations the nutriment they need, and supply cells to fill the vacancies occasioned by absorption of the first leucocytes. The only part taken by the epithelioid cells in vascularisation is—that they serve to strengthen the thin-walled new capillaries, by dis- posing themselves along the outer surface of the vessels. It is possible that fibroblasts may now and then take part in the forma- tion of new vessels. This they may do by attaching themselves to the budding off-shoots, and thus assuming the form of buds them- selves. By excavation of their contents they are then converted into permeable channels. Giant-cells, when they are present, seem to play no special part in the transformation of the granulations. They form fibrous tissue in the same manner as the other fibroblasts. Ziegler has observed the process of scar-formation from granulation-tissue, both in ordinary granulations and by the cover-glass method. The latter yields preparations which are better than any sections, inasmuch as all the cells and cell-structures remain in situ: there is no possibility of disintegration or disturbance of the natural relations. Tillmann's (loc. cit.) observations agree with Ziegler's. The assertion is often made (Billroth's Surgical Pathology, Rindfleisch's Pathological Histology) that granulation-tissue passes into spindle-celled tissue. This is only partially the case. Spindle-cells are formed often enough, but the cells are just as often of many diverse shapes. The granulations, when they are first formed, are nourished by the plasma which escapes from the existing vessels. Thiersch has shown that the spaces in which this circulates among the granulations may be injected from the blood-vessels. This mode of nutrition is however inadequate for the complete formation of the embryonic tissue; new vessels are therefore required. Ziegler (loc. cit.) and Brodowski (Virch. Arch. vol. 63) have described a special relation of the giant-cells to the process of vascularisation, but this is no longer maintained. 110. The constructive processes taking place in the wound are completed when the cicatricial fibrous tissue is formed. The sub- sequent changes are limited to a certain amount of shrinking or contraction in the new tissue, and the suppression of some of the new blood-vessels. The scar, which from its vascularity is at first decidedly redder than its surroundings, begins to pale; and at