CHAP. XXI.] EARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. EXUDATION. 139 This escaped liquid is comparatively rich in albumen, and thus differs essentially from the exudation which follows upon simple vascular engorgement. Moreover it coagulates readily, especially when it is effused on the surface of the mesentery. This description of the inflammatory process as observed in the mesentery applies also to that produced elsewhere, as in the frog's tongue, by caustics. In the latter case the process is not observed in the cauterised piece (which is in fact dead), but in its neighbourhood. Thoma (Virch. Arch. vol. 74) has shown that the process in warm-blooded animals is identical with that in cold-blooded animals. W. Addison (Tram. Prov. Med. Ass. 1842—5) observed the escape of the white blood-cells from the vessels so early as 1842. Waller (Phil. Mag. vol. 29) described the phenomenon more fully in 1846. The discovery was however completely forgotten until Cohnheim made it anew in 1867. Caton (Journ. Anat. Phys. 1871) showed that the white cells escape even from healthy vessels, at least in the amphibia. The peripheral disposition of the white blood-cells is a purely mechanical phenomenon (Weigert, Article Entziindung, Realencyclopadie der ges. Heil- kunde). It was first observed by Williams (Gulstonian Led. 1841). Schkla- rewsky (Pfliig. Arch. vol. 1) has shown that a similar effect is produced when a slow stream of liquid, containing fine powders of various densities in suspension, is made to pass through a narrow tube. When the stream flows at a certain rate the lighter particles cling to the periphery, the heavier ones are hurried on by the axial current. This is what happens in the case of blood. When the current is slowed to a certain extent, the white cells go to the periphery : when it becomes still slower (as in engorgement) the red cells go there also. (See also Appert, Virch. Arch. vol. 71; Hamilton, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. vol. xi). The chemical composition of inflammatory exudations and inflammatory lymph has been investigated by Hoppe-Seyler (Virch. Arch. vol. 9), Reuss (Deutsch. Arch.f. klin. Med. xxrv), F. A. Hoffmann (Virch. Arch. vol. 78), and Lassar (Virch. Arch. vol. 69). 97. The effects of the process just described are easy to follow. The inflamed tissue becomes red, swollen, and hot: we have the inflammatory flush, and the inflammatory exudation or infiltration. The pain felt is referable to pressure, tension, or chemical irritation, acting on the sensory nerves in the tissue. It is plain, too, that the function of the part must be injuriously affected: the accumulation of exuded matter and the imperfect and disordered nutrition of the part are enough to account for that. The vascular disturbance is beyond doubt the most important and most characteristic factor in the entire process of inflammation. The other tissue-changes involved are not to be overlooked or undervalued; but it is the disturbances in the circulation which give inflammation its special character, and determine its course. The question as to the essential nature of inflammation is thus almost reduced to the question of the causa- tion of these vascular disturbances. The slowing of the blood-current, the dilatation of the vessels, the peripheral disposition of the white blood-cells, the migration of these from capillaries and veins, and the migration of the red cells from the capillaries, are all of them referable to a molecular alteration in the vessel-walls (Samuel). Mere paralytic