CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. TUBERCLE. 175 the peritoneum, again, there are now and then found tuberculoid nodules; but they have probably nothing whatever to do with tuberculosis as a disease. While the domain of tubercular eruptions is on one hand somewhat wider than that of tuberculosis, on the other hand the domain of tuberculosis goes beyond that of tubercular eruptions. In other words, there may be tuberculosis without isolated tubercles. It not infrequently happens that in the course of tuberculous disease inflammatory patches are formed, consisting of diffuse continuous granulations in which no tubercles can be detected. These patches must nevertheless be acknowledged to be tuberculous : the clinical course of the process, and the life-history of the new inflammatory tissue, indicate this; while tubercles may actually be developed in later stages of the same affection. In such cases it may be hard to determine whether the process is really tuberculous; especially in organs like the lungs where the usual inflammatory changes are at all times apt to make the recognition of tubercle a difficult matter. Experimental inoculation, or the detection of the specific virus (Art. 127), can alone settle the question. As regards the latter test we may expect that the near future will bring us much additional information. It is fortu- nate that these ambiguous cases are not very numerous. Although therefore the anatomical notion of tubercle and the clinical notion of tuberculosis do not precisely correspond throughout their full extension, they do correspond in the vast majority of cases. It is a rule almost without exception—that tuberculosis is distin- guished microscopically and on the post-mortem table by the presence of tubercles. Much confusion has arisen in the discussions on tuberculosis from the assumption that the production of a nodular or tubercidar eruption in an animal is necessarily the same as the production of tuberculosis. The result of the assumption has been, that observers have fancied they have induced tuberculosis in animals by the introduction of all sorts of foreign bodies. The diagnosis is not to be based on the presence of nodules simply: the life-history of the nodules and the general course of the whole process are also of essential importance (H. Martin, Arch, de Phys. 1881). 127. We are now able to give a definite answer to the second question raised in the last article—What is the nature of the tuberculous virus ? At the meeting of the Berlin Physiological Society held on the 24th of March, 1882, Dr K. Koch communicated some result of his researches on tuberculosis, which constituted a distinct advance in our knowledge of its aetiology. He announced that the tuberculous virus is a special bacillus (Bacillus tuberculosis, Art. 206). Its length is about a third of the diameter of a red blood-cell, and its breadth one-fifth to one-sixth of its length. Individual bacilli contain clear bright spores. The bacilli are chiefly found in fresh tubercles, more sparingly in older ones. Some of them lie within the cells and