">0 ANOMALIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD. [SECT. II. is produced. The blood-vessels themselves have the power of taking up again the lymph they have produced. If the thoracic duct be completely occluded and no collaterals are opened up, then oedema is the result; it takes the form of ascites. At the same time the larger lymphatics become greatly distended with accumu- lated lymph. Though lymphatic engorgement alone is inadequate to produce oedema, it may possibly increase an oedema which has already been produced by increased transudation from the blood-vessels. 25. The quantity and the nature of the liquid which escapes from the capillaries and veins depend not only on the intravascular pressure and the resistances to the flow, but also to a great extent on the character and condition of the vessel-wall. Alterations in the amount of transudation may thus be referable, not to disturbance of the circulation, but to changes in the vessel-wall, and especially in their endothelial lining. The vessel-wall may in fact be made more permeable for the corpuscular as well as for the liquid con- stituents of the blood by various causes. One of these is long- standing engorgement, involving incomplete renewal of the blood- supply to the vessel. More serious causes of injury are persistent ischaemia, imperfect oxygenation, chemical changes in the blood, very high or very low temperatures, and traumatic lesions. What the exact injuries are which these bring about we are not as yet able to say; but it may fairly be imagined that they amount to a loosening of the connexions between the endothebal cells of the intima (Arts. 96—98). It is in virtue of such alterations in the vessels that inflammatory and hydraemic oedema are produced. As regards inflammatory oedema no doubt can exist that it originates in some vascular change. It occurs as an independent affection, in the form of a more or less local and circumscribed swelling with dropsical effusion: but it may also, as a secondary phenomenon, accompany other processes, like severe inflammation. In the latter case it is often characterised as collateral oedema. Inflammatory oedema is distinguished from the oedema of engorge- ment by the fact that in the former the exudation is very much richer in albumen and white blood-cells: it is also common for coagulation to take place in the dropsical tissues. Hydraemic or cachectic oedema is very near akin to inflam- matory oedema. It was formerly believed that hydraemia, in which the blood is impoverished of its solid constituents, and hydraemic plethora, or over-dilution of the blood with water, might directly give rise to increased transudation from the vessels. It was conceived that the vessel-wall acted like other animal membranes, through which liquids poor in albumen filter more readily than liquids rich in albumen. This is incorrect. Cohnheim and his pupils have shown that the vessel-wall is not to be regarded as a dead membrane; it is a living organ. When hydraemia is arti- ficially produced it is not followed by oedema. Even hydraemic