100 KETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. EH. Laycock {Med. chir. Review i, 1861) discusses and classifies the various forms of morbid pigmentation : he gives mil references to previous papers on the subject. Gussenbauer has lately attempted (Virch. Arch. vol. 63) to refer the production of melanin in pigmented tumours to a modification of the colouring- matter of the blood. He thinks the blood-vessels of the tumour become here and there thrombosed ; the colouring-matter of the blood escapes from them by diffusion, saturates the tissue, and is ultimately precipitated in granular form. Langhans (Virch. Arch. vol. 49) had previously sought to derive the pigment of tumours from cells containing blood-corpuscles (Art. 68). According to Kunkel (Sitzungsb. der phys. med. Gesell. Wiirzburg 1881), it is possible to isolate from melanotic tumours a pigment containing iron. This argues that the pigment is derived from the blood ; but we cannot as yet say by what process it is produced. It is not related to haematin, bilirubin, or hydrobilirubin, as the spectroscope shows. It seems doubtful whether the escape of the colouring-matter from the blood-vessels always occurs in the way described by Gussenbauer. The diffused staining of individual cells may perhaps suggest that the colouring-matter first infiltrates the cell, and then breaks up into granules. 68. Haematogenous pigments are such as are demonstrably derived from the colouring-matter of the blood. They generally originate in blood which has escaped from the vessels. More rarely the change to pigment occurs in blood which is still circulating. As is well-known, the colour-changes recognisable by the eye take place very quickly in small extravasations as well as large. In the skin, such extravasations become first brown, then blue, then green, then yellow. Where small haemorrhages have occurred in the deeper tissues, such as the peritoneum, pleura, or lungs, we find even long afterwards brown, or grey, or black spots and patches. Larger haemorrhages (apoplexies) into the substance of the brain or lungs take on after a time a rusty brown colour; and still later leave only a dirty yellow or yellowish brown staining. All these colour- changes correspond to definite chemical and physical transformations of haemoglobin. Wherever in the tissues or in a cavity of the body a haemorrhage may have occurred, there ensues a series of changes in the escaped blood of which the following are the most important. One part of the blood, including red cells as well as plasma, may be re-absorbed by the lymphatics and carried off unchanged. Another portion of the corpuscles may become in a way dissolved; their haemoglobin diffuses from them into the surrounding tissues, and the pale residual stroma breaks up and disappears. It is this diffused and altered colouring-matter (or haematin) which gives rise to the colour-changes in cutaneous extravasations, as it passes through various transformations. The transformed pigments (which are similar to the biliary colouring-matters) are partially re-absorbed and at length excreted in the urine (urobilinuria): another part crystallises in the tissues, and forms the orange or ruby-red rhombic tablets and needles known as haematoidin-crystals (Fig. 18 B). These are very frequently found as the residue of old