210 [SECT. VI. TUMOURS. » Diss. Paris 1867; Gjorgewic, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xii; Reichel, Virch. Arch. vol. 46; Wegner, Langenbeck's Arch. f. klin. Chir. xx; Pinner, Centralb. f. Chir. 12, 1880; Pospelow, Vierteljahrs. f. Derm. u. Syph. 1879; Hebra and Kaposi, Diseases of the Skin (Syd. Soc.) vol. in; Nieden, Virch. Arch. vol. 90. h. Myoma. 153. Myoma is a tumour consisting essentially of new- formed muscular fibres. It occurs only in certain parts of the body. If the fibres are non-striated the tumour is described as a leiomyoma, if striated as a rhabdomyoma. Leiomyoma (or levicellular myoma) is of frequent occurrence in the uterus, less frequent in the muscular coats of the intestine. It takes the form of a spherical nodulated growth, not unlike a fibroma. The smooth muscular fibres form bundles (Fig. 46), which are plaited and interwoven. They are usually surrounded by abun- dant fibrous tissue, which binds the fibres and the bundles together. If the fibrous tissue form a considerable part of the bulk, the tumour is described as a fibromyoma. Most of the uterine ' fibroid' tumours are of this nature. The fibrous bands are white and lustrous, the muscular elements are pink, or reddish grey, or white. It is often by no means easy to distinguish the muscular elements from the purely fibrous. To make an exact Pig. 46. Section through a leiomyoma (from perls). The nuclei are shown partly lengthwise, partly cut across. determination, it is advisable to isolate the muscle-cells by teasing while the preparation is fresh. The isolation is easier if small fragments of the tumour have been steeped for twenty-four hours in a 20 per cent, solution of nitric acid, or for twenty to thirty minutes in a 34 per cent, solution of caustic potass. The nuclei of the muscle-cells are then easily recognised. Under the microscope the muscle-fibres are distinguished by their rod-like nuclei (Fig. 46) and by the regular structure of the tissue they form. In cross-section the muscle-spindle is seen as a small polygonal area