185 CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GKANULOMATA. the viscera the lungs are the most liable to be affected. They contain either nodes with caseous detritus in the centre and a greyish cellular periphery; or on the other hand lobular pneumonic patches of a light grey or blood-stained colour, or opaque and yellow from fatty and caseous change. At times the alimentary mucous membrane contains nodes of various sizes, composed either of light grey cellular tissue, or of opaque yellowish-white caseous or suppurative matters. In farcy, which is usually chronic, the nodes (' buttons' or 'buds') formed in the skin and muscles are made up of small-celled granulation-tissue, which later on undergoes retrogressive change, and becomes caseous or breaks down. In man, as in the horse, infection with glanders-poison is followed by the formation of nodes and nodules, especially in the nasal cavities and frontal sinuses, and in the larynx and trachea. At the same time vesicular and pustular eruptions appear on the skin, followed by phlegmonous abscesses in the skin and muscles. The viscera are also affected in like manner. The development of the granulation-tissue is generally very imperfect: the inflam- mation tends rather to take on a suppurative character. In chronic farcy large nodes ('farcy buds') are formed in the skin and muscles. When these break down they give rise to indolent and obstinate ulcerations. For a fuller description of equine glanders and farcy see Youatt, On the Horse London 1859; Fleming, Man. of Veterin. Sanitary Science voL I London 1875 : on the human affection see Poland, Holmes's System of Surgery vol. I. The nature of the glanders-poison is unknown. See Villemin {Etudes sur la tuberculose Paris 1868), Bollinger {Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vol. in), and Putz {Die Seuchen und Herdehranklieiten Stuttgart 1882). Actinomycosis. 134. Actinomycosis is a progressive inflammatory affection, set up by a certain fungus, the Actinomyces. It results in the formation of granulations and fibrous tissue, and in suppuration. It attacks human beings, cattle, and swine; and may be communi- cated to cattle by inoculation. The disorder was first recognised and described in man by Israel (1877), and in cattle by Bollingek (1877). The parasite which causes the disorder is a peculiar fungus. It first appears as a tufted rosette of radiating pyriform or club-shaped structures: these are either simple or divided by dissepiments, and are of considerable bulk. They are possibly the conidia (Art. 213). The fungus on reaching its full development appears as a peculiar gland-like body, with the outward form of a mulberry. It is produced by the aggregation of the club-shaped conidia: these spring in all directions from the filaments of a matted tuft which we may provisionally call the mycelium, and are thus crowded into a compact mass. The true botanical position of the fungus is as yet undetermined.