237 CHAP. XXVII.] EPITHELIAL TUMOUHS. CARCINOMA. Wc are chiefly indebted to Thiersch (Der J'Jpithelialhrebs 1865) and Waldeyer (Virch. Arch. vols. 41, 55) for the discovery that a large class of tumours (other than the adenomata) existed, in which epithelium formed an essential constituent. Thiersch demonstrated that cancer-cells are derived from epithelium, drawing his arguments principally from cases of cutaneous cancer or epithelioma. Waldeyer extended his researches to organs of every kind. Many subsequent observations have proved —that a considerable number of tumours which were believed by Virchow and others to originate as connective-tissue growths do really originate in epithelial growth and multi- plication. The class of connective-tissue tumours has thus been greatly diminished. The great majority of the alveolar tumours included by Virchow under the general term carcinomata must now be ranked as epithelial tumours. See Billroth's Stirg. Pathology 3d ed.; Lucre, in Billroth u. v. Pithas Iland- buch vol. II; Schron, Contrib. alia anat. della cute umana 1865; and, for criticism of the 'epithelial theory' of carcinoma, Paget's Surg. Path. Lect. 35. Koster's attempt (Die Entwickelung der Carcinome 1869) to disprove the participation of the epithelium in a large class of alveolar tumours, and to derive the cell-nests from the proliferous endothelium of the lymphatics, has not proved successful. This being the case, it will be best in future to designate the various tumours not according to their structure merely, but also with respect to their genesis. Carcinoma will then imply not only an alveolar structure, but an epithelial origin also. The mode of genesis is the distinctive and definitive character: the alveolar structure is merely a result of contingent or non- essential factors. 172. From the description we have given, it will be manifest that the so-called cancer-cells are nothing other than proliferous epithelial cells; and we may therefore expect them to exhibit epithelial characteristics. Accordingly we find that they preserve throughout the traces of their descent. They are comparatively large, and have large vesicular nuclei containing nucleolar corpuscles: and they have certain habits of grouping peculiar to the parent structures. Cutaneous cancers (epitheliomata) contain cells exactly like those of the Malpighian layer, and they may undergo corni- fying processes analogous to those which are normal in the case of the epidermis. Cancers starting in the intestinal mucous mem- brane are provided with cylin- drical epithelium. But this maintenance of the ancestral cell-type has its limits. When strings or wedges of epithelial cells penetrate the fibrous tissues, it invariably happens that the tightly packed elements affect each other mu- tually, and chiefly as regards their form (Fig. 65). We may see how this occurs by consider- ing a section of one of these conical epithelial wedges—which from their appearance have been called ' bird's - nest bodies ' Fig. 65. Bird's-nest body ok 'con- centric globe' from an epithelioma (x 250)