CHAPTER XXII. LATER STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. RECOVERY. REGENERATION. GRANULATION. CICATRISATION. 104. Inflammation ceases to advance so soon as the blood circulating through the vessels restores their walls to a healthy- state. When this happens recovery at once begins. After a slight inflammation, i. e. one in which the vessel-walls are but slightly damaged, and the exudation trifling, the tissue affected may recover in a remarkably short time. So soon as the vessels perform their functions normally the exudation ceases to be formed; what is already effused forthwith undergoes re- absorption by the lymphatics or by the blood-vessels themselves. Simple serous exudations are those most readily absorbed, but cor- puscular elements in moderate amount present no great difficulty. If any of the constituent cells of the tissue have been injured in the course of the affection, they may now recover. Their normal nutrition becomes possible as the circulation re-adjusts itself. In a short time nothing remains to show that inflammation has existed. The affected part becomes perfectly normal again. If the inflammation has been more intense and the amount of exudation greater, and if in addition tissue-elements have been actually destroyed over a small extent, the process of recovery is somewhat different. When the circulation becomes normal the exudation is re-absorbed as before. Liquid and cells are alike taken up by the lymphatics and blood-vessels. Even coagulated exudations are gradually removed after undergoing liquefaction. The necrosed tissues, like the more solid masses of exudation, are ultimately disintegrated and liquefied, and then removed by absorption. If they lie on the surface they may be directly cast off (Arts. 112—115). If the loss of tissue be not too great, and the remaining parts are healthy and vigorous, regeneration or repair is effected by multiplication of the tissue-cells. Epithelium produces epithelium, muscle-cells form fresh contractile substance, 10—2