[SECT. VII. PARASITES. 294 de med. Feb. 1 and 8, 1881). It is produced in rabbits by inserting garden- mould under the skin of the abdomen. Death ensues in twenty-four to forty- eight hours. The blood itself seems to contain no organisms; but subcutaneous oedema results, and in the oedematous tissues a delicate motile bacillus is found. Gaffky has cultivated the bacillus on slices of potato. Mouse-septicaemia (Koch) is a blood-affection generated in mice by in- oculation with a certain delicate bacillus. The injection of human saliva produces in rabbits a form of septicaemia not, as it seems, identical with that of Davaine (Raynacd, Pasteur). Gaffky produced still another form of septicaemia in rabbits by injecting river-water (from the river Panke). The bacteria which developed and multiplied in the blood resembled B. termo (Art. 205). References:—Davaixe, Acad, da m4d. Sep. 17, 1872; Coze and Feltz, Rech. exp. sur la presence des infusoires dans les .maladies infect. Strasburg 1866; Semmer, Virch. Arch. vol. 83; Koch, Wundinfectionskr. Leipzig 1878, Traum. Inf. Dis. (Sydenham Soc. 1880); Gaffky, Mitth. a. d. k. Gesundheits- amte Berlin 1881; Raynaud, Acad, de me'd. Feb. 8, 1881; Ewart, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxii; Tizzoni, Arch, per le scienze 1880—81 ; Sternberg, Rep. of Nat. Board of Health (U. S.) 1881; Braidwood and Vacher, Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1882 (a full list of contributions to the subject of pyaemia and septicaemia is given). (4) Diphtheria. This is a specific infective disease. The anatomical changes are usually first discerned in the pharynx and in the neighbouring mucous membranes. They take the form of catarrhal, croupous, and diphtheritic inflammations (Arts. 423—426). They are probably caused by a micrococcus which settles in the tissues of the parts named (rarely elsewhere—as in the eye, or in wounds), and thence spreads through the system. This view is chiefly sup- ported by the fact—that in and upon the affected mucous membranes we find micrococci scattered or aggregated as zoogloea, which do not occur under nor- mal conditions. Occasionally it is possible to demonstrate the presence of micrococci in the swollen cervical glands or even in deeper organs. If these micrococci be experimentally introduced into animals, they produce a disease resembling diphtheria. The micrococci multiply mainly within the body, but they may also find a suitable soil for growth outside it. The theory of the genesis of diphtheria is still defective in spite of the many investigations that have been made. Even what we have stated above regarding it is by no means beyond question. References:—Huter and Tommasi, Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 12 and 34, 1868; Oertel, Arch. f. klin. Med. vni, Ziemssens Cyclopaedia, vol. II, Die Aetiol. d. Diphtheric, Zur Actiol. d. Infectionskr. Munich 1881 ; Trendelen- burg, Arch. f. klin. Chir. x; Klebs, Arch. f. exp. Path, iv, Art. Diphtheritis, Realencyclop. d. ges. Ileilk.; Letzerich, Virch. Arch. vol. 68; Nassiloff, Virch. Arch. vol. 50; Eberth, Zur Kenntniss d. barter. Mycosen 1872; Wood and Formad, Rep. of Nat. Board of Health (U. S.) 1831—2. Brieger (Zeitsch. f. klin. Med. in) has lately pointed out the fact that in pyaemia, erysipelas, diphtheria, and scarlatina, certain processes take place in the tissues nearly allied to those in bacterial putrefaction. He therefore calls the diseases in question putrefactive diseases. (5) Scarlatina and measles. We have no certain knowledge as to the causation of scarlatina. Coze and Feltz (Malad. infect. 1872) and Riess (Reichert's Arch. 1872) have seen micrococci in the blood, and by inoculation have generated a fever-like disease in rabbits. Coze and Feltz also found micrococci in the blood of patients affected with measles; Keating {Philadelphia Med. Times, Aug. 12, 1882) recently found them in an epidemic of malignant measles; Ransome, and Braidwood and Vacher (Brit. Med. Journ. Jan. 21, 1882) found them in the breath as well as in the tissues.