CHAPTER IX. SIMPLE ATROPHY AND PIGMENTARY DEGENERATION. 43. In treating of malformations, we showed that in conse- quence of arrested development members, organs, or parts of organs may be ill-grown, misformed, or altogether wanting. Or if the plastic energy that determines growth be deficient, the entire organism or some of its parts may be dwarfed and stunted. Defective development of this kind, i.e. aplasia or hypoplasia, may occur after birth as well as before it. So long as the organism continues to grow, so long as new parts or organs continue to be formed in it, so long is its growth liable to be checked by external or internal influences. We may often observe this hypoplasia in the child. At birth it may have been anything but puny, yet under the operation of external causes, such as defective nutrition, various kinds of disease, or others less easily recognised, it later on shows signs of imperfect development in some of its systems or organs. The consequence is a dwarfing of the entire frame or of its parts, very often associated with faulty structure and function of the viscera. This hypoplasia makes itself especially evident when the bones are badly developed, as also when the heart and great vessels, the genital organs, or the central nervous system are under-grown. The association referred to is observed, for example, in cretins, whose bones are generally ill-grown; and in chlorotic females, where with hypoplasia of the vascular system there is also some imper- fection of the generative functions. Now atrophy is not to be confounded with such hypo2Dlasias or aplasias. In atrophy we have to do not with defective develop- ment, but with retrogressive change in parts originally well- formed and well-grown. 44. The life of an organ, like that of an individual, is limited in its duration. The active cell-growth of the j)eriod of develop- ment is succeeded by a stage in which the formative activity is less marked. In the latter stage the equilibrium between cell-growth