FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. 128 {Month. Journ. med. science 1851), Ewetzky (Entziindungs-versuche am Knorpel, Eberth's Arbciten in), Wartmann (Recherches sur I'enchondrome Geneva 1880), Kassowitz (Die normale Ossification Vienna 1881). Further details will be given in the section on the Special Pathological Anatomy of the Bones. 88. The bones have a very marked power of regeneration and of hyperplastic proliferation. The seat of this power is not so much in the osseous tissue itself as in those tissues which normally possess the power of bone-production; these are the periosteum in particular, and in a less degree the marrow. In very many cases the periosteum alone performs the office of replacing a loss of bony sub- stance. Many osseous hyperplasias are essentially the work of the periosteum. Cartilage has also some power of reproducing bone. Fibrous tissues unconnected with the skeleton very rarely give rise to bony tissue. Such abnormal bone-formation is however not unknown in certain cartilaginous and fibrous structures, such as the dura mater, the laryngeal cartilages, the intermuscular septa, and inflammatory fibrous tissues. The formation of new bone may occur in various ways, but it follows in general the lines of the normal process of ossification. The simplest mode is perhaps that in which the periosteum (or medullary tissue) gives rise to osteoblasts (i. e. large multinuclear formative cells resembling fibroblasts). These come into contact and cohere, and then imbibing calcareous salts are transformed partly into homogeneous matrix-tissue, partly into bone-corpuscles. In other cases the formation of bone is preceded or accompanied by the formation of granulation-tissue. Owing to this the exact mode in which the bone-substance is generated may be somewhat masked; but close investigation shows that here also osteoblasts are produced in the first instance, and that these are afterwards transformed into bone. The proliferating periosteum very often produces cartilage to begin with. Part of this cartilage may then pass directly into bone by a peculiar transformation. Or the cartilage may be replaced by a medullary tissue abounding in cells; and from this, by the agency of osteoblasts, the bone- substance may ultimately be produced. Normal cartilage behaves in the same way as that produced by proliferation of the periosteum. Like the latter it may be trans- formed into medullary tissue and bone-trabeculae. We have thus, in addition to the osteoblastic mode of bone-formation, a second or metaplastic mode, by which an already existing tissue is trans- formed into bone. As we have said, this occurs most frequently in cartilage; but other fibrous and sarcomatous tissues, by taking up calcareous salts, may in like manner be changed into bone. Their basis-substance is transformed into bony matrix-tissue, and their cells into bone-corpuscles (Arts. 90—92). Further discussion of the subject of pathological bone-formation will be found in the Special Pathological Anatomy. The recent memoirs of the following authors will serve to illustrate the main questions—Kolliker (Die