11 S I'llOMYOETES OR MOULDS. 315 CHAP. XXXI.] References:—Sachs, Text-book of Botany 1882; De Bary, Die gegenwiirtig herrschende Kartoffelkrankhcit Leipzig 1861, Journ. of Botany 1876, Botan. Zeitunq 1881 ; Hartig, Ueber die durch Pilze bedingten Pflanzenkrankliciten Munich 1881. 221. Pathological significance. The mould-fungi do not act as producers of disease to anything like the same extent as the bacteria. The fact that they require abundance of oxygen and flourish best at temperatures below that of the body hinders their development within it. Moreover their growth and reproduction are much slower than in the case of the bacteria, and this also is a hindrance to the invasion of living tissues by them. Lastly, they do not usually find in living tissues their proper nutriment. At the same time the products of the decompositions set up by them are by no means so poisonous as those which result from the development of bacteria. For these reasons the effect of mould- fungi or their germs on the system is either nil, or very limited. Multitudes of fungus-germs are received into the accessible cavities of the body with the air, water, and food. Most of these germs fail of development and perish, or are removed from the body. It is only now and then that they produce hyphae, and that only when they reach spots accessible to the air and containing necrotic tissues or other like matters. Such spots are the mouth, nostrils, and pharynx, and the external auditory meatus, the cornea, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. In the ' fur' of the tongue of patients whose mouths are not kept clean we often find not only bacteria but also the spores and hyphae of various filamentous fungi. In cases of bronchiectasis, vomicae, and pulmonary gangrene various forms of mycelial growths, such as Mucor, Uurotium, and Asf>ergillus, have been frequently described. They produce hyphae and conidia, and (rarely) the more complex conidiophores. These fungi are not however to be regarded as the specific causes of the diseases in question. They are merely secondary growths developing on the dead tissues produced by antecedent morbid processes. They have merely sprung up on a soil which they found already prepared. They are not parasites, they are merely saprophytes. But their development in the necrotic matters, and the further decay they set up, may nevertheless tend to excite inflammatory action in the neighbouring tissues. The fungi found occasionally in the stomach are in like manner to be regarded as secondary formations. They are not causally connected with the disease which they accompany. They are sometimes observed in cases where the gastric functions are gravely impaired, as in carcinoma and in dilatation of the stomach. The form of vegetative growth then met with is not the ordinary one: the fungi multiply by subdivision into short cells resembling those of the yeast-plant. This phenomenon Ave have already seen exemplified in the case of Mucor when grown under the surface of the nutrient liquid.