CHAPTER XXI. THE EARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. EXUDATION. 93. Inflammation is a term implying a whole series of processes partly vascular and partly textural; and these pro- cesses admit of a great variety of combinations. Inflammation being thus a complex of many elements, we are unable to give a definition of it that shall be brief and at the same time exact. We might say indeed that one or other element (such as that relating to the vessels) is characteristic of inflammation: but the whole content of the term cannot be fully indicated without describing the processes to which the term is applied. From the time of Celsus, i. e. from the first century A. D., four cardinal symptoms of inflammation have been recognised; namely 'rubor, tumor, dolor, color'—or redness, swelling, pain, and heat. To these we may generally add a fifth, the functio laesa, i. e. impairment or arrest of the function of the inflamed part. These cardinal symptoms are, as a fact, very easily and very frequently to be made out; especially in cases where the inflamma- tion is sudden and intense. In other cases, and especially in chronic inflammations, one or other of the symptoms is generally absent, or beyond the reach of observation. The constitution of the inflamed tissue may also modify the symptoms: its texture and composition may be such that the redness, for instance, or the pain, or the swelling, may be absent. 94. Galen rightly attributed the redness to an increased afflux of blood, and the swelling to an increased exudation from the vessels. The vascular changes, which thus take the form of hyperaemia, have been the subject of special attention during the last twenty or thirty years. Many investigators indeed have re- garded the vascular changes as constituting the essential feature of the inflammatory process. Andral defined inflammation simply as hyperaemia. Henle, Stilling, Vacca, Lubbock, and others referred the dilatation of the vessels, the accumulation of blood in them, and the resulting