PARASITES. 270 [SECT. VII. while the spores may be preserved for years in the dry state. They may even be kept moist for a time without losing their power to germinate or to produce the specific infection. 189. The temperature of the nutrient medium has great influence upon the development of bacteria. If the temperature be lowered, the effect is generally to slow and to weaken the vital processes, and ultimately to put an end to them altogether. As the temperature is raised on the other hand, these processes become more and more active until a certain maximum is reached: carried beyond this point they rapidly and suddenly cease, in most instances not to revive again. The maximum temperature which can be borne by fungi varies in the different species; a few are capable of growth at 70° to 74° C (Van Tieghem). The develop- ment of all kinds is stayed at a temperature of 5°C. They become stiff and immobile, but are not absolutely killed even by very extreme degrees of cold. The rigor frig oris sets in at different temperatures in different species; in the case of B. termo at 5° C, of B. anthracis at 15° C. For B. anthracis the temperature most favourable to development is 30°—40° C; at 42° C develop- ment ceases. B. termo developes best between 30° C and 35° C. All bacteria and all bacterial germs are killed by boiling-hot water or steam, after exposure for a certain time. The spores are much more resistent than the bacteria. In dry air both may endure much higher temperatures. Spores, for instance, are not destroyed at a temperature of 140° 0 until after three hours' exposure. B. termo perishes at 65° C, if the temperature be kept up for a considerable time. Researches on the effect of temperature on the bacteria and their spores have been made chiefly by Eidam (Cohris Beitriige z. Biologic d. Pflanzen vol. ii), Koch, Wolffhugel, Gaffky, and Loffler (Mitth. a. d. k. Ueswid- heitsamte Berlin 1881), Van Tieghem {Bull. Soc. But. 1881). The following are the chief results arrived at. Bacterium termo passes into rigor frigoris at 5°, into rigor caloris at 40°. At 45u the ordinary putrid decomposition of albuminoids ceases to go on (Eidam). Bacillus anthracis multiplies the more slowly as the temperature is lower, within certain limits. Between 30° and 40° growth and spore-formation are completed in twenty-four hours. At 25° this time is increased to thirty-five or forty hours. At 23° the spore-formation occupies forty-eight or fifty hours : at 20° seventy-two hours: at 18° it takes five days, at 16° seven days. Below 15° growth and spore-formation cease (Koch). Spores are still formed at a temperature of 42°. See also Sanderson and Ewart, Q. Joum. Mis, Sci. 1878. Bacteria without spores when exposed to hot air cannot endure a temperature much over 100° for so long as an hour and a half. The spores of bacilli are only destroyed after three hours' exposure to a temperature of 14( In the case of objects exposed to heat with a view to disinfection, it is note- worthy that the temperature penetrates very slowly. Objects of moderate size such as bundles of clothing, pillows, &c. are not completely disinfected even when exposed for three or four hours to a temperature of 140° (Wolffhugel). Anthrax-bacilli perish when exposed to boiling water for two hours; when exposed to steam in a closed space ten minutes suffices. On the other hand the peculiar bacillus found in garden-soil is not destroyed