(i INTRODUCTION. injurious agency which at first produces a morbid disturbance in one organ only, in its further progress invades another. This is brought about either by direct transition from one organ to its neighbour, or by actual transport of morbific matter through the bloodvessels and lymphatics to remoter regions. For example, a poison introduced into the intestine may be able to produce local disorder there ; but if it be absorbed into the blood and so be carried to the various organs, it may further have the power of exciting grave functional disturbance in the brain: a different poison may leave the brain alone and influence the kidneys, and so on. But this propagation of disturbance may take place in another way. Defective performance of its function by one organ is not always without influence upon other organs. A morbid condi- tion of one very often involves the like in another. Thus disease of the liver and bile-ducts may throw back the secreted bile into the blood, and this impure blood will tend to inhibit the action of the heart. Again disease of certain ganglion-cells in the spinal cord is followed inevitably by the atrophy of certain muscles. Failing action of the kidneys may bring on the general affection called uraemia. Imperfect action of the lungs may bring on serious changes in the action of the heart. Next to external influences heredity plays an important part in the genesis of disease. Unfortunately its influence is not easy to estimate; and it is often difficult, often impossible, to distinguish the inherited from the acquired. The human organism takes its rise in the maternal propagation- cell, the egg; and its development dates from the instant when in the act of impregnation the egg receives a specific stimulus from the paternal spermatozoa. The impulse thereby communicated manifests itself by cell-division and proliferation. According to the laws of heredity, the properties of the paternal and maternal organisms are transmitted to the child that is to be; and it is hence probable a priori that morbid conditions of the parents may be likewise transmissible to the child. This as a matter of fact is the case. The transmission shows itself in two ways. In the first place there are actual diseases, such as syphilis, which are bequeathed by the parent to the child. They are such that even in the Avomb or shortly after birth, or later still in life, they make their appearance in like fashion with the parental disease and without the inter- currence of fresh injury from without. Such are inherited diseases in the narrower sense of the term. They originate in a diseased condition of the ovum or spermatozoon which is transmitted to their cell-progeny, or in a direct transference of some morbific agent from the tissues of the father or mother into those of the newly-generated organism. In the higher groups of animals the latter mode of transmission is the most likely one, and it has been actually demonstrated in certain special cases. They are not common.