44 ANOMALIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD. [SECT. II. If the amount of blood in an organ deviates beyond the physio- logical limit from the mean or usual amount; or if there is a deviation dependent on factors other than the physiological ones; or if a deviation persists for an undue length of time, we have to do with a hyperaemia or anaemia which is pathological. Such pathological deviations are produced by agencies only in part identical with those which regulate the normal blood-supply of the organ. In this book, which, deals with pathology, we can only sketch in the broadest outline the general physiology of the circulation. For further details we refer the reader to the chapters on the subject in the classical work of Cohnheim (Vorlesungen iiber allgemeine Pathologic, 2d. edition, Berlin 1882). Many of the physiological remarks in the text are derived from these chapters. A summary of the main facts will be found in Foster's Text-book of Physiology. 20. Hyperaemia of an organ shows itself to the eye as a more or less intense reddening and turgescence. The redness will be bright or dark (livid) according as the contained blood is rich or poor in oxygen. In organs which are themselves strongly coloured, the redness may be more or less masked, and its exact tint modified. The reddening and turgescence are produced simply by the dilatation of the blood-vessels of the part, and their repletion with blood. Hyperaemia is not easily observed in the dead body: what is seen represents at best but partially the degree of hyperaemia which may have been present during life; and that only in some organs. At death the greater number of the vessels, and especially the arteries and capillaries, empty themselves of their contents. This is partly due to the contraction of their walls; partly to the rigor mortis of the tissues in which they have their course. The contraction of rigor presses out the blood contained in them much as the pressure of the finger makes a reddened hyperaemic spot become pale. It may thus come to pass that a membrane, which during life was hyperaemic and red, may after death appear pale and colourless. Or the only reminder of the pre-existing hyperaemia may consist of engorged veins and venules, which, on mucous membranes at least, run in purple branching tree-like courses over the surface. 21. Hyperaemia may be either active (congestive) or passive (mechanical). The first form depends on increased flow of blood to the part, or congestion; the second on diminished flow from the part, producing engorgement. Active hyperaemia is either idiopathic or collateral. The former is the more important, and depends on a relaxation of the muscular fibres of the arteries. This relaxation is brought about by paresis of the vasomotors; or by stimulation of the vasodilators; or it may be by direct weakening or paralysis of the muscular