CHAP. XXI.] EARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. EXUDATION. 137 ances may be directly studied under the microscope. The object is usually some transparent vascular membrane belonging to a living animal. The most convenient is the frog's mesentery, which from its fineness is well adapted for microscopic examination. The frog, paralysed with curare, is laid on its back on a large object-stage. The abdominal cavity is opened by means of a cut along the left side, and a loop of intestine is carefully drawn out. This is then spread over a thin circular cover-glass (10—12 mm. in diameter) surrounded by a thin ring of cork stuck to the stage with Canada balsam. The intestine is readily fixed to the cork ring by means of fine pins. If it is not desired to make a protracted examination, it is enough to fasten a cork ring (4—6 mm. thick) to a large object-stage with sealing-wax, and to spread out the intestine over that. The preparation need not be covered with a cover-glass. If no strain is thrown on the mesentery, and it as well as the frog is kept properly moist, the vascular changes may be observed for hours together. Further details of the method are given by Cohnheim in his various memoirs on inflammation and embolism (Virch. Arch. vol. 40; Neue Unter- such. iib. Entziind. Berbn 1873 ; Untersuch. iib. d. embol. Processe Berbn 1872). The foot-web and tongue of the frog are also very convenient objects. The latter is to be turned out, spread over a cork ring, and fastened down with fine pins. Inflammation is then produced by a drop of acid, or by clipping out a fragment with the scissors. For the study of the inflammatory process on a large scale the rabbit's ear is well adapted. Inflammation may be set up by rubbing it with croton oil (Samuel, Berl. klin. Woch. 24,1866, and Per Entziindungsprocess Leipzig 1873). The mesentery or omentum of a Warm-blooded animal may also be employed, if proper precautions are taken to maintain the body-heat, &c. See Stricker and Sanderson, Handbook for Phys. Lab. 1870; Thoma, Virch. Arch. vol. 74. 96. The exposure of the mesentery to atmospheric air quickly sets up inflammation. The earliest vascular change is a general dilatation of the vessels, first of the arteries, then of the capillaries and veins. The flow of the blood through the widened channels at first becomes more rapid; but sooner or later the speed diminishes, and at length the flow becomes slower than the normal. The indi- vidual blood-cells, which at first were indistinctly seen as they hurried past, become recognisable, especially in the veins and capillaries. In these latter the blood begins to accumulate more and more as the current slows. In the veins the peripheral layer of the current, usually containing plasma only, begins to be filled with white blood-cells. These have left the axial stream, and float slowly on with the slower peripheral current; or, fastening themselves to the wall, they remain immoveable or oscillate to and fro. This is described as the marginal or peripheral disposition of the white blood-cells (Fig. 22 d). At this stage the red cells take the place of the white in the capillaries. Before long the peripheral disposition of the cells is associated with another appearance. Here and there white blood-cells throw