CHAP. XVIII.] CELLULAR PROCESSES IN HYPERPLASIA ETC. 115 nucleus, migrates into the bud after it is already marked oft' from the parent. Until quite lately the process of nucleus-division was described (after Remak) somewhat in this fashion :—The nucleus lengthens out, becomes indented and constricted in the middle, and at last divides (compare Rind- fleisch, Pathological Histology, vol. I, p. 71 ; Coenil and Ranviee, Manual of Path. Hist. vol. i, pp. 9, 83). The constricted bean-shaped nuclei found in some preparations were regarded as in the preliminary stages of subdivision ; and the multiplication of the nucleoli was regarded as the first step in the actual process. This view must now be given up. The various shapes of the nuclei depend partly on actual contractions, partly on shrinkage during the hardening process. Increased size of the nucleus may perhaps have a relation to its imminent subdivision : the mere multiplication of its nucleoli has certainly no such relation. The older theories of direct nucleus-division have been discredited by the latest researches ; so also have the still older views concerning the formation de novo of cells and nuclei. (See Steasbuegee op. cit., where full references to the literature of this subject are given.) The question whether or not the white blood-cells subdivide is as yet unsettled. Indirect nucleus-division has not been observed in them. See Klein, Centralb. med. Wiss. 1869, Q. Journ. Mia. Sc. 1875 and Handb. of Phys. Lab.; Ranviee, Traiti technique d'histologic p. 161. On 'endogenous gemmation,' by which brood-cells are produced, see Viechow, Cellular Pathology; and Klein, Wiener Sitzungsber. 1871 and Anatomy of Lymphatic System vol. I London 1875. 77. The formation of new cells is the first step towards hyperplasia as well as towards regeneration. They yield the formative tissue out of which the definitive structures are developed. As the processes of cell-division in pathological new-formations are closely analogous with those of normal multiplication, so also do the succeeding formative processes run parallel with those of normal growth. If epithelium or fibrous tissue is to be fashioned out of the indifferent tissue which results from cell-division, the process of transformation is exactly the same as occurs in the normal development of the organism from embryonic tissue. So far as investigation in this region has yet extended, we find the law of the specific nature of the tissues to be everywhere obeyed. The cell-progeny of the embryonic cells which went to form any given layer of the blastoderm can go to build up such tissues only as are normally derived from that layer. An epithelial cell can in no possible circumstances form bone or cartilage: a connective-tissue corpuscle cannot bring forth an epithelial cell or a gland-cell. This law has frequently been called in question: the specific distinction between the various tissues was formerly not recognised or not accepted. Thus Virchow, to whom we owe the fundamental principles of cellular pathology as regards new- formations, held that connective tissue might serve for the matrix of the most various structures. This view is no longer tenable: observed facts constrain us to believe that a tissue cannot give rise to new_ tissue other than of its own kind or kindred. Epithelial tissues are, generally speaking, built up by the 8—2