201 CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. CHONDROMA. cells take no part in the proliferous process. The proportion of cells in the tumour varies greatly: sometimes the cells form the bulk of it, and sometimes the fibrous framework. The vessels are often highly developed, and may be sacculated or generally dilated. Glioma is usually solitary, and as regards metastasis is inno- cent : it is only locally maligriant. Certain cellular tumours of the retina have been described as gliomatous: their elements resemble the cells of the granular layer. As they grow they invade on the one hand the orbital cavity behind the eye-ball, or on the other hand break through the cornea and sclerotic, passing forwards. They recur after apparent extirpation, and give rise to metastases. The cells of which they are made up are partly round and simple, and partly ramified. It seems questionable whether we are justified in calling these tumours gliomata. We are inclined to maintain that they are really sarcomata. Glioma was first defined and named by Virchow (Die h. Geschwiilste n. ch. 18). Klebs has recently propounded the theory (Beitrdge zur Geschivulstlehre I, 1879) that the ganglion-cells play an active part in the formation of gliomata. Ziegler and Christoph examined a large number of gliomata both fresh and hardened, but failed altogether to find evidence for this view. The nuclei of the ganglion-cells seemed never to subdivide. In the instances where this at first sight appeared to occur, closer investigation showed that the suspected ganglion-cell had merely incorporated a neuroglia-cell. e. Chondroma. 146. Chondromata (or enchondromata) are tumours which consist essentially of cartilage. The slight amount of fibrous tissue usually present in a chondroma is of altogether minor importance. It either serves to cover the surface of the tumour, or penetrates the interior carrying the nutrient blood-vessels. Cartilaginous tumours are chiefly developed in regions which normally contain cartilage; that is to say, in the osseous system or in the cartilaginous parts of the respiratory system. They may occur however in tissues which are normally devoid of cartilage, such as the testis and parotid gland, and more rarely in other organs. They are of very various size: the smaller ones are generally globular, the larger are lobed or nodular. The several lobes are in the latter case separated by fibrous tissue. They are often multiple, especially in the skeletal structures of the hands and feet. The tumour-tissue has usually the structure of hyaline cartilage, though sometimes yellow cartilage or fibro-cartilage largely replaces it. Even in hyaline chondromata, however, there are always patches in which the matrix-substance is beset with fibres. At the periphery the cartilage passes gradually into fibrous tissue, which forms a sort of perichondrium. The hyaline matrix often has a dusty or ground-glass appearance.