144 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. simple degenerative changes in the liver-cells to parenchymatous inflammation. In speaking of the parenchymatous inflammation of a particu- lar organ, it is customary to make use of a term compounded of the Latin or Greek name of the organ and the affix -itis. Thus hepatitis, nephritis, encephalitis, oophoritis, refer respectively to the liver, kidney, brain, and ovary. In some cases old specific names are used instead, as pneumonia (for pulmonitis), an inflam- mation of the substance of the lung. Histologists often indicate that an organ has undergone inflam- mation by saying merely that it is infiltrated with small cells or leucocytes. This accumulation of cells is in reality the feature by which the fact of antecedent inflammation is most readily recog- nised. 102. The histological characters of inflammation depend on the one hand upon the nature of the exudation, on the other hand upon the changes in the tissue. Both factors have been utilised in classifying the forms of inflammation, according as one or the other happens to be the more prominent. With respect to varieties in the nature of the exudation, the following types are distinguished. (1) Serous and fibrino-serous exudation. When the in- flammatory alteration in the vessels is not very marked, the exuded fluid may be relatively poor in cells, and in its constitution may resemble the transudation from vessels that are merely engorged. It is however distinguishable from the latter by its greater per- centage of albumen and of white blood-cells, and by its greater coagulability. Where it collects in quantity, therefore, it looks more or less turbid, and contains flakes and threads of coagulated fibrin. Collections of this fluid in serous cavities are described as fibrino-serous effusions. When it infiltrates the parenchyma of an inflamed solid organ, it gives rise to inflammatory oedema. When it is effused on the surface of the skin or of a mucous mem- brane, it is spoken of as serous catarrh. (2) Fibrinous or croupous exudation. When the exudation contains fibrinogenic and fibrinoplastic elements in abundance, it undergoes coagulation throughout. As explained in Art. 35, the fibrinogenic substance is contained in the exuded liquid, the blood-cells yielding the fibrinoplastin. The presence of a certain percentage of leucocytes in the exudation favours coagulation. The term fibrinous exudation is especially applied to effusions into the various body-cavities. The coagulated masses form toughish, yellowish white, adherent films or coverings over the affected organs. When tissues are infiltrated, or mucous membranes covered over, with the coagulated exudation, the term croupous is generally applied to it. The croupous false-membranes formed on mucous surfaces