CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 265 ment contained in the liquid in which they live, they fall to tin- bottom as a powdery precipitate. Fig. 74. Various forms of bacteria (x 500 in each case) 1, Micrococcus septicus; a separate, b in cbaplets. 2, Micrococcus diphtheriticvs forming a zoogloea-mass. 3, Bacterium termo. 4, Zoogloea of B. terrno. 5, Bac- terium lineola. 6, Bacillus subtilis. 7, Bacillus anthracis, with red blood-cells. 8, Flagellate bacillus from the mouth. 9, Bacillus leprae (Ahmauer Hansen). 10, Bacillus with terminal and medial spores, from a putrefying liquid, 11, Bacillus malariae (Klebs), with spores. 12, Vibrio seipens (Cohn). 13, Spirochaeta Ober- meyeri ('spirillum' of relapsing fever). 14, Spirillum volutans (Cohn). 15, Sarcina ventriculi. As has been indicated in Art. 184, Billroth, Hallier, and Klebs maintain that the rnicrobacteria represent merely a developmental stage in the life-history of the micrococci. Billroth ([Inters, iiber Coccobacteria septica Berlin 1874) believes that all bacteria belong to a single species of plants, the members of which are composed partly of round and partly of rod-like segments varying greatly in size. The roimd segments are the cocci, the rod-like segments bacteria. Each form may pass into the other on occasion ; though they so far breed truly that for some generations cocci produce only cocci, and bacteria only bacteria. According to size we may distinguish them as micrococci, mesococci, and megacocci, and microbacteria, mesobacteria, and megabacteria. Megacocci may break up into micrococci. The plant which passes through all these stages Billroth calls Coccobacterium septicum. In the process of multiplication it developes a gelatinous envelope or gliacoccus. When this occurs at the surface of a liquid so that a pellicle is formed, he calls it petalococcus or petalobacterium. Masses of cocci enclosed in a cylindrical sheath of gliacoccus are called ascococci (Van Tieghem, Bull. Soc. Botanique 1880). Coupled spherules are diplococci; chains or chaplets of spherules, streptococci: and in like manner he describes diplobacteria, and streptobacteria. Ray Lankester (Q. Joum. M. S. 1873) also inferred from certain experiments of his that Cohn's forms are not really distinct. Haberkorn (Bot. Centralb. 10,1882) maintains that Cohn's four divisions merely represent diverse species of a single genus. Billroth's view of the specific unity of all the bacterial forms has been discredited by later researches (cf. Tiegel, Virch. Arch. vol. 60 ; Lister, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin, 1875). Klebs (Arch. f. exp. Path, iv) divides the globular and rod-like bacteria into Microsporina and Monadina. He defines the Microsporina as small micrococci which in the resting state form well-defined and compacted balls ; the several spherules being regularly deposited in layers and surrounded