PARASITES. [SECT. VII. 276 which carbonic anhydride, water, and (in nitrogenous substances) ammonia, are formed. Such slow changes are set up when organic matters are in contact with water and atmospheric air. They also of course occur in the living organism. In dead organic matters the process corresponds in part to what is called ' dry rotting ' or ' mouldering'. Brieger (Zeitsch. f. klin. Med. in) thinks that the various aromatic products of the putrefaction of albumen are equally well obtained whether it is set up by the addition of sewer-mud or of pancreas. The essential factors are the duration of the putrefactive process, the temperature, and the amount of oxygen present. The albuminoids undergo the same changes in the intestine as they do in artificial putrefaction brought about outside the body. The same series of changes are also set up in putrid pleurisy and bronchitis, and in pulmonary gangrene. 193. Bacteria without and within the body. If the facts already cited be duly considered, it will appear very probable a prio?'i that the diffusion of the bacteria is enormously wide. Matters on which they can grow and thrive are found almost everywhere. We might especially expect to find them wherever dead organic substances occur, either in solution or at least associated with a certain amount of water. This expectation is fully confirmed by experience. Bacteria are found in all waters whether flowing or stagnant, in all liquids that can ferment or putrefy, and in all vegetable and animal tissues that are sufficiently moist. Koch's researches have shown that the surface soil or mould is extraordinarily rich in bacterial germs. It is surprising to leam that these are chiefly the germs of bacilli; but micrococci are also found. In soils soaked with midden-runnings the micrococci are more numerous than the bacilli. If the soil become very dry, the micrococci disappear while the bacilli persist. This is due to the fact that the resting-spores of bacilli are very tenacious of life. The micro-organisms present diminish rapidly as we go deeper. At the depth of a metre they seem entirely absent. Spring-water coming from a depth contains hardly any. But we have by no means exhausted the field of their dis- tribution. When liquids containing fungi are violently shaken or broken into spray, the fungi pass into the air. This happens also when such a liquid dries up, or when a solid nutritive substance is broken up or disintegrates. If in the latter cases no substances are present which agglutinate the bacteria into a compact mass, they may pass into the air in immense numbers. Owing to their extreme smallness and lightness (Naegeli estimates the weight of small moist bacteria at one ten thousand millionth (10~10) of a milligramme) they are carried about by the faintest breath of air. In this way they must of course very often reach and rest on bodies which can offer them no nutriment. But they must also often fall on a fit soil, and then proceed to grow and multiply afresh. Circum- stances in general are in fact so favourable to the bacteria that we find them or their germs almost everywhere; but chiefly where the presence of organic matters, moisture, and warmth go to favour their multiplication.