CHAPTER XXXI. HYPHOMYCETES AND BLA STOMYCETES (MOULDS AND YEASTS). 212. Mould-fungi and yeast-fungi, with their congeners, belong like the bacteria to the achlorophyllous Thallophytes. They appear to have no nearer affinity than this to the bacteria, and they have no phylogenetic relation to them. The mould-fungi and the yeast-fungi are however more nearly akin to each other, for it is probable that the yeast-fungi are the primitive forms from which the higher fungi have developed (Brefeld). Moulds and yeasts, like bacteria, can only draw their nutriment from organic carbon-compounds. These they mostly find in dead organic matters, and they are therefore classed as Saprophytes. Some of them however are able to abstract nutriment from living tissues, and are therefore to be reckoned as Parasites. Both forms are met with in connexion with the human body. The mould-fungi or Hyphomycetes are well known outside the body. They form the familiar flocculent covering or pellicle seen on decaying organic substances, and variously known as mould, mildew, mother, &c. They belong to several distinct genera and even to distinct sub-classes of the Thallophytes. The yeast-fungi or Blastomycetes are also familiar organisms. They set up alcoholic fermentation, and form the yeasty scum which appears on the surface of alcoholic liquors. The systematic classification of the Thallophytes has in the last year or two undergone considerable modification. The earlier classification, based on certain obvious characters of form and habit, was into Algae, Lichenes, and Fungi. This subdivision has been modified since the discovery of the reproductive organs, and in many cases of the entire life-history, of the various forms. No sharp line divides the algae from the fungi. Many families of so-called algae and fungi are really correlated, inasmuch as they agree in the characters of reproduction and 'alternation'. The lichens have been regarded as ascomycetous fimgi which are parasitic on particular algae, the gonidia. The absence of chlorophyll, and the variety of external forms (polymorphism) which occurs, are secondary characters; the latter especially being influenced by parasitism (Sachs, Text-book of Botany Oxford 1882 ; Brefeld, Botanisclie &ntersuchungen iiber Schimmelpilze Leipzig 1874—77).