324 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. 228. Ascaris Iwnbricoides, the common round-worm or maw- worm (Fig. 89, p. 325), is a cylindrical worm with pointed ends: it is light brown or red in colour. The female (A) is 25—40 cm. long; the male (B) is considerably smaller, and its tail-end is bent into a hook provided with two spicula (c) or chitinous spines. The mouth is surrounded by three muscular lips bearing very delicate teeth. The female genital orifice («) is anterior to the middle of the length. The eggs, which the female bears in enormous numbers, have when mature a double shell (Fig. 90) surrounded by an albuminous coating. It is about 50—60 micromm. in diameter. The worm is found in all parts of the alimentary canal, but chiefly in the small intestine. When the females are mature great numbers of eggs are shed and are found in the faeces They are very tenacious of life, and are not killed by drying or freezing. The life-history of the worm is not fully known. It is possible that the eggs after ejection from the intestine require to pass through the body of an intermediate host before they can take up their abode in another human body. Their presence in the intestine does not usually give rise to any serious trouble. Only when they are very numerous do they cause intestinal catarrh, vomiting, and nervous irritation, chiefly in children. At times they pass through normal or morbid ojDenings in the intestinal wall, and give rise to more serious disturbances. Thus an ascaris in the common bile-duct may obstruct the outflow of bile and so induce jaundice. Or if it pass through an ulcerated opening into a hernial sac, or into the peritoneal cavity, it may excite inflamma- tion in the corresponding tissues. According to Leuckart it may even penetrate the wall of the intestine where there is no pre-exist- ing wound. It is often voided per anum, and occasionally per os during vomiting. Ascaris mystax, or round-worm of the cat, is a very rare inhabitant of the human intestine. It is considerably smaller than the common round-worm (Cobbold, Entozoa, 1864—69). 229. Oxyuris vermicularis, the thread-worm, seat-worm, or maggot-worm (Fig. 91), is a small round-worm. The female (A) is 10 mm. long, and acumi- nate at the tail: the male (B) is 4 mm. long and blunt at the tail, which is furnished with a single spiculum at the anus. The eggs (G), often seen in great multitudes within the body of the female, are 50 micromm. long and 24 micromm. broad. One side is flat and the other rounded. The shell is covered A Pig. 91. oxyuris vermicularis. (From LEUCKART) A female and B male, magnified fivefold C egg magnified 350-fold