AETIOLOGY OF TUMOURS. CHAP. XXVIII.] 257 period may arise from causes similar to those which give rise to local malformations in the stricter sense of the term. Arrest of the process by which osteoblastic cells are transformed into bone might thus, for example, give rise to an abnormal formation of tissue such as cartilage, in other words, to enchondroma; or by encouraging an over-abundant cellular growth, to sarcoma. Tumours arising in a mature tissue are to be explained only by supposing some antecedent alteration over a more or less extensive region of the tissue. This alteration must be of such a kind as to favour the emancipation of the subsequent neoplasm from its matrix-tissue, without at the same time diminishing the neoplasm's own productive power. This last indeed must rather be increased. In this way we may perhaps explain the operation of a traumatic lesion in inducing the growth of a tumour. In special circum- stances it is conceivable that such a lesion may fulfil both the essential conditions we have named. In the case of the connective-tissue growths of later life, it would seem as if increased cell-activity were always a necessary condition for their development. This must presumably always be a condition of tumour-formation in tissues whose cells are replaced but slowly or not at all. The primary impulse which excites the cells to active growth may be derived from some change either in the cells themselves, or in the intercellular basis-substance. With regard to epithelial tumours, anatomical investigation shows that increased cell-production is not an indispensable pre- requisite. In the carcinomata of later life, for instance, it would appear that the origin of the neoplastic growth is to be looked for, not so much in any increased activity on the part of the cells, as in a change of mutual relation between the several constituents of the tissue. Thiersch has pointed out—that in old age this latter effect may be due to certain retrogressive changes which then make their appearance. In the corium, for instance, such changes lead to a loosening of its texture, and so modify the relations of the epithelial cells to the fibrous tissue. This modifica- tion may make itself felt in one of two directions. In the first place, the epithelium, always in process of decay and replacement, may in the course of its physiological growth and multiplication penetrate to regions which are normally devoid of epithelium. Loosening and displacement affecting the fibrous basis of an organ may give rise to something like fissures or spaces with free surfaces, and into these the contiguous epithelium may readily penetrate and grow. The first sproutings or outgrowths of glandular or lining epithelium may conceivably take place in this manner. We might fairly expect that the fibrous structures would as it were rise up against the intruder, and attempt to eliminate it as a foreign substance. This may well happen in many cases, and then the further advance of the process will be checked. In other cases it does not happen, probably because the invaded tissue is no longer in m. 17