NEMATODA. 323 CHAP. XXXII.] (4) Gimex lectuarius, or bed-bug, infests bedding, bedsteads, old floors and walls, cupboards, &c. and betakes itself to its human victim at night in order to suck blood from him. It produces wheals on the skin. (5) Puleoo irritans, or common flea, also draws blood from the skin. At the point attacked is found a small punctiform haemor- rhage surrounded by a reddened areola. More marked swellings or wheals are sometimes formed. The eggs are laid in the crevices and cracks of flooring-boards, in saw-dust, &c. (6) Pidex penetrans, or sand-flea, (chigoe or chigger) is found in the sands of South Africa. The female buries itself and lays its eggs beneath the skin, and so produces intense inflammation. (7) Gulicida and Tipulida (midges and mosquitoes), Tabanida (gad-flies), and Stomoxys calcitrans also take blood from the skin and excite transient exudative inflammations. Some flies (Oestrida) lay their eggs occasionally in accessible body-cavities or in wounds. This occurs oftener among the lower animals than among men. Oestrus hominis (a doubtful species) lays its eggs beneath the human skin, and the larvae (maggots or bots) set up violent inflammation. Haematopota pluvialis is the Scotch ' clegg': it attacks men and beasts indifferently. The above account has been chiefly taken from Leuckart, Die menschlichen Parasiten Leipzig 1863—76, and 2nd Ed. vol. I, 1879—81 ; Heller, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vols, in, vu; Klebs, H. d. path. Anat.; Perls, Lehrb. d. allg. Path, ii Stuttgart 1879. Other comprehensive works are—Kuchenmeister and Zurn, Die Parasiten d. Menschen Leipzig 1882 ; Davaine, Traitd des Entozoaires Paris 1877 ; Muller, Statistik d. menschlichen Parasiten Erlangen 1874; Stein, Die parasitiiren Krankheiten d. Menschen vol. I Lahr 1882; Perroncito, Parasiti d. uomo e d. animali utili Milan 1882; Cobbold, Parasites London 1879. Scolecida, or Worms. 227. Nematoda. The parasitic round-worms and thread- worms are all nematoids. They have slender cylindrical elongated (sometimes filiform) bodies, without segments or appendages. The cuticle is thick and elastic. The mouth is placed at the anterior extremity, and is provided with soft or horny lips according to the species. The intestine is straight and, with the pharyngeal and gastric portions, extends from end to end of the body-cavity, terminating on the ventral surface just in front of the acuminate tail. The genital organs and their orifices are on the ventral side. The female genital orifice is usually placed at about the middle-point of the length; more rarely it is anterior or posterior to this. The male orifice coincides with that of the anus: it is provided with a chitinous investment, which serves also as a prehensile organ during copulation. The males are usually smaller than the females. Development is direct, and the metamorphic variations slight. The nematoids parasitic on man are some of them harmless inhabitants of the intestine, while others are highly dangerous when they invade the deeper organs. 21—2