CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOM Yt'ETES (.ill BACTERIA. 2W) Munich 1872; Buhl, Zeitsch. f. Biol, vi ; Waldeyer, Vwoh. Arch. vol. 52 ; Fischl, Arch.f. exp. Path. xvi". Many instances of so-called 'meat-poisoning' are to lie reckoned as cases of intestinal mycosis. They are very probably produced by various micro-organisms and their products. In some cases the poisoning is simply septic (Art. 204 (3)): in others it is apparently specific, and in some of these latter bacilli are certainly concerned. Exact investigations on the subject are still to be desired. References:—Zangger, Arch. f. Thierheill: xxiv (1871); Albrecht, Wochensch. f. Thierhvilh. 1878 ; Kuskmaul, Arch. f. Bin. Med. iv ; Huber, Arch. d. Heilk. xix ; WALDER, Bed. Bin. Woch. 1878. Wyss, Corresp. f. sckweiz. Aerzte 1881 ; Bollinger, Zur Aetiol. d. Infect. Munich 1881 ; Ballard and Klein, Report of Med. Off. of Local Govt. Board 1880. (5) Syphilis. Klebs has a paper on a bacillus connected with syphilis in the Arch. f. exp. Path. x. He found microscopic rods and spherules in indurated chancres. From these he obtained bacilli by cultivation. Inoculating a monkey with these, he produced an inflammatory affection in some respects resembling syphilis, in other respects resembling tuberculosis. Ziegler made many similar experiments but was unable to corroborate Klebs' statements. In 1878 he and von Rinecker attempted to cultivate the substance removed with all care from indurated buboes, the attempt was repeated many times, but always with negative results. Various nutritive substances were used in the cultivation-experiments. See also Aufrecht, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 13, 1881; Birch-Hirschfeld, ibid. 44, 1882. (6) Malaria. The Bacillus malariae was taken by Klebs and Tomjiasi-Crudeli from the air over the Italian marshes by means of a special apparatus. Its properties were tested by culture and inoculation. They also found the fungus in samples of soil taken from the same districts. They conclude—that malarious disease can be reproduced in rabbits: that it is caused by an organism: that this is present in the soil of the malarious district before it produces fever in man : and that its passage into the air can be observed under favourable conditions. Marchiafava found the bacillus in the blood, marrow, and spleen of patients who had died of malarious fever. The Bacillus malariae is an aerobious organism, which flourishes in soils of various kinds and may occur in places that are not marshy. It forms spores, and for its development requires a temperature of 20° C. Laveran found ' filaments mobiles' in the blood of ague-patients. References:—Klebs and Tommasi-Crudeli, Arch. f. exp. Path, xi; Ceci, ibidem xv; Tomhasi-Crudeli, La Malaria de 'Rome Paris 1881, JVuovi studj sulla natura ddla Malaria Rome 1881, Malaria and the Ancient Drainage of the Roman Hills, Practitioner 2, 1881, Istituzioni di anat. pat. vol. i Turin 1882; Marchiafava and Cdboni, Nuovi studj sulla natura della Malaria, Acad, dei Lincei, Jan. 2, 1881 ; Marchand, Virch. Arch. vol. 88 ; Laveran, Nature parasitaire des accidents d'impaludisme Paris 1881 ; Richard, Comptes Rendvs 1881 ; Sternberg, Rc >. Nat. Board of Health \U. S.) 1881. (7) leprosy. Bacillus leprae was found in all the leprous nodules they examined by Armauer Hansen {Virch. Arch. vol. 79 and Q. Journ. Micro. Sci. 1880) and Neisser (Breslauer arzt. Zeitsch. 1879 and Virch. Arch. vol. 84). The bacilli are rather longer than the semi-diameter of a red blood-cell : they lie partly within and partly without the cells of the leprous nodules. Neisser cultivated them in blood-serum and extract of meat, and observed them develope into filaments. They form spherical spores which are seated at