264 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. swollen and continually enlarging membrane, the result is a mass of zoogloea. The genus Micrococcus includes several species. These are distinguished partly by their morphological and partly by their physiological characters. In the first place the micrococci are of various sizes. When cultivated on a proper soil they form colonies of various types. Many of them as they multiply produce yellow, red, blue, green, or brown colouring matters. Lastly, the effects pro- duced in the soil or liquid in which they grow are various; nor do they all nourish on the same kind of nutriment. It is still doubt- ful whether the micrococci are motile. The oscillatory movements observed in them are probably to be regarded as Brownian or pedetic movements. Klebs believes that the zoogloea are con- tractile. The genus Sarcina is very clearly marked. The globular cells divide crosswise, and the daughter-cells usually remain combined in tetrads (Fig. 74,15). Various species have been distinguished according to the size of the cells. Billroth and Klebs assert that micrococci may grow into rodlets or bacilli. It is not to be denied that some bacterial spherules become transformed into rods (Art. 185), but Cohn is probably right in maintaining that Micrococcus is a definite genus of constant form. Ziegler has cultivated Micrococcus luteus, a bacterium which developes on boiled eggs exposed to the air and forms yellow zoogloea; and though the experiments were carefully made to that end, he could never obtain bacilli, but always micrococci. Experiments on parasitic micrococci seem equally to indicate that there is a genus of bacteria which forms globular cells only. It is not yet certain whether or not the micrococci produce spores. Koch thinks it- unlikely. See also Ewart, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxvn. 185. The Microbacteria are classed together as a single genus Bacterium. The principal species are Bacterium termo (Fig. 74, 3), and Bacterium lineola (Fig. 74, 5). The first appears in the form of minute cylindrical rods, 0"5 to 1"5 micromm. in length, and appearing bright or dark according to the mode of illumination. Sometimes they remain at rest, sometimes move about more or less actively. From their manner of subdivision they are often found coupled in pairs; they do not usually form chains or chaplets; but are often grouped as zoogloea (Fig. 74, 4), which are remarkable for the great abundance of the gelatinous intercellular substance. B. termo is very generally found in putre- fying matters. B. lineola resembles B. termo, but it is larger in every way. It is found in water, in infusions, on potatoes, &c. The cells, which are from 3'8 to 5 micromm. in length, contain a clear bright substance interspersed with fine granules. In other respects the bacterium resembles B. termo; it swims about actively, moving forwards and backwards in curves, rotating, or oscillating. At times it remains motionless. It forms continuous pellicles on the surface of liquids containing it. When micrococci or microbacteria have exhausted the nutri-