CHAPTER, I. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 1. By congenital malformation we mean an anomaly in the form and make of the body as a whole, or of individual parts of it, referable to a disturbance of normal intra-uterine develop- ment. The degree of malformation may be very different in different cases. When the deviation from the normal is slight, affecting perhaps only a single part, we speak of it as a simple anomaly. The term malformation is not usually employed unless the misformed part or organ seriously disturbs the balance and harmony of the bodily form as a whole, seeming in fact to be ill- matched with the rest of the organisation. When the deviations from the normal are very considerable the affected individuals are spoken of as monsters. Monsters fall into two great groups—the single and the double. In single monsters we have malformation occurring in a single individual. One or more parts of the organism may have been arrested in growth, and are therefore incomplete or wanting : thus we have monsters by defect (monstra per defectum). Or the struc- ture and disposition of the parts may deviate from the normal, and thus we get monsters by perversion (monstra per fabricam alienam). Double monsters are of several kinds. Two nearly similar individuals may have one or more parts in common ; or a properly formed individual may have attached to it the ill-developed body of a second as an appendage ; or lastly particular members may be doubled, or simply exaggei'ated in size {monstra per excessum). The literature (if malformation is rich both in comprehensive treatises and in accounts of individual cases. The following sketch is based on the works of Foerster (Die Missbildwngen dcs Menschen Jena 1865); Gurlt (Article Mofutrum in tin; h'tiri/dopiidisches Worterbuek der medicinisclien Wissenscha/'ten, vol. 24 and Virch. Arch. vol. 74); Ahlfeld (Die Missbildwngen des Menschen Leipzig 1880); and Perls (Lehrbuch der allgcmeinen Pathologic, Part n, 1879). Fokkstkh, (}cRt/r iitid Airr.Ficr.n give summaries of the ancient and modern literature of the subject. The student may also consult Vrolik's article on Teratology in Todd's Cyclop, of Anatomy, and Lowne's Catalogue of Terato- logical Specimens, Hoy. Coll. Surg. London 1872. 2—2