| SECT. VI. TUMOURS. 206 blood is abstracted and the lumen of the vessels diminished as much as possible, so that the nuclei are set radially, the section looks very like one through the glomerulus of a sweat-gland. Fig. 42. Section of a simple hypektbophic angioma of the skin (x 200) The duct of a sweat-gland has been cut across at the middle of the section. This resemblance is further increased by the fact that the tumour is made up of a number of lobules or nodules separated by fibrous tissue, each composed of a convoluted knot of hypertrophied vessels. Moreover, as these angiomata occur in the skin, and chiefly in the deeper parts of the cutis and subcutaneous connective tissue, it sometimes happens that the section includes actual sudoriferous tubules (Fig. 42). A third form of simple angioma is the venous or varicose tumour: it likewise occurs chiefly in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. In the forms already described the smaller veins are often dilated, but this feature is not marked in comparison with the capillary changes. In the venous angiomata the dilatation is almost entirely confined to the smaller veins, the anastomosing capillaries remaining almost unchanged. The venous dilatations or varices are cylindrical, ampullate, or saccular, with distinct and somewhat thickened walls. Haemorrhoids or piles are of this nature: they are tumours formed in the mucous membrane of the rectum near the anus, and consist mainly of hyperplastic sub- mucous tissue, and of blood-containing saccules, derived from the small veins by morbid dilatation. References :—Rokitanskt, Lehrb. d. path. Anat. 1855; Virchow, Die krankhaften Geschwiilste; Billroth, Arch. f. Chir. xi; Lucke, Chirurgie v. Pitha u. Billroth n ; Monod, Etude sur Vangioma simple Paris 1S73 ; Paget, Surg. Path. Lect. 28 (containing further references). 150. The cavernous angioma is distinguished from the simple angioma by the fact that the tubular form of the vessels is more or less lost. In its fully developed form, the tumour is made up of a series of wide variously shaped cavities, separated