178 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. to other animals and is identical with human tuberculosis. Schuprel (Virch. Arch. vol. 56), and Cheiohton (Bovine Tuberculosis in Man London 1881), from microscopic comparison of tubercles and the pearly nodules, declare that they are identical. Okth (Virch. Arch. vol. 76) arrived at the same conviction through experiments in which the animal was fed with the infective matter; as did also Bollinger and Klebs (Arch. f. exp. Path, i), Chauveau (Jahrb. der ges. Med. 1872), and Baumgarten (Berl. klin. Woch. 49, 1880). On the other hand Colin (Compt. rend. 1876), Gunther, Harms, and Muller (Jahrb. der ges. Med. 1873—74) obtained only negative results. Virchow (Berl. klin. Woch. 1880 and Virch. Arch. vol. 83) also made experiments by the method of feeding, but his results were ambiguous. He thinks that so far as experiments have hitherto gone the transmissibihty of the pearly disease to other animals (by feeding them with diseased milk or meat) is not yet certainly established. Koch's observation of the specific bacillus in the pearly nodules seems to remove all doubt of their identity with tubercles. How far the bovine disease may be transmitted to man is not yet made out. The transmission is at any rate possible, and that by various channels. Syphilis. 128. Syphilis is an infective disease, originating in a fixed contagium. It starts at a wounded or abraded spot, gives rise there to certain local tissue-changes, and thence spreads through the entire system. The poison of syphilis occurs in the human organism only; it is nowhere reproduced but within the human organism; and it is conveyed to other individuals only by direct transference. When transplanted into a new organism, it excites inflammatory processes of the most diverse intensity and extent— from simple localised and transitory hyperaemia to the formation of enormous exudations, or granulomatous growths, or extensive fibrous hyperplasias. If a child be procreated while the infection lasts, the disease may be transmitted to it from the mother's side as well as from the father's. The primary inflammatory focus is formed at the seat of infection as an indurated chancre or ' hard sore.' It is an ulcer with an hardened bacon-like or gristly base and margin. It generally begins as an excoriation, i. e. a slight and superficial loss of substance, and over this a vesicle or pustule is formed. In other cases it is developed from a node formed (for example) in the scar of a former ulcer; this then breaks, giving rise to the characteristic ulcer with its hardened gristly base. In other cases again the ulcer is first formed, and the induration follows later on. The node or induration which forms the primary lesion of syphilis appears under the microscope at first as a dense in- filtration of the connective tissue with small cells (Fig. 34 a). The process may not advance beyond this: but in many cases the infiltrating cells proceed to develope further. From the small round-cells larger formative cells (Fig. 34 b), and not infrequently giant-cells (c), are formed. The development does not advance beyond this point: the greater part of the affected tissue breaks