140 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. dilatation does not give rise to slowing of the current, or to peripheral disposition of the white cells: mere slowing of the current is not followed by extravasation of the cellular elements of the blood. Increased activity of the neighbouring cells will not explain exudation, for white and red blood-cells will escape from the vessels into a tissue whose cells are already dead. Cohnheim has shown that if the circulation through a vessel is interrupted for a certain time (in frogs, from 36 to 60 hours), the vessel-wall undergoes such changes that, when the blood is again allowed to circulate, an exudation makes its appearance just as in inflammation. The alterations in the vessel which take place in inflammation cannot be histologically demonstrated. We infer them from the fact that the vessel-wall becomes more permeable. We must suppose that the elements composing the vessel-wall are in some way loosened: the cementing substance which unites the endo- thelial cells seems partially to give way. Arnold's researches make it likely that the cells transude chiefly at places where the intercellular cement is abundant. The slowing of the blood- current itself may probably be due to endothelial changes, in virtue of which the frictional adhesion between blood and vessel- wall is increased (Lister, Ryneck, Cohnheim). It may be accepted as an established fact that in inflammation the vessel- wall is affected (Samuel, Virch. Arch. vol. 43, and Cohnheim, loc. eit.). But it is still questioned by some whether the affection is of the nature of a chemical alteration, or a mere widening of pre-existing intercellular apertures. Arnold, who has worked much at the subject, formerly thought that small openings (stigmata) normally existed between the endothelial cells, and that these enlarged in inflammation into wider stomata. He based this theory mainly upon injection-experiments, which seemed to show that the vessel-wall was permeable, even to blood-cells. Cohnheim all along opposed the theory, and Arnold has now given it up. At the spots where stigmata, were said to be we find nothing but little masses of cementing substance. Cohnheim argued against the existence of openings, from the fact that the exudation has not the same composition as liquor sanguinis. The fact that inflammatory exudation is richer in albumen and in cells, and so coagulates more readily, than the liquid which transudes in simple engorgement, speaks for a change in the permeability of the vessel-wall. This has indeed been demonstrated by injection-experiments (Winiwarter, Wien. acad. Sitzungsber. lviii ; Arnold, loc. cit.). Cohnheim, like Hering (Wien. acad. Sitzungsber. lvti), regards the escape of the elements of the blood as due to a process of filtration. He thinks the altered quantity and quality of the transudation (in inflammation as com- pared with health) are referable simply to an alteration of the vessel-wall, that is to say, to an alteration of the filter. Thoma maintains (Yirch. Arch. vol. 74), on the strength of certain experiments, that the white blood-cells never escape from.the vessels unless they retain the power of independent movement. He would thus regard their migration as in some degree due to an active effort on their part. When the white blood-cells are deprived of the power of movement by irrigating the mesentery with 1*5 per cent, salt- solution, the migration at once ceases. On the causes of the slowing and stasis of the blood-current see Lister, Phil. Trans. 1858 ; Eyneck, Rollers Untersuch. Graz 1870 ; Cohnheim, Op. cit. 1873 ; Glax and Klemensiewicz, Wien. acad. Sitzungsber. lxxxtv.