CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. LIPOMA. GLIOMA. 199 perhaps more correct to reserve the name for tumours in which we have not only a swollen and semi-liquid condition of the interfibrillar substance (a substance normally containing mucin), but also an actual solution of the fibrillae and replacement of them by dense saline juice. Such a tissue is highly translucent, almost transparent in fact. The cells it contains are generally much ramified, though some remain rounded (Fig. 39). They here and there undergo mucoid degeneration and so perish. Pure mucous tissue, such as we have just described, is never uniformly present throughout the tumour: there is no such thing as a perfectly pure myxoma. The bulk of the tumour is generally made up of oedematous connective tissue: some parts of it may even be coarsely fibrous. It is thus best described as myxofibroma or myxolipoma as the case may be. Myxomata are most commonly found in the fibrous tissue of •the periosteum, skin, fasciae, and muscular septa, as also in the subcutaneous and subserous fat, and in the marrow of bone. They are innocent and rarely give rise to metastases. On the other hand they may grow to an inordinate size, and may also be multiple. Koster (Sitzungsb. d. niederrhein. Ges. f. Natur- und HeilJc. 17 Jan. 1881) and his pupil Eumler (In. Diss. Bonn) have investigated the relation between myxoma and oedematous fibroma. Koster regards swollen and saturated connective tissue as identical with mucous tissue. Myxomata arise merely from the swelling up (by imbibition) of the ground-substance of the various connective tissues. c. Lipoma. 144. Lipomata are tumours 'composed of adipose tissue. They form soft or firm lobular masses, often of considerable size. Their structure is very much like that of the subcutaneous panniculus adiposus ; it is made up of a series of fatty lobules bound together by fibrous septa of varying thickness. The lobules of the tumour are however rather larger than the normal ones. If, as is not uncommon, we have mucous tissue associated with the adipose, the tumour is described as a lipomyxoma: if it contains abundant fibrous tissue it is a lipofibroma. Lipomata generally arise from normal adipose tissue, though they may also be developed in connective tissues which normally contain no fat, such as the submucous coat of the intestine, and the dura mater. The larger lipomata not infrequently undergo either calcification, necrosis, gangrene, or putrid decomposition. They do not form metastases, though they are often multiple. The fat they contain is never completely absorbed, even when the patient becomes utterly emaciated. d. Glioma. 145. Gliomata are tumours.which develope from the neuroglia- cells of the central nervous system, and when mature are largely made up of neuroglia-cells. They are formed in the brain, and