TUMOURS. [SECT. VI. 254 Duzan, Da cancer chez les enfants Paris 1876; Ahlfeld, Arch. f. Gyiuik. xvi ; Rohhek, Das primiirc AHerencarcinom Ziirich 1874; Maas, Berl. klin. Woch. 47, 1880; C. Vogt, Ueber angeb. Lipome In. Diss. Berlin 1876; Chiaki, Jahrb. d. Kinderhcilk. xiv; Weigert, Virch. Arch. vol. 67 (renal adenoma). Many authorities are of opinion that Cohnheim's theory is strongly borne out by the experiments of Zahn (Sur le sort des tissus emplanes dam Vor- ganisme, International Med. Congress, Geneva 1873) and Leopold (Virch. Arch. vol. 85). They took bits of cartilage from a living foetal rabbit, and transplanted them into the peritoneal cavity and anterior chamber of the eye of an adult rabbit. The cartilage continued to grow, while pieces of cartilage taken from animals after birth were merely absorbed. This scarcely seems sufficient ground for Cohnheim's generalisation. The faculty of growing after transplantation is not manifested by all foetal tissues : many or most of them are dissolved and absorbed by the disintegrating action of the fixed and migratory cells of the new matrix (Leopold, Arch. f. GynLlk. xvin). These experiments only show that foetal cartilage has the power of persisting and even of growing for a time—in spite of defective nutrition, and the absorbent action of the cells of the other tissues. 180. The inadequacy of the evidence for the existence of germinal embryonic rudiments in the adult tissues makes it appear a somewhat bold step to ascribe an embryonic origin to all tumours whatsoever. The observed and recorded cases do not justify us in saying more than that some tumours arise in rudimental structures, which were histologically distinguishable from the normal tissues before the tumour began to grow. And even in saying so much we must not interpret the term embryonic too literally. Embry- onic formations are such as possess a structure resembling that of undeveloped tissue—an indefinite structure preceding the defini- tive or specialised structure. Tissues that are merely misdeveloped, pieces of tissue (such as epithelium or gland-tissue) displaced from their proper seat and transplanted elsewhere, as in the case of accessory glands and dermoid cysts, are not what we understand by embryonic tissues. The class of tumours referable to embryonic rudiments will be somewhat enlarged, if we enlarge the signification of the term em- bryonic so as to include under it all tissues in process of active and energetic growth. So long as an organ continues to grow, so long are multitudes of new cells formed in it. These formative cells may be called embryonic, inasmuch as they continue to multiply actively and so are nearer akin to the cells of the embryo than to those of mature tissue. In this way osteoblasts and osteoclasts and the prolifera- ting cartilage of growing bone, the cells of the enlarging uterus in pregnancy, the tissue of the mamma preparing for lactation, all might be described as embryonic. If the hypothesis be thus extended, a whole series of tumours will certainly be comprehended under it. When, for instance, a tumour developes in the mamma or uterus in connexion with parturition, or a sarcoma or enchon- droma forms in bone, periosteum, or marrow during ossification, it is not difficult to believe that the same cells which are building up the normal tissue may also give rise to the tumour.