[SECT. VI. 214 TUMOURS. in connective tissue. The multiplication sometimes occurs in the substance of non-vascular cartilage or bone away from the me- dullary spaces, and thus the part played by the individual cells within their cavities is very readily followed (Ziegler, Virch. Arch. vol. 73). In connective tissue it is less easy to exclude the possibility of cell-infiltration from neighbouring parts. Virchow has thus shown that sarcoma-cells may arise by proliferous multiplication from connective-tissue cells of perfectly normal aspect. This is the process in a large number of cases; but it may vary to this extent—that the development begins in tissue which is already morbidly altered. Thus new-formed cartilage may pass into sarcoma by over-intense proliferous growth of the cartilage- cells, and disappearance of the matrix-substance. It is of great interest to note that cells, which form part of what we might call congenital heteroplastic foci, may often serve as the starting point of a sarcoma. Congenital warts and pigment- spots are specially remarkable for this. The transformation into sarcomatous tissue is effected b}^ the growth and multiplication of the nests of cells that are always found in such spots. Summing up what we know of the development of sarcoma we may say—that sarcomatous tissue may arise either from connective tissues which up to then seem normal, or from tissues that are to be regarded as already morbid. Eeferences on the genesis of Sarcoma:—Virchow, Die hr. Geschiviilste n; R. Maier, Allg. path. Anat.; Perls, Allg. path. Anat.; Bizzozero, Med. Jahrb. iv, 1878; Billroth, A rch. f. klin. Chir. xi; Steudener, Virch. Arch. vol. 59; Sokolow, Virch. Arch. vol. 57; Cornil and Ranvler, Man. Path. Hist. vol. I. 157. The form and mode of growth of the cells varies much in different varieties of sarcoma. The intercellular substance is sometimes scanty, soft, and stringy: in other cases its texture approaches that of the mature normal tissue. The various varieties are distinguished according to the constitution of the ground-substance as well as of the cells, but chiefly of the cells. That constituent is taken as characteristic, which prevails in the tumour in question. Seeing that a sarcoma is continually in process of growth, it always contains some parts which are as yet immature, and merely represent an earlier stage of development of the tumour. In settling the classification of the tumour such parts are not taken into account. The texture of the sarcoma, as made out by the unaided eye, varies much in the different forms. In its mature condition it is generally more or less sharply marked off from its surroundings. It may occur in any locality where connective tissues are found, but the frequency of its occurrence is different in different tissues. Thus it is much commoner in the skin, fasciae, intermuscular fibrous tissue, bone, periosteum, lymphatic glands, brain, and ovary—than in the liver, lungs, intestine, or uterus.