37 CHAP. III.] DOUBLE MONSTROSITIES AND MALFORMATIONS. What has above been said of the teratomata applies also to these inclusions. In most cases so described, we have to do not with the enclosure of one foetus by another, but with a pathologi- cal growth within the body of a single aberrant foetus. Perls has brought together the literature of acardiac monstrosities in his Allgemeine Pathologie Part ir, p. 319. The above theory concerning their origin, put forward by Claudius (Die Entwickelung der herdosen Missgeburten Kiel 1859), and accepted by Foerster and Ahlfeld, is held by Perls to be inade- quate. He thinks with Panuji (Virch. Arch. vol. 72) that one twin-foetus may be seriously mutilated by constricting bands derived from the membranes, or by the funis : that anastomoses may be formed between its umbilical vessels and the placental circulation of the uninjured twin : and that thereupon the latter may, as it were, undertake the nutrition of the mutilated twin, which thus assumes the condition of a parasite. In support of this view he refers to an observation of Orth's {Virch. Arch. vol. 54), who remarks that even a decapitated foetus has in some such way continued to grow. See also Houston, Dub. Med. Joum. 1836. Ahlfeld brings together the literature of Epignathus in the Archiv ftir Gyndkologie vn. Since then papers on the subject have been published by Sonnenburg (Zeitschrift f. Chir. v); Verneuil (Jahresb. der ges. Med. 1875) ; Wasserthal (Epignathus, Inaug. Diss., Dorpat 1875) ; and others. With respect to teratomata the following references may be given— Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 53 (Terat. of the mediastinum) ; Arnold, Virch. Arch. vol. 43 (Terat. of the cranial cavity) ; Weigert, Virch. Arch. vol. 65 (Terat. of the pineal gland) ; Braune, Doppelbildung and angeborne Ge- schwiilste der Kreuzbeingegend 1862. With special reference to sacral teratomata see Depaul, Jahresb. der ges. Med. 1869 ; Reichel, Virch. Arch. vol. 46 ; Lutkeiiuller, Oestreich. med. Jahrb. 1875 ; Bohm, Berlin, klin. Woch. 1872 ; Ahlfeld, Arch. f. Gyndk. vin, xn. /3. Partial cleavage of the axial structures. 14. Duplicitas anterior. The later the cleavage of the rudimental embryo is in appearing, the less extensive are its consequences. It may thus happen that part at least of the axis of the embryo remains undivided. Cleavages of the cephalic end (Duplicitas anterior) are the most common ; those of the caudal end are rare. The slightest degree of anterior cleavage is indicated by duplication of the pituitary body. Next in degree come the clefts of the face (Diprosopus), of which there are numerous varieties gradually increasing in severity from mere duplication of the mouth-cavity to the formation of two distinct and complete faces (Diprosopus clistomus, diophthalmus, triophthalmus, tetrophthalmus, triotus, tetrotus). Dicephalus is a monstrosity consisting in duplication of the head and upper part of the vertebral column, and is either dibrachius, tribrachius or tetrabrachius. The latter form has two hearts and two pairs of lungs, and is capable of living. Dicephalus parasiticus is very rare. The stunted foetus 1ms always a part of its vertebral column in common with the full- grown one. The highest degree of anterior cleavage is called Pygopagus. The twins are then united solely by the sacrum and coccyx. The