[SECT. VI. 238 TUMOURS. (concentric or epidermic globes). When the cells are isolated it is found that there are scarcely two alike in shape. This multi- formity of the cells of cancer has long been a familiar fact; it has even been exalted into a characteristic feature. It obtains in squamous epithelioma and in cylindrical carcinoma, starting in the cylindrical epithelium of intestine or gland.. The original type is only in a few cases preserved pure and unmodified. At the same time we must not look upon this multiformity as anything peculiar to cancer. Multiform cells may occur in other tumours—in the sarcomata, for instance. All we can say is—that in virtue of the peculiar mode of cell-multiplication in the carcino- mata, multiform cells are especially apt to be produced in them. What is true of their alveolar structure is also true here. In consequence of their mode of development we always find that cancers are alveolar; but other tumours whose genesis is entirely different may nevertheless exhibit the same structure. 173. Varieties of carcinoma have been distinguished according to their site and place of origin, the form and texture of the cells, the arrangement of the cells, and the mode of epithelial infiltration dependent thereon, and finally the abundance and texture of the fibrous stroma. Many of these distinctions have now ceased to have any real significance. The title given to certain cancers of the skin or mucous membrane—namely, epithelioma or epithelial cancer—is now useful only as indicating conveniently their seat and histological structure. Formerly the title implied a contradistinction between cancer of the epithelia and cancer of the connective tissues. Other terms like medullary, simple, or scirrhous, applied to various . structural varieties of cancer chiefly originating in the glands, have also only a limited application; inasmuch as an individual cancer may not have exactly the same structure throughout all its parts, or in all its successive stages. Generally speaking, the form of the cancer depends on the structure of the matrix in which it is seated. A certain group of forms are found to recur perpetually in each particular organ. It would seem most natural a priori to divide the carcinomata into two groups—those, namely, which start in investing or surface epithelium, and those which start in glandular epithelium. Such a division might be preferable from a theoretical point of view; but it is not always practicable, as it demands rather minute histological investigation. An epithelioma starting in a sebaceous gland has generally the very same appearance as one starting in a hair-follicle or in the epidermis. In cancer of the intestine, it would often be a matter of very great difficulty to decide whether the disease started in the simple lining epithelium, or in that of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. For this reason it is advisable to classify the carcinomata under a few main types, distinguished