298 CHAP. XXX.] TIIE SCHIZOanrCETES Oil BACTERIA. deeper tissues without entering through a wound. Purulent catarrh of the mucoua membranes, when due to fungi at all, is generally excited by micro- cocci from without; but these may sometimes come from deeper organs already affected, as when the urinary tract is infected from the kidney. Tins also holds for phlegmonous or parenchymatous inflammations of the subcuta- neous and submucous structures (cellulitis), associated with purulent, serous, or fibrinous exudations. In the case of deep-seated organs, the micrococci must be conveyed by the lymphatics or blood-vessels. If by the blood-vessels the affection should perhaps be described as pyaemia When the micrococci lie in the blood-vessels, they generally form colonies. In liquid exudations within the body-cavities they are found single or in chains; in solid structures they form swarms. In all places they occur both free and enclosed in cells. It is a question whether in all the affections just cited the micrococcus met with is of the same species. Comparative examinations show that in the different cases the spherules vary in size. Ziegler found that the largest of all occurred in a case of spontaneous cellulitis of the face and neck, in which suppurating and haemorrhagic patches were found in the lungs. References:—Klebs, Ilandb. d. path. Anat. I (pyelitis), Beitrlige zur path. Anat. d. Schusswunden Leipzig 1872, and Arbeiten a. d. path. Inst. Berne 1872 (pyaemia); von Recklinghausen, Verh. d. Wwrzburger physic. Gesell. 1871 (pyaemic foci); Rindfleisch, Lehrb. d. path. Gewebelehre, 1st Ed. (pyaemia); Birch-Hirschfeld, (Inters, lib. Pyamie Leipzig 1873; Koch, Wundinfections- kraniheiten Leipzig 1878, Traumatic Inf. Diseases (Sydenham Soc.) 1880; Wolff, Virch. Arch. vol. 81; Lucke, Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Chir. iv; Braidwood and Vacher, Brit. Med. Joum. 1, 1882, with a very full summary of the contributions to this subject; Kocher, Arch.f Min. Chir. xxm (osteomyelitis, infective periostitis, strumous inflammation); Greenfield &c, Trans. Path. Soc. 1879; Haab, Corresp. f. schioeiz. Aerzte 1881 (blennorrhoea gonorrhoica neonatorum, gonorrhoea); Neisser, Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 28, 1879 (gonor- rhoea) ; Chetne, Brit. Med. Joum. 1880 (gonorrhoea); Perls, Lehrb. d. allg. Path, ii ; Ogston, Brit. Med. Joum. 1, 1881 ; and under Art. 199. (2) Erysipelas. Ziegler has satisfied himself by his own researches that erysipelas is due to a micrococcus. It spreads chiefly by way of the lymphatics, which are sometimes seen to be crammed full of aggregated masses of spherules. Thence it penetrates into the tissues and forms chains or swarms. It excites inflam- mation and leads to tissue-necrosis. It can be transmitted to the rabbit, and spreads in it also by way of the lymphatics. The animal usually dies. References:—Nepveu, Gaz. m4d. de Paris 1872 ; Lukkomsky, Virch. Arch. vol. 60; Orth, Arch. f. exp. Path, i; Klebs, Arch, f exp. Path. IV; Tillmanns, Arch. f. Tclin. Chir. xxin; Fehleisen, Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Chir. xvi; Koch, Traum. Inf. Diseases 1880. (3) Septicaemia. This is a term which includes various rapid and fatal affections of the blood. Septicaemia in the human subject implies blood-poisoning with vari- ous chemical products of septic decomposition. It is a septic intoxication, but actual bacteria are not found in the blood. It is not progressive, and not infective in the strict sense of the word (Burdon Sanderson, Brit. Med. Joum. 1, 1877). But the term is also applied by some to certain specific and infective affections of animals, in which bacteria grow and multiply in the blood itself. Davaine's septicaemia is an infective disease of rabbits, produced by sub- cutaneous injection of septic matters (such as putrefying blood). It is characterised by a definite incubation-period, and a rapid course; it is trans- missible to other animals of the same species. The blood is found to contain numerous oval bacteria. Pasteur's septicaemia has been called by Koch malignant oedema {Acad.