CHAP. XI.] FATTY DEGENERATION. 81 Fatty degeneration may occur in connective-tissue cells as well as in epithelial cells. If it affect entire cell-groups or systems, it may be recognised even by the unaided eye; and the more readily as the degeneration is more advanced, the proper colour of the tissue less marked, and the amount of blood present less considerable. Colourless transparent structures, like the intima of the heart (endo- cardium) and great vessels, take on an opaque white appearance; the cortical tissue of the kidney becomes greyish white or, when the fatty change is greater, opaque yellowish white; the heart-muscle becomes yellowish; and voluntary muscle pale yellowish brown. If complete disintegration of the tissue follow upon fatty degeneration, and if the mass of detritus lose water and become condensed, the fatty change passes into caseation (Art. 39); and the tissue assumes a dull white cheesy appearance. Like the cells of solid organs, the cells of organic liquids such as pus, and those of coagulated exudations, very often undergo true fatty degeneration ending in their complete destruction as cells. In tissues undergoing fatty degeneration, as also in liquids whose cells are degenerating, there are very frequently found cells crammed full of fat- granules. They are referred to as ' fat-granule cells.' Their origin is only in part traceable to fatty degeneration of the cells themselves. They are rather to be looked upon as migratory corpuscles which have taken up the fatty products of disintegration, and so have become transformed into granule- carriers (Art. 114). See Eeinhardt, Virch. Arch. vol. 1. 52. The cause of fatty degeneration is to be sought in an alteration in the constitution of the blood, i. e. of the nutriment supplied to the cells. Deficient supply of oxygen plays a chief part in it. To this must be ascribed, on the one hand, the disintegra- tion of albumen and the formation of fat; on the other hand, the fact that the fat produced is not straightway consumed. If to the lack of oxygen there is added a deficiency of proper nutriment, so that the albumen which is used up by transformation into fat is not replaced, the amount of albumen in the affected part must of course diminish. Corresponding to the case just indicated, we find fatty degener- ation taking place in conditions which are associated with general or local anaemia. For example, if the blood becomes diseased in such a way (anaemia, leukaemia) that its power of taking up oxygen is diminished, and its nutritive value lowered, fatty degen- eration is found to occur in the most widely different organs. The same thing comes to pass in particular organs which happen to receive too little blood, either in consequence of disease in the afferent vessels, or because the outflow of blood from them is checked and its renewal hindered. Lastly, organs like the muscles which for any reason are left unexercised, and so fail to undergo an adequate amount of tissue-change, are very apt to become fatty. Various poisons, such as phosphorus, arsenic, and the ferments which produce fevers, may, like imperfect oxygenation, lead to disin- tegration of the albumen of the tissues and so to fatty degeneration. M. 6