CHAP. XXXI.] 307 IIYPHOMYC KTES OR MOULDS. Brefeld's classification is—(1) Phycomycete8—8&goi& fungi; (2) Mycomycetes =true higher fuugi; (3) J/y*'OMiyt'<;fcs=gelatinous fungi; (4) Blastomycetes = yeast-fungi; (5) Schizomycetes=bacteria. For pathological purposes it seems more convenient to retain, as we have done, the older and well-marked classes of bacteria, moulds, and yeasts. The Hyphomycetes or Moulds. 213. Morphology and physiology. The mould-fungi are hyphomycetous, i.e. they are fungi characterised by the formation of a mycelium. As they occur in man they appear in the form (1) of simple or branched jointed or unjointed filaments of various thicknesses, and (2) of ovoid or sphe- rical cells. These filaments are the hyphae (Fig. 81); the compact masses or tufts which they form are mycelia; the spherical, ovoid, or cylindrical cells, often strung into a kind of chaplet, are the spores or rather the conidia. Spores are more commonly found within the human body than any other of the vegetative forms : fructi- fication is rarely observed. These fungi are classified according to the place in which they are found, and the affection which they produce. Their names are derived from the name of their discoverer, from the name of the disease they produce, or otherwise. Such a classification can only of course be a temporary expedi- ent. The filaments and spores are not the plant, they represent merely a developmental stage of it, and by no means determine the species. To settle this the plant must be purely cultivated on a proper soil, and its various stages traced out. In all cases the cell which we call the spore or conidium grows into a germinal tube or cylinder, and from it spring a greater or less number of ramifying unicellular or multicellular filaments or hyphae. These form a mass which, taken as a whole, is called the mycelium. This again may give rise asexually to reproductive cells, which develope into fresh mycelia. In other cases sexual organs are formed, and the product of the congress of the male and female elements is either a single spore (zygospore) or a fructification in which numerous spores (ascospores) are developed. From the zygospore, or from the ascospores, the new generation springs. The former is the case in Mucor Mucedo; the latter in Aspergillus glaucus, and Penicillium glaucum—the commonest of the ordinary moulds. Fig. 81. Fungi from a favus-patch. (NEUMANN) 20—2