213 CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOUBS. SARCOMA. its characters with the sarcomata. It will therefore be treated in connexion with them (Art. 158). The relations of lymphoma and lymphadenoma to Hodgkin's disease and to leukaemia are discussed in the Special Pathological Anatomy. Eecent researches have shown that lymphadenoid tissue is in normal conditions widely distributed throughout the body. The overgrowth of some such normal deposit may simulate a heteroplastic formation. k. Sarcoma. 156. The sarcomata are tumours constructed on the type of the connective tissues, in which however the cellular constituents predominate over the intercellular substance. In this respect they resemble the immature connective tissues ; so that the comparison of sarcoma to embryonic formative tissue is perfectly apt. Sarcoma originates invariably in a structure belonging to the connective-tissue group; i. e. in formed or unformed fibrous tissue, in cartilaginous, bony, mucous, lymphoid, neurogliar, or adipose tissue. The transformation of these into tumour-tissue is effected by the growth and multiplication of the constituent cells. In favourable circumstances it is possible to follow up this mode of genesis histologically. At the advancing margin of a growing tumour we may find all kinds of transitional cell-forms, from the small cells of the normal connective tissue to the large cells of the tumour. Fig. 47 represents the advancing margin of a Fig. 47. Section through the advancing mabgin of a small sarcomatous nodule from the mamma, (x 300) a fibrous tissue d cells with hypertrophied nuclei 6 cells of the sarcomatous tissue e multinuclear cells c smaller cells small sarcomatous nodule from the mamma, and in it the various stages of development can be made out. Enlarged and swollen cells (c) lie beside the small cells of the fibrous tissue (a): others with enormous nuclei (d), or with several (e), are also noticeable. At the same time the number of the cells is vastly increased. In bone and cartilage it is possible to demonstrate the sub- division and multiplication of the fixed cells even more clearly than