156 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATOEY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. Condensed effusions of this kind may long resist resorption. It often happens that they cannot be removed in this way at all. Infiltrated tissues which have necrosed may in like manner resist resorption, and so persist for an indefinite time. Dead bone and fascia especially, which are hard to liquefy or disintegrate, may long be retained. But softer tissues may likewise become incapable of resorption, when' necrosis has resulted in their caseation or mummification. 113. Tissues which have been killed by the original injury or by the subsequent inflammation, and inflammatory exudations, are no longer parts of the organism. They are foreign substances, and they act as such. In other words, they set up and maintain inflammation in their neighbourhood. They act like foreign bodies thrust forcibly into the tissues from without. Necroses other than inflammatory, such as those resulting from ischaemia, and haemor- rhagic effusions or extravasated blood which has become necrosed, all act in the same way as foreign substances. To the tissue affected by them it matters nothing whether they once belonged to the organism or not. It is of more importance to consider the physico-chemical nature of the foreign substance. This it is which determines the intensity, the extent, the general character of the inflammation induced. The great importance of the inflammations excited by such dead or foreign substances makes it absolutely essential to have a clear conception of their nature. And we must in especial discover the characteristics of the inflammation set up when the foreign substances are of corpuscular size. Stated generally, we may put it—that in such a case we have in addition to the ordinary phe- nomena of inflammation other processes whose object is the removal of the foreign substance. The peculiarities of special cases depend on the physico-chemical nature of the substance. Foreign substances may be divided into two groups:—those which have but a slight effect or none in altering the surrounding tissue, and those which act destructively and excite violent inflam- mation. Among the first group are some substances easily absorbed, and others which are absorbed with difficulty. 114. The easily-absorbed substances include liquids and small solid matters which have no intense chemical action on the surrounding tissue. Of this latter kind are, for example, cinnabar, which is rubbed into the skin in tatooing; the dust of coal, lime, or iron, which is inhaled and passes from the alveoli into the lung- tissue ; and lastly fatty and disintegrated exudations, softened and disintegrated tissues, and such like. The effects produced in, the organism by small corpuscular bodies of the above kinds are not serious. Perceptible inflamma- tory changes are brought about only when large quantities of them are present together: their effects are thus integrated as it were.