220 [SECT. VI. TUMOURS. glandular type. The cellular elements, even when they seem to resemble epithelial cells, are dispersed uniformly throughout the intercellular substance, as in the connective tissues. There are however exceptions to this in special cases. There are sarco- mata which have a structure resembling that of gland-tissue, or of epithelial new growths. This appearance of structure is due in part to the epithelial look of the cells, but chiefly to their aggre- gated arrangement in groups separated by fibrous septa. Such tumours are described as alveolar sarcomata. Fig. 54 repre- sents a section from an alveolar sarcoma of the skin. The cells a exactly resemble epithelial cells: they are grouped into masses, and sharply distinguished from the fibrous framework (e) in which they are embedded. This latter contains the blood- vessels, or rather the framework is chiefly made up of a network of blood-vessels; but no vessels enter the cell-groups. This is another point of structure in common with the epithelial growths. Tumours of this kind occur chiefly in the skin, but they are also met with in the bones, lymphatic glands, and pia mater. In the case of the skin they originate in warts and pigment-spots, which generally contain such groups or nests of cells (Arts. 156 and 398). The way in which the alveolar structure is developed can often be clearly made out, especially in tumours of the central nervous system. The normal intervascular tissue is transformed into masses of sarcoma-cells, while septa are formed between the cell- masses by the fibrous tissues lying along the course of the vessels. In other cases it looks as if a plexus of pre-existing or new-formed vessels took on as it were an investment of cells, and this grew thicker and thicker till at length the intervascular spaces were entirely filled up. Accordingly we find this form of growth described as plexiform angiosarcoma. It has also been described, and not infrequently, as endothelioma. On this view the cell- nests arise by proliferation from endothelial cells. This certainly happens when masses of cells are formed from the endothelial covering of the subarachnoid meshwork and pia mater: the masses afterwards group themselves into ' nests'. Sometimes the proliferous endothelial cells of the pia mater are aggregated into small spherical nodules of a peculiar lustrous appearance. The tumour into which the membrane is transformed then contains small shining pearly bodies, made up of laminated laj^ers of squa- mous or tabular cells. Such tumours have been called cholestea- tomata or pearly tumours. The expression 'plexiform angiosarcoma'is due to Waldeter (Virch. Arch. vol. 55). The vessels of the brain, lymphatic glands, serous membranes, and testis possess what is called a perithelium : that is, the adventitia is invested with endothelial cells. Proliferation begins in the cells of this perithelium, and the vessel is thus invested with a stratified covering. See Kolaczek, Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Chir. ix; Maurer, Virch. Arch. vol. 77; Neumann, Arch, d. HeilL 1872; Klebs, Prager Vierteljahrsschr. 1876.