64 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT, III. become drier and tougher. In lymph, mere flakes only are formed. According to current theories, coagulation of the blood, or of the lymph, occurs when the white corpuscles die and dissolve in the plasma. Alex. Schmidt affirms that the plasma contains fibrinogen only. To bring about coagulation, that is the formation of fibrin, the presence of fibrinoplastin and of a ferment is necessary. Both of these are supplied by the white corpuscles as they dissolve in the plasma. Inflammatory effusions or exudations may coagulate as blood does, and so yield masses containing a large amount of fibrin. These may lie on the surface of the inflamed tissue in the form of false membranes (Fig. 1). The fibrinous masses may be made Fig. 1. Cbodpous (false) membrane from the trachea, (x 250) a section through the false membrane b upper layer of the mucous membrane, infiltrated with pus-cells d1 c fibres and granules of fibrin d pus-cells up of granules, of delicate fibres, of coarse-meshed trabeculae (Fig. 1 c), or of homogeneous flakes. Alexander Schmidt's researches on blood-coagulation are to be found in his paper :—Die Lehre von den fermentativen Gerinnungen, Dorpat 187(5. Montegazza has pursued similar investigations—(Moleschott's Untersuch- nngen zur Naturlehre 1876). For other papers, see Gamgee's Physiological Chemistry vol. I, chap. 2. Wooldridge (Proc. Roy. Soc. 214, 1881 and Du Bois-Reymond's Arch. 1881) has recently published the results of a research conducted in Prof. Lddwig's laboratory at Leipzig, in which he seeks to make out that coagulation is mainly due to the action of deleterious liquids on the blood-cells. In shed blood the plasma ' dies' and becomes deleterious in this sense : its action on the cells, especially the white cells, makes them break up and coalesce into a coagulum. A ten per cent, salt solution would have the same effect. The factors of fibrin are said to be furnished by Hayem's haematoblasts, and by Bizzozero's " Blutpluttchen." The latter have been recently described {Centralb. f. d. med. Wiss. 2, 1882) as small, very transient, delicate, colourless discs. According to Bizzozero it is the breaking up of his " Blutpldttchen " which alone determines coagulation. The true significance of these bodies is not yet determined. They are perhaps mere decolorised red blood-cells. Full discussions on the subject of fibrin and its origin are to be found in Virchow's Gesammelte Abhandlungen 1856. The intra-vascular coagulation of the blood is treated more adequately in Art. 252. It is possible that, in the