110 FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. formation of new tissue does not go on beyond the normal limit, but suffices merely to replace what has been lost. 73. Hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and regeneration are dependent ultimately upon certain cellular processes. The formation of new tissue can only take place through the agency of the cells. The intercellular substance, unaided by the cells themselves, has no power or potency to produce new tissue. The cells which go to form new tissue arise by subdivision from pre-existing cells. New cells are never generated from plastic exudations, as was formerly supposed. Hypertrophy, i. e. increased size of a cell, is in general consistent with the maintenance of the properties of the cell. The formative process which results in hypertrophy is confined to the addition of new constituents similar in kind to those already present; the cell simply grows. We know but little of the structural changes which this growth involves. It is however sometimes noticed that the cell-protoplasm becomes more granular; or that the granulation alters as its amount increases: the nucleus also changes more or less its appearance. Our knowledge concerning the process of cell-multiplication, or proliferation (as it is called, though the term is not a happy one), is more minute. Researches, most of them very recent, have shown that multiplication is attended by peculiar changes in the structure of the cell and of its nucleus, which affect the disposition of their several constituents. Movements within the nucleus are usually the first sign that cell-division is about to take place. These issue in subdivision of the nucleus. Then sooner or later the protoplasm as a whole is set in motion, and this ends in the complete subdivision of the cell itself. 74. The fully-developed nucleus of a cell is not homogeneous, but possesses a very peculiar structure. This is clearly to be made out, by appropriate handling, under the higher powers of the microscope. A resting nucleus, i. e. one which is not about to sub- divide, consists of an external capsule or membrane (Flemming Virch. Arch. vol. 77), and certain contents. The latter are divisible into a denser highly-refractive nuclear substance, and a rarer colourless nuclear juice, or intermediate substance. The nuclear substance contains—first, certain nucleoli or nucleolar cor- puscles, and secondly, scattered granules and filaments. Frequently the filaments are aggregated into a framework or network (Fig. 19 a), which may be brought out very distinctly by proper reagents. When the cell is about to subdivide the nuclear network under- goes a series of typical changes of form, ending in the division of the nucleus into two equal portions. According to Flemming, the first stage of nucleus-division is the solution and disappearance of the nucleoli; while the nuclear substance takes the form of a ravelled coil of sinuous filaments