150 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. elements (cells and fibres) are blurred, and the colour is a greyish red. A reddish yellow liquid lies on the surface. After the second day little red nodules or granules begin to appear over the entire wound. These increase rapidly in size and number, and become at length confluent. After two or three days there is thus formed a continuous red granular layer—the granulating surface. It is covered with a more or less abundant secretion, which changes to a greyish gelatinous film, and afterwards becomes more yellowish and creamy in consistence. This film is composed of an albuminous coagulable exudation and numerous leucocytes, some of them with one nucleus, but most of them with two or three small rounded ones. These are pus-corpuscles. They are not capable of further development, but are rather to be looked upon as cells in process of decay. The multiplication of the nuclei is evidence, not of subdivision, but of disintegration. The whole of the new tissue formed is derived from this delicate red formative or embryonic tissue, the granulation-tissue. From this the cicatricial tissue is developed. It seems beyond doubt tbat the multiple nuclei of pus-cells (Fig. 25 ax) are simply the result of disintegration. Nothing has been observed to indicate that the division of the nucleus is followed by a division of the cell, and nothing is known of their further development. Besides, it is noted that the combined size of the multiple nuclei is not greater than that of the single nucleus. This shows that the partial nuclei have not the power, like true daughter-nuclei, of growing by assimilation of substance from the protoplasm of the cell (Kuss, De la vascularity et de Vinflammation Paris 1846; Paget, Surg. Path. Lect. 10). 108. The naked-eye appearances in the healing wound are referable, partly to the accumulation of white blood-cells, partly to dilatation and distention of the vessels, and partly to the formation of new vessels. This latter takes place by means of off-shoots from the capillaries, as described in Art. 86. No other mode of vascu- larisation has been certainly made out. The development of granulations and cicatricial tissue takes place in the following way. The injury sets up inflammation, which leads to an infiltration of cells at the borders of the wound. Large numbers of migrated cells (with a certain quantity of fluid) are thus accumulated. Meanwhile parts of the existing tissue disintegrate by softening and liquefaction. A soft texture is in this way produced which is made up almost entirely of young round-cells, with very little intercellular substance. Some of these cells, chiefly those contain- ing several fragmentary nuclei (Fig. 25 a,), cease thereupon to live, and form true pus-corpuscles. They are either thrown off with the secretions from the wound, or are absorbed, or dissolved in situ and utilised to feed the more vigorous living cells. On the other hand another set of (uninuclear) cells (a) begin to grow. Their protoplasm increases in amount and becomes more markedly granular (Fig. 25 b). At the same time the cloudy finely-granular rounded nucleus