184 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. The granulations are generally vascular, the cells small, spherical, and lymphoid: but at times numerous epithelioid cells and giant-cells may also be found. In the latter case, nodules may also develope having the exact appearance of tubercles. Sur- rounding the true granulomatous focus there are found nests and strings of cells following the course of the lymphatics (Fig. 37 e/). When the subepithelial granulations have reached a certain degree of development, they begin to break down and ulcerate (Fig. 37 g). It seldom happens that ulceration is averted by re-absorption or cicatrisation. The exciting cause of lupus is unknown. The general course of the process, and especially its progressive character, seem to indicate that it is due to some virus capable of reproduction. Schuller (Centralb. f. Chir. 49, 1881) has found certain micrococci in lupus-tissue, which he holds to be the cause of the affection. His observa- tions are not however enough to establish the fact with certainty. Glanders. 133. Glanders (or Equinia) is a contagious disease of the horse, communicable to man by direct transmission. Glanders and farcy are manifestations of one and the same infective disease: the first affects chiefly the nasal mucous membranes, the second the skin. The initial lesion in the horse is usually situated in the nasal mucous membrane. The submaxillary gland is then affected: and then, by metastasis, various other organs. The first effect of the infection is to give rise either to wide-spread cellular infiltration of the mucous membrane, or to subepithelial nodules from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea, and not unlike those of lupus. In chronic farcy larger nodes and nodules form in the skin, and sometimes link themselves into vermiform cords (' corded veins'). The epithelial nodules are very unstable in structure. The cellular elements of which they are built up maintain throughout the characters of lymphoid cells or pus-corpuscles. Owing to fatty change, disintegration, softening, or suppuration in the nodules, ulcerations are soon formed which have a yellowish infiltrated base. These grow by progressive nodular (or simply diffused) infiltration of their borders, followed by gradual disintegration. In this way contiguous ulcers may become confluent. In horses that have died of glanders, the mucous membrane of the nasal septum is beset with large irregular excavated ulcers with eroded edges and greyish or yellowish bases. In addition to these, there are other minute lenticular ulcerations, and grey or yellow nodular patches on the point of breaking down. The whole process is near akin to that of suppurative inflammation. The ulcers may heal up by the formation of irregular puckered cicatrices. The cervical glands are always inflamed and swollen. Among