221 CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. CYLINDROMA. It is still a matter of dispute whether the cholesteatomata are really eudotheliomata of the pia mater (Eppinger, Prager Vierteljahrsschr. 1875). They may possibly belong rather to the dermoid tumours (Art. 178). Similar growths are met with in the middle ear (Wendt, Arch. d. Heilk 14, 1873; Lucae, Arch.f. Ohrenheilk. (New Series) 1, 1874). Some regard them as tumours, others (with Wendt) as inflammatory products. 162. Sarcomata -which contain deposits of pigment are de- scribed as melanosarcomata (Fig. 54). The pigment is black or brown, and lies partly in the tumour-cells, partly in the fibrous matrix and vessel-walls. It occurs chiefly in the form of amorphous granules; but there are generally a number of diffusely stained cells as well. Melanosarcomata are malignant. When the pigmentation is not extreme the tumour has on section a brownish grey look, or it may only show patches of brown or black. In more marked cases the section is uniformly black. Very often the secondary growths are more intensely pig- mented than the primary tumour, and this is also the case in growths that have recurred after resection. Tumours of this kind develope in tissues like the eye and pia mater, which normally contain pigment-cells, or in pigmented pathological formations. The black pigment-spots (melanomata) of the skin are of this latter class : it has already been mentioned that they contain peculiar clusters or nests of cells (Fig. 54). We do not know in what way the pigment is formed (Art. 67). It is not to be confounded with the brown pigment derived from extravasated blood. Patches stained with this blood-pigment are sometimes found here and there in a sarcomatous growth, but the true melanotic pigment is something quite distinct. Fsammomata, like melanosarcomata, are growths which arise in certain definite tissues, and but rarely anywhere else. They are sarcomatous, fibrous, or myxomatous tumours originating in the brain and its membranes, more particularly in the choroid plexus and pineal gland, and containing a multitude of chalky concretions. These have the same structure as the grains of the normal brain- sand (acervulus cerebri). They are made up of concentric calcareous strata, and form spherical or dendritic aggregations. They may be so abundant as to give the tumour a stony feel. We may here just mention the variety of sarcoma called chloroma. It is a cellular tumour, whose section has a light green or dirty brownish green tint. The colour soon fades on exposure to the air. Nothing is known of the nature of the colouring-matter. Chloromata occur chiefly in the periosteum of the skull. See Hdber, Arch. d. Heilk. 1878. 163. Some very peculiar forms of tumour are produced when sarcomatous tissue undergoes partial hyaline or mucoid degenera- tion; or when sarcomatous and myxomatous formations combine. They are generally included under the term cylindroma, though this may also be applied to ttimours of another species in which epithelial cells are involved (Art. 173 Fig. 72). The ordinary soft cellular sarcomata have now and then a more