CHAP. XIX.] HYPEKPLASIA AND REGENERATION IN TISSUES. 123 Epithelial cells have also the power of remaining alive for a time when separated from their proper matrix. They may in this way be transferred from one basis-tissue to another. Thus epi- thelial cells from the skin of one person may be transplanted to the surface of a granulating wound in another, and there grow and multiply (Reverdin's skin-grafting). This is a simple and con- vincing proof of the independence or autonomy of the cell, and of the importance of its inherent powers in reference to its nutritive and formative activity. The regeneration of epithelium has of late years been made the subject of numerous researches. Most observers agree that epithelium can arise only from epithelium : only a small number like Burkhard (Virch. Arch. vol. 17), Cornil and Ranvier (Man. Path. Hist. vol. i), and Rindfleisch (Gewebelehre, 4th ed. p. 128 ; Pathological Histology vol. I, p. 106) assert that epithelium may be formed from connective-tissue cells. No convincing proof of the assertion is alleged; while the fact that cutaneous wounds begin to skin over only at spots where epidermal cells still remain tells strongly against it. Arnold (Virch. Arch. vol. 46) believes that in epithelial regeneration a plasma is effused into which nuclei subsequently migrate. Klebs (Arch. f. exper. Path, in), von Wyss (Virch. Arch. vol. 69), Cohnheim (Virch. Arch. vol. 61), and Eberth (loc. cit.) have failed to confirm this, but found on the other hand that regeneration was effected by subdivision of the old epithelial cells. Klebs observed in the young cells phenomena suggesting contractility and the power of locomotion : Waldeter has made a like observation in the case of epithelial tumour-cells. The first communication on epithelial trans- plantation and skin-grafting was made by Reverdin (Soc. de chirurgie, 13 Dec. 1869 ; Brit. Med. Journ. 2, 1870 ; Arch. ge'n. de m4d. 1872). His method has since been extensively employed with a view to the speedier skinning over of wounded surfaces (Int. Ency. of Surgery vol. i). Schweninger has shown (Ueber Transplant, von Haaren Munich 1875) that the mere laying on of hairs, which have been plucked out with the outer root-sheath adhering, suffices to set up epithelial proliferation on granulating surfaces. Gripfine (Virch. Jahresber. 18.76) has shown that, when ciliated cylindrical epithelium is lost, it is first replaced by ciliated squamous epithelium : this is then gradually transformed into the cylindrical variety. 85. New fibrous tissue is invariably developed from cells, and the process is the same as that by which normal fibrous tissue is formed. The formative cells have been named fibroblasts. They are derived by proliferation either from the stationary cells of the connective tissue, or from migratory leucocytes, i.e. white blood-cells which have escaped from the vessels. The develop- ment of the latter will be treated when we discuss inflammatory new-formations. Fibroblasts are cells with large vesicular nuclei and nucleoli, and are capable of active subdivision and multiplication. By proper handling it is possible to make out the nuclear figures, but the subject has not been sufficiently investigated to afford means for a detailed description of the process of subdivision. The cell-protoplasm is pale and highly granular: the size of the cells varies, on the average it is about that of an ordinary squamous epithelial cell. They are often described as epithelioid cells. Not infrequently multinuclear cells are met with, the so-called giant-