71 CHAP. VIII.] NECROSIS. directly from the air (as in gangrene of the skin or lungs), or through the channel of the circulation (as in gangrene of the testis, or of the foot). Parts which are exposed and abound in blood- vessels, such as the foot, become livid from diffusion of the colouring-matter of the blood. The epidermis frequently rises in blisters and bullae. Soon the putrefying tissue begins to stink, and then to disintegrate. Slight mechanical causes readily give rise to wounds, and in these the tissue is seen to be infiltrated with discoloured blood, and it is brittle or even tinder-like. Correspond- ing to the obvious naked-eye disintegration of the structure are the profound chemical changes which take place (Arts. 191—192): and the final result is the total destruction of the tissue as such. Not infrequently gases are evolved during the process, giving rise to so- called gangrenous emphysema {gangrene gazeuse). The rapidity of the destructive process depends greatly on the nature of the affected tissue. Bone preserves its form for a long time in the midst of a gangrenous mass, while the soft parts perish very quickly. The microscope shews that in this process of decay septic organisms are always present (Arts. 192 et seq.). Blood-corpuscles quickly cease to be distinguishable, inasmuch as they break up and dissolve, or here and there become transformed into granular pigmented masses. Other cells become turbid, lose their nuclei, break up, and disappear. Fat-cells disintegrate, and the oil they contain mingles in small globules with the gangrenous mass. The fibres of the connective tissue swell up, grow turbid and ill-defined, and finally dissolve. Elastic tissue, tendon, and cartilage hold out for a long time, but ultimately perish in like manner. In general terms we may put it—that gangrene involves the gradual solution of the solid constituents of the tissue, and results in the formation of a dirty grey, greyish-black, or greyish-yellow, opaque, semi-fluid mass, mixed with shreds and remnants of various structures. The various normal elements of the tissue thus disappear in succession; while new crystalline products of chemical decomposition appear instead, such as fatty needles of margarin, needles of tyrosin, spherules of leucin,' sarcophagus-crystals' of triple phosphates, and granules of black or brown pigment. In the later stages of putrefaction, mould-fungi at times make their appearance on parts exposed to the air (Art. 221). Further details of the tissue-changes in Gangrene may be found in Demme, Ueber die Veranderungen dar Gewebe bei Brand Frankfort 1857; and in EiNDPi.EiscH, Pathological Histology (Sydenham Society). See also Chauveau, Necrobiose et gangrene Paris 1873 ; Paciet, Surgical Pathology. Putrid decomposition, and therefore also gangrene, can arise only through the agency of micro-organisms. Furthermore, the presence of a certain propor- tion of water in the tissue is essential. If the tissue dry up, the development of septic organisms ceases, or is at least seriously retarded; and with it also bhe process of decomposition. The chemical products of the gangrenous decomposition of the tissues are hydrocarbons, ammonium sulphide, sulphu- retted hydrogen, valerianic acid, butyric acid, &o. ; and ultimately carbonic acid, ammonia, and water.