312 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. filaments which interlace to form an envelope for it; and also a thicker filament lying in the centre and constituting the germinal or sporiferous element, which takes the form of a branching tube. The densely-packed enveloping filaments subdivide freely, so as to produce a compact and coherent mass of cells. The cells increase greatly in size, and their walls become firm and hard; so that the structure appears at last as a firm ball or tuber, looking like a yellow grain of sand. This is called the sclerotium, and may be preserved in the dry state for many months together. On germinating ascogenous filaments are developed within the carpogonium and grow out into threads, some of which are stout, while others are slender. The latter have to do with the absorption of nutriment from the enveloping capsular tissue, the former with the process of fructification. Clusters of asci are developed upon them, each containing eight spores. The whole of the enveloping tissue is ultimately absorbed, with the exception of the brownish outer layers. The asci and the filaments likewise vanish, and after some months we have left merely a hollow capsule filled with a multitude of bright yellow spores. From these spores or ascospores an ordinary mycelium is again reproduced. 218. The life-history of a few of the most common of the filamentous fungi, some of them occurring in the human body, exemplifies the fact that the various forms have various modes of development and reproduction. In some the process of reproduc- tion is very simple. The mycelium gives rise by subdivision and abstriction to separate cells or conidia, which have the faculty of existing independently, and of developing a fresh mycelium. In others a second more complex but still asexual mode obtains: the mycelium shoots out specially constructed conidiophores or sporan- giophores, and these bear sporangia, or sterigmata. In or upon these receptacles are developed reproductive cells, which we term conidia or spores. But there is a third or sexual mode of propagation. In this two equivalent cells unite to form a new cell—the zygospore (as in Mucor) or true resting-spore: or a female organ developes—the carpogonium—which, fructified by the agency of a male organ or pollinodium, developes a germinal or ascogenous organ; and this again by a process of branching and subdivision produces asci or spore-tubes containing the true spores or ascospores. From these the cycle of development may begin once more. This sexual reproduction may either go on simultaneously with the asexual modes, or an alternation of generations may take place. That is to say, from a conidium a mycelium is developed which possesses sexual organs, and from these is sexually generated an asexual plant. This bears ascospores, and they again form a mycelium which produces conidia. It is not to be forgotten, however, that strict alternation of this kind rarely occurs. Without