[SECT. VII, 292 PARASITES. vancecl stage of the disease. We know indeed in the case of many bacterial affections that, by the time the tissue-changes occasioned by the invasion are complete, all trace of bacteria has long disappeared. 204. The micrococci are among the most important of the pathogenous bacteria. They are the fungi most frequently found* in connexion with infective disease. In the first place they occur in various wound-affections, such as pyaemia, and erysipelas simple or phlegmonous; and that not merely in the wound itself, but in its neighbourhood and even in distant organs. In this last case they are diffused through the lymphatics and blood-vessels. They also occur in internal suppurations like metritis, puerperal peritonitis, infective osteomyelitis and periostitis, and in strumous inflamma- tions, meningitis, cerebral abscess, &c. Among infective diseases of another kind we have to mention diphtheria, small-pox, measles, vaccinia, scarlatina, endocarditis, pyelitis, haemophilia neonatorum, acute atrophy of the liver, croupous pneumonia, gonorrhoea, &c. In all of these micrococci have been seen scattered through the tissues, partly as masses of zoogloea, partly as chains or chaplets. It would seem as if in some diseases' zoogloea, in others chaplets or swarms, were chiefly formed. The spherules are of various sizes: but this character of size is not enough to enable us to . distinguish between specific forms. We have as yet but few results of culture-experiments on these bodies, so that their life-history is little known. The micro- cocci are therefore distinguished merely by the disease to which they are related, and so we speak of Micrococcus septicus, erysipelatis, variolae, diphtheriticus, &c. The part played by these micrococci (which are not found in every case) is by no means certainly determined. Of some we can only say that they are frequently or always found in connexion with the corresponding disease (small-pox, scarlatina, measles, haemophilia neonatorum). Of others (as in wound-infections) we know, by experimental investigations, that they are only able to attack the tissues when they find in the system poisonous products of tissue-necrosis, or of fermentive decomposition set up by bacteria like themselves. Of many (such as those found in simple and phlegmonous erysipelas) we have every ground for believing that they can develope in the system without any special auxiliary conditions (other than slight traumatic injury). We shall here consider briefly the evidence for the bacterial nature of some of the infective diseases. (1) Purulent inflamma'ions ; cellulitis; purulent catarrh. There can be no doubt that micrococci are the exciting causes in many inflammatory processes associated with the formation of pus. This is true not only of purulent affections of the skin and mucous membranes, but also of suppurations in the deej3er structures of the body. Many of these affections start in wounds, but in others it is impossible to make out any surface-injury, and we are constrained to admit that the micrococci have penetrated into the