PARASITES. 2G6 [SECT. VII. by only a small quantity of gelatinous matter. The peripheral spherules grow into minute motile bacteria, which tend to move away from the mass, and thus further the diffusion of the organisms through the nutrient liquid. The highest stage of their development is reached in the formation of a matted tuft of unbranched filaments. The monadina form loose balls, from which motile monads or vibrios break away. These grow into rodlets which are relatively short and broad; and these again subdivide; they probably increase also by conjugation. They then pass into a resting state, and lie quietly alongside each other. Lastly they break up into spherules; it is rare for them to form tufts or clusters. They require oxygen, and thrive better on albumen than on gelatine. It is not yet certainly known whether Bacterium termo produces spores or not. It has been described as possessing flagclla by Dallinger and Drysdale {Month. Mic. Joum. xiv), and by Koch (Beitriige zur Biol. 1877). 186. The Desmobacteria (or Filobacteria) are cylindrical rodlets of varying length; some of them are thick, and some slender and delicate. Cohn describes a straight form which he calls Bacillus, and a wavy or curved form which he calls Vibrio. Bacillus increases by transverse subdivision, and frequently forms a long string (Fig. 74,6) commonly referred to as a leptothrix (Hallier). It is not always easy to make out that the string is made up of distinct rodlets. In other cases bacilli form swarms. Many bacilli pass through both a resting state and a swarming state. Many are provided with a flagellum or cilium, which acts as an organ of locomotion (Fig. 74,8). The best representatives of this genus at present known are B. subtilis (Fig. 74, 6), B. anthracis (Fig. 74, 7), B. tuberculosis (Fig. 80), and B. leprae (Fig. 74, 9). The various specific forms are distinguished by their general size, and by the relation of their length to their breadth. Some of them are cut off square at the ends, others are rounded off or pointed. Even more marked differences than these become apparent when the various forms are cultivated in nutrient liquids. ' Cultures' of this kind have been made by Cohn, Koch, Klebs, Brefeld, Prazmowski, Lister, Naegeli, Buchner, Klein, and many others, and we have thus come to know some- thing of the life-history of many of the varieties. Cohn bred the B. subtilis in hay-infusions; Koch the B. anthracis found in the blood and tissues of animals suffering from splenic fever; and also the B. tuberculosis (Art. 206). The life-histories of the different species differ in many details; but they usually agree in their main features. Features which thus constantly recur are—the longitudinal growth of the rodlets, their transverse subdivision and abstriction, and the formation of spores or gonidia. The life-history of B. anthracis is briefly as follows. If the anthrax-bacillus be observed under proper conditions, it is found in a short time to grow lengthwise to a very considerable size (Fig. 75 b). Within twenty-four hours a string or filament is formed (Fig. 75 c), which may be ten or twenty times as long as the original rodlet. In ten or fifteen hours more the clear contents of the filament become granular. Then appear at