FOEMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. 118 In a tissue not undergoing transformation, the factors favouring proliferation and those which inhibit it must be in a state of balance. If this balance be disturbed toward the side of the proliferous forces, the cells proceed to grow and to multiply. The factors in question resolve themselves on analysis into three. In the first j)lace, it is conceivable that the capacity of the cell to assimilate nutriment may be increased. Such increase can only be conditioned by an increase in the normal stimuli required for the preservation of the cell. Such stimuli are warmth, for many cells light, for the muscles motor impulses, for glands special excitations from the nervous system, &c. Increased stimulation of this kind may as a fact lead not only to intensified functional metabolism in the tissue concerned, but even to hypertrophy of its elements. Such hypertrophies, which we may call functional hypertrophies or hypertrophies of action, are specially common and remarkable in muscles and glands (heart-muscles, bladder- muscles, kidneys, &c). As we have said, they are referable in part at least to increased vital activity in the cells, consequent upon increased physiological stimulation. A second possible factor is increase in the supply of nutriment. This plays a chief part in hyperplastic processes, at any rate. A third is the removal of the normal checks to growth. Its effect is most evident in the processes described as regenerative. If we attempt in particular cases to make out to which of these factors cell-multiplication is due, we are led to see that it is rare for any one factor alone to be the efficient cause. The remarkable regulating mechanism of the vessels is so adjusted, that when the function of a tissue is increased its blood-supply is increased to correspond. In like manner when the smallest fragment of tissue is removed, the slight loosening of the surrounding texture is enough to augment the stream of transudation from the vessels. In consequence of these adjustments, increased su]Dply of nutriment plays a great part in all the formative disturbances of nutrition. Cohnheim, in his Allgemeine Pathologie, has insisted on the importance of increased supply of nutriment even more strongly than we have done. According to his view it is the sole influential factor, compared with which the intrinsic activity of the cell is quite secondary. We are unwilling to condemn the cell to play so passive a part, but rather agree with Virchow, who {Cellular Pathology) lays it down that—'the cell is not nourished, but nourishes itself.' Functional hypertrophy is therefore not to be looked upon as the mere consequence of the increased blood-supply to the active organ. If the assimilative activity of the cells were not augmented, the mere presence of a greater supply of nutriment would be valueless. See Samuel's Allg. Path. 1879 ; Paget's Surgical Pathology Lect. 3. 81. We shall more readily comprehend the activity of the tissue- cells, i.e. their behaviour under various conditions, and the changes they pass through—now at rest, and now manifesting intense formative energy—if we consider first the vital manifestations of an organism that is unicellular. In later chapters we shall have