186 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. When the actinomyces settles in a tissue, it at once sets up inflammation in its neighbourhood. While the spore is developing its mycelium and its bunch ('gland' or 'core') of conidia, a nodular inflammatory focus is formed around it, which in its structure exactly resembles a tuberculous nodule. Recent nodules consist chiefly of round-cells: in less recent ones the zone in contact with the fungus-core contains epithelioid cells and giant-cells. The core is yellowish in tint, and in later stages of the process it often becomes calcified. When the nodules increase greatly in number and become confluent, the internodular inflammation also extending, large areas of inflammatory swelling are formed. In many cases, and especially in cattle, scar-like bands of fibrous tissue may be formed in the spaces between the nodules. The nodules themselves usually break down and suppurate. If the tendency to further develop- ment be strong enough, we may have, instead of suppuration, large nodular patches of new tissue formed. These may grow for weeks or months and finally become as large as the fist, or larger. The tumour is made up partly of coarse fibrous tissue, partly of granu- lations, with the intermediate stages. It always contains small pus-cavities and other excavations, in which the fungus-cores are found as small white or yellow greasy-like masses lying among the purulent detritus. If on the other hand the tendency to disintegration and sup- puration prove the stronger, we have formed large sacculated cavities with branching intercommunicating fistulae. The walls of these are lined with granulations and hyperplastic fibrous tissue, containing here and there colonies of the fungus. 135. In the case of cattle the disorder attacks chiefly the lower jaw; then the upper jaw, tongue, pharynx, larynx, oesopha- gus, stomach, and intestinal wall. The skin, the lungs, and the subcutaneous and intermuscular connective tissue, are also liable to invasion. In these sites it generally gives rise to nodular tumours of various sizes, such as we have described. Till the true nature of the disease was made out, these were described by a multitude of names such as osteo-sarcoma, bone-canker, bone-tubercle, fibro- plastic degeneration, woody-tongue, lingual tuberculosis, lymphoma, fibroma, spina ventosa, &c. In the cases observed in the human subject, the disease has chiefly attacked the soft parts of the neck, the thorax near the spine, the mediastinal tissue, and the lungs. In one case the infective matter had entered the blood, and gave rise to metastatic foci in the viscera (Ponfick). The inflammatory growths seldom reach any great size in man: they are apt rather to break down early. In the cases referred to, cavities and fistulae were formed, some of them subcutaneous and some extending deeper. Among their purulent contents were found the fungus-cores. Where the process invaded the bone, it led to de- structive caries; this was notably the case with regard to the verte-