CHAP. II.] MALFORMATIONS BY ARREST IN SINGLE INDIVIDUALS. 29 upwards and inwards and as a rule ends caecally: now and then it opens into the trachea or the pharynx. Sometimes such fistulae have dilatations: or these may take the form of closed cysts filled with fluid {Hydrocele colli congenita), or of cavities containing epidermoid cells and cellular detritus (Atheromata). Fistulae and cysts of this kind are usually formed in the site of the third or fourth branchial cleft. Their hereditary character has been established in numerous instances. On cervical fistula see Heusinger, Virch. Arch. vols. 29 and 33, Deutsche Zeitschrifi fur Thiermed. rr. 1875 ; Behn, Virch. Arch. vol. 62 ; Neumann and Baumgarten, Arch, fur klin. Chirurgie xx; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 35 ; ScHEDE, Arch, fur klin. Chirurgie xiv. 9. Fissural malformations depending on imperfect closure of the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The abdominal surface of the embryo, which is that directed towards the blastodermic vesicle, begins about the third or fourth week to close in by converging marginal growth. This at first takes place only from the anterior and posterior ends, but after- wards at the lateral borders also. At the end of this stage the only communication between the intestinal cavity and the vitelline or umbilical vesicle is by means of the omphalomeseraic or vitel- line duct. In the sixth week the duct becomes obliterated, but it happens not infrequently that the part next to the intestine per- sists as Meckel's diverticulum; this takes the form of a cylin- drical or club-shaped sacculation of the ileum. Clefts of the abdominal wall. The complete closure of the body-cavity occurs in the eighth week, but this is liable to several forms of interruption. The slightest degree of abnormality is that in which a peritoneal protrusion, containing a coil of intestine, per- sists at the site of the umbilicus. This forms a hemispherical bulging, from the apex of which the umbilical cord arises (Hernia funis). This malformation is common ; the sac is usually small; it is less usual for the hiatus in the abdominal wall to be considerable. Cases however occur in which a fissure extends for nearly the entire length of the anterior belly-wall (Gastroschisis or Fissura abdominalis); this may even extend to the thorax (Thoraco-gastro- schisis). In the latter case the development of the laminae late- rales towards the umbilical vesicle must have been very early arrested. It is even possible for the funis to be absent altogether, and then the umbilical vessels pass direct to the placenta. Oc- casionally the fissure is altogether unclosed: in other instances a kind of hernial sac is formed by the peritoneum and the amnion stretched over it. Now and then we find that the abdominal wall is duly closed in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus, while a fissure persists either above it or below it. If below it, the fissure is usually associated with imperfect closure of the allantois and so of the