327 CHAP. XXXII.] NEMATODA. is much thicker; in the female (B) it is straight and cylindrical, in the male (A) it is rolled into a flat spiral and furnished with a spiculum. The eggs (Fig. 93) are prolate spheroids, 50 micromm. in length. They have a thick brown shell, with a peg-shaped glassy-looking projection at each pole. The first stage of development is passed in water or moist earth. It is very protracted, lasting even in the warm season for four or five months; and in cold weather for a longer time still. The eggs resist cold and drying extremely well. 231. Anchylostoma or Sclerostoma duodenale (Dochmius or Strongylus duodenalis) is a small worm infesting the upper part of the small intestine. The female is cylindrical and 6—18 mm. long, the male 6—10 mm. The head-end (Fig. 94) is bent towards the dorsal surface and is furnished with a bulging oral capsule. This is cleft almost throughout on the dorsal surface, the cleft being covered by two chitinous lamellae. On the ventral lip are four curved teeth, on the dorsal lip aTe two straight ones. These are all held together by chitinous clasp-like structures. Beneath the dorsal cleft a conical projection rises from the interior of the capsule. The male at its posterior end has a three-lobed bursa, and two thin spicula looking like slender fish-bones. The posterior part of the female becomes gradually thinner and ends in an awl-shaped spine. The vulva lies behind the middle point. The oval eggs are 44—67 micromm. long and 23—40 broad. They pass through their first developmental stages in the human intestine; in the next stages they inhabit dirty or muddy waters; thence they again obtain access to the alimentary tract, and there grow to maturity. Their presence in the small intestine is not free from danger. The worm gnaws into the mucous membrane with its teeth until it reaches the submucous coat, and thence it sucks its fill of blood. The point attacked is recognisable as a small ecchymosis, in the middle of which is a white spot with a central punctate aperture. This aperture has contained the head. Occasionally small blood-filled cavities are found in the mucous membrane, each containing a coiled-up worm. When present in number these parasites give rise to serious haemorrhages, which produce intense anaemia in the patient (the Egyptian chlorosis). The parasite is common in the tropics. According to Griesinger and Bilharz a great proportion (something like 25 per cent.) of the natives of Egypt suffer from it. Wucherer says it is also common in Brazil. McConnell has met with it in India {Lancet 1, 1882). Within the last few years it has been very frequently observed among the workmen engaged in the St. Gothard tunnel. References to Anchjlostoma:—Griesinger, Arch, f, phys, Heilk. 1854 ; Wucherer, Arch.f. him. Med. xn, 1872 ; Bilharz, Zeitsch./. wiss. Zool. iv;