148 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. periosteum generates new bone, &c. (Arts. 84—89). By and by the lost tissue is replaced by new tissue after its kind. It may some- times even happen that the amount of new tissue produced is in excess of what is needed, and hyperplasia succeeds inflammation. This will happen when the excessive nutrition of the tissue, which usually follows upon inflammation, is kept up for a considerable time. The magnitude of the defect which can be filled up in this way, and the fitness of the new tissue to replace the old, are matters depending on the regenerative power of the affected structures. As we know, this differs greatly in different tissues (Arts. 84—89). The lining epithelia are able.to cover over large denudations of surface, and, as in catarrhal desquamation, may be reproduced again and again. But it would seem that brain-tissue has no power to form a single fresh ganglion-cell. For the efficient causes which call forth regenerative or hyper- plastic proliferation, we refer the reader to Arts. 78—82. Here we have only to remind him once more that it is not the agency or noxa which excited the inflammation which now excites the cells to multiply, by some kind of direct stimulus. Multiplication is completely independent of the original cause of the inflammation. It is simply the result of changes in the vital conditions or environment of the cells; and these changes are the result of the inflammatory process itself. 105. If the inflammation continues for a time and is not too intense, and if the circulation is not too seriously interfered with, so that a good blood-supply is continuously kept up, we have all that is needed for the production of inflammatory tissue. The cells which build up the new tissue are the migrated white blood- cells or leucocytes : the new tissue which they form is described as granulation-tissue and cicatricial tissue. The most important factor in this plastic process is the formation of new blood-vessels. These alone make it possible to keep the young formative tissue supplied with adequate nutriment. The factors which cause the inflammatory process to take on a formative or constructive character are not always the same. We must in general assume that some cause is acting which keeps up the morbid alteration in the vessel-walls, and so gives the inflam- mation in some degree a chronic character. In open wounds the inflammation is kept up by contact with the air, with the floating matters suspended in it, with the dressings, with the secretions from the surface. This continues till the skin, growing over from the margins of the wound, at length protects the vascular tissue from further irritation. In subcutaneous necroses following on acute exudative inflammation, the dead tissues or dead exudations are enough to maintain a certain irritation in their neighbourhood, especially as they undergo certain chemical changes before they are finally absorbed. In other cases, the original cause of injury