97 CHAP. XV.] INFILTRATION OF THE TISSUES WITH SALTS. Litten affirms (Der haemorrhagische Infarct 1879) that calcification de- pends on a necrotic modification of albumen, possessing a special chemical affinity for lime-salts. Kyber asserts (Virch. Arch. vol. 81) that the lime-salts combine with the fatty acids, as well as with the albuminoids. 65. Calcification invades the cells of a tissue as well as the ground-substance. Thus ganglion-cells (Fig. 15) which have ceased to live in consequence of some brain-affection may become impreg- nated with lime-salts. Shining calcareous spherules are formed, which fill out the contour of the cell and its prolongations. Fig. 15. Fig. 15. Calcified ganglion-cells. (From the brain of a hemiplegia idiot ivith unilateral hydrocephalus) Fig. 16. Calcification of the tunica media of the aoeta. When an artery is affected, the cells as well as the ground- substance become calcified. Small shining granules are deposited in the latter, which at length thickly infiltrate the tissue (Fig. 16). Simple calcification does not produce any alteration in the apparent structure. The tissue is petrified as it stands, so to speak, without destruction or transformation of its form and texture. It is thus easy to distinguish histologically between calcification and ossification. In tissues altered by inflamma- tion, such as tuberculous lymphatic glands, fibrous false membranes or adhesions, as well as in certain tu- mours of the brain (psammomata), we find at times so-called chalky concretions. They are stratified bodies having an organic basis, in which lime-salts have been deposited. Fig. 17 represents some of these con- cretions: a comes from an omentum thickened and deformed, and ad- herent, in consequence of chronic inflammation; b from a tuberculous lymphatic gland. The several layers of the stratified concretion have a uniform shining appearance. M. Fig. 17. Chalky concretions. a concretions from an inflamed omentum b from a lymphatic gland altered by inflammation