CHAP. XIII.] AMYLOID DEGENEEATION AND CONCRETIONS. 91 show themselves in two ways. On the one hand the structure is profoundly altered, on the other the epithelial elements of the organ become secondarily diseased. Amyloid change is essentially a degeneration. The connective tissues are permanently altered, for the amyloid substance being but slightly soluble does not disappear again when once deposited. It is obvious that a foreign element of this kind must seriously interfere with thei functions of the affected organs, such as the kidney, or intestine. The morbid change in the vessel-wall often leads to narrowing and closure of the vessel, and so to permanent disturbance of the circulation. These are not without effect on the epithelial ele- ments : they speedily become fatty. And inasmuch as the fibrous framework of the organ is at the same time increasing in size and volume, the gland-cells are compressed and so tend to disappear altogether. In the liver such misshapen and atrophied cells, as well as others in a state of fatty degeneration, are very often met with. In the kidney the fatty changes in the epithelium (Fig. 13 e, f) form a striking and characteristic accompaniment of amyloid degeneration. In the spleen and lymphatic glands the lymphoid cells are like- wise apt to perish, atrophied and fatty, under the pressure of the swollen and altered trabecular network. In muscle the con- tractile substance vanishes, as the amyloid masses in the connective tissue increase and multiply. 61. Amyloid degeneration, as above described, is generally a process affecting several organs at the same time; or when it happens to affect only one, it takes the form of a change extending throughout the entire organ. But in addition to this diffused form we find a more local one, presenting the appearance either of circumscribed foci of degeneration, or of amyloid concretions. These localised amyloid formations occur, so far as we know, only in tissues which have already undergone morbid change. They are especially apt to follow in the wake of inflammations, either early in the process of granulation, or later when cicatricial tissue has been formed. They are also found in tumours which are undergoing retrogressive change. Small single foci may be formed in the affected tissue, or they may be confined to the walls of the vessels. In other cases the greater part of the tissue degenerates together; nodular patches are formed, consisting almost wholly of amyloid substance, and often assuming a woody hardness of texture. Such formations have been observed in the conjunctiva when altered by old inflammation, in syphilitic scars of the tongue and larynx, in diseased lymphatic glands, in ulcers of lln leg, in tumours of the larynx and stomach, and in cartilage in the course of degeneration (Virchow). In many cases homogeneous bodies exhibiting the amyloid reaction are obviously formed in the exudation-products of inflam- mation or haemorrhage. For example, the so-called tube-casts of