PARASITES. [SECT. VII. 300 the ends of the rod lets, or form bright vacuoles in the middle of them. They spread through the system by way of the lymphatics, not of the blood-vessels. They are surrounded by a gelatinous envelope and at times seem to be motile. Cornil and Suchard (Annates de Dermat. 1881) have confirmed the statements of the first observers. (8) Typhoid fever. Klebs (Arch. f. exp. Path, xn, xm) and Eberth (Virch. Arch. vol. 81) have found bacilli in the diseased patches of the intestine, and in the mesenteric glands, in cases of typhoid fever. Koch has confirmed the state- ment (Mitth. a. d. k. Oesundh. 1881). In the sloughs from the intestinal ulcers long and short bacilli have been seen, in the lymphatic glands only the short ones. The latter are found also in the vessels of various organs, especially the spleen, kidneys, and liver. They are probably the exciting cause of the disease. Maragliano has found similar bacilli in the blood of living typhoid patients (Cent. f. med. Wiss. 41, 1882). The above results seem at first sight to disagree with those of Fischl and Eppinger (Deitrage z. path. Anat. II Prague 1880), Letzerich (Arch. f. exp. Path, ix), and Tizzoni (Studj di pat. sperim. sulla gen. d. tifo abdom. Milan 1880). These observers detected micrococci. It is possible that micrococci may settle in the typhoid ulcers by way of a secondary invasion. (9) Tuberculosis. Koch's Bacillus tubercidosis, mentioned already in Art. 127, grows in gelatine impregnated with blood-serum between the temperatures of 30° and 40° C, but not beyond these limits. It cannot therefore complete its develop- ment outside the body, at least in temperate climates. In most cases tuberculosis starts in the lungs, which become infected from the inspired air. The chief agent in contaminating the air is the sputum (Fig. 80) of phthisical patients which invariably contains the specific bacillus, either with or without spores. The infective power of the sputum is not destroyed by drying. It is highly probable that the spores are likewise unaffected thereby. The tubercle-bacilli grow very slowly and therefore do not readily succeed in making a settlement on the surface of mucous membranes. Healthy tissues are besides at all times difficult to infect. The settlement is favoured by wounds, loss of epithelium, stagnating secretions, &c. The tuberculosis of domestic animals and the 'pearly-disease' of cattle are due to the same bacillus as the human disease (Koch, Berl. klin. Woch. 15, 1882). The bacilli grow well in sterilised ox-serum, but they develope and multiply very slowly. The colonies of fungi are only visible to the naked eye after ten days' growth: they then appear as dry whitish scales. These are made up of delicate rodlets. Each patch attains in three to four weeks the size of a poppy-seed, and then ceases to grow further until transplanted to a fresh substratum. This is owing to the fact that the bacilli have no power of locomotion, and so cannot spread over the nutrient gelatine. 207. Of Spire-bacteria two forms are known to occur in mai). The one, apparently quite innocuous, is the Spirochaeta denticola: it inhabits the mucous membrane of the mouth and nose. The other, the Spirochaeta (or Spirillum) Obermeyeri is found in the blood of patients suffering from relapsing fever, during the attacks. It is almost beyond doubt that the disease is caused by its invasion and multiplication within the blood. Quite lately the disease has been transmitted to monkeys by inoculation with the spirillum. Nothing certain is known of the habitat of the spirillum outside the body. It is easily detected by the microscope in the blood by