281 CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 197. The healthy organism is always beset with a multitude of non-pathogenous bacteria. They occupy the natural cavities accessible from without, and especially the alimentary canal. They feed on the substances lying in their neighbourhood, whether brought into the body or secreted by the tissues. In so doing they set up chemical changes in these substances. While the organs are acting normally, these fungi work no mischief to the tissues in which they lie, or to the system generally. The products of decomposition set up by such non- specific micro-organisms are either harmless, or are conveyed out of the body before they begin to be active. Settlements of this kind may however become of importance, if the bacteria proceed to develope to any unusual extent. This happens when the contents of the natural cavities in question remain unchanged for any great length of time, or when (as in catarrh) the normal secretion undergoes some alteration. The products of bacterial fermentation may then accumulate to an excessive amount, and products may also be formed which do not normally occur. Thus when the contents of the stomach are not • passed on, and become as it were stagnant, an abnormally acid fermentation may be set up. If the chyme is retained over-long in the small intestine, the aromatic products of albuminoid putrefaction will gather in excessive quantity. So too we may have decomposition in the stagnating secretions of the bronchi, prepuce, &c. All these changes react harmfully on the tissues and may set up inflammation, not unfrequently ending in suppuration and necrosis. Moreover the system in general may suffer by absorption into the blood of the soluble products of decomposition. The latter contingency is not to be lightly regarded. Though we may partake with impunity of many fermenting or decaying substances as food, we must not think that all the products generated by the non-pathogenous fungi are equally harmless. Highly poisonous substances are formed in many of the bacterial decompositions. One of the most speedily fatal of diseases, septicaemia, is due to poisoning of the system with the products of bacterial putrefaction, or sepsis. Cadaveric poison, the poison of decaying fish, sausage, cheese, mussels, &c. are very probably the chemical products of special forms of putrefaction. We unfortu- nately know but little, in some cases we know nothing, of the substances which have this poisonous character. Bergmann and Schmiedeberg have, it is true, prepared their so-called 'sepsin' and Panum his ' putrid poison,' from decaying substances; but we do not know the composition of these bodies, and they are certainly not the only poisons of the kind. Putrid or septic poison may be absorbed by wounds as well as by mucous surfaces. Septicaemia, which has just been cited as an instance of septic poisoning, is generally due to wound-infection.