RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. 62 at 54" C to 58° C for any time, the tissue is inevitably killed. Higher temperatures act still more rapidly. The lower limit within which life may be maintained is 16° C to 18° C. A third cause of necrosis is arrest of nutrition. This produces ' anaemic necrosis,' and occurs very frequently in the human subject. All causes which seriously interfere with the circulation of a part, and bring about permanent arrest of its movement, or stasis, may lead to the death of the affected tissue. Such causes are thrombosis, embolism, closure of the vessels by disease or ligature, pressure on the tissue, inflammation, haemorrhage, &c. The arrest of the circulation need not however be permanent: it is enough if it persists longer than a certain time—necrosis still ensues. It is unimportant whether or not haemorrhage then takes place (Art. 30) : this will only affect the external appearance of the part. Hae- morrhagic infarction is thus pathologically equivalent to anaemic necrosis plus haemorrhage. It is of course possible that mechanical, chemical, and thermal agencies may act together. Not infrequently they come into play successively in the same case. The effect of a given injury in producing necrosis depends not merely on the normal character and strength of the tissue, but also to an essential extent upon its condition for the time being. A tissue whose nutrition has suffered in consequence of deficient or vitiated blood-supply, general marasmus, or hydraemia, is much more apt to necrose than when it is in its normal state. Thus in old patients, and in those suffering from uncompensated valvular disease of the heart, very slight injuries are enough to induce necrosis of the limbs. In emaciated typhoid patients the slightest pressure on the skin over the trochanter, elbow, sacrum, or heel, suffices to bring on gangrenous necrosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Such necroses are described as senile or marasmic gangrene, and decubitus (bed-sores) or decubital necroses. The time required to produce necrosis by interruption of the blood-supply is different in dirl'erent tissues. Brain-tissue, renal epithelium, and intestinal epithelium, die within two hours (Cohnheim Allgem. Pathologie). Skin, bone, and connective tissue, continue to live over twelve hours. In general it may be laid down—that tissues which exercise special functions die much more quickly than those which, like connective tissue, possess only the faculty of self-preservation, so to speak. 34. The course of the necrosis (i. e. the character of the tissue- changes it involves) is influenced by such circumstances as the nature of the tissue, its locality, and the form and cause of the necrosis. Not less important are the amount of blood and proper fluid or juice contained in the tissue, and the access or exclusion of air and of putrefactive ferments. Moreover there may be antecedent tissue-changes which are not without influence on the necrotic process; such, for example, as fatty degeneration, inflammation, and haemorrhage. We thus see