335 CHS'] A. CHAP. XXXII.] Abyssinia, the Cape, and Natal, where they give rise to the disease known as ' endemic haematuria.' The cercaria abound Fig. 103. flq. 103. distoma haematobium male and female, the latter within the gyn aecophoric canal of the former. (from leuckart: x 10) Fig. 101. Eggs of distoma ha ema tobium. (From LEUCKART: xl50) a with terminal spine b with lateral spine in canals and rivers, and gain access to the body in drinking- water. The embryos mature quickly and permeate the mucous and submucous coats of the ureters, bladder, and rectum, and occasionally the substance of the liver. The}r set up inflammation of the bladder and ureters, associated with ulcerations, incrusta- tions, and concretions. Haematuria is always produced. Cylindrical ciliated embryos may develope within the urinary tract. References :—Griesinger, Arch. f. phys. Heilk. xiii, 1854; Bilharz, Wien. med. Woch. 4 and 5, 1856, and Brit. For. Med. Chir. Rev. 1856—58 ; Sonsino, Arch. geri. de meU. 1876 ; Cobbold, Parasites 1879 ; Guillemard, Endemic Haematuria London 1882. 240. Cestoda. The cestoids, or tape-worms, are flat com- pound ' worms/ destitute of a mouth or alimentary canal. They multiply by gemmation from a pyriform ' head' or ' nurse.' The budded individuals or segments remain for a long time connected with the head, forming a jointed chain. The several members (^proglottides) of this colony are hermaphrodite. The older segments increase in size as they are gradually pushed away from the place at which they were formed by the constant development of new segments. In other respects they resemble each other exactly; while the head is distinguished by possessing two or four suckers or oscula, and generally a circlet of claw-like hooks. By means of these the tape-worm fastens itself to the intestinal wall of its host, which is probably always a vertebrate. The head developes from a rounded embryo having four to six hooklets. These embryos {proscolices, hydatids) are found in the various parenchy- matous organs of the intermediate host; and thence by what we may call passive migration they reach the intestine of their final host. The cestoids parasitic on man belong to the families of Taeniada and Bothriocephalida. The former infest man both as hydatids and as tape-worms; the latter only as tape-worms.