CHAPTER XXVII. EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. 166. The tumours we have hitherto treated of have been de- veloped out of tissues belonging to the connective-tissue group; in other words, out of tissues derived from the mesoblast. The tumours we have now to deal with contain in addition epithelial elements, that is to say, structures derived from the epiblast and hypoblast. These epithelial elements are in fact the structures which give its special character to the class. The tumours of the class are therefore very fitly comprehended under the one title of epithelial neoplasms. All of them consist of epithelial cells on the one hand, and of vascular connective tissue on the other. The latter tissue goes to form the framework or stroma in which the epithelial elements are embedded. The type or plan of their construction is that of the simple gland, and they maintain the resemblance throughout many of the phases of their development. They thus call to mind in many ways the various glands of the body; though the degree of resemblance differs much in the different forms. Some of them are built exactly on the plan of some particular gland: the new-formed tissue corresponds to a definite glandular type. Tumours of this kind we call adenomata. Another group never reach this perfection of structure. They exhibit as it were only the first stage of the gland-making process. Epithelium and fibrous tissue interpenetrate each other in an inchoate way. The process is never carried higher, but the crude formation is repeated 'and reproduced indefinitely. By multiplica- tion of the epithelial cells we have produced nests and clusters and strings of cells, and these are imbedded in connective tissue whose elements are likewise multiplying. The result is a neoplasm consisting of a fibrous network or framework, in the meshes of which are lodged a multitude of variously-shaped epithelial cells. But there is no orderly arrangement of these epithelial cells. In the adenomata they tend to clothe the walls of the alveoli in a regular way, leaving open a central lumen as in the acinus of a