86 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. 56. Colloid degeneration is closely akin to mucoid degene- ration ; for here too the essence of the process is the meta- morphosis of an albuminoid substance. The details of the chemical changes which occur are not known. The material which consti- tutes the colloid substance is derived from the epithelial cells. In aged persons, a certain amount of colloid change in the thyroid gland may be regarded as physiological. The parenchyma of the gland is full of large and small spherules, which on section have a translucent sago-like appearance. They are generally yellowish or brownish in colour, and of the consistence of firm jelly. If the colloid change has gone on to a pathological extent, this translu- cent substance may form the greater part of the mass of the gland. It may even lead to a marked increase in its size, forming a colloidal goitre. Microscopic examination shows that the colloid mass is homogeneous. It encloses but few cellular elements, and these for the most part at the periphery, where the colloid change is in progress. Sometimes a large continuous patch of degenerate tissue may be produced by the coalescence of smaller ones. The formation of the colloid substance is indicated by the appearance of minute homogeneous spherules in the cells of the acini. These spherules escape from the cells, or become free when the cells themselves break up. When they come into contact, they coalesce to form the homogeneous colloid substance. Colloid spherules, exactly like those just described, are found in the tubules of morbidly altered kidneys. At times large masses of coalescent spherules occur in cystic degeneration of the tubules. In the prostate gland similar formations also occur. Colloid substance is distinguishable from mucus by the fact that acetic acid does not induce coagulation, while alcohol and chromic acid produce no turbidity. In Virchow's opinion, the homogeneous spherules, while contained in the cells, are not actually composed of true colloid substance. The latter is formed from them after they run together, in virtue of a special chemical transforma- tion. Virchow describes the spherules as modified protoplasm. Colloid substance is probably a resultant of several albuminoid bodies. See Virchow (Virch. Arch. vol. 1), Wagner (Arch. f. phys. Heilk. 1856, 1866), Eberth {Virch. Arch. vol. 21).