338 [SECT. VII. PARASITES. substance from the vitelligenous glands. Being then complete ova they pass into the uterus, which as it gradually fills throws out the numerous lateral caeca characteristic of the ripe segment. As this happens the other generative organs gradually disappear. The peripheral layer is essentially muscular, but it contains a greater or less number of calcareous granules. These indeed are not entirely absent in the central layer. The muscular tissue is made up of non-striated fibres; in the neighbourhood of the sucking-discs of the head they form peculiar bunches or groups. The surface of the tape-worm is covered with a transparent cuticle, from which the hooklets of the head are developed. 242. The egg-germs as they leave the ovary are pale thin-walled spherical cells. In the oviduct they are transformed into yellowish globules, which become covered over with a somewhat opaque envelope or shell thickly beset with minute spicula (Fig. 108 a). It is frequently found to be invested by a second covering (b) made up of an albuminous layer with granules, and enclosed in a fine membrane (primitive vitelline membrane). Without this envelope the egg is 0"03 mm. in diameter. With the second envelope the egg already contains the partly developed embryo, whose six hooklets can be distinguished. Thus the embryonic development begins within the uterus; the ripe segments are in fact viviparous animals. The further development of these embryos, which are now enclosed in a brownish envelope, does not take place within the body of the original host : they must pass into a new one. When they reach the stomach of a pig, the envelope is dissolved, and the liberated embryo bores its way into the wall of stomach or intestine. Thence it migrates, either by way of the vessels or directly, into one or other of the organs. When at last it settles, it passes through various metamorphoses, and at the end of two or three months is transformed into a vesicle filled with serum (Fig. 109), from the inner surface of the wall of which springs a new head or scolex, enveloped in a second membrane or receptaculum scolicis. This cyst or vesicle containing the head of the tape-worm is called a 'measle' or cysticercuscellulosae. The scolices have already their circlet of hooks, sucking-discs, water- vascular system, and calcareous granules. If the scolex reaches the stomach of a man, the Fig. 109. ctsticercus cyst-membrane is dissolved, and from the cellulosae with the " i J 1 J 1_ ■ r 1 i , • j HEAD AND ITS MEMBRANE. scolex is developed a chain of proglottides, tprom levckart: na- forming a new tape-worm. twral size) Fig. 108. Eggs of taenia solium. (From leuckart: x 300) a without the primitive vitel- line membrane b with it