PARASITES. 268 [SECT. VII. more mature and cause the gelatine to liquefy, they are seen in active movement at the centre of the colony, while round its periphery they stand in regular array all perpendicular to the surface and penetrating the firmer gelatine. The colony then looks as if it were surrounded by an aureole of rays. Other bacilli form colonies looking like tufted roots of trees: others again spread out in one plane and form mosaic designs. Cohn's and Koch's researches are published in the Beitrage zur Biologie d. Pflanzen vol. II, and Mittheil. a. d. kais. Gesundheitsamte Berlin 1881 : Brefeld's are in the Botan. Zeitung 1878, and in Botan. Unters. iiber Schimmelpilze 1881 : Klein's, Sanderson's, and Ewart's, in the Quart. Journ. Micros. Science 1878. Prazmowski asserts (Unters. iiber d. Entwick. einiger Bacterien Leipzig 1880) that the germination of the spores of B. subtilis follows a different course to that of B. anthracis. The mature spore is oval, highly refracting, sharply defined, and surrounded by a transparent zone. On germination the spore becomes pale, and loses its lustre and its sharp contour. At each pole a kind of shading appears, the spore meanwhile beginning to move in a tremulous manner. After a time the contents escape laterally in the form of a minute cylindrical shoot, which grows into a rodlet; and this latter then proceeds to subdivide. Prazmowski has also made out the life-history of the so-called Clostridium butyricum (Pasteur's vibrion bittyrique, Van Tieghem's Bacillus amylobacter). It forms rodlets 9—10 micromm. long, which are seen alternately at rest and in moving swarms. Before fructification they increase in thickness and become more fusiform or pear-shaped. On germination the spore swells and begins to jerk about. The membrane at one end is absorbed, the germinal cylinder escapes, and as it grows proceeds to subdivide as before. Kern describes a bacillus under the name of Dispora Caucasica (Biolog. Centralb. 5, vol. Il) much resembling B. anthracis; it is however distinguished from the latter by its always exhibiting terminal spores at each end of the rodlets. When cultivated in milk this bacillus sets up a peculiar fermenta- tion, which produces an agreeable drink much used in the Caucasus. Brefeld distinguishes an external spore-membrane or exosporium which is thrown off in germination, and an internal or endosporium which becomes the envelope of the germinal cylinder. With regard to the term leptothrix it is to be noted that all filaments or strings so named do not necessarily represent developmental stages of a bacillus. The filaments formed by algae, for example, are" also spoken of as leptotriches. 187. The Spirobacteria are divided into two genera— Spirochaeta (Fig. 74,13) with long flexible close-wound spirals; and Spirillum (Fig. 74,14) with short stiff open spirals. For the pathologist, Spirochaeta Obermeyeri (13) and Spirochaeta denticola are the most important species of the first genus. The former (often referred to simply as ' spirillum') is constantly found in the blood of patients suffering from relapsing fever, during the paroxysms. The latter is found in the mouth and nose of persons who may be quite healthy or suffering from nasal catarrh. The length of the former is twice or thrice the diameter of a red blood-cell. It moves with extraordinary agility through the blood, and is there- fore hard to see unless it be somehow fastened down or restrained. No structure has been made out in it.