GENEKAL CONSIDEKATIONS. 23 CHAP. I.] separate ova might disappear at the point of contact, and then that the two foetuses might become fused together, so to speak. This view is no longer upheld. All double monsters originate from a single ovum and are fashioned on a single blastodermic vesicle. According to Koellikek, the first rudiment of the embryo ap- pears as a round opaque white spot on the wall of the blastodermic vesicle. This is the embryonic area {area embryonalis), formerly misnamed the germinal area. The embryonic area originates in a thickening of the epiblast (ektoderm), produced by a proliferation of the cells of this outer layer of the bilaminar blastodermic vesicle. The embryonic area next becomes pear-shaped. At the same time there appears at its posterior extremity a rounded thick- ening, which is continued into a somewhat conical prolongation. This thickening is the earliest rudiment of the primitive streak, in other words it is the region of the epiblast or ektoderm from which the mesoblastic layer is to begin to grow. From the primitive streak the mesoblastic layer spreads between the epiblast and hypoblast till it extends over the whole of the embryonic area, and at length passes its boundaries. It thus forms a marginal zone, called the vascular area {area vasculosa), around the embryonic area. When the primitive streak has existed for some time, there appears in front of it the medullary groove. Thereupon the embryonic area becomes differentiated into a vertebral zone adjoining the medullary groove, and an outer lateral or parietal zone. The various parts and members of the embryo are produced by the progressive development of both zones. The genesis of a double monster may be accounted for in various ways. In the first place it is conceivable that two em- bryonic areas may arise on the surface of a single blastodermic vesicle. These as they grow may come into contact, and fuse with each other to a greater or less extent. Another possibility is—that in the same embryonic area two primitive streaks may appear and subsecmently two medullary grooves: these may remain distinct, or may in part become blended. Thirdly, we may suppose the primitive streak to be single, while the medullary groove is developed in duplicate either throughout or in some part of it. Finally, it may happen that in certain cases the duplication occurs at a still later stage, affecting either single parts of the vertebral or parietal zones, or the rudiments of the several organs as they develope from these zones. Each of these hypotheses assumes—that at some time or other a duplication occurs in parts which normally are developed as single. In the first, the date at which duplication appears is that at which the embryonic area is first formed. In the others, the duplication takes piace within the embryonic area itself. In the first three cases, the duplication occurs in structures which are axial: in the fourth, it may be limited to parts which are lateral.