[SECT. VII. 304 PARASITES. 211. If wc accept the hypothesis that different vital proper- ties of the bacteria may be brought out by different external conditions, we have next to enquire whether the pathogenous bacteria may not be peculiar varieties of non-pathogenous forms. It is conceivable that in certain circumstances a bacterial virus might be developed from an innocuous bacterium, and might ultimately be transformed back to the innocuous form again. This view has been maintained by several authors (Naegeli, Buchner, Wernich) and has been supported by various experi- mental results. They have chiefly relied on the observation that many bacterial poisons appear to become more virulent by trans- mission from animal to animal (e. g. that of Davaine's septicaemia), in other words, that by continual inoculation the parasite learns to accommodate itself more and more completely to the conditions in which it is placed. The opponents of the theory of mutability diminish the force of this argument by showing that the increase of virulence corresponds with an increase in the 'purity' (or freedom from admixture with other bacteria) with which the fungus is cultivated. If a mass of mixed bacteria be inj3cted into an animal, there will be at first several forms which develope simultaneously, and it is only after the virus has been trans- mitted through the living body twice or thrice that one form gets the upper hand, and developes to the exclusion of the others. The theory of mutability, and especially that of the transforma- tion of non-pathogenous into pathogenous forms, receives stronger support from an experiment of Buchner's in which he seemed to show that anthrax-bacilli can be bred from hay-bacilli (B. subtilis) and conversely. Koch, Gaffky, and Klein dispute the validity of the experiment, but Buchner stands by it and claims to have confirmed it by fresh results of a like kind. The weight of evidence is for the present against him. At present we are unable to draw any certain conclusion regarding the relation of non-pathogenous to pathogenous bac- teria. Clinical experience would indicate that the activity of the infective virus may vary within certain limits. And we must apparently admit that the infective bacteria have not always possessed their noxious qualities, but have acquired them somehow in the course of ages. But this is not enough to convince us that harmless bacteria can acquire infective properties rapidly, that is to say in the course of comparatively few generations. They appear rather to hold by their properties with a certain tenacity. We may therefore provisionally conclude that the transformation of innocuous into noxious bacteria can occur but rarely and under special conditions. In other words, the pathogenous bacteria, even if they do not represent biological species, are wont to maintain the pathogenous form for long periods of time. Davaine, Coze, and Feltz experimented on the septic poison obtained from putrefying blood. They at first asserted that its virulence increased