204 [SECT. VI. TUMOURS. never produce bone normally are excited to produce it by long- continued irritation, is not easy to determine. We only know that the occurrence is not by any means impossible. The diagnosis between true and false osteoma is not always easy. If the new growth is unaccompanied by signs of irritation or of inflammatory change in its neighbourhood, it is probably a true osteoma. References :—Muller, Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool. ix ; Paget, Surg. Path. Lect. 27 ; Virchow, Die h. Geschioiilste. g. Angioma. 148. Angiomata are tumours principally made up of blood- vessels. Some of these blood-vessels may be new-formed, others are pre-existing vessels more or less altered. The alteration is chiefly in the direction of dilatation, or thickening of the walls. Angiomata are not sharply marked off from the surrounding tissue. According to our definition of tumour, which makes the formation of new tissue an essential feature, we should exclude from the angiomata all vascular tumours which are produced merely by the dilatation or overgrowth of pre-existing vessels. General usage has however sanctioned a certain relaxation of this strict rule ; inasmuch as simple vascular dilatations extending over a definite region, and so giving rise to a definite tumour-like swelling, are universally described as angiomata. According to its structure the angioma is spoken of as simple or cavernous. Race- mose aneurysms, and racemose varices, have also been included among vascular tumours; and a fifth variety is furnished by lymphatic angioma or lymphangioma. 149. Simple angioma (telangiectasis or simple erectile tumour) is a structure made up of some normal basis-tissue, con- taining an abnormal number of distended and altered veins and capillaries. Such formations are most frequently met with in the skin: they are usually congenital, and after birth merely increase in size. They are described as vascular naevi, and chiefly occur at places where foetal clefts have become closed (fissural angiomata). They can hardly be spoken of as tumours, for they do not raise the skin. A simple naevus merely looks like a level patch of a different tissue substituted for the normal skin. The colour is either bright red (n. flammeus, strawberry mark), or livid (n. vinosas, port-wine mark). It is not usually marked off very sharply from the normal tissue. Small circumscribed red specks are often found round the edges and in the neighbourhood of the chief patch. The red colour is due to the wide and distended blood-vessels, which are seated in the corium or subcutaneous fat. In the latter site they are often beset with minute sacculations. It is rare for such naevoid angiomata to be found elsewhere than in the skin; but they occur now and then in glands like the mamma, in bone,