CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. TUBERCLE. 17:1 tuberculosis. Tuberculosis, so defined, is distinguished by two chief characters. The one is anatomical, namely the development of specific nodules: the other is clinical, namely the consecutive invasion of one or more parts of an organ or of the entire system. As a disease, tuberculosis is distinguished by its progressively destructive tendency. It not only destroys gradually the organ first attacked, but it seizes by various routes upon other organs, or spreads throughout the organism. In addition to this clinical characteristic of progressive invasion, we have the anatomical characteristic—the tubercle. Tuberculosis is anatomically an inflammatory process; but its course does not correspond with that of other inflammations. It is sharply dis- tinguished from them by the development of nodules both in its original seat and in the parts that are secondarily attacked: and these nodules have a definite type and structure—they are cellular and non-vascular. There is still another characteristic, but we owe our knowledge of it not so much to observation at the bed-side or at the post- mortem table, as to direct experiment. Villemin and Klebs were the first to show— what many investigators (such as Walden- BURG, COHNHEIM, ORTH, BOLLINGER, SlMON, WlLSON FOX, KLEIN, and Burdon Sanderson) have since verified—that tuberculosis is transmissible to animals. In other words, when animals are in- oculated with matter from fresh or caseous tuberculous foci, they are forthwith attacked by a disease which, judging from its clinical course and anatomical products, is identical with human tuberculosis. This character determines the genus of tuberculosis in the classification of human diseases. It. is an infective disease. The proposition that tuberculosis is anatomically an inflammatory process is disputed by many pathologists. There has always been a strong inclina- tion to reckon tubercle among the true tumour-formations, like cancer., Such a view will hardly be maintained now. The genesis of tubercle, its cellular constitution, its whole life-history, are all in favour of its kindred with the inflammatory new-formations: they offer no fair grounds for comparing it with the tumours. We may add—that the possibility of generating tubercles by inoculation with caseous or necrotic tuberculous matter is a strong argument for regarding tubercle not as a tumour but as a product of inn animation. The fact of the transmissibility of tuberculosis to animals is now placed beyond doubt. It is true that the experiment does not always succeed; for though some animals are very susceptible, such as rabbits, guinea-pigs, and ruminants generally, others like dogs enjoy a certain degree of immunity. This only proves, not that tuberculosis is not infective, but that the tuberculous virus is not a universal poison, capable of attacking each and every organism. This is likewise the explanation of the fact that physicians have observed comparatively few cases of quite indubitable transmission of the disease from man to man. Among human beings there are predispositions: tuberculosis does not attack all with equal readiness. Nor must we forget in criticising the clinical data—that it is scarcely possible to discern the exact time at which tuberculosis sets in. The clinical manifestations may not appear till long after the first infection, when it is impossible to make out anything that throws light on the origin of the disease (Bcdd, Lancet 2,1867 ; Weber, Clin. Soc. Tram. 1874 ; Rindfleisch, Virch. Arch. vol. 85 ; Burney Yeo, Con- tagiousness of Pulm. Consumption London 1882).