136 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. exudation, to paralysis of the vessel-walls from excitation of the sensory nerves (the neuroparalytic theory); Hoffmann, Eisenmann, Jos. Heine, Budge, Bruecke, Cullen, and others, to spasmodic contraction of the vessels (the neurospastic theory). In the latter case, the contraction of the arteries and the consequent slowing of the blood-current were supposed to lead to an afflux of blood through the neighbouring vessels, but in an inverse direction. The result of this vascular disturbance was engorgement and exudation. In opposition to these neuropathic theories, some authors, like Haller, Vogel, Koch, Emmert, Simon, Paget, &c, explain the in- flammatory disturbance of circulation and nutrition by supposing that the normal attraction of the tissues for the blood is somehow intensified. Virchow has formulated this 'theory of attraction' with the greatest precision. In his view, the tissue-cells are excited by the ' inflammatory stimulus' to increased activity: they thereupon attract to themselves more nutriment, and so are impelled to grow and multiply. The hyperaemia and vascular dilatation are the result of this intenser attraction. The essential and efficient factor in inflammation is thus the application of a ' stimulus' to the cells, which excites them to increased activity. Numerous experimental researches during the last twenty years (amongst which those by Cohnheim are perhaps the most funda- mentally important) have shown that neither the neuropathic nor the attraction theory can be maintained. Mere dilatation or mere contraction of the vessels does not bring about the disturbances of the circulation characteristic of inflammation. The changes ob- served in the tissue-cells at the beginning of inflammation do not bear the character of productive or formative disorders of nutrition. There is no evidence of any influence exerted by the tissues on the vessels and the blood, which is at all of the nature of attraction. The changes in the tissue-cells are partly concomitant with those in the circulation, partly antecedent to them, and partly subsequent. The vascular disturbance is not dependent on any peculiar influence exerted upon the vessels ; it is the result of injury or deterioration (Samuel) of the vessel-walls, with or without an actual lesion of the tissues. To simplify the explanation of the entire process of inflammation, it will therefore be well to consider separately the vascular changes, and the textural changes. For an account of the contributions which English pathologists (notably Hunter, Goodsir, Bowman, Lister, and Burdon Sanderson) have made to our present knowledge of Inflammation the student shoidd consult Paget {Surgical Pathology Lects. 13—18), Simon and Burdon Sanderson (Arts, on Inflammation, Holmes's Syst. of Surgery, vols. 1 and 5), and Burdon Sanderson (Lectures, Lancet 1, 1876 and Lumleian Lectures, Lancet 1, 1882). References to the work of others will be found below. 95. The vascular changes. Cohnheim's researches were the first to make us accurately acquainted with the vascular disturb- ances connected with inflammation. He showed that these disturb-