90 RETROGKESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. walls of the vascular loops in the glomeruli (b) are greatly swollen and homogeneous in structure, and the arteries {%), veins, and capillaries (k) of the parenchyma show traces of amyloid deposit. In other parts, such as the intestinal mucous membrane, the appearances are of the same kind. The vascular system however is not invariably the chief seat of deposit; the connective tissue is often chiefly and directly affected. In the lymphatic glands and the spleen (Eberth), it is the fibrous trabecular network which suffers most; in striated muscles the perimysium internum and the sarcolemma (Ziegler). In glandular organs with a tunica propria (e.g. the mucous glands and kidneys), this latter may undergo degeneration and become greatly thickened. The above account of the common seat of amyloid deposit differs essentially from that given in various text-books (e.g. Rindfleisch's) and memoirs. Most authors assert that in glandular organs the chief seat of amyloid formation is in the gland-cells, that is, in the epithelial elements. Ziegler has not succeeded in convincing himself that this is the case. In no one of seven specimens of amyloid liver could he find, on the carefullest examination, that the liver-cells had undergone amyloid degeneration. The cells were always recognisable, though at times greatly atrophied and compressed by the interposed deposits. The examination of mucous glands and kidneys yielded like results. He is therefore constrained to agree with Wagner (Arch. d. Heilkunden 1861), Eberth (Virch. Arch. vol. 80), Heschl (Wiener Sitzungs- berichte vol. 74), and others—who regard the connective tissue as the primary seat of amyloid formation, and deny that the epithelium is commonly con- cerned in it. Ziegler does not go so far as to say that epithelial cells are incapable of amyloid change ; but he is sure that even in extreme cases of amyloid disease they may remain unaffected. The notion that the liver- cells are commonly affected is due to the fact that they have been over- looked among the amyloid flakes and patches which surround them. The iodine method is probably to be blamed for this, for it fails to bring the liver- cells distinctly into view. Ordinary staining-reagents and perosmic acid are much more useful in this respect than iodine. Ziegler had recently an opportunity of examining a very interesting case of amyloid disease. The patient was a woman of about fifty, who had died of heart-failure. On post-mortem examination it was found that the heart, all the mucous membranes, the peritoneum, tongue, and lungs were amyloid. The pericardium and endocardium were everywhere thickened and beset with numer- ous translucent gristly nodules as large as millet-seeds. Similar nodides in vast numbers were found in the peritoneum, and in lesser number in the heart-muscle, the muscidaris mucosae of the intestine, the mucosa and submucosa of many of the mucous membranes, and in the lungs. In addition to these nodules the heart-wall (and especially that of the auricles) was traversed by thick seemingly fibrous bands. The submucosa of the small intestine was for the most part transformed into a firm bacon-like tissue. The nodules and also the dense thickenings were composed of a uniform substance, either structureless or showing traces of coalescent homogeneous blocks. This was deposited in the walls of the vessels, and in the connective tissue. The vessel-walls were in some places thickened ten- to twenty-fold. When the margins of the affected patches were examined microscopically, it seemed as if the homogeneous substance had been directly produced from the ground- substance of the connective tissue, by a process of swelling and condensation. Some of the homogeneous masses yielded the iodine reaction, others did not. 60. The consequences of amyloid degeneration, as regards the functional efficiency and general condition of the affected organ,