346 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. then transformed into ' spores' containing granular masses and peculiar rod-like embryonic forms. The spores are round or ovoid. Coccidium oviforme (Fig. 117) is a parasite of the intestine and bile-ducts, especially those of the rabbit. In a few cases it has been found in the human subject. It leads in the liver of the rabbit to the formation of whitish nodules, which may be as large as a hazel-nut. The nodules consist of a puriform or cheesy mass, containing multitudes of coccidia. The granular contents of the coccidium are uniformly spread throughout its body, or rolled into a ball in the middle of it. The changes produced in the human liver by the presence of the para- site in the few cases observed have been similar to those met with in the rabbit. Our knowledge of the organ- isms known as 'Miescher's cylinders' or' Rainey's corpuscles' is still very defective. They are cylindrical or tube-like bodies found not infre- quently in the muscles of the pig, ox, sheep, and mouse. They con- tain an innumerable multitude of small oval or reniform corpuscles. Nothing is known of their effect on the human system. References to memoirs on Coccidia and Psorospermia generally:— Leuckakt, Die Parasiten des Menschen, 2nd Ed. ; Lieberkuhn, Arch.f. Anat. u. Phys. 1854; Eimer, Ueber die ei- oder kugelformigen Psorospermien der Wirbelthiere Wiirzburg 1870 ; Klebs, Virch. Arch. vol. 32; Stieda, Ueb. die Psorospermien d. Kaninchenleber, Virch. Arch. vol. 32 ; Waldenburg, ibidem vol. 40 ; Rivolta, Dei parasiti vegetali Turin 1873. According to our present information the parasitic protozoa take no important share in the production of human disease. It is however not impossible that further research may considerably alter our views in this regard. This is perhaps suggested by the factihat animal parasites are every now and then detected in the blood of vertebrae animals. Thus Rattig (In. Diss. Berlin 1875) describes a ciliated infusorian in frog's blood. Klebs (Eulenburcfs Bealencyclop. Art. Flagellatu) has found in the blood of scurvy- patients very minute organisms, which he refers to the Infusoria and names Cercomonas globulus and C. navicula. Lieberkuhn (Ueb. Bewegung. d. Zellen Marburg 1870) found an amoeba (A. rotatoria) in frog's blood. Lewis (Quart. Journ. micros. Science xix, 1879) found in rat's blood, and Wittich (Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 4, 1881) in hamster's blood, a mobile organism resembling the spermatozoon of the frog. Koch (Mitth. a. d. k. Gesundh. Berlin 1881) describes a fusiform granular-looking structure with one or two flagella found in hamster's blood. He regards it as a flagellate infusorian. Fig. 117. coccidia from the human liver. (From LEUCKARf) a is magnified 300-fold, 6 and c 1000-fold