CHAPTER XXIX. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 182. A parasite is a living organism inhabiting another living organism, and deriving its nutriment either from the tissues or from the food-supply of its host. The parasites inhabiting man are some of them animal, and some of them vegetable. If they inhabit the superficial parts of the skin or mucous membrane they are called ectozoa (or epizoa), if animal, and epiphytes, if vege- table : if they inhabit the deeper structures they are entozoa and entophytes, respectively. The parasitic animals occurring in man belong to the classes of Arthropoda, Scolecida (embracing the Platyelminthes and Nematoidea), and Protozoa. The vegetable parasites are all of them Fungi, and belong to the subdivisions Schizomycetes (bacteria), Blastomycetes (yeasts), and Hyphomycetes (moulds). The various parasites are of very various importance. Many of them produce no perceptible injury to the tissue in which they lie. Others produce very serious local changes, but have no power to extend their influence to remote tissues. Others invade the system, so to speak, and migrating in various directions produce multiple local affections. Many are conveyed throughout the body by the blood or lymph, in which case serious general affections and fre- quently death itself are the result. The great majority of parasites, and especially the vegetable parasites, increase and multiply within the body, often to an enormous extent. Others, chiefly the animal forms, pass only a part of their existence within the body. The local changes they produce are generally confined to the mechanical compression and destruction of tissue, and to the setting up of inflammation. They affect the system as a whole by abstracting nutriment and oxygen from it, and by giving rise to multitudes of centres of disturbance; while many of them generate actual poisons. The Schizomycetes or Bacteria play the most important part of all. It is they of all the parasites that have most power of exciting general or systemic affections. The Blastomycetes and Hyphomycetes, fungi akin to the yeast-fungus and mould-fungus respectively, exert a merely local influence. The animal parasites become dangerous in virtue of their size or multitude, or by penetrating into vital organs. Parasitism is an extremely common mode of life throughout the organised world. Innumerable plants and animals are parasitic either for a season or for the whole course of their life. Accordingly there are few living organisms that are not inhabited by parasites. A plant or animal which merely inhabits the body of an organism is not necessarily a parasite. The term is only applicable to organisms nourished at the expense of their host.