CHAP. XVI.] FORMATION OF PIGMENT IN THE TISSUES. 101 haemorrhages, such as occur in the brain: they may remain a long time in the tissues without change. A third portion of the corpuscles shrink up or crumble down into brown granular masses. This is especially the case in the large extravasations forming so-called haematomata. These masses be- come in part transformed into brown amorphous pigment. This lies free in the tissues, and often becomes darker in colour with age. B A Fig. 18. (x 500). A Cells containing red blood-cokpuscles: in a the fragments are few but large, in 6 and c they are numerous and minute B Rhombic tablets and needles of haematoidin A fourth and that the greater portion of the corpuscles and the products of their disintegration is taken up by leucocytes (Art. 114), which gather in large numbers round the seat of extrava- sation and even penetrate into it. The cells become in this way corpuscle- and pigment-carriers (Fig. 18 A a and b). The transformation of the haematin into brown pigment is completed within these cells, the corpuscles breaking up into minute granules (Fig. 18 A b and c). The pigment may be set free again by the disintegration of the carrier-cells. Probably the cells have also the power of eliminating it, without themselves perishing. These various modes of transformation of the blood-corpuscles very frequently go on at the same time in the same extravasation. Their ultimate result is, in the first instance, a local discoloration, due to pigment partly amorphous and partly crystalline in character. Secondary pigmentation of remote organs such as the lymphatic glands, the spleen, and the liver, may follow upon this, owing to absorption of the pigment by the lymphatics. The formation of pigment in blood which is actually circulating is not carried beyond the first stage (the breaking up of the red corpuscles) within the vessels (Arts. 262 and 268): the completion of the process is effected outside the vessels. The pigments just described are only in part organic derivatives of the colouring- matter of the blood (like haematin and haematoidin). A con- siderable part is composed of an inorganic iron-compound; namely, the hydrated sesquioxide (Kunkel). This is especially the case in large extravasations, where the haemoglobin is decomposed on the spot. The contained iron being thereupon set free in the form of oxide, remains where it is and forms yellow or brownish flakes.