CHAPTER XVIII. THE CELLULAR PROCESSES CONCERNED IN HYPER- TROPHY, HYPERPLASIA, AND REGENERATION. 72. In treating of the malformations, we had occasion to speak of excessive development of the organism as a whole, and of its constituent parts—of over-size and over-growth. When a tissue manifests an abnormal tendency to overgrowth, it is said to hypertrophy. This term tacitly implies that the structure of the overgrown tissue continues to correspond with that of the normal. The overgrowth first described implies an excessive develop- ment of the organism, or organ, in the embryonic stage of existence. Such forms of overgrowth form however but a part of the class of tissue-changes described as hypertrophies. In adult life, as in infancy, certain organs are very apt to hypertrophy, that is to increase abnormally in size while preserving their normal structure. Such hypertrophies are to be met with in the voluntary muscles, the heart-muscle, the unstriped muscles of the alimentary canal, bladder, and ureters, in the kidneys, thyroid gland, skin, &c. The increased size of a hypertrophied organ depends on two factors. The several elements of the organ may increase in size, or they may increase in number. With Virchow we may distinguish between simple hypertrophy, i. e. elementary overgrowth in the stricter sense of the term, and numerical hypertrophy or hyperplasia, i. e. an increase in the number of constituent cells or cellular structures in the organ or tissue. Thus a muscle may very greatly increase in bulk by mere increase in size of each fibre of it; while the number of fibres remains the same. Of course hyper- trophy and hyperplasia may go hand in hand in the same tissue; indeed it is hard to conceive of a hyperplasia which has not been preceded by a hypertrophy, at least of some of the cells. When an increase in the number of cellular elements occurs at a part where tissue has already been destroyed by some retrogressive process, we speak of it as regeneration. We assume that the