CHAP. XVIII.] CELLULAR PROCESSES IN HYPERPLASIA ETC. 117 protoplasm has not undergone any serious metamorphosis. As to the conditions governing such multiplication, experience alone can inform us. Many observers (Stricker, Boettcher, Neumann, &c.) assert that extrinsic stimuli, that is to say physically or chemically active substances, have the power of exciting the cell to proliferate. Thus caustics and the actual cautery applied to tissues are said to induce in them cell-multiplication by direct action. There seems to be no certain observation which either establishes or confirms the assertion. Researches made in this direction have shown that the action of such external agencies is in the first instance destructive: that in caustic corrosion, for example, not only does the tissue which is directly attacked perish, but that in its neighbourhood undergoes secondary degeneration as well. It has furthermore been uniformly observed that formative changes do not begin to appear until a certain time after the injury; it is therefore very unlikely that they are directly brought about by it. Lastly, they do not commence at the injured spot, but in its neighbourhood. From these considerations it appears that the proposition, often enunciated as if it were self-evident,—' The stronger the external stimulus, the greater the proliferation'—cannot be accepted as true. We can at most admit that very slight stimuli, sufficient merely to excite the cell without injuring it, may perhaps call into play its power of multiplication: but nothing has been experi- mentally established concerning the nature, the action, or the mode of application, of such stimuli. The researches on the reaction of cells to external stimuli have been made chiefly with the view of determining the source of the migratory cells in inflammation (Art. 99). Stricker and his pupils affirm that the stimulus of inflammation excites the affected cells to rapid multiplication. The tissue-cells and their appendages swell up (it is said) under this excitation, and subdivide into new cells and non-nucleated lumps of protoplasm (Stricker's Vorles. iiber allg. Pathol. Vienna 1878 ; and Pathology o f Inflam., Intemat. Encyclop. of Surgery vol. I. 1882). Cohnheim (Lehrb. d. allg. Pathol.), Key, Eetzius, Eberth, and others have failed to make out any such consequence of inflammatory irritation. Even if the meaning of the word stimulus be extended to include any mechanical or chemical agency which can influence the cell, we cannot adduce any undoubted observation serving to establish Stricker's view. 80. If then it be true that external injurious agencies are not competent to induce multiplication in cells, we must have recourse to the normal vital stimuli if we are to explain the process of pathological cell-growth. For the due growth and multiplication of a cell certain external conditions must be fulfilled. Above all it is necessary to provide for a certain degree of warmth, and a certain modicum of proper nutritive material. In addition to this there must be no obstacle in the way of multiplication. These are the external requirements. The internal condition is the inherent faculty of the cell to assimilate the nutriment offered to it.