191 i'11A I1. XXV.] GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. anatomically between hyperplastic or inflammatory tissue and true neoplasm. The distinction must in such cases be based on the life-history of the tissue in question. It should be noted—by way of distinction between inflammatory tissue and a neoplasm—that the latter does not originate in ex- travasated blood-cells, so far at least as its essential elements are concerned. As distinguished from hyperplasia, the genesis of a neoplasm is not dependent on exaggerated function or increased activity in the affected organ: moreover it does not retrogress, but continues to grow on without reaching any particular or typical termination. The term tumour or neoplasm has been very differently interpreted by different writers. Virchow, for example, includes all hyperplasias and inflam- matory or granulomatous formations among the tumours; while Cohnheim definitely excludes them. Others take up a middle position. This difference of view is closely connected with the different theories held concerning the aetiology of tumours (Arts. 177—181). We think with Cohnheim that it is better to narrow the meaning of the term tumour so as to exclude hyperplasias and the infective granulomatous growths. Eeferences:—Virchow {Die krankhaften Geschwiilste); Lucke {Handb. d. Ghir. v. Pitha u. Billroth vol. n); E. Meier (Zehrb. d. allg. Path. 1871) ; Cohnheim {Allg. Path.); Paget {Surgical Path.). 137. Tumours have been distinguished by various names ac- cording to their external form. Nodular tumours are made up of circumscribed nodes or nodules, single or grouped. Nodules of the size of a millet-seed are called miliary; smaller ones submiliary. If the neoplasm is imperfectly marked off from its matrix, and extends into it by continuous or disconnected outgrowths, it is called infiltrating. The terms nodular and infiltrating are not however antithetical. A tumour may have nodes and nodules, and yet infiltrate the tissue in which it lies. This latter depends on the mode of growth. If the tumour increase interstitially ('central' or ' expansive' growth), it merely compresses and thrusts away the surrounding tissue, but does not infiltrate it. If it grows at the periphery by including ever fresh portions of the matrix-tissue ('appositional' or ' excentric' growth), it will give rise to the ap- pearance of infiltration. A tumour seated on any of the surfaces of the body, and pro- truding so as to form a segment of a spheroid, is said to be tuberous. If the base be smaller than the body of the tumour, it is fungous. If stalked, it is polypous or pedunculated. If it consist of several small and close-set protuberances, like the papillae of the skin, rising from a common stalk or base, the tumour is called warty, verrucose, papillomatous, or briefly a papilloma. If the papillae are very long and branched, it is described as a dendritic or ramifying growth. 138. The texture and structure of tumours are very various. A large group consist of tissues resembling some of the adult or embryonic connective tissues; they are thus made up solely of