PARASITES. 298 [SECT. VII. investigators have examined the question of the .significance of the bacillus (see Bollinger, Splenic Fever, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vol. in). Koch has made the most careful researches on the subject {Beitra.ge z. Biol. d. Pflanzen von Cohn EC, p. 277, and Mitth. a. d. k. Gesundh. Berlin 1881), and his experiments have thrown much light on the biology of the bacillus. Toussaint also has lately published some elaborate researches {Recherchcs expe'rimentales sur la maladie charbonneuse Paris 1879). Spear and Greenfield have investi- gated anthrax in man as it occurs in the form of ' Woolsoi-ters' disease' {Med. Off. Report to Local Gov. Board for 1880). The life-history of the anthrax-bacillus has already been given in Art. 180. It can only develope at a temperature over 18° C and in presence of a free supply of oxygen. Hence no spores are found in the bodies of animals buried more than a metre deep. Spores may however very readily be produced, if in burying the animal its blood or secretions (such as urine) be allowed to contaminate the superficial soil : in summer the temperature there may rise above 18° C (Koch). Pasteur {Bulletin de Vacad. de me'd. 28, 1880) thought that earthworms might carry spores from buried beasts to the surface, and eject them with their excreta. But Koch regards this hypothesis as unlikely and unnecessary to explain the spread of the disease. The contamination of the surface-layers in the process of burial is enough. Koch's experiments show that the transmission of the spores through the bodies of worms does not play the important part assigned it by Pasteur, but they do not exclude it altogether. Other experiments prove that the bacillus may be cultivated on potatoes, in alkaline or neutral hay or pea-straw infusions, on crushed oats or barley, on turnip-juice, maize, beans, lentils, and many varieties of dead vegetable matter, if only sufficient water be provided. It is therefore probable that they may normally grow and develope outside the body of an animal. This takes place most readily in marshy spots and river-banks (Koch). Spores are formed in summer, and persist through the winter. Inundations then carry the germs into the pasture-lands. If Koch's views are correct, the invasion of the animal body by the bacillus is as it were an accidental incursion of an ectogenous organism. Pasteur has shown that birds enjoy no immunity against anthrax. (2) ' Symptomatic' anthrax {Rauscltbrand). This disease is probably due to a bacillus found in the affected animals. It is shorter and thicker than the anthrax-bacillus, forms local aggregations in the tissues, and is accompanied by the development of gas. See Koch {loc. cit.), and Arloing, Cornevin, and Thomas on '■Charbon symptomatique' {Paris Acad. June 1881). (3) Malignant oedema. Koch has occasionally found in putrefying matters a bacillus which produces in animals an affection resembling anthrax. He describes the affection as malignant oedema, and the bacillus as B. oedematis. It is fatal to mice and guinea-pigs. The site of inoculation becomes oedematous, and is beset with bacilli. These spread into the serous cavities, but except in mice the blood remains free of them. If mice be inoculated at the tip of the ear, they survive. The bacilli are somewhat narrower than anthrax-bacilli. It is possible that the bacilli found in certain affections due to poisonous meat (Huber, Arch. f. Hin. Med. xxv) are oedema-bacilli. (4) Intestinal mycosis. This is a term which includes several bacterial affections. Sometimes the affection is due to anthrax-bacilli, sometimes to oedema-bacilli. It is possible that other bacilli and micrococci (Art. 477) may give rise to similar disorders. References:—E. Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. xv; Leube and Muller, Arch. f. Hin. Med. xn; Bollinger, Beitrage zur vergl. .Path. d. Hausthiere