55 CHAP. VI.] HAEMOIUUIAGE. or blood-clot within the vessel during life (Arts. 35 and 252—255). This coagulation occurs for the most part when the circulation is already weakened or arrested, and the vessel-walls diseased. The result is that the lumen of the vessel is first narrowed, and then as coagulation proceeds is blocked altogether. In the former stage the thrombosis is called concentric or incomplete; in the latter it is obstructive. Thrombi are formed oftenest in the veins, but they occur also in the arteries and in the heart. If a thrombus becomes loosened from the vessel-wall, and so gets into the blood, it is carried on by the current. In this way it may pass from the systemic veins into the pulmonary arteries, or from the heart and greater arteries into the smaller ones. It becomes then wedged in at the point where its size corresponds with the section of the vessel: and then by adapting its form to that of the lumen, or by setting up fresh coagulation on its own surface, it speedily blocks the vessel altogether. A thrombus thus swept into the vessel from a distance is called an embolus. It is generally situated at the bifurcation of an artery. The consequences of embolism are very various. Often enough the tissue concerned is very slightly affected; in other cases it may undergo anaemic necrosis (Art. 33); in others still what is called embolic infarction. 30. The bleeding which sometimes ensues upon thrombosis of a vein is, as we have seen in Arts. 27 and 28, the immediate result of arrested outflow through the natural channels. The conse- quences of the closure of an artery have already been touched upon in Art. 22. The immediate consequences are these—First of all, the circulation is brought to a standstill, and the region beyond the block becomes anaemic. If the arterial twigs of this region are connected directly with some other unobstructed artery, the latter forthwith dilates and conveys a sufficient quantity of blood to irrigate the starved region. The circulation is thus speedily re-established. If however the vessels of the region possess no such collateral connexions, the region itself is altogether deprived of fresh blood, and sooner or later perishes (Art. 33). If the embolised artery be, as Cohnheim calls it, a terminal artery, having no arterial anastomoses, a scanty influx of blood to the tissues from the contiguous veins and capillaries may still be possible. It is in this way that a haemorrhagic infarct is pro- duced. The capillaries of the anaemic region become gradually filled with blood, partly derived from the capillaries of neighbouring regions, partly from slow reflux out of the veins. The blood oozing in from the neighbouring capillaries is under a very low pressure. This pressure is insufficient to propel the blood out of the obstructed capillary system into the corresponding veins again. The blood therefore stagnates, and the capillaries become ever more and more engorged. Of course whatever reflux takes place from the veins