GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. CHAP. XXV.] I or, tissue, taken from embryo rabbits and transplanted into other rabbits, are in part absorbed, and in part continue to grow. The latter is especially true of embryonic cartilage. 141. The formation of a tumour is always more or less fraught with injury to the affected organ, and in many cases to the entire system. The least harmful tumours are those which grow slowly and by expansion, so that they merely compress the surrounding tissue. If this is expansible or yielding like the skin, the resulting changes may be trifling. But it is not rare for the compressed tissue to become atrophied or absorbed. If the neoplasm be an infiltrating one, the surrounding tissue suffers much more seriously. It either perishes outright, or begins to proliferate and so contributes materials to the general growth. This is especially the fate of tissues which have specific functions; the specific elements die, while the fibrous or connective framework persists and becomes hyperplastic. A tumour requires to be fed if it is to grow: hence the organ in which it is placed and the system generally are deprived of a certain proportion of nutriment to supply the tumour. If growth is slow the deprivation is unimportant, but it may become grave in the case of rapidly increasing tumours. The seat of the tumour is of serious import. It need hardly be said, for instance, that a tumour growing in the brain or spinal cord has an altogether different significance, so far as life is concerned, from that of one developed in the skin. So also a tumour in the oesophagus obstructing the passage of food, or one in the stomach interfering with digestion, will lead to more serious results than one, say, in the bone of the finger. In the one case the function of an essential organ is impaired by the presence of the tumour, in the other the effects are merely local. Metastatic or secondary formations have always an unfavourable significance. As the neoplastic foci become more numerous, so also do the organs exposed to the risk of injury by pressure, invasion, or abstraction of nutriment. Disintegrative changes and ulcerations connected with tumours are specially destructive. There is nearly always an active se- cretion and loss of substance from the surface of such ulcers, and the body is reduced by the constant drain. Moreover it is not uncommon for putrefactive changes to be set up in the products of disintegration, and then the risk of blood-poisoning by absorption of septic matters becomes considerable. Tumours may thus impair the function of essential organs, or give rise to a serious drain of matter from the body, or bring about a kind of blood-poisoning through the absorption of deleterious products of decay; in any or all of these ways the general nutrition may be profoundly disturbed, and the patient fall into grave ill-health. This is spoken of as the cachexia of tumour. It may become so profound that the patient dies of exhaustion. 13—2