"FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. 114 solution. If this is not done the process of subdivision is completed as the cell gradually dies. There is no general rule of proceeding which will apply to the examination of all cells. 76. The indirect process of cell-division just described will serve as a pattern of the processes which occur in jDathological cell- formation. No satisfactory demonstration has been given of the theory that cell-division may occur in another way, namely by direct constriction of the cell without interior structural change. Nor has it been certainly established that a nucleus or cell can arise de novo out of an indifferent blastema (or homogeneous matrix), at auy rate within the domain of pathological cell-forma- tion. Virchow's aphorism " Omnis cellula e celluld" is, in this domain at least, most fully and completely confirmed. But though we maintain that, so far as we know, cell-division is always indirect, never direct, we do not imply that every cell- division proceeds exactly according to the scheme we have indi- cated. On the contrary, the examination of different specimens shows that the form and construction of the nuclear figures are by no means always the same: deviations within certain limits may occur. But while the figures formed by the nuclear filaments may differ considerably, the principle and plan of the process is fundamentally the same. Even the simultaneous formation and development of three or four daughter-nuclei is but a modification of the general process. The subdivision of the cell-protoplasm usually follows immedi- ately upon the division of the nucleus; but the connexion of the two processes is by no means inevitable. Not infrequently the nucleus subdivides while the cell does not. The result is the formation of binucleated, or finally of multinucleated cells, the so- called giant-cells. These giant-cells may afterwards break up into uninucleated cells, the protoplasm gathering itself around the several nuclei and dividing along the boundaries of the regions so defined. Sometimes this happens in a peculiar way. The protoplasm of the daughter-cell separates from that of the mother-cell, but in such wise that it remains surrounded by the latter on all sides : the one cell includes the other. VlRCHOW has called such cells brood-cells. They do not occur frequently. They have been thought commoner than they really are—inasmuch as leucocytes which have penetrated into a large ordinary cell have been taken for a brood of daughter-cells. The process of cell-division takes a peculiar form also in the formation of cell-buds, or gemmation. The mother-cell shoots out a longer or shorter process; this then receives a nucleus; and lastly divides off from the parent (see under New Blood-vessels Art. 86). The peculiarity is chiefly in this— that the movements of the protoplasm (evidenced by the protrusion of the bud) precede the nucleus-division. The new nucleus, derived as in all other cases by subdivision frorn the mother-