CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. 181 In the affected organs or tissues there are usually found, in addition to the gummata, more diffused and extensive inflammatory changes. 130. These syphilitic granulomatous growths are generally of a very perishable or unstable nature. Frequently there is no pro- per granulation-tissue developed: that is to say, no vessels are formed and no further development of the extravasated leucocytes takes place. The leucocytes usually perish by fatty degenera- tion. Small infiltrated patches may often disappear by re-ab- sorption. In other cases, as in the bones, suppuration or fatty necrosis and ulceration is the issue. In larger patches abounding in cells, caseous nodes are not infrequently formed: they may be either rounded and spherical, or irregular in shape. If the caseous process is still in a comparatively early stage, these patches are found surrounded by highly cellular granulations. After a time these latter pass into dense fibrous tissue (Fig. 36), and contract into a narrow zone surrounding the caseous patch. Lastly, this zone may be further transformed into connective tissue of a more ordinary type. Caseous nodes, thus imbedded in an irregular puckered capsule of scar-tissue, are found most commonly in the liver and testis. It is these scar-surrounded caseous nodes which are chiefly referred to when gummatous nodes are spoken of. They have of course ceased to be strictly gummatous, for they contain merely the caseous detritus of the original cellular gumma. The caseous change often involves not merely the cellular new-formation, but also the normal tissue of the affected organ. The node comes thus to contain more than the necrotic remains of the true gumma; it includes all or most of the proper or specific tissue affected and destroyed by the original infiltration. Fig. 36. Gumma of the liver undergoing caseation, (x 25) a gumma enclosed in an irregular capsule of scar-tissue b artery with thickened wall c obliterated portal vein This common issue of syphilitic inflammation in disintegration and necrosis seems to depend chiefly on the nature of the virus