102 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. TEL It may be of use to mention that haemoglobin is the unchanged colouring- matter of the blood as it exists in the living corpuscles. Haematin is the coloured constituent obtained when haemoglobin is decomposed {e.g. by boiling); the other constituent being a proteid body. Haematoidin is formed when the decomposition is carried still further; it is identical with bilirubin (see Gamgee, Physiol. Chem. I, 2). The first exact researches into the nature of the blood-pigments were made by Virchow (Virch. Arch. vols. 1, 2, 4 and 6, and Cellular Pathology). He sought to show that haematoidin is to be regarded as the typical final resultant of the transformations of haemoglobin within the human body. He assumed that the haemoglobin escaped into the tissues unchanged, and was then by a secondary process transformed into granules and crystals, either within or without the cells. Langhans (Virch. Arch. vol. 49), on the other hand, maintained that the transformation of the red corpuscles into pigment could only take place inside the carrier-cells. Cordua (Weber den Eesorptionsmecha- nismus von Blutergiissen Berlin 1877) has convinced himself by his investiga- tions that the formation of pigment from haemoglobin may take place partly outside the carrier-cells, partly within them. Ziegler's researches, carried out upon specimens from dead bodies and upon extravasations experimentally produced, lead him to agree with Virchow and Cordua. Perls pointed out (Virch. Arch. vol. 39) that the haematogenous pigments all yield the reaction of ferric oxide when treated with ferrocyanide of potassium and hydrochloric acid. Even when the pigment has become black it still exhibits the reaction. Kunkel was the first to show (Virch. Arch. vol. 81 and Zeitschr. f. phys. Chemie iv, v) that the brownish red flakes found in old extravasations are not always composed of haematoidin. Some- times these flakes contain no organic colouring-matter at all, but consist entirely of hydrated ferric oxide. The urobilin (hydrobilirubin), which appears in the urine when free absorption of large extravasations takes place, is derived either directly from haemoglobin, or from haematoidin. Further details on the disintegration of the blood under normal and pathological conditions, and the pigmentations connected therewith, are to be found in the Special Pathological Anatomy Arts. 262 and 268. A distinction must be made between the true slate-coloured pigmentation of the tissues dependent on certain blood-pigments, and the slaty discolorations seen in corpses (pseudo-melanosis), chiefly in the intestinal canal and its neighbourhood. These discolorations, usually in the form of indefinite and diffused grey patches, are due to the formation of ferrous sulphide : combina- tion takes place between the iron of the haemoglobin present and the sulphuretted hydrogen evolved in commencing decomposition. 69. Biliary pigmentations. If the excretion of bile be in any way hindered, it passes over into the general circulation, and biliary pigments are thus carried to the various organs. The yellow staining of the tissues so brought about is called icterus or jaundice. "When jaundice persists for some time the tint becomes olive-green or dirty greyish green. The bile in the tissues is usually diffused through them indefinitely; more rarely granules and ruby-red crystals occur. Crystals are chiefly found in the tissues in the so-called icterus neonatorum, or jaundice appearing within a few days of birth. These crystals take the form of ruby- red rhombic tablets, and are composed of bilirubin; they are identical with haematoidin-crystals. In the jaundice of adults crystals are seldom found: generally the pigment is more granular, and yellow or brown. This is especially the case when it occurs in the cells of the liver, and in the uriniferous tubules. In addition to the hepatogenous jaundice which depends on re-absorption of