63 CHAP. VIII.] NECROSIS. that even if the necrotic process be in itself simple, i. e. associated with only slight histological change, the consecutive changes it involves may yet be very manifold. We proceed to discuss the chief forms which have been observed. A constant result of the death of a portion of a tissue is more or less severe inflammation in the surrounding portions. This is most severe when decomposition sets in in the dead portion. By means of this inflammatory zone, the necrosed region is in a way marked off and isolated from the rest. The inflammation is hence described as definitive, and the zone as the line of demarcation. The process is more fully treated in Arts. 112—116. Among the various terminations of necrosis we may distinguish four main types. We exclude special complications, such as the development in the necrosed tissue of specific irritant matters. In the first class, the dead tissue is absorbed and replaced by newly- formed normal tissue (regeneration, Arts. 72—80). In the second, the dead tissue is likewise absorbed, but is not replaced by normal tissue ; an inflammation in situ is followed by the formation of fibrous tissue, which fills up the gap in whole or in part (healing by scar or cicatrix, Arts. 112—116). In the third, the necrosed tissue is only partially absorbed, a part remaining as a caseous mass; this later on becomes in general calcified and enclosed in a capsule of connective tissue (caseation and calci- fication, Arts. 112—116). The fourth issue is the formation of a cyst. The dead tissue is absorbed, and in its place there is developed a small amount of fibrous tissue, but only over the boundary of the vacated space. In other cases, this space becomes filled with fluid, which is thus encysted. This happens oftenest in the brain. a. Coagulative (hyaline or fibrinous) necrosis. 35. Necrosis accompanied by coagulation occurs in two ways. In certain of the vital fluids like the blood and lymph, and in fluids which have escaped from the vessels, granular, fibrous, or homogeneous coagula are formed : that is one kind of necrosis. In the other, cells and cellular structures as they die become solid and firm, and coalesce into peculiar homogeneous or hyaline masses. The granular, fibrous, and hyaline masses which make their appearance when blood coagulates are albuminoid bodies: and we speak of them in general terms as fibrin. This fibrin takes the form of flakes or curds, shreds, lumps, or membranes. If red blood- cells are enclosed in the meshes of the fibrin as it separates, the clots are soft and dark red in colour. If coagulation does not take place in the plasma till this has separated from the red blood-cells, the clots produced are pale yellowish, soft, gelatinous, watery, trans- lucent, and somewhat tenacious: after a time they contract and so