47 HYPERAEMIA AND ANAEMIA. CHAP. IV.] anastomoses of fair size connecting them with other arteries; whether in fact a collateral circulation is possible. If it be possible, the disturbance of the circulation at first produced is quickly compensated by an increased blood-supply through the collateral arteries. The compensation will be the more rapid and complete as the collaterals are larger and more dilatable. The case is different however when the obstructed artery has no arterial anastomoses beyond the obstruction, when it is terminal, as it is called. The diminution of the current beyond the obstruction cannot be compensated for, and the affected region becomes in the first instance nearly or wholly deprived of blood. This state of things may alter after a time, however. When the movement and pressure of the blood beyond the obstruction have sunk to a minimum, the propelling forces become at length insufficient to maintain the flow. The specifically heavier red blood-cells become stationary, and accumulate in the capillaries and veins. In this way the anaemic region becomes again filled with blood, but with blood which is stagnating, not circulating. The same thing happens when a terminal artery is completely occluded. The blood from the anastomosing capillaries is slowly urged backwards under slight pressure into the anaemic region. Finally, there may be a reflux from the veins themselves sufficient to give rise to an accumulation of blood in the vessels of the anaemic region. This reflux will occur when in the latter vessels the blood-pressure has sunk to zero, and the usual resistances to reversed flow in the veins (such as gravity, or the presence of valves) are not in action. A further cause of anaemia in an organ may be the excessive determination of blood to other organs. The entire amount of blood available may thus be inadequate to supply the non- congested organs. This is described as collateral anaemia. All anaemic tissues are pale. At the same time they are limp and non-turgescent, and any proper colour which they may possess becomes well marked.