192 [SECT. VI. TUMOURS. mesoblastic elements. Such are distinguished as histioid tumours, or more simply as connective-tissue tumours. Some of them are firm and of the texture of fibrous tissue, cartilage, or bone. Others are soft and contain adipose tissue, mucous tissue, or em- bryonic or indifferent tissue. Very soft varieties, resembling brain on section and yielding a white creamy juice on being scraped, are described as encephaloid or medullary. Not uncommonly a tumour may have a different texture in different parts of it; it is then spoken of as a mixed tumour. It arises when two distinct tissue- forms are simultaneously developed, or when a single tissue has undergone partial transformation into another. A second group of tumours are more complex in structure. They consist not only of mesoblastic elements, but of epiblastic and hypoblastic elements in addition; in other words they contain elements derived from epithelial cells. They are therefore de- scribed as epithelial tumours, in contradistinction to the connec- tive-tissue group. Inasmuch as they exhibit a certain similarity of structure with various organs of the body, they have also been called organoid tumours. Their structure may often be recognised with the naked eye. On section the general appearance is that of a dense basis-substance, built up of reticulated bands and trabeculae, and containing within its meshes a substance of different colour and softer consistence. The latter often takes the form of a milky or creamy juice. Medullary forms are also met with in this group. A tumour resembling its matrix-tissue in texture Virchow calls homoeoplastic : one which differs widely is heteroplastic. The latter term implies—that in normal circumstances tissue like that of the tumour never occurs at all at the spot in question; or at any rate not at the particular stage of development reached at the time in question. A tumour may thus be heteroplastic as regards its site (heterotopic), or as regards its date (hetero- chronic). By excluding the mere hyperplasias from the category of tumours, we are bound in strictness to regard all tumours as heteroplastic : they never are of exactly the same structure as the matrix-tissue. A division of tumours into homologous and heterologous growths has been proposed. Homologous growths are such as resemble some normal tissue of the body : heterologous growths such as resemble no mature normal tissue. Unless a homologous growth is heterotopic it is not distinguishable from a hyperplasia. A growth which is strictly heterologous must be heteroplastic. 139. Every tumour is developed from pre-existing tissue- cells by proliferation: in some tumours new blood-vessels are also formed. The processes of cell-division and of vascularisation are identical with those described in Arts. 74 and 86. Nuclear subdivision is indirect: new vessels are formed by off-shoots from existing ones. Tumours usually develope from small beginnings. It is rarely that their site of origin extends over an entire organ. From this it follows—that they do not usually lead to an enlargement of the organ as a whole, but rather tend to form definite nodes or pro- tuberances. Some grow with great rapidity; others slowly and