[SECT. VII. PARASITES. 284 199. The inflammation excited by the presence of bacteria often results in a great aggregation of living cells in the tissue affected. These may so act as to repel the continued advance of the fungi, which straightway perish, and the affection issues in healing and cicatrisation. The fixed tissue-cells of the region may likewise act so as to check the development of the bacteria, and may further suffice to make up any loss of tissue by their regenerative activity. If this does not happen the bacterial invasion continues to advance. The bacteria spread first into the surrounding tissues, passing along the natural lines of division. Then they break into the lymphatics, and often into the blood-vessels also. If they can live in lymph or blood they go on multiplying; if not they perish. Many bacteria, like the micrococcus of erysipelas, flourish best in the lymphatics. Others, like the anthrax-bacillus, are more at home in the blood. The extent to which the bacteria can spread within the lymphatic system is subject to no general rule. Many of them make a halt at the first gland they come to. Others pass beyond, and finally reach the blood-vessels by way of the thoracic duct. Then* path is generally marked by degenerative and necrotic changes, and by the inflammatory reaction they excite. The degree and amount of these changes are determined partly by the nature of the bacteria, partly by their number. They reach the blood either through the lymphatics or directly. In the latter case the walls of the veins in the invaded region are penetrated by the fungi, or they pass into the veins from the capillaries. Once in the current they are carried on by it to remote parts. Many of them perish in the blood, others again increase and multiply. Of the last some (anthrax-bacillus) thrive best in blood that is flowing; others (tubercle-bacillus, pyaemic micrococcus) prefer blood that is at rest, that is to say, they only Fig. 78. Fig. 77. micrococcus septicus in hepatic capillaries : Necrosis of the TjTVER-cells. ( x 350) FlQ. 78. BACILLUS ANTHRACIS'. LIVER-CELLS UNAFFECTED. ( X 350)