[SECT. VII. 296 PARASITES. human body at places where necrosed tissue is accessible to the air. Putrefaction is in fact conditioned by the presence of this organism. It may become dangerous by setting free products of decomposition which excite inflammation or gangrene around the putrefactive focus, and when absorbed act poisonously on the system generally or on remote organs. Gappky recently discovered a specific microbacterium (Mitth. a. d. k. Qesundh. Berlin 1881) which he was able to cultivate separately in sterilised gelatine impregnated with blood-serum, and in a cold infusion of boiled beef. He found the organism in river-water much polluted with sewage. The same bacterium is occasionally found in meat-washings and blood, as putrefaction sets in. It is a short rodlet which takes up aniline dyes at its poles only, the middle remaining clear. It is very like B. termo. Its spores have not been observed. Eabbits inoculated with it remain unaffected for ten or twelve hours, then high fever sets in, and death in twenty hours. The blood of the infected animals contains bacteria. Guinea-pigs, white rats, cats, and dogs are not susceptible, but sparrows, canaries, and chickens are. This bacterium does not set up putrefaction when 'purely' cultivated ; it is therefore distinct from B. termo. 206. Of the Desmobacteria the typical example is the best known of all microparasites, the Bacillus anthracis. It is found in the blood of animals affected with anthrax or splenic fever, and it is certain that it is the sole cause of the affection. The organism can be cultivated outside the body (Art. 186), and anthrax can be produced by means of the cultivated specimens. All that is need- ful is to introduce the bacillus or its spores into the blood. No auxiliary conditions, such as the formation of septic products or the presence of chemical poisons, are necessary. The spores are the commonest medium of infection, as they are hardier than the bacillus itself. Such spores develope in the blood of animals dead of anthrax even after burial (Koch). If they are not deeply buried the spores may ultimately reach the surface of the ground. Cattle are then infected through wounds (such as scratches of the mouth caused by stubble or by insects), through the alimentary canal, or through the lungs. Death seems to result chiefly from abstraction of oxygen, and disturbance of the circulation. In man the disease is only produced by transmission of the virus from infected animals living or dead. In England the infection is chiefly conveyed by means of the fleeces of diseased animals to persons engaged in handling them (woolsorters' disease). Anthrax in man usually continues as a local affection for a longer time than in the lower animals. Papules, vesicles, and pustules on a red and swollen base are developed in the skin. Numerous dark- red button-like nodules crammed full of bacilli then appear in the intestine. This haemorrhagic intestinal form also occurs in cattle. In human anthrax the blood usually contains much fewer bacilli than in the case of cattle. Armauer Hansen and Neisser have lately succeeded in