92 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. the kidney, formed in the tubules by a singular transformation of transuded liquid and shed epithelium, show not infrequently the amyloid reaction if they have lain long in situ. In the remains of old haemorrhages amyloid bodies have often been found (Fig. 14 b). Fig. 14. corpora amylacea. a stratified concretion from the prostate 6 corpus amylaceitm from an old haemorrhagic infarct of the lung c corpora amylacea from the spinal cord (x 400) They often enclose a foreign substance, such as a crystal of haematoidin. These bodies are called amyloid concretions or corpora amylacea. They are found under normal conditions in the central nervous system, especially in the ependyma of the ventricles. It was here that Virchow first discovered them. They take the form of small more or less clearly stratified spherules (Fig. 14 c). At times they may be found abundantly in morbidly altered brain- substance, and in cerebral tumours. Corpora amylacea are also very common in the prostate gland. They lie in the lumen of the acini and are of considerable size: often indeed they may be recognised by the naked eye as brown grains upon the surface of a section. They are distinctly stratified (Fig. 14 a), except towards the centre. These localised amyloid formations, and especially those origi- nating in tube-casts and old extravasations of blood (Fig. 14 b), serve to prove that amyloid substance may arise from a direct meta- morphosis of the albumen of blood and of epithelium. The prostatic concretions, when they really are amyloid (and this is not always the case), are probably to be regarded as modified cell-products. A large mxmber of memoirs have dealt with the question of localised amyloid change. Kyber (loc. cit.), Leber (Arch, fur Ophthalm. xix, xxv), Hippel (ibid, xxv), von Becker (Amyl. degen. tarsi Helsingfors 1876) refer to amyloid formations in the eyelid. Friedreich (Virch. Arch. vols. 9, 10) and Zahn (ibid. vol. 72) found amyloid bodies in the lung; Langhans in cancer-nodules (ibid. vol. 38) ; Btjrow (Langenbeck's Arch, xvm.) in tumours of the larynx, &c. On prostatic concretions see Paulizky (Virch. Arch. vol. 16).