00* ANOMALIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD. [SECT. II. can only cany blood into the capillary system ; it cannot suffice to drive the blood through the capillaries. In consequence of this engorgement, due to lack of propelling power, diapedesis is soon established, just as in complete obstruc- tions of the venous outflow. The escape of blood is further aided by the disorganisation of the vessel-wall, set up by the cessation or serious diminution of its supply of nutriment. The ultimate result of the diapedesis is the infiltration of the entire tissue with blood, and the formation of a firm, generally conical, haemorrhagic patch. Embolic infarcts of this kind are found chiefly in the lungs, the spleen, and the kidneys. As to their final fate see Art. 37. The fundamental experiments on thrombosis and embolism were originally made by Virchow (Gesammelte Abhandlungen Frankfurt a. M. 1856). Virchow referred the production of the embolic infarct to increased flow in the arteries of the contiguous regions, consequent on the ischaemia of the region considered. This involved an increased lateral pressure within the vessels, and so increased tendency for the blood to escape. Cohnheim (Unter- suclmngcn iiber die embolischen Processe Berlin 1872), examining directly the results of embolism in the frog's tongue, established the existence of the reflux from the veins, the gradual refilling of the capillaries, and the escape of blood by diapedesis. The efficient cause of the diapedesis he considered to be an ischaemic disorganisation of the vessel-wall. Litten (Untersuchungen iiber den hamorrhagisehen Infarct Berlin 1879) regards the reflux from the veins as non- essential, and refers the refilling of the capillaries to the influx from contiguous regions. Even disorganisation of the vessel-wall is, according to him, unessential to the production of an infarct; inasmuch as diapedesis is completely accounted for by the mere fact of engorgement (as is seen when the veins are obstructed). Diapedesis is for this reason increased when it chances that the blood coagulates in the vein of outflow from the embolised region.