229 CHAP. XXVII.] EPITHELIAL TUMOUES. ADENOMA. gland. In the tumours now considered the cells remain in com- pact irregular masses. Epithelial tumours of this kind, in which the glandular type is most imperfectly followed, are described as carcinomata or true cancers. Adenoma and carcinoma are generally malignant. They tend to invade the surrounding tissues; and, by the channels of the lymph or of the blood, are apt to affect distant regions and produce metastases. But the degree of malignancy varies greatly ; it depends not only on the histological structure of the growth, but to an even greater extent on its locality. The definition we have given of adenoma and carcinoma is based partly on their histology, partly on their mode of genesis. From the morbid anatomist's point of view this is the only correct mode of definition. Tumours containing none but mesoblastic cells may and do correspond in their general structure with others, in which undoubted epithelial cells form the characteristic element; and for this reason a merely anatomical method of diagnosis would be insufficient. If carcinoma be defined as an alveolar tumour composed of a fibrous network containing nested cells, it is inrpossible to separate between carcinoma and alveolar sarcoma. It is owing to this purely anatomical mode of definition that we have had controversies as to whether carcinoma really depends upon epithelial proliferation, and whether cancers may not have their origin in fibrous structures. Such controversies become irrelevant if we base the distinction on histogenetic grounds. A tumour is to be called carcinomatous only when the epithelial elements take an active part (as above described) in its formation. A connective-tissue tumour which has ostensibly the same structure, but whose mode of genesis is entirely different, is to be distinguished as an alveolar sarcoma. a. Adenoma. 167. Adenoma is a tumour constructed after the type of a secreting gland. The definition might at first sight tempt us to term every glandular enlargement, in which the elements are abnor- mally multiplied, an adenoma. This would however be incorrect. Adenoma is a true neoplasm, characterised physiologically by its impotence to produce the normal gland-secretion, and anatomically by its want of relation to the tissue in which it is seated. A gland enlarged by over-growth, or over-work, or chronic inflammation, cannot be described as an adenoma. It is a hyperplasia: and if it be the true gland-tissue and not merely the fibrous framework which is excessively developed, the physiological activity of the gland is thereupon increased. We must regard in the same way the tumour-like growths which occasionally develope in mucous membranes, chiefly as a result of chronic inflammation. They are mere localised proliferations, rising above the general surface as nodular, polypous, or papillary outgrowths. The fibrous tissue is the first to increase, and this leads to some increase of the epithelium, chiefly because the local submucous swelling involves an increase of the mucous surface. If any glands are present (as in the intestine or uterus), they also undergo change. If their ducts become blocked, they may become