OHAP. XXX.] 270 T1IIC NCHIZOMYCETES OB BAOTEEIA. This is unfortunately not the case with all bacteria. There are some which find their appropriate soil in the perfectly healthy organism, and in it they grow and multiply. Others are unable to settle in a perfectly healthy body; they can only develope when the physico-chemical constitution of the tissues is morbidly altered so as to correspond with their requirements. The forms of bacteria that have the power of gravely affecting the system, whether it be healthy or diseased, are described as pathogenous bacteria. It is manifest from the above that the determination of the vital properties and conditions of the different bacteria is a matter of the greatest importance. This knowledge would enable us to combat earlier the development of bacterial disease, and the injury it produces. It would further give us the necessary hints for preventing its invasion; for we should know where to seek the bacteria and how to destroy them or render them harmless. Our knowledge in this respect is unfortunately still defective. There are but few species of bacteria whose life-history we know with any exactness of detail. 196. The factors which determine the invasion and the course of development of bacteria within the human body are two. On the one hand the bacteria must be endowed with certain vital properties of a special kind: on the other hand there must be a predisposition on the part of the system. Our present knowledge does not yet allow us to specify accurately the properties which an infective bacterium must possess. We can only say in general—that it must find within the body and in proper combination all the conditions necessary for its growth and multiplication. Thus the temperature of the body must be such as favours its development; it must be able to abstract fit nutriment from the tissues in which it settles; it must nowhere encounter substances which check or injure it. Investigations into the bacterial affections have shown that very slight chemical changes in the constitution of a tissue are often enough to determine whether a given bacterium can develope in the tissue or not. In other words the significance of this factor of predisposition is greater than it may have appeared at first sight. Now and then of course the predisposition is due to very obvious alterations in the tissues. For instance, we find that many cases of bacterial invasion depend on the formation of a local necrosis or wound, in which the fungus can settle and develope. In other cases some grave disturbance of the circulation may lead to a failure of resistance on the part of the tissue. These instances are however matched by others in which the anatomical basis of the predisposition is beyond our power to discover. We know, for example, absolutely no reason why—of two individuals exposed to the infection of measles, scarlatina, small-pox, typhus, or tuber- culosis—the one should be taken with the disease and the other left. The factors which decide the matter in such cases are plainly