[SECT. I. MALFORMATIONS. 36 (5) Teratoma. Teratomata are tumour-like formations which are made up of a great variety of very different tissues, and so are distinguished from ordinary new-growths. Some of them contain rudimentary skeletal elements, such as those of the spine, pelvis, &c.; as well as rudiments of various organs, like the Drain, intes- tine, different glands, kidneys, and muscles. Others contain tissue-formations of various kinds, such as muscular tissue, carti- lage, skin, bony substance, gland-tissue, cysts, &c; but no defi- nitely formed masses which can be regarded as representing any special organ or member. The former tumours are undoubtedly to be viewed as remnants of parasitic foetuses which have failed altogether to develope; they are in fact Acardiaci amorphi in very close relation with the well-developed twin. With regard to the latter class of tumours, this view is not so certain. It is more likely that they depend in part for their origin on some disturbance or arrest of the development of a single foetus, or on an aberration in germine (cf. Aetiology of Tumours, Arts. 178, 179). Regarded thus, the monstrosities Epigastrius and Epignathus become teratomata whenever the degree to which they are developed is less than a certain limit. Teratomata occur however most commonly in the form of large tumours attached to the ex- tremity of the coccyx: they are then spoken of as sacral teratomata, or teratoid sacral tumours. If the outward shape suggests that of a foetus or a part of one, it is not hard to diagnose the case as an unequal form of double monstrosity. This is described as Epipygus (see Art. 14). When the tumour is of no definite shape, the diagnosis is not so obvious. In this case anatomical examina- tion alone can settle the question, according to the principles just laid down. It is not to be forgotten however that new-born infants are liable to have tumours of the sacral region, which are not unlike teratomata, but which are really of the ordinary fibroid (or it may be the epithelial) kind. (6) Inclusio foetalis. In the form of foetal parasitism just described, it usually happens that the parasite is more or less included and overgrown by some of the tissues of the autosite. This inclusion may be carried to a still greater extent. Teratoid tumours may be so completely enveloped by the body of their host, that they may be scarcely or not at all perceptible upon the ex- terior. This form of parasitism is spoken of par excellence as Inclusion. According to the region in which the teratoma is en- closed we distinguish the varieties :— (a) Inclusio abdominalis (or Engastrius) (b) Inclusio subcutanea (c) Inclusio mediastinalis (d) Inclusio cerebralis (or Teratoma glandnlae pinealis) (e) Inclusio testicidi et ovarii.