OEDEMA AND DROPSY. CHAP. V.] 51 plethora produced by over-filling the vessels with diluted blood, though it does lead to increased transudation, does not do so till the dilution has been carried to an extreme degree. Even then the oedema does not make its appearance at the parts which are the usual seat of hydraemic oedema in man. We must therefore look for another explanation of the oedema of cachexia and of nephritis (in which disease the function of the kidneys is dis- turbed). According to COHNHEIM, they owe their origin, as we have said, to a change in the vessel-wall. This change is due to the watery character of the blood, or to some deleterious substance circulating in it. Hydraemic oedema, Ave say, is near akin to inflammatory oedema ; but it is not identical with it. This appears from the fact already alluded to—that the liquid effused in the former is much poorer in albumen than that in the latter, and that it contains considerably fewer of the corpuscular elements. The doctrine of oedema in its present form is essentially due to the work of Cohxheiji and his school. This is true as well of the theory of oedema from engorgement as of the theory of hydraemic and inflammatory oedema. It was he who made out the nature of the disturbances of the circulation involved in passive hyperaemia, as well as the conditions which govern the morbid alterations of the vessel-wall. (See Cohnheim's Tories, iib. allg. Pathologic 2d edition 1882, and his Untersuchungen iiber die embolischeii Processe Berlin 1872.) The researches on the consequences of hydraemia and hydraemic plethora were carried out by him in collaboration with Lichtheim (Virch. Arch. vol. 69). Solutions of common salt were injected into the vascular system of dogs, but no oedema was produced by this dilution of the blood. When the blood-plasma is increased in amount, almost all the secretions (urine, saliva, bile, intestinal juice, &c.) are forthwith increased. The current of lymph in the lymphatics is also increased, but not in all parts ; notably not in the limbs. In extreme hydraemic plethora the abdominal organs become oedematous, but never the limbs. On inflammatory transudation and oedema see also Lassar (Virch. Arch. vol. 69). 4—2