343 CHAP. XXXII.] TAENIA. The E. multilocularis appears as a hard tumour seated in the liver. It is built up of a multitude of alveoli separated by dense scar-like fibrous tissue. The contents are transparent and jelly-like or semi-fluid. The alveoli are spherical or irregular in form. Here and there the tissues may have softened and broken down, and thus ulcerated cavities are formed. In other places the vesicles are shrunken and calcified, or the tissues are bile-stained. The distinct alveolar texture of the growth led to its being regarded as a tumour, and it was described as alveolar colloid of the liver. Virchow (Verh. d. phys. mecl. Ges. zu Wurzburg VI, 1855) was the first to make out its real nature, and he showed that the colloid masses were made up of echinococcus-cysts. The smallest vesicles merely contain granular matter, the larger contain liquid. The granular pseudo-parenchymatous covering of the cuticle seldom contains scolices, most of the cysts being sterile. E. multilocularis is possibly an abnormal variety or' sport' from the exogenous form. References :—Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 6; Leuckart, Parasiten vol. i; Klebs, Handb. d. path. Anat.; Bollinger, Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Thiermed. n, 1875 ; Proujeansky, Die multilocidiire Echinococcusgeschwidst In. Diss. Zurich 1873; Morin, Deux cas de tumeurs a e'ehinocoques In. Diss. Berne 1875 ; Huber, Arch. f. klin. Med. i, iv, v, xxix. Waldstein (Virch. Arch. vol. 83, with beautiful illustrations) brings forward evidence to show that the dis- semination of the echinococcus may be effected through the lymphatics of the liver. He gives full references to previous memoirs. 248. The occurrence of hydatids in man implies that the eggs of the corresponding canine tape-worm have somehow gained access to his body. The liver is the commonest seat, but hydatids are found in all organs. Apart from the local inflammation and fibrous hyperplasia they induce, they often cause no trouble to the patient. When a hydatid reaches a certain size, it sometimes dies and the cyst shrivels up. Its contents are changed to a fatty or cheesy mass, often becoming mortar-like as it calcifies. The hooks remain for a long time unchanged. In other cases the hydatid becomes larger, especially when it forms exogenous or endogenous daughter-cysts. It may then become dangerous by its mere size. Sometimes if the cyst is wounded or bursts, its contents pass into one or other of the body-cavities and set up severe inflammation. It may even break into a blood-vessel. In the most favourable case it breaks into the intestine or upon the exterior of the body. The Echinococci are widely diffused, but not very frequent: they are commonest in Iceland, where the inhabitants are in constant contact with their dogs. It is somewhat surprising that the multilocular variety is chiefly observed in Switzerland and Southern Germany. Neisser gives a summary of the various cases of hydatids that have been published (Die Echinococcus-krankhcit Berlin 1877). See also Perls, Handb. d. allg. Path. n.