177 THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. UHAP. XXIV.] ally. These are persons whose tissues exhibit a certain frailty or susceptibility to injury, that makes them particularly liable to chronic inflammatory disorders. It is however not at all un- common for the term 'scrofulous' to be applied to individuals actually affected with tuberculosis, as well as to those who are only predisposed to it. We may imagine the course of the infection to be this— the bacilli settle in a tissue accessible from without, pass thence into the deeper structures, and ultimately into the blood: or, without any primary local settlement, they may be taken up by the circulating juices directly, and carried to various parts ; wherever they settle they begin to develope, and so set up inflammation and the formation of cellular nodules. Koch has found the bacillus not only in general miliary tuberculosis but in caseous pneumonia, caseous bronchitis, intestinal and glandular tuberculosis, ' pearly disease,' spontaneous and inoculated tuberculosis in various animals, and in the so-called scrofulous hyperplasia of lymphatic glands. All these affections are thus to be included under the head of tuberculosis: they are all the result of the same bacterial infection. Tuberculosis from this point of view is an infective disease not always manifested by the formation of tubercles. It may even appear as a purely local affection, and yet be unaccompanied by tubercles. It is of special interest to note that Koch has detected the bacillus in the sputa of phthisical patients. As the bacillus produces spores within the body, it is very likely that the virus exists and diffuses itself outside the body mainly in the form of spores. Koch finds that the bacilli grow very slowly, and after inoculation proceed to develope and multiply only when they reach a spot where they are not subject to much mechanical disturbance or displacement. From this we may understand how it happens that many persons, though again and again exposed to the invasion of tubercle-bacilli, yet remain uninfected. It is moreover conceivable that individuals, in whose tissues inflammatory changes have already occurred, are those who are most disposed to tuber- culous infection. At the time when Koch was bringing his researches to an end, Baumgarten (Centralblatt f. d. med. Wiss. 15, 1881) succeeded in detecting bacilli in tubercle by treating microscopic sections with dilute solution of caustic potash. He did not however go on to cultivate and inoculate the bacilli. Aufrecht had already described bacilli which he had found in tubercle (Path. Mitth. Magdeburg 1881); but his demonstration was likewise defective. He did not show that the bacilli were pecidiar and specific as regards tuberculosis. It has been a much-debated question whether or not human tubercidosis is identical with the bovine ' pearly disease.' Anatomically the pearly disease is a progressively advancing affection in which nodes and nodules are formed. These may be single or agglomerated into masses as big as a potato. They are chiefly found in the serous membranes, as also in the lymphatic glands, lungs, and liver. In the serous membranes, the nodular masses are often pedunculated and pendulous. Caseation is not very common; calcification much more so. The nodules are essentially cellular in structure, often contain giant-cells (Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 14), look very like tubercles, and may lie together in great numbers in the midst of a cellular stroma. A. C. Gerlach (Jahresb. d. k. Thierarzneischide in Hannover 1869) fed and inoculated rabbits and goats with matter from such nodules, and on the strength of his experiments maintains that the pearly disease is transmissible M. 12