13 INTRODUCTION. at once possible to follow its spread and operation step by step: we are limited only by our instruments and modes of examination. It is thus in our power, in comparatively short time, to acquire information whicb not even centuries of post-mortem investigation would suffice to educe. This method of research is confessedly of somewhat limited reach. To say nothing of the technical difficulties which meet the investigator, the number of microparasitic diseases capable of transmission from man to the lower animals is small; or they run a course so different that their identity is not easily established. For such diseases therefore we are compelled to forgo this valuable aid. If we will not decline the task altogether we must adopt another method; we must endeavour to make out experimentally the biological properties of the several fungi, as they are found in the human body. If we are successful, we have made it at least possible to form an idea of their mode of working upon the system. Of recent years both methods have led to brilliant results. But there are sources of disease other than parasitic—such as high temperature, cold, chemically active substances, &c. These must not be overlooked. Though they are for the most part not themselves amenable to anatomical methods, their effects upon the tissues are. Knowledge of the morphology, the genesis, the aetiology of morbid changes is thus the aim and object of pathological anatomy. Its methods are post-mortem examination, direct or microscopic, on the one hand; experiment on the other. On comparing the domain of the pathological anatomist with that of the clinical observer, it will not escape our notice that there is a gulf betwixt them. One has to do with death, the other with life: one with what has been, the other with what is and is to be. To bridge this gulf is the task of pathological physiology: hers it is to bind into one the scattered facts which pathological anatomy has gleaned; to discover and make sure the link that connects the morbid change with the disordered function. Stand- ing with firm foot on the ground of anatomical research, and leaning on experiment as her staff, it is her part to explain to the physician the phenomena he has observed at the bedside of his patient. She analyses the complex of clinical phenomena into its elements, and from them reconstructs the natural types and species of disease. Through her mediation anatomical research joins hands again with practical medicine.