166 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. So far as the cell-forms are concerned, the only difference between tubercle and granulation is—that in tubercle the larger cells are often found in relatively greater numbers. The characteristic features of tubercle, therefore, do not lie in the forms of its cellular elements. As has been already said, the characteristic features are these,—that the cells form a definite nodule, which does not exceed a certain size, contains no new- formed vessels, and in consequence at a certain stage of its development ceases to progress ; that the nodule thereupon under- goes retrogressive changes, and becomes fatty, necrotic, and caseous. If this proposition be duly considered, it will be seen that the diagnosis of tubercle cannot, be made to depend on anatomical structure and constitution alone. A cellular nodule made up of round-cells only without a single giant-cell, or a nodule whose general texture is fibrous, may perfectly well be characterised as a tubercle, if its life-history corresponds with what we have set down. As an actual fact, in perfectly typical cases of tuberculosis we may find such nodules close by others that contain giant-cells. We may explain the occurrence of the former, by supposing in the one case that the aggregated round-cells have prematurely ceased to develope or have not yet had time to reach their full develop- ment ; in the other case the fibroblastic stage (that of epithelioid cells and giant-cells) has been exceptionally transcended, and that of fibrous-tissue formation has been reached. The physiological analogue of the last is of course the transformation of granulations into cicatricial tissue. According to the recent investigations of Koch (Art. 127) the definition of tubercle just given must be amended. By tubercle we are it seems in future to understand—a cellular nodule containing within it the specific tuberculous virus, the Bacillus tuberculosis of Koch. The general doctrine of tuberculosis must be altered in many points in consequence of Koch's discovery. The text has been allowed to remain as representing the hitherto accepted doctrine, and as containing what is probably the truth, though not the whole truth. Langhans was the first to examine carefully the giant-cells (Virch. Arch. vol. 42) and to describe their forms. Schuppel (Untersuch. iib. d. Lymph- driisentuberculose Tubingen 1871) maintained that they were always present in tuberculosis, and based the diagnosis of the affection upon them. Koster (Virch. Arch. vol. 48), Buhl (Die Lungenentzundung Munich 1872), and Rindfleisch (Pathological Histology I, 136 and Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia vol. v), have also insisted on their importance in diagnosis. The latter has even declared that any large-celled infiltration of a tissue is to be regarded as tuberculous or scrofulous in character. In opposition to this view Hering (Stud, iiber Tuberculose Berlin 1873) has disputed the specific significance of giant-cells and epithelioid cells, and has demonstrated that they are often absent in undoubted tubercles. The second constituent of the tubercle, the fibrous reticulum, has been investigated by Schuppel (loc. cit.), Wagner (Das tuberkeldhnliche Lymphadenom Leipzig 1871), Klein (Report of Med. Officer of Privy Council 1874). Cornil and Ranvier (Man. of Path. Histology vol. I. 1882) maintain that the reticulum is produced post mortem by the action of hardening reagents on the intercellular substance. For further references to the history of the question the student may consult Treves (Scrofula and