CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 263 remarks on the general question of classification :—" I have come to the con- clusion that the Bacteria aro as capable of exact specific classification as other plants. They lie at the limit of microscopic visibility. In the minuter forms it is therefore impossible to make out either structure or organisation. The size and shape of the cells, and the mode in which they are combined into colonies, are then the only differentiae: of these however it is not always easy to say whether they indicate original specific distinctions, or whether they depend on external conditions and lie within the limits of variability of one and the same species. Size is the easiest feature on which distinctions may be based, though even this is by no means easy to determine in the minuter forms. Differences in the mode of reproduction are only discoverable in the higher forms, such as the Bacilli. The genera of Bacteria have not the same significance as those of the higher plants. They are based chiefly on the characters of the vegetative cell-forms, not on the reproductive features. Every form distinguished by prominent or obvious characters is provisionally furnished with a generic name : smaller deviations serve to designate the species. It is thus not at all impossible that some of such species and genera may really represent different developmental stages of one and the same fungus." Since this utterance of Cohn's a great number of researches have been made into the growth, and multiplication of the Bacteria. Koch especially has devoted himself to the subject (Mittheil. a. d. kaiserl. Oesund- heitsamte Berlin 1881). After long-continued experiments on cultivation, in which bacteria were bred in nutritive gelatine ('the dry process') he has reached the conclusion—that each species of bacteria possesses character- istic and easily recognisable peculiarities in respect of structure, form, size, and mode of growth of its colonies on the gelatine. The Schizomycetes have been very variously named by different authors. Pasteur speaks of them as ve'ge'taux cryptogames ou microscopiques, animal- cules, champignons, infusoires, torulace'es, bactdries, vibrioniens, monades, mycoderma. In Germany the terms Monaden, Yibrionen, Mikrozyma and (by Klebs) Mihrospora and Monadine have been used. Billroth introduced the term Coccobacteria. In England we have corresponding terms, with others like monads, zymes, microzymes (Sanderson), microphytes, &c. 184. The Sphaerobacteria are the smallest of all bacteria. Under the microscope they appear as bright round or ovoid spherules of scarcely measurable size. Two genera are distin- guished : Micrococcus (Fig. 74, l) and Sarcina (Fig. 74,15). The spherules known as micrococci exhibit no perceptible organisation, but it is highly probable that they are differentiated into cell-membrane and cell-contents. They are found in liquids and in tissues either isolated, or arranged like strings of beads or ' chaplets' (Fig. 74, lb), or grouped in colonies (zoogloea, Fig. 74, 2). On examination it is found that in these colonies or zoogloea the separate spherules are united by a gelatinous intercellular substance. Cohn affirms that this is nothing but the swollen and thickened cell-membrane. Von Nencki affirms that it consists of mycoprotein. With regard to their growth and increase, it is made out that the individual cells first elongate and then subdivide transversely. If the subdivided cells remain conjoined the result is a diplococcus (Billroth). If the process of subdivision goes on, the new cells remaining attached and in line, chains or chaplets are produced. If large numbers of spherules remain after subdivision within the