68 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. b. Caseation. 39. Caseation (or tyrosis) is a pathological transformation of tissue, whose product somewhat resembles in appearance firm new Cheshire cheese on the one hand, or soft cream cheese on the other. The name refers merely to the outward appearance of the product: the process which leads to its formation is by no means always the same. In the first form of caseation—in which the degenerated tissue is firm, tough, yellowish-white, and somewhat translucent—the process is one of coagulative necrosis. This occurs most frequently in tissues which are rich in cells; for example, in the foci of tuberculous disease, in cellular tumours, and in inflamed lung. A tissue which has become completely caseous is always devoid of nuclei, and is either homogeneous or finely granular. The trans- formation of a tissue into a firm cheesy mass may occur in one of three ways. The tissue may gradually assume as a whole a more and more homogeneous appearance, losing its nuclei the while. Or detached homogeneous masses may first be formed, which later on fuse together into a continuous mass. Or lastly, the tissue- cells may first dissolve and be replaced by granules and granular fibrils of fibrin; these last then close up and coalesce into a dense uniform mass. The last process is chiefly observed in the caseation of the cellular exudations of pneumonia; the first chiefly in tissues which, in consequence of chronic inflammation or tuberculosis, are the seat of a fibro-cellular hyperplasia. It should be noted that caseating masses originally homogeneous may, by subsequent trans- formation, take on a more granular appearance. The softer form of caseation changes the tissue to a dull white. The chief part of the mass is made up of granular fatty and albuminous detritus. Neither cells nor cellular structures are any longer recognisable. This form of caseation is generally the result of a fatty disintegration of cellular tissues or exudations (Arts. 50—54), which have lost water by absorption. The tissue thereupon becomes inspissated, and its opaque appearance is due to the formation in it of minute oil-globules. The firmer and softer forms of caseous change are not veiy sharply distinguished. At times both forms may be found together in one organ. It is even possible for the firmer form to be transformed, by processes j)hysical or chemical, into the softer. The ultimate fate of caseous foci is either softening and liquefaction with absorption (Arts. 112—116), or calcification. c. Colliquative necrosis or Softening. 40. Colliquative necrosis, in which the affected tissue becomes as it were liquefied, is closely akin to coagulative necrosis. In each case the necrosed parts become saturated with liquid. Colliquation may thus either precede or follow upon coagulation.