20 [SECT. I. MALFORMATIONS. 2. The human organism is developed from the ovum. This is a cell of definite and regular structure, which is set into activity by the impulse of impregnation. The rudiments of the several parts are produced by continued segmentation of the primordial cell. The morphological form of the embryo begins very early to appear, and depends ultimately on certain regular evolutionary processes which the several rudimentary organs undergo. These processes are histologically recognisable as lateral or central proliferations of the cell-complex, and the resulting outgrowths forthwith become differentiated into specific forms. The factors determining the special direction development is to take do not, in the first instance at least, lie in the external relations of the ovum, in its environment. They are rather to be sought in the inherent and inherited properties of the segmentation-cells. But at the same time the external relations are not without influence on the subsequent course of development. If these are abnormal, the process of embryonic growth may be thereby altered, arrested, or perverted. Theoretically speaking the origin of a malformation may be of either of two kinds. On the one hand, the primary rudiment (in other words, the ovum) may have inherited a tendency to abnormal growth; on the other, a normal embryo may in the course of development be affected by disturbing influences from without which check its progress towards the perfectly developed form. Experience indicates that both events occur. The recurrence of hereditary malformations in a family (such as excess of fingers or toes) can only be explained by the supposition that the abnormal tendency exists from the first in the embryo, having been transmitted to it from one or other parent. On the other hand the absence of one or more limbs, deficiency of the cranium, &c, observed only in isolated cases, are to be accounted for in a satisfactory way only by assuming that external causes of injury have affected the growing foetus. Disturbing influences acting on the otherwise normal embryo play a far more important part than heredity in the genesis of malformations. This might be inferred from the fact that the term malformation has come to connote exclusively gross and obvious anatomical relations. These gross anatomical anomalies arise generally from external causes. The pathological peculiarities transmitted congenitally from parent to child manifest themselves less in anomalies of external form than in deficient or perverted function of the tissues, or in morbid predispositions. Such anomalies are to be detected only by minute anatomical examination, or they are incapable of anatomical demonstration at all. 3. Monstrosities by defect, as they occur in man, are of many kinds. Many of them affect most gravely the shape and fashion of the human form : others, of trifling character and affecting none but internal organs, can only be recognised by anatomical examin- ation. The configuration of the body is most prejudicially affected