318 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. The earliest observation of filamentous fungi in the deeper organs was made by Zenker (Jahresb. d. Gescll.f. iVatwr- und Heilk. Dresden 1861—2). He found them in cerebral abscesses. Grohe (Bed. klin. Woch. 1, 1870) and Block (Weber Pilzbilchmg in thier. Geweb. In. Diss. Stettin 1871) made the first experimental researches on the behaviour of mould-spores introduced into the blood. They affirmed that the spores of Aspergillus glaucus and Penicillium glaucum germinate when injected into the blood, so that the tissues become penetrated with their filaments. Their experiments were again and again repeated, but their results were not confirmed until Grawitz took up the subject (Virch. Arch. vol. 81). He found that to obtain positive results the fungi must first be adapted to the conditions of the human body by cultivation in an incubator. Koch, Loffler, and Lichtheim (Art. 219), however, showed that this is not always necessary, for the conidia of various moulds, such as Asp. fumigatus, A. flavescens, and several of the Mucorini, have the power of developing within the body. Ex- periments made with a view to acclimatise other varieties to the conditions of the body were unsuccessful. Grawitz's results are vitiated by the fact that his cultures were probably ' impure'. On Madura-foot see Vandyke Carter, On Mycetoma London 1874, and Lewis and Cunningham, The Fungus-Disease of India Calcutta 1875, and Quain's Diet, of Med. 1882. The affections induced by the mould-fungi have a totally different signifi- cance from those induced by the bacteria. No transmissible infective disease has yet been produced by the former class of organisms, for they do not multiply within the body. In all the experiments referred to what was obtained was at most the germination of conidia—never their fructification. Among invertebrate animals diseases due to mycelial fungi are by no means rare. Botrytis bassiana sets up the so-called muscardine-disease in silkworms. Cordyceps militaris destroys the noxious pine-spider (Gastropacha pini). Tarichium megaspermum, a black fungus, is fatal to the noxious cater- pillar Agrotis segetum. The genus Empusa is well-known: one of its species (E. radicans) attacks the caterpillar of the white cabbage-butterfly, another (E. muscae) the ordinary house-fly. These are often found completely beset and permeated with mycelial filaments. The Blastomycetes or Yeasts. 223. The yeast-fungi consist of round or ovoid cells of various sizes (Fig. 85). The cell-protoplasm is granular, and often vacuolated. It is contained within a cell-wall. Multiplication takes place by gemmation and abstriction. An outgrowth springs from some point of the surface of the parent-cell; this grows till it is about the size of the parent, and then it is abstricted. In some conditions (Cienkowsky, Geawitz) the cells grow out into filaments, but these do not become jointed or subdivided. If jointed threads seem to be formed, sacciiaromtces it is by a process of gemmation, like that which cerevisiae (x 400) produces the rounder cells. Dilution of the nutrient liquid favours the development of filaments; abundance of sugar favours the development of spherical cells. Reess asserts that new cells may also be formed endogenously, by means of so- called brood-cells. The organism which sets up alcoholic fermentation is a yeast-