CHAP. II.] MALFORMATIONS BY ARREST IN SINGLE INDIVIDUALS. 31 find absence of single fingers or toes (Perodactylus); or coalescence of two or moi'e (Syndactylies or ' webbing'). (10) Of the several bones those most commonly wanting are the radius, fibula, patella, clavicle, and scapula. See Foerster, I.e.; Gruber, Ueber angeborne Defecte der Hand, Arch, f. Anat. u. Phys. 1863 ; Voigt, Ueber congenitalen Radiusdefect, Arch. d. Heilk. 1863 ; Julliard, Sympodia, Gaz. me'd. de Paris 1869. Many cases of malforma- tion of the limbs have been attributable to constriction and even amputation by folds or bands of the foetal membranes, or by loops of the umbilical cord. Compare Abelin and Blix, Jahresber. der gesammt. Med. 1863 ; Bambeke, Annal. de la Socie'te de Med. de Gand 1861 ; Baker Brown, Obstet. Trans. vin. 1867. Dareste explains the formation of the siren-monster by supposing that the tail-fold of the amnion has pressed too tightly on the caudal end of the embryo. c. Malformations and Malpositions of the organs. 11. We have seen that the form of the body as a whole is liable to manifold irregularities, resulting from disturbances in its development. The several organs may likewise, and from like causes, deviate in form and structure from the normal. Especially is this the case with the genital organs and with the heart, which very often exhibit anomalies depending on arrested development. But malformations affecting the alimentary canal, the kidneys, the lungs, or the brain, are by no means rare. These will more naturally fall to be discussed in connexion with the pathological anatomy of the respective organs. Very frequently too we meet with malposition of the organs. This reaches its highest degree in the so-called Situs transversus (or inversus) visceruni; this is a right-and-left reversal of the viscera, the contents of the thorax and abdomen being transposed as if reflected in a mirror. It occurs in single as well as in double monsters. But apart from the viscera, malpositions also occur in connexion with the extremities. Under this head must specially be mentioned congenital dislocations, or displacements of the articular ends of bones from their sockets: and also abnormal positions of the feet, the hands being less often misplaced. According to the position of the foot we distinguish four types— (1) Pes varus (commonly though less strictly called Talipes varus), or club-foot. The inner border of the foot is directed upwards, the outer downwards; the heels inwards; the astragalus projects strongly outwards; the scaphoid bone lies beneath the inner malleolus. The calf-muscles and tendo Achillis are shortened. (2) Pes valgus, or flat-foot. The outer border of the foot is directed upwards, the inner downwards; the sole outwards. The peronei and extensor muscles are shortened.