CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 289 and CeUular-Pathologie und Tnfectionskrankheiten, Tageblatt der Natur- forscherversammlung in Kassel 1878 ; Vihchow, Krankheitswesen und Krank- /«itxursaclien, Virch. Arch. vol. 79; Hiller, Die Lehre von der Fiiulniss Berlin 187!); Wernich, Die Entwickelung der organisirten Krankheitsgifte Berlin 1880; Koch, Untersuchimgen iiber Wundinfectionskrankhciten Leipzig 1878, Traumatic Infective Diseases London 1880; Wolff, Zur Bacterimlehre bei accidentellen Wundkrankheiten, Virch. Arch. vol. 81; Toussaint, Comptes Rendus nos. 2 and 5, vol. 91 ; Chauveau, ibidem, no. 16 ; Duclaux, Ferments et Malad>es Paris 1882; Brieger, Einige Beziehungen der Fiiulnissproducte zu Krankheiten, Zeitsch. f. klin. Med. m; Buchner, Ueber d. Wirkung d. Spaltpilze im lebend. Kbrper, Zur Aetiol. d. Tnfectionskr. Munich 1881 ; Cheyne, Antiseptic Surgery London 1882 ; Discussion, Trans. International Med. Congr. vol. I, 1881. Of late years many experimenters have sought to furnish an experimental basis for the doctrine that individuals who have passed through an infective disorder are 'protected' against the same or a kindred disorder (as in the case of vaccinia and variola). They have attempted to make out that this holds for bacterial disease artificially communicated to animals. Pasteur was the first to make communications on this head {Gaz. mid. de Paris no. 18, 1880). Toussaint refers the so-called fowl-cholera to the action of a certain micrococcus. Fowls die when inoculated with the bacteria culti- vated in chicken-broth. If the poison be attenuated by letting it stay in the culture-liquid exposed to the air for eight or ten months, it is no longer fatal on inoculation: but the fowls become by one or more inoculations ' protected' against the unattenuated poison. Pasteur further discovered that the ac- tivity of the anthrax-bacillus may be diminished by cultivation at a tempera- ture of 42° to 43° C. Animals inoculated with the cultivated bacillus do 7iot die, but are as it were 1 vaccinated' against the unmitigated poison. After repeated inocidations sheep become at last quite unaffected by inocula- tion with the unaltered bacillus. Bouley communicated to the Paris Academy a research of Toussaint's, in which he found that the anthrax poison can be mitigated by warming infected blood to 55° C for ten minutes with the addition of 1 per cent, of carbolic acid. Young dogs, sheep, horses, and rabbits may be protected by inoculation with this blood. Colin (Paris Academy, March 1, 1881) has disputed the force of these experiments, as it is known that some individual animals are specially ' refractory' with respect to the anthrax-poison, without any protective inoculation. The Royal Hungarian Ministry of Agriculture instituted at Buda-Pesth an extensive series of experiments superintended by one of Pasteur's assistants, and the results obtained confirmed on the whole what Pasteur had announced (R6szahegyt, Biolog. Centralb. 5, 1882 and Practitioner Feb. and Mar. 1882). Similar successful experiments were made in Berlin in April 1882 {Gaz. me'd. July 1882). Oemler {Arch. f. zviss. und pract. Thierhcilk. 1876—81) made similar inoculation-experiments without reaching any positive results. Chauveau likewise experimented on sheep, but was not able to draw any certain inferences: he thinks however that an imperfect protection may be obtained by repeated inoculation. Loffler {Mitth. a. d. k. Gesundheitsamte Berlin 1881) experimented on mice, rats, guinea-pigs, and rabbits, but was not able to verify Pasteur's and Tous- saint's statements. He did not succeed either in attenuating the poison or in effectively 'vaccinating' the animals. He therefore disputes the force of their experiments, thinking that they must have lighted on sheep already immune against the poison. The experiments on fowl-cholera he thinks trustworthy. It was he who showed that when a mouse has lived through one attack of specific septicaemia it is protected against a further attack. This specific septicaemia of the mouse is caused by a delicate bacillus, which can be 'purely' cultivated in nutritive gelatine, weakly alkalised with sodium phosphate and impregnated with 1 per cent, of peptone. The bacillus will infallibly kill a rabbit injected with it in from forty to seventy-two hours; M. 19