CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. TUBERCLE. 171 Diffused and wide-spread inflammatory disturbance of the circulation is very often associated with the eruption of the nodules. Fig. 33. Miliary Tubebculosis op the livee. (Carmine staining) a mature tubercle in the portal sheath 6 tubercle beginning to develope in a liver-cell This is especially the case in the pia mater, the serous membranes, and in the lungs, where the process is often accompanied by copious and diffuse exudation. In the liver, kidney, thyroid gland, &c. on the other hand, the changes elsewhere than in the immediate neighbourhood of the nodules are usually but slight. Ziegler has investigated the development of miliary tubercles occurring in very diverse structures, and maintains that their basis is always a collection of white blood-cells which have migrated from the veins and capillaries. These indeed often form the entire mass of the tubercle. In other cases the endo- thelia contribute something. When the nodule has reached a certain size it becomes difficult to make out certainly the behaviour of the fixed cells of the tissues. He has not been able to confirm the often-made assertion that miliary tubercle is specially apt to develope round the smaller arteries. The direct penetration of the tuberculous virus into the blood-vessels may be the result of tuberculous change in their walls. If a considerable number of sections of phthisical lung be examined, there will here and there be found vessels whose walls are the seat of tubercles. If these penetrate the intima, they may then break into the blood-channel directly. Weigert has shown that large venous trunks may be invaded in this way. There are two reasons for the fact that all organs are not simultaneously and equally attacked when the blood is infected with the tuberculous virus. One is that the virus, though it is circulating in the blood, may not reach all the organs alike. The other is that all the organs are not equally pre- disposed to infection. The skin, for instance, seems to enjoy almost perfect immunity. General miliary tuberculosis is not an inevitable result of tuberculosis occurring in an organ. The rule rather is that the tuberculous process does not extend beyond the boundaries of the organ primarily affected, and the lymphatic glands pertaining to it. What most commonly leads to general infection of the blood is the disintegration of caseous tuberculous glands.