CHAPTER XXX. THE SCHIZOMYOETES OB, BACTERIA. Morphology, Development, and Classification. 183. The Schizomycetes or Schistomycetes, frequently included under the general term Bacteria, belong to the Protophytes—the smallest and simplest of all plants. Many of them are so small that they approach the limit of visibility, even when the highest powers of the microscope are used. When they occur in animal tissues they are to be distinguished only with great difficulty, and by special methods. Special reagents or staining processes must be employed; sometimes certainty is only reached by experimental cultivation of the products of disintegration of the tissue in question. That they do occur in animal tissues is now established beyond all doubt. Their growth and multiplication have been experimentally demonsti'ated. The Bacteria are all of them unicellular organisms devoid of chlorophyll: they are often however aggregated into larger or smaller colonies. Cohn has classified them according to their form into Sphaerobacteria (globular cells), Micro-bacteria (minute rod-like cells, Bacteria proper), Desmobacteria (larger rod-like or filiform cells, Filobacteria), and Spirobacteria (twisted or spiral cells). Movements are noticed in the three latter forms; their protoplasm is therefore contractile. Neither potash, ammonia, nor dilute acids destroy them, so it is probable that they possess a bounding membrane. Bacteria grow longitudinally: new cells are formed by transverse subdivision. These remain in connexion with each other, or become detached. Von Nencki's researches (Joum.f. praJct. Chem. 1879, Beitrage zur Biologie der Spaltpilze 1880) go to show that the bacteria are composed of a peculiar albuminoid body which he has called mycoprotein. They contain only the minutest quantities of bodies resembling cellulose. The above classification of the Bacteria is taken from Cohn (Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen vol. I; Q. Joum. M. S. 1873, 77, 79), and his work has been mainly followed in the next four paragraphs. He makes the following