[SECT. VII. 332 PARASITES. they ultimately reach the human stomach. In Africa and Asia they are very common. They develope to maturity under the skin, giving rise to cutaneous abscesses. They are most commonly found in the legs and feet, especially in the neighbourhood of the heel. See Leuckart, op. cit. ; Davaine, Entozoaires &c.; Cobbold, Entozoa 1864. The Guinea-worm disease has been identified with the dracontiasis of Plutarch, and with the endemic disorder attributed to ' fiery serpents' in the book of Numbers. 235. Filaria sanguinis hominis (Lewis) or sanguinolenta in its sexually mature form is a filiform worm 8 to 10 cm. long. According to Manson it inhabits the lymphatics, especially those of the scrotum and lower limbs. It gives rise to obstructions of the lymph-current and to peculiar inflammations, which end in elephantiasis of the tissues with oedema and lymphangiectasis. Suppurative inflammations, lymphatic abscesses, buboes, chylous hydrocele, and chylous ascites have all been observed as conse- quences of its presence. The embryos, which are about 0*35 mm. long (Fig. 98), pass from the lymphatics into the blood and induce haematuria and chyluria. Both conditions result from the lodgement of the embryos in number within the kidneys. The embryos may be ejected with the urine. Manson finds that they are spread by the agency of mosquitoes, who take up the filariae with the blood the}^ suck. The filariae pass through an intermediate developmental stage in the body of the mosquito; thence they pass into water, and thence again into the human body. It is thus probable that they reach the vessels and tissues from the intestine. The Filaria sangxbinis appears to be indigenous only within the tropics (Brazil, Egypt, India, Guadaloupe, &c). See Lewis, On a haematozoon inhabiting human blood: its relation to chyluria and other diseases Calcutta 1872, Lancet 2, 1877, Quart. Joum. Mir. Set. 1879, Art. Chyluria, Quairts Diet, of Med. 1882 ; Bancroft, Trans. Path. Soc. 1878; Manson, Lancet 1, 1878 and Trans. Path. Soc. 1881 ; Cobbold, Parasites 1879 and Human Parasites 1882 ; Joum. Quekett Micros. Club 1880; Barth, Annales de Derm, et Syph. 1881. Several other rare species of Filaria are known. References to them will be found in the standard works of Leuckart, Davaine, and Cobbold, already cited. 236. Trematoda. The flukes, or suctorial worms, are flattened or tongue-shaped worms. They possess suctorial pores by which they can adhere to surfaces, and in some cases they have also hook-like processes. The intestine is usually bifurcated, and terminates caecally. The development is direct or by alternate generations. In the latter case an intermediate host is necessary. This is usually a mollusc; while the mature worms almost all find lodgement in vertebrate animals. The intermediate larval stage is usually preceded by a period of active locomotion. The trematode larvae are furnished with a propelling tail, and swim about freely as cercaria.