INTRODUCTION. 3 outset a physiological notion. We infer it primarily from the appearance of some abnormality among the accustomed manifesta- tions of life. Disease is not an entity, capable of personification, of being placed in antithesis to health. The term health merely denotes that the vital functions are being performed in a manner which experience has taught us to regard as normal. So by disease we merely imply a phase of life whose manifestations deviate in some way from the normal type. Eestoration of the functions to the normal type is recovery: cessation of all function is death. The causes of the diminution and extinction of a cell's vital activity may be internal as well as external. No cell is endowed with the power of living on indefinitely. Certain cells or rather unicellular organisms, it is true, have the power of producing a long line of descendants merely by continual subdivision of their own substance, and in this way their vital activity appears to persist for an indefinite time. But life protracted after this fashion has also its limits. In the first place, it is unlikely that all the cells derived by subdivision from the mother-cell should receive at their birth exactly the same share of vital energy. Granting then that in the process of derivation an unequal transmission of the vital properties of the mother-cell to the daughter-cells is possible, we must also admit that the less-favoured descendants must sooner or later fail in their power to overcome the normal agencies antago- nistic to cell-life. But even if this be denied, the life of the cell becomes at once finite so soon as we pass from the simplest unicellu- lar organisms to higher multicellular forms. When division of labour is set up within the organism, and the production of new individuals is no longer a function shared in by all the parts of it, then it follows of necessity that some of the parts, some of the constituent cells, must be destined to perish. How long a cell can live cannot in general be exactly determined. It depends on the properties transmitted to it from the mother-cell. We may say broadly that a cell's life is shorter in proportion as it stands higher in the scale of development, and as its properties are more specialised. Thus for example the ganglion-cells and gland- cells of one of the higher animals are always short-lived, and often fail to produce any progeny at all. On the other hand the number of cell-descendants of a vertebrate ovum, or of an amoeba, is indefinitely large. The death of a cell depending thus on internal causes is a physiological death. The gradual extinction of function which ushers it in does not fall within the category of disease: it is a phenomenon of age in the cell, a senile change, a senile retro- gression. Unlike this senile extinction of the vital processes a true disease is not a consequence of the indwelling and inherited properties of the cell. The efficient causes of a disease are always external. 1—2