45 CHAP. IV.] HYl'KUAEMIA AND ANAEMIA. fibres themselves (such for example as is produced by heat, con- tusion, or atropia). Collateral hyperaemia is merely the conse- quence of diminished blood-supply to some other part. It ensues first in the immediate neighbourhood of the anaemic part: but afterwards the diverted blood may be conveyed to more remote organs, which happen to stand in need of it. The causes of passive hyperaemia are of a different kind. The veins are normally devoid of tonus. The resistances offered to the venous blood-current are chiefly due to gravitation. They are chiefly overcome by means of the action of the muscles; in part also by the aspiration towards the thorax which takes place during inspira- tion. When the muscles are inactive and the respiration feeble, these important forces are no longer available : the blood then tends to stagnate in the veins, and collects especially in those parts which are most dependent. This condition is often misnamed hypostasis, or gravitative hyperaemia. Enfeebled action of the heart favours its appearance. Uncompensated valvular disease acts in the same- way: the blood is imperfectly propelled into the arteries, and so tends more and more to accumulate in the heart itself and in the venous system. A further very common cause of passive hyperaemia is the interposition of abnormal resistances in the course of the venous current. Of this nature are obliteration of veins by compression, ligature, coagulation of the contained blood, or thickening of the walls. The forms of engorgement depending on narrowing or obliteration of veins are very various. Often they are scarcely or not at all perceptible, inasmuch as neighbouring veins may dilate sufficiently to provide for the complete drainage of the part. This has however its limits. When, for example, in the arm the greater number of the great veins are occluded; or when in the leg the femoral vein is stopped up at Poupart's ligament; or again when the main renal vein is obliterated, it becomes impossible for the blood to find adequate exit: the current becomes slower and slower, and the blood goes on accumulating in the engorged region. When the process is directly observed in the expanded tongue of the frog, the red blood-cells are seen to become tightly packed together, and to fill completely the lumen of the dilated veins and capillaries. This appearance is due to the fact that, as a conse- quence of the engorgement, an increased quantity of liquid plasma transudes under pressure from the vessels. In the systemic circulation the engorgement is confined to the veins and capillaries : the arterial blood-pressure remains unaffected by it. In the pulmonary vessels, on the other hand, where there is no very marked tonus (Cohnheim), the engorgement is propagated through the arteries to the right heart, and there gives rise to increased blood-pressure. Congested tissues are bright red in colour, engorged tissues on the other hand are dark purple or livid; though it must not be