CHAP. XXI.] EARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. EXUDATION. 143 son in Holmes's System of Surgery vol. 5. Recent researches have not tended to confirm the results on which Strioker's objections are based. Experimental researches on the origin of pus-corpuscles have generally- been made on the cornea : as this has no blood-vessels it offers a favourable opportunity for discerning the parts played by the blood and by the tissue- cells respectively. 100. The forms of necrosis and degeneration which may accompany inflammation are very various: they vary with the nature of the exciting cause, and with the intensity of the inflammation; with the character and extent of the vascular disturbance, and with the nature of the tissue. Any one of the forms of degeneration enumerated in Arts. 32—71 may occur. There is no rule determining in what cases any particular form shall appear. It deserves however to be specially mentioned, that a very common issue is the disintegration, solution, and liquefaction of the entire tissue—of its cells as well as its basis- substance. This is the case, for example, in all suppurations, to a greater or less extent. Another common occurrence is the coagulation of the exuded liquid, and also of the disorganised or necrosed tissue-cells. Fatty degeneration is not infrequently a secondary result of the vascular disturbance. 101. Varieties of Inflammation. Inflammation is a process which may affect any tissue possessing vessels, or in connexion with vessels. In other words, it may affect any tissue in the body, except a few epidermoid structures. Its seat may vary greatly. It may lie within the parenchyma of an organ, or be confined to its surface: that is to say, we may have parenchymatous inflammation, or superficial inflammation. The former affects the interior parts of solid organs, like the glands, muscles, or brain. The latter form occurs on the exterior of the body, in mucous membranes, and in the lining membranes of the great serous cavities. In the former the exuded liquid saturates the tissues, and is spoken of as an infiltration. In the latter it is deposited on the surface, and is spoken of as an effusion, or an exudation in a narrowed sense of the term. Parenchymatous inflammations are still further subdivided. Glands, muscles, and nerves possess a fibrous framework in addition to their specific elements. Inflammation of the former must be distinguished from that of the latter: we have thus interstitial inflammation, as distinguished from parenchymatous inflammation in a narrowed sense of the latter term. There is really no essen- tial difference between the two. The only value of the distinction is—that it allows us to indicate briefly the seat of inflammation in certain organs, whose fibrous framework is well defined from the specific parenchyma. Thus interstitial inflammation of the liver implies that the chief inflammatory changes are to be found in the periportal fibrous tissue, the liver-cells being relatively less affected. If it is mainly the lobules which arc affected, the inflammation is described as parenchymatous. Mistakes are often made by referring