CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. 269 No details are known of the life-history of Spirochaeta. It plainly increases very rapidly within the body. It probably produces resting-spores. The largest of all bacteria, Spirillum volutans, belongs to the Spirilla (Fig. 74, li). Apart from its size it is distinguished by its granular protoplasm and its pair of flagella. It sometimes moves about actively, sometimes lies quiescent. It is occasionally found in drinking-water. Two smaller forms, Spirillum tenue and Spirillum undula, also belong to this genus (Art. 207). Biology of the Bacteria. 188. Conditions of life. All bacteria require to be supplied with certain definite nutritive substances if they are to develope normally. The requisite substances are partly inorganic, and partly organic (carbohydrates and albuminoids). The inorganic components are derived from salts containing sulphur, phosphorus, magnesium, and potassium. The requisite carbon and nitrogen are mainly derived from animal and vegetable matters. But bacteria have also the power of assimilating nitrogen from ammonia, urea, or even nitre, provided only the other mineral substances needed are also present, and in addition some appro- priate organic carbon-compound, such as sugar. These nutritive substances must be presented to the bacteria associated with a certain amount of water. None of the bacteria can develope without water, though many of them may be without it for a time and still continue to live. This is especially the case with bacterial spores. If the water contains no proper nutriment, or if the nutriment is already used up, the bacteria cease to develope, and after a time die outright. But here, as when water is lacking altogether, it is possible for the bacteria to maintain life for a time. The spores are still more tenacious of life, and can hold out almost indefinitely. Free oxygen is absolutely necessary to the development of many of the bacteria: others can do without it if they are otherwise favourably placed, and in circumstances where they can set up fermentation. The former kind, e.g. Bacillus anthracis and B. malariae (Klebs), have been called by Pasteur aerobious fungi. The latter, of which Bacterium termo and Clostridium butyricum are the best- known examples, are anaerobious. Pure oxygen is said to kill bacteria outright. Nageli gives minuter details of the conditions of life of the various bacteria {Die niederen Pilze Munich 1877, and Untersuch. iiber die nied. Pilze 1882). Pasteur, Joubert and Chajiberland have papers in the Gaz. me'd. de Paris 1876 on the relations of bacteria to oxygen. Prazmowski asserts that so far as concerns Clostridium oxygen is not merely unnecessary but positively harmful. B. anthracis on the other hand dies if deprived of oxygen, breaking up into rounded fragments. Pasteur again affirms that the bacillus which gives rise to the ' Pasteurian' septicaemia in rabbits, dies if exposed to the air. According to Koch {Mittheil. a. d. k. Gesundheitsamte Berlin 1881), the anthrax-bacillus perishes if it is allowed to become dry ;