CH. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. SPINDLE-CELLED SARCOMA. 217 lo9. Large-round-celled sarcomata are made up of cells considerably larger than those of the varieties just described. They occur in the same localities. They are not quite so soft in texture. Their cells are often uniformly large, and have an abundant proto- plasm and large oval vesicular nuclei (Fig. 50). Many of the cells are binuclear, a few are multinuclear. The intercellular substance is arranged in a kind of network, interspersed with fusiform and ramified cells. Together they form an alveolar reticulum in whose spaces lie the large epithelium-like round-cells. On account of these characters Billroth has described the tumour as a ' large- celled alveolar round-celled sarcoma.' The vessels have usually very thin walls. In the other varieties of large-round-celled sarcoma, the cells are very unequal in size. Fig. 51 represents a section of a mammary sarcoma in which the cells are for the most part round; but their sizes vary greatly, and there is a partial admixture of elongated cells, as well as of multinuclear giant-cells (e). If this last be taken as characteristic, the tumour may be called a giant- celled or myeloid sarcoma (Art. 160). The large-round-celled sarcomata are generally less malignant than the small-celled kinds; but they likewise may form meta- stases. The patient from whom the tumour represented in Fig. 50 was taken died from metastatic growths. Fig. 50. Fig. 51. Fig. 50. Section from a fungating large-round-celled sarcoma. (From the sJcin of the leg: carmine staining: x 400) Fig. 51. Section of a sarcoma of the mamma containing variously formed (Bismark-brown staining: x 300) d cells with hypertrophied nuclei cells. a fibrous tissue 6 cells of the sarcomatous tissue c smaller cells e multinuclear cells 160. Spindle-celled sarcoma (including forms with ramified multiform cells, and fibrosarcoma). Sarcomata consisting of spindle- shaped or ramified cells are among the most common of all