183 CHAP. XXIV.] THE INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA. (but more rarely) in special districts of Greece and Italy. It is prevalent in Central and South America, and in Southern Africa and Asia. Virchow's Onkologie (vol. n) contains a full account of leprosy, from which the above details are chiefly drawn. Thoma (Virch. Arch. vol. 57) gives a description of the histological characters of the disease agreeing in essence with Virchow's. Neisser's discovery of the Bacillus leprae was announced in the Breslau. iirzt. Zeitschrift, 20 and 21, 1879 : Armauer Hansen's in Virch. Arch. vol. 79. See also Neisser, Virch. Arch. vol. 84. The bacilli have been found in the nodes of the skin, oral epithelium, and larynx—as well as in diseased foci in the nerves, cartilages, testes, lymphatic glands, liver, and spleen. Neisser has inoculated rabbits and dogs with leprous matter, and so pro- duced inflammatory nodes corresponding with those of human leprosy. He supposes that the bacilli enter the system as spores, and develope wherever they find a suitable nidus, especially in the lymphatic glands. Thence they invade the entire body. Kobner (Virch. Arch. vol. 88) found the bacilli in the blood. His attempts to transmit the disease to monkeys did not succeed. He is thus inclined to question Neisser's demonstration of its transmissibility. In Lepra anaesthetica the skin is usually smooth and shining. This form has therefore been distinguished as L. laevis or glabra. White or brown stains appear on the skin at times, probably at the site of a former infiltration. This variety is described as Lepra maculosa ; the patches as morphoeae nigrae or albae (not to be confounded with the skin-disease Morphoea). Lupus. 132. Lupus (or 'noli me tangere') is an affection of the skin and contiguous mucous membranes. The surface becomes red, and this is followed by the formation of large or small nodules (Fig. 37 d) with more diffused swellings. Granulation-tissue is formed in the corium and subcutaneous connective tissue. Jb'io. 37. Section of skin through a lupus-patch. a normal epidermis e non-vascular nodule 6 normal corium with sweat-gland (i) / strings of cells c focus of lupus-tissue g lupous ulcer d vascular nodule surrounded by dif- h proliferating epithelium fuso cellular infiltration