[SECT. VI. TUMOURS. 212 of various sizes which develope in the continuity of a nerve without any discoverable cause. These then would be instances of true neuroma. Nerve-fibres are said to multiply by subdivision and by off- shoots. According as the new-formed fibres are medullated or not, we have the varieties myeline neuroma and amyeline neuroma. Neuromata are entirely innocent: they never give rise to metastases. It has been shown that the multiple false neuromata are apt to be inherited, or at least to depend on some congenital fault. (See Special Pathological Anatomy of the Nerves.) References:—Virchow, op. ext. and Gesammelte Abhand.; Smith, On Neuroma; Perls, Handb. d. allg. Path.; Verneuil, Arch. g4n. de m4d. vol. 18 (5th series) ; Czernt, Arch. f. Mm, Chir. xvil; Soyka, Prager Vierteljahrs. 35, 1877; Perls, Arch, f, Ophthalm. xix; P. Bruns, Virch. Arch. vol. 50; von Recklinghausen, Ueber d. midtiplen Fibrome d. Haut Berlin 1882. j. Lymphoma and Lymphosarcoma. 155. Lymphoma is a comprehensive term, and includes formations which are not strictly tumours, but rather hyperplasias of the tissue proper to lymphatic glands—lymphadenoid (or briefly adenoid) tissue, as it is called. Lymphoma, as a neoplasm, would imply the development and deposit of new lymphadenoid tissue in the form of a tumour within a lymphatic gland, a follicle, or some other structure of the connective-tissue group. In what is usually called lymphoma, this does not happen. What does happen is—that the tissue of the lymphatic gland or follicle increases in size because the lymphoid cells it contains are multiplied, while the reticular tissue undergoes hyperplasia. The process is often inflammatory in character, and should then be classed with the inflammations: in other cases the lymphoid hyperplasia seems to begin idiopathically, i.e. without any cause hitherto discovered. It may often be doubtful whether the increased growth of a lymphatic gland should be regarded as neoplastic or as hyperplastic. Many cases of lymphoma, especially the leukaemic kinds, seem referable to hyperplasia. The lymphatic glands, lymphadenoid structures of the intestine, and lymphoid follicles of the spleen, all maintain their structure as they grow in size, or alter but slightly. Moreover the functions of the glands seem to be more actively performed. This does not seem to indicate that they are invaded by anything of the nature of a neoplasm. In addition to the hyperplastic lymphomata, there is a true or heteroplastic tumour whose structure agrees with that of lymph- adenoid tissue. As the term lymphoma has been perverted to describe the hyperplastic formations, we may do well to distinguish the genuine tumour as lymphadenoma or lymphosarcoma. This latter title corresponds with the fact—that the tumour agrees in