54 ANOMALIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD. [SECT. II. injury, or disease of the wall itself. In all so-called spontaneous haemorrhage we must take it for granted that the latter cause is in action. Newly-formed vessels are likewise very easily torn. Increased blood-pressure of course tends towards rupture of the vessel-wall, but it never actually produces it if the vessel be per- fectly sound. Diapedesis comes into play when the pressure is raised in the veins and capillaries, and also when, caeteris paribus, the vessel- wall becomes more permeable. It is very rapidly set up by obstructing the outflow of venous blood. The nature of the change in the vessel-wall which results in greater permeability is not yet completely understood; but it is known at least that the exciting cause of the change is a disturbance in tissue-nutrition (Art. 25). Thus it may be produced by temporarily checking the blood-suj>ply of the vessel, or by direct injury to the vessel-wall. Moreover certain poisons introduced into the blood may lead to the change. The vessel-wall must, in fact, be directly or indirectly damaged. Sometimes the defective structure of the vessel-wall is conge- nital. There are persons who show a great tendency to bleed upon small occasion. These are called ' bleeders,' and are said to exhibit the haemorrhagic diathesis or haemophilia. What we may describe as an acquired haemorrhagic diathesis is exhibited in the diseases known as morbus maculosus or purpura, and scurvy; as well as in many of the infectious fevers and toxae- mic affections, such as septicaemia, spotted typhus, small-pox, plague, icterus gravis, yellow fever, nephritis, phosphorus poisoning, &c. In some cases of haemophilia neonatorum and of endocarditis, collec- tions of bacteria have been found to be the originating cause of haemorrhage. Such haemorrhages are sometimes slight, sometimes very serious. They occur chiefly in the skin, mucous membranes, and serous membranes. Similar haemorrhages also occur sometimes in connexion with troubles of the central nervous system, chiefly in the stomach and the lungs. Full references to the literature of haemophilia are given by Legg (Haemo- philia London 1872, and St Bart. Hosp, Rep. 1881), and by Immermaxn (Ziemssen's Cyclop, vol. 17). Haemorrhages occurring in connexion with brain affections have been observed in the human subject and have also been experimentally produced in animals (Jehn, Allg. Zeitsclirift f. Psychiatric 1874 ; Charcot, Lecons sur les maladies du systbne nerveux r, 1875 ; Ebstein, Arch. f. exper. Path. n). Zeegler has twice noted serious haemorrhages of this kind in epileptics. In one case three-fourths of each lung was completely filled with blood. He has likewise met with extensive haemorrhage into the lung in a patient who died of traumatic softening of the brain. 29. The obstruction of arteries and veins plays the chief part in the production of irregularities in the circulation, and of hae- morrhages. This obstruction may arise in various ways, from with- out by ligature or compression, from within not infrequently by thrombosis. By this term is meant the formation of a coagulum