INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. 158 and minute drops (Fig. 27 \ /i2): these are migratory cells, which have taken up some of the products of disintegration of the brain- substance. The carrier-cells ultimately reach the lymphatics. Thus in the brain they accumulate in the lymph-spaces surrounding the adventitia of the arteries (Fig. 27 c). Hence they are carried on by the lymph-current, and at length reach the lymphatic glands. Here they are retained for a time, and ultimately filtered away—at least in part. In Fig. 28 is represented a lymphatic gland infiltrated Fig. 28. Section op a lymphatic gland whose sinuses and alveoli contain pigment-granule cells. (Carmine staining: x 80) a follicle 6 trabeculae c pigment-granule cells with pigment-carrying cells; these were derived from an extensive haemorrhage which had undergone resorption. The pigment- carriers for the most part remain within the lymph sinuses: only a few have penetrated the follicles. The greater portion of the foreign substance absorbed usually remains in the lymphatic gland : but it may happen that a part filters through it and reaches the next gland, or ultimately the blood-vessels. A considerable quantity of corpuscular foreign matter can in this way be removed. Often however the resorption is inadequate, and a portion of the substance remains in loco. Foreign substances may be deposited along the walls of the lymphatics as well as in the glands. The granules inclosed in the carrier-cells are set free as the cells decay. Hence it often happens that lymphatics, which have conveyed away quantities of pigmented substance, show traces of pigmentation all along their course. This happens likewise in the corresponding glands. The deposits may even excite the respective tissues to inflammatory hyperplasia. The above process is, of course, only carried out in its entirety when the foreign substances are insoluble and indestructible. Soluble and destructible matters like chalk, fat, myeline, are sooner or later dissolved or attacked; the agency of the cells, of oxygen, or of non-organised ferments completes their destruction.