CHAP. XXVIII.] AETIOLOGY OF TUMOURS. 253 We may likewise mention in this connexion—certain cutaneous fibromata ; enchondromata of the skull, spinal column, and fingers ; myxomata of the jaws; renal adenomata and cancers; and cystic adenomata seated on the sacrum and communicating with the central canal of the spinal cord. The number of really congenital tumours observed is by no means great. Cases of tumours appearing in the earlier years of infancy and referable to embryonic conditions are more numerous. Of this kind are the sarcomata of infancy; especially the form of myosarcoma of the kidney referred to in Art. 153. It is not impossible that some of the ovarian adenomata may date back to the embryonic period. If we consider carefully the scanty details we possess of congenital tumours, taken in conjunction with the familiar facts of post-embryonic tumour-formation, we must admit that the support which Cohnheim's theory derives from this side of the subject is not very great. It must not however be forgotten that this theory requires the existence—not of congenital tumours—but only of congenital rudi- ments of tumours. As to these latter our knowledge is unfortu- nately very small. It is almost entirely confined to the pigmentary and vascular naevi we have mentioned. They may be regarded, and with equal justice, either as germinal rudiments of tumours, or as developed growths. The former view is justified by the fact— that in later life it is not uncommon for these structures to develope into true malignant tumours. Tumour-germs in bone were discovered some years ago by Virchow (Berlin, acad. Monatsbericht 1875). He showed that islands of cartilage, which remain untransformed in the general ossifying process, may in later life become the starting points for the formation of chondromata. Nothing certain is known of embryonic epithelial germs, such as may subsequently develope into tumours. Their existence may be surmised in the case of early epithelial tumours of the ovary, kidney, or intestine; but it has not been demonstrated. The frequently observed accessory glands occurring in connexion with the pancreas, mamma, thyroid, &c. are not to be regarded as mere germinal rudiments, inasmuch as they contain fully developed gland-tissue. From what we have said, then, it will be seen that the histolo- gical evidence for the existence of embryonic germinal tissue in the fully developed organism is very slender. Ziegler describes a tumour of some iuterest which he found iu the small intestine seated in the submucosal it was as large as a pea, and was made up of minute cysts. It should probably be regarded as a local misfonnation, rather than a deposit of germinal tissue. Its cysts contained papillary excrescences covered with columnar epithelium; and small gland-tubules were found in the cyst-walls. It is conceivable that, from a misfonnation of this kind, a true tumour might at some time or other begin to develope. References on congenital tumours:—Virchow, Die krank. (Jcschwiilste;