CHAP, XXX.] THE SUH1Z0MYCETES OR BACTERIA. 291 The strongest point of evidence in favour of the organic nature of the poisons that produce the infective diseases is their power of unlimited repi-oduction and multiplication. Thus, starting with the lymph from a single vaccine vesicle, we can vaccinate on indefinitely, continually generating new vaccine matter. Infection transmitted through the medium of the air (which certainly takes place), is scarcely to be explained if it be not that the air has had corpuscular particles suspended in it. Chemically active gases would very quickly become diffused through the atmosphere, and at short distances would become attenuated beyond the power of doing mischief. The small quantity of infective matter required to set up the corresponding disease is another point in the evidence. The extraordinary potency of the matter can only be explained by the theory that the virus is reproduced and multiplied within the organism. The researches of the last ten years have shown (as we have said in Arts. 198—201) that there are bacterial fungi which are able, by virtue of their specific properties, to affect the animal body and generate disease in it. On the other hand, we find such fungi in the blood and tissues of persons affected with infective disease. We must admit beforehand that the available observa- tions on this head have not the extent or exactness which we could desire. Only in the case of a few diseases is the bacterial nature of the virus demonstrated by indefeasible histological and experimental investigation. In others the presence of bacteria has been demonstrated in single cases, but their causal relation to the disease has not been proved. In many others, neither the one point nor the other has hitherto been made out. As the question at present stands then, we can only say—that among the infective diseases there are certainly some which are due to the invasion of a microphyte, and that it is highly probable the others have a like origin. If the microparasitic theory be correct, we must admit that some of the pathogenous bacteria are accustomed to develope and multiply without the body, while others only do so within it. The former kind we may describe as ectogenous, the latter as endogenous. The distinction must not however be over much insisted on. Sometimes the ectogenous bacteria proceed to multiply within the body, while the endogenous bacteria may meet with the necessary conditions for their growth (warmth and nutriment) outside it. The fact that bacteria have not been found in most of the infective diseases, at least in number sufficient to account at all for the phenomena, is no proof that the affections are non-bacterial. It must not be forgotten that the demonstration of bacteria is often a very difficult matter, and the material obtained from the post-mortem table is by no means well-fitted for this purpose. The patients examined generally live on to a comparatively ad- 19—2