( H AP. XXVI.] MESOlSliASTIC TUMOURS. OSTEOID CHONDROMA. 225 as a glioma (or fibroma) telangiectodes or cavernosum. A morbid combination of adipose tissue with mucous tissue is called lipoma m\ Nematodes or lipomyxoma; a combination of cartilage and sar- coma—chondrosarcoma; and so on. It is not rare for three or more kinds of neoplastic tissue to be found within the same tumour. A growth which starts in fascia or intermuscular fibrous tissue may consist, for example, of fibrous, sarcomatous, mucous, and adipose tissue; there may even be vascular changes here and there which give it a telangiectatic character. Such a combination is not very surprising. The neoplastic proliferation may itself result in the development of several diverse tissues—or, what is more common, the tissues of the connective group become transformed the one into the other. We shewed, for example, in Arts. 90—92, that cartilage readily passes into mucous tissue, which is also frequently produced from fibrous or adipose tissues. Sarcomatous tissue may easily be the result of proliferation of the cartilage of a chondroma, or the fibrous tissue of a fibroma; and conversely, sarcomatous tissue may equally well be transformed partially into osseous tissue. Tumours originating in bone are very apt to show a tendency to bone-formation. There are two forms especially in which this often occurs—-namely, osteoid chondroma, a combination of cartilage and bony tissue; and osteosarcoma, a combination of sarcoma and bony tissue. 165. Osteoid chondroma (or osteochondroma) chiefly affects the larger long bones. If no sarcomatous proliferation has modi- fied it, it usually forms a hard tumour seated on the bone or embracing it. It often reaches an enormous size; and cannot be cut with the knife, unless a patch of unaltered cartilage be hit upon. When sawn through, the cut surface has the look of dense white continuous bone: on closer examination this is seen to be interspersed with streaks and islands of more translucent cartilage. Fig. 58 shows well the general texture of the growth and its matrix, and its relation to the bone. The section represented is taken from a tumour of the humerus. The tumour was very firm and bony, and surrounded the bone so as to double its diameter. It was found on dividing the bone longitudinally that the medullary spaces were filled with firm tumour-tissue of the same structure as the periosteal growth. The original bone was only recognisable in the region of its cortical layer. Fig. 58 represents a section taken at right angles to the axis of the bone, and including the periosteal growth, the cortical layer, and a part of the altered cancellous tissue. We find instead of periosteum a mass of cartilaginous tissue (g) interspersed thickly with bony trabeculae (A). These run generally at right angles to the surface of the original bone, but anastomose freely. Small lacunae and canals are seen throughout the cartilage; they contain a few blood-vessels and a small amount of fibrous M. 15