274 [SECT. VII. PAEASITES. ganised' ferments. Such unorganised ferments can, for instance, change lactose into fermentable sugar, transform starch and cellulose into grape sugar, and render soluble coagulated albumen and other insoluble albuminoids. In consequence of such changes milk may undergo alcoholic fermentation, wood may become soft and rotten, damp bread turn sour, and insoluble albuminous matters be transformed into a putrid ammoniacal slime. Under the influence of bacteria are also developed certain bitter, acrid, and nauseous products of whose composition nothing is known (as when milk turns bitter). Now and again colouring matters are produced by them, red, yellow, green, blue, and violet. So bread may become covered with a blood-red film of Micrococcus prodigiosus ('bleeding' bread). Bandages and pus in wounds become blue from the presence of Micrococcus cyaneus. Boiled eggs exposed to moist air are often quickly covered over with a yellow film of Micrococcus luteus. The hypotheses proposed to explain fermentation, especially the alcoholic fermentation, have been very various. Some of them attempt to connect the process intimately with the vital activity of the cells which give rise to it; others seek to separate them. Liebig describes the process as a molecular motion transmitted by matter (the unformed ferment) already in a state of chemical motion (i.e. in the act of decomposing) to other matters composed of elements in loose combination. Hoppe-Setlbr and Traube (Pfliiger's Arch, xn, 1875, and Physiologische Chemie) imagine that the cells secrete certain unformed ferments, which produce decomposition by mere contact (or catalytically), without themselves taking part in the chemical changes they set up. Pasteur (Annal. de Chimie et de Phys. 58, 64; Comptes Rendus, 45, 46, 47, .")6, 80; Studies on Fermentation London 1879 ; Duclaux's Ferments et Maladies Paris 1882) regards fermentation as immediately dependent on the activity of the living cells. Fermentation begins only when the supply of free oxygen to the cells is restricted. They then begin to abstract oxygen from the compounds contained in the nutrient liquid, and so disturb their molecular equilibrium. Nageli's physical (or molecular) theory (Abhand. d. bayr. Akad. math.- physic. CI. xiii p. 76, 1879) supposes that the natural motions of the molecules and atoms of the various constituents of the living cell-protoplasm are transmitted mechanically to the fermenting matter. The protoplasmic constituents remain chemically unchanged, but the molecular equilibrium of the fermenting matter is disturbed, and disintegration results. Nageli's theory emphasises strongly the dependence of the fermentive process on the life of the cells, and is thus in harmony with our general view that all vital processes are ultimately cellular. The power of exciting fermentive decomposition in nutrient liquids is very probably possessed not merely by bacteria and yeast-cells but also by the cells of higher organisms, as of man. Voit (Physiologic des StoffwecJi- sels Leipzig 1881) refers the disintegration of the soluble albumen circulating through the system to fermentive action of the tissue-cells. Pasteur has shown that in proper conditions fruits and leaves may exhibit fermentive properties. The chemical changes occurring in the putrid decomposition of the albuminoids have been studied by Nencki, Salkowski, Brieger, and Hiller. See Hiller, Die Lehre von der Fiiulniss Berlin 1879; Nencki, Zersetzv/ng der Gelatine und des Fiweisses bei der Fdulniss mit Pancreas