280 [SECT. VII. PARASITES. such as at present escape our notice, either from their apparent slightness, or because they are not such as our tests can discover. Yet they doubtless consist in very real and very special differences in the condition of the tissues. Many of the bacteria can only come to development within the human body on rare occasions, as their usual habitat is without it. Others only meet with tit conditions for their existence and growth within the body, and do not multiply at all without it. The respective parts played by the inherent properties of the bacterium and the predisposition of the tissues to invasion have been illustrated by many observations both clinical and experimental. If a mass of bacteria of different forms be introduced into an animal's body, some of the forms develope and lead to certain tissue-changes, others perish inert. If a similar mass be injected into an animal of a different kind, the bacteria which develope are not the same as in the first instance. Koch (Aetiologie der Wundinfectionskrankheiten Leipzig 1878, Traumatic Infective Diseases London 1880) has shown that there is a fungus which brings certain death to one species of mouse, while it is entirely inactive when introduced into another species of mouse. Mice are highly susceptible to the infection of anthrax; rats enjoy an almost perfect immunity. The poison of 'rabbit- septicaemia' kills rabbits and mice with unfailing certainty; guinea-pigs and rats are unaffected by it; sparrows and pigeons again are highly susceptible. The spirillum of human relapsing fever will develope only in monkeys among the lower animals. Animals of the same species but differing in age have different degrees of susceptibility. Young dogs are easily infected with anthrax, old ones are not (Koch). We cannot at all tell on what circumstances immunity of this kind can possibly rest. Similar examples are easily obtained (Arts. 204, 206). The majority of the infective disorders are in fact limited each to a few species of animals or to a single one. Differences also exist in respect of the diffusion of the bacteria through the body. The fungus, which in one kind of animal brings about a fatal general disease, may in others produce a merely local and non-fatal dis- turbance. Even the point of entrance of the bacteria into the body has its importance. A rabbit inoculated with bacteria in the back of the neck may die, while inoculation of the ear is followed by a simple local affection. Rossbach has quite recently announced (Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 5, 1882) that injection of papayotin into the vessels is followed by a rapid development of micrococci in the blood, so that in two hours the blood in the heart is found to be swarming with them. If this observation be confirmed, it would seem to show that the composition of the blood is so altered by the unorganised vegetable ferment that germs can proceed to develope in it which before were unable to do so. In other words, that the action of a chemical substance has called forth a special predisposition. Rosenberger (Centralb. f. med. Wiss. 4 and 41, 1882) observed a like result after the injection of sterilised septic blood. The animals died of septicaemia, bacteria being developed. If the injected liquid were really sterilised, we can only interpret the observation as showing that the septic matter so altered the blood and liquids of the animals as to make them predisposed for the development of micro-organisms. The experiments do not however seem quite free from objection. In 1869 Semner com- municated similar results, which he obtained with the use of sepsin prepared from yeast (Viertelj. f. wiss. Veterin. xxxii). Boser maintains that the most essential condition for the settlement of bacteria in the body is their adaptation to the quantum of mineral salts present in the blood and tiss\ies. This can hardly be a sufficient condition.