CHAP. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIO TUMOURS. OSTEOMA. 203 Osseous formations connected with the bones have received different names according to their site and disposition. Hyper- ostosis is diffused and extensive overgrowth in a bone. When the new-formed tissue is seated upon a definite spot in the old bone it is described as an osteophyte ; or, if it be larger and more like a tumour, as an exostosis. Circumscribed bony growths in the interior of bones are called enostoses. Bony growths which are not rigidly connected with the bone are divided into—mobile periosteal exostoses, which are seated on the periosteum though separate from the bone; parosteal osteomata placed near to the bone, but not connected with it; independent osteomata remote from the bone and seated in tendon or muscle; and finally, the strictly heteroplastic osteomata, which may be seated in the lungs, brain-membranes, diaphragm, skin (rarely), parotid gland, &c. Excrescences also occur in connexion with the teeth. If they consist of cement or crustapetrosa, they are called dental osteomata: if they consist of dentine they are odontomata. The latter originate in a hyperplasia of the pulp during the development of the tooth. The texture of an osseous tumour may resemble that of ivory, as in eburnated osteoma; or it may be soft and spongy, as in spongy or cancellous osteoma; the former varieties are built up of dense and compact tissue with narrow nutrient canals, and similar to the cortical layer of the long bones. The latter are built of thin and delicate trabeculae enclosing large medullary spaces; they are allied in texture to cancellous bone. The surface is sometimes uniform and smooth, so that the entire tumour is conical, spherical, or pyriform: sometimes it is irregular, rough, or tuberculated, without any definite figure. Ivory-like tumours are generally of the first kind: they occur most commonly as exostoses of the skull. Spongy exostoses are of the second kind, as are also the independent and heteroplastic osteomata. The development of the osseous tissue in tumours follows the course described in Art. 88. It is effected partly by tbe agency of osteoblasts, partly by metaplasia of the existing tissue. The ground- substance is chiefly derived from the connective tissue of the peri- osteum and of the structures in which the tumour is bedded; as well as from cartilage and bone-marrow. When cartilage is first produced by periosteal proliferation, and then transformed into bone, the growth is described as a cartilaginous exostosis. When bone is directly produced, by suppression of the cartilaginous stage, we have a fibrous exostosis. Many abnormal bony growths are not strictly speaking tumours, but rather hyperplasias resulting from excessive growth or inflamma- tion. This is true not only of most hyperostoses, osteophytes, and exostoses, but also of some parostoses and independent osteomata. Of this nature are the bony growths produced in the adductors of the thigh by constant riding, and in the deltoid by the shouldering of the rifle in manual-exercise. In what way fibrous tissues which