BLASTOMYOETES OR YEASTS. CHAP. XXXI.] 319 fungus (Torida). When it multiplies in a liquid containing sugar, alcohol and carbonic acid are generated. It has therefore been described as Saccharomyces. The scum which forms on the surface of alcoholic liquors and leads to their transformation into vinegar also contains a yeast-fungus: it is distinguished as Mycoderma vini or ' mother of vinegar.' Naegeli maintains that Tonda and Mycoderma are not distinct species. Sachs classes the yeasts with the bacteria as Protophyta. Brefeld regards them as probably mere low forms of the moulds or filamentous fungi. Cien- kowsky's paper on Mycoderma is in the Melanges biologiques...de Vacad. de St Pe'tersbourg vol. vni; Grawitz's in Virch. Arch. vol. 70. On Saccharomyces and alcoholic fermentation see Reess, Bot. Untersuch. iib. d. Alkoholgiihrungs- ptizc Leipzig 1870 ; Pasteur, Op. cit. (Art. 191), Studies on Fermentation London 1879; Mater, Lehrbuch d. Gcdirungschemie 1876 ; Schutzenberger, Fermentation London 1876; Brefeld, Phys. med. GeseUsch. zu WUrzburg v, 1873; Hiller, Die Lehre von der Fdulniss Berlin 1879. On the various theories of fermentation see Art. 191. Yeast-cells not only set up fermentation directly, but they yield an uuorganised ferment which changes cane-sugar into grape-sugar. 224. The yeast-fungi have but little pathological importance. They have no power of invading living tissue, and therefore they are only to be found in parts that are accessible from without. Even there it is only under specially favourable conditions that they are able to grow freely. There is usually no great supply of fermentable saccharine matter available for them. It is in the stomach that they are oftenest found, and there they may set up fermentation; the presence of the gastric acids does not check their development. If fermenting 'wort' or 'must' be . drunk, the fermentation goes on in the stomach. According to Grawitz the white patches known as 'thrush' (or aphthae) which form in the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus of weakly children and debilitated patients are due to the presence of Mycoderma vini. The mycelial filaments and spores found in these patches have usually been regarded as belonging to an O'idium distinguished as 0. cdbicans. Grawitz has shown that on cultiva- tion the filaments gemmate like Torula -and Mycoderma. He has further proved experimentally that the latter can be grown in the epithelium of the mucous membrane. The subepithelial fibrous tissue is not usually invaded, and then only when by antecedent changes, constitutional or other, the resisting power of the tissues has been considerably diminished.