INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. 142 99. The textural changes. Inflammatory change in the vessels must of necessity be associated with tissue-change, antece- dent, concomitant, or subsequent. An injury from without which excites change in the vessel must always in the first instance affect a certain number of tissue-cells. By what is said in Arts. 78—80 we see that all such an injury can do is to set up disorganising and degenerative changes in the cells. If the injury be slight, the cells may recover: if it be graver, a certain number of them will perish. Multiplication is never induced by excitation of the cells from without. When the injurious agent affects the vessels primarily, being brought to them by the blood, there are two events possible. If the noxa be very powerful, it will attack (or even kill) not only the vessel-wall, but the surrounding tissue also. If it is of trifling intensity, and its operation is thus confined to the vessel-wall, the surrounding tissue escapes in the first instance. It will be affected secondarily only when the injury to the vessel-wall is great enough to lead to inflammatory disturbance of the circulation, and so to disordered nutrition of the tissue. Experiment and post-mortem observation have alike shown that in severe inflammation a certain number of cells invariably perish. The so-called 'inflammatory stimulus' does not induce multiplication, but only degeneration and death, in the cells of the tissue. The slighter the inflammatory stimulus the less is the injury to the tissue. The degenerative and destructive effects of the exciting injury are least in the mildest forms of inflammation. Cohnheim's discovery of the migration of white blood-cells suggested a possible source of the extraneous cells found in all inflamed tissues, and in particular a possible source of pus. But the question has often been raised whether all these extraneous cells (round-cells or leucocytes) are derived from the blood. Before the discovery of migration, it was assumed that these leucocytes were the product of the multiplication of tissue-cells, excited to proliferate by the ' inflammatory stimulus.' But it was quickly seen that there were well-founded objections to this hypothesis. Cohnheim himself {Virch. Arch. vol. 40) had shown, and that before he made his discovery, that it was impos- sible to suppose that all pus-corpuscles arose from fixed cells : and that even the migratory connective-tissue cells of Von Kecklinghausen were inadequate to produce the enormous multitudes of cells found in pus. Numerous investigations made since then have shown that pus-corpuscles are derived solely from the blood, and that cells of the lymphoid type (such as pus- corpuscles) are never produced from fixed tissue-cells (Cohnheim, Neue Unters. iib. d. Entziind. Berlin 1873, Virch. Arch. vol. 61 ; Key and Wallis, Virch. Arch. vol. 55 ; Eberth, Unters. a. d. path. Inst, in Zurich Parts 2 and 3). As has been stated in the text, the tissue-cells either show signs of degeneration or perish outright, and in this condition mingle with the exudations. This doctrine has not been without its opponents. Among the chief are Bottcher (Virch. Arch, vols 58, 62) and Stricker, with some of his pupils {Studien aus d. Inst, fiir cxper. Path, in Wien 1870; various essays in the Wien. med. Jahrb. 1871—1880; Vorles. iib. allg. Path. Vienna 1877—1879 ; Internat. Encyclop. of Surgery vol. i). Bottcher's objections have been completely answered by the painstaking experiments of the observers above cited. Stricker's observations are admirably described by Burdon Sander-