502 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. produce, so the infective micrococci are classified into species according to their pathogenous properties. Koch has shown that in the case of many bacterial affections it is possible to discover in the fungi well-marked morphological differences corresponding to the physiological differences (Traumatic Infective Diseases 1880). Struck's papers also contain many valuable contributions of this nature. See Arts. 204—207 for further references. 209. Each specific microparasitic disease presupposes a specific exciting cause, that is, a bacterium with special physiological properties. In affirming this proposition we do not imply that the specific bacterium constitutes a distinct species in the biological sense. This is a question which cannot be answered by the physician: it belongs to the biologist. He will have to make out whether the properties attributed to the bacterium are constant, and whether these properties are the only ones possessed by the corresponding biological species. On these points observers differ widely. Koch from his culture-experiments has come to the conclusion that the patho- genous bacteria, like the non-pathogenous, do not alter in their properties. If bacteria be cultivated for several generations, the same developmental forms continually recur, and their physio- logical properties remain in every respect the same. Even when the nutrient medium is altered from time to time no recognisable differences are produced. Koch does not dispute that mutability of species is possible among bacteria, but he holds that no adequate evidence has yet been brought to prove it. This view has now many adherents, especially among clinical observers. Some go even further and assert that mutability of species is impossible. The most important opponents of Koch on this point are Naegeli, Davaine, Buchner, and Wernich. Naegeli thinks that both the morphological and the physiological characters of the bacteria are mutable. A given bacillus does not invariably produce bacilli of the same structure, and does not always pass through the same developmental stages. A bacterium which under given conditions gives rise to a definite kind of fermentation may lose this property when cultivated under different conditions (Art. 192). Thus the same fungus can set up butyric acid fermentation or lactic acid fermentation according to circumstances. Naegeli regards the various species of bacteria above described not as biological sj^ecies, but as vegetative forms of a few as yet undetermined species. Eeferences:—Nageli, Die niederen Pilze Munich 1877 and 1882; Buchner, Die iVageli'sche Tkeorie Leipzig 1878; Birch-Hirschfeld, Schmidts Jahrbiiclier 1875; Wernich, Die accoinmodatire Ziiofitung der Infectionsstofe, Kosmos 4, 1880; Die Entwiokelung der organisirten Krankheitsgifte Berlin 1880; Dcs- infectionslehrc 1880; Pasteur, De Vattenuation des virus et dc lew rctour a la