INTKODUCTION. 5 The life of the entire organism as well as of the several organs is bound to the component cells: it is the activities of the latter which we perceive and accept as the manifestation of life. As disease of the unicellular organism is but abnormal action of the sinole cell, so human disease is but abnormal action of a multi- plicity of cells. Naturally the question becomes now much more complex. With the multiplication of the cellular elements, with their differentiation into diverse organs, arises the possibility of local disease. Nay it is all but inconceivable that, when the complex human organism is invaded by disease, each and every cell should thereupon simultaneously err from its normal function. As a fact experience shows that every disease has its local seat or seats : in other words it is not the entire organism which is diseased, but only some of its organs, or only individual cell-groups forming parts of organs. We speak therefore of organic and of local diseases. Which cell-groups become affected in any special case depends upon two factors: on the one side upon the external causes in operation, on the other upon the physiological nature of the tissue affected. A given injury does not affect every cell in the same degree. The vital properties of the cells of multicellular organisms are highly diverse, and so also is their power of resisting diverse influences. An injury that does not affect in the slightest the functions of one cell-group or organ may produce grave disturbances in those of another: a different injury may paralyse the tissues in one region, and in another stimulate them to increased activity. This difference in behaviour can depend only upon causes inherent in the cell and arising from its specific properties. It is the evidence of a specific predisposition of individual tissues to specific disorders. On the other hand the influences which can injuriously affect the organism as such are innumerable, and the manner as well as the seat of their operation exceedingly various. If then we duly regard the great variety of the causes of disease on the one hand, and on the other the equally great diversity of structure and therefore of predisposition among the tissues, we shall not be likely to under-estimate the difficulty that in most cases meets us when we try to determine the nature and the origin of a disease in man. Here also it is true that the ultimate cause of disease is external; but the place and time and manner of its operation are far harder to determine than in the case of unicellular organisms. Sometimes it may be quite impossible to fix the ultimate deter- mining factor, especially when an organ is attacked only in some of its elements and its functions are thus but slightly or imperceptibly affected. There is still another fact to be considered—the propagation of disease from one organ to another. It often happens that an