CHAP. .Will.] CELLULAR PROCESSES IN HYPERPLASIA ETC. 113 processes involved in karyokinetic subdivision are in all cases essentially the same, at least in so far as they are to be made out optically. He thinks the apparent differences are not so great as Strasburger conceives them to be. It is of great interest to note the fact established by Flemming—that in the segmentation of the ovum the process of nucleus-division follows through- out that which we have described as the karyokinetic mode (Balfour, Comp. Embryology I, 3). This mode of nucleus-division has often been observed and described as occurring in pathological proliferations. The chief memoirs are by Eberth (Virch. Arch. vol. 67), Arnold (Virch. Arch. vols. 77, 78), Flemming (loc. cit.), Martin (Virch. Arch. vol. 86), Drasch (Wiener Sitzungsber. 1881), Klein (Quart. Journ. Micr. Science 1878 and 1879). Priestley gives a summary of the early researches in Q. Journ. M. S. 1876 ; Cunningham reviews the more recent ones in the same journal, Jan. 1882. 75. These structural changes in the nucleus point unmistake- ably to the energetic internal motions which affect its molecules in the process of growth. Our knowledge of the molecular changes in the cell-protoplasm is unfortunately more meagre and incom- plete. Here however it is also j)ossible to make out by proper means—that the protoplasm assumes a special structure, and that various movements and transmutations of form occur amongst its component elements. Thus in certain cases nucleus-division is accompanied by lively rotary movements in the protoplasm. Such transformations and transpositions explain certain phenomena which are frequently observed—for example, the formation of a transparent areola round the subdividing nucleus, of radiating lines of granules making up the so-called ' karyolytic' figure, &c. Such radiating lines of granules have especially been seen in the process of impreg- nation of the ovum. They occur in the neighbourhood of the male and female pronuclei, and have been described as the aster (BALFOUR, Comp. Embryology vol. i, ch. 3). Flemming, as well as Strasburger, assigns to the cell-protoplasm an essential part in the process of subdivision. STRASBURGER even asserts that it is the penetration of the protoplasm into the nucleus which calls forth a reciprocal activity in the latter, and so gives it an impulse towards subdivision. Whether this be true or not we cannot at present decide, inasmuch as no penetration of the protoplasm into the nucleus has ever been directly observed. The ordering of the granules into radiate figures, like the other movements of the protoplasm hitherto observed, takes place as a rule simultaneously with the process of nucleus-division. In some cases however it may precede, in others it may succeed, the latter. Thus, according to Gruber (Zool. Anzeiger 1880) the infusorian Euglypha alveolata first gives rise to a daughter-cell, then the nucleus becomes subdivided and migrates into the daughter-cell; while at the same time active movements become visible in the cell-protoplasm. A special form of cell-division is that which takes place after an antecedent conjugation. It is common among the infusorians. In order to make out the nuclear figures, the cell must be examined either in the living state or after treatment while still living with a rapidly fixing M. 8