GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 21 CHAP. I.] by defective closure, whether total or partial, of the larger body- cavities (pleural, peritoneal or cerebrospinal); or, on the otber hand, by defective development of the extremities. The causes of malformation in any given case can only be approximatively determined, or referred to this or that hypothetical injury: nevertheless we can generally indicate the direction in which the cause of the defect is to be sought. Monstrosities by defect are commonly malformations by arrest: they owe their existence to a local hindrance to the development of a normally constituted embryo. It is but seldom, and then chiefly in cases where the entire body is affected (as in dwarfs), that we can attribute the effect to heredity; even of such cases the hereditary ones form by no means the majority. The influences which check and hinder growth are to be sought in alteration, injury, or disease of the uterus, or in disease of the foetus itself. To the first class belong defective development or disease of the membranes and placenta (uterine or foetal), adhesion of the amnion to the foetus, abnormally small quantity of liquor amnii, tumours of the uterus, concussions of the uterus with separation of the membranes, hemorrhages in the membranes or in their neighbourhood, &c. As concerns the foetus itself, its de- velopment may be disturbed by inflammatory affections which it acquires by transmission from the mother (Small-pox, Scarlatina, Endocarditis), or by inherited disease such as Syphilis. In the earlier stages of development abnormal twists or flexures of the embryo may be enough to cause very serious hindrances to growth. The influences we have cited may act in various ways. Many arrest growth mechanically by simple pressure: others hinder the circulation so that the foetus or some of its parts receive too scanty a supply of blood, and thus the growth is retarded. Other affec- tions, such as the inflammations, actually destroy parts already formed and so render their further growth impossible. Not infrequently several factors may act at the same time, or the malformation of one organ, like the heart, may involve detriment to the proper development of the others. The point of time at which the disturbing influence makes itself felt may of course vary greatly, and so by consequence will vary the intensity of its effect. The earlier the injury the greater is usually its effect. The loss of a few cells in the earlier stages of growth may involve the absence of an entire organ or limb; while later on, after the general form is nearly complete, the same loss might not be noticeable at all. Malformations, in the narrower sense of the term, originate for the most part in the first three months of foetal life. By the end of that time the general form of the body and its members is well defined. Later disturbances give rise rather to changes that manifest themselves after birth as congenital disorders: they are therefore more fitly regarded as the anatomical basis of foetal diseases, than as true malformations.