AKTHUOi'ODA. 321 CHAP. XXXII.] (1) Acarus scabiei (Sarcoples hominis), or itch-insect. This mito is about the size of a small pin-head, and somewhat turtle- shaped. It has four pairs of legs springing from the ventral surface, each being furnished with bristly hairs (Fig. 86). The anterior pairs arc prolonged into stalked suckers, as are also the posterior pairs in the male. The foremost of the two posterior pairs in the male and both posterior pairs in the female end in a long bristle. The border of the body behind is likewise furnished with bristles, and the dorsal surface is beset with tooth-like hooks and spines. The head is blunt and rounded, and beset with bristles. The female is about twice the size of the male. The mite lodges in the epidermal layer of the skin, in which it excavates burrows or owrticuli that may run to 10 mm. in length. In these burrows the female lays her eggs. From the eggs the young acari are hatched in loco: they proceed to burrow further into the epidermis, and after changing their skin several times become sexually mature. The irritation caused by their pre- sence produces inflammation of the skin. This again is greatly intensified by the scratching induced by the intolerable itching of the affected parts. (2) Leptus autumnalis, or harvest-mite. This likewise infests the epidermis. It is red in colour, and thus is readily seen in spite of its smallness. It gives rise to the formation of papules and wheals. Two allied American species are the Leptus Ameri- canus and L. irritans. (3) Acarus (Demodex) folliculorum (Fig. 87). A third mite, which is found solitary or in small numbers in the sebaceous matter of the follicles in perfectly healthy skin. It is about 0'2mm. long, and bears four pahs of short stumpy feet on the thorax. The head bears a proboscis and a pair of short antennae. It has no pathological significance. (4) Ixodes ricinus (hominis),. or wood-tick, is also an occasional parasite of the skin. It buries its proboscis in the tissues and sucks its fill of blood. It belongs to the Acarina, as do also the American /. unipunctata and /. bovis. (5) Pentastoma denticulatum (Fig. 88). This is an arachnoid, which in its larval state lodges in the internal organs. Its body is 4—5 mm. long, 1*5 mm. broad, squat and rounded, and possessing some ninety annular segments which are beset with spines at their margins. The mouth is surrounded by four large hooks in chitinous sheaths. The larva chiefly inhabits the liver, more rarely the spleen, intestine, lung, or kidney. When looked for post mortem the Fig Acarus lohum PERLS 87. ITOLLICU- . (From : x300) M. 21