RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. 88 the tissue to be tested, stains the amyloid substance a dark brownish red or mahogany colour. If added to a section under the microscope the staining is a bright brownish red, while the unaffected tissue remains pale yellow. Where the degeneration is extreme the tissue may become almost woody in consistence, and then the staining may be violet or blue or greenish. If the ordinary iodine-stained tissue be treated with very dilute sulphuric acid, the amyloid patches take on a darker brown, or become violet, blue, or greenish: but the reaction is generally imperfect. Methyh aniline or aniline-violet stain the amyloid substance bright ruby- red, and the healthy tissue blue or dark indigo. The peculiar iodine-reaction was first observed by Virchow, the discoverer of the amyloid substance. This reaction led him to consider the amyloid substance as a non-nitrogenous body allied to cellulose and starch. Cellulose, when treated with iodine and strong sulphuric acid, is stained bright blue. Starch with iodine alone gives an ultramarine tint. For this reason Virchow called the new body 'amyloid'. It was not until some years later that Friedreich and Kekule proved the amyloid substance to be nitrogenous, to be in fact an albuminoid body. The special reaction of the amyloid substance enables us to detect its presence in the tissues, even when to the eye it is not differentiated from them. In examining fresh specimens in a cursory way, the only precaution necessary is to see that the surface is washed free from blood: the red colour of the blood blended with the yellow of the iodine may simulate the characteristic brownish-red staining. ' The amyloid substance is very slightly acted on by acids or alkalies. Alcohol and chromic acid do not alter it at all: and it has the power of withstanding putrid decomposition for a long time. It is not dissolved by gastric juice at the temperature of the body. Amyloid degeneration was not altogether unknown before Virchow's researches. Kokitansky had previously introduced the names bacon-liver or lardaceous liver, waxy liver, bacon-spleen, sago-spleen. But it was Virchow who first investigated the nature of the amyloid substance, first of all in amyloid concretions (Art. 61), afterwards in degenerated tissues; and he discovered the iodine reaction (Virch. Arch. vols. 6, 8). Friedreich and KekulIs first showed that the substance was nitrogenous {Virch. Arch. vol. 16), which was confirmed by Rudnepf and Kuehne {Virch. Arch. vol. 33). The literature of the subject is fully given by Kyber, who has also made numerous additions to our knowledge regarding its occurrence {Die amyloide Degeneration Dorpat 1871, and Virch. Arch. vol. 81). Jurgens first described the colour-reaction with iodised methyl-aniline (Virch. Arch. vol. 65); Cornil studied the reactions with other aniline colours {Arch, de physiol. 1874). Dickinson showed that a characteristic blue colour is imparted to the amyloid substance by sulphate of indigo. 59. The amyloid substance is either formed or deposited in the fibrous textures of the blood-vessels, and in the walls of the smaller vessels especially.