CHAP. XXII.] LATEE STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. GRANULATION. 149 persists and continues to excite ever fresh inflammation: or a new injury may affect a part in which inflammation is declining or overpast, and kindle it afresh. Which of all these possibilities applies to a given case is often hard to determine. Very frequently several such factors are in action, either at the same time, or at different stages of the process. Plastic inflammation is, moreover, always associated with some form of degeneration. In parenchymatous organs, for instance, the growth of new fibrous tissue involves the atrophy or destruction of the proper and specific elements. Intrinsic sources of irritation of this kind are thus seldom wanting, and they maintain the inflammatory process, even when the original exciting cause has ceased to act. 106. The new tissue produced as a result of inflammation often fulfils the purpose of replacing tissue that has been lost. This application of the process is apparent in the healing of wounds. In an open skin-wound, for instance, there is formed first of all a delicate greyish-red vascular formative layer, the so-called granu- lating surface. This in a way unites the borders of the wound. After a time it becomes covered over with skin, and is transformed into fibrous tissue. The breach is thus filled up, the separated parts united, and a scar is formed. The scar or cicatrix is thus the result of an inflammatory plastic process. Scar-tissue is formed in other organs in the same way, and with the same result of replacing a loss of substance. In many cases, however, the production of new tissue by in- flammation does not serve so useful a purpose. It often takes the form of a useless or injurious hyperplasia. This happens, for example, when after inflammation the corium of the skin thickens, or the papillae become enlarged; or when the fibrous tissue of the kidney or the liver is morbidly increased, giving rise to dis- turbances in the nutrition of the organ. Even the formation of adhesions and adhesive membranes connecting the organs of the great serous cavities is often accompanied by impairment and hindrance of their functions. 107. As we have just stated (Art. 105), inflammato^ tissues are developed from extravasated leucocytes, in cases where the circulation has not been very seriously interfered with. This last ensures that the exuded corpuscles are speedily irrigated with a sufficient but not too abundant stream of plasma. These conditions are perfectly fulfilled in the aseptic healing of an ordinary wound. If an open wound be observed twenty-four hours after it is inflicted, the bottom and edges will be found to be intensely red and somewhat swollen. The elements of the tissue are still quite distinguishable, though the tissue seems turgid, and here and there small necrosed shreds are visible. On the second day, the tissues have a more gelatinous appearance, the outlines of the tissue-