CH. XXIII.] IMPERFECT RE-ABSORPTION. FOREIGN SUBSTANCES. 159 References :—Virchow's Cellular Pathology; Ponfick, Virck. Arch. vol. 48; Rindfleisch, Exper. iib. d. Histol. des Blutes 1863; Orth, Virch. Arch. vol. 56 ; Bizzozero, Med. Jahrb. 1872. 115. The process of resorption and the associated inflammation are somewhat different in character when the foreign substance forms a compact mass, offering more or less resistance to removal. Such are, for example, ligatures, drainage-tubes, ivory pegs, leaden pellets, necrosed bone, compact haemorrhagic patches, haematomata and infarcts, thrombi, coagulated or condensed exudations, necrotic cheesy masses, &c. All of these excite in the surrounding tissue a certain amount of inflammation, though its intensity is very various. If the foreign body is quite insoluble in the juices, as glass is, and if the introduction of it is unaccompanied by any injury to the tissues among which it lies (e. g. in the abdominal cavity), then the effect may be almost nothing. Bodies which are soluble, and undergo chemical changes in the tissues, usually irritate them much more, and the inflammatory processes excited are generally intense. This is also true of bodies (like bullets) which produce laceration as they penetrate the tissue. The first stage is the formation of a zone of inflammatory infiltration around the foreign body. This is followed by the development of granulation-tissue, and at length of fibrous tissue. If the foreign body is not meanwhile absorbed, it thus becomes encapsuled. Only insoluble and compact bodies can remain quite unaltered, for resorption is as it were attempted, even though it be in vain. Bodies which are at all assailable are sure sooner or later to undergo changes. These ensue as follows:—the migratory leucocytes, transformed into uninuclear or multinuclear formative cells, attach themselves to the surface of the object. If this be made up of smaller parts, or if particles of necrosed tissue be mingled with it (such as decomposed blood in haemorrhagic patches), these are taken up by the cells and carried off in the manner set forth in Art. 114. If the body be compact and not to be broken up, the cells cling to its surface. If there be accessible cavities or clefts in it, they penetrate into these. If the cells be insufficiently nourished, they become fatty and die. If new vessels are formed to supply them, they develope as granulations. Very often indeed multinuclear or giant-cells are found in such circumstances. A dead piece of bone inserted under the skin of an animal, and examined a few weeks after, will be found interpenetrated with vascular granulations, and the trabeculae will be beset in many places with giant-cells. The whole process is very similar to that of physiological bone-resorption. By means of the clinging cells blood-clots, necrotic patches, inserted pieces of dead liver or lung, ligatures, &c. are absorbed amid the granulations. They are partly softened and dissolved, partly broken up and carried away.