277 ('HAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. Nageli {Die niederen Pilze Munich 1877) asserts that fungi can only pass into the air when their nutrient liquids dry up. Soyka {Mimoh. acad, Sitzungsber., math.-phys. CI. 1871) has shown that bacteria may be swept out of liquids that contain them by gentle air-currents. Buchner {Ueb. d. Beding. d. Ueberganges von Pilzen in d. Luft u. Mb. d. Einathmung derselben, Zwr Aetiol. d. infectionskrankh. Munich 1881) disputes Soyka's conclusions. He maintains that even strong currents of air are insufficient to sweep bacteria from a liquid : and that even in the case of dried-up masses containing fungi, the fungi are not set free unless the surface is actually broken. Zieguor agrees rather with Bdchner's view. Nageli further thinks that very slight upward air-currents are enough to prevent floating bacteria from settling down. The condensed watery vapour that surrounds them tends to maintain their buoyancy. Friction also retards their fall. See Soyka, Ueb. Canalgase als Verbreiter epidem. Krankh. and Ueb. Richtung und Starke d. Luftzuges in Sielen, Deutsche Viertelj. f. qfent Gesundh. xiv, 1882 ; and Ueb. d. Natur und d. Verbreiticng d. Jnfec- tionserreger, Zur Aetiol. d. Infectionskrankh. Munich 1881; Nageli, Untersueh. lib. nied. Pilze. Munich 1882. Wernich {Cokn's Beit. z. Biol. d. Pflanzen in) has shown that air-currents may sweep off bacteria from moist fungus-masses adhering to the surface of solid bodies. Researches on the bacteria and bacterial germs found in the air have been published by Cohn {loc. eit.), Miquel {Des bacUries atmosphe'riques, Gaz. meet, de Paris 30, 1880), Wernich (Virch. Arch. vol. 79), Tyndall {Floating-matter of the air London 1881); Cunningham {Microscopic exam, of air Calcutta 1874) gives an excellent summary of previous observa- tions. On bacteria and their germs in the soil, see Koch {loc. cit.\ and Ceci {Arch. f. exp. Path. xv). 194. Consideration of the wide-spread occurrence of the bacteria and their peculiar vital properties mil already have raised the question whether these micro-organisms may not have the power of exciting more or less grave disturbances in the human system, provided they obtain an entrance into it. We have seen that almost all fluids contain bacteria or their germs, unless they are actually poisonous or are ' sterilised' by appropriate means, such as by boiling. Micro-organisms are also frequently found in solid organic matters. In view of this it would seem that we cannot avoid swallowing numbers of bacteria with our food. Moreover we frequently eat articles which are in a state of partial putridity or fermentation (such as cheese and milk) : in this state they of course contain numerous bacteria. The alimentary tract must thus be reached by enormous multitudes of bacteria together with the products of decomposition which they set up. This is however by no means the only way in which we come into intimate relation with these organisms. The air always contains a greater or lesser number of them. In breathing we draw them into the lungs, and they settle in the bronchi or alveoli. Lastly, all parts exposed to the air come into contact with bacteria, the unwounded skin as well as the wounded or abraded skin. What becomes of all these organisms ? The greater number undoubtedly pass out of the body again. It is hardly possible that