INTRODUCTION. 2 An Amoeba observed in a suitable liquid under the microscope manifests its vital activity by altering its form. It sends out fine prolongations from its pale finely-granular body-protoplasm. It fixes one or other of these to some object in its neighbourhood. Then its main mass flows towards them and blends with them again. If there be any fine particles suspended in the liquid and these happen to come within reach of the amoeba as it moves forward, the animal flows round about them as it were, and so takes them up into its substance. Let us now change the external conditions by raising the temperature a few degrees. The result is that the movements, hitherto perhaps slow and languid, at once become more lively— the vital activity of the cell is increased. Raise the temperature higher still—the movements gradually cease. At a certain degree of warmth the cell becomes quite stiff and still, and only when the temperature is allowed to sink to its former level do the original movements gradually re-appear. By cooling down the liquid we bring about a like result. The cell gradually ceases to move and becomes a mere inert globule. When the temperature is again raised it regains its power of movement. Now add to the liquid a concentrated solution of common salt—the cell becomes turbid and shrivels up, its outline becoming irregular. Or pass a constant galvanic current through the liquid—the cell takes on a spherical form, becomes inflated, loses its fine granulation, becomes a mere vesicle with clear contents, and finally bursts. These experiments show in clear and simple fashion how in consequence of changes in the external conditions the manifesta- tions of life in the cell also change. The change may take the form of temporary increase, or of temporary diminution and arrest, or of permanent cessation. When the cell bursts we cannot pretend to doubt that it has ceased to exist as a cell: it is in fact dead. Even the shrunken salted cell, though its structure may be less affected, must still be regarded as dead, for in no way can we succeed in again obtaining from it any manifestation of life. Permanent cessation of all the functions of the cell is what we mean when we speak of its death ; even though at first sight the anatomical structure of the cell is not destroyed. But in the first experiments the case is very different. When the temperature is raised or lowered in a moderate degree, only one of the cell-functions is suspended, the function of movement. The nutritive activity persists: hence it is that on readjustment of the temperature the motor activity is re-established. This cannot be spoken of as death. A condition in which there is not cessation of all the functions but only a partial suspension, diminution, increase, or alteration of any kind in some of them we distinguish as a mor- bid or diseased condition. The notion of disease is thus at the