CHAP. VI.] UAEMORllHACE. Fresh effusions of blood have the colour characteristic of arterial or of venous blood, as the case may be. In the course of time the extravasation undergoes certain well- marked changes. Especially remarkable are the changes of colour seen in ecchymoses and sugillations of the skin, which pass through tints of brown, blue, green, and yellow. Ultimately the extravasa- tion is absorbed (Arts. 68 and 112—116). 27. The escape of blood from the vessels occurs in two distinct ways. A large and sudden haemorrhage always implies a solution of continuity in the vessel-wall. This has been distinguished as haemorrhage by rupture (per rhexin, per diabrosin) or, clinically, as apoplexy. Such solutions of continuity are the only causes of arterial bleeding: but from veins and capillaries bleeding may occur in another way, namely by what is called diapedesis. In this process the blood passes through a vessel-wall in which no rent exists. The escape is not sudden but gradual. The blood- cells slip through the vessel-wall one after the other. Liquid escapes at the same time ; but it is not simply plasma, for it contains less albumen (Arts. 24, 25). These haemorrhages often remain small and circumscribed; but occasionally the process continues for a longer time, and then the infiltration of the tissue with blood-cells may go on to a serious extent. It must not be supposed that haemorrhage by apoplexy (or rupture) is always large, or haemorrhage by diapedesis always small. A rent in a capillary or a small vein will give rise to no great loss of blood; while the haemorrhage from long-continued diapedesis may reach an alarming magnitude. In a given case it is often by no means easy, often indeed quite impossible, to decide whether haemorrhage has occurred by rupture or by diapedesis. The process of diapedesis may be observed under the microscope. For this purpose the mesentery or the foot-web of a frog is used (Cohnheim). If the veins of outflow have first been ligatured, the capillaries and veins of the membrane are seen to be crammed with blood. After a certain time the red blood-corpuscles begin to escape from the capillaries and veins (compare Cohnheim, Allgemeine Pathologie I, and Virch. Arch. vol. 41). The process is to be regarded as one of filtration (Hering, Sitzungsberichtc der Wiener Akademie 57, 1868). As a result of the arrested outflow the blood seeks to escape laterally ; it is in fact squeezed through the vessel-wall. We owe to Arnold some very beautiful researches upon the diapedesis of red blood-corpuscles, as well as of other particulate substances introduced into the vessels (Virch. Arch. vols. 58, 62, 64). Arnold at first thought it must be admitted that at the points of escape of the particles holes or slits occur, which he called stigmata and stomata: afterwards however he recognised the supposed openings to be merely aggregations of the intercellular or cementing substance of the endothelial cells. Under pathological conditions this substance be- comes loose, and readily permits the corpuscular elements of the blood to pass through. Some beautiful physical experiments in illustration of the processes involved in diapedesis have been lately described by Hamilton (Proc. Roy. Hoc. Edin. vol. xi). See also Schklarewsky, Pfliigera Arch. vol. I. 28. The cause of rupture of the vessel-wall is either traumatic *