103 CHAP. XVI.] FORMATION OF PIGMENT IN THE TISSUES. bile, there is said to occur also a haematogenous form resulting from a disintegration of blood within the blood-vessels: this is however disputed by many observers. The hypothesis of a haematogenous jaundice was based on certain experi- mental phenomena by Kuhne (Virch. Arch. vol. 14). He injected dog's blood, in which the corpuscles had becomed dissolved, into the vessels and then found bile-pigments in the urine. Kunkel {Virch. Arch. vol. 79) questions the decisiveness of these experiments. Since bile-pigments are formed in the liver by the disintegration of red corpuscles, the process of pigment-formation would be intensified by Kuhne's injections, and the surplus bile produced might in part pass into the blood again. Orth has a paper (Virch. Arch. vol. 63) on the deposition of bilirubin-crystals in the jaundice of infants. The most various theories have been started from time to time to account for icterus neonatorum. Birch-Hirschfeij> has recently (Virch. Arch. vol. 87) treated the question afresh. He maintains that the benign form of jaundice (i. e. jaundice not depending on septic infection or profound anatomical change in the liver) is the result of oedema of the capsule of Glisson. This oedema arises in consequence of venous engorgement in the region of the remnant of the umbilical vein and vena portae. This explanation seems somewhat far- fetched. May not the jaundice simply depend on an over-great resorption of bile from the meconium ? 70. Pigmentation of the tissues by extraneous substances. Any substance optically distinguishable from a tissue, which be- comes in any way incorporated with it and remains for a time unchanged, may give rise to a special coloration of the tissue. The number of such substances is of course large, and the manner of their incorporation various. The commonest avenues of entrance are surface-wounds, the air-passages, and the alimentary canal. The most familiar instance of wound-staining is tatooing, common among civilised peoples as well as among savages. The way in which the coloured tatoo-marks are produced is this:— the skin is first wounded by scratches or punctures, and then insoluble granular colouring-matters such as charcoal, cinnabar, &c. are well rubbed in. Where the skin is broken the coloured particles penetrate and infiltrate the cutaneous tissues. One part remains where it is, so that the skin continues permanently pigmented: another part is carried off to the lymphatic glands, which also become pigmented. The lungs and their lymphatic glands may become very deeply pigmented by the long-continued inhalation of foreign matters, such as coal-dust, soot, particles of iron or rust, &c. In consequence of prolonged inhalation of coal-dust, for example, the lung-tissue may become perfectly black (miner's lung). Among the pigmentations arising from matters taken up in the alimentary canal, we must mention the so-called argyrism (argyria). This is a staining of the tissues consequent upon long-continued internal use of salts of silver. The skin in such cases may assume an intense brownish grey colour; and the internal organs may also be more or less discoloured. The silver is deposited as fine granules in the ground-substance of the different tissues.