[SECT. VII. PARASITES. 342 about 0-3 mm. long, and has a rostellum with tiny blunt hooklets, four sucking-discs, a water-vascular system, and numerous calcareous granules in its parenchyma. The fore-part of the body is often invaginated within the hind-part. In many cases these echinococcus-cysts remain single. The only change they undergo is that they grow larger as fresh capsules and scolices are formed, so that they at length reach the size of a big orange, or of the closed fist. The surrounding tissues form, by condensation and thickening, a pseudo-cyst round the cuticular membrane. The cavity of the cyst is filled with clear liquid which is not coagulable by heat or acid. The brood-capsules are always seated on the inner surface, unless they are shaken loose mechanically. They appear as small white points lying in the transparent parenchyma. Occasionally the cyst may remain al- together sterile. 246. In many cases 'daughter-cysts' are formed. They de- velope in the thickness of the cuticle independently of the proper parenchymatous layer. Between two lamellae of the cuticle is formed an aggregation of granules which becomes surrounded with a secondary cuticle. This forms the starting-point of a new series of layers. As the layers multiply the inner cavity increases in size and its contents at length become clear and liquid. As the daughter-cyst grows it forces out the wall of the parent cyst like a hernial sac, until it at length gives way and sets the daughter- cyst free. Escaping thus into the tissues round the parent cyst it receives from them an external fibrous envelope, and proceeds to develope brood-capsules in the same way as the primary cyst derived from the six-hooked embryo. An echinococcus which is thus reproduced exogenously is called Echinococcus granulosus or scolecipariens (Kuchenmeister). It is also described as E. veterinorum, as it often occurs in domestic animals. A second compound echinococcus is the E. hydatidosus. It is characterised by the formation of internal daughter-cysts. Naunyn (Dorpat. med. Zeitsch. 1870) asserts, and Leuckart agrees with him, that the scolices and brood-capsules may undergo a cystic transformation, and so become daughter-cysts. Naunyn goes on to say that these endogenous daughter-cysts may migrate from the parent cyst and so produce the E. granulosus; but this Leuckart disputes. The internal daughter-cysts sometimes develope daughters of their own or ' granddaughter-cysts.' Each of the cystic forms of which mention has been made may reach to a very considerable size. 247. The third form, or Echinococcus multilocidaris, only forms small cysts, from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea. They are always present in very large numbers.