193 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. CHAP. XXV.] intermittently. There is no limit to their growth; they often reach enormous dimensions. They may cease to grow at all for years together, and then suddenly begin again. Neoplastic or tumour tissue is very liable to retrogressive changes; this is especially true of quickly-growing cellular tumours. All the retrogressive changes which affect normal tissues are ob- served in tumours—fatty degeneration, mucoid degeneration, ne- crosis, caseation, disintegration, softening, liquefaction, gangrene, infarction, calcification, pigmentation (as in melanoma), &c. In- flammations are also very common in tumours. Any of these processes may lead to partial destruction of a tumour. Cavities or ulcers are often formed in consequence of softening, and the new tissue may thus be disintegrated and destroyed—slowly or rapidly as the case may be. It is unfortu- nate that this process does not usually bring about the removal and eradication of the tumour, especially in the so-called malignant forms. The centre may break down, but the periphery continues steadily to advance. It may even happen that the peripheral advance is accelerated by the inflammatory disintegration of the central parts. It is highly probable that, during the development of a neoplasm, the walls of the blood-vessels are somehow damaged or impaired. In support of this it may be mentioned—that in the neighbourhood of tumours we always find aggregations of small extravasated leucocytes. The manner in which this impairment of the vessel-walls is brought about remains unknown. 140. Most tumours are solitary. In other words there is originally but a single primary tumour. It is less frequent to find two tumours growing in an organ simultaneously, or in quick succession. In the latter case we must suppose that appropriate conditions arise at the same time at the different sites. Now and again it happens that several tumours, all of different structure, appear simultaneously in the same person. From such multiple primary neoplasms we must of course distinguish what are called metastatic formations. Metastasis in this case implies a secondary neoplastic eruption, resulting from the transmission of elements of the original or parent tumour to a remote part of the body, and the development of a daughter- tumour from these germinal elements. The germ or other virus given off by the parent tumour is conveyed to other regions through the lymphatics, or through the blood-vessels. According to the channel of transport, we find metastatic affections in the lymphatic vessels and glands which receive the infected lymph; or in remote organs irrigated by the infected blood, either directly or after passing through the heart. Thus in cancerous disease of the intestine we find secondary nodules developed in the liver, through the medium of the portal system: from the liver some germs may even find their way into the lungs. The germinal elements usually reach the blood m. 13