182 INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. which produces the disease. It is not however impossible that another factor may lie in the aptness of the vessels and especially the arteries to be attacked by the specific inflammation. Wherever granulations are formed or hypei'plasia set up in consequence of syphilitic inflammation, the vessel walls and chiefly the intima are observed to thicken. The lumen is thus narrowed, and often entirely occluded (Fig. 36 b and c and Art. 297). On syphilitic disease of the arteries see Greenfield &c, Trans. Path. Soc. vol. 2S ; Heubner, Die luetische Erkrankxcng der Gehirnarterien Leipzig 1874 ; Lancereaus, Gaz. des Hop. 21, 1876. Leprosy. 131. Leprosy, lepra or elephantiasis graecorum, is a disease distinguished anatomically by the formation of nodes and tubers in the tissues. These when cutaneous are usually seated on the surfaces exposed to the air—the face, hands, and feet. They may at times occur elsewhere. The subcutaneous tissues, nerves, mucous membranes, and viscera may also be affected. The nodes may reach the size of a walnut. When a node is about to form in the skin, there appears first a red spot, which becomes bluish and then brown: the underlying tissue becomes meanwhile thickened and indurated. The swelling then increases, and the patch becomes gradually transformed to a firm red protuberance, which later on becomes softer and paler. The basis of the node is made up of cellular granulation-tissue, lying immediately beneath the epidermis. It is spread in a uniform layer, or sends down cellular processes into the deeper structures. In colour it is greyish-white and somewhat translucent. The cells are of various sizes according to their stage of development. When the nodes break down, leprous ulcers are formed, though these are more commonly the result of external injury. Fatty meta- morphosis of the cells and resolution of the tumour thereby are not unknown, but the process is very slow. The nodes of the mucous membrane are more apt to ulcerate than those of the skin: this occurs, for example, inside the nose, and in the conjunctiva, mouth, and larynx. Leprous growths in the nerve-sheaths may lead to disturbance of the nerve-functions: we may thus have local amyotroph}' and anaesthesia, as in Lepra anaesthetica. Visceral leprosy is rare. Armauer Hansen and Neisser have discovered that leprosy depends on the presence of a specific bacillus (Bacillus leprae) in the affected tissue. The bacillus is found in all leprous foci (Neisser), generally enclosed in the larger cells. The heredi- tariness of leprosy has not been proved. It is but slightly con- tagious ; yet in certain regions it is endemic. It is nowadays rare in Europe : Norway and Sweden, Finland, and the Baltic provinces of Russia, are the regions where it is most prevalent. It occurs