OHAF. XXXI.] HYPHOMYCETES OR MOULDS. 313 prejudice to the plant the alternation may be pretermitted for many successive generations, as is the case with Penicillium. In any case, indeed, the number of asexual generations is much greater than the number of sexual ones. Such an alternation of sexual with asexual generations is not peculiar to the fungi; it occurs in a much more definite manner among higher plants. No peculiar polymorphism is exhibited by the fungi. The idea of polymorphism has arisen from the fact that the asexual mode of reproduction is very common among fungi, while the sporangiophores or conidia-bearing organs assume very various forms. Moreover in all of the fungi there is more than one mode of asexual reproduction. The statement of various authors (like Hallier)—to the effect that fungi possess a special and peculiar habit of polymorphism or ' pleomorphism'—rests mainly on error. They have either failed to cultivate 'purely' the plants studied, or they have been ignorant of the diverse modes in which they may be propagated. The account just given by no means exhausts the various modes of sexual and asexual reproduction among the fungi. We have, for example, said nothing of the formation of oospores. Here a female cell or oosphere developes in an oogonium, and is fructified by a male cell or spermatozoid developed in an anthcridium. From this is bred a plant like the parent plant, or else a multitude of germs which go to produce a new generation. For such details and others we must refer the student to Sachs' Text-booh of Botany, or to Brefeld's papers above cited. All we have here attempted is—to give such an account as would make clear the general modes of growth and reproduc- tion of the mould-fungi, and enable the student to understand the allusions to them that are constantly occurring in articles on the fungous parasites of man. 219. The form and texture of the mycelium and the mode of multiplication depend greatly on the nature of the nutrient substratum. Thus the filaments of Oidium lactis may be short or long, thin or thick, according to the proportion of sugar present and the reaction of the solution. If there is a dearth of nutriment, the formation of conidia is generally favoured. The free access of oxygen is also of import. According to Brefeld sexual reproduction can be induced in Penicillium if the access of air and light is prevented after the mycelium is formed. If spores of Mucor be sown in a saccharine liquid with access of air, the mycelium developed on the surface is made up of branched non-septate hyphae, and the liquid absorbs oxygen (Reess, Botan. Untersuch. ilber Alkoholgahrungspilze 1870; and Fitz, Ber. d. deutsch. chem. Gesell. Berlin 1873). If the mycelium be immersed, or oxygen withdrawn, the hyphae develope septa and break up into longer and shorter segments; these then multiply by budding like the yeast-plant, and form a kind of large-celled yeasty scum. This yeast has the power of decomposing sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid, but the fermentation ceases when a small proportion of alcohol is formed. The same is true of Mucor racemosus, but not of Penicillium glaucum .