[SECT. L MALFORMATIONS. 24 We are compelled to accept the hypothesis that a duplication of some part or parts of the blastodermic vesicle or embryonic area can take place, if we are to account for the genesis of double monsters. The only question is—how far it is possible for a duplication which has already taken place to disappear again, owing to subsequent fusion. For example, it may be asked—whether from two originally distinct embryonic areas nothing but separate homologous twins can ever develope; or whether the twin rudiments can unite again at some later stage. This question cannot as yet be definitely answered, so far at least as concerns embryos of the age at which the blastodermic layers have become completely differentiated. On the other hand, it may readily be believed that two embryonic areas which are actually in process of formation may encroach on each other and so unite. Here we have to do not with a fusion of two formed and separate structures, but merely with a grouping or arrangement of cells (due to identical processes) taking place round two centres close to each other, instead of round a single one. It is perhaps best, in dealing with the genesis of the double malforma- tions, to avoid assuming the occurrence of secondary fusion or re- union of primarily distinct rudiments; and to refer them all to incomplete cleavage or duplication. The ultimate causes of such cleavage are unknown to us: it is likely that they are partly in- ternal and partly external. The views of different authors on this subject (the genesis of double monstrosities) are very various. Some, like Foerster, Virchow, Oellacher, Ahlfeld, and Gerlach, pronounce for the theory of cleavage. Others, such as Schultze, Panum, and Marchand, think that rudiments already more or less completely distinct may reunite. According to Rauber, two or more primitive streaks may be formed on a single embryonic area ; and these may meet at some point in their length and there fuse together. This is the 'Radial' theory. Marchand maintains that two rudimentary embryos are formed, and then unite. The duplication of the embryo is, he thinks, referable to causes anterior to the segmentation, inherent therefore in the ovum before impregnation, or involved in the process of impregnation itself. In support of this hypothesis he adduces some recent observations on invertebrates, which make it probable that the admission of two spermatozoa to the ovum may lead to the formation of two centres of segmentation. In other cases it is said that two blastodermic vesicles may be formed, and give rise to a double monstrosity. L. Gerlach lately attempted to produce double monsters experimentally. He varnished over a number of hen's eggs before incubation, leaving nothing uncovered but a Y-shaped space over the region of the primitive streak. Out of a number of trials he obtained on one occasion a duplicitas anterior (Art. 14), in addition to various other malformations. He infers that in chicks at least it is possible to produce double monstrosities by artificial means. See Foerster, Die Missbildungen des Menschen Jena 1865 ; Panum, Unter- suchungen iiber Entstehung der Missbildungen Berlin 1860 and Virc/i. Arch. vol. 72; Donitz Reicherrs Archiv fur Anat. u. Physiol. 1866; Dittmer, Reicherts Archiv 1875; Ahlfeld, Archiv fiir Gyniikol. vol. 9 and Die Missbildungen des Menschen Leipzig 1880; Rauber, Virch. Arch. vol. 71; Marchand, Realencycloptidie der gesammten Heilkunde, Art. Missbildungen; L. Gerlach, Sitzungsberichte d. phys. med. Soc. zu Erlangen 1880 ; Cleland, Joum. of Anat. 1874.