70 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. 111. is no coagulation. The reason of this probably is—that brain- substance contains but few coagulable matters, and on the other hand that the effused lymph, not being the result of acute inflam- mation, contains but little fibrinogen or fibrinoplastin. The same thing is at times to be observed in other tissues, as for instance in so-called ' softening of the heart/ when the muscle-substance has already undergone fatty degeneration. Here the antecedent de- generation has notably diminished the amount of coagulable matter in the muscular tissue. But colliquation of the tissues may follow upon coagulation as well as precede it. It is a very frequent occurrence for coagulated exudations (as in croupous pneumonia) or thrombi to break down and liquefy. This liquefaction of coagulated masses is always accompanied by certain chemical changes, the efficient causes of which are frequently of the nature of organised ferments (Art. 42). d. Dry Gangrene or Mummification. 41. Dry gangrene is commonly the result of necrosis in parts which are exposed to the air. Tyjrical examples are afforded by the so-called senile gangrene of the extremities, especially of the toes and feet; and likewise by the necroses of the same parts following upon frost-bite. In the first case, the necrosis is determined by defective blood-supply, partly owing to general feebleness of the circulation, and partly to local changes in the blood-vessels. The affected part is generally engorged with blood when necrosis sets in, and thus exhibits a dark or livid coloration. The engorgement is due to stagnation of the blood-current from mere feebleness of propulsion. After the death of the part, the colouring- matter of the blood transudes and gives the tissues their dark-red appearance. At the same time the tissues begin to dry up by evaporation. This drying process is notably accelerated when the epidermis separates, as happens when the engorgement has been extreme, and in frost-bite. The part becomes first leathery, and then perfectly hard, brittle, and black. Under the microscope the tissue-elements are seen to be shrunken and withered. Dry gangrene or withering is a physiological process as it affects the stump of the umbilical cord in infants. Between the sound tissue and the gangrenous there is formed an inflammatory line of demarcation (Art. 115). Dry gangrene may at times occur as a later stage of moist gangrene. e. Moist Gangrene or Sphacelus. 42. Moist gangrene is necrosis followed by decomposition and putrefaction of the necrosed tissue. If septic organisms reach a dead tissue which is rich in blood or other liquid, it very soon begins to decompose. The organisms may reach the part either