255 CHAP. XXVIII.] AETIOLOGY OF TUMOURS. But if we extend the meaning of the term embryonic so as to include all this, where are we to stop ? Growth, i. e. restoration and replacement of what is being used up, continues throughout life. Surface epithelium is cast off and is regenerated; glandular epithelium is used up and replaced; even bone, though it seems so stationary, is exposed to changes at all stages of life—it is being resorbed by the osteoclasts and built up again by the osteoblasts. If all post-embryonic processes of growth are to be styled embry- onic, we cannot refuse to give the same title to all the processes of new cell-formation that occur during life. If this be granted, em- bryonic tissue becomes exactly the same as that which Virchow called proliferous tissue, i.e. tissue capable of proliferation. We gain nothing by the mere substitution of one name for another: in the present case we lose something, for we are no longer able to distinguish in expression between embryonic and post-embryonic formation. For this reason it is better to confine the term em- bryonic to tissues which actually originate in the embryonic period. The fact that we really know nothing of the persistence of true embryonic tissue—or in other words, that it has not been histologically demonstrated— is acknowledged by Cohnheim. He seeks to explain the fact by supposing that the embryonic foci are very small and hard to distinguish; or even that the germinal cells may be mingled with the normal elements and so not distinguishable at all. It is not easy to imagine how embryonic cellular germs can possibly remain unchanged in the midst of mature tissue. Cohn- heim and Maas (Virch. Arch. vol. 70) have shown that living tissue, such as periosteum, when introduced into another tissue like the lung, may continue to grow for a time; but afterwards it is absorbed and destroyed by the tissue in which it lies. An embryonic germ seems to have but three courses open to it. It may remain embryonic: hi this case it is as it were alien to the tissue in which it lies, and will be absorbed like an organic foreign substance. It may assimilate itself physiologically as well as anatomically with the surrounding tissue, taking part in its physiological function and working with it: in this case it loses its embryonic character. Or thirdly, it may develope into an independent formation, interpolated as it were into the general system: in this case it forms what we call a congenital tumour (naevus, adenoma, sarcoma). Hasse has attempted to give Cohnheim's hypothesis a morphological basis {Die Beziehungen der Morphologic zur Heilkunde Leipzig 1880). The morphologist distinguishes two kinds of substances within the organism: one kind undergoes a series of transformations, the other provides for the formation of new tissue. The latter he describes as 'embryonic substance'. It is represented by cells which have undergone little or no transformation, and are the more apt to multiply the less their original character and structure has been modified—the nearer they stand to the formative cells of the embryo. From these cells only can new tissue be formed. Tumours are especially likely to be developed at spots where these 'embryonic cells' are abundant and unmodified. Hasse's distinction between proliferous and non-proliferous tissue-elements is perfectly just (Arts. 84—89): and anyone may if he chooses call the former embryonic (as do French writers especially). I n this case however the antithesis, on which Cohnheim lays so much stress, between the cells of the embryo and the proliferous elements of the organism after birth, simply ceases to exist.