CHAP. IX.] SIMPLE ATROPHY AND PIGMENTARY DEGENERATION. 73 and cell-decay is maintained with but slight oscillations to one side or the other. In old age this equilibrium is disturbed, and decay has the upper hand. An involution (the reverse of evolution) of the entire organism and of its parts takes place. Thus a man ultimately dies, even when there is no question of disease, so soon as the advancing involution of his vital organs reaches a stage at which they can no longer efficiently perform their functions. But besides this general retrogression, or senile decay, there is a physiological retrogression of particular organs, which takes place much earlier in life. The generative organs in woman lose their functional power long before extreme old age. The thymus gland has undergone complete degeneration by the age of adolescence. Various tissues, like the hyaline cartilage which is the first rudiment of bone, are in their very nature temporary structures. The several tissues then, like the organism itself, inherit but a measured lease of life. Considered anatomically, retrogression shows itself in an organ by diminution of its size: microscopically, by diminution and ultimate disappearance of its constituent elements, especially of the elements which are special to it. 45. An organ, towards the close of its life, undergoes what we have called a physiological retrogression. But analogous retrogres- sive processes may occur, as it were prematurely, under pathological conditions. Their result we describe as simple atrophy. . This pathological atrophy is distinguished, like the other, by shrinking of the organ affected, or by diminution in size and number of its essential elements. In the case of dense parenchymatous organs like the liver, kidney, heart, or brain, the shrinking is the first thing which is likely to strike us. If the shrinking has been uniform the surface remains smooth: if it has been irregular the surface looks uneven and granular, and the external form of the organ may be altered. On the other hand, atrophy of bone shows itself rather by thinning of the trabeculae and widening of the medullary cavities, than by any general diminution in size. So too in the lungs, we recognise the occurrence of atrophy by the increased size of the air-spaces, and the loss in part of the alveolar septa. Compared with the shrinking and loss of substance, the pig- mentary change so often associated with atrophy is of minor importance. It is a secondary, non-essential phenomenon in the process. It depends either on the fact that the normal pigmenta- tion of the tissue becomes more pronounced as the essential elements disappear; or on an actual deposition of pigment associ- ated with the atrophic process; or lastly on some alteration in the amount of blood contained in the tissue. 46. The shrinking of an atrophied organ is due to the fact