74 RETROGRESSIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. III. that its elements dwindle and disappear. Here, as in the case of senile involution, it is the proper and specific elements of the organ which suffer the most; and the supporting framework of connective tissue the least. It is in fact very frequently observed that the connective structures remain perfectly intact or even increase and grow, while the specific elements have already dis- appeared. Thus in the illustration (Fig. 5) of a muscle undergoing atrophy, the contractile substance (a) contained within the sarco- lemma has distinctly dwindled (b). But the connective tissue separating the fibrillae remains undiminished; the nuclei of its cells seem even to have multiplied. Fig. 5. Section or an atrophied muscle. (From a case of progressive muscular atrophy: Bismark-brown staining: x 300) a normal muscle-fibre b atrophied muscle-fibre c perimysium internum, in which the nuclei as at c-, are seen to be increased in number Similar appearances are readily observed in atrophied liver- tissue. There every one of the gland-cells may have vanished, and yet there may be no diminution in the amount of the connective- tissue framework. So too in preparations of brain and spinal cord, the ganglion cells may have altogether disappeared, without any visible change in the neuroglia. Adipose tissue is peculiar in its mode of atrophy. The fat in the cells breaks up into small oil-globules which are absorbed : the empty cells return to their first condition of ordinary connective-tissue cells. At times the disappearance of the contained fat is followed by proliferation of the nuclei (atrophic proliferation). If serum transude into the tissue after the fat has gone, the tissue becomes gelatinous in appearance (serous atrophy). If lastly pigment be deposited in the atrophied fat-cells, the tissue becomes yellow or yellowish-brown (pigmentary atrophy). See Flemming, Archiv f. mikroskop. Anatomie vn, and Virch. Arch. vol. 52. 47. Atrophy may result from various causes. It has already been indicated (Art. 44) that the tissues may themselves possess inherent properties which determine their retrogression and decay. The efficient cause of this form of atrophy (described as active atrophy) is that the cells are no longer able to assimilate properly the nutriment brought to them. Atrophy like this, depending on internal conditions, seldom occurs as a pathological process. Only