FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. 124 cells. The form of the fibroblasts is extremely variable. In the earlier stages they are rounded, later on they become club-shaped, spindle-shaped, star-shaped: in short they assume every possible shape and form. When they have accumulated in any spot and begin to address themselves to the formation of tissue, they become connected with each other by means of their processes and projections; or they arrange themselves in a compact mass.of densely-packed multi- form cells. The intercellular substance which gives the fibrous tissues their characteristic texture is derived from the cell-protoplasm. The ends and lateral borders of the cells become fibrillated; or the boundaries between the cells disappearing a homogeneous mass of protoplasm is formed, and in this fibrils are afterwards developed. A great many of the formative cells are used up in this way: some however retain their nucleus and a part of their protoplasm, and form the fixed connective-tissue corpuscles of the new tissue. (Cf. Art. 108.) According to the greater or less compactness with which the formative cells are deposited and grouped, the new tissue is firm and dense, or loose and reticular. Fibrous tissue, rather than areolar, is that most commonly developed, especially as a conse- quence of inflammation. It may become hyperplastic, either by itself, or accompanied by hyperplasia of contiguous tissues such as the epithelia. In respect of the diffusion or extension of the hyper- plastic process it is of some importance to distinguish between diffuse or indefinite hyperplasia, and that which is limited to definite areas: the latter leads to tissue-formations which resemble tumours. (See under Tumours, Sect. VII.) Adipose tissue is formed from normal or pathologically developed connective tissue, or from mucous tissue, by the deposi- tion of fat in the interior of the cells. Mucous tissue, characterised by the mucous consistence of its ground-substance, is generally derived from an existing tissue by metaplasia (Art. 90): it may also be formed from new proliferating cells. Neuroglia is developed by the multiplication of the neuroglia- cells. The structure and development of the connective tissues, both normal and pathological, have been the subject of many researches. The origin of the ground-substance has given rise to controversy. Some consider it to arise outside the cells, others from within them. A third theory again, while admitting its external origin, supposes that the fibrils are produced in it by the formative power of the cell as if they were a kind of plastic secretion. The view of the text only applies to the formation of fibrous tissue from new- formed embryonic or indifferent tissue. It does not apply, for example, to the formation of fibrous tissue by metamorphosis of the basis-substance of a different tissue, such as bone (see under Metaplasia Arts. 90—92). For further details the reader is referred to the following :—Virchow (Virch. Arch. vol. 13), Neumann {Arckfiir Heilk. 1869), Aufrecht ( Wiener med. Wochenschr.