MALFORMATIONS. [SECT. L 22 Geoffroy St Hilaire {Histoire ge'ne'ralc et particulikre des anomalies de Vorganisation chez I'homme et les animaux Paris 1832—7) rejects altogether the doctrine of the primary perversion of the embryo (Haller and Winslow) and refers the malformations by arrest entirely to mechanical influences. Panum {Untersuchungen iiber die Entstehung der Missbildungen Berlin 1860) on the whole agrees with him, although he grants the possibility of a primary perversion. He produced malformations in embryo chicks by varying the temperature of the incubator, and by varnishing the egg-shells. Dareste (Recherches sur la production artificielle des monstruosite's Paris 1877) made like experiments, and produced malformations by arrest by placing the eggs vertically, varnishing the shells, raising tbe temperature above 45° C, and by warming the eggs in an irregular manner. He has lately (Comp. Rend. 1882) shown that abnormalities may be produced by prolonging the interval between the laying and the incubation of the egg. On the significance of adhesions of the amnion to the foetus see Jensen, Virch. Arch. vol. 42 ; Fuerst, Arch, fur Gyniikologie 1871 ; Perls, Allg. Pathol.; Dareste, Comptes Rend. 1882. If a malformation is to be produced, the original injury must of course not be too grave, otherwise the embryo would die outright. Above all things it is necessary that the apparatus of circulation should be maintained in working order. If the embryo dies, it is either expelled with its membranes from the uterus ; or it is absorbed, in which case the membranes undergo further changes before they are finally expelled. A malformed foetus then can never sink below a certain minimum of development without perishing prematurely ; unless indeed it manages to prolong its existence by attaching itself as a kind of parasite to a second simultaneously developing foetus. Compare Art. 13. 4. The malformations of single individuals, which we with Foerster have distinguished as monstra per fabricam alienam or monstrosities by perversion, consist exclusively of abnormalities in the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. To this class belongs the Situs transversus or right-and-left reversal of the position of the thoracic or abdominal viscera, or both. In this case we usually find, in addition to the change of position, other changes in the forms and relations of the misplaced organs. Here also we include the various malformations (mostly by defect) of the heart and great vessels. Lastly, we must mention the numerous mal- formations of the genital apparatus, especially those distinguished as true and false hermaphroditism. The genesis of these malformations is in general to be referred to the factors cited in Art. 3. They are for the most part to be reckoned among the malformations by arrest. For further details on this subject see the chapters relating thereto in the Special Pathological Anatomy. 5. Double monstrosities, monstra duplicia, have the entire body, or a part of it, duplicated. The duplicated parts are some- times equally well developed, sometimes unequally. In the latter case one part is stunted, and appears as a parasitic appendage to a well-formed individual. We thus distinguish between equal and unequal double monstrosities. Older theories had it that double monsters arose through the adhesion of two originally distinct ova (MECKEL, Gurlt, G. St. Hilaire). It was even assumed that the membranes of two