34 MALFORMATIONS. [SECT. I. •pagus, or Syncephalus. If a face be formed on the posterior aspect of the head as well as on the anterior, the monster is described as Janus-headed or Janiceps. Generally one of the faces is a mere rudiment (Janiceps asymmetros). The liver of the right-hand twin is usually ' perverted' in position; more rarely this is the case with the other viscera also. Thoracopagi are the commonest kind of double monsters. (3) Craniopagus is a pair of twins whose heads are adherent. They are distinguished as frontal, parietal, or occipital according to the locality of the adhesion. They are rare. (4) Ischiopagus is a monstrosity in which the twins are united only at the pelvis. The sj)inal column and pelvis is dupli- cated, but the latter forms but a single wide girdle of bone, in which the two sacra are at opposite sides. This double pelvis carries two or four limbs. The trunks arise distinct and bent away from each other. In preparing this systematic survey of the double monstrosities use has been made chiefly of Ahlfeld's work, Die Missbildungen des Menschen Leipzig 1880, and of the chapter in Perls's Allgemeine Pathologie. Both treatises give references to the literature of the subject. The genesis of all these double forms seems most easily explained by supposing that two embryonic areas are formed on the surface of a single blastodermic vesicle, and that these as they grow come into contact and coalesce at some part or other of their periphery. 13. Forms in which the development of the segments is unequal. These forms fall into two groups. In the first, the nutrition of one twin is somehow cut off, and it dies without alteration of its external form. In the second group, the nutriment of one twin is derived from the other. As a result the form of the first or parasitic twin is more or less affected. The parasite may be more or less intimately incorporated with the 'autosite' or host, as the foetus is termed which finds nutriment both for itself and its neighbour. Or, again, the parasite may be connected ouly with the placenta of the autosite. The following varieties have been distinguished. (1) Foetus papyraceus. If the umbilical vessels at their attachment to the common placenta come too close to each other, arterial anastomoses are formed between them; the blood-current in one system may become more powerful than in the other, and thus the main stream is diverted towards the more powerful. The circulation in one of the foetuses is checked, and that foetus sooner or later perishes. The secretion of its liquor amnii ceases at the same time. The dead foetus becomes more and more compressed by the growing one, and may ultimately become reduced to a thin flattened remnant. In other cases, the death of one of the foetuses is determined by haemorrhage into the villi of the chorion, or by torsion, knotting, or compression of the umbilical cord.