328 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. Leuckart, op. cit. ; Grassi and Parona, Annali univ. dimed. 1878 ; Bozzolo and Pagliani, Giorn. d. Soc. ital. cV igiene n, Milan 1880; Sonderegger, Corresp. f. schweiz. Aerate 1880; Bugnion, Anchy- lostome duodenal et ane'mie du St.-Gothard, Rev. me'd. de la Suisse rom. r, 1881 ; Perroncito, Arch, p. I. scien. vied, v, Turin 1881 ; Long, Trans. Int. Med. Congress i, 1881; Mi5gnin, Soc. de Biologic March 1882; Cobbold, Human Parasites 1882, Art. Sclerostomy, Quain's Diet, of Med. 1882. Among the rarer nematoid parasites are the following. Eustrongyhis gigas or palisade-worm ; the female attains a length of 1 metre, the male of 35 cm.; the colour is blood-red. It has been found a few times in the pelvis of the human kidney ; but it is commoner in the seal, marten, wolf, and dog. The immature worms dwell chiefly in fresh- water fishes. Strongylus longevaginatus (bronchi- alis), a thread-like worm 26 mm. long. It has once been found in the lung of a boy. Anguillida (Bhabditis) stercoralis, a minute round-worm 1 mm. long, indigenous in Cochin-China. It infests the entire alimentary tract, bile-ducts, and pancreatic duct, and gives rise to chronic diarrhoea. Per- roncito (loc. cit. and Micr. Soc. Journ. 1882) found it in the tunnel-workmen at St. Gothard. See Perls, Allg. Path. II; Davaine, Traite" des Entozoaires 1877 ; Liebermann, Dysenterie chro- nique de Cochin-chine, Gaz. des Hop. 1877 ; Nor- mand, Arch, de Me'd. Navale, 1877. 232. Trichina spiralis, or flesh-worm of pork, appears in two forms according as it inhabits the intestine or the muscles. The intestinal form (Fig. 95) is the sexually mature worm. It is a minute filiform creature, scarcely visible with the naked eye, and white in colour. The female (^4) is 3 mm. long; the male is considerably smaller. In both sexes the hinder part of the body is straight: the male (B) has on the dorsal side of its tail two mammillary pro- tuberances which are turned toward the ven- tral aspect and include between them four wart-like nodules. There is no spiculum: in copulation the muscular cloaca is everted and protruded. The alimentary canal begins with a muscular pharynx which widens as it passes into the oesophagus. This latter is sur- rounded throughout its length with a series of large cellular masses. The stomach passes without notable change of structure into the intestine. In the male this terminates, B. Fig. 95. Mature trichinae. {From LEUCKART: magnified) A female B male