INFLAMMATION AND INFLAMMATORY GROWTHS. [SECT. V. 164 filaments arranged in a network, and sometimes vessels also. The latter are never new-formed : they existed before the tubercle was developed, and lie within the tubercle only because the tubercle has grown around them. The nodules occur either singly or in numbers; or they may be grouped in confluent masses. In the latter case, the internodular tissue does not remain unchanged : it seems made up of imperfect granulation-tissue, or inflammatory fibrous hyperplasia takes place. The appearance is then rather that of a mass of compact uniformly diseased tissue, than of normal tissue containing nodular deposits. When the nodule becomes older, the centre of it is invariably found to be caseated. It is then yellowish-white and opaque. Under the microscope it appears as a granular friable mass, while the periphery still shows its cellular constitution. The aggregations of cells may stretch out in various directions through the tissue, as if the nodule threw out pseudopodia. The nodular groups undergo caseation like the single nodules. The internodular granulation-tissue also becomes cheesy, so that at length large and continuous caseous patches are formed. It is much rarer to find the nodules undergoing fibrous transformation. Caseation is characteristic of the later stages of the tuberculous nodule. The term tubercle (tuberculurn) was formerly applied to all varieties of nodu- lar growth. Baillie (1794) and Bayle (1810) were the first to direct attention to the grey miliary nodules which we now call tubercles. Bayle however applied the term to other growths in the lung. Laennec applied it mainly to the cheesy masses found in phthisical lungs. Larger caseous foci and caseous lobular infiltrations were also described as tuberculous. The caseous nodes and masses were simply 'tubercles,' the diffused infiltration was ' tuberculous infiltration,' the grey nodules (or true granulative tubercles) were ' miliary tubercles.' Cheesy change was thus made the main characteristic of tuberculosis ; caseation was spoken of as ' tuberculisation.' In opposition to tbis view, Virchow maintained that caseous masses might arise in many different ways, and hence had very various significance in different cases. He laid it down that the anatomical basis of tuberculosis is the cellular tubercle (Virchow, loc. cit.; Waldenburg, Die Tuberculose Berlin 1869; Grancher, L'Union med. 1881). 119. We may define a tubercle, then, as a non-vascular cellular nodule, which does not grow beyond a certain size, and at a certain stage of its development becomes caseous. This definition includes all that we can say, in general terms, of tubercle from the histological point of view. The histological researches of the last fifteen years (by Langhans, Schuppel, Koster, Rindfleisch, Cohnheim, Ziegler, Klein, Sanderson and others) have added only this—that the tubercle possesses in many cases a special structure, and that certain cell-forms frequently occur in it and give it a characteristic ajypearance. The central part of the tubercle usually contains giant-cells (Fig. 29 a). These possess numerous nuclei, which are not uncommonly arranged round the periphery, or gathered together at one pole of the cell. The uninuclear cells