278 PARASITES. [SECT. VII. any can penetrate into the deeper tissues through the uninjured skin. Those which settle on the mucous membranes are certainly for the most part not absorbed, but are thrown off after a longer or shorter time. This is however not always the case. Experience shows that, in special circumstances, bacterial invasion of the system may actually start from the mucous membrane. What is the exception in the case of mucous membranes is the rule in the case of matters inhaled into the lungs. Experiment shows that fine corpuscular or particulate matters are very quickly taken up by the lymphatic capillaries of the lungs, and are so carried into the lymphatic glands, or it may be into the blood. Wounded surfaces are in like manner quick to absorb such corpus- cular bodies. Kesuming what we have said, we may put it generally that bacteria of various forms may reach not only the surfaces of the body which are directly accessible from without, but also at times the deeper structures, if circumstances favour their penetration. The question whether bacteria occur in the healthy body seems easily answered from such general considerations, though it is one which has been much disputed. Bacteria are perpetually entering the body with the food we eat and the air we breathe. They must therefore be at times found in the tissues, especially in places whei'e access is direct. The fact that they are not easy to demonstrate is readily explained. It must be only a small number that can multiply in the tissues they have penetrated; the majority must quickly perish. See Nencki, Journ. f. prakt. Chemie 1879; Weissgerber and Perls, Arch. f. exp. Path, vi; Rosenbach, Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Chir. xm ; Ledbe, Zeitsch. f. klin. Med. in ; Sternberg, Stud. Biol. Lab. Baltimore 1881 ; Lister, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1875. Leube, Lister, Roberts, and others have been unable to find living bacteria in healthy urine. This would indicate that the greater part of the bacteria which penetrate into the body are destroyed. 195. If the bacteria were inert corpuscular elements incapable of multiplication, we should have little more to say concerning their significance to the human organism. We should merely have to point out that they are in part taken into the body at certain points, are carried about hither or thither within it, are deposited here or there as innocuous substances, and sooner or later are destroyed or cast out again through the liver, kidney, or other secreting organ. As a fact this is what really happens with regard to some of the bacteria. Even when they pass through the bronchial glands from the lungs into the blood, they have no more significance than any other like minute foreign matters, such as occasionally circulate in the blood without causing disturbance. These are simply deposited and destroyed, or excreted. Thus the Micrococcus luteus may be introduced in considerable quantity beneath the skin of a rabbit, without inducing any serious affection either of the tissue or of the system generally. The bacteria which are thus innocuous may easily be indicated from previous considera- tions. They are such as cannot find within the human body the conditions favourable to their development.