MALFORMATIONS. 38 [sect. r. urinary and sexual organs may be either single or double. The equal form of this monstrosity is somewhat uncommon: the twins are capable of living. The unequal form is more common, if we may regard as pygopagi some of the monsters described above (Art. 13) as epipygi and sacral teratomata. A pair of living pygopagous twins, born in South Carolina in 1851, has been exhibited as " the two-headed nightingale." An anatomical description will be found in the Brit. Med. Journal 1869, by Simpson, and in the Berl. klin. Woch. 1873, by Virchow. The cavities of the pelves were completely distinct, the sacral region alone being common. 15. Duplicitas posterior. A monster in which the j>elvis and lumbar portion of the spinal column are duplicated is described as Dipygus. The duplicated parts are very seldom equally devel- oped; much more commonly one remains rudimentary {Dipygus parasiticus). In the slighter cases of this malformation, only individual parts of the pelvic bones or contents are duplicated. The lower extremities are duplicated, or there are but three of them {Polymelia). If the rudimentary pelvis is not visible externally, the supernumerary limb looks as if it sprang from a normal pelvis. It is usually very ill developed. 7. Multiple cleavage, and overgrowth of the entire bod}'-. 16. Homologous triplets are produced when the rudimental embryo has undergone a complete threefold cleavage, and its subse- quent development has been unchecked. They lie inside a single chorion, and the amnion may also be single; though cases occur where each foetus has its own amnion. Frequently one or two of the triplets are malformed {Acardiacus). In consequence of a second partial cleavage in an embryo already conrpletely divided, there may be formed a double monster together with a single ordinary foetus—the whole being enclosed in a single chorion. This combination is not infrequent. Tricephali, or three-headed monsters, arise from a second partial cleavage of an embryo already partially cleft: they are extremely rare. Of multiple cleavage occurring , at both extremities of the embryo only a single instance is on record. If the rudimentary embryo is of abnormal size, and undergoes no form of cleavage, the entire body becomes excessively developed. New-born infants weighing as much as ten kilogrammes (twenty- two pounds) have been met with. In other instances, the abnormally rapid or excessive growth has not begun until after birth. b. Cleavage affecting the rudiments of particular parts: congenital hypertrophy. 17. Cleavages affecting the rudiments of separate organs, and the multiplication of these organs or their elements which ensues,