FATTY DEGENERATION. CHAP. XL] 83 54. When fat is present in considerable quantity it happens not infrequently that crystalline products separate out from it. The so-called ' fat-crystals' appear as feathery needles, grouped together in tufted bunches (Fig. 10 b). They are often described as needles of margaric acid. Whether they really contain mar- garic acid is doubtful. It is known that equal parts of palmitic and stearic acid would give a mixture having the same composition as is ascribed to margaric acid: and further that palmitic, stearic, and oleic acids in combination with glycerin (as tripalmitin, tristearin, and triolein) form the chief components of ordinary animal fat. It is therefore doubtful whether margaric acid, or trimargarin really exists as a distinct component of animal fat at all. These fat-crystals may form in fatty products of disintegra- tion as well as in normal fat-cells. In the latter case they are only produced post mortem. Fig. 10. Fat-ceystals. (x300) a cholesterin-tablets b free tuft of margarin-needles c tuft inclosed in fat-cells d feathery needles of ' margaric acid' or margarin In masses of fatty detritus it is very common to find what is called cholesterin (properly cholestearin). This forms thin trans- parent rhombic tablets (Fig. 10 a), often notched at the angles. If these tablets are present in quantity, they may often be recognised by their lustre with the naked eye alone. They are soluble in hot alcohol, ether, and chloroform, in oils, and in the sodium com- pounds of the two bile-acids (glycocholic and taurocholic). Treated with sulphuric acid the crystals become purplish red, rusty, or violet, at their edges. The same coloration appears still better on treatment with iodine. Nothing is known of the mode in which cholesterin is formed. It is said to exist as a normal constituent in the brain (Gamgee). Schulze and Barbieri (Journ. f. praht. Chem. 25, 1882) regard cholesterin as an intermediate product of vegetable metabolism and a constant component of vegetable cells. Cholesterins of various composition are known, so that the term seems to indicate rather a chemical genus than a definite substance. 6—2