CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOIflYCETES OH BACTERIA. 295 (6) Endocarditis. In many forms of endocarditis the affected patches are covered with an abundant layer of micrococci. These are also found in metastatic patches if there be any. It is very probable that endocarditis may be set up by various causes, and as it would seem by various forms of micrococcus (Art. 282). References:—R. Maier, Virch. Arch. vol. 62; Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 57; Klebs, Arch. f. exp. Path, x; Roster, Virch. Arch. vol. 72; Koch, Mitth. a. d. k. Gesundh. Berlin 1882. (7) Variola and vaccinia. In both affections micrococci have been found in the vesicles. As to their real significance nothing certain is known. References:—Keber, Virch. Arch. vol. 42; Zulzer, Burl. Mm. Woch. 51, 1872 ; Weigert, Anat. Beitr. z. Lchre v. d. Pocken 1874; Klebs, Arch.f. exp. Path. X. (8) Haemophilia neonatorum, Klebs {Arch. f. exp. Path, iv.) and Eppixger (Beitr'dge zur path. Anat. v. Klebs 1878) have described a micrococcus in this disease, and have given it the name of Monas haemorrhagicum. (9) Acute yellow atrophy of the liver. Klebs, Waldeyer, and Eppixger (Prag. Viertetf. 1875) have published papers on the micrococcus found in this disease. (10) Croupous pneumonia. Klebs (Arch. f. exp. Path, iv), Koch (Mitth. a. cl. k. Gesundh. Berlin 1881), and Friedlaxder (Virch. Arch. vol. 87) have seen micrococci in cases of this disease. (11) Acute catarrhal pneumonia. Micrococci are very often found in the alveoli and lung-tissue. They probably reach the lungs with other bacteria from the mouth-cavity (pneu- monia by aspiration). (12) Sarcina. The fungus so called occurs chiefly in the stomach, lungs, pharynx, and urine. In the lungs it has been found by Nauwerck in various pneumonic affections (Corresp. f. schweiz. Aerzte 1881). It is much smaller than the sarcina of the stomach. Nothing is known of its significance. We may here refer to a disease of silkworms, which throws light on the development of bacteria within the body. It is called pebrine, gattine, or 'spotted disease'. It formerly produced enormous destruction among the silk- worms in silk-producing districts. Investigations made in 1853—56 showed that it was associated with the presence of a micrococcus. Nageli called the fungus Nosema bombycis. Pasteur proved experimentally that these organ- isms produced the disease, and also showed by what means it could be averted. The micrococcus is transmitted to the eggs : the moths are therefore isolated and after laying their eggs are microscopically examined. If the moths are found to be dissased the eggs are destroyed. Another disease of the silkworm, maladie de morts-blancs, which annually causes great losses to silk-growers, is very probably a bacterial affection. Toussaixt and Pastehr have shown (Comptes Ilendus nos. 6, 17, 18, 1880) that fowl-cholera is caused by an invasion of micrococci. The organism can be cultivated in alkalised chicken-broth, which has previously been sterilised by being raised to a temperature of 110° to 115° C. 205. The two representatives of the class of Micrubacteria, namely Bacterium termo and Bacterium lineola, can only develope in dead tissues and liquids. B. termo is frequently found in the