TUMOURS. 230 [SECT. VI. distended with secretion, and form larger or smaller cysts. Other glands may enlarge by increase of their stroma; and lastly there may be in some an active growth and increase of the specific gland-tissue. It is easy to demonstrate that such new-formations of fibrous and glandular tissue do take place. The most suitable ob- jects for examination are per- haps the papillary or villous growths which form on the inner surface of glands undergoing cystic degeneration (Fig. 59 c). These are sometimes so abun- dant that the cyst seems quite filled up with the new tissue. Such an overgrowth of the mucous membrane, in which the local glands are simultaneously enlarged, is best described as a glandular hyperplasia. Fig. 59. Papillaey growths inside A CYST. (From a gastric polypus: haematoxylin staining: x 300) 7 gland-tubules with cylindrical epi- thelium b stroma infiltrated with cells ?. papillary growths into a cyst, covered with mucoid epithelium 168. True adenoma is generally distinguishable from glandular hyperplasia by obvious characteristics. Its consistence, colour, and structure all mark it off plainly from the surrounding tissue. Adenomata are usually knot-like growths arising within the substance of glands, or in glandular epithelial or epidermic tissues. In the first case it is generally a part only of the gland that is transformed into tumour-tissue. In the mucous membranes and skin the tumour is likewise circumscribed. When an entire organ like the ovary is included in the growth, it is easy to make out by the alteration in the structure that it is an adenoma, and not the result of simple hypertrophy. Adenomata are often pale soft and marrowy: in other cases they are dense and coarse. Microscopic examination will obviate any doubt, which mere inspection may leave, as to the nature of a questionable adenoma. The structure of the neoplasm is always different from that of the affected tissue. It always corresponds with the type of some normal tissue; but this is not the type of the matrix in which it lies. Adenoma of the intestine may be made up of ramified and convoluted tubules—not of Lieberkiihnian crypts. Adenoma of the liver may be made up of tubular glands instead of lobules. Ade- noma of the mamma is at once distinguished from the normal gland-tissue by the mode in which the epithelial cells are repro- duced and arranged, and by the structure of the neoplastic acini. The difference between normal and neoplastic gland-tissue is perhaps most marked of all in the case of the ovary. Ovarian