287 CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. the last year or two have however enabled us to form some picture at least of the way in which bacteria affect the several tissues and the system in general. The pathogenous bacteria are parasites which draw their nourishment from man's body. They withdraw this nourishment only from the tissues among which they are growing and multi- plying. The effect of this withdrawal is in general not very grave. It can only become dangerous to life, when the bacteria multiply within the circulating blood and withdraw from it the indispen- sable oxygen it contains. The withdrawal of nutriment is not however the only result; it is seldom even the most important. Investigations show that the vital activity of the bacteria of necessity sets up extensive chemical change in their own nutrient materials. These changes are partly due to their direct action (Art. 191), partly to the action of the unorganised ferments which they form. Lastly, in the course of these changes matters are produced which act as poisons upon the system. This effect of the bacteria on their nutrient fluids, and the production of poisonous matters, have much more to do with the genesis of the symptoms in most of the microparasitic affections, than has the mere with- drawal of nutriment. The influence of such factors is manifested in disturbances of the functional, formative, and nutritive activities of the organism. These activities are the expression of the cell-life of the tissues; hence the statement that bacteria disturb the vital actions of the tissue-cells. In Art. 81 we compared the life-history of the tissue- cells with that of the bacteria. We may not inopportunely refer to the comparison once more in this place. The nutritive activity of the tissue-cells is not confined to the replacement of used material by the absorption and assimilation of new material. Like the bacteria the tissue-cells act catalyticaUy on their surroundings, partly by fermentive action (Art. 191), partly by the formation of unorganised ferments. Many cells have in addition the power of setting up synthetic processes. When bacteria proceed to multiply within a tissue, a double influence is brought to bear on the common nutrient medium ; the bacteria enter into conflict with the tissue-cells. We do not of course know in what exact way this conflict is carried on. But we may believe that the bacteria do not communicate to the organic compounds contained in the juices the same kinds of chemical motion as the tissue-cells. They will not therefore give rise to the same chemical changes as the latter. More or less serious disturb- ance of the normal metabolism of the tissues must ensue. This is the first effect, but not the only one. Different kinds of fermentation cannot go on in presence of each other for any length of time. One is more and more repressed, and at length suppressed, as the other advances. This cannot of course happen without simultaneous injury to the corresponding ferment. Thus