303 CHAP. XXX.] THE SCHIZOMV( ETES OR BACTERIA. virulence, Comptes Rend us vol. 92; Kleus, Arch. f. e.vp. Path, xm; BUCHNEK, Kcp. Erzeuq. d. Milzbrandbacillen ecus Heubacillen Munich 1880, Miinchener Acad. d. Wiss. Jan. 12, 1882, and Naoeli's Untersuch. iib. n. Pilze Munich 1882; Urlichs, Arch. f. klin. Chir. xxiv; Koch, Traumatic Inf. Bis. 1880, Mitth. a. d. k: Gesundh. Berlin 1881; Gaffky, ibidem; Fokker," Virch. Arch. vol. 88; Wolff, Virch. Arch. vol. 81; Semmer, Virch. Arch. vol. 83; Davaine, Acad, de m>Jd. Paris 1872; Greenfield, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1880, Journ. Roy. Agric. Soc. 1880; Klein, Rep. Med. Off. Loc. Gov. Board 1881; Miquel, Bull. Soc. Botan. 1881. Wolff maintains that micrococci and short bacilli change into each other, and seeks to support this by showing that transitional forms exist. What lie takes for transitional forms may very easily however be nothing more than germinating spores, or even rodlets viewed obliquely. His statement—that he obtained bacilli from a rabbit into whose peritoneal cavity he had injected micrococci—is explicable by supposing the injected matter to be impure. Wernich also asserts that the various forms may be interchanged, and speaks of the circumstance as evidence of " unstable morphological equilibrium." He gives no other evidence in support of his idea. With regard to Klebs and Billroth, and their views in this connexion, see Art. 185. 210. The defective state of our knowledge makes it for the present impossible to give a definite answer to the question of the mutability of the bacteria. It would however appear from the researches of Naegeli and others that we are not absolutely justified in regarding all the various forms as representing distinct biological species. The idea of a species must be based on characters that are constant, not on those which may alter with the surroundings. The researches of Koch and his pupils do not prove that the properties of the bacteria examined by them are perfectly constant. They only show that the morphological and physiological qualities possessed by a bacterium at a given time are retained by it with some tenacity, even when a certain amount of variation takes place in its environment. On the other hand the researches of Naegeli, Buchner, Wernich, and others seem to afford evidence that this constancy is not shown under all conditions: that changes of the nutrient medium may have some effect on the form and size of the cells, on their mode of multiplication, and on their physiologi- cal or fermentive properties. Changes of this kind and extent do not however indicate that one species is transformed into another. We must rather conclude that one or other of the properties possessed by a biological species of bacterium may be brought into prominence by proper modifications of the external conditions. The mutability manifested by a given bacterium will thus have definite limits. The bacterium cannot in any period of time within the extent of our observation acquire properties different from any of those possessed by the species to which it belongs. As to the extent of the cycle of varieties through which any one of the known bacteria may pass, we know indeed but little. It is possible that the properties of many of them admit of only the slightest variations from those with which we are acquainted. It is moreover probable that many of the varieties known to us constitute true biological species.