120 FORMATIVE DISTURBANCES OF NUTRITION. [SECT. IV. limiting factor, in the epithelia it is the cohesion or cementation of the individual cells into a firm and single whole; just as in yeast- fermentation it is the formation of alcohol. When the alcohol is withdrawn in the latter case the multiplication of the yeast-fungus goes on again. So likewise if the intercellular substance be dis- solved away from a connective tissue, or if the continuity of the epithelial mosaic be loosened or interrupted, the faculty of multi- plication is again awakened in the constituent cells; or if (as in the epithelia) it has never been dormant, it is at once intensified. In the human organism temperature is not a factor of such importance as it is in regard to unicellular organisms. In the former the temperature is approximately uniform : change of temperature cannot therefore play any great part in promoting cell-growth. Even changes in the quality of the cell- nutriment can have but a small part of the significance here that it has in the case of fungi living in a nutrient solution : such grave changes as may be artificially produced in the character of the solution do not occur in the body. Quantitative variations are thus of the greater importance. 82. It often happens in an organ which is the seat of hyper- plastic proliferation that the different elements do not take an equal share in the process. Thus an enlarged gland may 'in one case owe its increase in size entirely to additions of gland-substance, in another to increase in the fibrous constituents. We may have a glandular hyperplasia, or a fibrous hyperplasia. This may happen in any organ which is composed of more than one kind of tissue. The inequality in the relation of the two tissues may be so extreme, that while one is highly hyperplastic the other may not merely fail to increase but may even undergo atrophy. In the latter case it is generally the specific elements (ganglion-cells, nerves, gland-cells, muscles, &c.) which atrophy, while the fibrous elements increase and multiply. A very frequent cause of such unsymmetrical hyperplasia of the fibrous tissue is inflammation (which see). In- flammation plays a chief part in pathology; only too frequently its disastrous result is fibrous hyperplasia of the affected organs, involving atrophy of their essential elements. What is true of hyperplasia, holds also for regeneration. When part of a tissue has been destroyed, the regeneration which ensues is by no means always complete and perfect. In the human organ- ism at least, the power of restoring or regenerating a lost part is very limited. Parts of any appreciable size when once lost are never replaced. This is true for example of a limb, a finger, a piece of liver, or of brain-substance. All highly-specialised structures, and their specific elements, show but slight traces of regenerative power. Thus in adults it is highly probable that ganglion-cells are never reproduced, if once destroyed. Glandular epithelium is only restored when the loss is very trifling, and when some of the essential cells still remain intact within the gland-unit (acinus or tubule). When a gland is wounded and its texture broken into ever so little, the wound in healing fills up not with gland-substance but with fibrous