271 CHAP. XXX.] THE SCIIIZOMYCETES OR BACTERIA. by this exposure. Superheated steam at 105° kills all bacterial germs. A jet of steam is more powerful than steam in a closed chamber. It will kill all kinds of germs in ten to fifteen minutes, and it readily penetrates the articles to be disinfected (Koch, Gaffky, Loffler). When using boiling water for disinfecting purposes, care must be taken that the heat is kept up long enough, i.e. until all the parts are warmed up to 100°. The effect of temperature in modifying the virulence of pathogenous bacteria will be referred to later on. 190. Another factor of importance in regard to bacterial de- velopment is the presence of foreign or non-nutritive substances in the nutrient liquid. Many substances (like corrosive sublimate, bromine, iodine, and some acids) have a very powerful effect even in small quantity. They put an end to growth and fermentive action, or kill the organisms outright. Other substances have no injurious effect unless present in considerable quantity. The fermentive action of the fungi leads to the formation in the nutrient liquid of substances which, when they reach a certain degree of concentration, may ultimately put a stop to the growth and multiplication of the fungi themselves. In alcoholic or lactic fermentation, for instance, the gradually accumulating alcohol or lactic acid ultimately brings the fermentive process to a standstill. If nutritive matters be present in excess (or if, in other words, the supply of water be inadequate), the growth and multiplication of the fungi ceases in like manner. This is the reason why conserves of fruit made with sugar do not ferment, why con- densed milk does not turn sour, and why dried or salted meat does not putrefy. By withdrawing water, or by adding substances which dissolve in the organic liquids, we are able to increase the proportion of solids to liquids in organic substances such as provisions, and so preserve them from decomposition by fungi. The quantity of water necessary for the development of fungi like bacteria and the yeast-plant is greater than in the case of the mould-fungi. Horwath's and Eeinke's researches (Pfliigers Arch, xvn, xxill) show that constant agitation of the liquid hinders the development of bacteria, and may even check their multiplication altogether. A further factor of importance in bacterial development is the presence of lower orders of fungi in the nutrient liquid. As higher plants often encroach on and interfere with each other, so it is possible for bacteria, yeast-plants, and moulds to interfere and compete with each other for nutriment (Naegeli). A bacterium, which is thriving and multiplying in a given liquid, may be checked and ultimately killed merely by introducing another fungus which is still more at home in the liquid. Thus if we introduce into a nutrient liquid containing sugar the germs of a number of fungi of different classes, the bacteria alone will multiply and set up lactic fermentation. If a half per cent, of tartaric acid be now added, the yeast-fungi alone will proceed to multiply, and