CH. XXVI.] MESOBLASTIC TUMOURS. ROUND-CELLED SARCOMA. 215 The amount of intercellular substance present chiefly determines the consistence and the tint. Forms which are soft, marrowy, and white or greyish-white on section, are rich in cells and poor in intercellular substance. Firm and coarse-grained forms are poorer in cells and abound more in fibrous intercellular tissue. The latter kinds pass without any break into the fibromata. Intermediate forms are described as fibrosarcomata. The cut surface of a sarcomatous tumour has a uniform look through- out; unless indeed it has undergone retrogressive changes, or the amount of blood in it varies from part to part. It looks evenly smooth, in medullary tumours milk-white, in firmer kinds clear greyish-white and translucent, or greyish-red or brown. The hard forms are white or yellowish-white, and lustrous on section. The blood-vessels are variously developed: now and then they are exceptionally wide and numerous, or even irregularly dilated, as in telangiectatic sarcoma. Lymphatics have not been shown to exist in sarcomata. Ketrogressive changes are apt to happen, such as fatty change, mucoid change, liquefaction, caseation, disintegration, haemorrhage, putrefaction, ulceration, &c. 158. Round-celled sarcoma. The small-round-celled sar- comata are very soft rapidly-growing tumours. They chiefly occur in the connective tissues of the locomotive and skeletal system; as also in the skin, testis, ovary, and lymphatic glands. They are usually milky white on section, and not infrequently contain softened or cheesy patches. A milky juice can be got by scraping the cut surface. Their structure is very simple: it consists almost entirely of round-cells and vessels (Fig. 48). The former are Fig. 48. Section through the margin of a sarcoma affecting the inter- muscular connective tissue. (Carmine staining: x 300) a normal muscle-fibre c fully developed tumour-tissue «i atrophied muscle-fibres d round-cells resembling white blood- b round-cells intruded between the corpuscles muscle-fibres