CHAPTER IV. ANOMALIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE BLOOD WITHIN THE VESSELS. HYPERAEMIA AND ANAEMIA. 19. It is the office of the blood to convey nutriment to the organs and tissues.' The cells and cellular structures, of which these are built up, cannot long continue to exist unless they are kept supplied with fresh nutriment. For this reason most tissues are furnished with blood-vessels, and those which are not so furnished are in intimate relation with others which are. The demand for blood on the part of a tissue is not at all times equally great. Hence the supply may also undergo a corresponding increase or diminution, and with the incoming supply varies also the amount of blood actually present in the tissue. If a vascular organ happen thus to contain an unusually large amount of blood it is called hyperaemic; if it contains less than usual it is anaemic. The regulation of the amount of blood, which an organ receives imder physiological conditions, is effected by modifying the resist- ances offered by the arterial system. This modification of the resistances again is effected simply by means of changes in the calibre of the arteries. The quantity of blood contained in the entire body is insufficient to fill all the vessels at the same time. It is thus possible to increase the supply to any one organ only by diminishing the amount sent in other directions. The calibre of the arteries is altered by help of the elasticity of their walls and the contractility of their intrinsic non-striated muscles, and this apart from the action of changes in the blood-pressure otherwise conditioned. The intrinsic muscles of the arterial wall constitute the active regulating element. Their activity is dependent partly upon influences which directly affect them, and partly upon nervous impulses. These latter are transmitted to them from centres some of which are intravascular, and some situated in the medulla oblongata. They may act so as to contract the vessels, or to dilate them, as the case may be.