Book No 0287651 30 14 002876517 STORE W 1 - k Store IC«0V 1995 .^'^^fJ596 Glasgow UHtetsiqJ-ibrary 0 0 2 6 M.A'LJo 9 MAY 1996 2 5 m/ms GUL GUL 1 2 APR 1996 1 8 JAf -7 FB? 1996 C»j!r!^fill - 7 ffilR 1995 GUL 68.18Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21471824Fry's Car Cocoa "A packet can easily be obtained, and its delicate flavour and f.ne aroma ensure its adoption as a beverage for breakfast or supper. - S'toJK/flJc' "No more delicioin, refreshing, nour'shing, and wliolesonie bevera;j' has ever been manufactured."—Morning Post. EXTRACT OF COCOA. THE Pan ( 'nr,,n xri) dcinived of the Superfluous Oil. 0( great value to'Invafids and others obliged to avoid rich articles of diet." FRY'S O COCOA PASTE AND MILK. Pre2)ajied.ivith Fvre Condemecl Milk. Only requires to be mixed with boiling water to produce a delicious cup of cocoa. ft is spedaUyMdcvj - ■• /br Travellers^ and for use at Seer. Six Prize Medals; Cold JMCodal, Paris, X870. AWARDED TO J. S. FEY & SONS, Bristol & London.J. C. & J. FIELD'S NEW PATENT AND OTHER CANDLES, NIGHT LIGHTS, & TOILET SOAPS. OZOKERIT — Patented. — This ■well known Candle gives the most brilliant lisrht, and from its hardness is Epceially adapted for Ball Ifooms, &c. &c. SPERMACETI & COMPOSI- TION, or TRANSPARENT WAX CANDLES.-These beautiful Candles, the latter used by Her Majesty, distinguished by their soft light and steady burning, still maintain, in spite of the numerous competing varieties inlroduerd of late, their high position amongst the upper classes, and ean be had either with plain or patent self-fitting ends as desired. SEIjP-FITTING. —These admir- able Candles are yearly in increasing de- mand, and are supplied as heretofore in Spermaecti, Paraffin, Fetro-Stearine, and also in Chamber Candles, 12 in a box. WEDGE -FITTING.—The trouble and danger of paper are avoided by the use of these patented Candles. Under the name of the " Westminster Wedge Candles" they are supplied as follows :— Transparent Paraffin, ] 6's, 8"8, & Hard, white, and glossy Stearine ,- 12's to Composites of all qualities ) lb. only. AND Chamber Candles, 13 in a box. N O N - G U T T E R I N G CANDLES.—The tendency to gutter greatly lessened—are sold as follows:—The Channelled Candles, yellow; the Flnti.d Candles, clear, in boxes of 18, 24, and 36 ' candles each; and the Cable Candles, white, I in boxes of 12, 18, and 24 candles each. ! The Candles varying in size, each box of the I same quality is sold at the same price. THE AERATED CANDLES : have longitudinal internal channels for the prevention of guttering, and into these j external air is introduced, adding brilliancy I to the flame. Sold in boxes of 12, 18, and 24 candles each, varying in size, and the same price each box. NIGHT-LIGHTS.—Certaintv and regularity. OGLKBY'S STAR NIGHT LIGHTS, as a rule, burn their time and give a good light. TOILET SOAPS. —The well known UNITED SERVICK *AI5LETS, in general use through the United Kingdom, the Colonics, and British Settlements throughout the world. THE SPERMACETI TABLET possesses valuable emollient properties, and is exquisitely perfumed. "THE LADIES' BOUDOIR CANDLES." These elegant Candles, carved in the pattern of a cable, and tinted in the most delicate hades of rose, green, lavender, &c., arc beyond question the most striking and beautiful Caudles ever produced. In boxes of three, four, and five candles each. J. C. & J. FIELD'S NEW PATENT AND OTHER CANDLES, NIGHT LIGHTS, AND TOILET SOAPS May be obtained of all dealers throughout the United Kingdom. The Trade i.lonc supplied, but Messrs. l-im.n will be happy to supply consumers with any information as to the special qualities of their gools, and with the names of their nearest vendors.EVERY-DAY COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING BOOK.QHOCOLAT de la Cie. uuLOx HHOCOLAT delaCOMPAGNIE COLON vy is composed of the best Cacao and Sugar only. pHOCOLAT de la COMPAGNIE COLON \J is exempt from admixture with any other substances. pHOCOLAT de la COMPAGNIE COLON \_J is prepared with care and appliances hitherto unknown. pHOCOLAT dela COMPAGNIE COLO!'TALE is in fact the only unsophisticated form of Cocoa. p HOCOLAT de la COMPAGNIE COLON V_/ Specially established to give to Chocolate, considered fro. point of view, those beneficent properties of \\hich this preciouf susceptible ; the C7'«- Coloniale desires before all to give to the c article of incontestable and unrivalled superiority. pnOCOLAT de la COMPAGNIE COLC LE consisting solely of Cocoa of superior quality and sugar. tcet. pHOCOLAT de la COMPAGNIE COLONTALl exceptionally honest in quality, rich in nutrition, and cable t< the palate.—Medical Pj-ess. pHOCOLAT de la CAMPAGNIE COLO: ALT carefully prepared, no admixture save sugar, and modera' > price Medical Times. pHOCOLAT de la COMPAGNIE COLONIALI \J prepared from the finest specimens of the Cacao bean.—Practitioner pHOCOLAT de la Cie. COLONIALE ^ 4, PALL MALL, LONDON. AT ALL THE PRINCIPAL HOUSESi with Totatoes.■ 1 I 1BEETON'S EVERY-DAY COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING BOOK: COMPRISING INSTRUCTIONS FOR MISTRESS AND SERVANTS, AND A COLLECTION OF OVER FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRACTICAL RECEIPTS. Mii^ 104 Coloimb '§lnUB, ■ SHOWING THE PROPER MODE OF SENDING DISHES TO TABLE. LONDON: WARD, LOCK, AND TYLER, WARWICK HOUSE, PATERNOSTER ROW.SCHWEITZER'S COCOATINA. ANTI-DYSPEPTIC COCOA. OE CHOCOLATE POWDEB. Guaranteed Pure Soluble Cocoa, wltbout Admixture. Strongly Itecommended by the Faculty for Family use. COCOATINA is the HIGHEST CLASS of SOLUBLE COCOA or CHOCOLATE. This unique pure preparation of the finest Cocoa Beans in a con- centrated form is pronounced by THE FACULTY the most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast, Luncheon or Supper, and invaluable in the sick-room and nursery. It is made instantaneously with Boiling Water or Milk, and being without Sugar it is adapted to all palates. COCOATINA wiU bear the STRICTEST CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION. Being absolutely ALL COCOA with the excess of fatty matter extracted by a peculiar process, without prejudice to quality or flavour, it is nearly four times the strength of ordinary Cocoas, and therefore com- paratively cheaper. One teaspoonful is sufficient for a cup of Cocoa—the cost of which is about one Halfpenny. Although adapted to the most refined taste and delicate appetite by its exquisite flavour and freedom from adulteration or coarseness, it is an invigorating, refreshing beverage for the strong and healthy. COCOATINA A LA VANILLE is superior to the finest Vanilla Chocolate, more delicate, much cheaper, and perfectly digestible. These preparations require no boiling—they keep in all climates, and g,re palatable without milk. DIRECTION'S FOR TTSZ:. Mix a small Teaspoonful of the Powder in a breakfast cup, with the sugar required, either dry, or with sufficient COLD Water to form a paste ; pour on BOILINGr Water or Milk.—For Chocolate—Increase the quantity of Powder and Sugar to taste. SOLE PROPKIETOBS : H. SCHWEITZER & Co., 10, Adam Street. Adelphi, Sold in Air-tight Tin P; Chemists, Grocers, and Confec ckSte, ontypVW LIBRARY Ife. 6d., 3s., 5b. 6d., &c., by BSOiiyS amples gratis.PREFACE. THe reasons for the publication of this Volume—the First of a Series of Practical Manuals which were to be called the "All About It" Books— were thus explained in a Prospectus issued a few months ago, and approved by the late Mrs. S. O. Beeton :— the seven-and-sixpenny " Household Management" and the ShilUng Cookery Book. Accordingly Mrs. Beeton has pre- pared a Collection of Recipes, and of other Practical Informa- tion concerning the Dressing and Serving of Family Fare, which, when completed, will be published, in serviceable binding, at the price of Tloree ShilHngs and Sixpence. As Mistress, Cook, and Critic have declared that the details in Mrs. Beeton's larger work are so easy to understand^ the Authoress has followed, in every Recipe printed in the present Dictionary, the same simple plan she originally used. Regarding, however, the arrangement of the Recipes, the Authoress has chosen the Dictionary form, believing an alphabetical arrangement to be the best for a book that is being constantly referred to. By the adoption of a very intelligible system, all cross reference, and that very dis- ANY wishes have been expressed to the Authoress of the *' Book of Household Management" that a volum e of Recipes in Cookery should be written which could be sold at a price somewhere betweenVIU PREFACE. agreeable parenthesis {Sec So-and-so) is avoided, except in a very few instances. Where any warning as to what should ihot be done is likely to be needed, it is given, as well as advice as to what ought to be done. No pains have been thought too great to make little things clearly understood. Trifles constitute perfection. It is just the knowledge or ignorance of little things that usually makes the difference between the success of the careful and experienced housewife or servant, and the failure of her who is careless and inex- perienced. Mrs. Beeton has brought to her new offering to the Public a most anxious care to describe plainly and fully all the more difficult and recondite portions of Cookery, whilst the smallest items have not been " unconsidered trifles," but each Recipe and preparation have claimed minute attention.Eight Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, y. f>d.; Ivory Enamel, 7^.; Tortoiseshell, 7*.; Morocco, js. 6d.; Morocco extra, loj. 6d. MOXON'S POPULAR POETS. EDITED BY WILLIAM MICHAEL ROSBETTI. The Press and the Public, alike in Great Britain and her Colonies, and in the United States, unite in their tesfi'mony to the immense superiority of Messrs. Moxon's Popular Poets over any other similar collections published by any other house. Their possession of the Copyright Works of Coleridge, Hood, Keats, Shelley, Wordsworth, and other great National Poets, places this series above rivalry. 1. Byron's Poetical Works. 2. Longfellow's Poetical Works. 3. Wordsworth's Poetical Works. 4. Scott's Poetical Works. 5. Shelley's Poetical Works. 6. Moore's Poetical Works. 7. Hood's Poetical Works. 8. Keats's Poetical Works. 9. Coleridge's Poetical Works. 10. Bums's Poetical Works. 11. Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy. The Four Series now first Complete in One Vol., with Portrait. 12. Milton's Poetical Works. 13. Campbell's (Thos.) Poetical Works. 14. Pope's Poetical Works. 15. Cowper's Poetical Works. 16. Mrs. Eemans' Poems. 17. A Selection of Humorous Poems. 18. A Selection of American Poems. MOXON'S LIBRARY POETS. The complete and continuing success of MOXON'S POETS, in the popular Thrce-and-Sixpenny Series, has induced the house to commence the publication of a LIBRARY EDITION of Moxon's Poets. PRICE FIVE SHILLINGS PER VOLUME. Handsomely printed on goml paper, either half Roxburgh or cloth, gilt edges. "These Volumes will be regularly issued until the Library Edition is complete. 'J'he First Volumes ready will be Keats and Tupper (immediately), and the entire Series will be in the hands of the Trade ready for the Christmas Season. E. MOXON, SON, & CO., Dover Street, W., and Amen Corner, Paternoster Row, E.G.Jiist published, in folio, cloth gilt, gilt edges. Engravings, aij. ; Proofs 42/ KEATS'S Poetic Romance, ENDYMION. ILLUSTRATED BY E. J. POYNTER, A.R.A. Six magnificent Engravings on Steel by F. Jouhf.rt, from Paintings by E. J. Povnter. This will undoubtedly prove the grandest Present Book of the Season. THE HOODOORE. THOMAS HOOD. Illustrated hy Gustave Dork. With Nine EMgr.-ivin.srs on .Steel, from Original Drawing., by Gu.stave Dor6, and many Wooacut Illustrations, folio, i\s., cloth gilt, gilt edges. THE TENNYSON-bORE SERIES. With Engravings on Steel from Drawings by Gustave Dor6, in cloth gilt, gilt edges. .o* THE IDYLLS OF THE KING. 37 Engravings. In One mag- nificciu folio Volume, 73J. (>d. ELAINE. Nine Engra%'ings, folio, aij. .VIVIEN'. Nine Engravings, folio, 21J. ENID. Nine Engravings, folio, 2i.f. IgITINEVERE. Nin-; Engravings, folio,21X, *,* VivffiN AND Guinevere, bound in One Volume, ^-zs. Just published, large 410, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 215. : proofs, India, mounted, 421. THOMAS HOOD. Again Illustrated by Biricet Poster. Twenty-two Drawings by BxRKJiT Foster. Engraved on Steel by William Milleh, of Edinburgh. Containing— The Plea oe the Midsummer Fairies. The Mermaid of Margate. Hiino and Leander. A. Legend ok Navarfe, Our Ladv's Chapel. The Dream oe Eugene Aram. The Flower. Thie Elm Thee. Lay of the Labourer. Th;-: Haunted IIoi'SE. A Storm kt Hastings. The Roman'cb of Cologne. Alio, uniform with the above. Engravings, 2:.?. ; Proofs, ^7.s. THOMAS HOOD. Illustrated by Birket Foster. First Series. Now re:idy, New Edition, fcap. 4to,'cloth gilt, gilt edges. 21.V. HOOD'S MISS KILMANSEGG and HER PRECIOUS LEG. Illu.strated by Sixty Etchings from Drawings by Tho.mas Seccomde. Price io.<-. fid., crov/n Svo. h.ilf Roxburgh. The POETS and POETRY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY. Ijy J. Devi-.v, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. *»* Messrs. Moxon and Co., in announcing this Volume—a Criticism and Ct.'^np.arative Estimate of the Poets of the Nineteenth Century—believe t'lT, as a Companion Volume to tht.ir Series of the Poets, it will be reccivi ' lovers of verse in the light of a guide, philosopher, and friend. The rival ic!. poetry are here described and valued by .1 competent hand, and errors of jud^iueul .and taste pointed out, whether of one or another school. In the Press, New Volume of the H avdn Scries. A DICTIONARY of POPULAR MEDICINE and HYGIENE ; comprising all pr- - '1- Self-aids in Accidents and Disea.se: being a Companion for the Traveller, immigrant, and Clergyman, as well as for the heads of all Families and Institutions. Edited by Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.R.S., Coroner of North Middlesex. Assisted by Professors of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. E. MOXON, SON, & CO., Dover Street, W., and Amen Corner, Paternoster Row, E.G.PHILOSOPHY OF HOUSEKEEPING. lOI BOUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD "WORKS AITD WAYS. 1. If the Mistress of a household considers that she is steward of her husband's operty, and that upon her diligence, knowledge, and capability depends tha lire happiness of her household, she will understand how important is her post, d how any negligence on her part must necessarily repeat itself in the conduct her domestics. It is seldom requisite that a mistress should perform other )rk than that of supervising her household, choosing and paying for household ijuisites ; but it is imperative that she should clearly understand the " Philo- phy of Housekeeping," and that she should not be the dupe of designing servants the ignorant director of an equally ignorant maid. Every household rangement must differ in detail—in way and modes of living as well as in mbers. No book can give exact laws and regulations which will be found table to every house ; but common-sense rules aj ply to every household in all itions of life, and the results of years of experience must be of service to ung beginners. 2. The difficulties which besot young mistresses of households are great, but an elligent arrangement soon makes these difficulties disappear; and once the itine duties of households ai'e arranged, it is easy to go on with regularity and nfort. 3. No amount of love, of beauty, or of intelligence will make home happy with- ;a " right judgment" on the part of the housewife. A woman must rule her .isehold, or bo ruled by it; she must either hold the reins with a tight, firm id, never pariing with, but seldom using, tho whip ; or the reins fi ll from the 3, careless hand, and are seized by suburdinates, and the hard-working hus- id is placed, by his wife's indolence, under the control of his domestics, and i to depend upon their honeaty and zeal alone. 4. Earlt Rising on tho part of the mistress is even more essential than for tho vants to be early risers ; for if the maids see that the mistress does not stir an early hour, they think that they may indulge a little too : but if the ail Philosophy of Ilousekeeping. mistress bo regular in making her appearance, the maids do not like a go- kind lady to have cheerless, undusted rooms to go into, and take care to Ije good time. 5. A Mistress should rise at latest at seven o'clock. This will appear dre fully late to some notables, but will be found to be a good hour all the year rov The mistress should take her cold bath, and perform a neat, careful, and pre morning toilet. Having performed this careful toilet, .she will be ready to desci at eight o'clock, but before leaving her room will place two chairs at the en< the bed, and turn the whole of the bedclothes over them, and, except on v rainy momin2;s, will throw open the windows of her room. She should then : her own and husband's night-dress, which have been airing during her toilet, place them in their ornamented cover; she will put brushes, combs, hair-p &c., in their proper places, and leave her toilet-table clear and tidy, and m the whole room as neat as possible. Key-basket in hand, she should desc to the breakfast-room, at once ring for the kettle or tea-urn, accort to the season, and make the tea, coffee, cocoa, or chocolate, as the case may Her eye should now glance over the table to see that everything required for table is in its place, and that all is neatly arranged and ready for the fa- —flowers on the table, preserve or marmalade in cut-glass dishes. 6. If a Mother, with a young infant, she should don a dressing-gown in of a dress, and wash her baby before coming down ; indeed, if children of age take morning baths, we advocate that no one but raamrna should dry tl As soon as these duties are over, the mistress should proceed to the break room and make the tea, coffee, or chocolate, and ring the bell for the break as above stated. When it is possible to get the master to enjoy an eight o' breakfast, household matters go on charmingly. He is usually out of the by nine, and by that hour the windows are wide open, every door set open (we permitting), and a thorough draught of " delicious air" is passed throug whole dwelling. 7. As soon as The Mistrkss hears her husband's step, the bell should be for the hot dish ; and should he be, as business men usually are, rather pr for time, she should herself wait upon him, cuttinghis bread, buttering his i &c. Also give standing orders that coat, hat, and umbrella shall be br: and ready; and see that they are, by helping on the coat, banding the hat glancing at the umbrella. 8. The Work of the Household will proceed with a far greater rcgularit despatch when the mistress is able and willing to assist in the lighter duties 9. As soon as the husband has gone off to his work, have the breakfast cl< and go into the kitchen to give orders for the day; but in some old fan before the breakfast is cleared a spotlessly' cleai^ wood-bowl is brought iniii Boutine of Hoasehold Works and Ways. tray, accompanied by tea-cloths; the mistress then proceeds to wash up the nps, saucers, &c., dries and places them upon a tray, the servant carrying them o their places. This custom is a relic of the old Puritan system of orderly ;ork, and is not as general as could be desired ; but some mistresses still wash ip the breakfast things in order to leave the maid time to get on with her ipstairs duties. 10. The first Duty of the mistress after breakfast is to give her orders for Le day, and she naturally begins with the cook. 11. Ox ENTERING THE KiTCUEN, invariably say, "Good morning, cook" (a curtesy much appreciated below stairs), go into the larder—do not give a mere ;lance, careless or nervous, as the case may be, but examine every article there ; lever let anything that displeases your neat eye pass; it is much easier to ioiTCct as you go along, than to overburden a maid with directions or repri- nandb. Do not allow any shy fear of strangers, as new servants of course are, 0 interfere with the careful discharge of your duty as a wife and mistress of ■he household. Look in the bread-pan and see that there is no waste. After all oints a good basin of dripping o^^ght to be in the larder. 12. In ordering Dinner it is best to write down what you intend having; f ( r nstancc, one o'clock dinner, " Cold beef, potatoes, greens, apple pudding;" sit seven or eight) o'clock dinner, " Julieune soup, fish, roast fowl, gravy, bread auce, boiled bacon, browned potatoes, spinach, plum tart, custard pudding." 13. Another good result from writing down the dinner; it keeps both mistress md cook up to the mark in seeing that every proper accompaniment to a dish s served with it. 11. The Cook then knows exactly what she has to prepare, and the order-book s a useful check on butcher, grocer, and gi-eengrocer. 15. If a Lady is content to order daily what is wanted, she will not have the jxcellent dinners obtained by a little forethought. Few butchers can be relied on ;o send meat in prime condition for roasting; there are but few weeks in England rvhen it is not safe to hang meat; in autumn mutton will often hang for eight lays, in winter fourteen or twenty-one will not be too long. A good housekeeper ivill always arrange so as to have a joint or two hanging in the winter, and one ioint hanging nearly always. The day decided on for cooking a leg of mutton, )rder another in for hanging. 16. Wbll-hung Meat " goes further " than hard frcih meat; and does credit to buyer and cook. 17. If a Mistress devote careful thought to her dinners for servants and ausband she is doing her best to keep the health of her household.iv Philosophy of Housekeeping. IS. Cooks will frequently suggest dishes: this is a great help to a young wife; but a mistress should possess courage to say, " I cannot afford this." 19. Ip a Servant find that her mistress is determined to see for herself that her orders involve no extravagance and no waste, she wjW do one of two things— either enter fully into her mistress's views, or leave her place. Both courses are good for tlie mistress, but naturally the first is the i^leasanter to all parties. 20. We once told a good-hearted but extravagant cook, that we should much like to give her carle blanche in cooking details, but that if we did so and spent all the housekeeping money on eating and drinking, we should be unable to do what we have always done—give the maids good medical advice when they were ill, pay for their medicine, and give them wine if ordered by the doctor. Her only reply was, " Lor, mum !" but a speedy change took place, and she remained a careful, faithful woman, until her marriage. 21. Invariably speak the exact truth to servants, be firm, but' mind and never address an unnecessary ^vord to a new servant; old tried servants are privileged, but new ones must be kept " in place," and all temptation to gossip checked at once. This is not easy to do kindly, but tact and dignity will make it easy. 22. Young Wives are often lonely and talk to their maids for a change; it is a bad plan, depend upon it, and often causes disagreeable liberties to be taken. 23. Before leaving the Lower Regions, the mistress should look into scullery, washhouse (larder she has been in), and kitchen proper ; see that all is neat audi tidy; remembering that she is steward of her husband's property, and accountable for any misuse of it. All things in the house belong to you and to him, and if you do not care to see every article clean, bright, and tidy, you cannot expect your: maids to care about it. 24. On LEAVING the Kitchen, it is the duty of the mistress to go into every room of the house to see if all is cleanly and in order; she should first go into her own room, which ought by this time to be arranged, unless it is the regular day fof- cleaning it thoroughly, when the housemaid should be busily engaged on it. Thea ., mistress should carefully inspect every portion of the room, as it is her careful audi ^ observant eye alone that will detect careless or unhealthy habits in her maids. 25. Windows should look bright and clean ; no dust should deface the fumitard.. or thread or speck the carpet; all water-vessels should be clean, and filled witl pure water: a small quantity of hot water bhould be placed in the cbambci utensils. The towels should be taken out to air in the garden, weather permitting or dried in the kitchen. 26. The bed should look neat, the counterpane being smoothly drawn over it-9 Eoutine of Household "Works and Ways. and curtains arranged in seemly folds. The blinds should hang evenly, and the window curtains be neatly looped back. 27. In the Master's Room the bath should be dry and spotless, the water-cans filled, and standing on a Kamptulicon mat, the sponge drying in its basket, the toilet-table neat, brushes put by, and all things in order: boots arranged ia pairs, and slippers (if worked) brushed and put ready for use. _ 28. The Spare Room should next be inspected, whether in or out of use, the window opened, and well aired. 29. Then the Servants' Room. There is no need for a mistress to do more than take a glance in to see if the window be open, the room aired, the bed made the slops emptied, and the floor neat and clean. A lady should tell her maids that she looks in once a day to see that all is right and comfortable in their room or rooms; this puts everything on a straightforward open footing., and prevents unhealthy, untidy habits, and gives the mistress a chance of maldng all within the house comfortable. 30 The Closest Inspection should be made of every room in the house, not ixceptmg the very smallest; and nothing should be omitted to be placed where equ.red. Bedroom, clothes, and other closets should be kept scrupulously clean ^nd everything wanted should be put ready to hand. Water supplies and drain houW be carefully and regularly supervised, and newspaper, it should be remem- ered, is apt to stop up the drain and cause much expense, whicli curlinc^-paper oes not. The mistress should ascertain that the water supply is plentiful for t on these apparent trifles that the health of households depends. earivs^etdown'%'"°/'-' "'^^'"""^ ^^'^^^^ °^ ^ mistress's work being eariy set down ; it ,s to ignorance of these facts that we owe the minor miserief Uisasuer i^ the mistress s neglect of sanitary precautions. ■d^L nl^r^fK f^° ^"<i orders given to the gardener, id the plants in the house attended to by the lady. r !L tVtreT.^" T^'^ '^"^ " ''''''"^ 1^'^^ °f t^^"" --^^> «o it is good 1 0^" trtime'rr ' f ^' ^nterinipfions nlUlllT drT"T°° of any individual. Tlie following work Tto e even o'ctk ^^^^^^^ to the house and morning duties brings .eh ti:o:^rd izr^Xr''^^' r''^'''''^ -^-^^^ a y wane Should be taken, weather permitting, and the ladyPhilosophy of Housekeeping. should first go and order anything required for the bouse, then return visits, or take a good constitutional until four o'clock. From four to five write letters, or road for an hour (serious reading, leaving light reading for evening). At five, when necessary, go downstairs to speak to cook, glance round to see all pre- parations are getting forward for the six o'clock dinner; then go upstairs, inspect the housemaid's performance of needlework, always laid in your room for that purpose, and dress for dinner. Go into the dining-room, and see all is read}', put out the wine, arrange dessert and flowers. Then be ready at a quarter to six to receive le mari, and see that he has his hot water, slippers, &c. At six, dinner, after which coffee and amusements of music, reading, cards, or needle- work of a light nature. 35. Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday mornings may be devoted to the garden and plants, the afternoon to walking or driving as before, or any particular hobby or study. 36. Minor Details 01" Housework should be attended to by the mistress, who should see that her servants attend to the little things that give a neat and cared- for appearance to the house. For example, the doorsteps must be cleaned and whitened daily ; the blinds drawn down and shutters closed regularly as soon as it is dark; all windows closed at sunset, and opened as soon as possible in tho morning. The mistress must look at the outside of her house as well as see that the inside is all right. She should sui-vey her house on all sides from a litt'a distance, and note if it is as nice as she coiild wish in respect to repairs, arrange- ment of curtains, blinds, &c. The forecourt and garden also must be trim and neat^ if not gay with flowers. Periodically the roof and gutters should be exa- mined, and all refuse matter removed, and free passage given for the rain-water. Even in London soft water may be enjoyed by the careful housewife who will take the trouble and go to the expense of starting a proper system of catching and preserving it. 37. First, she must purchase an ordinary water-butt, provided with a tap near the bottom, and with a removable Ud ; the water from the roof passes naturally through an ordinary pipe into this butt. A tank, about ten feet deep and four ■ feet in diameter, bricked and cemented, must be provided as near as possible to this, and from the water-butt to the tank a pipe is carried, one end of it being cemented in the tank, the other carried up to within six inches of the top of the* water-butt, and fitted with a rose. As soon as the water-butt is filled, the waterr flows down the pipe into the tank ; a common pump in the house brings it in- fresh and clean, ready for use. "But how clean?" asks an anxioi.s matron. " How can London roof washings be clean ?" For ten minutes after rain "sets.' in " tnrn the tao of your water butt, and allow the water to nm. In less thani this time a smart shower will have thoroughly cleansed your roof. Then stop- the flow, and allow the water-butt to fill; all the deposits in the water wiU be- lt.vii How to Keep a Linen-presa. left at the bottom of your butt, while the clean, pure, bright water will fill the tank; and this simple plan is all that is required to obtain the great luxury of i clean soft water. ! HOW TO KEEP A LITyTEN-PEESS. 1 38. As Mrs. Glasse said, first catch your hare, so I say, first fill your linen-press. Good linen, though expensive, is far more economical than is cheap linen. , 39. Sheets should be wider and longer than the bed they are used on, and should bo marked in pairs, as, "E. J. Brown, Pair 5," with date of the year. Tho ^eras should be sewn, not hemmed, with linen thread. They should be folded in pairs, and a ring of wide cotton elastic pa?sed round each pair; on this ring a card phould be sewn, with the mark repeated on it, the size of the sheet added, or, in small set of linen, the name of the bedroom, as " E. J. Brown, Pair G, 1871— 5pare room." This enables a new servant, or entire stranger, to select sheets required in a hurry; for it should be the chief aim of the mistress so to arrange ler house that even in her absence all should go on with regularity and order, ind that m case of illness everything may be found without her assistance. 40. PiLLOw-CASES.-These should be of fine linen, the cases to fit easily the billows, and made with a double hem, in which button-holes are placed Finely, rilled pillow-cases look very nice, but unless expense is of little object, should be ept for the use of the spare room. Pillow-cases should be arranged in half- ozens, and an elastic band and card placed round each parcel, with the mark, umber, and room to which they belong clearly written on the card, U ^^^^^-^'^OTHS.-These should be folded carefully, and each table-cloth lould have the band and card, with the mark, date, &c., and, in addiuon, the ze of the toble-cloth. By this plan the size is known at a glance, and all double and loss of time in unfolding and refolding avoided. 42 Table Napkixs should not be marked in ink, but the monogram worked in .sed embroidery. These are usually kept in a silk case, but may be tied by T' w ^^«°ribing them is sewn ; as, for instance, " Dinner " or Breakfast,""Dmner, best,'"'Dinner, daily." 4^ TOWELS should be arranged in the same way as the other parcels of linei • elastic band and card are convenient for these ; they should be ™d lu df-dozens, whether rough, bath, fine, or of medium quality. ^ ^ f Pleasanter to use than ordinary towels Thev ou d be of fine huckaback, and measure three yards each way; bit ^ stUl ^ ought m hot at the hour for rising. On leaving tho bath, one is entirelyviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. enveloped iu the warm sheet, and the process of drying is conducted with rapidity and comfort. 45. Servants' Sheets, Pillow-oases, Towels, &o., should be all arranged in the same manner, and attended to with equal care; they should be given out when required by the mistress, who should have all changes of bed-linen made with exact regularity. The old-fashioned plan was to change the upper sheet every fortnight, giving a clean upper-sheet, and taking the upper-sheet in place of the lower. This plan insures regularity of wear in the sheets. 46. Glass Cloths should be of good linen ; that sold for white roller blind* answers admirably, as it is soft, without fluff, and is not expensive. i 47. Tea Cloths are of coarser linen, but very coarse cloths are not economical, as they are clumsy, and often cause breakages. 48. Kitchen Cloths.—Eound towels are made of coarse linen, and what is called " Crash," respectively, A good supply of these is required in every house. 49. Dusters are sold at prices varying from sixpence to a shilling each, but: are far more effective when made of old chintz, old linings, &c., being softer, and; taking up the dust far better than the dressed stiff linen. Ugly, old-fashioned, chintz is often sold at threepence and foui-pence a yard, and when washed, makes > admirable dusters at this low price. 50. Every mistress who wishes to preserve her kitchen cloths from holes and i bui'ns will provide a kettle-holder for the kitchen, and a pot and saucepan- holder; these maybe bought at the door for threepence, or, made out of oldi pieces, will save many a good cloth and duster from being burnt, made dirty, orr destroyed. 51. The following list of Household LisENis intended forthe guidance of those' whose income is moderate. Fewer articles of each kind may comfortably answer' where strict economy is an object in starting ; but the numbers here given havej been found by experience to suit a household of medium income, keeping tw- servants:—Best Sheets, six pairs; spare room, two pairs ; servants, six pairs;; Pillow-cases, six best, twelve good, six common; Towels, twelve rough, twelvea coarse, twenty-four fine, twelve servants'; Bath Sheets, four ; Table-cloths, sin breakfast, six dinner, two best, six servants'; Table Napkins, twelve dinner/, twelve best, six breakfast; Glass-cloths, twelve; Tea-cloths, eighteen f Dusters, twelve; Round Towels, six; Kitchen-cloths, twenty-four Chamber-cloths, six; Pudding-cloths, six. A list of all the contents ol ■ the linen-press should be neatly entered in a book, with the marks carefull} copied, and a space left for remarks in time to come. Example : Six pain-'ix nouse-Linea. I sheets ; mark, E, J. B., 6, 1S71. 1 pair turned, 1877 ; 1 pair cut up into glasa- i cloths, ISSO. I 52. At the periodical counting of the linen, the mistress should carefully exa- Cmine each article, opening sheets, darning thin places with flax, not cotton, and should endeavour each year to add some article to her stock. 53. After the first six years, a pair of sheets and a table-cloth should be sought each year, at least, as these aro very expensive articles to purchase in juantity. 54. Blankets are usually kept in the linen-press when out of use. They should 36 tied in pairs, and sewn up in an old linen pillow-case, with a lump of camphor in sach parcel, the name of the room or bed to which they belong should be added i,o the card sewn to the case. ■ 55. CoLOUKED Table CLOTHS, when out of use, should be kept in the linen- ■ress. 1 56. We prefer the good old-fashioned plan of the mistress herself counting ■rer the clean linen, examining it for repairs, and replacing it in the linen-press, "My these means she sees exactly what is wanted to be repaired or renewed, and ; ■ able, by taking things in time, to get a great deal of needlework done at home "■ith perfect ease to herself and maids ; and by looking over the linen herself, ■le knows exactly what mending is to be done each week, and neither allows an Mle girl to impose upon her, nor, on the other hand, makes unreasonable demands l her housemaiden's industry. At certain seasons a week's rest from all neodle- : flork should be given to servants ; this is to enable them to make a dress, or ■ '»rn or alter their clothes to advantage, as they can do more in a week's steady ■ fcrk than in a hundred odds and ends of stolen time. ,.,J HOUSE-LINEN". lEiJ^ 67. Of course, the House and Body Linen is regularly mended every week, but aiJ'fcry housewife knows that there are times when linen should undergo a more jjmhorough repair "-ing than it receives weekly. The linen list should be fiislamined, the linen counted, the list corrected, and any new linen carefully t»e»de and marl:ed. Sheets should be turned sides and middle and re-hemmed, or ,,:,3lher re-sewn, for the hems of all house-linen should be sown, not hemmed, jjsdll tablecloths may be cut up into tray or lunch cloths, old finger-napkins be ;,>:i*|Tied and fringed out into d'oyleys for vegetables or for placing under pie- J,io3t|hes. '^^'^^'^ Chints! Hangings make excellent dusters, neatly hemmed round, and '^''jjS pretty fringed d'oyleys may be made out of small squares of Holland, either »iJl*fecbed or unbleached. Now tablecloths or dinner-napkins may be marked inz Philosopliy of Housekeeping. satin stitch embroidery in white or in ingi-ain colours. Do not forget to re-mark any linen that has had the hems cut off and the marks turned in. 59. For Marking with ink, use a quill pen and Bond's marking-ink. The writing should bo neat, and the word ironed as soon as written. For ironing after marking, a small board about a foot square should be used, and kept for the pujpose. It should be covered with a thick flannel, nailed on, and with a clean linen cover lacked on. The iron-rest must never be placed on the table, in case of the heat drawing the polish into blisters. To ascertain if an iron is hot, scatter a drop of water on it; the water should fizz and roll ofif in haste to escape. Always try the iron on a coarse cloth first before placing it over the name, and do not keep it on more than a second if the iron is hot, as it should be. Never mark clothes or linen when it is returned ^rom the wash, unless ■perfecily dry, which is not often the case. The ink runs on a damp surface, and an untidy mark appears in place of a neatly-written name. 60. As the House-LiNENrequires inspection and mending, so the body-linen of the household should undergo revision during leisurely winter days, and every article should be re-taped, re-buttoned, darned, and mended. Newsetsof clothessbould be cut out and made. It is best, in cutting out, to tear the skirts of chemises off from the piece, and use the remainder for the smaller parts, as sleeves, gores, bands, &c. Gores are usually cut from the upper part and added to the lower. In making under-clothing, whether by hand or by machine, care and exactness of detail should prevail. The machine-worker should take her place at the window, with the machine well cleaned, oiled, and worked for a few seconds without being threaded up. The seams should be prepared and handed to her. Let us take six chemises for an example. The gores must first be stitched, then felled, so the twelve gores must be handed to her lightly tacked in position. While the is stitching these, the fells must be turned down and tacked ; she then i^Wi these ; while felling, the finished gores are being tacked in their proper places,. and the chemise length closed on each side ; the twelve sides and the other sidoo of the gore ai-e then stitched and felled in due succession. The sleeves follow the same order, and the band, if plain ; if made with much tucking and stitchin much adornment with insertion, it is best to complete the bands before beginnin the skirts ; get suflBcient tucking done in strips from three to five tucks in a strip; arrange and basto them with the embroidery or lace at night, as the work is light and easy, and can be taken up or left at will. Then the stitching can be com< pleted altogether. The difficulties met with by some ladies in working theii.i sewing-machines are, we regret to say, very much their own fault; of course, w( do not mean to say that if a lady buys a common imitation of a good machine a' about a quarter of the real cost, she must not expect to have some trouble witl her "bargain " ; but a lady possessing a Willcox & Gibbs, a Wheeler & Wilsoni a Silencieuse, or a Little Wanzer, should not have anything but praise to giv" ie|^,, her iron seamstress. But no machine will work well without oil, and they ait require clean and kind treatment, to be kept under cover, to bo well oiled an.Housekeeping Accounts. wiped with a soft cloth, to have the needle set properly, the stitch and tension in unison, and the cotton or silic suitable to both the needle and the fabric In working upon dressed longcloth, it is well to soap the seams, as one would do in hand-sewing, to avoid breaking our hand-sewing needles, but the easiest mode is to ask the housemaid to wash out the longcloth, when torn into lengths, with plenty of soap and water, and to iron it out smoothly for cutting out; this will give a very pleasant softness to the work, and allow its being stitched very nicely. In working in thin sleezy fabrics, some machines draw the work in with the teeth of the feed-box; this is remedied by placing strips of paper below the work and stitching through all; the paper tears away very easily afterwards. Another fault common to machine-workers is the over-quick pace at which they drive the machine, a pace at which they can scarcely guide the work or see the stitches. It is the nature of women when riding and driving to go very fast; and so we drive on our machines, and are surprised that we cannot keep our stitching as even as we should like to see it. To cure this rapid driving we must practise working the machine slowly; braiding is good practice for this, and teaches one to manage a machine better than any other kind of work, 61. Hand-machines are exceedingly convenient when really good, as the Little Wanzer, &c. The work can be done easily and far more quickly than by hand, and it is very pleasant to sit at the table at work as in hand-sewing. 62. Attention to House-linen should comprise the careful inspection and repair of the muslin curtains, which should be "roughed" in October. These should be iajned, and lace sewn on where accidentally removed. Long curtains half worn- mt will make capital short muslin blinds; be sure to choose small designs in niying your curtains, if you destine them to this use in the future. Make wide lems if you wish brass rods to pass through them for window screens, and use )ateDt Valenciennes lace for trimming them; it washes admirably and wears irell. Stair-covers and holland dmggets, too, must be mended by prudent lousewives. HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUJSTTS. 63. One of the greatest trials of the young wife is the Account-book. This ook becomes a perfect bugbear to some ladies, who are yet perfectly capable of eeping a neat and regular debtor and creditor account if they could be once ■;arted with a regvilar system of account-keepiug. 6-t. Girls, whose monetary responsibilities have begun and ended with their uarterly allowance, find housekeeping accounts very difficult to manage pro- erly ; and although experienced matrons may smile at those words, a lesson easy account-keeping is not without value. 65. We must state at the beginning that altlio.igh we know of many other ethods of keeping accounts, yet we believe our method to be so easy, that we ■n conscientiously recommend it to housgsvivcs,rhilosopliy of Housekeeping. £11 2 9 66. A neatly-bound AccoUNT-BOOK of oblong shape, an ivory slate and pencil, and a card and pencil in the purse is the whole stock-in-trade as ucconnt-kec-pcr. The account-book is kept in the mistress's Davenport, the slate hangs up in the kitchen, and the card and purse are naturally in the pocket. 67. Every time any money is spent enter the item at once on the card, which is kept in place in the purse by an elastic passed over it. Every Saturday remove the card and insert a fresh one, copying the list on the card into the account- book. 68. Every Saturday morning receive the Household Books from the cook, who hands the slate, on which she has marked the sums paid at the kitchen door for parcels and sundries not put down in the weekly books; this statement includes all extras. To this add the housekeeping expenses: butcher, baker, milkman, gi'ocei', greengrocer, washing, &c., and add this up. 69. Then copy the sums written on the slate into the weekly account-book, of which we subjoin a specimen page. It will be observed that we "enter," r,r write down the sums paid out on the right-hand page only, reserving the k • hand page for sums received. 70. WEEKLY PAGE OF HOUSEKEEPING BOOK. Received. 1872. January. £ s. 23rd, Cheque 6 10 d. 0 £6 10 0 Paid. 1872, Janu Week ending 29th. £ s. Washing Oil Butcher 1 10 Baker 0 7 Grocer 0 12 Milk 0 7 Greengrocer 0 9 Parcels 0 2 Ale 0 17 Fi=:h 0 5 Balance 5 3 1 0 £G 10 23rd, Cheque 2oih, Cheque £ 3. d. 8 10 0 2 12 9 71. EXTIIAS. Wages:— £ s. Cook 4 10 Housemaid 4 0 Taxes 1 5 Parish rates , 1 7 £11xiil Housekeeping Accounts. st week, end id „ rd „ th „ fch „ la „ h „ :h „ :1a „ Mh „ Ub „ ith „ ;th ,, I 72. QUARTERLY ACCOUNT. House Expenses. Received. £ s. cl. ng 1st January , t]n n s,h • o ^ 15 J ■ " 6 10 0 2oj!i " eio o :. ^lo o i^jr^^^^"^ Vw S " .■ G 10 0 26th 610 0 5th March 6 10 0 12 h „ 6 10 0 19 h 6 10 0 2uth 6 10 0 Balance.. £8i 10 0 73. Extras. £ s. d. B January, Cheque 12 10 0 Paid. £ s. d. G 8 2 G 4 0 6 10 0 til „ „ a February th March ,, 2 12 9 8 10 0 7 6 6 4 18 0 £35 17 3 1 3 6 3 5 3 6 5 8 6 7 3 G 12 1 5 13 8 7 5 0 6 2 4 18 6 7 1 7 2 80 0 0 4 10 0 £84 10 0 £ s. d. Rent 12 10 0 Taxes 15 7 Rates 1 7 2 Wages 8 10 0 Coals 7 6 0 Wine 4 18 0 £35 17 3 |74. Each double page is complete in itself. At the end of every quarter or rteen weeks enter the totals of sums i-eceived and paid, giving the dates of fb week, as above shown. It will be seen that the balance of each week shown on the week's account, and the quarterly balance is struck on the ^e which shows the quarter's total expenses. Every week you put down jra expenses, as taxes, or wages (for which a cheque or money is received), Ithe right-hand page, entering in the same line on the Ze/f-hand page the Ique for taxes, wages, &c., or whatever the item is ; thus the actual expense pown each week, independently of all sums given and paid foi- extras othev housekeeping. 76. Besides which, you should take out a " schedule" of expenses ; that is, I a list every thirteen weeks of the sums paid to each tradesman, so that you I tell at a glance what the quarterly cost of every article consumed is. But Account-KEEPINO does not begin and end with the account-book. Everyxiv I Philosophy of Housekeeping. tradesman's book should be compared with the cook's slate or tally, or tl brought with the meat, as in the butcher's case, for instance; then the i mu5t be added up, or the statements verified by tbo rea<ly-reckoner, a- ladies are clever enough to keep reckoning tables in their heads as one doc^ ' multiplication tables, 77. The Meat Tickets should be kept on a hook in the kitcheD,^nd verified by the mistress when comparing the weight charged with that sent in. . The cook n jist of course weigh the moat before allowing the butcher to leave the door; she- will then be able to see if the weight is correct, and make the butcher alter the ticltf. or take back the joint if the weight is not correct. Groceries must al- ' weighed, as well as bread, and, indeed, all goods sold by weight. Wa should be counted over by the housemaid on Monday morning in presence of the mistress, who should enter the items in the washing-book, and, on the return of the linen, the housemaid should compare the quantities returned with the book before airing and putting the linen away, PURCHASING. 78. A few Rkmabks as to the best Modes and Places of Buying artic^ Domestic Consumption may be useful here. 79. It is not enough to have plenty of money ; one must try to become a reallj clever buyer. A "clever" buyer is not one who beats down the price of ever article until she is well known, and prices are put up to come down to th smallest value only. She must know the real value of every article at each se of the year, and either give that exact value or know how to go without j fully, or to make up by purchasing an equivalent at less cost. American won are wonderfully clever buyers: they know exactly what they want, and will' ■it. Before purchasing, they inquire at many shops various prices, or, as quaintly say, go "pricing, not shopping." 80. The Civil Service Co-operative Association is invaluable to the members i the friends of members possessing tickets. These tickets cost 5s. annually, are renewed at the end of February in each year. It is now considered a g favour to obtain one of these tickets, as the number is restricted. At the st every article of grocery, housekeeping, and drapery requirements is sold at lit more than cost price, while the shops in connection with the stores allow memh' 1.7 20 25, and 30 per cent, discount off the sums spent with them. Of cour all'this is the advantage of the ready-money system of cash payments ; but' 'saving is undoubted, at.d one has the great satisfaction of feeling that e? article one has is paid for. In short, whether for making or for mending, stores, and shops in connection with the stores, are invaluable. 81. When the weather allows of meat hanging, and the Uirder is commodioXT Daily House-work. t is well to piii-chase a week's consumption at once, and hang the articles until n prime condition. DAILY HOUSE-WOBK. 82. The Daily Duties of the House Servants are as follow:— t83. The beds are stripped, and slops emptied in all the rooms. Then bed- aking follows; then the sitting-room not used for breakfast must be swept, iusted, and arranged; and then the routine cleaning of the day must follow, very household has good reasons for each day's work. The following regulation as been thought to be a good guide :— ! Monday—One bedi-oom ; washing. j Tuesday—Spar© room and library. ' Wednesday—Dining-room ; ironing. j Thursday—Mistress's bed and dressing rooms. , Friday—Drawing-room and one bedroom. I Saturday—Plate, stairs, and sundries. 84. The Nurse cleans her own nursery, night nurseiy, and her own bedroom, ie Cook undertakes steps and hall, passages, kitchen, larder, scullery, and wash- buse, and downstairs closets, and, by armJigemeiU with the mistress at time of ing, cleans the dining-room and helps to make the beds. 85. WiNDCW-CLEANiNG is also a matter of special arrangement. The cook .nswers the door" until twelve o'clock, after which hour the housemaid is pposed to be dressed, and should be, if she is quick and clever at her work, e cook should clean her own bedroom, even if shared by the housemaid ; and |e housemaid is bound, by kitchen etiquette, the unspoken tradition of the spit, make the tea at breakfast, to arrange and make tea at the afternoon meal, d to lay the cloth for the kitchen supper. Tbis rule has originated, no doubt, the kindly feeling which prompts those who have no cooking to do to prepare 'e meals for those whose work is almost entirely cooking, and who are, (rtfcjrefore, little disposed to do so for themsolves. jjB86. It is well, when engaging Servants, to mention all the rules that a ptress considers best for the happiness of her household, and these detaiU inot be too much studied by those who hold the reins. A holiday every six 3ks should be given to each servant, and by turns they should be allowed go out on Sunday evenings. Somo families can manage to allow one lid the Sunday morning, the other the Sunday evpt\ing, but this cannot rays be done. The wages should be paid regularly upon quarter-day—the |h March, 21st June, 29th September, and 25th December,—upon which day a nice Christmas-box should bo added to encourage good service promote kindly feelings. It is best to provide tea, sugar, beer, andxvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. wasLing, unless washing is done at homo, when, of course, it is done by ^ maids and laundress. If servants work hard they require some ale, and hy providing a cask of good ale, and putting it in the cook's charge, they have suQiciont, and there is no objectionable calling of public-house boys for orders or beer-cans. The ale should be computed to last a certain time, and the bro r be ordered to call at regular intervals. Women servants are allowed a pint aud men servants a quart per diem, and a gallon over should be allowed in small households for waste in constant drawing. The family, if ale-drinkers, should have a separate cask, as it is impossible to ascertain the right quantity to be used when friends drop in. 87. The USUAL Allowance for Servants is :— Vegetables chiefly potatoes and greens. Ale or stout: men, 1 quart; maids, 1 pint per diem. Washing, from Is. to Is. 6d. Tea, ^ lb. per week. Sugar, h lb. per week. Butter, ^ lb. per week. Meat, 3^ lb. per week. Bread, 1 lb. per diem ; | lb. cheese per week. Soap, 1 lb. per week for house-cleaning, and 1 cake for personal use, 88. Tea and bread and buttei-, or bread and preserve, ai-e the scrra; ordinary breakfast. 89. Dinner, hot meat and vegetables, alternately with cold meat pudding; but a considerate mistress will consult her servants' health and own interest, by giving them aiT agreeable change of food. 90. Tea and bread and butter for tea. 91. Supper, bread and meat or bread and cheese. 92. Coffee makes an agreeable change with tea, and should be occasional).'' flUowed in the proportion of ^ lb. per head per week. 93. Care and economy without meanness, on the part of a mistress, will more to correct the extravagance of servants than any precept. If a maid sees h mistress carefully throw up the ashes, put out unnecessary candles, or gasligh and economize properly, she will try also to save her mistress's property. 94. We think that by laying .aside all pretence, and being open and hen with servants, we make them careful and exact too. Where the mistress is gi to changing her servants,' complaiuing of them, &c., the fault is usualli/ her o The fault is with the driver, not with the horses, who, in light but firm han would run well together, and do their work well and quickly.xvii Daily House-Work. 95. Servants should never be reproved before each other or before anyone. If there is occasion for more than a word of direction, a lady should ring for her I servant and speak kindly and seriously to her, showing a willingness to help her, though by no means slighting over the subject in question, or allowing any : timidity of demeanour to appear. 96. Domestic Quarrels often embitter the peace of households and c&use dis- i missals ; these can be quelled by a gentle firmness and the following rules :—Never ; listen to what one servant says of another ; never ask a question about a new com'er of the old trusted servant; if angry voices and loud talk reach your ear, ring for the I delinquents, and before both say, " I have no wish to interfere with your quarrels ; j say and do what you please ; but / must never hear a sound of dispute or anger ; in this house." The utter absurdity of being alloivecl to quarrel will, in most j cases, prevent a repetition of the offence ; and as this is a tried recipe for domestic j broils, we give it verbatim. 97. But it is only a gentlewoman who can say this—one who never is betrayed ; into an angry word or cross retort; example and precept must go hand in hand. Our experience is, that in life what we believe people to be, we riiake them. "1 believe you to be honest," has kept many a poor tempted soul from evil, and it is the duty of mistresses to guard their household as they would their children from opportunities of doing wrong. Young girls should not be sent out late at night to post letters or to fetch beer; should be advised to put by a little of each quarter's money in the post-office savings-bank ; should be counselled as to what is nice to buy in the way of dress ; should never be given old finery ; should be lent nice books, not only i-eligious but amusing works ; should be led to take an interest in the garden, or in the growing flowers, the birds or animals of the house; and in the children, for if the children are not utterly spoiled, and the I maids not utterly bad, they cannot help taking an interest in the nursery. 98. If " suspicion haunts" the mistress's mind (we are supposing her to be a sensible, kind-hearted person), her best plan is to change her servants; she : cannot be comfortable with them, and there is usually more or less ground for : these doubts. A mistress cannot follow her stores into the kitchen and see that every ounce is carefully used, but she can resist the continual petty larceny, which destroys all her attempts at economy and heavily burdens her purse. 99. Ekgaging Servants.—This important business is usually thought a pleasing , excitement by one class of mistresses, who are constantly changing, and who do I not know how to appreciate a good servant; or a dreadful trouble and worry by : those who are idle or careless. ^ 100. If a lady will reflect upon the importance of engaging a good servant, she 1 will hesitate before taking a written character, unless under very exceptional j circumstances. There are four ways of obtaining servants : inquiring of tradesxviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. persons; ndvertising for servants; answering advertisements; and applying at servants' offices. 101. When servants are obtained through TnADESSfEN, which is one of the easiest modes, there are some disadvantages. The servant is placed under favour to her patron, and in case of a dishonest butcher, for example, would be expected to shut her eyes to short weights, inferior meat, &c. Then she frequently has acquaintances in the neighbourhood, or has been servant of some of one's friends : two objections to begin with, and many others will suggest themselves. Adveh- TisiNG for servants costs from three to five shillings, according to the length of advertisement, and entails remaining at home during the hours stated. 102. This, where practicable, is an excellent plan, for when the lady sees a ser- vant whose appearance pleases her, whose recommendations are apparently good, and whose "character" is not " short," she can enter into details of the work, show the servant the house, the rooms, and ascertain whether the arrangements, it carried out, are likely to be permanent. The servant, on her side, can judge of the kind of place and mistress, and decide for or against it at once, instead of in a " month's time." 103. But, as every plan has its drawbacks, if evilly disposed, the servant about to leave can prejudice the new comer against the place. 104. Answering advertisements is by no means a certain way of obtaininL- servants, and should not be resorted to when time is an object. 105. Applying at servants' offices and homes is one of the best plans ; and at some of these, ladies can comfortably see and engage servants. The characters are all inspected by the managers ; but as, with so large a number, the minute points which so particularly affect the comfort of a household cannot be deter- mined, a mistress should never thiuk any trouble too great which allows a personal interview with the late mistress of the proposed maid. OBSEEVATIOWS ON" SERVANTS, WITH REGARD TO THEIR COMING AND GOING. 106. "WARNlNas on either side are usually for that'day month on which the warning was given, and it is well for a mistress to begin at once to look out for a good maid to replace the going-out servant. 107. An excellent place to meet with respectable servants is the Soho Bazaar, whore one can see them quietly ; and the terms are only five shillings, paid when one is suited with a servant. It is well at the time of hiring to state distinctly the exact nature of the service required. For example, if a cook is wanted to undertake the dining-room, hall, and passages, it should be distinctly statedXIX Observations on Servants, with regard to their Coming and Going. that such is her work. If the housemaid is to wait on the lady, it should be named, and so on through all the duties of each place. 108. And at the time of hiring, it is important to speciry the holidays, time allowed on Sundays, and the following particulars, so that a servant clearly understands what she is to expect, and enters upon her duties clearly under, standing the kind of situation she accepts. The wages should ba increased I yearly, and every encouragement given to good servants. 109. After warning has been given on either side, the mistress, even if annoyed with her maid, should behave with quiet courtesy towards her ; not, as we have Iremarked some mistresses do, treat her as if she had committed a crime. A change may be desirable for many reasons, although it is not possible to over- estimate a quiet, well-conducted servant, who is attached to her mistress, and who wUl not leave her even for fairer prospects and a more luxurious home. 110. In EsoAGiifG Servants state- Ill. The wages given now, and what i-ise may bo expected. 112. The time on Sunday allowed for church or chapel, &c. 113. Inquiries to be made of the lady who gives the character as to " honesty, sobriety, cleanliness, als> if she i& industrious, neat, tidy in person, and in work, regular and systematic." 114. If a Cook, ask particulars of soups, roasting and boiling, pastry-making, and general care and economy. 115. If a Norse, temper, kindness and watchful care, and experience. 116. If a Housemaid, care of stoves, ornaments, careful, and neat. 117. If a Lady's-maid, clever hairdresser and dressmaker, discreet and quiet; land so on through the various classes of servants required. 118. Nj^mber of years in place. 119. From whom taken. 120. Reason for leaving. 121. Any particular I'ault or peculiarity. 122. When the servant is engaged, the mistress should enter these particulars, together with the date of entry of service, amount of wages, &o., in a book kept for that purpose.xz Philosophy of Housekeeping, 123. By the Style of House, and the class of ]a(3y, one can jurlge of the sen'ant'g character, whether the lady gives a true character or not. High praise is oftea accorded by a mistress who does not know what a good servant is, and applies particularly to cooks, for hero taste and style of serving differ essentially. As a rule, a lady is safe in taking a servant who has lived over two years in family in the same position as her own, neither above nor below it, of whom the mistress distinctly and clearly states that she is honest, sober, clean, and indi trious ; the mistress's appearance being quiet, ladylike, and tidy ; the house well cared for and neat. It is a great advantage to know something of the past histo" of one's servants, and inquiries should bo made respecting the other places hel by the servant. 121. A Mistress is often shy about telling a new servant her ways and wishes- allows herself to be as indulgent at first as she is strict and fault-finding whe~ used to her new maid. Now, if this plan were reversed, and a lady had the courage to be strict and particular when the maid is at her best, and in her most pain- taking humoiu-, a servant would naturally faU into the right way of pleasing b being useful to her mistress. 125. Gentleness, kindness, and firmness are the qualities required in a mistress^ with a thorough practical knowledge of what are her servants' duties. "We ma here remark that those households are best conducted where the mistress neve converses with her servants; never speaks but to gently give an order, ask a question, or say good morning and evening to her maids. Of course, this doe^ not apply in times of sorrow for the servants, or with a general servant, who ' depending on her mistress for all occasions of speaking, or to old, well-trie servants, but it is a safe rule for the Mistress. 126. When two SERVANTSare kept, the mistress has more time at her disposal but should nevertheless take a close and watchful interest in the work of tha house, inspecting the work when finished, and remarking on badly-cleaned roomsj. neglected corners, and seeing that the fault is repaired at the moment. B never passing over a fault during the first twelve months, but kindly and gontl pointing it out, there will be no need for a word of correction afterwards. ■ 127. When Servants first enter a service they naturally try their best to please; and require only teaching the "ways" of the family. They soon see if "mi is " paiiiicular" or no, and whether they are ruled by a careful, clever handJ or by a careless, idle, anyhow mistress, and will act accordingly. 128. What has passed into a proverb respecting the master's eye equally appli to the mistress of a household. Her observant glance ought to take in, an the mind note, every detail of housewifery. She should in herself be an exampl to her maids of neatness, cleanliness, and order. " So particular," should be tho verdict of her handmaidens. A woman who does her duty to her husband anxxi 4 Observations on Servants, with regard to their Coming and Going. household must be particular, must be strict and watchful. At the same time, this care and strictness does not preclude her being gentle in manuer and word, kind and sympathizing with her servants in illness or trouble, tending them and helping them when such assistance is needed, 129. And this kindness, this help, can bo given only by a careful, watchful misti'ess,—a woman whose life is regulated by strong principles, and by love of order. 130. If Waste is allowed to run riot in a household,—if articles of daily food are asted, badly bought, badly cooked, badly carved, and made the least of,—there . be no funds left in the mistress's hands with which to pay for the doctor her indness would call in to her sick servant. Cai'e and thrift mean poiver to help (hers; economy in daily life permits good actions in life's trials. Good house, 'fery comprises the duty of woman. Pages might be written upon this subject^ ut a few hints will sulBce to prove this to a thoughtful woman. 131. The Washing of a family should be put out where one servant alone is apt, as we have stated ; but many clever managers find time to do all the family ashing at home, and yet are not "in a muddle," as it is expressively termed, pon washing-day; the damping, folding, and ironing being done by the mis- ress, the hard labour by the maid. With the help of one of Bradford's washing- achines this labour is much reduced, and the wringer and mangle are equally andy. 132. But unless it is ahsolutely necessaiy, no lady should attempt to have the Thole of the washing done at home when one servant alone is kept. 133. In the Evening the mistress should only make the tea and attend to her iband ; the last thing at night she should inspect the doors and the whole of ilhe basement, noting every want of cleanliness in the scullery or wash-house, Lnd ascertaining that all be secure, and the plate in her room before she retires |o rest, which should be not later than eleven o'clock ; for, unless she is allowed \ certain season of rest, it is impossible for a woman, however willing, to rise at jcven, and fulfil the innumerable duties of a mistress. Many of the duties of a ni^tress, as occasional cooking, washing-up, &c., may be omitted when there is m experienced general servant, or where two maids are kept. We may mention hat, as it is desirable that a lady's hands should alwajs look white and nice, 'loves should be worn during dusting operations and household work, whenever lossiblo. Household gloves should be a quarter size larger than those ordinarily Ton, and have a loose cuff sewn to them, with an elastic at top to protect the leeves. 134. In Fasiilies where there are children and no nurse of any kind is kept, he mother is the ntirse, and should not attempt to pay and receive formal visits, but .Stxzii Philosophy of Housekeeping. content herself with domestic duties until she is in a position to have her after- noons, at least, free. Nothing is moro trjing to the health and temper than being constantly called away from domestic duties by frivolous and inconsiderate visitors. 135. With the Care of her CmLDnKX, their dally walks, and the superintendence of their clothing, the mistress will find but little time for assisting the general servant, who will have, in addition to the work we have mentioned, the prepara- tion of the nursery dinner, and the carrying of water, both hot and cold, to the nurseries, with the cleaning and care of the rooms used by the children. THE CHILDREN. 136. The first point to be considered is their Health. Where it is possible, large airy rooms at the top of the house should be given up to the babies. A day and night nursery are required, and the night nursery should be the larger of the two. It should contain single iron beds or cots, placed upon well-scrubbed boards ; a strip of carpet or long rug should be placed at each bedside to enable the little feet to alight from bed safely. Slippers should bekept under each little bed, and the children taught never to go a step without them. The bed should consist of a hard mattress covered with two folds of blanket and a pillow, the ordinary bolster being dispensed with ; of course a pair of sheets and one, two, or three blankets, according to the season. A chair for each child, a washstand, and a hip-bath should constitute the rest of the furniture, though in large rooms a wardrobe and chest of drawers may be placed. Every room occupied by children should have a fireplace and chimney to allow of ventilation during the night. A large window is also requisite. In winter it is well to carpet the bed- room, but this should be removed at the spring cleaning. Once a week at least the bedroom fire should be lighted during the winter. If bedrooms, whether for children or adults, are scrubbed in the winter time, it should be done early in the morning, a good fire lit in the room, and be perfectly dry before being slept in. No flowers of any kind or growing plants should be placed in the bedrooms of children at night. 137. The Children's Day Nursery should also be airy, well-ventilated, and kept perfectly clean. It is well to have as little furniture as possible; a round table and chairs are all that is really wanted if there are good deep cupboards in the room ; if not, an armoire of some kind must be provided for children's toys and nurse's tea and breakfast service, and sundries that should always stand in order under a good nurse's cai-e. On a high shelf, or, better still, locked up, but handy, should be a few simple medicines for children—castor-oil, rhubarb, audi magnesia, and a pot of jam to help these down. Then a box should contain lint, strapping-plaster, and court-plaster ; "Jones's Epsom" is the best, as it neither: inflames a wound nor does it easily wash off. A pair of scissors should be kept' in this box, and never used for other purposes ; a neat roll of old linen, a roll ofThe Children. new flannel, and some bandage strips should also be placed close at hand. Nurse should be provided with two enamelled saucepans, with a block-tin kettle with neat jars, containing sugar, pearl barley, Embden grits, mustard, linseed, and linseed-meal. She should keep a bottle of camphorated spirits, and of ipecacuanha wine ; also among her medicines she should have a store of night- lights, a food-warmer, and some candles; a tin of plain biscuits may also be placed in her charg;e. 138. Both Nurse and Mother should inspect the stores once a week, and see that nothing is wanting at any time that would be required at night in a hurry. A.n old worn knife or a palette knife and some spoons are required for plasters and poultices, and should be at hand. 139. Children require to run and skip, dance and jump, and to take good walks. Children's nursery hours should be as follows :—All out of bed at seven, all Jressed and sitting down to breakfast at eight, nine o'clock should see the little troop out of doors in garden, in park, or on country roads. Two hours' walk in the morning and two in the afternoon is necessary in fine weather. After the iOth of October all children under six should be indoors after three o'clock ; this ule should be continued until spring days again come round. 140. Dinner at 1, tea at 4.30, bed at 6 or 7, according to the ages of the jhildren. 141. A glass of cold water morning and night is the best medicine they can ake. 142. The Morning Bath for healthy children of four or five years of age should 3e of cold water in summer and tepid in winter. It is an excellent plan to fill a arge brown pickle-jar with bay salt and Tidman's sea-salt in equal parts, and to ill up with soft water, and tie a muslin cap over the jar; pour off the water ivory morning into the bath, adding fresh until all the salt is melted, when we nust begin again. A hip-bath should be used for the morning bath, and the ihild rapidly sluiced all over, and then enveloped in a large well-aired sheet of ine huckaback, not less than two yards square ; rub quickly but not roughly, ind see that the little limbs glow before you part with them. Then quTckly Iress the child in woll-aired clothes, and brush the hair, clean the teeth, and hear he morning prayer before setting him to table. 143. Breakfast should be ready, for many children are so constituted as to be Jross, because they feel ill, before breakfast: such children cannot bear the sinking eel.ng caused by want of food. If such there be in a family, and the number of ittle ones prevents the breakfast being ready for all du-ectly, give the child a srust of broad or a biscuit, and it will play happily until summoned to its sreakfast.xxlv Philosophy of Housekeeping. CHILBLAINS. 144. Between three and four of a cold winter's night, the Chilblains begin their torture, and the poor little things to cry with pain. The circulation is in fault, and the vital energy must be increased in order to cope with the depressing influence of the cold. The child should take strengthening medicine, as quinine or steel (under advice, of course), or stout or port wine at eleven o'clock in the day, and the feet must be kept unchilled by plenty of exercise. If chilled after a walk, getting wet unavoidably, or after a long journey, the little feet must be judiciously unchUled by placing them in lukewarm water and bay salt, and gradually adding warmer water until quite hot, over blood heat; let the feet remain in this until the water cools perceptibly (it is easy to amuse the child with pretty stories), then carefully dry and wipe with a soft towel, and then gcntlj rub tVe feet with the hands until they are " bone dry;" this must be done the very day the cLi:i a;)pears, or it will be more dlflScult to cure, and must be repeated every other night if the chills do not disappear. 145. For the chilblains, when they have been allowed to get to the irri- tating stage, there are several remedies—one to be had of Keating, chemist, S<. Paul's Churchyard, called Eidolon, and the other, which instantly stops th3 itching, is as follows :—For unh-olen chilblains only: | oz. hydrochloric aoil, diluted, 6 oz. camphor water, 30 drops hydrochloric acid, diluted. This recipe contains a deadly poison, and must never be used except by experisnced and responsible hands—indeed, none but a mother should apply it. Any one may use the Eidolon, which is equally effective. These remedies are for unhrohen chilblains only. When chilblains do manifest themselves, the best remedy, not only for preventing them ulcerating, but overcoming the tingling, itching pain, and stimulating the circulation of the part to healthy action, is the liniment of belladonna (hoo drachms), the liniment of aconite {o7ie drachm), carbolic acid (ten drops), to collodion flexile (one oii.7ice), painted with a camcl's- hair pencil over the surface. But for broken chilblains, alas ! what can we do ? The only course is perfect rest, perfect warmth, and the application of a new skin. New skin can be formed of the inner skin of an unboiled egg, or of gold- beater's skin. When friction is to be avoided, these thin skins should be covered by court plaster cut longer than the wound, which should be entirely covered with the thin skin. Children should wear lamb's-wool stockings and thick boots (or cork soles), laced up the centre, or buttoned ; elastic sides should never bo worn by anyone suffering from chilblains. When the chilblains vesicate, ulcerate, or slough, it is better to omit the aconite, and apply the other components of the liniment without it. The collodion flexile forms a coating or protecting film, which excludes the air, whilst the sedative liniments allay the irritation, generally of no trivial nature. For chapped hands we advise the free use of glycerine and good olive-oil in the proportion of two parts of the former to four of the latter; after this has been well rubbed into the hands, and allowed to remain for a little time, and the hands subsequently washed with Castile soap and tepid water, weXXT Spring Cleauing. recommend the belladonna and collodion flexile to be painted, and the protective film allowed to permanently remain. Obstinate cases are occasionally met with which no local application will remedy, until some disordered state of the system is removed, or the general condition of the health improved. SPBIITG CLEAisriisrG-. 146. In spring and autumn more extended cleaning operations go on, and the time for these periodical cleanings is usually May and October. All white- washing, painting, and general repairs should be done in the spring, and during the cleaning carpets should be taken up, well beaten, mended, and turned so as to bring the worn pieces out of sight. Care must be taken to match the design of the carpet. All ornaments should be carefully washed, cleaned, or relacqnored. Curtain-poles taken down, washed with vinegar, and rubbed bright with furniture- polish, page Ixiii. Looking-glasses cleaned, see page Ixiv, Chairs and sofas re- covered or invested with loose chintz covers. Paper rubbed down with the clean rumb of stale quartern loaves. Ornaments placed in fire-stoves, and white urtains bung up in place of the damask or chintz, which should be well haken, folded in large folds, with a couple of handfuls of dry bran laid between ch fold, and a piece of camphor placed in the drawer or box in which they ire kept. 147. All woollen antimacassars should be replaced by lace or cotton couvrettes, 148. When carpets are re-laid, the colours are greatly revived by adding a small quantity of ox-gall to warm water and washing them over with the mixture: plenty of air must be admitted after this, as the smell is very strong, 149. Locks should now be taken off, cleaned, and oiled, bell-wires adjusted, nd bell-handles tightened, if necessarJ^ 150. The chimney of each room should be swept, and care taken to see that he brush is sent up through the top of the chimney. 151. In olden days, all fires save the kitchen were left oflf onthe twenty-fifth of arch, and the house-cleaning began as soon after as possible. Now, in these egenerate days, it is not until May that many among us begin to turn the house t of windows. The first fine week after May 1st is a good rule, but a fine hot pril will sometimes tempt us to begin before the sun gains much power. At the d of March all the blankets that can be spared should be washed and hung out the brisk wind to dry, then thoroughly aired by a good fire for twelve hours, d stored in a dry place, 152. The first thing to be done when beginning a " spring clean," whether in arch, April, or May, is to ascertain what pieces of furniture want renovating,Xxvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. and if any require to be taken from home, they should be sent off at once. Then the sweep must bo consulted, and ordered to come on the most convenient days. If the family are away, all the rooms can be swept in one day, but if not, the arrangements must be altered by circumstances. To '' begin with the top floor and go down " is not a bad rule. Before the sweep's arrival all carpets must come \ip, and go away or out to be beaten ; all ornaments must bo removed, pictures taken down, and looking-glasses covered. All furniture should be covered with sheets or with dusting-sheets. 153. After the sweep's necessary but grimy labours, all traces of his presenca must be got rid of, and the room swept totvards the fireplace, and all dirt taken up, and the stove cleaned. The walls, if panelled, are washed down ; if papered, either rubbed down with stale bread or cleaned by passing a clean cloth down them, taking care to remove all cobwebs from comers. In cleaning with bread act as follows:— 154. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a stale loaf of white brr into eight pieces. Take the crust into your hand, and, beginning at the tof^ ; the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the crumb ; do not cross or go upwards ; wipe about half a yard at a stroke, and when all the upper part is done, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. It must 1 o done with great lightness, or the dirt will adhere to the paper, but if propc done the paper looks like new. Then the floor is scrubbed with sand and 1 water—no soap, no soda—and allowed to dry. The fumitvire is thoroug: cleansed while the floor is drying. 155. Those articles which are French-polished should be washed with wg-k vinegar and water, and the following polish used to them :—3 oz. of common be wax, 1 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of curd soap, 1 pint ot turpentine, 1 pint of boiled s water ; mix these, adding the water when cold, shake well, and keep for 48 houi Apply with a flannel, and polish first with a duster, and then with a silk hand- kerchief. 156. The furniture should be replaced in position, or changed to suit the altered room, which looks differently with white curtains and dressed-up fireplace. The fireplace may be concealed by a card-table, with a handsome cover of cloth embroidered with some pretty design. Firegrate adornments are to be avoided by chilly persons, whose health demands that every wet evening, every co evening, shall see a cheerful fire in the salon. 157. Very pretty modes there are, however, of ornamenting grates and fi places. Wo all know the eternal crinoline, fringed out and adorned with ivy and re or artificial flowers. The blank space filled by looking-glass, with fender of fe and pot plants in front, is nice but ejrpensive ; but the trellis basket-work sere RDd fender is within the reach of j^ll. The price, to begin with, is moderate, aSpring Cleaning. a trellis is soon covered with creepers, nasturtium, jasmine, c'.ematis. The front r fender may be filled with green moss and cut flowers, or by pot' containing rowing plants. 158. Winter Curtains must be put awa}' carefully, after hanging out in the air or three or four days if in fine weather, bringing them in at ni}>ht. On the day you tepd to pack them away, beat them lightly with a thin stick, and fold them refully in as large folds as your store-place will allow, scatter a handful of bran one-dry) between each fold, and if placed in a large drawer or chest, add a bi^' mp of camphor. 159. Lined Chintz Curtains should be treated in a similar way, but do notre- .lire the camphor. The bran cleans both chintz and damask curtains in a wonderful nner, and there is but one thing to remember, that you must carefully shake t the bran when you draw them out again. The nicely washed and mended uslin curtains should hang in their due place, the pictures be replaced in posi- n. And now we turn to the blinds, a vexed subject in many households. I netian blinds are in question, they want simply washing, perhaps repainting, e tapes renovating, not along business in willing hands; but if the blinds be ite holland, on rollers, it is sad work. First, to get the blinds from the rollers, en to wash them and iron them straight, then to replace them, and then to find at no one in the house can pull them up straight. Roller-blinds that go up with entle spring, and come down with a gentle click-click are best; but if they are t quite clean and new, they should be taken down and made into nice glass- ths, for which they are well adapted, and new ones placed upon the rollers. 160. The Outside of a House, both back and front, is an index to the character its mistress. Every room should have a window neatly dressed with curtains blinds clean, neat, and hanging straight, 161. The Steps should rival the snow in whiteness, and be fresh whitened U)j. 162. The Bedrooms require a few words. The bedding should be taken out o rs, if possible, and well beaten and brushed, the bedstead taken to pieces, tber of wood or of iron, and well washed with hot water and soap. When te dry the bedding should be replaced, and the summer bed-curtains be nged with the bed-furniture. An opportunity should be taken of sending all nned goods to be repaired, as cans, baths, hot-water cans, &c. All the glass extra china should be washed or dusted in the china closet, the list gone over, all missing articles accounted for and replaced as soon as possible. 63. A few items of housewifery may be jotted down here. Have the pianos d as soon as the house-cleaning is over ; oil all the door locks, keys, and bolts every month. Oil all door and window lunges. Have every trifling repairxxvill Philosophy of Housekeeping. mended at once, and paid for at once ; this saves much trouble, and is cousidet ably cheaper than having carpenter's and glazing jobs booked, 1C4. Turn out every box, cupboard, and corner in the house-cleining. Separ all stores required for or likely to be useful in needlework, and keep these in f rolls or parcels in a drawer known as the work-drawer. Wash out and fill inkstands once a week. Few writers like much ink in the inkstand ; half an in deep is quite enough for ordinary writing for a week, and more than enough spill if thei'e is an accident with the inkstand. 165. Warm skirts and cloth jackets should be bung out in the air, and w beaten with a light cane, and stored with plenty of camphor in presses or box Muslin dresses and petticoats should take the place of the heavier garments, a notable housewives prepare in May their summer costumes for the children and fi themselves. The little ones look best and are happiest in holland frocks a: blouses, or knickerbocker suits of brown holland. Boys of five and six w require four suits a week of these. Little girls are more reasonable, and can kept in nice order with three suits weekly. We are, of course, speaking £ children who are allowed to play about a garden and enjoy themselves. WM piquS, nicely braiHed, makes good best summer clothing for both boys and gir Straw hats for both, but while girls want pretty little wreaths of flowers, a pi ribbon does for Master Jack ; but that ribbon should match the little bow beneath his clean linen collar. 166. Muslin, holland, or print costumes are nice for morning wear, for ladi costumes should always be made in accordance with the time they ai"e to be wo Many ladies in the country do not change their dress until late in the day ; tl morning costume should then be made in dressy style ; but if it is discard( before the children's early dinner, it should be as plain as possible, althouf abvays neat and pretty. 167. All cloth, merino, and stuff dresses which are worn daily should be h out for one day in each week in the open air, beaten lightly with a cane, and w brushed, folded, and put away. This cleansing and rest keeps the dress fr and pleasant, and makes it look better and wear longer than if this little care neglected. 168. A fresh ribbon, a new collar, some variety in one's ornament, makes refreshing change to the eyes of our family. Variety should be studied for t sake of pleasing and cheering those who work for us and with us. 169. In tho evening various amusements should bo allowed in a family—mu cards, reading, games, such as chess, draughts, jacquet, backgammon, &c. good romp with the little ones is a healthy amusement for every one whoThe General Servant. n in, and most beneficial to the little darlings, who go merrily to Bedfordshire." 170. If guests are expected at any time, rooms should be well aired, and jrything placed in readiness; chimneys aired by good fires, so as to have smoke to dishearten the arriving guests, or to blacken the dainty toilet •angements. 171. M'ltton and beef should hang for ten days if the weather be cold, and a week under any conditions. 172. In order to allure guests to our table we must give them a good dinner; more, we must have and enjoy the reputation of a good cook, a good ar, a carefully-appointed table, and quiet, clever waiting. The damask lecloth must be spotless, the napkins folded in the last mode, flowers arranged the table with or without the dessert. The glasses should be brilliant, the er well polished, and plenty of light, either gas, lamp, or, best of all, wax ts. The waiting should be performed noiselessly. Unless men-servants are ■oughly well drilled, it is better to dispense with their services; at any rate, ot employ anyone from the stable to assist the footman. The aroma arising the ordinary duties of coachman, groom, or stable-boy is too plainly eptible in a dining-room, and is very trying to delicate persons. A neat, looking housemaid is far pleasanter than such " grooms in waiting." I 173. That the dinner may be perfect, we must study what is seasonable as well ^hat is nice. Good housewives will replace all glass and china in fitting order 1 day following any little party. Fruit should be removed from delicately- ited dessert services as soon as the convives assemble in the drawing-room. Ihere is not time to wash them up at once (by far the best plan), the first i tunity should be taken of doing so, and before going to bed this should Uone. pi. In extinguishing wax candles in chandeliers, candelabra, and piano candle- E8, care should be taken to avoid disturbing the wax ; if blown out, the hand M be placed behind the light to guard the " spirt" of wax from the carpet, but the neatest plan is to have an extinguisher mounted on a long stick, and I! lights extinguished one by one by this. THE GENERAL SERVANT. .75. Whether the entire Work of a Household can be efficiently performed li one servant, is a question very frequently discussed, and one that often gives Ito a very considerable diversity of opinion. Our own judgment—deduced from experience—is, that it can be done. That a methedical^ considerate mistress.XXX Philosophy of Housekeeping. thoroughly acquainted herself with household afiFairs, can, with one active, in'di- ligent, and obliging servant, manage her establishment both comfortably and creditably ; that she can have a clean and neat house, and well-cooked meali punctually served at regular hours, without being herself a " household drudge." Wo believe that uncleanliness, untidiness, and waste, with unwholesome foo ] at uncertain intervals—than which there is nothing more trying to the temper and digestion of man—and all the other discomforts and annoyances of an ill-organized household, are no more necessities in a family where only one servant can be afforded, than in one that is served by a whole retinue of domestics. 176. The following account of the daily work of a general servant, which we make as accurate and minute as possible, shows how a household can be mana. ed with one servant; we trust that it may prove useful to mistress and maid ; i; re particularly in those cases where, from want of an early training, or from ha : l- but recently entered on those duties and responsibilities, the mistress doe.s . t possess the knowledge required for ordering her household. THE DIVISION OP LABOUB 177. Is a most important part of household economy. A mistress can assist her servant in her work, and lighten it for her, without having to perform offii uncongenial and distasteful to a woman of education and refinement. In on to explain these relative duties in the most clear and comprehensive mai possible, we give an outline of the servant's work in the order in which ii necessary and most convenient that she should perform it, followed by an outl: of the share of the domestic duty which falls mOot pleasantly and naturall the mistress, concluding with tried methods of " the best mode of doing thingi THE SERVANT. 178. Early rising is a most essential point; therefore, as a rule, six, ?nmi and winter, is the hour at which to rise. The morning work, with fires and ei boot-cleaning, is heavier in winter than ia summer ; therefore at that seasoni maid can less afford to lie late in bed. 179. On coming downstairs she should open all the shutters, and, If the we be fine, the windows of all the lower rooms. ISO. She should then go to the kitchen, and having cleared out the rcmaiil the fire of the night before, and brushed up, blacked, and brightened the she should proceed— TO LIGHT THE KITCHEN FIRE. 181. She will then go on— TO SWEEP THE BREAKFAST-ROOM.xxxi To Sweep the Breakfast-Hoora. 182. Having laid dovra a coarse cloth over the carpet in front of the fireplace, she will first clear away all the cinders and ashes from the grate, putting them in the cinder-pail. This is a japanned tin pail, with a wire sifter inside and a closely Biting top. In this the cinders are sifted, and reserved for use in the kitchen or for the copper-fire, the ashes alone being thrown away. She will then blacklead the grate, first laying on the blacklead with a soft brush, then brushing it agorously with a hard one, finishing it off with a polishing brush. No blacklead a to be put upon any portions of the grate that may be of polished steel; these should be rubbed with a clean dry leather and putty powder. If any spots of •ust appear, a paste made of fresh lime and oil should be at once applied, and •enewed until it has disappeared ; the fire-irons are to be cleaned in the same way f bright, and then rubbed with the leather; all the bright-steel portions of the ender should be rubbed with the leather; emery-paper must on no account ba ised to bright steel. 183. She will then light the fire. Fire-lighting, however simple, is an operation ■equiring some skill. A fire is readily made by laying a few cinders at the bottom In open order ; over this a few pieces of paper, and over, that again eight or ten pieces of dry wood; over the wood, a course of moderate-sized pieces of coal, faking care to leave hollow spaces between for air at the centre, and taking care I lay the whole well back in the grate, so that the smoke may go up the chimney Ind not into the room. This done, fire the paper with a match from below, and, ■ properly laid, it will soon burn up; the stream of flame from the wood and laper soon communicating to the coals and cinders, provided there is plenty of I ir at the centre, 184. A new method of lighting a fire is sometimes practised with advantage, the re lighting from the top and burning down, in place of being lighted and burning I from below. This is arranged by laying the coals at the bottom, mixed with I few good-sized cinders, and the wood at the top, with another layer of coals ad some paper over it; the paper is lighted in the usual way, and soon bums jwn to a good fire, with some economy of fuel, it is said, 185. That being d one, she will clean the hearthstone, bringing up for the pur« ose a small pail of hot water, a house-flannel, and piece of hearthstone. Having ell washed the hearthstone, she will whiten it by rubbing it while wet with the sarthstone ; but in doing this she must be very careful to let none of the water »uch the grate, fender, or fire-irons. Then, having removed all her brushes and 5xes, the dust-pan, pail, house-flannel, and stone, and having shut the parlour- Dor, she will sweep the hall, using for it the house-sweeping brush, and not the irpet-broom. She will also sweep the halldoor-steps, and, taking out the door- ats, beat and shake them well, 186. Then she will return to the breakfast-room, where the dust will be by lis time settled, and dust it all carefully.Philosophy of Housekeeping, 187. In doing this, she will be particular not to omit dusting the legs of tb various pieces of furniture, and lifting and dusting under as well as round all th small articles on chimneypiece, sideboard, side-table, and bookshelves, also tlj window-ledges and sills. 188. She will then arrange the various articles of furniture in their place replace the rug and fender, and leave the room, shutting the door after her aga' 189. BHUNSWICK BLACK. Ingredients.—1 lb. of common asphaltum, J pint of linseed oil, 1 quart of of turpentine. Mode.—Melt the asphaltum, and add gradually to it the other two ingredient Apply this with a painter's brush, and leave it to become perfectly dry. T grate will need no other cleaning, but will merely require dusting every daj', an occasionally brushing with a dry blacklead brush. This is, of course, when n fires are used. When they are required, the bars, cheeks, and back of the gra' will need blackleading in the usual manner, 190, POLISH FOR BRIGHT STOVES AND STEEL ARTICLES Ingbedients.—1 tablespoonful of turpentine, 1 ditto of sweet oil, emer powder. Mode.—Mix the turpentine and sweet oil together, stirring in sufficient eme powder to make the mixture of the thickness of cream. Put it on the artic with a piece of soft flannel, rub off quickly with another piece, then polish wi a little emery powder and clean leather. TO CLEAN BOOTS. 191. She should then clean any boots unavoidably left since the night befor after which, the last of the morning's " dirty work" being done, the servant gc upstairs and knocks at the diffei-ent bedroom doors to "call" the famil supplying thoso who require it with warm water, which—not to empty h kettle—she should draw from the boiler, where, by this time, it will be qui warm enough, except for shaving-water, which must be boiling and taken fro the kettle. She should then go to her own room, wash her face and hands, b her hair, and put on a clean cap and apron, 192. Her next work is— TO LAY THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 193. The requisites for this for a family of four, will be found on page xlvii. Th she should collect on her tray, placing them carefully, the large plates one o another, and the small plates on them ; the four saucers one over another,To Get the Breakfast Eeady. )f the cups ono withia the other on them, the two other cups one wiiliiu the in the slop-basin; the tablecloth and napkins are usually kept in the side- drawer. i. Having spread the cloth carefully, she should lay at eacli person's place a and small knife, a fork, and a largo and small plate ; the knives are to be at ight hand side of the large plates and close to them, the forks at the left and too, the small egg-platea next to the forks ; the cups and saucers should be d together before the mistress's place, the teapot, or coffee-urn, stand behind , and the slop-basin next to it, the milk-jug and sugar-basin on the other the small carving-knife and fork should be put with his own knife and fork master's place, and a mat before it for the hot dish, the tablespoon, placed ihways, in front of that j the teaspoons should be put each in one of the irs, the egg-spoons each on one of the small plates, and the napkins each on f the large plates; the cruet-stand in the centre of the table, one of the salt- at the right hand top corner, the other at the right hand bottom corner table ; the dessert-spoon placed on the plate with the marmalade, which e taken from the cellaret; the butter-knife laid close to the butter-dish, the knife in the bread-platter, the large carving-knife and fork on the side- I5. This being done, she will bring up the cold meat, having first put it on a 1 dish, and place it on the sideboard ; bring up the bread in the bread-basket the bread-platter, which should be clean and white, and place it at the side table and the butter in the butter-dish, where the mistress will put the l-basin when she takes it from the cellaret. Should there be a portion of a ||f bread cut the day before, that should be brought up ; but unless it be more balf a loaf, an entire one should be brought up also. About a quarter of a , of butter will be sufficient, and half a pint of milk. G. She will then go to the kitchen to— GET THE BREAKFAST READY. The kettle being boiling, sho will move it a little to the side—still keeping ling—to make room for the pan or gridiron. Having put down the rashers of 1, or whatever other meat is to be cooked for breakfast, and put a dish and >late3 into the oven to warm, she may, while attending to the meat, make, of the family require it, two or three rounds of thin toast, which, as soon as me is fini.-lied, should be placed in the toa3t-^ack. The meat being cooked, kild be put on the hot dish, and covered close to keep warm. :l The miatress will then be down to take out the tea and sugar from the Jjf, and the soi-vant having brought down the tea, will make it, first rin.sing apot with boiling water. bxxxlv Philosophy of Housekeeping. 109. Most mistresses prefer to mnke botli tea and cofiTee ; for tbis purpo , :ui urn is used in summer, and the bright copper kettle in winter. 200. While the tea is drawing, she will boil the eggs. These being done a: placed in the egg-cups, she will put them on a dish and the dish on her tra; she will put on it also the teapot, the dish of hot meat, and the hot plates, a' take all to the breakfast-room ; she will place the teapot on the stand befor mistress, the dish on tlv? mat before her master, the plates also befoi-o him eggs at the side ; she will then wait a few moments in the room to hand the plal All this, if done in the above onler and quickly, without daicdling, can be accoi plished by eight o'clock, winter or summer. While the family are at th breakfast, she should take her own ; and then, immediately she is done, she should go upstairs and open all the bedroom windows, and turn down the be-: to air. n ork, 1 In 201. When the family have finished breakfast, she should first clear away the breakfast things, then take up the crumbs in the dustpan, arrange the chairs in their places, and sweep up the hearth. Where but one servant is kept, and in a town house, it is better immediately after breakfast to attend to doicnslair wort, rather than go to make up the bedrooms. For, as between nine and ten o'cl( is the usual hour for the tradespeople to call, the continued running up and di stairs to attend to them, if she be engaged in the upper part of the house, besi being a severe tax upon her strength, greatly retards a servant in work, unavoidable delays, too, which it occasions in attending to them, is a considerable trial to the patience of the butcher and greengrocer, who are also trying to c;t through ikeir morning's work as quickly as possible. After breakfast, theref jre, the first thing for the general servant to do is to— WASH UP THE BREAKFAST THINGS. (See j)age 1.) 202. When all the things are done they should bo put instantly by, the pH and dishes in their appointed places on the dresser, the china cups and sau| in the cupboard, the knives in the knife-basket, the silver in the plate-basket, i at once taken up to the dining-room, and placed in the cellaret, and locked ili| 203. The servant should then wash down the kitchen-table, empty, wipej and put aside the pail, hang up the towels to dry, clean and put aside the f sav.cepan and frying-pan ; arrange the kitchen fire, sweep up the hearth,! generally tidy up the kitchen for her mistress's inspection. 204. Then, having washed her hands, she will go upstairs, and proceed—'•^■re^ TO ARRANGE THE BEDROOMS. (^ke Housemaid.)XXXV To Thoroughly Clean a Bedroom. 205. The first thing to be done in the rooms is to empty the slops, and for Ithis she should take with her the slop-pail, a jug of boiling water, and two slop, cloths. 206. She should then lightly sweep up into her dustpan any fluff, scraps of paper, &c., that may be about the floor; straighten the carpet, if only side stiips are used, and arrange any of the furniture that may be out of its proper place. Then dust the room thoroughly, lifting all the things from the dressing-table and jhimney-piece and wiping each, dusting the looking-glass back and front, and removing, by rubbing, any spots that may appear on the plate. She should also lust the top and front of the chest of draweri, the front of the wardrobe, the lills and ledges of the windows and the door. She should then fill the water- ugs with soft and the bottles with clean cold water. Having completely finished me room, she should proceed to the next, and so through them all; and when ill are done, she should take downstairs all the candlesticks and hot-water jugs. Jesides this ordinary cleaning, each bedroom in the house should get a thorough ileaning once a week ; and they should be taken in regular rotation with the other rork. Thus the following is a good division :— 207. THE "WEEK'S WOBK OP AN EIGHT-BOOMED HOUSE. J Monday—Large bed- and dressing-room. ■ Tuesday—Second large bedroom, or two small. U "Wednesday—Dining-room and breakfast-room, 1 Thursday—Two smaller bedrooms. Friday—Drawing-room. ] Satm-day—Hall, kitchen, basement. I I 208. Also, if not carpeted all over, each bedroom should bo scoured out once a ortnight. j 209. Supposing, then, that it is Monday, and that one of the large bedrooms ; to bo scoured, she will, after having arranged the three others in the ordinary •ay, proceed to— THOROUGHLY CLEAN A BEDBOOM. I 210. For this she will first require a sweeping-brush, dustpan, and some moist i ^a-leaves, a furniture-brush, and duster. f211. Her first work will be to remove all the mattresses from the beds and 8h them with the furniture-brush, and to dust thoroughly all the joints and nccs of the bedstead. gl2. She will then make the bod, proceeding as before directed, except that shexxxvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. will put on clean sheets, bolster and pillow cases; will fold up the counterpane over the side of the bed, and pin up the curtains as high as she can ; also pin up the valance of the bed, and spread over all a large dusting-sheet, 213. She will then remove from the room all the dressing-table apparatus, small ornamental articles, the towels and sponges, and any clothes that may hanging on pegs; she will put the soiled sheets, bolster and pillow cases, windo blind and toilet-cover into the clothes-basket, remove the fender and fire-irona and roll up and remove the strips of carpets and the hearth-rug, 214. She will then sprinkle the tea-leaves over the floor, and sweep the roo beginning at the door, going into all the corners, and bringing the dust to t' hearthstone, where she will collect it in the dustpan. 215, She will then bnish down the walls, for this purpose using the comice-brus or tying a clean duster over the sweeping-brush, and bping careful to remove an cobwebs from the cornice and ceiling. 216. She will then take the sweeping-brush and dustpan downstairs and b ' up the housemaid's box with the blacklead-brushes, &c., for cleaning the grate also a small pail and bowl, a can of hot water, a bouse-flannel and hearthstone, piece of soap, a clean small flannel, and a clean glass-cloth. 217. She will then clean the grate, fender, fire-irons, and hearthstone, in t same manner and rotation as she did those of the breakfast-parlour. 218. She will then dust the room, doing it very thoroughly, not flapping a filapping the duster about, but wiping carefully with it the dust off the fumitu window-sills and ledges, the door, and wainscot. 219. Then she will wash with warm water and soap all the china on the was stand, rinsing it afterwards with cold water and wiping it dry with the cloth ft that purpose ; then wash the water-carafe and tumbler with warm water and soa or a bit of soda, rinsing them very thoroughly afterwards with cold water, a- rubbing them dry with the glass-cloth ; then, also with warm water and soap she will wash the top of the stand if it be of marble, using for this purpo the small flannel. 220. She will then wash, also with soap and warm water and flannel, t' china handles and plates of the door. If any part of the paint is dirty, it shoul be washed, too, but very carefully, and with cold water, or the paint will injured. 221. To do this properly she will require pieces of stiff cardboard cut to Ofxxxvii To Scour the Bedroom, jely round the handle and door-plate ; these are held in place while the ihing and drying ifi done, and prevent the paint from being worn away. 222. TO CLEAN MARBLE. ^Mii with ^ pint of soap-lees, ^ gill of turpentine, sufficient jiipo-clay and llocks' gall to make the whole into a rather thick paste. Apply it to the marble |,h a soft brush, and after a day or two, when quite dry, -ub it o£f with a soft I,. Apply this a second or third time, till the marble is quite clean. 23. AnotUr Method.—Take two parts of soda, one of pumice-stone, and one of Uly.powdered chalk. Sift these through a fine sieve, and mix them into laste with water. Bub this well over the marble, and the stains will be pved : then wash it with soap and water, and a beautiful bright polish will produced. 24. She will then wash with soap and warn water if it be summer, but cold ler if it be frosty winter weather, the window-panes, as much as she can get at lout going outside. The warm soap and water should be applied first briskly . the flannel; the glass should then be rinsed down with cold water, and and polished off afterwards with clean, dry cloths. For the rinsing, a ige will bo found very useful. The window-sills, if dirty, should also be led, but, like the door, gently, for fear of injuring the paint. 25. For all these purposes she will use the small bowl, which she can empty I the pail, and refill from the can as often as required. 228. TO CLEAN WINDOWS. {French Mode.) With a clean washleather, kept for the purpose alone, wash down the windows clean cold water, moving the leather one way only (downwards); rinse in Q water, and repeat with the wrung-out leather. Wash all the windows in way both inside and out, and leave them to dry. .J^oie.—This plan should be U3ed in a dusty thoroughfare, or when the sun shines hotly on the window. !27. All this work being finished, and having taken downstairs her pail, 1, can, hoxisemaid's box, stone, soap, cloths, flannels, &c., she will next seed to— SCOUR THE BEDROOM. p8. For this, if the room bo scoured regularly once a fortnight, she will require ling more than plenty of clean cold soft water, a good scrubbing-brush, and use-flannel. Having scrubbed well with the brush, and plenty of water, a ion as far as her arm will reach, she should dry it off with the flannel before£xxviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. moving to do another portion, and sho must bo careful not to omit scrubljij equally all the floor, else it will have a patchy appearance afterwards, some tions being whiter than others. She should also empty her pail and refill it wii clean water very frequently. 229. But if the boards have not been washed for a long time, and are re dirty, soap and sand must be used and the water must be changed very frequent 230. The following is a very good recipe— TO WHITEU BOARDS THAT HAVE BBEN NEGLECTED.} 231. ^ lb. lime, h lb. washing soda, 1 quart boiling water. Mix all together, and leave until cold. Then drain off the water, and use the sediment iustea ' of soap. 232. In scrubbing a room, the servant should begin with the part most reniote ft cm the door, and scrub regularly to the door. It should be done as quickly ai possible, and when finished the windows and door should be set wide open, so ai to allow a good current of air to pass through the room and dry the boards. Id winter a fire ought to be lighted. A bedroom should never be scoured in wet, or even damp, weather. When the room is thoroughly dry, she will replace tU|H carpets, after well shaking or beating them, bring back the towels, spoag«5^"T clothes, ornaments, &c., which she had removed, and arrauge them all in tbair places ; rub and polish the furniture, remove the dusting-sheet from the bed, down the valauce, counterpane, and curtains, and put on a clean toilet-cover, put up clean muslin blinds. 233. We have thus given a description of the thorough cleaning of a bedroomJ that, when necessary, the general servant will know how to do everything tU is requisite to be done : but in many houses the bedrooms are carpeted all ov and are, therefore, only scoured ouce or twice a year, when the carpets are up. Also, in very few families where but one servant is kept, are the bed-lii blinds, and toilet-covers changed so often as once a week, 234. The bedrooms being all finished, the servant wiU dust down the bauist rubbing the handrail well. She will also dust the closet and the lobby windol the sills, and ledges, 235. But, on a day when a bedroom is being thoroughly cleaned out, these du<| need not be deferred until the bedroom is quite completed. While the dust| settling in the room after the sweeping, and before tlie dusting, is a good ■ to do the stairs, &o, 5:36, At twelve o'clock the maid must peel and put in the potatoes for her oi din)ier, and for the children's dinner or mistress's lunch.To Get the Dinner Eeady. I 237. The morning housework being completed with the drawing-room, the irvant will now TAKE UP THE LUNCHEON". • 238. The things required for this will depend upon the nature of the meal. If la or coffee is used, cups and saucers must be taken up. Cold meat must be aced on a clean dish, and plates, besides the small breakfast-plates, supplied r it. Also large knives and forks, and a carving knife and fork, tumblers and ine-glasses, and a sufficient number of articles, whatever be the kind used, ust be provided for the number of people as at breakfast: if four people, four everything. The table will be laid the same as at breakfast, only that, if .ere are but one or two ladies for luncheon, it will be sufficient to lay the cloth er half the table only. 239. While the family are at luncheon she should take her own dinner, then I^e and wash up the things. 0. After this she should take out a sufficient supply of coals for the rest of a,y ; when, all dirty work being over, she should go up and dress herself e afternoon. From this time (about two o'clock) until four she may occupy If with starching, sprinkling, and folding, or ironing, any things of her tr her mistress's that go in the week's home wash, which she can do, and herself clean and tidy at the same time to attend the hall-door during this 3ual visiting hour. We may here remark that no washing should be done general servant when it is possible to put it out. The afternoons in the that she has not got this to do she should give to needlework, making, ing, and keeping her own clothes in order. If six be the dinner-hour, at ihe will begin to— GET THE DINNER READY. 1. However, if a large joint has to be roasted, she would have to begin her .rations earlier. For example, an 8-lb. leg of mutton would take from a er before four; but if the dinner were to consist of cold meat, fried fish, loup, perhaps made the day before, if she set to work at half-past four she I have ample time for all preparations. This part of a servant's business, ver, varies so much with each day's dinner, that it is impossible to lay any exact rule to be precisely followed each day; but when a servant 8 from experience the length of time it will take her to prepare a ler of dishes of certain kinds, sho should always commence sufficiently early ow herself that length of time, and not try and cheat herself into the belie she can do it equally well in half. If a shoxilder of mutton weighing 7 lb., r soup, an apple-tart, mashed turnips and potatoes are ordered for dinner ir o'clock, she should put down the joint, then she should make the tart ing it in a cool place afterwards), then lay the cloth for dinner, then putPhilosophy of Housekeeping. in the turnips, theu the potatoes, then put the tart in the oven. While the turnips and potatoes are boiling sho should clear the soup, and add the vegetables thereto. At a quarter to six she should take up the turnips, and, if quite tender, mash them, adding the butter and pepper and salt; put them back in the saucepan, and place it at the side of the fire to keep warm. The gravy for the mutton should then be prepared. At six precisely the soup should be served, and, having handed round the potatoes, the servant should return to the kitchen and dish the mutton and vegetables, which she will get done just by the time the family are ready for them. By following this course she will bo able to serve all her dinner punctually and satisfactorily. 2i2. TO LAY THE DINNER-TABLE. {See page Iviii.) 24S. Everything should be as clean as possible. The bread-plates free from crumbs, the butter-dish unsmeared with butter, the salt-cellars bright and filled with fine salt, the cruet-stand quite bright and clean, the mustard-pot half filled with fresh mustard, the vinpgar-bottle filled with vinegar, and the other bottles with whatever sauces may be used. If dessert and wine be taken, the dessert will be placed down the middle of the table, in which case the cruet-stand will be put on the sideboard, and a vase of flowers substituted for it on the table. The wine will be placed at the corners of the table, inside the salt-cellars and table-spoons; if there are but two decanters one will be placed at the right hand top corner and one at the right hand bottom corner. 244. When dessert and wine are used, four dessert plates and f oxir dessert knives will have to be brought up and placed on the sideboard. Four additional table- spoons will also have to be put on the table at the other corners. Each person must have as many glasses as there are different kinds of wines. If only sherry and claret, a sherry and claret glass to each person ; if sherry, claret, and port, a sherry glass, clai-et glass, and port glass to each person. 245. If nuts in the shells form part of the dessert, a pair of nut-crackers shoul-j be placed on each dish of nuts, 246. If the servant adopts a particular system in bringing up and layinp- all these various things, and adheres to it regularly each day, she will find that it may all be accomplished in a very short space of time, and nothing be foreotton. 247. The tab.'o laid and the cooking completed, her next work will be to— DISn UP THE DINNER, 248. Five minutes before beginning this she should put four soup-plates in the oven, or in t'lo plate-warmer if there bo one, to warm.To Dish up the Dinner. 219. She should first rinse out the soup-tureon with hot water to warm it, then place it on the table. Then take the digester from the fire, remove the cover carefully, and pour the soup guicH]/ from it into the tureen. It should be don© at once, not allowing the soup to dribble at all over the side of the digester. She should then put aside the digester, and examine the soup carefully ; if there be the slightest sign of grease floating on it or any black that may have got accidentally from the side or cover of the digester, it should be instantly removed with a spoon or piece of clean blotting-paper, 250. She should then put the cover on the tureen, place the tureen on its dish, carry it upstairs, and put it on the table, at the head. 251. She should then take up the plates, and having announced to the family that dinner is served, should wait in the room to hand round the soups, then return to the kitchen. 252. She should then put four plates, a large dish, and two vegetable dishes to warm. 253. The dish being hot she should wipe it, take the mutton from the spit y.nd place it on it, carefully examining the meat and removing any small cinder that might happen to have flown from the fire on it. She should pour the gravy round the meat—not over it—then cover it. 254. She should then dish the potatoes, taking them carefully one by ona with a spoon from saucepan or steamei', not shaking them all out together, 255. Then dish the mashed turnips; these should be turned out altogether from the saucepan, as taking them up in spoonfuls would cool them. 256. She should then take up the meat and plates (having first wiped them), and place them on the tray outside the door. Then when the bell rings she should remove the soup, soup-plates, under-plates, and spoons, and put on'the meat and plates for that both before her master, she should then return to the kitchen, bring up the potatoes and turnips, and place them on the table, one dish on each Kide. 257. She should, having waited in the room to hand the plates and vege- tables, return to the kitchen, taking with her the soup-tureen. While the family are partaking of the meal she should put four plates to warm, for the tart. Slie may also bring down the soup-plates and spoons, and wash up them and tho tureen while waiting. 258. When she removes the tart from tho oven, she should place it on a cloan dish. Before taking up this and the plates for it, she should remove the meat, plates, and vegetables.xlii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 259. Havin;^ placed it on the table, and also the sifted sugar, she should wait in the room to hand about tho plates ; then return to tho kitchen, taking some of the things from the tray with her, and continue her washing up. 260. Having removed the tart she should take that and the meat to the pantry : the latter should be placed on a clean, cold dish, and the gravy put aside in a basin. She should then also remove all the i-est of the things, taking the bread, butter, and cheese to the pantry, and all the used plates, dishes, knives, forks, spoons, and glasses to the kitchen. 2G1. She should perform this work of removing as quietly and noiselessly as possible, following, as in the laying, a regular system. 262. She should first remove the dish, then the plates, and collecting the knives, forks, and spoons, in a basket, or putting thom all together on the tray, the plates piled one upon another on the tray; but she should never attempt to pile the plates with the knives, forks, and spoons on them. She should remove the glasses carefully, not clashing them together. Dinner being removed, she should then remove the crumbs with the brush for that purpose, fold the cloth neatly, and proceed— TO WASH UP THE DIWNER THINGS. 263. 33ut this, as we have shown, she may have commenced beforehand. 264. She should have a large tub of hot water and a couple of good dry rubbers for the gi'easy plates and dishes. She should wash them first very thoroughly, and wipe tbem well dry. Then the knives : she should hold the blades in the water, not letting it touch the handle, and should wipe them quite dry. Then the silver spoons, for which she should take some fresh hot water; after being washed and wiped they should be rubbed well with a very dry soft cloth. 265. The glasses must not be washed in the same pail used for tho grea.ey things ; she should have another pail for them, with some warm, 7iot hot, water. They should be washed first and loft to drain, thou dried quickly with a fine dry linen glass-cloth. 266. When all the things are washed, they should bo put by in their proper places, and the towels used hung up to dry. 267. Then having put the kettle on to boil, she should go to tho scullery and clean up all the pots, pans, and saucepans, the roaster, and whatever else was used in cooking the dinner, and clean tho knives. This last will be but little trouble if a knife-cleaner is used. Shu should then clean any boots and shoes dry enough to be done; take out a sufficient supply of coals for next morning's fires. She sliouldxliii To Wash up the Dinner Things. then tidy up her kitchen, and having resumed her white apron, which she will have exchanged for a common coarse one while doing the dirty work, she will take up the tray for tea, or coffee, or whatever else the family may be in the habit of taking in the evening. She should also take up the chamber candle- sticks and leave them in the hall. 268. It will now be about half-past eight, and occasionally she may ask leave to go out for an hour, or possibly her master or mistress may send her out on some errand; if the evening be fine, a short walk in the fresh air will refresh and invigorate her. 269. Having removed the tea-tray and washed up the things used, she should go up to the bedrooms, taking with her the slop-pail and a large can of clean cold water. Having emptied the slops and refilled any jugs and bottles that may require it, she should turn down the beds. In doing this she should first fold back the small portion of the sheet that is in excess of length of the other clothes, then turn back all together, but not bringing them down farther than to expose the bolster and ipillows. She should then let down the curtains at each side of the bed. 1 270. She should also close any windows that maybe open and hasp them, draw down the blinds, and shut the shutters, or draw the window curtains, according as the people to occupy the room desire. i 271. Having come downstairs again, she should empty the slop-pail, rinse it, wipe it dry, and set it aside. I 1 272. She should then lock all the lower doors and turn oS" the kitchen gas, and having taken up the keys and the plate to her mistress, she should go to bed. j 273. This, except on rare occasions of late company, she ought not to delay, if he can help, later than ten o'clock. If her master and mistress do not require ler to sit up, she should never loiter about. Plenty of sleep is absohitely lecessary for any one who daily undergoes hard bodily labour; and this a general servant who rises at six cannot have unless she goes to bed at ten ('clock. 274. The daily routine of a general servant's work, of course, to a certain ixtent, must vary, no one day being exactly the same as the one before or the me to come after. 275. For instance, in the day described, wo have given for afternoon work barcbing or ironing ; but another afternoon it would be rubbing plate, cleaning lass candlesticks, cleaning lamps, gaselier shades, Sjc.xliy Philosophy of Housekeeping. 276. Washing should be done in the forenoon ; but supposing that one bedroom is scoured every week, the servant should never attempt washing on the same day. 277. Sweeping the stairs should be done on one of the bedroom cleaning days, but not on the bedroom scouring day. 278. Cleaning the doorsteps should be daily work. They should be done in the morning before breakfast, if possible ; if not, immediately after the bedrooms are done up, and before putting on the luncheon. 279. In all washing up, scouring, &c., the servant should never grudge herself plenty of clean water and clean cloths; it saves trouble in the end, for it is impossible to make things look clean with dirty cloths and water. 280. ROUTINE OF HOUSE-WOBK FOR TWO SERVANTS. Where two servants, housemaid and cook, are kept, 281. To get through the work in a regular and orderly manner, such as will give satisfaction to the mistress, it is necessary that the cook and housemaid should divide it judiciously between them, certain duties being taken entirely by the one, and certain other duties by the other; so that when anything is to be done, it may always be definitely understood who is to do it. 282. To show how it may best be divided, the following outline of one day's work in a house assigns to each servant the share of the duties that it is usually most convenient she should take. 283. They should both rise at six o'clock. On coming downstairs the cook should go to the kitchen and lower offices ; the housemaid to the sitting-rooms, to open all the shutters, and if the weather be fine, the windows of the various apartments. 281. She then— ARRANGES THE BREAKPAST-ROOM, , And gets it ready for the family ; for this she brings upstairs a carpet-broom, dustpan, and some damp tea-leaves. 285. She should then first remove the fender and fire-irons, and roll up and remove the rug; take off the tablecloth, shake and fold it; also shako and fold any antimacassars that may bo in the room, and place all together on th* table, which she should cover with a dusting-sheet. She should also cover the sofa, if there bo one in the room, ar.d the easy chair, and place the other chairs on«Wash, the Hearthstone. seat upon the other, apd get all the furniture as much together and into tha middle of the room as possible. She should then, having sprinkled the carpet all over with the tea-leaves— SWEEP THE EOOM, Beginning at the door, going into all the comers; when it is swept all round, moving the fumitui-e and sweeping where that stood, and bringing all the dust to the hearthstone, where she should collect it in the dustpan and remove it. 286. She should then shut the door, and while the dust is settling sweep out the hall and down the doorsteps, using for this not the carpet-broom, but the common house-sweeping brush. She should also take out the hall mats and shake them. 287. She should then return to the breukfast-room, bringing with her the housemaid's box, well supplied with brushes, blacklead, emery paper, and leathers. The cinder-pail, a small pail of hot watei', a house flannel, a piece of hearthstone, a large coarse cloth, and paper, firewood, coals and matches to light the fire. She should theia first lay down the cloth before the fireplace to save the carpet— CLEAN THE GRATE, FENDER, AND PIEE-IRONS.] 288. She should first clear out of the grate all the remains of the fire of the day before, placing the cinders and ashes in the cinder-box. 280. Then blacklead the grate, laying on the black lead with a soft brush, rub- bing it off vigorously with a harder one, and finishing it off with a polishing brush. Then rub with a leather all the polished steel portion of the grate, which should not be touched at all with the blacklead or brushes; where any spots appear, rubbing fiist with the emery paper, and afterwards with the leather. The fender the same way; any portion that is of polished steel being cleaned with emery paper and leather. The fire-irons always with emery paper and leather only. 290. She will then— LIGHT THE FIRE, Proceeding in exactly the same manner as the cook does with the kitchen fir^ (See page xlviii.) Then— WASH THE HEARTHSTONE, Washing it very thoroughly, rinsing it quite free from all diit and blaok;xlvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. then, while wet, she should rub it well all over with the hearthstone, but in doing this she must be very careful to let none of the water or stone touch the grate, fender, or fire-irons. 291. She should then remove to the scullery all the tools and utensils she used for the grate and fire, and, bringing up a clean duster, she should thoroughly— DUST THE BREAKFAST PAHLOUR. 292. In doing this, she should go over every article carefully, not flapping the duster about, but vjLping the dust off with it. She should go over the backsand IcLfs of the various pieces of furniture, and should lift every small article from chimney- piece and sideboard, and dust under them. She should also dust round the cornice of the room, dust the door and the window-panes, sills, and ledges. 293. She should then rearrange the fui-niture all in its proper place, and everything being in order, .she should leave the room, shutting the door after hei-. 29i. She should then— CLEAN THE LADIES' BOOTS AND SHOES. 295. Except in the case of very stout common leather boots, which some ladie.<? use in the country in bad weather, or very old kid boots, ladies' boots must not be touched with blacking. If the soles are very muddy, they must be scraped round with an old knife, great care being taken not to touch the uppers, nor to do more to the soles than take the mud off, the leather itself must not be scraped. The mud off the uppers "hculd be removed with a sponge dipped in milk. When boots arp •".'^-.jtiially muddy, it will be sufficient to go round the edges of the soltt ..all a very soft brush, and to wipe the uppers gently with a flannel. When kid boots become old and discoloured, the " Kid Reviver" that most bootmakers sell is better to use than common blacking. It is laid on with a sponge, and left to dry, no brushing or polishing is necessary. Their morning's "dirty work" being then concluded, the servants should go to their own room, wash their face? and hands, arrange their hair, and put on clean caps and aprons. Having washed her hands, the housemaid will then go upstairs and knock at the different chamber-doors to arouse the family, supplying each room with warm water, and leaving the boots and shoes outside the doors of their wearers. Then— THE HOUSEMAID LAYS THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 200. Tlie laying of the breakfast-table will vary according to the number of thexlvU Laying the Breakfast-Table. famUy. In the present instance we will suppose it to be four, therefore she will first collect on her tray and take upstairs— The tablecloth. 4 Napkins. 4 Breakfast cups and saucers. 4 Large plates. 4 Smaller plates. The teapot-stand. 4 Large knives, 4 Small knives. The bread-knife. The butter-knife. 4 Forks. 1 Largo carving knife and fork. 1 Smaller carving knife and fork. 4 Teaspoons. 1 Dessert spoon. The cruet-stand. 2 Salt-cellars. 2 Pairs of knife-rests. The slop-basin. In placing these on the tray, she should be careful to lot the tablecloth and napkins intervene between the china and the other things. She should place the tray on the stand outside the parlour-door, putting it in a convenient position so that she can easily pass in and out. She should first spread the cloth, doing it very carefully so as to avoid creasing it, keeping it quite straight, and an equal length hanging down at each end and at the sides. 297. She should then place at the head of the table—the mistress's place—the teapot-stand. In front of that the cups and saucers, ai-ranged in a double row, room being left between them and the edge of the table for the mistress's plate. Then the slop-basin at the left-hand side of the cups and saucers. The smaller plates should then be put round the table, one at each person's place, a napkin on each; they should be near the edge, but not near enough to be in danger of falK/ig off. One large and one small knife should be j)ut at the right hand side of each plate, a fork at the left hand side. The small carving knife and fork should be put at the foot of the table—the master's place ; next his own knife and fork; one pair of rests in front of them. The large carving knife and fork should be put on the sideboard with the other rests, the four large plates should be put there also. The cruet-stand should be placed in the centre of the table ; the bread-knife at one side, the butter-knife at the other ; one salt-cellar at the right-hand top corner, the other at the right-hand bottom corner ; the dessert-spoon should be placed on the plate with the marmalade or honey when it is taken from the cellaret. A table-mat should be placed before the master's place. 298. All these things should be scrupulously clean an^\free from dust; the mustard-pot should be half-filled with fresh mustard, and the salt-cellars supplied yith fine table-salt. 299. Having put all these things on, she should fetch up from the pantry— The cold meat—on a clean dish. The bread on the bread-plate or in the bread-basket. The butter in the butter-dish. The milk in the milk-jug, .^Vie cream in the cream-cwor.xlviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 300. Tho bread-basket should be free from crusts and crumbs, and there should not be less than a loaf; 3 oz. of butter, nicely rolled in pats, will be sufficient, and half a pint of milk. 301. The milk and cream should be placed at the right-hand side of the breakfast-cups, where the sugar-basin will be placed also when it is taken from the cellaret. The bread should be at the side of tho table where the bread-knife was placed, the butter where the butter-knife. The cold meat should be put on tho sideboard. 802. Whilst the housemaid is thus engaged— THE cook: lights the kitchen fike. 303. She should first clean out of the fireplace the remains of tho fire of the night before, then thoroughly brush all the range. For lighting the fire she will require some paper, a dozen sticks of fii-ewood, a few lumps of round coal, some good cinders, and a few matches. She should first place the paper at the bottom of the grate, but to the front near the bars; then most of the firewood, the sticks placed lengthways, one end resting on the second bar, the other at the back of the bottom of the grate, leaving a little space between each. She should then strike a match and set fire to the paper, and as it blazes up, and the wood catches, she should put on the coals and cinders lightly, and the rest of the sticks among them. If the paper burns away before the sticks have caught, she should replace it with come more paper ; but when the sticks have caught with a few of the coals and cinders, then as the fire lights up it will not sink. 304. The fire being lighted, the cook should clear away all the ashes and cinders, rub up with a leather the bright parts of the range, and wash the hearth ; when washed quite clean, but while it is still wet, she should rub it with a piece of hearthstone to whiten it, and place the kettle, filled with water, on the fire to boil. She should then thoroughly dust the kitchen, and put everything straight and in order; and having removed to tho scullery the brushes, the leather, the blacklead, the pail, flannel, brick, and whatever else she may have used with the fireplace, she should— CLEAN THE GENTLEMEN'S BOOTS AND SHOES. 305. For this she will require some blacking and three brushes—one hard, one soft, and one medium. She should first, with tho bard brush, brush ofi"the mud—but if tho boots be very muddy she must scrapo it off with an old knife round tho edges of the soles, being very careful, however, not to touch tho upper leather- then with the soft brush lay on tho blacking, and when that has dried on the boot polish it off with the medium brush. Each of the brushes should be used for its own particular purpose only. The cook then washes her hands, and proceeds toxlix The Cook Gets the Breakfast Keady. the hall, where she fastens the front door open, removes all coats, hats, umbrellas, and sweeps down the hall, collecting all the dust and dirt into her pan with the banister broom. If the hall be dirty, she removes all marks with a piece of flannel wrung out in warm water and polishes with another piece dipped in milk. Twice a week the hall is washed down as follows :— TO CLEAN A HALL. 306. Thoroughly wash off the dirt with flannel and warm, not hot, water; rub dry with a cloth as you go ; and when all is finished, rub lightly with the oilcloth restorer (page Ixiv), or with new milk, and brighten it. By using the simple restorer, an oilcloth may be preserved for a dozen years " as good as new." 307. Having cleaned the hall, she will dust the chairs and hat-stand and pegs, and return the coats and hats to their places, receiving them from the housemaid, who will have brushed them carefully downstairs. The cook beats the mat in the garden or street, and returns it to its place. She will next— CLEAN THE STEPS. 308. Scrubbing-brush, clean warm water, flannel, and hearthstone. She should first scrub the steps down, then dry off with the flannel, and while wet rub in the hearthstone. Some steps are whitened by a composition of pipeclay and water made into a thin paste, and laid on with a brush. This is an admirable white, but has the disadvantages of marking dresses, &c. 309. The scraper in country houses is taken indoors and cleaned, but when a fixture, as in London houses, the du-t must be removed daily, and the scraper washed and kept bright. After the steps, hall-door, &c., are cleaned— THE COOK GETS THE BREAKFAST READY. 310. When the kettle boils, she should move it aside, to make room for the pan or gridiron, still keeping it boiling, however. If she have an omelette to make, or fish, or cutlets to be prepared with eggs and breadcrumbs, they will have her first attention. If both fried fish and fried meat are wanted for break- fast, the fish should be done first, then covered close and kept warm while the meat is being cooked, not using the same pan. However, if the meat were only for one—such as a chop or a rasher of bacon—it might be done in a gridiron in front of the fire, while the fish or omelette was being fried on the top. 311. While the cooking is going on, she should put four plates to warm. She should also make some pieces of nice thin toast, and place them in the toast- rack. 812. When the pan is removed from the fire, she should boil the eggs, first1 Philosophy of Housekeeping, putting four ogg-cups to warm ; she should also make the tea—if that be done in the kitchen; if an urn is used, she should fill that and send it up to the breakfast-parlour by the housemaid, when the mistress will make it herself. 313. She will then place on a tray the hot dish, the eggs in the egg-cups on a dish with four egg-spoons, the toast and the teapot, and give it to the housemaid, who will take it to the breakfast-parlour. 314. The housemaid will wait a few moments in the parlour to hand the plates, &c. ; after that— THE COOK ATTENDS THE BREAKFAST-PABLOTJIl, while— THE HOUSEMAID GOES TO THE BEDKOOMS, to open aU the windows and turn down the beds. 315. She should open out and separate all the bedclothes, placing them over the ends of the bedsteads and the backs of the chairs to air. Then, while the family are finishing breakfast, the servants should take theirs; and both parlour and kitchen breakfasts being concluded— | THE COOK "WILL BEMOVE THE BREAKFAST THINGS, i After which, she should bring up a hand-brush and dustpan, and sweep up the crumbs. She should also arrange the fire, sweep up the hearth, and put the chairs in their places. She will then— WASH UP THE BREAKFAST THINGS. 31G. For this she will require a pail of hot water, two tea-towels, and a coarse dish-cloth. These latter should be all quite clean and dry. She should fii-st remove the tea-leaves from the teapot, and put them aside carefully for sweeping. She should then rinse out the teapot, if it be of metal, and put it aside to be rubbed up with the rest of the plate; if it be china, it should be rinsed both outside and inside, and left to drain, 317. Then wash the cups and saucers and all the rest of the ware, except the greasy plates and dishes, and leave them to drain. 318. Then wash the greasy plates and dishes, adding some fresh hot water to the pail, 319. Then the knives. These should not bo dipped entirely into the water. The blades should bo held down iu it for a short time; the handles should not I]i Both Make the Beds. ;oucli it at all. They should be immediately wiped in the coarse cloth, and laid iside to be cleaned. 320. She should then wipe thoroughly dry all the china and ware, using for .he cups and saucers the tea-towels only; but the dishes and plates must be wiped first with the coarse towel, and finished off afterwards with the finer one. 321. The silver should be washed in a separate bowl. It should be wiped ;horoughly dry, and afterwards be rubbed up with a clean leather. The teapot, f of silver or Britannia metal, should be rubbed up also. 322. All the things being clean, they should be immediately put by—the china \nd ware in their appointed places on the dresser or in the cupboard, the knives a the knife-box, the silver in the silver-basket, the salt-cellars and cruet-stand vherever they are usually kept, but the sideboard cellaret is the best place. It s a good thing, also, to take the silver up and put it in the sideboard immediately, rhen the pails should be emptied and wiped out, and the cloths rinsed and hung ip to dry, 323. The cook should then tidy up her kitchen and scullery in readiness for ler mistress when she- comes down to inspect and give her orders for the day. 324. THE BEDROOMS. Whilst the cook has been removing the breakfast things and washing them ip— THE HOUSEMAID EMPTIES THE SLOPS. 825. For this she should take upstairs a slop-pail, a can of boiling water, and .wo slop-cloths. 326. As she empties each vessel she should scald it out, then wipe it perfectly Iry. She should empty the tin baths, wipe them very dry, and turn them up on end igainst the wall. Empty any water that may remain in the water-jugs, bottles, ind tumblers, and rinse them out—the bottles and tumblers with tepid water, ■iinse out and wipe the soap-dish and the brush-dish; wipe down the tops of ;he stands, and replace all the things in their proper position. Jvl doing this ihe must be very particular to use one of the cloths with the washing apparatus )nly. Having finished this work in one room, she should go to another, and so through them all. She should then take downstairs her slop-pail, water-can, sloths, and hot-water jugs and chamber candlesticks, and then, being joined by ,he cook, who will have washed her hands and put on a large clean apron for ihe purpose, they will— BOTH MAKE THE BEDSlii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 327. Foather-beds and mattresses should bo turned every day, the former, also, will require to be well beaten and shaken. They should first seize it firmly by the top corners, and shake the feathers to the bottom. Then take it by the bottom corners and shake the feathers to the top. Then shake them down equally through it all, taking: care to break up any lumps. Then, when the feathers are evenly distributed throughout the whole, it should be smoothed down, and the mattress, if it be used, placed on gently and quite evenly. ^ 328. The under blanket comes next. It should come quite down to the bottom of the bed, and be spread smoothly without wrinkles. 329. Then the under sheet. It should be spread quite equally and evenly over the bed, no wrinkle, and should be tucked firmly in all round. I •330. Then the bolster. They should first hold it, one at each end, and shake it well; then beat the feathers out equally through the whole, and if the string or buttons of the case have become undone, re-fasten them. 331. Then the pillows. They should be well shaken and smoothed, and the buttons or strings fastened. 332. Then the upper sheet. This should be drawn up quite to the top of the bed. It should be put on quite evenly, and should be firmly tucked in at the bottom. 333. Then the blankets, one by one. They should be put on—first, at the top, not coming up quite as high as the sheet. They should be spread gently down, taking care not to draw the sheet, and should be tucked in at the bottom of the bed, 334. Then the counterpane should be spread over all very evenly and smoothly. It should not bo tucked in, but allowed to hang down on either side. 335. The bed-curtain should then be drawn up to the top, folded, and laid across over the bolster. 336. When one bed is done they should go to the next, and so through them all. When finished, the cook should retire to her downstairs work, while— THE HOUSEMAID SWEEPS AND DUSTS THE BEDROOMS. 337. It is not necessary to give a thorough sweeping to a bedroom every day. It is enough to lightly brush over the carpets with a hand-broom, collecting the dust as she goes in the dustpan ; but sl^e should particularly do so under theim To ThorougWy Clean and Scour a Bedroom, bods, where fluff collects the most. Having swept one bedroom, she should now dust it and finish it off before going to another. She shoulci dust every article in the room carefully. She should remove the looking-glass, bottles, boxes, &c., from the dressing-table, and dust it thoroughly ; and she should carefully dust the looking-glass and other things before replacing them. She should dust each of the chairs, the wardrobe, and chest of drawers, removing any article that may bo on the top of the latter, and dusting under them ; the same with the chimney- piece. She must also dust the door and the sills and ledges of the windows. She should then fill all the jugs and bottles with clean cold water, and, having shut all the bedroom doors, she should— SWEEP DOWN THE STAIKS. 338. Which should be done with a hand-broom and dustpan, collecting the dust as she goes. When the stairs and closet are swept down she should dust down the banisters, rubbing the handrail well; also the lobby windows, frames, sills, and ledges; and the outsides of all the doors, going thoroughly over all the panels. 339. Besides this daily "doing up," every bedroom in a house should get a thorough cleaning once a week ; and", if not cai*peted all over, should be scoured once every three weeks. 340. This in a house -with four bedrooms—two large and two small—would give one large bedroom to be done on Tuesday, one oa Wednesday, and the two small on Thursday. The housemaid would then have Friday for the drawing-room, and Saturday for plate-cleaning, lamp-cleaning, &c. If any washing be done at home, Monday is the best day for it, and no other extra work should be done on that day. 341. TO THOROTJaHLY CLEAN AND SCOUR A BEDROOM. The slops will have been emptied, of course, but no other work done in it previously. 842. Having brought up a furniture dusting brush and a duster, she will begin by removing the bed, mattress, and palliasse from the bedstead. She will then dust the bedstead thoroughly, going into all the joints and crevices ; then brush the mattress. She will then remove the sheets and pillows and bolster-cases, and place them in the soiled-clothes basket, and having replaced the bed, mattresses, bolster, pillows, blankets, and counterpane on the bedstead, but without making the bed, she will cover all with a large dusting-sheet. She will then fold and pin up as high as she can the bed and window curtains, and remove the soiled muslin blinds and toilet cover, and place them in the soiled-clothes basket. She will then remove from the bedroom the towel-stand, all clothes that may be hanging on pegs, the looking-glass and all small ornamental articles from the dressing.Philosophy of Housekeeping, table and chimne}'piece. She will also roll up and remove the strips of carpeting and hearth-rug, the fender and fire-irons, and any small portable articles of furniture. 343. Then, having brought up a sweeping-brush, dustpan, and some damp tea- leaves, she will sweep the room, beginning at the door, going into all the corners, and bringing the dust to the hearthstone, from which she will collect and remove it. She should also remove the dustpan and sweeping-brush, and shut the room door. 344. Although on ordinary days the staircase is not swept down until all the bed- rooms are done, on these " thorough cleaning" days it is best to do it immediately after this sweeping, because while the dust is settling there, nothing else can be done in the room. 345. The dust having settled, she should return, bringing with her the housemaid's box, a small pail of hot water, a house-flannel, and piece of Bath brick. 346. She should then clean the grate, proceeding in the same manner as with the breakfast-parlour grate, and wash and whiten the hearthstone, 347. She should then thoroughly dust the room, wiping every article of furniture carefully, wiping down the walls with a clean duster tied over a sweeping-brush, going all round the cornice and over the door. She should also dust the window- panes, sills, and ledges. 348. The dusting being done, she should take downstairs the housemaid's box, the sweeping-brush and dusters, the house-flannel and Bath brick, and bring up a large clean bowl, a can of hot water, a piece of soap, some washing soda, a piece of clean flannel, a sponge, a clean basin-cloth, and a clean linen glass-cloth. 349. She should then thoroughly wash, with soap, soda, and warm water, all the washing-table apparatus, and wipe them thoroughly dry; the water- bottle and tumbler should bo wiped with the glass-cloth. She should also wash down the marble top of the wnshstand with warm soap and water and the flannel. 350. She should then clean the windows. 351. Two leathers, two pails of cold water. Rub the windows up and down with a leather dipped in cold water, until all dirt, dust, and stains have disap- pearod, then, with a clean leather and fresh water, rub down one way only, and leave the glass to dry.Iv To Scour the Boom. 352. The window-panes being washed, she should wash the sills and ledges. 353. She should also wash the china plates and handles of the door, and any part of the paint that may be dirty; but this, as also the paint of the window- sills and ledges, should be done with cold water and soap, and very carefully, or the paint will be injured. 354. In doing all this work, she should frequently empty her bowl into the pail, and refill it with clean water. 355. Her next work, having removed the bowl, cloths, &c., will be to— SCOUR THE ROOM. 356. Boards that are scoured regularly once every three weeks require nothing more than plenty of clean cold soft water and hard scrubbing with a good scrub- bing-brush, to make and keep them a good colour ; but if they have been allowed to get very dirty, hot water, soda, and a little soap will be necessary. The house- maid should bring up a good large pail of water, a scrubbing-brush, and a clean house-flannel. She should begin to scour at the end of the room farthest from the door and work towards it. She should first scrub well a portion as far as she can reach kneeling, using plenty of Wciter; then wipe it off dry with the flannel, move a little, and do the next portion ; but she should take care to leave not the smallest bit of board unscrubbed or less scrubbed than the rest. If she use soap she must be careful to wash it oflf well again with the flannel, else the boards will blacken. She should empty her pail and refill it with fresh water very frequently, it will save trouble in the end, for it is impossible to wash anything clean with dirty water. 857. As soon as the room is all scoured out she should open the windows and the door to allow a thorough draught to pass through the room and dry it. In winter a fire should be lighted. But a bedroom should never be scoured in wet or even damp weather. 358. As soon as the room is dry, the cook will come up and assist her to make the bed, on which she will put clean sheets, bolster, and piUow-cases. 359. She will then bring back and lay down the carpets ; if possible they should first be shaken. Bring back the fender and fire-irons and all the furniture orna- ments and clothes which she had removed, and rearrange them in their proper places. She should put up clean blinds, put on a clean toilet-cover, and polish the looking-glass ; then, having filled the jug and bottle with fresh cold water, the room will be quite finished.Ivi Philosophy of Housekeeping. 380. TO THOHOUGHLY CLEAN THE DBAWINO-KOOM. First remove all furniture to the centre of the room, packing it up carefully, and placing all ornaments, pictures, &c., upon the centre table. Coverall with the dusting-sheets. Strew the carpet with well-washed tea-leaves, and sweep as directed on page liv ; dust walls and cornices with the brushes for that purpose; then clean the grate, hearth, &c., mantelpiece, looking-glasses, and windows; dust and replace the pictures, washing the frames with gin, and rubbing the cords well with a duster. Replace the furniture after well dusting and rubbing it with furniture-polish (page Ixiii). Carefully wash or rub the ornaments, and replace them. A large room with much furniture can bo cleaned in this manner in from three to four hours by two persons. 361. The cook also, in her department, should have particular days for " thorough cleanings." 362. Thus, Mondays she too gives to the washing. Tuesday she washes tho hall. Wednesday, thoroughly cleans the dining-room. Thursday, cleans tho front kitchen and scours all tho tins. Friday, the back kitchen and pantries; and Saturday, the hall, the kitchen stairs, and basement passage. Steps every day. 863. Therefore, on Tuesday, while the housemaid is engaged with the bod- rooms, THE COOK CLEANS THE HALL AND STEPS, [Seepage xlix.) 384. TO THOHOUGHLY CLEAN THE DINING-KOOM, She should first roll up the rug and remove the fonder and fire-irons. Then gather together tho furniture in the middle of the room, the chairs turned one upon another, and cover them all with dusting-sheets. She should remove all tho plate, &c., from tho top of tho sideboard, and either put it into tho sideboard or remove it from the room. She should then, having first sprinkled the carpet with damp tea-loaves, sweep the room, beginning at the door, going into all tho corners, and bringing the dust to the hearthstone, where she should collect it in the dustpan and remove it. 365. She should then clean the grate and hearthstone, bringing up for the purpose tho housemaid's box, a pail of hot water, a house-flannel, and hearthstone. She should first lay down a coarae cloth over the carpet in front of the fireplace, and place her utensils upon it. If there are the remains of a fire in tho grate, that must be first cleared away and placed in the cinder-box. She should then black- lead the grate, laying it on with a soft brush, rubbing it off with a harder, andIvii The Cook Washes up the Luncbeon Things. Snisbiug it with a polishing-brush. All the bright polished steel part should oe rubbed with emery paper, and afterwards with a leather, as should also be the 3re-irons and the steel portion of the fender. In washing the hearthstone she should be very careful not to let any of the water touch the grate ; if a fire is to oe lighted, that should be done before the washing of the hearthstone. 366. She should then remove all these utensils, and having provided herself mth a clean duster and a cornice-broom, she should dust all the room carefully, i\'iping down the walls, going over all the cornices, and the doors, the window-panes, iills, and ledges. If there are any pictures in the rooms they should be dusted vith a light feather-brush, as should the frame of the chimney-glass ; the plate should be polished with a clean dry linen cloth. She should then dust all the "urniture, and replace the several articles in their proper positions. 367. Her morning's occupation of washing or house-cleaning being over, the look will probably have to occupy herself with some work in the culinary depart- nent, the making of soup, or preparing sweet dishes for the late dinner; or, if here be children in the family who dine early, she will have to get their dinner. \.t one o'clock, or half-past — THE HOUSEMAID TAKES UP THE LUNCHEON-TRAY. 368. Tlie children's dinner will be served at the same time. The things to bd aken up will depend entirely on the nature of the meal, but for whatever is lerved there must be a sufficient supply of knifes, forks, spoons, plates, glasses, £c., for the number of persons who are to partake of it. While the family are at uncheon the servants will take their dinner. The tray being removed— THE COOK WASHES UP THE THINGS, )roceeding the same as she did with the breakfast things, while the housemaid ;oe8 to her room, changes her morning print dress for a neat stuff, and puts on a ilean white apron, cap, collar, and cuffs. She is then ready to open the door for 'isitors. 369. The afternoon the housemaid will employ, on some days, in starching pnnklmg, or ironing the fine things ; on others she may have some house leedlework, such as hemming dusters and glass-cloths, or mending stockings, heets, &c., to do. o & , 370. Before or at four o'clock, the cook will have to set about getting the Imner ready. If the dinner-hour be half-past six or seven, five will be time nough for the housemaid to begin her preparations. 871. She .should first clran the knives ; this, if done in the patent l.nifo .leaner.Iviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. will bo very little trouble, but they should be carefully dusted afterwards. She will then take up the stand, and place it in the hall in a convenient position, then collect on her tray all the things she will require for laying the table. 372. This will, of course, depend upon the nature of the meal and the number of persons to partake of it. Supposing, then, the dinner to consist of soup, fish, a roast joint, potatoes, vegetables, and a sweet dish, and, as at breakfast, four persons to sit down to table, she will require— 4 Knives. 4 Small knives. 4 Fish knives. 4 Forks. 4 Small forks. 4 Fish forks. 1 Carving knife and fork. 1 Small knil'e and fork for cutting the tart. 1 Fish slice. 1 Pair of knife I'ests. 4 Soup-spoons. 4 Dessert-spoons. 4 Tablespoons. 1 Gravy-spoon. 1 Soup, ladle. 4 Plates. 4 Napkins. 2 Salt-cellars. The cruet-stand. The tablecloth. 4 Tumblers. 4 Sherry glasses. 4 Clarec glasses. 373. She should place the tray on the stand in the hall, or, if the dining-room be large, the stand and tray may be put in a convenient position there, and then proceed to— LAY THE DINWEK-TABLE. 374. She should first spread the cloth, doing it very carefully so as not to crumple or wrinkle it; it should be quite even, an equal length hanging down at the top and bottom of the table and at the sides. 375. She should then put round to each person's place one large, one small, and one fish knife ; then one large, one small, and one fish fork ; leaving a space between the knives and the forks for the plates, and the knives being at the right hand and the forks at the left of the space. Then the carving knives and forks at the master's place at the head of the table ; next his own knives and forks, the rests in front of them. Then a soup-spoon to each person next the knives ; the soup-ladle and gravy-spoon at the master's place, lengthways in front of where the dishes will stand; the fish-slice next to the carving-knives, and the four tablespoons crossways at the right-hand comers. 37G. Then to each person's place a plate in the space between the knives and the forks—these are to rest the soup-plates upon—and on each plate a napkin neatly folded or else rolled in a ring. 377. Tlicn to each person a tumbler, a sherry gloss, and a claret glass. These at the right hand side, close to tholinivos, but not too close.The Cook Gets the Dinner Beady. 378. Then the cruet-stand in the middle of the table, and the two salt-cellara at the corners between the spocms. 379. Thin table-mats at each place where a dish is to stand. 380. She should then bring up and place on the sideboard the bread on the bread-plate or in the bread-basket. She should cut some up^, and place a small piece in the folds of each napkin or beside it. 381. She should also place on the sideboard the bottled ale or stout, if any member of the family is in the habit of partaking of it; and the corkscrew next. Also a jug of cold water, an empty jug for the table beer, if that be used, and a basin of sifted sugar. 382. If cheese be used, that should be placed on the sideboard, and butter on the butter-dish. For this four additional plates will be required, and four knives, which should be also placed on the sideboard. 383. If dessert is taken, that should be placed on the table down the centre, in which case the cruet-stand will be put on the sideboard. For dessert four dessert plates will be required, and four dessert knives and forks, which should be kept on the sideboard till wanted. The wine should bo put on—the sherry at the right-hand top corner, the claret at the right-hand bottom corner, not near the edge of the table, but inside the spoons and salt-cellars. 384. All these things should be scrupulously clean and bright. Before I bringing them up the housemaid ought to go over all the glass with a clean linen cloth, 385. While the housemaid lays the table— THJE COOK GETS THE DINZSTER READY. 386. To send a dinner to table all in nice order and thoroughly well cooked, depends not only on the cook's skill in preparing each particular dish nicely itself, but on her knowledge of how to prepare them all with regard to each other; many people quite capable of frying a dish of fish, or roasting a joint very well, hy themselves, would yet make a complete muddle of a dinner of four courses. 387. The first and most important thing is to set about it in time; nothing can be properly done unless sufficient time is taken to do it in. The next is to under- stand what things in the dinner will bear to bo cooked some little time before they are to be eaten without spoiling, and to get them ready first.Ix Philosophy of Housekeeping. 388. And as the difficulty of cooking a dinner consists, not so much in the number of diehos as in the way they are to bo cooked, if the cook be at all con- sulted by her mistress in the ordering of the dinner, she should take care, above all things, not to have several things to be cooked in the same manner, as, for instance, with soup and boiled fish not to have a boiled joint, and a boiled pudding; or with fried fish, not to have fried cutlets and a fried omelette. With a small open range it is impossible to boil many things at once, and boiled things—particularly fish and puddings—spoil completely by being cooked sooner than required, if left in the water they get sodden, if dished they get flabby. 389. Supposing a dinner to consist of soup, boiled fish requiring 20 minutes to cook, a piece of roast beef, a baked plum-pudding, potatoes and brocoli. The plum-pudding should be made in the morning ; the soup, except the thickening and adding of wine, sauce, &c., should also be made in the morning. 390. The beef should be put down in time to allow a quarter of an hour to every pound, and a quarter of an hour over; if the dinner-time be half-past six she may calculate to have it done at a quarter to seven ; the fish she should calculate to have done at twenty-five minutes to seven; the potatoes and brocoli should not be ready until the beef is to be served; the soup may be drawn aside on the range to let the fish-kettle go on, but the potatoes and brocoh, when once they are put down and have begun to simmer, must be kept so or else they will be spoiled. 391. The soup should be sei'ved punctually at half-past six. The cook should previously have warmed four plates, she should also warm the soup-tureen by rinsing it out with boiling water; and some toasted bread cut up into dice should be served with it if it be brown soup. In dishing it she should be very careful to pour it boldly from the digester into the tureen so that none may drip over the side of the tureen and carry blacks into it, 392. As soon as the soup is served, she should prepare the melted butter for the fish, taking care to have four hot plates and a hot dish ready for it also. 393. The fish being served, she should dish the beef and vegetables, having ready hot plates and dishes for them also. 394. This course will be the longest of any, and while the family are partaking for it, the cook can employ herself washing up the soup and fish plates. 895. The plum-pudding should then bo served, turned out, and sifted sugar strewn over ; it will also require a hot dish and four hot plates. 396, If the housemaid's attendance is required continually in the diniug-Wash up the Dinner Things. room, the cook will have to carry up all the dishes and plates to the hall for ler. 397. The cook should also carry dovm the plates and dishes as each course is tided. 398. Dinner being concluded— THE HOUSEMAID REMOVES THE DINKTER THINGS. 399. She should do all as quickly as possible, but at the same time gently and ra efully, not crashing the glasses together, placing the knives and forks together 1 the kaife-box, piling the plates one over another, but never with the knives, )rks, or spoons left between. When the things are all removed, she should veep the crumbs from the tablecloth with a crumb-brush, and, as soon as 10 cloth is removed, she should rub the table quickly all over with a soft oth. » 400. When the things are taken down, the table-cloth should be immediately laken and folded, and placed in the linen-press. 401. The next work is to— "WASH UP THE DINNER THINGS. 402. In this the housemaid should assist the cook ; she should do the glass and I plate, leaving the plates and dishes and knives to the cook. t| 403. The plates and dishes should be washed in the dish-tub, in very hot water, Hget ofif the grease; they should be allowed to drain, and then wiped very dry 'ih a clean cloth. I 404. The water should not be so hot for the knives. The blades should be held m in the water for a little time, the handles should not touch at all. Thoy tuld be wiped very dry and perfectly free from grease, and then laid aside to I cleaned. 405. For the glasses the water should bo only tepid. They should be rinsed thoroughly and left to drain ; then wiped dry, and well rubbed, to brighten imm, with a clean fine linen"cloth. |406. The silver will require hotter water. They should not be mixed with the fcses at all in the washing, as many of them will be greasy. They should be It wiped dry with a linen cloth, and then rubbed with a leathen.Ixii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 407. When all the things are washed, they should be put by in their proper places. 408. The cook should then clean up all her cooking-uteDsils, and the housemaid i should clean the knives. 409. The cook now takes out a sufificient. supply of coals to last unti the next forenoon. This concludes her work for the day. 410. About eight o'clock— THE HOUSEMAID TAKES TIP THE TKAY For tea, coffee, or whatever else the family may be in the habit of taking in the t evening. When removed, she will wash them up and put them all by in their,- places; and then THE HOUSEMAID SHOULD GO UP TO THE BEDROOMS, Taking the slop-pail with her. She should empty all slops, close the bedroom.-.i windows (in winter these must be shut by three o'clock), and, when desired, the« shutters, and draw the curtain. She should also let down the curtains of the beds, and neatly fold back the bedclothes from the bolster. In doing this, shas should first draw up and fold back the portion of sheet that comes up higher" than the rest of the clothes, then fold them all down together. She should also-' refill with clean cold water any of the water-bottles and jugs that may have beena emptied diu-ing the day. 411. Before going to bed, the housemaid should bring up all the plate to hi mistress, having counted to see if it be all right. If anything is short, .'. instant search should be made ; and, if not found, the mistress should be at one told of the missing article. | 412. The cook will look all the doors, turn off the kitchen gas, and take up tb keys. 413. We have thus given the whole day's work, dividing it as we went; but, t< make it still clearer, we will now make a division of the different departmente o | work. 'I 414. The Kitchens—&nd all the cleaning appertaining to them, and all cookin, except making toast for afternoon or evening tea, belong to the cook. 415. T/ie Bedrooms—and all work appertaining to them, with the exception o - assistance in bcdmaking, belong to the housemaid.Ixiii Furnitiire Polish. 416. The Z)i7iMi^-j-oom—that is, the weekly cleaning of it, falls to the cook'u share. 417. The Drawing-room—io the housemaid. 418. The Breakfast Parlour—io the housemaid. 419. All attendance, except the waiting at breakfast, which the cook does while ,he housemaid is engaged with the bedrooms, falls to the housemaid. Answering loor before twelve, the cook ; afterwards the housemaid. 420. The Glass and the Plate are exclusively the housemaid's care. 421. The Knives are washed by the cook when she washes the other things, but leaned by the housemaid. 422. The Table-Unen is also the housemaid's care, as is the mending of linen oing and returning from the wash. 423. The Boots and Shoes.—The cook does the gentlemen's, the housemaid the idies' boots and shoes. 424. The Washing.—This is divided ; generally the housemaid does all the finer lings, the cook the coarser and heavier, the housemaid having all the starching id ironin'j. But if the cook wore a very good ironer, it would be better for Br to take that, and the housemaid to do more at the washtub. But it is Imost impossible to lay down any definite rules for this department of work, 1 it must depend entirely on the extent of the washing done at home and the bilities of the servants. One general rule for all the work—Both tho cook and pusemaid should be obliging to each other, and endeavour always to facilitate (.oh other in their several duties. And though it is desirable that they adhere much as possible each to her own department of work, j'et neither should Iject, in case of her fellow servant being ill, or getting leave to go out, to Irform her duties for her. 425. FURlSriTURE POLISH. iNOREniENTS.—1 oz. white wax, 1 oz. Naples soap, 1 pint of turpentine, j:ij^int of. boiled soft water. jlfoc^e.—Boil the water, let It get cold, shred the wax and soap into it, stand tn the oven until all is molted ; add the turpentine, drop by drop, stirring til cold. Bottle and cork closely.Ixir Philosophy of Housekeepins. 426. OILCLOTH BESTOHER. Melt ^ oz. of beeswax in a saucer of turpentine, rub tbo sui face of tho oil- cloth all over with it, then rub with a dry cloth. 427. TO CLEAN LOOKING-GLASSES. Sponge the surface with equal parts of gin-and-water; then dust with powder blue, and rub off with au old silk handkerchief ITHE DICTIONAEY OP COOKERY. jMond cake. 'ngredients.—\ lb. of sweet almonds, z. of bitter almonds, 6 eggs, 8 table- onfuls of sifted sugar, 5 tablespoon- j of fine flour, the grated rind of mon, 3 oz. of butter. Mode.—Blanch '. pound the almonds to a paste; arate the whites from the yolks of eggs ; beat the latter, and add them ;he almonds. Stir in the sugar, flour, . lemon-rind ; add the butter, which aid be beaten to a cream ; and, when ihese ingredients are well mixed, put he whites of the eggs, which should whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a 3-mould, put in the mixture, and bake good oven from 1^ to If hour. Time. ; to hour. Average cost, 2s. Qd. onalle at any time. 3MOND CHEESECAKES. i f/redients.—| lb. of sweet almonds, 4 tier ones, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, the r of I lemon, 1 tablcspoonful of lemon- ia, 3 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Blanch B pound the almonds smoothly in a Bar, with a little rose or spring Kr; stir in the eggs, which should be Jjbeaten, and the butter, which should Itarmed ; add the grated lemon-peel •jjuico, sweeten, and stir well until •twhole is thoroughly mixed. Lino patty-pans with puff-paste, put in ttbixture, and bake for 20 minutes, or Ar less, in a quick oven. Time.—20 ■tes, or rather less. Average cost, m Sufficient for about 12 cheesecakes. AlOND PASTE, for Second- li!o\irse Dishes. tb7-edienls.—l lb. of sweet almonds, *ter ones, 1 lb. of very finely-sifted the whites of 2 eggs. Mode. ^h the almonds, and dry them •ughlyj putthem into a mortar, and pound them well, wetting them gradually with the whites of 2 eggs. When well pounded, put them into a small pre- serving-pan, add the sugar, and place the pan on a small but clear fire (a hot plate is better) ; keep stirring until the paste is dry, then take it oat of the pan, put it between two dishes, and, when cold, make it into any shape that fancy may dictate. Time.—h hour. Average cost, 2s. 8d. for the above quantity. Sufficient for 3 small dishes of pastry. Seasonaile at any time. ALMOND PUDDIlSrG-, Baked (very rich). Ingredients.—| lb. of almonds, 4 bitter ditto, 1 glass of sherry, 4 eggs, the rind and juice of ^ lemon, 3 oz. of butter, 1 pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with the water; mix these with the butter, which should be melted ; beat up the eggs, grate the lemon-rind, and strain the juice ; add these, with the cream, sugar, and wine, to the other ingredients, and stir them well together. When well mixed, put it into a pie-dish lined with puff-paste, and bake for ^ hour. To make this pudding more economically, substitute milk for the cream ; but then add rather more than 1 oz. of finely- grated bread. Time.—^ to J hour. Average cost, 3s., with cream at Is. Qd. per pint. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND PUDDINGS, Small. Ingredients.—^ lb. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, ^"ib. of butter, 4 eggs,- 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. il/od!e.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with a spoon- ful of water \ warm {he butter, mix thel^HE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Almond Puffs almonds with this, and add the other ingredients, leaving out tho whites of 2 eggs, and be particular that these ai'o well beaten. Mix well, but- ter some cups, BMAIL ALMOND PUDDINGS. half fill them, and bake the puddings from 20 minutes tcf I hour. Turn them out on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce, or with sifted sugar only. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND PUFFS. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, ■2 oz. of sweet almonds, 4 bitter almonds. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar to a smooth paste ; melt the butter, dredge in the flour, and add the sugar and pounded almonds. Beat the mixture well, and put it into cups or very tiny jelly-pots, which should be well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes, or longer, should the puflfs be large. Turn them out on a dish, the bottom of the puff uppermost, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, 8d. St(fficie7it for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND SOUP. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of lean beef or veal, a few vegetables as for Stock (see Stock), 1 oz. of vermicelli, 4 blades of mace, 6 cloves, h lb. of sweet almonds, the yolks of 6 "eggs, 1 gill of thick cream, rather more than 3 quarts of •water. Mode.—Boil the beef or veal, vegetables, and spices gently in water that will cover them, til) che gravy is very strong, and tho w.aat very tender ; then strain off the grr.vy, !).nd set it on , the fire with the specified quantity of vermicelli to 2 quarts. Lot it boil till sufficiently cooked. Have ready the almonds, blancher] and pounded very fine ; the yolks of the eggs boiled hard; mixing the alm?nds, whilst pounding, with a little of the soup, lest tho latter should grow oily. Pound them to a pulp, and keep adding to them, by degrees, a little soup, until they are thoroughly mixed together. Lot tho soup bo cool when mixing, and do it perfectly smooth. Mtrain it throiujh a sieve, set it on tho Anchovies, Fried I fire, stir frequently, and serve hot. • before taking it up, add tho cream. Ti„ —From 4 to 5 hours to simmer meat i; vegetables; 20 minutes to cook the ^ < micelli. Average cost per quart, 2s. Seasonable all the year. SuffiderU for persons. ANCHOVY BUTTEB. J Ingredients.—To every lb. of butt':- allow 6 anchovies, 1 small bunch parsley. Mode.—Wash, bone, and poun^Ag the anchovies well in a mortar; sc^RB the parsley, chop it, and rub through - • sieve ; then pound all the ingrediei. together, mix well, and make the butt into pats immediately. This makes pretty dish, if fancifully moulded, f breakfast or supper, and should be gai nished with parsley. Average cost, ls.{ ' Sufficient to make 2 dishes, with 4 sn pats each. Seasonable at any time. ANCHOVY SAUCE, for Fish. Ingredients.—4 anchovies, 1 oz. c butter, ^ pint of melted butter, cayen". to taste. Mode.—Bone the anchovic- and pound them in a mortar to a pas' with 1 oz. of butter. Make the i butter hot, stir in the pounded an and cayenne; simmer for 3 or 4 mi!i.;i-- and, if liked, add a squeeze of lcm(L juice. A more general and expeditiou 1 way of making this sauce is to stir r f 1^ tablespoonfuls of anchovy esst ^"pint of melted butter, and i seasoning to taste. Boil the wbolo ^ for 1 minute, and serve hot. Tiiiu.- 5 minutes. Average cost, 6d. for I pii- Sufficient, this quantity, for a brill, sni:^ tui-bot, 2 soles, &c ANCHOVY TOAST. Ingredients.—Toast, 2 or 3 slices f bread, or, if wanted very savoury, fi them in clarified butter, and spr them tho paste made by recipe foi anchovies. Made mustard, or grains of cayenne, may bo added paste befoi'o' laying it on tho toast. ANCHOVIES, Fried. Ingredients.— ! tablespoonful of oi i J a glass of white wine, sufticient flourt I thicken; 12 anchovies. Mode.—Vi]^^^\ oil and wino together, with suflui''' • flo\u' to make them into a thickish i cleanse the anchovies, wipe thciTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 8 Anchovies, Potted 3m in the paste, and fry of a nice brovrn lour. Time.—hour. Average cost, for is quantity, M. Sufficient for 2 per- is. Seasonable all the year. CTCHOVIES, Potted, or Anchovy Butter. Ingredients.—2 dozen anchovies, h lb. fresh butter. Mode.—Wash the an- ovies thoroughly; bone and dry them, d pound them in a mortar to a paste. X the butter gradually with them, and b the whole through a sieve. Put it by small pots for use, and carefully ex- ide the air with a bladder, as it soon anges the colour of anchovies, besides oiling them. To potted anchovies may added pounded mace, cayenne, and tmeg to taste. PPLE CHABLOTTE, a very simple. Ingredients.—9 slices of bread and tter, about 6 good-sized apples, 1 t)lespoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 blespoonfuls of juice, moist sugar to 3te. Mode.—Butter a pie-dish; place layer of bread and butter, without the ust, at the bottom; then a layer of pies, pared, cored, and cut into thin ces; sprinkle over these a portion of e lemon-peel and juice, and sweeten th moist sugar. Place another layer bread and butter, and then one of pies, proceeding in this manner \intii e dish is full; then cover it up with the el of the apples, to preserve the top )m browning or burning; bake in a isk oven for rather more than ^ hour; m the charlotte on a dish, sprinkle "ted sugar over, and serve. Time.— hour, or a few minutes longer. Aver- e cost, Is. Sufficient for -5 or 6 persons. asondUe fi'om August to March. ^ PPLE CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—\ lb, of apple pulp, \ lb. sifted sugar, ^ lb. of butter, 4 eggs, e rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mode.— ,re, core, and boil sufficient apples to ike lb, when cooked; add to tlicse e sugar, the butter, which should bo elted, the eggs, leaving out 2 of tho lites, and the grated rind and juice of smon; stir the mixture well; lino somo tty-pans with puflF-pasto ; put in the xture, and bake about 20 minutes.— me.—About 20 minutes. Average cost, Apple Dtunplings, Boiled for the above quantity, with the paste, l.s. Qd. Sufficient for about 18 or 20 cheesecakes. Seasonable from August t March. APPLE CUSTABD, Baked. Ingredients.—1 dozen large apples, moist sugar to taste, 1 small teacupfu of cold water, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Mode.—^Peel, cut, and core the apples ; put them into a lined saucepan with the cold water, and, as they heat, bruise them to a pulp ; sweeten with moist sugar, and add the gi'ated lemon-rind. When cold, put the fmit at the bottom of a pie-dish, and pour over it a custard, made with the above proportion of milk, eggs, and sugar; gi-ate a little nutmeg over the top, place the dish in a moderate oven, and bake from 25 to 35 minutes. The above proportions will make rather a large dish. Time.—25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, Is. 6d., if fruit has to be bought. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE DUMPLINGS, Baked Plain Family Dish). Ingredients.—6 apples, suet-crust, su- gar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples with a scoop, and make a suet-crust with | lb. of floin" to 6 oz. of suet; roll the apples in the crust, previously sweetening them with moist sugar, and taking care to join the paste nicely. When they are formed into round balls, put them on a tin, and bake them for about ^ hour, or longer, should tho apples be very large ; arrange them pyramidically on a dish, and sift over them some pounded white sugar. These may be made richer by using puff-paste instead of suet-crust. Time.—From h to I hour, or longer. Average cost, li^d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January." APPLE DUMPLmGS, BoUed. Ingredients.—6 apples, suet-crust, sii*- gar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples with a scoop ; sweeten, and roll each apple in a piece of cmst, made with J lb. of flour to 6 oz. of suet, and bo particular that tho paste is nicely joined. Put the dumplings into floured cloths, tie them securely,THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY 4 Apple Fritters and place them in boilinfr water. Keep tliem boiling from ^ to 1 hour ; remove the cloths, and send them hot and quickly to table. Dumplings boiled in knitted cloths have a very pretty appearance ■when they come to table. The cloths should be made square, just large enough to hold one dumpling, and should be knitted in plain knitting, with very coarse cotton. Time.—^ to 1 hour, or longer should the dumplings be very large. Average cost', \hd. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January. APPLE FBITTEBS. Ingredients.—For the batter, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, h oz. of butter, ^ saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, 4 medium-sized apples, hot lard or clari- fied beef-dripping. 3Iocle.—Break the eggs, dividing the whites from the yolks, and beat them separately. Put the flour into a basin, stir in the butter, which should be melted to a cream ; add the Bait, and moisten with sufiicient warm milk to make it of a proper consistency, that is to say, a batter that will drop from the spoon. Stir this well, rub down any lumps that may be seen, add the yolks and then the whites of the eggs, which have been previously well whisked ; beat up the batter for a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Now peel and cut the apples into rather thick whole slices, without dividing them, and stamp out the middle of each slice, where the core is, with a cutter. Throw the slices into the batter; have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping ; take out the pieces of apple one by one, put them into the hot lard, and fry a nice brown, turning them when required. ' When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to absorb the greasy moisture; then dish on a white d'oyley, piling the fritters one above the other; strew over them some pounded sugar, and serve very hot. The flavour of the fritters would be very much improved by soaking the pieces of apple in a little wine, mixed with sugar and lemon-juice, for 3 or 4 hours beforo wanted for table ; the batter, also, is bettor for being mixed some hours beforo the fritters are made. iTime.—From 7 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 6 minutes to drsan tbcm. Average cost, 9d. StcJJicient Apple Jelly for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit weighed after being pared, cored, and sliced, allow 5 lb. of preserving-sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the juice of | lemon. Mode.—Peel the apples, core and slice them very thin, and be particu- lar that they are all the same sort. Put them into a jar, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the applea stew until quite tender. Previously to putting the fruit into the jar, weigh it, to ascertain the proportion of sugar that may be required. Put the apples into a preserving-pan, crush the sugar to small lumps, and add it, with the grated lemon-rind and juice, to the apples. Simmer these over the fire for ^ hour, reckoning from the time the jam begins to simmer properly ; remove the scum as it rises, and, when the jam is done, put it into pots for use. Place a piece of oiled paper over the jam, and, to exclude the air, cover the pots with tissue paper dipped in the white of an egg, and stretched over the top. This jam will keep good for a long time. Time.—From 3 to 4 hours to stew in the jar ; i hoxu" to boil after the jam begins to simmer. Average cost, for this quantity, bs. Suf- ficient.—7 or 8 lbs. of apples for 6 pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in Septem- ber, October, or November, when apples can be bought at a reasonable price. APPLE JELLY. Ingredients.—To G lbs. of apples allow 3 pints of w'ater ; to every quart of juico allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar;—the juice of h lemon. Mode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and put them into a jar, with water in the above proportion. Place them in a cool oven, with the jar well covered, and, when the juice i£ thoroughly drawn and the apples .arc quite soft, strain them through a jelly- bag. To ever}' quart of juico allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, which should bo cnishoc to small lumps, and put into a preserving pan with the j\iico. Boil these togcthei for rather more th.m }, hour, remove th< scum as it rises, add tlie lemon-juice just- before it is done, and put the jolly intal pots for use. This preparation is u.^ertf for garnishing sweet dishes, and niavbi i turned out for dessert. Timc—'uu' !rTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUY. 5 Apple Jelly- apples to be put in the oven over-nigbt, and left till morning ; rather more than J hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonable.—This should be made in Septembor, October, or November. APPLE JELLT. Ingredients.—Apples, water; to every pint of syrup allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the apples into pieces, remove the cores, and put them in a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil for an hour; then drain the syrup from them through a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice ; to every pint allow ^ lb. of loaf sugai-, and boil these together for J hour, removing every particle of scum as it rises, and keeping the jelly well stirred, that it may not burn. A little lemon-rind may be boiled with the apples, and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice may be put in the jelly just before it is done, when the flavour is liked. This jelly may be ornamented with preserved greengages, or any other preserved fruit, and will turn out very prettily for dessert. It should be stored away in small pots. Tivie.—l hour to boil the fruit and water; § hour to boil the juice with the sugar. Average cost, for 6 lbs. of apples, with the other in- gredients in proportion, 3*. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonable.— Make this in September, October, or November. APPLE JELLY, Clear, for imme- diate Eating. Jngrgd{erd».—2 dozen email apples, 1^ pint of spring-water; to every pint of juice allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar, h oz. of ismglass, the rind of ^ lemon. Mode.— Pare, core, and cut the apples into quarters, and boil them, with the lemon- peel, until tender ; then strain off the apples, and run the juice through a jelly- bag ; put the strained juice, with the Bugar and isinglass, which has been pre- T'iously boiled in }, pint of water, into a lined saucepan or preserving-pan ; boil all together for about i hour, and put the jelly into moulds. When this jelly is clear, and turned out well, it makes a pretty addition to the suppor-table, with e littlo custard or whipped cream round Apple Pudding it: a littlo lemon-juice improves the flavour, but it is apt to render the jelly muddy and thick. If required to bo kept any length of time, rather a larger pro- portion of sugar must bo used. Time.— About 1 hour to boil the apples ; t, hour the jelly. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for li-pint mould. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE JELLY, Thick, or Marma. lade, for Entremets or Dessert Dishes. Ingredients.—Apples ; to every lb. of pulp allow ^ Ib. of sugar, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel. Mode.—Peel, core, and boil the apples with only suf- ficient water to prevent them from burn- ing ; beat them to a pulp, and to every lb. of pulp allow the above proportion of sugar in lumps. Dip the lumps into APPLB JBLLT, STUCK WITH ALMONDS. water; put these into a saucepan, and boil till the syrup is thick and can be well skimmed; then add this syrup to the apple pulp, with the minced lemon- peel, and stir it over a quick fire for about 20 minutes, or till the apples cease to stick to the bottom of the pan. The jelly is then done, and may be poured into moulds which have been previously dipped in water, when it will turn out nicoly for dessert or a side dish ; for the latter, a little custard should be pouied round, and it should be gar- nished with strips of citron or stuck with blanched almonds. Tmc—From h to i hour to reduce the apples to a pulp ; 2^ minutes to boil after the sugar is added. Sufficient.—l^Vo. of apple pulp suflicient for a small mould. Seasonable from August to March ; but is best and cheapest in September, October, or November. APPLE PUDDING, Rich Baked. Ingredients.—}-, lb. apple pulp, }, lb. of loaf sugar, G oz.'of butter, tho rind of 18 THE BlCTlONARt OF COOKERY. Apple Pudding lemon, 6 eggs, puff-paste. Mode.—Peel, coro, and cut the apples, as for sauce ; put them into a stewpan, with only just siiflBcient water to prevent thorn from burning, and let them stew until reduced to a pulp. Weigh the pulp, and to every A lb. add the sifted sugar, grated lemon- rind, and G well-beaten eggs. Beat these ingredients well togetlier ; then melt the butter, stir it to the other things, put a border of puff-paste round the dish, and balce for rather more than ^ hour. The butter should not be added until the pudding is ready for the oven. Time.— ^ to I hour. Average cost, Is. lOd. Suffi- cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE PUDDIlSrG-, Baked. Ingredients.—12 large apples, 6 oz. of moist sugar, | lb. of butter, 4 eggs, 1 pint of bread crumbs. Mode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples, as for sauce, and boil them until reduced to a pulp ; then add the butter, melted, and the eggs, which should be well whisked. Beat ujj the pudding for 2 or 3 minutes ; butter a pie- dish ; put in a layer of bread crumbs, tunn the apple, and then another laj^er of bread crumbs ; fiake over these a few tiny pieces of butter, and bake for about h hour. A very good economical pudding made be made merely with apples, boiled and sweetened, with the addition of a few strips of lemon-peel. A layer of bread crumbs should be placed above and below the apples, and the pudding baked for ^ hour. Time.—About ^ hour. Aver- age cost, Is. Qd. Sxijjicient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE PUDDING, Baked (Very Good). Ingredients.—5 moderate-sized apples, 2 tablestioonfiils of finely-chopped suet, 3 egKS, 3 tablcspoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk , add the eggs, whicli should bo well whisked, and put the latter into a •well-buttered pie-dish. Wipe the apjilcs clean, but do not pare them ; cut them in halves, and take out the cores ; lay thoin in the batter, rind uppermost; shako the suet on the top, over winch also grato a little nutmeg; bake in a IQoderate oven for an hour, and cover, Apple Sauce when served, with sifted loaf sugar. This pudding is also very good with the apples pared, sliced, and mixed with the batter. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, 9cZ. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. APPLE PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—Suet crust, apples, sugar to taste, 1 small teaspoonful of finely- minced lemon-peel, 2 tablcspoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make a butter or suet crust by either of the given recipes, using for a moderate-sized pudding from I to 1 lb. of flour, with the other ingre- dients in proportion. Butter a basin ^ line it with some paste ; pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and fill the basin with these; add the sugar, the lemon-peel and juice, and cover with crust; pinch the edges together, flour the cloth, place it over the pudding, tie it securely, and put it into plenty of fast- boiling water ; let it b', il from 2h to 3 hours ; then turn it out of the basin and send to table quickly. Apple puddings may also be boiled in a cloth without a basin; but, when made in this way, must be served without the least delay, as the cmst soon becomes heavy. Apple pudding is a very convenient dish to have when the dinner-hour is rather uncertain, as it does not spoil by being boiled an extra hoiu*; care, however, must be taken to keep it well covered with water all the time, and not to allow it to stop boiling. Time.—From 2h to 3 hours, according to the quality of the apples. Average cost, \0d. Sufficient, made with 1 ib. of flour, for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from August to March ; but the apples become flavour- less and scarco after February, APPLE SAUCE, for Geese, Pork, &c. Ingredients. — 6 good-sized apples, sifted sugar to taste, a piece of buttei- the size of a walnut; water. Mode.—Pare, core, and quarter the apples, and throw them into coid water to preserve their whiteness. Put them in a saucepan, with sufficient water to moisten tliom, and boil till soft enough to pulp. Boat them up, adding suyar to taste, aijd a small ]iicco of butter. This quantity is sufficient for a good-sized tiucen. Time.—According to the apples, about } hour. Average cost, id. Sufficient, this quantity, for a goose or couple of ducki.7 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Apple Snow APPLE SNOW (a pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients. — 10 good-sized apples, the whites of 10 eggs, the rind of 1 lemon, I lb. of pounded sugar. Mode. —^Peel, "core, and cut the apples into quarters, and put them into a saucepan •with the lemon-peel, and sufficient water to prevent them from burning,—rather less than l pint. "When they are tender, take out the peel, beat them into a pulp, let them cool, and stir them to the Iwhites of the eggs, which should be pre- jviously beaten to a strong froth. Add jthe sifted sugar, and continue the whisk- png until the mixtm-e becomes quite stiff, land either heap it on a glass dish or feervo it in small glasses. The dish may me garnished with presented barberries or ttrips of bright-coloured jelly, and a dish Ipf custards should be served with it, or Hijug of cream. Time.—From 30 to 40 [minutes to stew the apples. Average \:ost, Is. Qd. Sufficient to fill a moderate- Ikized glass dish. Seasonable from August BO March. kpPLE SNOWBALLS. H Ingredients. — 2 teacupfuls of rice, l.pples, moist sugar, cloves. Mode.— |}oil the rice and milk until three-parts ■ lone ; then strain it ofi", and pare and lore the apples without dividing them. 1,'ut a small quantity of sugar and a clove Ihto each apple, put the rice round them, Kid tie each ball separately in a cloth, ■toil until the apples are tender ; then l\ke them up, remove the cloths, and lervc. Time.—J hour to boil the rice ieparately ; ^ to 1 hour with the apple. measonable from August to March. iiPPLE SOUFFLE. Ulngredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of Hilk, the rind of J lemon, sugar to taste. Be yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 6, lA oz. " butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of apple mar- dade. Mode.—Boil the milk with the inon-peel until the former is well .voured; then strain it, put in the rice, d let it gradually swell over a slow 0, adding sufficient sugar to sweeten it iely. Then crush the rice to a smooth Ip with the back of a wooden spoon ; 18 the bottom and sides of a round ke-tin with it, and put it into the oven ; set; turn it out of the tin dexterously, I Apple Tart and be careful that the border of rice is firm in every part. Mix with the marma- lade the beaten yolks of eggs and the butter, and stir these over the fire until the mixture thickens. Take it off the fire ; to this add the whites of the eggs, which should be previously beaten to a strong froth ; stir all together, and put it into the rice border. Bake in a moderate oven for about § hour, or until the soufB€ rises very light. It should b© watched, and sei-ved instantly, or it will immediately fall after it is taken from the oven. Time. —^ hour. Average cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient tor 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE TART or PIE. Ingredients. — Puff-paste, apples; to every lb. of unpai-ed apples allow 2 oz. of moist sugar, | teaspoonful of finely- minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make puff-paste by either of the given recipes, with ^ lb, of flour ; place a border of it round the edge of a pie-dish, and fill the dish with apples pared, cored, and cut into slices ; sweeten with moist sugar, add the lemon-peel and juice, and 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water ; cover with crust, cut it evenly round close to the edge of the pie-dish, and bake in a hot oven from ^ to | hour, or rather longer, should the' pie be very large. When it is three-parts done, take it out of the oven, put the white of an egg on a plate, and, with the blade of a knife, whisk it to a froth; brush the pie over with this, then sprinkle upon it some sifted sugar, and then a few drops of water. Put the pie back into the oven, and finish baking, and be particularly careful that it does not catch or biu-n, which _ it is very liable to do after the crust is iced. If made with a plain crust, the icing may be omitted. Many things are suggested for the flavouring of apple pie; some say 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of beer, others the same quantity of sheny, which very much improve the taste ; whilst the old-fashioned addition of a few cloves is, by many persons, preferred to anything else, as also a few slices of quince. Time.—J hour before the cinist is iced; 10 to 15 minutes afterwards. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient.—Allow 2 lbs. of apples to a tart for 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March; but the applea become fjavourlesa after February^,8 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Apple Tart APPLE TART (Creamed). Mode.—Make an apple tart by the preceding recipe, with the exception of omitting the icing. When the tart is baked, cut out the middle of the lid or crust, leaving a border nil round the dish. Fill up with a nicely-made boiled cus- tard, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the pie is ready for table. This tart is usually eaten cold; is rather an old-fashioned dish, but, at the same time, extremely nice. Time.'—\ to ^ hour. Average cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE TRIPLE (a Supper Dish). Ingredients.—10 good-sized apples, the rind of h lemon, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, pint of milk, h, pint of cream, 2 eggs, whipped cream. Mode. — Peel, core, and cut the apples into thin slices, and put them into a sauce- pan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water, the sugar, and minced lemon-rind. Boil all together until quite tender, and pulp the apples through a sieve ; if they ehould not be quite sweet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at the bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. St-ir together the milk, cream, and eggs, with a .'ittle sugar, over the lire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to reach the boiling-point. When thick, take it off the fire ; let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. Whip some cream with sugar, lemon-peel, &c., the same as for other trifles; heap it high over the custard, and the dish is ready for table. It may be garnished as fancy dictates, with strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, &c. Time. —From 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples ; 10 minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Average cost, 2.5., with cream at Is. Qd. per pint. Sufficient for a moderate-sized trifle. Seasonable irom August to March. APPLES h la Portugaise. Ingredients.—8 good boiling apples, I pint of water, 6 oz. of sugar, a Inyer of apple marmalade, 8 preservoil cher- ries, garnishing of apricot jam. MoUe.— Peel the apples, and, with a scoop, take out the cores; boil the fruit in the above proportion of sugar and water, without being too much done, and take (jare the apples do not break. Have ready Apples and Rice some apple mai-maladc; cover the bottom of a glass disb with this, level it, and lay the apples in a sieve to drain; pi'o them neatly on the marmalade, raisiri/ them in tho centre, and place a preservefi cherry in the middle of each. Gambh with strips of candied citron or apricot jam, and the dish is ready for table. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apj:)les. Average cost, Is. Zd. Suf- ficient for 1 entremets. Seasonable from August to Mai'ch. APPLES, Buttered (Sweet Entre- mets). Ingredients. — Apple marmalade or 7 good boiling apples, ^ pint of water, 6 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of butter, a little apricot jam. Mode.—Pare the apples, and take out the cores with a scoop ; boil up the sugar and water for a few minutes ; then lay in the apples and sim- mer them very gently until tender, taking care not to let them break. Hava ready sufficient marmalade made by the recipe for Apple Marmalade, fla- voured with lemon, to cover the bottom of the dish ; arrange the apples on this with a piece of butter placed in each, and in between them a few spoonfuls of apricot jam or marmalade ; put the dish in the oven for 10 minutes, then sprinkle over the top sifted sugar, and either brown it before tho fire or with a salamander, and serve hot. The syrup that the apples were boiled in should bo saved for another time. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples very gently, 10 minutes in the oven. Averagt cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 1 entremets. APPLES and RICE (a Plain Dish). Ingredients.—8 good-sized apples, 3oz. of butter, the rind of h lemon minced very fine, 6 oz. of rice, 1^ pints of milk, sugar to taste, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 6 tablcsiwonfuls of apricot jam. Mode.—Peel the apples, halve them, and take out the cores ; put them into ft stowpan with the butter, and strew suffi- cient sifted sugar over to sweeten thcni nicely, and add tho minced lemon-peel. Stow the apples very gently until tender, taking care they do not break. Boil tho rice, with tho milk, sugar, and nutmeg, until soft, and, when thoroughly done, dish it, piled high in the centre; arringe the apples on it, warm the apricot jam,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEllY. 0 , Apples and Rice ?our it over the whole, and serve hot. 'ime.—About 30 minutes to stew the apples very gently; about f hour to cook the rice. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persona. Seasonable from August to March. APPLES AND RICE (a pretty Dish of). Ingi-edients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, the rind of h lemon, sugar to taste, ^ saltspoonful of salt, 8 apples, \ lb. of sugar, ^ pint of water, I pint of boiled custard. Mode.—Flavour the milk with lemon-rind, by boiling them together for a few minutes ; then take out the peel, and put in the rice, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and boil gently until the rice is quite soft; then let it cool. In the meantime pare, quarter, and core the apples, and boil them until tender in a syrup made with sugar and water in the above proportion; and, when soft, lift them out on a sieve to drain. Now put a middling-sized gallipot in the centre of a dish ; lay the rice all round till the top of the gallipot is reached; smooth the rice with the back of a spoon, and stick the apples into it in rows, one ;row sloping to the right, and the next to the left. Set it in the oven to colour the apples; then, when required for table, iremove the gallipot, garnish the rice with preserved fniits, and pour in the middle BufiBcient custard, made by the recipe for boiled custard, to be level with the top of the rice, and serve hot. Time.—From !l to 30 minutes to stew the apples; hour to simmer the rice ; \ hour to ike. Average cost, Is. Grf. Sufficient r 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from ugust to March. PPLES, Compote of (Soyer's Eecipe,—a Dessert Dish). Ingredients.—6 ripe apples, 1 lemon, lb. of lump sugar, h pint of water. ''ode.—Select tho apples of a moderate ze, peel them, cut them in halves, re- ove the cores, and rub each piece over ith a little lemon. Put the sugar and ater together into a lined saucepan, ..ul let them boil until forming a thickish vnip, when lay in the apples with tho nd of tho lemon cut thin, and tho juico !' tho same. Let the apples simmer jll tender ; then tako them out very ;arofully, drain them ou a sieve, and Apples, Flanc of reduce the syrap by boiling it quickly for a few minutes. When both are cold, arrange tho apples neatly on a glass dish, pour over tho green ange- -^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ lica or can- compote op applbs. died citron. Smaller apples may be dressed in the same manner : they should not be divided in half, but peeled, and the cores pushed out with a vegetatle-cutter. Time.— 10 minutes to boil tho sugar and water together; from 20 to 30 minutes to sim- mer the apples. Average cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLES, Plane of; or Apples in a raised Crust. (Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—% lb. of short crust, 9 moderate-sized apples, the rind and juice of ^ lemon, i^lb. of white sugar, f pint of water, a few strips of candied citron. Mode.—Make a plain stifif short crust, roll it out to the thickness of \ inch, and butter an oval mould ; line it with the crust, and press it carefully all round the sides, to obtain the form of the mould, but bo particular not to break the paste. Pinch the part that just rises above the mould with the paste- pincers, and fill the case with flour; bake it for about ^ hour; then take it out of the oven, remove the flour, put' tho case back in tho oven for another if hour, and do not allow it to get scorched. It is now ready for the apples, which should be prepared in the following manner : peel, and take out the cores with a small knife, or a scoop for the purpose, without dividing the apples ; put them into a small lined saucepan, j ust capable of holding them, with sugar, water, lemon- juice and rind, in the above proportion. Simmer them very gently until tender; then take out the apples, let them cool, arrange them in the flanc or case, and boil down the syrup until reduced to a thick jelly ; pour it over tho apples, andgaiuish with a fow slices of candied citron. A more simple flanc may be made by rolling out the paste, cutting the bottom of a round or oval shape, and then a narrow strip for tho sides : those should bo stuck on with tho white of anTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 10 •Apples, Ginger egg to the buttom piece, and the flanc then filled with raw fruit, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely. It will not require so longbaking as in a mould ; but the crust must be made everywhere of an equal thickness, and so perfectly joined that the juice does not escape. This dish may also be served hot, and should be garnished in the same manner, or a little melted apricot jam may be poured over the apples, which very .much improves their flavour. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour to bake the flanc ; from 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples veiy gently. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 1 entremets or side-dish. Seaso7iable from August to March. APPLES, Ginger (a pretty Supper or Dessert Dish.). Ingredients.—1^ oz. of whole ginger, \ pint of whiskey, 3 lbs. of apples, 2 lbs. of white sugar, the juice of 2 lemons. Mode.—Bruise the ginger, put it into a small jar, pour over sufi&cient whiskey to cover it, and let it remain for 8 days; then cut the apples into thin slices, after paring and coring them ; add the sugar and the lemon-juice, which should be strained ; and simmer all together very gently until the apples are transparent, hwi not broken. Serve cold, and garnish the dish with slices of candied lemon- peel or preserved ginger. Time.—3 days to soak the ginger; about % hour to simmer the apples very gently. Average cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 3 dishes. Sea- sonable from August to March. APPLES Iced, or Apple Hedge- hog. Ingredients. — About 3 dozen good boiling apples, 1 lb. of sugar, ^ pint of water, the rind of ^ lemon minced very fine, the whites of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoon- fuls of pounded sugar, a few sweet al- monds. Mode.—Pool and core a dozen of theapplcswithoutdividingthem.andstew them very gently in a lined saucepan with lb. of the sugar and h pint of water,' and when tender lift them care- fully on to a dish. Have ready tho re- mainder of the apples, pared, cored, and cut into thin slices ; put them into tho same syrup with tho other A lb. of sugar, the lemon-peel, and boil gently until they are reduced to a marmalade ; keep- ing them stirred, to prevent them from burning. Cover tho bottom of the dish Apples in Bed Jelly with some of tho marmalade, and over that a layer of tho stewed apples, in tho insides of which, and between each, placo some of tho marmalade; then placo another layer of apples, and (ill up tho cavities with marmalade as before, form- ing the whole into a raised oval shape. "Whip the whites of the eggs to a sti:l froth, mix with them the pounded sugai-, and cover the apples very smoothly all over with the icing; blanch and cut eacli almond into 4 or 5 strips; place these strip.s at equal distances over the icing, stickin^f up ; sti'cw over a little rough pounde^; sugar, and put the dish in a very slo^■■ oven, to colour the almonds, and so allo" the apples to get warm through. This entremets may also be served cold, and makes a pretty supper-dish. Tim£.— From 20 to 30 minutesto stew the apples. Average cost, 2s. to 2s. Qd. Sufficieid for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable fi-om August to March. APPLES in Red Jelly (a pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, \1 cloves, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, 1 lemon, 2 teacupfuls of water, 1 tablespoonful ol gelatine, a few drops of prepared co- chineal. Mode.—Choose rather large apples; peel them and take out tho cores, either with a scoop or a small silver knife, and put into each apple 2 cloves and as much sifted sugar aa they will hold. Place them, without touching each other, in a large pie-dish ; add more white sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and 2 teacupfuls of water. Bake in tho oven, with a dish over them, until they are done. Look at them frequently, and, as each apple is cooked, place it in a glass dish. They must not be left in the oven after they are done, or they will break, and so would spoil the appearance of the dish. When the apples are neatly arranged in tho dish without tourhing each other, strain the liquor in which they have been stewing into a lined saucepan; add to it the. rind of the lemon, and a tablespoonful of gelatine which has been previously dissolved in cold water, and, if not sweet, a little more sugar, and 6 cloves. Boil till quite clear; colour w-ith a few di-ops of pre- pared cochineal, and strain tho jelll through a double muslin into a jug; let it cool a little; then pour it into the dish round tho apples, when quit« cold,11 rHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY, Apples, to preserve garnish the tops of the apples with a bright-coloured marmalade, jellj', or the white of an egg beaten to a strong froth, with a little silted sugar. Time.—From 30 to 50 minutes to bake the apples. Average cost, Is., with the garnishing. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fi'om August to March, APPLES, to preserve, in Quarters (in imitation of Ginger). Ingredieiits.—To every lb. of apples allow f lb. of sugar, oz. of the best white ginger ; 1 oz. of ginger to every ^ pint of water. Mode.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples, and put the fruit, sugar, and ginger in laj^ers into a wide- mouthed jar, and let them remain for 2 . days ; then infuse 1 oz. of ginger in g pint of boiling water, and cover it closely^ and let it remain for 1 day: this quantity of ginger and water is for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion. Put the apples, &c., into a preserving- pan with the water strained from the ginger, and boil till the apples look clear and the syrup is rich, which will be in about an hour. The rind of a lemon may be added just before the apples have finished boiling ; and great care must be taken not to break the pieces of apple in putting them into the jars. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time.— 2 days for the apples to remain in the jar with sugar, &c. ; 1 day to infuse the ginger ; about 1 hour to boil the apples. Average cost, for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion, 2». 3d. Sufficient.—2> lbs. should fill 3 moderate-sized jars. Seasonable.—"ihis. should be made in September, October, or November, APPLES, Stewed, and Custard (a pretty Dish for a Juvenile Supper). ^ Ingreditnts.—l ^ood-sizeA apples, the Wnd of i lemon or 4 cloves, ^ lb. of sugar, f pint of water, ^ pint of custard. Mode. —Pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them, and if possible, leave the stalks on ; boil the jugarand water together for 10 minutes; then put m the apples with the lemon- nnd or cloves, whichever flavour may be preferred, and simmer gently until they are tender, taking care not to let tbem break. Dish thom neatly on a glass «l8b; reduce the syrup by boiling it Apricot Jam quickly for a few minutes, let it cool a little; then pour it over the apples. Have ready quite § jMnt of custard made by the recipe for Boiled Custard ; pour it round, but not over, the apples when they are quite cold, and the dish is ready for table. A few almonds blanched and cut into strips, and stuck in the ap[iles, would improve their appearance. Time. —From 20 to 30 minutss to stew the apples. Average cost, Is. Sufficient to fill a large glass dish. iSeasoaable from August to March. APKICOT CREAM. Ingredients.—12 to 16 ripe apricots, § lb. of sugar, 1| pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Divide the apricots, take out the stones, and boil them in a syrup made with ^ lb. of sugar and | pint of water, until they form a thin marmalade, which rub through a sieve. Boil the milk with the other ^ lb. of sugar, let it cool a little, then mix with it the j'olks of eggs which have been previously well beaten; put this mixture into a jug, place this jug in boiling water, and stir it one way over the fire until ib thickens ; but on no account let it boil. Strain through a sieve, add the isinglass, previously boiled with a small quantity of water, and keep stirring it till nearly cold; then mix the cream with the apricots; stir well, put it into an oiled mould, and, if convenient, set it on ice ; at any rate, in a very cool place. It should turn out on the dish without any difliculty. In winter-time, when fresh apricots are not obtainable, a little jam may be substituted for them. Time.— From 20 to 30 minutes to boil the apricots. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable in August, September, and October. APRICOT JAM, or Marmalade. Ingredients.—1o every lb. of ripe apricots, weighed after'being skinned and stoned, allow 1 lb. of sugar. Mode. —Pare the apricots, which should be ripe, as thinly as possible, break them in half, and remove the stones. Weigh the fruit, and to every lb. allow the same propor- tion of loaf sugar. Pound the sugar very finely in a mortar, strew it over the apricots, which should bo placed on dishes, and let them remain for 12 hours. Break the stones, blanch the kernels, and put them with the sugar and fruit iato %THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 13 Apricot Pudding presorving-pan. Lot thcso simmer very gently until clear ; take out the pieces of apricot singly as they become so, and, as (ast as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Put the apricots into small jars, pour over them the syrup and kernels, cover the jam with pieces of paper dipped in the purest salad-oil, and stretch over the top of the jars tissue paper, cut about 2 inches larger and brushed over with the white of an egg: when dry, it will be perfectly hard and air-tight. Time.—12 hours, sprinkled with sugar; about J hour to boil the jam. Average cost.—When cheap, apricots may be purchased for preserving at aboiit Is. 6a!. per gallon. Sufficient.—10 lbs. of fruit for 12 pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in August or September. APRICOT PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—12 large apricots, ^ pint of bread crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.—Make the milk boiling hot, and pour it on to the bread crumbs; when half cold, add the sugar, the well-whisked yolks of the eggs, and the sherry. Divide the apricots in half, Bcald them until they are soft, and break them up with a spoon, adding a few of the kernels, which should be well pounded in a mortar; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together, put a border of paste round the dibh, fill with the mix- ture, and bake the pudding from h to hour. Tivie.—^ to f hour. Average cost, in full seaso'n, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October. APHICOT TART. Ingredients.—12 or 14 apricots, sugar to taste, pufF-pasto or short crust. ./l/o(?(?.—Break the apricots in half, take out the stones, and put them into a pie- dish, in the centre of which place a very email cup or jar, bottom uppermost; sweeten with good moist sugar, but add no water. Liuo the edge of the dish with paste, put on the cover, and ornament the pie in any of the usual modes. Bake from i to ^ hour, according to size ; and if puff-pasto is used, glaze it about 10 minutes beforo the pie is done, and put it into the oven again to set the glaze. Short crust merely requires a little sifted Kligtir sprinkled over it bpfovo being scnl; Apricots, Flanc of to table. Green apricots make very good tiirts, but they should be boiled with a little sugar and water beforo they aro covered with the crust. Time.—h to ^ hour. Average cost, in full season. Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October; green ones rather earlier. APRICOTS, Compote of (anelegant Dish). Ingredients.—k pint of syrup («< Syrup), 12 green apricots. Mode.— Make the syrup by the given recipe, and, when it is ready, put in the apricots whilst the syrup is boiling. Simmer them very gently until tender, taking care not to let them break; take them out carefully, arrange them on a glass dish, let the sj'rup cool a Uttle, pour it over the' apricots, and, when cold, serve. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes to simmer the apricots. Average cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June and July, with green apricots. APRICOTS, Flanc of, or Compote of Apricots in a Raised Crust (Sweet Entremets). Ingredients.—| lb. of short crust {see Crust), from 9 to 12 good-sized apricots, f pint of water, h lb. of sugar. Mode.— Make a short crust by the given recipe, and line a mould with it. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes; halve the apricots, take out the stones, and simmer them in the syrup until ten- der ; watch them carefully, and take them up, for fear they should break. Arrargo them neatly in the flanc or case; boil the syrup until reduced to a jelly; pour it over the fruit, and serve either hot or cold. Greengages, plums of all kinds, peaches, &c., may be done in the same manner, as also currants, raspberries, gooseberries, strawberries, &c. ; but with the last-named fruits, a little currant- juice added to them will bo found an improvement. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour to bake the flanc. from 15 to 20 minutes to simmer the npricots. Average cost, is. Gd. Sufficidit for 1 entremets or side-dish. Scasonalle in July, August, and September. The pretty appearance of this dish de- pends on the fruit being whole ; as each apricot is done, it should be taken out of the Bj rup immediately.13 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. April—Bills of Fare AJPBUi-BILLS OF FAHE. Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. Spring Soup, removed by Salmon and Lobster Sauce. a Vase of Flowers. Soles a la CrSme. a OQ O Second Course, Boast Bibs of Lamb. <a a Oj Larded Capon. bj <9 a a "J »' Vase of w I—• P Flowers. «-l O n i Spring Chickens. a Braised Turkey. Entries, Lamb Cutlets, Asparagus and Peas. n <» Vase of Patt ? Flowers. CD m rt- Grenadines de Vean. Third Course. is Dacklings, removed by Cabinet Pudding. O Charlotte ^ g k la Paiisienne. ^ " i-s ^ Vase of S, & Flowers. g ti O Easpberry Cream. P5 5* Nesselrode Pudding. 4) O Dessert and Ices. April—Dinners for 6 persons Dinner for 12 persons. First Course.—Soup k la reine; julienne soup; turbot and lobster sauce; slices of salmon k la gen^v^se. Entrees.—Cro- quettes of leveret; fricandeau de veau • vol-au-vent; stewed mushrooms. Second Course.—Fore-quarter of lamb ; saddle of mutton; boiled chickens, asparagus and peas; boiled tongue garnished with tufts of broccoli ; vegetables. Third Course.—Ducklings; larded guinea-fowls; charlotte k la parisienne; orange jelly; meringues ; ratafia ice pudding ; lobster salad; sea-kale; dessert and ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Gravy soup; salmon and dressed cucumber ; shrimp sauce; fillets of whitings. Entrees.—Lobster cutlets; chicken patties. Second Course.—Eoast fillet of veal; boiled leg of lamb ; ham, garnished with broccoli; vegetables. Third Course.—Ducklings ; compSte of rhubarb; custards; vanilla cream; orange jelly ; cabinet pudding; ice pudding; dessert. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Spring soup ; slices of salmon and caper sauce; fried filleted soles. Entries. — Chicken vol-au-vent; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. Second Course. —Roast loin of veal; boiled fowls h, la bechamel; tongue; vegetables. Third Course.—Guinea-fowls ; sea-kale ; artichoke bottoms ; cabinet pudding ; blancmange ; apricot tartlets ; rice frit- ters ; macaroni and Parmesan cheese; dessert. Dinners for 6 persons. First Course. — Tapioca soup; boiled salmon and lobster sauce. Entries.—■ Sweetbreads; oyster patties. Second Course. — Haunch of mutton ; boiled capon and white sauce; tongue; vege- tables. Third Course.—Souffle of rice ; lemon cream ; charlotte k. la parisienne ; rhubarb tart; dessert. First Course.—Julienne soup ; fried whitings ; rod mullet. Entrees.—Lamb cutlets and cucumbers ; rissoles. Second Course.—Roast ribs of beef; neck of veal Ji la bechamel; vegetables. Third Course,—Ducklings; lemon pudding; rhubarb tart; custards; cheesecakes; dossort.THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Id April—Plain Family Dinners for First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; brill and sbrimp sauce. Entrees. — Trican- deau of veal; lobster cutlets. Second Course.—Eoast fore-quarter of lamb; \)oiled chickens; tongue; vegetables. Third Course.—Goslings; sea-kale; plum pudding ; whipped cream ; compCte of rhubarb; cheesecakes; dessert. First Course. —Ox-tail soup; crimped salmon. Entrees.—Croquettes of chick- en ; mutton cutlets and soubise sauce. Second Course. — Roast fillet of veal; boiled bacon-cheek, garnished with sprouts; boiled capon; vegetables. Third Course.—Sea-kale; lobster salad; cabi- net pudding, ginger cream ; raspberry- jam tartlets ; rhubarb tart; macaroni; dessert. APRIL, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday. — 1. Clear gravy soup. 2. Eoast haunch of mutton, sea-kale, pota- toes. 3. Rhubarb tart, custards in glasses. Monday.—1. Crimped skate and caper sauce. 2. Boiled knuckle of veal and rice, cold mutton, mashed potatoes. 3. Baked plum-pudding. Tuesday.—1. Vegetable soup. 2. Toad- in-the-hole, made from remains of cold mutton. 3. Stewed rhubarb and baked custard puddings. Wednesday.—1. Fried soles, anchovy sauce. 2. Boiled beef and carrots, suet dumplings. 3. Lemon pudding. Thursday.—1. Pea-soup, made with liquor that beef was boiled in. 2. Cold beef, mashed potatoes, mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Bubble-and-squeak made with reniiains of cold beef, roast shoulder of veal stuffed, spinach and potatoes. 2. Boiled batter pudding and sweet sauce. Saturday.—1. Stewed veal with vege- tables, made of remains of cold shoulder, broiled rump-steak and oyster sauce. 2. Yeast dumplings. Sunday.—Boiled salmon and dressed cucumber, anchovy sauce. 2. Roast fore- quarter of lamb, spinach, potatoes, and mint sauce. 3. Rhubarb tart and cheese- cakes. Monday.—CnYncd salmon, made with remains of salmon, dish of boiled rice. 2. Cold lamb, rumiJ-steak and kidney pudding, potatoes. 3. Spinach and poached eggs. Tuesday—I. Scotch mutton broth with Arrowroot Biscuits pearl barley. 2. Boiled neck of mutton,,' caper sauce, suet dumplings, carrots. 3. Baked rice puddings. Wednesday.—1. Boiled mackerel and . ( melted butter and fennel sauce, jjotatoes,.' 2. Roast fillet of veal, bacon and greens.. 3. Fig pudding. Thursday.—1. Flemish soup. 2. Koasf loin of mutton, broccoli, potatoes, ve:; rolls made from remains of cold veal. '6. Boiled rhubarb pudding. Friday.—1. Irish stew or haricot for • cold mutton, minced veal. 2. Half-paj pudding. Saturday.—1. Rump-steak pie, broiled i mutton chops. 2. Baked arrowroot pud- ■ ding. APRIL, Things in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp, cockles, crabs, dory,, flounders, ling, lobsters, red and grej ) mullet, mussels, oysters, perch, prauns,-, salmon (but rather scarc« and expensive), , shad, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, tench,-, turbot, whitings. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls,*, pigeons, pullets, rabbits. Game. —Leverets. Vegetables.—Broccoli, celery, lettuces,5 young onions, parsnips, radishes, smalL salad, sea-kale, spinach, sprouts, variousj herbs. Fruit.—Apples, nuts, pears, forced! cherries, &c. for tarts, rhubarb, dried! fruits, crystallized preserves. <'■ ARROWROOT BISCUITS, OM Drops. Ingredients.—h lb. of butter, 6 eggs, l lb. of flour. 6 oz. of arrowi-oot, A lb. ol poinded loaf sugar. Mode.—Beat tho butter to a cream ; whisk tho eggs to a strong fi'oth, add them to the butter, stir , in the flour a little at a time, and beat the mixture well. Break down all the ; lumps from the arrowroot, and add that ; with the sugar to the other ingredients. Mix all well together, drop the dough on a buttered tin, in pieces the size of a • shilling, and bake the biscuits about J hour in a slow oven. If tho whites of , the eggs are separated from the yolks, and both are beaten separately before being added to the other ingredients, tho biscuits will be much lighter. Time.— I hour. Ai^o'a/je cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient : to make from 3 to 4 dozen biscuits. Sea- ]' sonable at any tirao. r,15 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Arrowroot Blancmange JIEOWBOOT BLANCMANGE (an inexpensive Supper Dish). Ingredients.—i heaped tablespoonfuls ■ arrowroot, 1.^ pint of milk, 3 laurel- aves or the rind of h lemon, sugar to late. jJ/orfe.—Mix to'a smooth batter 18 arrowroot with ^ pint of the milk ; ut the other pint on the fire, with .urel-leaves or lemon-peel, whichever lay be preferred, and let the milk steep Dtil it is well flavoured ; then strain le milk, and add it, boiling, to the lixed arrowroot; sweeten it with sifted igar, and let it boil, stirring it all the me, till it thickens sufficiently to come cm the saucepan. Grease a mould with are salad-oil, pour in the blancmange, ad,when quite set, turn it out on a dish, ad pour round it a compfite of any kind f fi-uit, or garnish it with jam. A iblespoonful of brandy, stirred in just efore the blancmange is moulded, very luch improves the flavour of this sweet ish. Time.—Altogether, i hour. Aver- ge cost, Gd. without the garnishing. ufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seaso7iahle t any time. LEROWHOOT PUDDING, Baked or Boiled. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of arrow- oot, 1.^ pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, the ind of'^ lemon, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls f moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg. fade.—Mix the arrowroot with as much old milk as will make it into a smooth atter, moderately thick ; put the re- aainder of the milk into a stewpan with he lemon-peel, and let it infuse for about hour ; when it boils, strain it gently to ho batter, stirring it all the time to keep t smooth ; then add the butter ; beat his well in until thoroughly mixed, and weeten with moist sugar. Put the mix- ure into a pie-dish, round which has leen placed a border of paste; grate a ittle nutmeg over the top, and bake he pudding from 1 to ],| hour, in a loderate oven, or boil it the same length f time in a well-buttered basin. To nrich this pudding, stir to the other Dgredients, just before it is put in the ven, 3 wcll-whiskcd eggs, and add a ablespoonful of brandy. For a nursery )udding, the addition of the latter ingre- lients will be found quite superfluous, as ,lso the paste round the edge of the dish. rime,—l to 1^ hour, baked or boiled. Artichokes, Boiled Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. ARROWROOT SAUCE, for Pud- dings. Ingredients.—2 small teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, 4 dessertspoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, ^ pint of water. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the water; put this into a stewpan; add the sugar, strained lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg. Stir these ingredients over the fire until they boil, when the sauce is ready for use. A small quantity of wine, or any liqueur, would very much improve the flavour of this sauce : it is usually served with bread, rice, custard, or any dry pudding that is not very rich. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, 4d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. ARROWROOT, to make. Ingredients.—Two teaspoonfuls of ar- rowroot, 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water, ^ pint of boiling water. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot smoothly in a basin with the cold water, then pour on it the ioil- ing water, stirring all the time. The water must be boiling at the time it is poured on the mixture, or it will not thicken; if mixed with hot water only, it must be put into a clean saucepan, and boiled until it thickens ; but this occa- sions more trouble, and is quite unneces- sary, if the water is boiling at first. Put the arrowroot into a tumbler, sweeten it with lump sugar, and flavour it with grated nutmeg or cinnamon, or a piece of lemon-peel, or, when allowed, 3 table- spoonfuls of port or sherry. As arrowroot is in itself flavourless and insipid, it is almost necessary to add the wine to make it palatable. Arrowroot made with milk instead of water is far nicer, but is not so easily digested. It should bo mixed in the same manner, with 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water, the boiling milk then poured on it, and well stirred. When made in this manner, no wine should be added, but merely sugar, and a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel. Time.—If obliged to bo boiled, 2 minutes. Average cost, 2d. per pint. Sufficient to make pint of arrowroot. ARTICHOKES, BoUed, Ingredients,—To each ^gallon of water,THE DICTIONARY 07 COOKERY. IG Artichokes, a French Mode allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a shilling ; arti- 'chokes. Mode.—Wash the artichokes well in several waters ; see that no in- sects remain about them, and trim away JlBTICHOKSS. the leaves at the bottom. Cut ofiF the stems and put them into boiling water, to which has been added salt and soda In the above proportion. Keep the saucepan uncovered, and let them boil quickly until tender; ascertain when they are done by thrusting a fork in them, or by trying if the leaves can JXBUSALEM ABTICHOEXS. be easily removed. Take them out, let them drain for a minute or two, and eerve in a napkin, or with a Httle white eauce poured over. A tureen of melted butter should accompany them. This vegetable, unlike any other, is con- sidered better for being gathered two or three days; but they must be well Boaked and washed previous to dress- ing. Time.—20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Sufficient,—a dish of 5 or 6 for 4 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. AKTICHOKES, a Preneh Mode of Cooking. Ingredients.—5 or 6 artichokes ; to each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, .J teaspoonful of pepper, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the ends of the leaves, as also the stems; put the artichokes into boiling water, with the above proportion of salt, pepi)er, herbs, and butter ; let them boil quickly until tender, keeping the lid of the saucepan off, and when the leaves come out easily, they are cooked enough. To keep them a beautiful green, put a largo piece of cinder into a muslin bag, and let it boil with thcra. Serve with plain melted butter. Tme.—20 to 25 Artichokes, Boiled Jerusalem minutes. Sufficient,—5 or 6 sufficient for • | 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable from J uly to i , the beginning of September. AETICHOKES. Pried (Entremets,. or small dish to be served with i : the Second Course). Ingredients. —5 or 6 artichokes, salt and water: for the batter, — \ lb. ot flour, a little salt, the yolk of 1 egg, milk. Mode.—Trim and boil the arti- i chokes, and rub them over vTith lemon- i juice, to keep them white. When ! they are quite tender, take them up, \. remove the chokes, and divide the .' bottoms; dip each piece into batter, fry r them into hot lard or dripping, and r garnish the dish with crisped parsley. ' Servo with plain melted butter. Time.— t 20 minutes to boil the artichokes, 5 to 7 ' f minutes to fry them. Sufficient,—5 or 6 ' ' for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. 1 ABTICHOKES ^ I'ltalienne. i Ingredients. —4 or 5 artichokes, salt I fc and butter, about ^ pint of good gravy. I Mode. —Trim and cut the artichokes into quarters, and boil them until tender in water mixed with a Uttle salt and butter. When done, drain them well, and lay them all round the dish, with the leaves outside. Have ready some good gravy, highly flavoured with mushrooms; reduce it until quite thick, and pour it round the = ai-tichokes, and serve. Tivie.—20 to 25 minutes to boil the artichokes. Sufficient for one side-dish. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. ABTICHOKES, BoUed Jerusalem. Ingredients.—To each .J gallon of watar • allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; artichokes. Mode.—Wash, peel, and , shape the artichokes iu a round or ' oval form, and put thern into a sauce- pan with sufficient cold water to cover them salted in the abovo proportion. Lot them boil gently until tender ; take them up, drain them, and servo them in a napkin, or plaiu, whichever mode is pre- ferred ; send to table with them a tureen of melted butter or cream sauce, a little of which may be poured over the artichokes • ' when they are not ser\'ed in a napkin. Time.—About twenty minutes after the ' s water boil^ Aveivge cost, 2d, per lb. j17 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Artichokes, Mashed Jerusalem Si fjident,—10 for a dish for 6 persons. iso7iahle,—from September to June. ^jITICHOKES, Mashed Jerusalem. ingredients.—To each | gallon of water 1 oz. of salt, 15 or 16 artichokes, I 02. butter, pepper and salt to taste. Voce.—BoU the artichokes as in the ceding recipe until tender; drain 1 press the water from them, and jcat them up with a fork. "When tho- •oughly mashed and free from lumps, )ut them into a saucepan with the butter nd a seasoning of white pepper and salt; eep stirring over the fire until the itichokes are quite hot, and serve. V pretty way of serving Jerusalem arti- liokes as an entremets, or second course ish, is to shape the artichokes in the arm of a pear, and to serve them covered ith white sauce, garnished with Brus- ;ls sprouts. Time.—About 20 minutes. I rerage cost, 2d. per lb. Sufficient lor 6 or persons. Se<isonable from September J June. .BTICHOKE (Jerusalem) SOUP, sometimes called Palestine Soup (a White Soup). Ingredients.—3 slices of lean bacon or im, I a head of celery, 1 turnip, 1 lion, 3 oz. of butter, 4 lbs. of artichokes, l)int of boiling milk, or ^ pint of boiling eam, salt and cayenne to taste, 2 lumps sugar, 2i quarts of white stock. 'iide.—Put the bacon and vegetables, liich should be cut into thin slices, into 0 stewpan with the butter. Braise cse for i of an hour, keeping them well 1 rred. Wash and pare the artichokes, 1 after cutting them into thin slices, I them, with a pint of stock, to the her ingredients. When these have utly stewed down to a smooth pulp, it in the remainder of the stock. Stir well, adding the seasoning, and when lias simmered for five minutes, pass it mgh a strainer. Now pour it back ) the stewpan, let it again simmer five imtes, taking care to skim it well, and r it to the boiling milk or cream, i vo with small sippets of bread fried butter. Time.—1 hour. Average cost r quart, Is. 2d. Seasonable from Juno October. Sufficient for 8 persons. 3PARAGUS, Boiled. ngredients. —To each J gallon of water Asparagus-Peas allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt: asparagus. Mode.—Asparagus should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut, although it may be kept for a day or two by putting the stalks into cold water , yet to be good, like every other vegetable, it cannot be cooked too fresh. Scrape BOILED ASPAEAGUS. the white part of the stems, beginning from the head, and throw them into cold water; then tie them into bundles of about 20 each, keeping the heads all one way, and cut the stalks evenly, that they may all be the same length; put them into boiling water, with salt in the above ASPABAQUS TONGS. proportion; keep them boiling quickly un- til tender, with the saucepan uncovered. When the asparagus is done, dish it upon toast, which should be dipped in the water it was cooked in, and leave the white ends outward each way, with the points meeting in the middle. Serve with a tureen of melted butter. Time.— 15 to 18 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. the 100 heads. Sitfficient.—Allow about 50 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.— May be had forced from Januaiy, but cheapest in May, June and July. ASPAEAGITS-PEAS (Entremets, or to be served as a Side Dish with the Second Course). Ingredients.—100 heads of asparagus, 2 oz. of butter, a small bunch of jjars- ley, 2 or 3 green onions, flour, 1 lamp of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, salt. Mode.—Care- fully scrape the asparagus, cut it into pieces of an equal size, avoiding that which is in tho least hard or tough, and throw them into cold water. Then boil tho asparagus in salt and water untU three-parts done; take it out, drain, and placo it on a cloth to dry tho moistiu-e away from it. Put it into a stewpan with tho butter, parsley, and onions, and shako over a brisk fire for 10 minutes. Dredge in a littlo flour, add the sugar,THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 18 Asparagus Pudding and moisten with boiling water. When boiled a short time and reduced, take out the parsley and onions, thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with the cream ; add a seasoning of salt, and when the whole is on the point of sim- mering, serve. Make the sauce suffi- ciently thick to adhere to the vegetable. Time.—Altogether, ^hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. a pint. Seasonable in May, June, and July. ASPARAGUS PUDDING (a deU- cious Dish, to be served with the Second Course). Ingredients.—§ pint of asparagus peas, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 table- spoonful of very finely minced ham, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, milk. Mode.-—Cut up the nice g^een tender parts of asparagus, about the size of peas; put them into a basin with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper, and salt. Mix all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufiicient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter; put it into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for 2 hours ; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour plain melted but- ter round, but not over, the pudding. Green peas pudding may be made in exactly the same manner, substituting peas for the asparagus. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Seasonable in May, June, and July. ASPAHAGUS SOUP. Ingredients.—100 heads of asparagus, 2 quarts of medium stock (see Stock), 1 pint of water, salt. Mode.—Scraj^e the asparagus, but do not cut off any of the stems, and boil it in a pint of water salted, until the heads are nearly done. Then drain the asparagus, cut ofi" the green heads veiy neatly, and put them on one side until the soup is ready. If the stock is not made, add the stems of asparagus to the rest of the vegetables; if, however, the stock is ready, boil the stems a little longer in the same water that they were first cooked in. Then strain them off, add the asparagiis water to the stock, and when all is boiling drop in the green heads (or peas as they are called), and simmer for 2 «vr 3 miuutoa. August—Bills of Fare If the soup boils long after the asparagJi is put in, the appearance of the vegeta'jle would be quite spoiled. A small quvn- tity of sherry, added after the soup is put into the tureen, would improve this Bup very much. Sometimes a French roU is cut up and served in it. Tims.—To nearly cook the asparagus, 12 mirutes. Average cost. Is. 9d. per quart. SuficieiU for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable from ilay to August. ASPIC, or Ornamental Savoury JeUy. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 1 cow-heel, 3 or 4 slices of ham, any poultry trimmings, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 1 glass of sherry, 3 quarts of water; seasoning to taste of salt and whole white pep- per ; 3 eggs. Mode.—Lay the ham on the bottom of a stewpan, cut up the veal and cow-heel into small pieces, and lay them on the ham; add tha poultry trimmings, vegetables, herbs, sheiTy, and water, and let the whole simmer very gently for 4 hours, carefully taking away all scum that may rise to the surface ; strain through a fine sieve, and pour into an earthen pan to get cold. Have ready a clean stewpan, put in the jelly, and be particular to leave the sedi- ment behind, or it will not be clear. Add the whites of 3 eggs, with salt and pepper, to clainfy; keep stirring over the fii-e till the whole becomes very white ; then draw it to the side, and lot it stand till clear. When this is the case, strain it through a cloth or jelly-bag, and use it for moulding poultry, &c. Tarra- gon vinegar may be added to give an additional flavour. Time.—Altogether 4^ hours. A verage cost for this quantity, it. AUGUST-BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for 18 persons. Fi7-st Cora-se. Mock-Tnrtle Soup, removed by Broiled Salmon and » Caper Sauce, p. K Vase of g: Flowers. (D Sonp h la Julienne, removed by Brill and Shrimp Sauce.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 19 August—Bills of Fare Second Course. s \ Haunch of Venison. Ham, garnislied. Vase of Flowers, Leveret Pie, Saddle of Mutton, S o 1^ O Entrees. a P< Fricandeau de Veau a la Jardiniere. Vase of Flowers. Fillets of Ducks and Peas. ^ . 0} a> 5 « T/aVci Course. cot* CD O Grouse removed by 9 Cabinet Pudding, 2. Fruit Jelly. Vase of Flowers. Vol-au-Vent of § Pears. 5^ Larded Peahen, removed by Iced Pudding. ■3 IE Dessert and Ices, |inner for 12 persons. Ii''irs< Course.—Vermicelli soup; soup ' la reino ; boiled salmon; fried floun- prs; trout en matelot. Entrees. — jwed pigeons; sweetbreads ; ragotit ducks; fillets of chickens and musb- oms. Second Course. — Quarter of lb ; cotellctto de boeuf la jardiniere; let fowls and boiled tongue ; bacon lid beans. TIdrd Course.—Grouse ; leatears; greengage tart; whipped August, Plain Family Dinners for cream; vol-au-vent of plums; fruit jelly; iced pudding; cabinet pudding; dessert and ices. soup; filleta Dinner for 8 persons. First Cojirsg.—Julienne of turbot and Dutch sauce ; red mullet. Entrees. — Riz de veau aux tomates ; fillets of ducks and peas. Second Course. —Haunch of venison ; boiled capon and oysters ; ham, garnished; vegetables. Third Co?irse. ~ Leveret; fruit jelly; compote of greengages; plum tart; custards, in glasses; omelette soufS€; dessei-t and ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Macaroni soup; crimped salmon and sauce Hollandaise; fried fillets of trout. Entrees. — Tendrons de veau and stewed peas; salmi of grouse. Second Course.—Roast loin of veal ; boiled bacon, garnished with French beans ; stewed beef a la jar- dinifere; vegetables. Third Course.— Turkey poult; plum tart ; custard pud- ding ; vol-au-vent of pears ; strawberiy cream : ratafia souffle : dessert. First Course.—Vegetable-marrow soup; stewed mullet; fillets of salmon and ra- vigotte sauce. Entrees.—Curried lob- ster ; fricandeau de veau h la jardiniere. Second Course.—Roast saddle of mutton ; stewed shoulder of veal, garnished with forcemeat balls; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast grouse and bread sauce; vol-au-vent of greengages ; fruit jelly; raspberry cream ; custards; fig pudding; dessert. AUGUST, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Vegetable-marrow soup. 2. Roast quarter of lamb, mint sauce; French beans and potatoes. 3. Rasp- berry-and-currant tart, custard pudding. Monday.—1. Cold lamb and salad, small meat-pie, vegetable marrow, and white sauce. 2. Lemon dumplings. Tuesday.—1. Boiled mackerel. 2. Stowed loin of veal, French beans and potatoes. S. Baked raspberry pudding. Wednesday/.—1. Vegetable soup. 2. Lamb cutlets and French beans ; the re- mains of stewed shoulder of veal, mashed vegetable marrow, 3, Black-currant pudding.20 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. August, Things in Season Tlmrsday.— l. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, French beans and potatoes. 2. Bread-and-butter pudding. Friday.—I. Fried soles and molted butter. 2. Cold beef and salad, lamb cutlets and mashed potatoes. 3. Cau- liflowers and white sauce instead of pudding. Saturday.—1. Stewed beef and vege- tables, with remains of cold beef ; mutton pudding. 2. Macaroni and cheese. Sunday.—1. Salmon pudding. 2. Roast fillet of veal, boiled bacon-cheek garnished with tufts of cauliflowers, French beans and potatoes. 3. Plum tart, boiled custard pudding. Monday.—1. Baked soles. 2. Cold veal and bacon, salad, mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Boiled currant pudding. Tuesday.—1. Rice soup. 2. Roast fowls and water-cresses, boiled knuckle of ham, minced veal garnished with crolitone ; vegetables. 3. College pud- ding. Wednesday.—1. Curried fowl with re- mains of cold fowl; dish of rice, stewed rump-steak and vegetables. 2. Plum tart. Thursday.—1. Boiled brisket of beef, carrots, turnips, suet dumplings, and potatoes. 2. Baked bread pudding. Friday.—1. Vegetable soup, made from liquor that beef was boiled in. 2. Cold beef and dressed cucumber, veal cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Fondue. Saturday. — 1. Babble - and - squeak, made from remains of cold beef; cold yeal-and-ham pie, salad. 2. Baked rasp- Dorry pudding. AUGUST, Tilings in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp,[chub, crayfish, crabs, doiy, eels, flounders, grigs, herrings, lobsters, mullet, pike, prawns, salmon, shrimps, skate, soles, sturgeon, thorn- back, trout, turbot. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, pigeons, plovers, pullets, ►abbits, turkey poults, wboatoars, wild iucks. Oame.—Leverets, grouse, blackcock. Vegetables. Artichokes, asparagus, jeans, carrots, cabbages, cauliflowers, <elery, cresses, endive, lettuces, mush- Bacon, BroUed Bashera of rooms, onions, peas, potatoes, radisles, sea-kale, small salading, sprouts, mx. nips, various kitchen herbs, vegetable marrows. i^rwii.—Currants, figs, filberts, goose- berries, grapes, melons, mulberries, neo. tarines, peaches, pears, pineappleB,pluim raspberries, walnuts. BACON", BoUed, Ingredients.—Bacon ; water. Mode.— As bacon is frequently excessively salt, let it be soaked in warm water for an hour or two previous to dressing it; then pare off the rusty parts, and scrape th-. under- side and rind as clean as possible. Put it into a saucepan of cold wa- BOILED BACOir. ter; let it come gradually to a boil, and as fast as the scum rises to the surface of the water, remove it. Let it simmer very gently until it is thoroughly done ; then take it up, strip off the skin, and sprinkle ov^ the bacon a few bread raspings, anol garnish with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels sprouts. When served alone, young and tender broad beans or green peas are the usual accompanimcMs. Time.—IVo. of bacon, J hour; 2 : , 1.] hour. Average cost, \0d. to Is. per ib, fo'r the primest parts. Sufficient—2 lbs., when served with poultry or veal, suflij cient for 10 pereons. Seasonalle at time. BACOU", Broiled Bashers of. Before purchasing bacon, ascertain I it is perfectly free from rust, which ; easily be detected by its yellow colourt"^ and for broiling, the streaked part of thf > thick flank is generally the most teemed. Cut it into Ihin slices, takel the rind, and broil over a nice clear f ' turn it two or three times, and serve i liot. Should there bo any cold ba left from the previous day, it ansv very well for breakfast, cut into slices and broiled or fried. Time.—3 or'. minutes. Average cost, lOd. to 1.'. lb. for the primest parts. Seasonable a any time. iVoie.—\Vhon the bacon is cut vorj thin, the bUccs may be billed round an'21 TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Jacon and Hams, Curing of ItAied by means of small skewe»'s, and lor toasted before the fire. lOON and HAMS, Curing of. 10 carcass of the hog, after hanging br-night to cool, is laid on a strong aoh or stool, and the head is separated the body at the neck close behind I ears; the feet and also the internal are removed. The carcass is next ided into two sides in the following aner:—The ribs are divided about an from the spine on each side, and spine, with the ends of the ribs iched, together with the internal between it and the kidneys, and the flesh above it, throughout the dIb length of the sides, are removed. I portion of the carcass thus cut out the form of a wedge—the breadth Ihe interior consisting of the breadth phe spine, and about an inch of the on each side, being diminished to ^ut half an inch at the exterior or skin the back. The breast-bone, and I the first anterior rib, are also dis- ked from the side. Sometimes the pie of the ribs are removed ; but this, ■reasons afterwards to be noticed, is |ery bad practice. When the hams cured separately from the sides, Ich is generally the case, they are cut 1 so as to include the hock-bone, in a lilar manner to the London mode of Jbing a haunch of mutton. The carcass Ihe hog thus cut up is ready for being ed, which process, in large curing es- Ilishracnts, is generally as follows:— I skin side of the pork is rubbed over , a mixtiu-e of fifty parts by weight It, and one part of saltpetre in ^der, and the incised parts of the ham itch, and tho inside of tho flitch. Bred with the same. The salted bacon, airs of flitches with the insides to , other, is piled one pair of flitches re another on benches slightly in- and furnished with spouts or ggns to convey tho brine to receivers le floor of the salting-house, to bo krwards used for pickling pork for hr purposes. In this state the bacon laiDS a fortnight, which is sufiicienb iflitches cut from hogs of a carcass ?ht less than 15 stone (14 lbs. to the ^e). _ Flitches of a larger size, at tho ation of that timo, are wiped dry I reversed in their place in the pile, Ivg, at the same timo, about half tho Bacon and Hams, Curing of first quantity of fresh, dry, common salt sprinkled over the inside and incised parts; after which they remain on the benches for another week. Hams being thicker than flitches, will require, when less than 20 lbs. weight, 3 weeks ; and when above that weight, 4 weeks to re- main under the above described process. The next and last process in the prepa- ration of bacon and hams, previous to being sent to market, is diying. This is eflfected by hanging the flitches and hams for 2 or 3 weeks in a room heated by stoves, or in a smoke-house, in which they are exposed for the same length of time to the smoke ai-ising from the slow combustion of the sawdust of oak or other hard wood. The latter mode of com- pleting the curing process has some advantages over the other, as by it the meat is subject to the action of creosote, a volatile oil produced by the combustion of the sawdust, which is powerfully anti- septic. The process also furnishing a thin covering of a resinous varnish, ex- cludes the air not only from the muscle, but also from the fat—thus effectually preventing the meat from becoming rusted ; and the principal reasons for condemning the practice of removing the ribs from the flitches of pork are, that by so doing the meat becomes un- pleasantly hard and pungent in the pro- cess of salting, and, by being more ex- posed to the action of the air, becomes sooner and more extensively rusted. Notwithstanding its superior efficacy in completing the process of curing, the flavour which smoke-drying imparts to meat is disliked by many persons, and it is therefore by no means the most gene- ral mode of drying adopted by mercantile curcrs. A very impure variety oipyro- ligneous acid, or vinegar made from the destructive distillation of wood, is some- times used, on account of tho highly preservative power of the creosote which it contains, and also to impart the smoke- flavour ; in which latter object, however, tho coarse flavour of tar is given, rathe'' than that derived from the smoko from combustion of wood. A considerable portion of tho bacon and hams salted in Ireland is exported from that country packed amongst salt, in bales, immed: ately from the salting process, without having been in any degree dried. In the f)rocess of salting above described, pork OSes from 8 to 10 per cent, of its weight, according to the size and quality of tiieTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bacon, to Cure and Keep meat ; and a further dimimition of weight, to tho extent of 5 to 6 per cent, takes place in drying during tho first fortnight after being taken out of salt; so that tho total loss in weight occasioned by the preparation of bacon and hams in a proper state for market, is not less on an average than 15 per cent, on tho weight of the fresh pork. BACON, to Cure and Keep it free from Bust (Cobbett's Kecipe). The two sides that remain, and which are called flitches, are to be cured for bacon. They are first rubbed with salt on their insides, or flesh sides, then placed one on the other, the flesh sides upper- most, in a salting-trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine; for, to have sweet and fine bacon, the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it tho sort of vile taste that barrel and sea pork have. Every one knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state ; therefore change the salt often,— once in 4 or 5 days ; let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; twice change the flitches, put that at bottom which was first on the top : this mode will cost you a great deal more in salt than the sopping mode, but without it your bacon will not be so sweet and flne, nor keep so well. As for the time required in making your flitches sufficiently salt, it depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place ; but for the flitches of a hog of five score, in weather not very dry or damp, about 6 weeks may do ; and as yours is to be fat, which receives little injury from over-salting, give time enough, for you are to havo bacon untU Christmas comes again. Tho place for salting should, like a dairy, always bo cool, but well ventilated; confined air, though cool, will taint meat sooner than the midday sun accompanied by a breeze. With regard to smoking the bacon, two precautions are necessary : first, to hang the flitches where no rain comes down upon them ; and next, that the smoke must proceed from wood, not poat, turf, or coal. As to tho time required to smoke a flitch, it depends a good deal upon whether there be a constant fire beneath ; and whether the fire be large or small: a mouth will do, if the fire be pretty- Bacon or Hams, to Cure constant and rich, as a farm-hou o fi usually is ; but over-smoking, or ruth too long hanging in tho air, makes tl bacon rust; great attention shoul'i iher fore be paid to this matter. Tl.o fiit- ought not to be dried up to the Lai dij^ of aboard, and yet it ought to be i fectly dry. Before you hang it up, lay on the floor, scatter the flesh side pret thickly over with bran, or willi soi fine sawdust, not of deal or fir; n;'^ if the flesh, or pat it well down i this keeps the smoke from gett the little openings, and makes a uj i crust to be dried on. To keep the Kac. sweet and good, and free from Loji]iei sift fine some clean and dry wood ashc Put some at the bottom of a box or chf long enough to hold a flitch of bacon ; 1 in one flitch, then put in more ashe.~, th another flitch, and cover this wiili six eight inches ot the ashes. The place v h£ tho box or chest is kept ought to ' ;! and, should the ashes become dai should be put in the fireplace to ■ when cold, put back again. Wit precautions, the bacon will be as the end of the year as on the first il simple general rules, these may be aai- taken as a guide ; and those who imp citly follow the directions givenji| possess at the expiration of from 6 '^H to 2 months well-flavoured and well-^H bacon. BACOlSr or HAMS, to Cure Devonshire -way. Ingredients.—To eveiy 14 lbs. of-^H allow 2 oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of saUH nella, 1 lb. of common salt. FomI pickle, 3 gallons of water, 5 lbs. of comlM salt, 7 lbs. of coai"se sugar, 3 lbs. of b' salt. Mode.—Weigh the sides, han and cheeks, and toeverj' 14 lbs. al:>'wt above proportion of saltpetre, salt pi nella, and common salt. Pound and n these together, and rub well into t meat; lay it in a stone trough or ti rubbing it thoroughlj', and turning daily for two successive days. A: < end of tho second day, pour on it a pid made .as follows :—Put the above i4 J dients into a saucepan, set it on thall and stir frequently; remove all tho^M allow it to boil for i hour, and P^M hot over the meat. Let tho bams,^! be well rubbed and turned daily ; <Wl moat is small, a fortnight will boJM cient for the sides end shoulders fll^3 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bacon, to Cure indn the pickle, and the hams 3 weeks; roin 30 lbs. and upwards, 3 weeks will required tor the sides, &c., and from > 5 weeks for the hams. On taking pieces out, let them drain for an ir, cover with dry sawdust, and smoke n a fortnight to three weeks. Boil carefully skim the pickle after using, it will keep good, closely corked, for jars, Wlien boiling it for use, add at 2 lbs. of common salt, and the e of treacle, to allow for waste, gues are excellent put into this pickle 1, having been first rubbed well with netre and salt, and allowed to remain i )urs, not forgetting to make a deep sion under the thick part of the rue, so as to allow the pickle to 3trate more readily. A fortnight or e weeks, according to the size of the fue, will be sufficient. Time.—Small t to remain in the pickle a fortnight, s 3 weeks ; to be smoked from a fort- it to 3 weeks, CON", to Cure in the Wiltshire wuy. ^redients.—\\lb, of coarse sugar \ lb, S.y salt, 6 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of ion salt. Mode.—Sprinkle each ditch salt, and let the blood drain olf for urs ; then pound and mix the above idients well together and rub it well the meat, which should be turned r day for a month ; then hang it to and afterwards smoke it for 10 days. !.—To remain in the pickle from > to four weeks, to be smoked 10 or rather longer. IJON, Fried Rashers of, and •cached Eggs. jredients.—Bacon ; eggs. Mode.— ho bacon into thin slices, trim away Tisty parts, and cut off the rind. Put ^fto a cold frying-pan, that is to say, Dt place the pan on the fire before tho 's in it. Turn it 2 or 3 times, and on a very hot dish. Poach the eggs jp them on to the bacon without ng the yolks, and serve quickly. —3 or 4 minutes. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for tho primest parts. ',nt.—Allow 6 eggs for 3 persons, able at any time. Note. — Fried s of bacon, curled, servo as a garnish to many dishes ; and, for families, answer very well as a Barberries substitute for boiled bacon, to serve with a small dish of poultry, &c. The Bain Marie, — Ifc is an open kind of vessel, as shown in the engrav- ing, and is a utensil much used in modern THE BAIN MAHIE, cookery, both in English and French kitchens. It is filled with boiling or nearly boiling water ; and into this water should be put all the stewpans containing those ingredients which it is desired to keep hot. The quantity and quality of the contents of these vessels are not at all affected; and if the hour of dinner is uncertain in any establishment, by reason of the nature of the master's business, nothing is so sure a means of preserving the flavour of all dishes as the employ- ment of the bain maiie. BARBEL. Ingredients.—I pint of port wine, a saltspoonful of "salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 sliced onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, nutmeg and mace to taste, the juice of a lemon, 2 anchovies; 1 or 2 barbels, according to size. Mode. —Boil the barbels in salt and water till done ; pour off some of the water, and to the remainder put the ingredients mentioned above. Simmer gently for ^ hour or rather more, and strain. Put in tho fishj heat it gradually, but do not let itboil, or it will be broken. Time.—Alto- gether 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable ivom September to November. BARBERRIES (Berberris vulgaris). A fruit of such great acidity, that even birds refuse to eat it. In this respect, it nearly approaches the tamarind. When boiled with sugar, it makes a very agree- able preserve or jolly, according to tho dilForent modes of preparing it. Barber- ries are also used as a dry sweetmeat, and in sugai-plums or comfits; are pickled with vinegar, and are used for various culinary purposes. They are well calculated to allay heat and thirst in persons afflicted with fevers. The berries, arranged oa2i The dictionary op cookeiiy. Barberries, to preserve bunshes of nicely curled parsley, make an exceedingly pretty garnish for supper dishes, particularly for white meats, like boiled fowl h la B<5chamel, the three colours, scarlet, green, and white, con- trasting well, and i)roducing a very good effect. BABBERBIES, to preserve in Buncbes. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, barber- ries. Mode.—Prepare some small pieces of clean white wood, 3 inches long and ^ inoh wide, and tie the fruit on to these in nice bunches. Have ready some clear syrup (see Syrup) ; put in the barbel ries, and simmer them in it for 2 successive days, boiling them for nearly ^ hour each day, and covering them each time with the syrup when cold. When the fruit looks P'^rfectly clear it is suffi- ciently done, aud should be stowed away in pots, with the syrup poured over, or the fruit may be candied. Time.—h hour to simmer each day. Seasonable in'autumn. BABLEY SOUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, \ lb. of pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, 4 onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Put in all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 3 hours. Time,—3 hours. Average cost, 2hd. per quart. Seasonable all the year, Gut more suitable for winter. BAELEY-SUGAB, to make. Ingredients.—To every lb. of sugar allow ^ pint of water, ^ the white of an egg. Mode.—Put the sugar into a well- tinned saucepan, with the water, and, when the former is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, adding the well-beaten egg before the mixture gets warm, and stir it well together. When it boils, remove the scum as it rises, and keep it boiling until no more appears, and the syrup looks ])erfect]y clear ; then strain if through a iine sieve or muslin bag, and put it back into the saucejian. Boil it a^ain like caramel, until it is brittle, when a little is dropjjed in a basin of cold water: it is tlien sufficiently boiled. Add a little lemon-juice and a few drops of essence of lemon, and let it stand for a minute or two. Have ready a marble slab or largo dihb, rubbed over with salad-oil J pour on it the sugarj and cut Batter Pudding it into strips with a pair of Bcissora these strips should then be twisted, anc the barley-sugar stored away in a verj dry place. It may be formed in|d lozenges or drops, by dropping the sugn in a very small quantity at a time on the oiled slab or dish. Tir/ie.—\ hot Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 6 or i sticks. BABLEY-WATER, to make. ' Ingredients.—2 oz. of pearl barley, quarts of boiling water, 1 pint of cc'. water. Mode.—Wash the barley in col water; put it into a saucepan with tl above proportion of cold water, and whe it has boiled for about ^ hour, strain ol the water, and add the 2 quarts of fresl , boiling water. Boil it until the liquid i i reduced one half; strain it, and it wiJ j be ready for use. It may be fiavourec j with lemon-peel, after being sweetened { or a small piece may be simmered wit! the barley. When the invalid may tak it, a little lemon-juice gives this plei drink in illness a very nice flavour; does also a small quantity of port Time.—To boil until the liquid is redui one half. Sufficient to make 1 quaii o barley-water. BATTEB PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—1^ pint of milk, 4 table spoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs a little salt. Mode.—Mix the flour witi a small quantity of cold milk ; make th remainder hot, and pour it on to the fltnii keeping the mixture well stirred ; add th butter, eggs, and salt; beat the who! well, and put the pudding into a buttcre pie-dish ; bake for J hour, and serve wit sweet sauce, wine sauce, or stewed fruit Baked in small cups, very pretty litti puddings may be made ; they should T' eaten with the same accompaniraent4| above. Time. —^ hour. A verage cost, \ Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season ' at any time. BATTEB PUDDING, Baked,' Dried or Fresh Frmt. Ingredients.—li pint of milk, 4 spoonfuls of flour, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of fi: shredded .suet, I lb. of currants, a pi of salt. Mode.—Mix the milk, flour, _ eggs to a smooth batter; add a Ul salt, the suet, and the currants, wt^ should be well washed, picked, and drifl^*25 THE DIOTIONAET OF COOKERY. Batter Pudding, Boiled the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, bake in a moderate oven for 1| hour, en fresh fruits are in season, this .ding is exceedingly nice, with dam- !, plums, red currants, gooseberries, ipples; when made with these, the ding must be thickly sprinkled over 1 sifted sugar. Boiled batter pudding, 1 fruit, is made in the same manner, Imtting the fruit into a buttered basin, t filling it up with batter made in the t ve proportion, but omitting the suet. Inust be sent quickly to table, and C-^red plentifully with sifted sugar. i'r. —Baked batter pudding, with fruit, ] o 1A hour; boiled ditto, 1J to 1| hour, awing that both are made with the fl ve proportion of batter. Smaller pud- i ■;s will be done enough in ^ or 1 hour. umfje cost, lOd. Svfficient for 7 or 8 ions. Seasonable at any time, with d fruits. ITTER PUDDING, Boiled. '■ 'fjredienis.—S eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 1 at of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a tl 0 sal t. Mode. —Put the flour into a and add sufficient milk to moisten . irefully rub down all the lumps with aoon, then pour iu the remainder of y milk, and stir in the butter, which i be previously melted; keep beat- ii lO mixture, add the eggs and a pinch e lit, and, when the batter is quite f jth, put it into a well-buttered basin, ti t down vei-y tightly, and put it into ' • ::; water ; move the basin about for minutes after it is put into the , to prevent the flour settling in any tnd boil for 1,^ hour. This pudding a also be boiled in a floured cloth tlv>t h been wetted in hot water: it will ' ake a few minutes less than when i in a basin. Send batter puddings « quickly to table, and sei-ve with SI it sauce, wine sauce, stewed fruit, or jl of any kind : when the latter is used, M'.le of it may be placed round the dish U mil quantities, as a garnish. Time. 1; our in a basin, 1 hour in a cloth. aije cost, Id. Sufficient for 6 or 6 )5n8. Seasonable at any time. iJlpTER PUDDING, with Orange !armalade. \,gredienls.—i eggs, 1 pint of milk, of loaf su^ar, 3 tablespoonfuls of Mode.—Mako the batter with the Beans, Broad, a la Poulette above ingi-edients, put it into a well- buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 1 hour. As soon as it is turned out of the basin, put a small jar of orange marmalade all over the top, and send the pudding very quickly to table. It is advisable to warm the mar- malade to make it liquid. Time. —1 hour. Average cost, with the marmalade. Is. 3tZ. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time; but more suitable for a winter pudding. BEANS, Boiled Broad or Windsor. Ingredients. — To each I gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; beans. J/ocZe.—This is a favour- ite vegetable with many persons, but, to be nice, should be young and freshly gathered. After shelling the beans, put them into boiling water, salted in the above propoi-tion, and let them boil rapidly until tender. Drain them well in a colander; dish, and serve with them separately a tureen of parsley and butter. Boiled bacon should always accompany this vegetable, but the beans should be cooked separately. It is usually served with the beans laid round, and the parsley'and butter in a tureen. Beans also make an excellent garnish to a ham, and when used for this purpose, if very old, should have their skins removed. Time. — Very young beans, 15 minutes ; when a mo- derate size, 'iO to 25 minutes, or longer. Averacje cost, unshelled, 6d. per peck. Sufficient. — Allow one peck for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable'm July and August. BEANS, Broad, h la Poulette. Ingredients.—2 pints of broad beans i pint of stock or broth, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, a small lump of sugar, the yolk of 1 egg, ^ pint of ci'cam, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Procure some young and freshlj''- gathered beans, and shell sufficient to make 2 pints j boil them, as in the BBOAD MlTHE DICTIONARY OF COOTCERY. 26 Beans, Boiled French preceding recipe, until nearly done; then drain them and put them into a stewpan •with the stock, finely-minced herbs, and sugar. Stew the beans untU per- fectly tender, and the liquor has dried away a little ; then beat up the yoUc of an egg with the cream, add this to the beans, let the whole get thoroughly hot, and when on the point of simmering, serve. Should the beans be very large, the skin should be removed previously to boiling them. Time.—10 minutes to boil the beans, 15 minutes to stew them in the stock. A verage cost, unshelled, Qd. per peck. Seasonable in July and August. BEANS, Boiled French, Ingredienls.—To each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, a very small piece of soda. Mode.—This vegetable should always be eaten young, as when allowed to grow too long it tastes stringy and tough when cooked. Cut off the heads and taUs, and a thin strip on each side of the beans to remove the strings; then divide each beau into 4 or 6 pieces, according to size, cutting them lengthways in a slanting direction, and as they are cut put them into cold water, ■with a small quantity of salt dissolved in it. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion ; put in the beans, keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, and be careful that they do not get smoked. When tender, which may be ascertained by their sinking to the bot- tom of the saucepan, take them up, pour them into a colander, and when drained, dish and serve with plain melted butter. When very young, beans are sometimes served whole: thus dressed, their colour and flavour are much better preserved, but the more general way of sending them to table is to cut them into thin strips. Time.—Very young beans, 10 to 12 minutes ; moderate size, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost, in full season. Is. id. per peck, but •wlien forced very expensive. Sufficient. —Allow J peck for (5 or 7 persons. Sea- sonable from the middle of July to the end of September, but may bo had forced fi-om February to the beginning of June. BEAN'S, French Mode of Cooking French. Ingredients.—A quart of French beans, 8 oz. of fresh butter, pei)por and salt to Beans, Haricots Blancs, &c. taste, the juice of ^ lemon. Modc.~C\d i and boil the beans by the preHug recipe, and when tender, put them ! • / o a stewpan, and shake over the fi dry away the moisture from the i When quite dry and hot, add the bu. itr, j| pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; keep ing the stewpan, without using a as that would break the beans; anu the butter is melted, and all is thoro hot, serve. If the butter should no; well, add a tablespoonful of gravy, and serve very quickly. Time.— About \ hour to boil the beans; 10 minutes U shake them over the fire. A verage cod. in full season, about Is. M. per peck! Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. SeasonaV' from the middle of July to the end o September. BEANS, to Boil Haricots Blancs or White Haricot. Ingredients.—1 quart of white haricol f beans, 2 quarts of soft water, 1 oz. c: butter, 1 heaped tablespoonful of "lalt Mode.—Put the beans into cold • let them soak from 2 to 4 hours, acco, . to their age; then put them into opli water salted in the above proportion, . bring them to boil, and let them sin.mei I very slowly imtil tender ; pour the w.itei t away from them, let them stand by thi side of the fire, with the lid of the p : pan partially off, to allow the be:, dry; then add 1 oz. of butter : seasoning of pepper and salt, the beans about lor a minute or two, i serve : do not stir them with a sp^ for fear of breaking them to pia Time.—After the water boils, from) 2.^ hours. Average cost, 4cZ. per qu Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Season in winter, when other vegetables scarce. ^^ote.—Haricots blancs, when newj fresh, should be put into boiling and do not require any soaking previotf to dressing. BEANS, Haricots Blancs & Mince* Onions. Ingredients.—1 quart of white harico beans, 4 middling-sized onions, ^ pint o good brown gravj% pepper and salt t taste, a little flour. Modc—Veel an. mince the onions not too finely, and fr; them in butter of a light brown coloitr dredge over them a little flour, and a*THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2? ieans, Haricots Blancs, &c. ravy and a seasoning of pepper and Have ready a pint of haricot beans boiled and drained ; put them with Dions and gravy, mix all well toge- and serve very hot. Time.—From ihom-s to boil the beans ; 6 minutes the onions. Average cost, id. per Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Sea- le in winter. .WS, Haricots Blancs h la Maltre Hotel. redienis.—1 quart of white haricot , ^ lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespoon- minced parsley, pepper and salt to the juice of ^ lemon. Mode. — d the beans be very dry, soak them hour or two in cold water, and boil until perfectly tender, as in the pre- recipe. If the water should boil away, replenish it with a little more cold, which makes the skin of the beans tender. Let them be very tho- rougliJy done; drain them well; then add to them the butter, minced par- sley, and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Keep moving the stewpan over the firo without using a spoon, as icoT BEANS. this would break tho beans; and, I tho various ingredients aro well with them, squeeze in the lemon- land serve very hot. Time.—From hours to boil the beans. Average , per quart. Sufficient for 4 or 5 I. Seasonable in winter. CAMEL, or French WMte redien(s.—l small bunch of parsley, |eS, A bay-leaf, 1 small bunch of 'herbs, salt to taste ; 3 or4mush- when obtainable; 2 pints of whito 1 pint of milk or cream, 1 table- ful of arrowroot. Mode.—Put the jinto a atcwpan, with the parsley, bay-leaf, herbs, and mushrooms ; seasoning of salt, but no pepper, as l-ould give tho sauce a dusty appear- I'lnd should bo avoided. When it has I long enough to extract tho flavour Beef, Aitchbone of, Boiled of the herbs, &c., strain it, and boil it up quickly again, until it is nearly half reduced. Now mix the arrowroot smoothly with the milk or cream, and let it simmer very gently for 5 minutes over a slow fire; pour to it the stock, and continue to simmer slowly for 10 minutes, if the sauce be thick. If, on the contrary, it be too thin, it must be stirred over a sharp fire till it thickens. Always make it thick, as it can easily be thinned with cream, milk, or white stock. This sauce is excellent for pouring over boiled fowls. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average cost, 3s. per quart, with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. BECHAMEL MAIGBE, or ■With- out Meat. Ingredients.—2 onions, 1 blade of mace, mushroom trimmings, a small bunch of parsley, 1 oz. of butter, flour, h pint of water, 1 pint of milk, salt, the juice of ^ lemon, 2 eggs. Mode.—Put in a stew- pan the milk and | pint of water, with the onions, mace, mushrooms, parsley, and salt. Let these simmer gently for 20 minutes. In the meantime, rub on a plate 1 oz. of flour and butter; put it to the liquor, and stir it well till it boils up : then place it by the side of the fire, and continue stirring imtil it is perfectly smooth. Now strain it through a sieve into a basin, after which put it back in the stewpan, and add the lemon-juice. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with about 4 dessertspoonfuls of milk; strain this to the sauce, keep stirring it over the firo, hut do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average cost, 5d. per pint. This is a good sauce to pour over boiled fowls when they are a bad colour, BEEF, Aitchbone of. Boiled. Ingredients. — Beef, water. Mode.— After this joint has been in salt 5 or 6 days, it will be ready for use, and will not take so long boiling as a round, for it is not so solid. Wash the meat, and, if too salt, soak it for a few hours, changing the water once or twice, till the required freshness is obtained. Put into a sauce- pan, or boiling-pot, sufficient water to cover tho meat; sot it over the fire, and when it boils, plunge in the joint, and lot it boil up quickly. Now draw the pot to the side of tho fire, and lot theTHE DICTIONAHY OF COOKERY. 23 Beef h la Mode process be very gradual, as the water must only simmer, or the meat will be hard and tough. Carefully remove the Bcum from the surface of the water, and AITCH-BONB OF BBEF. continue doing this for a few minutes after it first boils. Carrots and turnips are served with this dish, and sometimes suet dumplings, which may be boiled with the beef. Garnish with a few of the carrots and turnips, and serve the remainder in a vegetable-dish. Time.— An aitch-bone of 10 lbs., 2i hours after the water boils ; one of 20 lbs., 4 hom-s. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient.— 10 lbs. for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, but best from September to March, Note.—The liquor in which the meat has been boiled may be easily converted into a very excellent pea-soup. It will require very few vegetables, as it will bo impregnated with the flavour of those boiled with the meat. BEEP A LA MODE. Ingredients.—6 or 7 lbs. of the thick flank of beef, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 teacupful of vinegar, black pepper, allspice, 2 cloves well mixed and finely pounded, making altogether 1 heaped teaspoonful; salt to taste, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, all finely minced and well mixed; 3 onions, 2 largo carrots, 1 turnip, 1 head of celery, 1^ pint of water, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Slice and fry the onions of a palo brown, and cut up the other vegetables in small pieces, and prepare the beef for stewing in tho fol- lowing manner:—Choose a fine piece of beef, cut the bacon into long slices, about an inch in thickness, dip them into vinegar, and then into a little of tho above seasoning of spice, &c., mixed with the same quantity of minced herbs. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to lot in tho bacon; then rub the beof over with tho remainder of the Beef, Baked seasoning and herbs, and bind it ■ ' a nice shape with tape. Have r' well-tinned stew-pan (it should j much larger than the piece of mi; are cooking), into which put th' with tho vegetables, vinegar, and Let it simmer very gentii) for 5 hi- rather longer, should the meat i extremely tender, and turn it oucegia twice. When ready to serve, takeoRl the beef, remove the tape, and put it c a hot dish. Skim off every particle ' fat from the gravy, add the port wirj just let it boil, pour it over the beef, ai. it is ready to serve. Great care must i taken that this does not boil fast, or tl. meat will be tough and tasteless ; ; should only just bubble. When cor venient, all kinds of stews, &c. shoul be cooked on a hot plate, as tho procf-s is so much more gradual than on a open fire. Tivie. — 5 hours, or rathe more. Average cost, Id. per lb. Svj cient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonalle & the year, but more suitable for a wintt dish. BEEP A LA MODE (Economii Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of clod sticking of beef, 2 oz. of clarified ping, 1 large onion, flour, 2 qun''- i water, 12 berries of allspice, 2 bay- ^ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, to taste. Mode. —Cut the beef into '' pieces, and roll them in flour; put dripping into a stewpan with the onio! which should be sliced thin. Let ' quite hot; lay in the pieces of bee:, stir them well about, ^^'^len nice browned all over, add by degrees boilit water in the above proportion, and, ! the water is added, keep the whole w stirred. Put in the spice, bay-l and seasoning, cover the stewpan civ - . and set it by the side of the tire to very gently, till the meat becomes q1 tender, which will bo in about 3 hi when it will bo ready to serve. Kei the bay-leaves before it is sent to Time.—^ hours. Avemge cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 persons. Scaso7iabIt any time. BEEP, Baked. [Cold JIeat Cookert. 1.] Ingredft^ About 2 Ihs. of cold roast heef, 2 sn- onions, 1 large carrot or 2 small ' 1 turnip, a small bunch of savo" herbs, salt and pepper to taste, qiu29 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. Beef-Bones, Broiled pint of gravy, 3 tablespoonfuls of ale, ist or mashed potatoes. Mode.—Cut a beef in slices, allowing a small lount of fat to each slice; place a 'er of this in the bottom of a pie-dish, bh a portion of the onions, carrots, and nips, which must be sliced; mince ) herbs, strew tbem over the meat, d season with pepper and salt. Then fc another layer of meat, vegetables, d seasoning ; and proceed in this jiner until all the ingredients are id. Pour in the gravy and ale (water ly be substituted for the former, but is not so nice), cover with a crust or ished potatoes, and bake for \ hour, rather longer. Time.—Rather more ua ^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of > meat, 6d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 per- is. Seasonable at any time. ?fote. — It is as well to parboil the 'rrots and turnips before adding them I the meat, and to use some of the :ior in which they were boiled as a istitute for gravy ; that is to say, : en there is no gravy at hand. Be rticular to cut the onions in very thin :es. I 'OLD Meat Cookery. 2.] Ingredients. ices of cold roast beef, salt and pep- to taste, 1 pliced onion, 1 teaspoon- of minced savouiy herbs, 12 table- < 'nfuls of gravy or sauce of any kind, -11 ed potatoes. Mode. —Butter the sides I deep dish, and spread mashed pota- s over the bottom of it; on this place 1 crs of beef in thin slices (this may minced, if there is not suiBcient if to cut into slices), well seasoned ^ih pepper and salt, and a very little ' on and herbs, which ohould be pre- nsly fried of a nice brown ; then put jther layer of mashed potatoes, and f, and other ingredients, as before; • in the gravy or sauce, cover the 0 with another Itiyer of potatoes, and for ^ hour. This may be sensed in !ish, or turned out. Time.—^ hour. ttgecost, exclusive of the cold beef. Sufficient.—A large pie-dish full for •j persons. Seasonable at any time. lEF-BONES, Broiled. OLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. 0 bones of ribs or sirloin ; salt, pep- and cayenne. Separate the s, taking care that the meat on them njt too thick in any part; sprinkle Beef, Brisket of. Stewed them well with the above seasoning, and broil over a veiy clear fire. When nicely browned, they are done; but do not allow them to blacken. BEEP, Brisket of, h la Flamande. Ingredients. —About 6 or 8 lbs. of tha brisket of beef, 4 or 5 slices of bacon, 2 carrots, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 4 cloves, 4 whole allspice, 2 blades of mace. Mode.—Choose that portion of the brisket which contains the gristle, trim it, and put it into a stewpan with the slices of bacon, which should be placed under and over the meat. Add the vegetables, herbs, spices, and seasoning, and cover with a little weak stock or water; shut the stewpan-lid as closely as possible, and simmer very gently for 4 hours. Strain the liquor, reserve a por- tion of it for sauce, and the remainder boU quickly over a sharp fire until re- duced to a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Gai-nish the dish with scooped carrots and turnips, and, when liked, a little cabbage ; all of which must be cooked separately. Thicken and flavour the liquor that was saved for sauce, pour it round the meat, and serve. The beef may also be garnished with glazed onions, artichoke-bottoms, &c. Time.—4 hours. A verage cost, 7d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Brisket of. Stewed. Ingredients.—7 lbs. of the brisket of beef, vinegar and salt, 6 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 small onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 whole allspice pounded, thickening of butter and floui-, 2 table- spoonfuls of ketchup; stock, or water. Mode.—About an hour before dressing it, rub the meat over with vinegar and salt ; put it into a stewpan, with suffi- cient stock to cover it (when this is not at hand, water may be substituted for it), and be particular that the stewpan is not much larger than the meat. Skim well, and when it has simmered very gently for 1 hour, put in the vegetables, and continue simmering till the meat is perfectly tender. Draw out the bones, dish the meat, and garnish either with tufts of caulillower or braised cabbage cut in quarters. Thicken as much gravy as required, with a littlo butter and flour ; add spices and ketchup in the above pro- portion, give one boil, pour some of it(THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. so Beef, Broiled, and Mushroom Sauce over the meat, and the remainder send in a tureen. Time.—Rather more than 8 hours. Average cost, Id. per lb. Sujfi- cient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonalle at any time. JVote.—The remainder of the liquor in •which the beef was boiled may be served as a soup, or it may be sent to table with the meat in a tureen. BEEF, Broiled, and Musliroom Sauce. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —2 or 3 dozen small button mushrooms, 1 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, mashed potatoes, slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Wipe the mushrooms free from grit with apiece of flannel, and salt; put them in a stevrpan with the butter, sea- soning, and ketchup ; stir over the fire until the mushrooms are quite done, when pour it in the middle of mashed potatoes, browned. Then place round the pota- toes slices of cold roast beef, nicely broiled over a clear fire. In making the mushroom sauce the ketchup may be dis- pensed with, if there is sufficient gravy. Time.—i hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 8d. Seasonable from Augiist to October. BEEF, Broiled, and Oyster Sauce. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —2 dozen oysters, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, ^ teaspoonful of flour, cayenne and salt to taste, mashed potatoes, a few slices of cold roast beef, il/orfe.—Put the oysters in a stcwpan, with their liquor strained; add the cloves, mnce, butter, flour, and season- jpg, and let them simmer gently for 5 minutes. Have ready in the centre of a dish round walls of mashed pota- toes, browned; into the middle pour the oyster sauce quite hot, and round the potatoes place, in layers, slices of the beef, which should bo previously broiled over a nice clear fire. Time.— minutes. Average cost, \s.Gd., cxclu- sivo of the cold meat. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Scasonahk from September to April BEEF BTJBBLE.AND-SaUEAK. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —A few thin slices of cold boiled beef; Beef, Collared butter, cabbage, 1 sliced onion, pep. per and salt to taste. Mode.—Fry the slices of beef gently in a little burcr, taking care not to dry them up. Lay them on a flat dish, and cover wi^ fried greens. The greens may be pre- pared from cabbage sprouts or green savoys. They should be boiled till ten- der, well drained, minced, and placed till quite hot in a frying-pan, with butter, a sliced onion, and seasoning of pepper \ and salt. When the onion is done it u ready to serve. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the col3 beef, 3d. Seasonable at any time. t BEEF CAKE. I [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. ■ \ —The remains of cold roast beef; to pound of cold meat allow | lb. of I: or ham; seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, 1 small bunch of minced savr^n- herbs, 1 or2 eggs. Mode.—Mince th^ very finely (if underdone it vrill be be; , add to it the bacon, which must also be chopped very small, and mix well tojfe- ther. Season, stir in the herbs, and bind with an egg, or 2 should 1 not be sufficient. Make it into small square cakes, about ^ inch thick, fry them in hot dripping, drain them, and serve in a dish with good gravy poured ro- -^d Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, c sive of the cold meat, 6d. Seasonable auy time. BEEF, Collared. Ingredients.—7 lbs. of the thin eOTl of the flank of beef, 2 oz. of co.irs^ sugar, 6 oz. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpeti 1 large handflil of parsley, minced, '1 C0I.LABKD BBTiF. dossort-spoonful of minced sage, a biin^ of savoury herbs, A teaspoonful pounded allspice; salt and pepper taste. Mode.—ChoosQ fine tender b< but not too fat; lay it in a dish, rub ' iiTHE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKERY. SI Beef Oollops I 0 sugar, salt, and saltpetre, and let it I main in the pickle for a week or ten J ,ys, turning and rubbing it every day. J len bone it, remove all the gristle and E e coarse skin of the inside part, and I rinkle it thickly vrith parsley, hei-bs, : ice, and seasoning in the above pro- ii 'i-tion, taking care that the former are i iclyminced, andthe latter wellpounded, I :>l\ the meat up in a cloth as tightly r possible; bind it firmly with broad 5 pe, and boil it gently for 6 houi-s. J: amediately on taking it out of the pot it it under a good weight, without iloing it, and let it remain until cold, lis dish is a vei'y nice addition to the cakfast-table. Time.—6 hours. Avei-- cost, for this quantity, 4s. Season- le at any time. Note.—During the time the beef is in •kle it should be kept cool, and regu- iy nibbed and tiu'ued every day. 4bf COLLOPS. Iiigredients. — 2 lbs. of rump-steak, lb. of butter, 1 pint of gravy (water ly be substituted for this), salt and '>er to taste, 1 shalot, finely minced, kled walnut, 1 teaspoonful of ca- . Mode.—Have the steak cut thin, I divide it in pieces about 3 inches' \g; beat these with the blade of a ifo, and dredge with flour. Put ;na in a frying-pan with the butter, I let them fry for about 3 minutes ; ;u lay them in a small stewpan, and ir over them the gravy. Add a piece 1 utter kneaded with a little flour, put the seasoning and all the other ingre- nts, and let the whole simmer, but ; lioil, for 10 minutes. Serve in a hot r red dish. Time.—10 minutes. Aver- ost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 ns. Seasonable at any time. BEEF CAKVIlSra. ^Beef, Aitchbone of. —A boiled ohbone of beef is not a diflScult joint sarve, as will be seen on reference to accompanying engraving. Byfollow- with the knife the direction of the Beef Carving line from 1 to 2, nice slices will be easily cut. It may be necessary, as in a round of beef, to cut a thick slice oflE the outside before commencing to serve. Beef, Brisket of. — There is but little description necessary to add to show the carving of a boiled brisket of beef beyond the engraving here inserted. The only point to be observed is, that the joint should be cut evenly and firmly quite across the bones, so that on its reappearance at table it should not have a jagged and untidy look. Beef, Bibs of.—This dish resembles the sirloin, except that it has no fillet or undercut. As explained in the recipes, the end piece is often cut ofij salted and boiled. The mode of carving is similar to that of the sirloin, viz., in the direction of the dotted hne from 1 to 2. This joint will be the more easily cut if the plan be pursued which is suggested in carving the sirloin; namely, the inserting of the knife immediately between the bone and the meat, before commencing to cut it into slices. All joints of roast beef should be cut in even and thin slices. Horseradish, finely scraped, maybeser^'edas agarnish; but horseradish sauce is preferable for eating with the beef. Beef, a Bound of.—A round of beef is more easily carved than any other joint of beef, but, to manage it properly, a thin-bladod and very sharp knife isTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 32 Beef Carving necessary. Off the outside of the joint, at its top, a thick slice should first bo cut, so as to leave the surface smooth : then thin and even slices should be cleverly carved in the direction of the line 1 to 2 ; and with each slice of the lean a delicate morsel of the fat should be served. Beef, Sirloin of. — This dish is Berved differently at various tables, some preferring it to come to table with the fillet, or, as it is usually called, the undercut, uiDpermost. The reverse way, as shown in the cut, is that most usually adopted. Still the undercut is best eaten when hot; consequently, the cai'verhim- self may raise the joint, and cut some Blices from the under side, in the direction of from 1 to 2, as the fillet is very much preferred by some eaters. The upper part of the sirloin should be cut in the direction of the line from 5 to 6, and care should be taken to carve it evenly and in thin slices. It will be found a great assistance, in carving this joint well, if the knife be first inserted just above the bone at the bottom, and run sharply along between the bone and meat, and also to divide the meat from the bone in the same way at the side of the joint; the slices will then come away more readily. Some carvers cut the upper side of the sirloin across, as shown by the line from 3 to 4 ; but this is a wasteful plan, and one not to bo recommended. With the sirloin, very finely-scraped horseradish is usually served, and a little given, when liked, to each guest. Horseradish sauce is preferable, however, for ser\dng on the plate, although tho scraped horseradish may still be used as a garnish. Beef Tongue.—Passing the knife down in tho direction of from 1 to 2, a Beef, Fricandeau of not too thin slice should be helped ; and the carving of a tongue maybe continued in this way until the best portions of tht upper side are served. The fat v/hich lies about the root can be served by turn- ing the tongue, and cutting in the direc- tion of fi-om 3 to 4. BEEF, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredierdt. —A few slices of tolerably lean cold roast or boiled beef, 3 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 wineglassful of beer, a dessert-spoonful of curry powder. Mode.—Cut up the beef into pieces about 1 inch square, put the butter into a stewpan with the onions sliced, and fry them of a light-brown colour. Add all the other ingredients, and stir gently over a brisk fire for about 1( minutes. Should this be thought too dry, more beer, or a spoonful or two of gravy or water, maybe added ; but a good curry should not be very thin. Place it in a deep dish, with an edging of dry boiled rice, in the same manner as for other curries. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Sea.nn- able in winter. BEEF, Boast FiUet of (Larded), Ingredients.— About 4 lbs. of the in- side fillet of the sirloin, 1 onion, a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, sufficient vinegar to cover th' meat, glaze, Spanish sauce (see^ki Mode.—Lard the beef with bacon, put it into a pan with suflScient vii. to cover it, with an onion sliced, parsiey, and seasoning, and let it remain in this pickle for 12 hours. Roast it before a ; nice clear fire for about 1^ hour, and, when done, glaze it. Pour some Spanish sauce round the beef, and the remainder serve in a tureen. It may be garnished^ with Spanish onions boiled and glazoul Time.—1;} hour. Average cost, exclusilM of the sauce. As. Sujjicient for 6 oral persons. SecLSonahle at any time. 11 BEEP, Fricandeau of. Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of tfceinsid* < fillet of the sirloin (a piece of the rump may be substituted for this), pojiper ana salt to taste, 3 cloves, 2 bladfes of mace, l whole allspice, 1 pint of stock (see Stock), " or water, 1 glass of sherrj', 1 bunch oi i savoury hei-bs, 2 shalot,s, bacon. Mode. — Cut somff bacon into thin strips, andTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEUT. 83 Beef, Fried Salt inkle over them a seasoning of pepper 1 salt, mixed with cloves, mace, and spice, well pounded. Lard the beef with se, put it into a stewpan with the stock vater, sherry, herbs, shalots, 2 cloves, I more pepper and salt. Stew the m eat itly until tender, when take it out, er it closely, slum off all the fat from gravy, and strain it. Set it on fire, and boil, till it becomes a glaze, ze the larded side of the beef with this, , sen'e on sorrel sauce, which is ie as follows :—Wash and pick some ■el, and put it into a stewpan with T the water that hangs about it. Keep ring, to prevent its burning, and when B, lay it in a sieve to drain. Chop it, ' stew it with a small piece of butter 14 or 5 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, in hour, and rub it through a sieve. ID acid, add sugar ; a little cabbago- ice boiled with the sorrel will be .d an improvement. Time.—2 hours ently stew the meat. Average cost, this quantity, is. Svfficient for 6 ons. Seasonable at any time. EF, Fried Salt. 'i-D Meat Cookery.] Ingredients, vf slices of cold salt beef, pepper to h lb. of butter, mashed potatoes. — Cut any part of cold salt beef I' n slices, fry them gently in butter, ason with a little pepper. Have some veij hot mashed potatoes, slices of beef on them, and garnish or 4 pickled gherkins. Cold salt 'armed in a little liquor from mixed drained, and served as above, will id good. Time.—About 5 minutes. '« cost, exclusive of the meat, 4,d. T^le at any time. !" FBITTERS. D Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. rem8,ins of cold roast beef, pepper It to taste, If lb. of flour, i pint of 2 oz. of butter, the whites of i. Mode.—Mix very smoothly, y degrees, the flour with the above tion of water ; stir in 2 oz. of but- lich must be melted but not oiled, ist before it is to bo used, add the of two well-whisked eggs. Should tter bo too thick, more water must ed. Pare down the cold beef into ireds, soa,son with pepper and salt, ix it with the batter. Drop a quantity at a time into a pan of Beef, Hashed boiling lai-d, and fry from 7 to 10 mi- nutes, according to the size. When done on one side, turn and brown them on the other. Let them dry for a minute or two before the fire, and serve on a folded napkin. A small quantity of finely-miu'ied onions, n-ixod with the batter, is an improvement. Time. — From 7 to 10 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. ScasonaLl at any time. BEEF, Haslied. [Cold Meat Cookery. 1.] Ingredients. —Gravy saved from the meat, 1 teaspoon* ful of tomato sauce, one teaspoonf ul ' Harvey's sauce, one teaspoonl'ul of goot' mushroom ketchup, h glass of port wine or strong ale, pepper and salt to taste, a little flour to thicken, 1 onion finely minced, a few slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Put all the ingredients but the beef into a stewpan with whatever gravy may have been savedfrom the meat the day it was roasted; simmer these gently for 10 minutes, then take the stewpan off the fire ; let the gravy cool and skim off the fat. Cut the beef into thin slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the gravy; let the whole simmer gently for 5 minutes, but not boil, or the meat will be tough and hard. Serve very hot, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time. — 20 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 4id. Seasonable at any time. [ColdMeat Cookery. 2.] Ingredients. —The remains of ribs or sirloin of beef, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 1 bunch of sav(;ury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, h blade of pounded mace, thickening of" flour, rather more than 1 pint cf water. J/oc?e.—Take off all the meat from the bones of ribs or sirloin of beef; remova. the outside brown and gristle; place the meat on one side, and well stew the bones and pieces, with the above ingredients, for about 2 hours, till it becomes a strong gravy, and is reduced to rather more than h pint; strain this, thicken with a toaspoonful of flour, and let the gravy cool; skim off all the fat; lay in the meat, let it got hot through, but do not allow it to boil; and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The gi-avy should be flavoured as in the preceding recipe. Time. — llalhor more th;m ll hours. Average cost, exclusive of tho cold moat, Gd. SeasonabU at any time. 284 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKEHY. Beef, Hunter's Note.—Either of the above recipes may be served in walls of mashed potatoes browned; in which case the sippets should be omitted. Be careful thai hashed meat does not boil, or it wiU become totigh. BEEF, Hunter's. Ingredients. — For a round of beef weighing 25 lbs. allow 3 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 grat ed nutmeg, | oz. of allspice, 1 lb. of salt, I lb. bay-salt. Mode.—Hang the beef for 2 or 3 days, and remove the bone. Pound spices, salt, &c. in the above proportion, and let them be reduced to the iinest powder. Put the beef into a pan, rub all the ingredients well into it, and turn and rub it every day for rather more than a fortnight. When it has been sufficiently long in pickle, wash the meat, bind it up se- curely with tape, and put it into a pan with 2 pint of water at the bottom; mince some suet, cover the top of the meat with it, and over the pan put a common crust of flour and water ; bake for 6 hours, and when cold remove the paste. Save the gravy that flows from it, as it adds greatly to the flavour of hashes, stews, &c. The beef may be glazed and garnished with meat jelly. Time. — 6 hours. Seasonable all the year. Note.—In salting or pickling beef or pork for family consumption, it not being generally required to be kept for a great length of time, a less quantity of salt and a larger quantity of other matters more adapted to retain mellowness in meat, may be employed, which could not be adopted by the curer of the immense quantities of meat required to be pre- served for victualling the shipping of this maritime country. Sugar, which is well known to possess the preserving principle in a vory great degree, without the pungency and astringency of salt, may be, and is, vory generally used in the prcservingofmcat for family consumption. Although it acts without corrugating or .outracting the fibres of moat, as is the case in the action of salt, and, therefore, does not impair its mellowness, yet its ose in sufficient quantities for preservative (tflfcct, without the addition of other antiseptics, would impart a flavour not ngroeablo to the taste of many persons. \t may bo used, however, toijetlier with Bait, with tho greatest advant:\go in Imparting mildness and mellowness to Beef Kidney, to Dress cured meat, in a proportion of about one part by weight to four of the mixture; and, perhaps, now that sugar is so much lower in price than it was in foiinor years, one of the obstructions to its more - frequent use is removed. BEEF KIDNEY, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 kidney, clarified but- ter, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of highly-seasoned gravy, 1 ta. blespoonful of lemon-juice, i teaspoonful , of powdered sugar. Mode.—Cut the kidneys into neat slices, put them into warm water to soak for two hours, and 1 change the water 2 or 3 times ; then lay | them on a clean cloth to dry the water -) from them, place them in a frying- pan with some clarified butter, and fr them of a nice brown ; season each sida with pepper and salt, put them ronnd the dish, with the gravy in the mi Before pouring the gravy in the , add the lemon-juice and sugar. Tiiu<.-~ From 5 to 10 minutes. A verage cost, 9d. each. /Seasonable at any time. 1 BEEF KIDWEY, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 kidney, 1 dessert?; fill of minced parsley, 1 teaspoon: . : minced shalot, salt and pepper to ta^, ^ pint of gravy (follow one of the graff . recipes), 3 tablespoonfuls of sher™b4--' Mode.—Take off a little of the kid^^ fat, mince it very fine, and put it i^^V^ frying-pan; slice the kidney, sprin^Hj over it parsley and shalots in the ^^^B^ proportion, add a seasoning of pep^H^ and salt, and fry it of a nice ^>'''VK] When it is done enoug-h, dredge overTw little flour, and pour in the grary and sherry. Let it just simmer, but v '"' boil any more, or tho kidney v. harden; serve very hot, and gn with crofttons. ■UTiero the flavoiu-1 shalot is disliked it may be omitted, a small quantity of savom-y herbs su^^Vl tuted for it. Time.—From 5 to lO^Wa nutes, according to tho thickness slices. Average cost, Sd. ouch. Stiffii^^^ for 3 persons. Seasonable at any timHB"* BEEF KIDNEY, to Dress (a mO»f'«t simple method). Cut tho kidneys into thin slices, don . them, and fry of a nice brown. done, mako a grtivy in tho pan by l'^>" ing away tho fat, putting in a small pieoTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 3S Beef Marrowbones, Boiled MABEOW-BONES. Abutter, ^ pint of boiling water, pepper M salt, a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, tda tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, bt the gravy just boil up, pour over the [(iney, and serve. IEEF MARKOWBOTiTES, BoUed. lilngredienis.—Bones, a small piece of Immon paste, a floured cloth. Mode.— j,ve the bones neatly sawed into con- Inient sizes, and cover the ends with a small piece of common crust, made with floiu" and water. Over this tie a floured cloth, and place them Irlght in a saucepan of boiling water, " ig care there is sufficient to cover 1 bones. Boil the bones for 2 hours, lOve the cloth and paste, and serve , upright on a napkin with dry toast, 'iny persons clear the marrow from the les after they are cooked, spread it er a slice of toast, and add a seasoning Ipepper ; when served in this manner, Imust be very expeditiously sent to ole, as it so soon gets cold. Time.— liours. Seasonable at any time. I ^o<e.—Marrow-bones may be baked .er preparing them as in the preceding po; they should be laid in a deep and baked for 2 hours. 3EF, Minced. Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. [ oz. of butter, 1 small onion, 12 table- )onfuls of gravy left from the meat, tablespoonful of strong ale, 1 tea- bonful of flour, salt and pepper to te, a few slices of lean roast beef. ode.—Put into a stewpan the butter :h an onion chopped fine; add the ivy, ale, and a teaspoonful of flour to (cken ; season with pepper and salt, d stir these ingredients over the fire jtilthe onion is a rich brown. Cut (but 'not chop) thoraea,t very fine, add it to b gravy, stir till quite hot, and serve. Imish with sippets of toasted bread. J careful in not allowing the gravy to after the moat is added, as it would i^der it hard and tough. Time.—About ^Bour. Average cost, exclusive of the iKit, id. Seasonable at any time. Beef Olives BEEP, Mii3.ced Collops of (an Entree). Ingredients.—1 lb. of rump-steak, salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 1 onion minced, | pint of water, 1 table- spoonful of Harvey's sauce, or lemon- juice, or mushroom ketchup; 1 small bunch of savoury herbs. Mode.—Mince the beef and onion very small, and fry the latter in butter until of a pale brown. Put aU the ingredients together in a stewpan, and boil gently for about 10 minutes; garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve very hot. Time. — 10 minutes. Average cost. Is. per lb. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Miroton of. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients. —A few shoes of cold roast beet, 3 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 3 onions, I pint of gravy. il/ocZe.—Slice the onions and put them into the frying-pan with, the cold beef and butter; place it over the fire, and keep turning and stirring the ingredients to prevent them burning. When a pale brown, add the gravy and seasoning; letit simmer for a few minutes, and serve very hot. The dish is excellent and economical. Time. — 5 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. BEEF OLIVES. Ingredients. — 2 lbs. of rump-steak, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of stock, 2 or 3 slices of bacon, 2 table- spoonfuls of any kind of store sauce, a slight thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thin, beat them to make them level, cut them into 6 or 7 pieces, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with herbs, which should be very finely minced ; season with pepper and salt, roll up the pieces tightly, and fasten with a small skewer. Put the stock in a stewpan that will exactly hold the in- gredients, for, by being pressed together, they will keep their shape bettor; lay in the roUs of meat, cover them with the bacon, cut in thin sUces, and over that put a piece of paper. Stow them very gently for full 2 hours; for the slower they are done the better. Take tbcm out, remove the skewers, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and flavourTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 36 Beef Olives with any store sauce that may bo pre- ferred. Give one boil, pom- over the meat, and soi-vo. Time.—2 hours. Aver- age cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time, BEEF OLIVES (Economical). [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The i-emains of underdone cold roast beef, bread crumbs, 1 shalot finely minced, pepper and salt to taste, gravy made from the beef bones, thicken- ing of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut Bome slices of underdone roast beef about half an inch thick; sprinkle over them some bread crumbs, minced shalot, and a little of the fab and seasoning; roll them, and fasten with a small skewer. Have ready some gravy made from the beef bones ; put in the pieces of meat, and stew them tiU tender, which will be in about I5 hour, or rather longer. Ar- range the meat in a dish, thicken and flavour the gravy, and pour it over the meat, when it is ready to serve. Time.— labour. Average cost, exclusive of the beef, '2d. Seasonable at any time. BEEF PALATES, to Dress (an Entree). Ingredients. — 4 palates, sufficient gravy to cover them, cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of pickled-onion liquor, thickening of butter and flour. Mode. — Wash tho palates, and put them into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil until per- fectly tender, or until the upper skin may be easily peeled off. Have ready sufficient gravy to cover them ; add a good seasoning of cayenne, and thicken with a little butter kneaded with flour ; let it boil up, and skim. Cut the palates into square pieces, put them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently for I hour; add ketchup and onion- •jquor, give one boil, and servo. Time.— From 3 to 5 hours to boil tho palates. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seaaonalle at »ny time. _^ote.—Palates may bo dressed in va- rious ways with good onion sauce, tomato sauce, &c., &c., and may also bo served in a vol-azt-venl; but tho above will be found a moro simple method of dressing them. Beef, Potted BEEF PICKLE, (This may also bo used for any kind of Meat, Tongues, or Hams.) Ingredients.— C lbs. of salt, 2 lbs. of fine sugar, 3 oz. of powdered saltpetre, 3 gallons of spring water. Mode.—Boil all the ingredients gently together, so long as any scum or impurity arises, which carefully remove ; when quite cold, pour it over the meat, every part of which must be covered with the brine. This may be used for pickling any kind of meat, and may be kept for some time, if boiled up occasionally with an addiiion of the ingredients. Time.—A ham should be kejot in pickle for a fortnight; a piece of beef weighing 141bs., 12 or 15 days ; a tongue, 10 days or a fortnight. Note.—For salting and pickling meat, it is a good plan to rub in only half the quantity of salt directed, and to let it remain for a day or two to disgorge and effectually to get rid of the blood and slime ; then rub in the remainder of tho salt and other ingredients, and proceed Wi above. This mle may bo applie l to all recipes for salting and pickling n. ' BEEP, Potted. [Cold Meat Cookery. 1.] Ingred^' —'2 lbs. of lean beef, 1 tablespoonfui 0; water, ^ lb. of butter, a seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and black i^epper. Mode.—Procure a » nice piece of lean beef, as free as possible from giistle, skin, &c., and put it into a jar (if athand,ono with a lid) with 1 tablespoon- ful of water. JAB POn rOTTED MEATS. Cover it closely, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water, letting tliO water come within 2 inches of tho top of tho jar. Boil gently for 3.J hours, thon take the beef, chop it very small with a choppiug-knife, and pound it thoroughly in a mortar. Mix with it by degrees al^ . or a portion, of the gravy that will have run from it, and a little clarified butter; add the seasoning, put it in small pots for use, and cover with a little buttor just warmed and poured over. If nuioh gravy is added to it, it will keep but a short time; on tho contrary, if a large37 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. Beef, Potted Proportion of butter is used, it may be IreseiTcd for some time. Time.—3| lOurs. Average cost, for this quantity, s. lOrf. Seasonable at any time. [Cold Meat Cookery. 2.] Ingredients. -The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, lb. of butter, cayenne to taste, 2 blades f pounded mace. Mode.—The outside ices of boiled beef may, with a little rouble, be converted into a very nice ddition to the breakfast-tablo. Cut up le meat into small pieces and pound it ell, with a little butter, in a mortar; id a seasoning of cayenne and mace, id be very particular that the latter jioe is reduced to the finest pow- er. When all the ingredients are loroughly mixed, put them into glass or irthen potting-pots, and pour on the •p a coating of clarified butter. Season- '>le at any time. Ifote.—If cold roast beef is used, re- ove all pieces of gristle and dry outside eces, as these do not pound well. IEF BAGOTJT. OLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— at 2 lbs. of cold roast beef, 6 onions, ler, salt, and mixed spices to taste ; it of boiling water, 3 tablespoonfuls ^vy. Mode.—Cut the beef into 3r largo pieces, and put them into wpan with the onions, which must iced. Season well with pepper, salt, mixed spices, and pour over about ^ of boiling water, and gravy in the e proportion (gravy saved from the ; answers the purpose); let the whole very gently for about 2 hours, and > with pickled walnuts, gherkins, or rs, just warmed in the gravy. Time. urs. Average cost, exclusive of the id. Seasonable at any time. EF.Hib-boncs of (a pretty Dish). OLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. bs of beef bones, 1 onion chopped a few slices of carrot and turnip, pint of gravy. Mode.— The bones this dish should have left on them light covering of meat; saw them o pieces 3 inches long; season them h pepper and salt, and put them into stewpan with tho remaining ingro- nts. Stew gently, until the vegetables tender, and servo on a flat dish within Is of raa.shod potatoes. Time.—I hour, Beef, Boast Ribs of. Average cost, exclusive of the bones, 2d. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Boast Bibs of. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode. —The fore-rib is considered the primest roasting piece, but the middle-rib is con- sidered the most economical. Let tho meat be well hung (should the weather permit), having previously cut off the ends of tho bones, which should be salted for a few days, and then boiled. Put the meat down to a nice clear fire, with some clean dripping in tho pan, dredge the joint with a little flour, and keep continually basting it all the time it is cooking. Sprinkle some fine salt over it (this must never be done until the joint is dished, as it draws the juices from the meat); pour tho drip- ping from the pan, put in a little boiling water, and strain the gravy over the meat. Garnish with tufts of scraped horseradish, and send horseradish sauco to table with it. A Yorkshire pudding {see Puddings) sometimes accompanies this dish, and, if lightly made and well cooked, will be found a very agi-eeablo addition. Time.—10 lbs. of beef, 2^ hours ; 14 to 16 lbs., from 3| to 4 hours. Average cost, Qd. per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. sufiicient for 8 or 9 per- sons. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Boast Bibs of. Boned and Boiled (a very convenient Joint for a small Family). Ingredients. — 1 or 2 ribs of beef. Mode.—Choose a fine rib of beef, and have it cut according to the weight you require, either wide or narrow. Bone and roll tho meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and, if neces- sary, bind it round with a piece of tape. Spit the beef firmly, or, if a bottle- jack is used, put the joint on the hook, and place it near a nice clear firo. Let it remain so till tho outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done, which can be ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the firo. As this joint is solid, rather more than \ hour must bo allowed for each lb. liemovo tho skowers, put in a plated or silver one, and send tho joint to table with gravy in tho dish, and garnish with tufts of horseradish. Horseradish sauco is a groat improvement to roast beef.S8 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Beef Bissoles Time.—For lOlbs. of the rolled ribs, 3 hours (as the joint is very solid, we havo allowed an extra h hour); for 6 lbs., 1.^ hour. Average cost, 9d. per lb. Szif- ficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. JVote.—When the weight exceeds 10 lbs., we would not advise the above method of bosing or rolling ; only in the case of 1 or 2 ribs, when the joint cannot stand upright in the dish, and would look awkwardly. The bones should be put on with a few vegetables and herbs, and made into stock. BEEP RISSOLES. [Cold Meat Cookery.] IngredienU. —The remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of meat allow \ lb. of bread irumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a few chopped savoury herbs, | a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 or 2 eggs, ac- cording to the quantity of meat. Mode. —Mince the beef veiy fine, which should be rather lean, and mix with this bread crumbs, herbs, seasoning, and lemon- peel, in the above proportion, to each pound of meat. Make all into a thick paste with 1 or 2 eggs ; divide into balls or cones, and fiy a rich brown. Garnish the dish with fried parsley, and send to table some good brown gravy in a tureen. Instead of garnishing with fried parsley, gravy may be poured in the dish round the rissoles ; in this case, it will not be necessary to send any in a tm-een. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according to size. Average cost, exclu- sive of the meat, 5d. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Holled, to eat like Hare. Ingredients.—About 5 lbs. of the in- side of the sirloin, 2 glasses of port wine, 2 glasses of vinegar, a small quan- tity of forcemeat, 1 teaspoonful of pounded allspice. Mode.—Take the in- side of a largo sirloin, soak it in 1 glass of port wine and 1 glass of vinegar, mixed, and let it remain for 2 days. Make a forcemeat {see Forcemeat), lay it on the meat, and bind it up securely. Roast it before a nice clear lire, and baste it with 1 glass each of port wine and vinegar, with which mix a teaspoon- ful of pounded allspice. Servo, with a good gi'avy in the dish, and send red- currant jelly to table with it. Time.— A piece of 6 lbs, about l.J hour before a Beef, Boiled Bound of brisk fire. A verage cost, for this quantity, 5s. id. Sufficient for 4 persons. Season/- able at any time. BEEP ROLLS. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredientt. —The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and minced herbs ; pufF paste. Mode.— Mince the beef tolerably fine with a small amount of its own fat; add a sea- soning of pepper, salt, and chopped herbs; put the whole into a roll of puff paste, and bake for ^ hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large. Beef patties may be made of cold meat, by mincing and seasoning beef as di- rected above, and baking in a rich puff paste in patty-tins. Time.—^ hour. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Boiled Round of. Ingredients.—Beef, water. Mode.—As a whole round of beef, generally speaking, ' is too large for small families, and very seldom required, we here give the recipe for dressing a portion of the silver side of the round. Take from 12 to 16 lbs., after it has been in salt about 10 days; just wash off the salt, skewer it up in a nice round-looking fom, and bind it with tape to keep the skewers in their places. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, set it upon a good fire, and when it begins to boil, carefully remove all scum from the surface, as, if this is not at- tended to, it sinks on to the meat, and, when brought to table, presents a very unsightly appearance. After it is well skimmed, draw the pot to the corner of the fire, allow the liquor to cool, then let the beef simmer very gently until done. Remove the tape and skewers, which should be replaced by a silver one; pour over a little of the pot- liquor, and garnish with carrots. Car- rots, turnips, i^arsnips, and sometimes suet dumplings, accompany this dish; and these may all be boiled with the beef. The pot-liquor should be saved, and converted into pea-soup ; and the outside slices, which are goierally l"^']^^ and of an uninviting appearance, maj' b(f» cut off before being sent to table, and ! potted. These make an excellent relish •' for the breakfast or luncheon table. - Time.—Vixvi of a round of beef weighing : 12 lbs., about 3 hours after the water boils. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficteiii -89 THE DICTIONARY Off COOKERY. Beef, Miniature Round of or 10 persons. Seasonatle all the year, »ut more suitable for winter. tSoyer's Recipe for Preserving the ravy in Salt Meat, wlien it is to be erved Cold.—Fill two tubs with cold 'ater, into which throw a few pounds of 3ugh ice ; and when the meat is done, ut it iiito one of the tubs of ice-water; st it remain 1 minute, when take out, ad put it into the other tub. Fill the fi rst lb again with water, and continue this recess for about 20 minutes ; then set upon a dish, and let it remain until lite cold. When cut, the fat will be I white as possible, besides having ,ved the whole of the gravy. If there no ice, spring water will answer the ine purpose, but will require to be ore fi-equently changed. Ifoie.—The brisket and rump may be >iled by the above recipe; of course lowing more or less time, according to e size of the joint. EEF, Miniature Round of (an ex- cellent Dish for a small Family). Ingredients.—From 5 to 10 lbs. of ribs beef, sufiBcient brine to cover the meat. ode.—Choose a fine rib, have the bone noved, rub some salt over the inside, d skewer the meat up into a nice round s -ra, and bind it with tape. Put it into Ticient brine to cover it (see Beef iCLE), and let it remain for 6 days, turn- t.he moat every day. When required to dressed, drain from the pickle, and the meat into very hot water ; boil it lidly for a few minutes, then draw pot to tho side of the fire, and simmer ueef very gently until done. Eemove skewer, and replace it by a plated ^ 1 ver one. Carrots and turnips should i served with this dish, and may be I fled with tho meat. 'lime.—A small !id of 8 lbs., about 2 hours after the •rboils; one of 12lbs.,about3hours. ■uffe cost, M. per lb. Sufficient for rsons. Seasonalle at any time. "<e.—Should tho joint bo very small, 5 days will be sufficient time to it. 1 EF, to Pickle part of a Round, Lor Hanging. ' r/reditnU.—FoY 14 lbs. of a round of allow 1^ lb. of salt, h ok. of powdered -etro J or, 1 lb. of salt, ^ lb. of sugar, Beef, Roast Sirloin of h oz. of powdered saltpetre. Mode.— Eub in, and sprinkle either of the above mixtures on 14 lbs. of meat. Keep it in an earthenware pan, or a deep wooden tray, and turn twice a week during 3 weeks; then bind up the beef tightly with coarse linen tape, and hang it in a kitchen in which a fire is constantly kept, for 3 weeks. Pork, hams, and bacon may be cured in a similar way, but will require double the quantity of the salting mixture ; and, if not smoke- dried, they should be taken down from hanging after 3 or 4 weeks, and after- wards kept in boxes or tubs, amongst dry oat-husks. Time.—2 or 3 weeks to remain in the brine ; to be hung 3 weeks. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The meat may be boiled fresh from this pickle, instead of smoking it. BEEP SAUSAGES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of suet allow 2 lbs. of lean beef ; seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mode. —Clear the suet from skin, and chop that and the beef as finely as possible; season with pepper, salt, and spices, and mix the whole well together. Make it into flat cakes, and fry of a nice brown. Many persons pound the meat in a mor- tar after it is chopped, but this is not necessary when the meat is minced finely. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost) for this quantity. Is. 6d. Season- able at any time. BEEP, Roast Sirloin of. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode. —As a joint cannot be well roasted with- out a good fire, see that it is well made up about ^ hour before it is required, so BOAST 8IEL0IN OF BEBPo that when the joint is put down, it In clear and bright. Chooso a nice sirloin, tho weight of which should not exceea 16 lbs., as the outside would be too much done, whilst tho inside would iwt be done enough. Suit it or hook it on to the MiTUB DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 40 Beef, Sliced and Broiled jack firmly, drodgo it slightly with flour, and place it near the fire at first. Then draw it to a distance, and keep continu- ally basting until the meat is done. Dish the meat, sprinkle a small quantity of salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water, stir it about, and strain over the meat. Garnish'with tufts of horseradish, and send horseradish sauce and York- shire pudding to table with it. Time.—A sirloin of 10 lbs., 2^ hours; li to 16 lbs., about 4 or 4h hours. Average cost, 8hd, per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. lor 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable at any time. The rump, round, and other pieces of beef are roasted in the same manner, allowing for solid joints ^ hour to every lb. Note.—The above is the usual method of roasting meat; but to have it in per- fection and the juices kept in, the meat should at first be laid close to the fire, and when the outside is set and firm, drawn away to a good distance, and then left to roast very slowly. Where economy is studied, this plan would not answer, as the meat requires to be at the fire double the time of the ordinary way of cooking ; consequently, double the quan- tity of fuel would be consumed. BEEF, Sliced and Broiled (a pretty- Dish). [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients- —A few slices of cold roast beef, 4 or 5 potatoes, a thin batter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Pare the potatoes as you would peel an apple; fry the parings in a thin batter seasoned with salt and pepper, until they are of a light brown colour, and place them on a dish over some slices of beef, which should be nicely seasoned and broiled. Time.— 6 minutes to broil the meat. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Spiced (to serve Cold). Ingredients.—14 lbs. of the thick flank or rump of beef, h lb. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of saltpetre, ^ lb. of pounded allspice, 1 lb. of common salt. Mode.—Rub tho sugar well into the nccf, and let it lie foi 12 hours ; then rub tho saltpetre and allspice, both of which sliould be pounded, over the meat, and let it remain for another 12 hours ; then rub in the s:\lt. Turn daily in tho liquor for a fortni^irht, eoak it for a few hours in water, dry with a cloth, cover with a coarso paste, Beef, Stewed Hump of put a little water at the bottom of the pan, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. If it is not covered with a paste, be careful to put tho beef into a deep vessel, and cover with a plate, or it will be too crisp. During the time the meat is in tho oven it should be turned once or twice. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, Id. per lb. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Stewed. (A Polish Dish.) Ingredients.— A thick beef or rump- steak of about 2 lbs., an onion, some bread crumbs, pepper and salt, ^ lb. of butter. Mode.—Mince the onion fine, mix it with the bread, pepper, and salt; make deep incisions in the beef, but do not cut it through; fill the spaces with the bread, &c. Roll up the steak and put it in a stewpan with the butter; let it stew very gently for more than two hours: serve it with its own gravy, thickened with a little liour, and flavoured, as may be required, either with tomato sauce, ketchup, or Harvey's sauce. Time.— About 2 hours, or rather more. Averagt cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Stewed Hump of. Ingredients.—^, rump of beef, sufficient stock to cover it, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 onions, 12 cloves, pepper and salt to taste, thicken- ing of butter and flour, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Cut out the bone, sprin- kle the meat vnth. a little ca}'enne (this must be sparingly used), and bind an^ tie it firmly up with tape ; put it intoMI stewpan with sufiicient stock to cover it* add vinegar, ketchup, herl).=, ouionMs cloves, and seasonings in the above pro- - portions, and simmer very gently for 4 ' or 5 hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender, which may bo ascertained by piei'cing it with a thin skewer. When cone, remove the tape, lay it into a deep dish, which keep hot; strain and skim the gravy, thicken it with l utter aii'l flour, add a glass of port wino ami any flavouring to make tho gravy vicli and palatable ; let it boil up, pour the moat, and servo. This dish may' very much enriched by gamisliiu;,' wilh forcemeat balls, or filling up tho siwco whence tho bone is t ikcu with a gooa forcemeat; sliced carrots, turuii^s, andTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 41 Beef, Ste-wed Shin of )mons boiled with the meat are also a jreat improvement, and, where expense ,s not objected to, it may be glazed. This, owever, is not necessary where a good yravy is poured round and over the meat. Time.—^ rump stewed gently from 4 to i hours. Average cost, 10c?. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Season- \£le at any time. Note.—A stock or gravy in which to rail the meat may be made of the bone .nd trimmings, by boiling them with irater, and adding carrots, onions, tur- lips, and a bunch of sweet herbs. To nake this dish richer and more savoury, alf-roast the rump, and afterwards stew fc in strong stock and a little Madeira. T This is an expensive method, and is not, iter all, much better than a plainer- 3 Iressed joint, DEEF, Stewed Shin of. Ingredients.—A shin of beef, 1 head of elery, 1 onion, a faggot of savoury herbs, ;• teaspoonful of allspice, h teaspoonful of •j vholo black pepper, 4 carrots, 12 button i )nions, 2 turnips, thickening of butter f .nd flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of mushroom 1 :etchup, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine ; 9 )epper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have t he bone sawn into 4 or 5 pieces, cover lij ?ith hot water, bring it to a boil, and " emovo any scum that may rise to the iirface. Put in the celery, onion, herbs, pice, and seasoning, and simmer very :ently until the meat is tender. Peel (he vegetables, cut them into any shape l ancy may dictate, and boil them with the onions until tender; lift out the 'lieef, put it on a dish, which keep hot, Ij nd thicken with butter and flour as )i luch of the liquor as will be wanted for iravy; keep stirring till it boils, then i train and skim. Put the gravy back in I hestewpan, add the seasoning, port wine, I nd ketchup, give one boil, and pour it Aver the beef; garnish with the boiled Barrots, turnips and onions. Time.— fhe meat to bo stewed about 4 hours. [verage cost, 5d. per lb. with bone. ikifficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable t any time. BEEF-TEA. Ingredients.—1 lb, of loan gi-avy-beef, i pmt of water, 1 saltspoonf ul of salt. iO(/e.—Havo the moat cut without fat nd bone, and chooso a nice fleshy piece, jlut it into sm^U pieces about the size of Beef-Tea, Baked dice, and put it into a clean saucepan. Add the water cold to it; put it on tho fire, and bring it to the boiling-point; then skim well. Put in the salt when the water boils, and simmer the beef-tea gently from ^ to ^ hour, removing any more scum should it appear on the sur- face. Strain the tea through a hair sieve, and set it by in a cool place. Whea wanted for use, remove every particle of fat from the top ; warm up as much as may be required, adding, if necessary, a little more salt. This preparation is sim- ple beef-tea, and is to be administered to those invalids to whom flavourings and seasonings are not allowed. When tho pationtisvery weak, use double the quan- tity of meat to the same proportion of water. Should the invalid be able to take the tea prepared in a more palatable manner, it is easy to make it so by fol- lowing the directions in Soyer's recipe, which is an admirable cae for making savoury beef-tea. Beef-tea is always better when made the day before it is wanted, and then warmed up. It is a good plan to put the tea, into a small cup or basin, and to place this basin in a saucepan of boiUng water. When the tea is hot, it is ready to serve. Time. —to \ hour. Average cost, 6cZ. per pint. Sufficient.—Allow lib. of meat foi a pint of good beef-tea. BEEP-TEA, Baked. Ingredients.—1 lb, of fleshy beef, 1 pint of water, ^ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Cut the beef into small square pieces, after trimming ofi" all the fat, and put it into a baking-jar (these jars are sold expressly for the purpose of making soups, gravies, &c., in the oven, and are arranged with tightly-fitting lids), with the above proportion of water and salt; close the jar well, place it in a warm but not hot oven, and bake for 3 or 4 hours. When the oven is very fierce in the day- time, it is a good plan to put tho jar in at night, and lot it remain till next morn- ing, when the tea will bo done. It should be strained,andputbyinacoolijlace until wanted. It may also bo flavoured with an onion, a clove, and a few sweet herbs, &c., when the stomach is suflSciently strong to take these. Time.—3 or 4 hours, or to bo left in the oven all night. Average cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient.— Allow 1 lb. of meat for 1 pint of good beof-tea.TEE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 42 Beef-Tea, Savoury BEEF-TEA, Savoiiry (Soyer's Recipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of solid beef, 1 oz. of butter, 1 clove, 2 button onions or ^ a large one, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 quart of water. Mode.—Cut the beef into very email dice; put it into a stewpan with the butter, clove, onion, and salt; stir the meat round over the fire for a few minutes until it produces a thin gravy, then add the water, and let it simmer gently from ^ to ^ of an hour, skimming off every particle of fat. When done, strain it through a sieve, and put it by in a cool place until required. The same, if wanted quite plain, is done by merely omitting the vegetables, salt, and clove ; the butter cannot be objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming. Time.—^ to f hour. Average cost, 8d. per pint. Suf- ficient.—Allow 1 lb. of beef to make 1 pint of good beef-tea. Note.—The meat left firom beef-tea may beboiledaUttle longer, and pounded with spices, &c., for potting. It makes a very nice breakfast dish. BEETROOT, Boiled. Ingredients,—Beetroot; boiling water. Mode.—When large, young, and juicy, this vegetable makes a very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily be converted into an economical and quickly-made pickle. {See Beetboot, Pickled.) Beetroot is more frequently served cold than hot: when the latter mode is preferred, melted butter should be sent to table with it. It may also be stewed with button onions, or boiled and served with roasted onions. Wash the beets thoroughly ; but do not prick or break the skin before they are cooked, as they would lose their beautiful colour in boil- ing. Put them into boiling water, and let them boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be served hot, remove tho peel quickly, cut the beetroot into thick slices, and send to table molted butter. For salads, pickle, &c., lot the root cool, then peel, and cut it into slices. Tmc—Small beetroot, 1^ to 2 hours ; larffe to 3 hours. Average cost, in full season, 2d. each. Seaso7iable.—isla.j be had at any time. BEETROOT, Pickled. 7w(7)-eciien<3.—Sufficient vinegar to cover the beets, 2 oz, of whole pepper, 2 oz. of Biscuits, Dessert allspice to each gallon of vinegar. Mode. —Wash the beets free from dirt, and bo very careful not to prick the outside skin, or they would lose their beautiful colour. Put them into boiling water, let them simmer gently, and when about three parts done, which will be in 1.^ hour, take them out and let them cool. Boil the vinegar with pepper and allspice, in the above proportion, for 10 minutes, and when cold, pour it on the beets, which must be peeled and cut into slices about k inch thick. Cover with bladder to exclude the air, and in a week they will be fit for use. BISCUITS, Crisp. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, tho yolk of 1 egg, milk. 3Iode.—Mix the flour and the yolk of the egg with sufficient milk to make the whole into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead it until it is per- fectly smooth. Roll tho paste out ver)f thin ; with a round cutter shape it into small biscuits, and bake them a nice brown in a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes. Time.—12 to 18 minutes. Average cost, id. Seasonable at any tima BISCHTTS, Dessert, which may be flavoured with Ground Ginger, Cinnamon, &c. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, h lb. of but- ter, Alb. of sifted sugar, theyol]^sof6 eggs, flavo'uring to taste. Mode.—Put the butter into a basin ; warm it, but do not allow it to oil; then with tho hand beat it to a cream. Add the flour by degrees, then the sugar and flavouring, and moisten tho whole with the yolks of the eggs, which should previously be well beaten. When all the ingredients .-ire thoroughly incorporated, drop the mix- tui'o from a spoon on to a buttered paper, leaving a distance between each cake, for they spread as soon as they begin to get warm. Bake in rather a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes, and do not let the biscuits acquire too much colour. In making the above quantity, half may be flavoured with ground ginger and the other half with essence of lemon or cur- rants, to m.ako a variety. With whatever tho preparation is flavoured, so are the biscuits called, and an endless variety may bo made in this manner. T.mc.^ 12 to 18 minutes, or rather longer, ui a very slow oven. Average cost, 1». oi**^SE t)ICTIONARt OF COOKERY. 43 Biscuits, Simple Hard Sufficient to make from 3 to 4 dozen oakes. Seasonable at any time, BISCUITS, Simple Hard. Ingredients.—To eveiy lb. of flour lUow 2 oz. of butter, about \ pint of ikimmed milk. Mode.—Warm the but- ter in milk until tho former is dissolved, md then mix it with the flour into a very itiff paste; beat it with a rolling-pin mtil the dough looks perfectly smooth. JoU it out thin ; cut it with the top of a lass into round biscuits; prick them rell, and bake them from 6 to 10 minutes, ^e above is the proportion of milk yhich we think would convert the flour nto a stiff paste ; but should it be found 00 much, an extra spoonful or two of lour must be put in. These biscuits ai-e rery nice for the cheese course. Time.— 1 to 10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. JLACK-COCK, to Roast. Ingredients.—Black-cock, butter, toast. \fode.—Let these birds hang for a few I ys, or they will be tough and tasteless, ot well kept. Pluck and draw them, ■ I wipe the insides and outsides with a \mp cloth, as washing spoils the fla- ir. Cut off the heads, and truss them, i same as a roast fowl, cutting off the us, and scalding and peeling the feet. russing them with the head on, as liown in the engraving, is still practised y many cooks, but the former method I II BOAST BLACK-COCK. How considered the best. Put them '>wn to a brisk fire, well baste them h butter, and serve with a piece of st under, and a good gravy and bread ice. After ti-ussing, some cooks cover breast with vine-leaves and slices of :on, and then roast them. They .uld be served in the same manner I with tho same accompaniments as h the plainly-roasted birds. Time. to 50 minutes. Average cost, from . to 6«. the braco ; but seldom bought. 'Jficient,—2 or 3 for a dish. Seasonable in the middle of August to tho end of jcomber. Blanc-mango BLACK-COCK, to Carve. Skilful carving of game imdoubtedly adds to the i^leasure of the guests at a dinner-table; for game seems pre-emi- nently to be composed of such delicate limbs and tender flesh that an inapt prac- titioner appears to more disadvantage when mauling these pretty and favourite dishes, than larger and more robust piices de resistance. This bird is variously served with or without the head on ; and, although we do not pei'sonally object to the appearance of the head as shown in the woodcut, yet it seems to be mora in vogue to serve it with- out. The carving is not difficult, but should be ele- BLACK-COCK. gantly and deftly done. Slices from the breast, cut in the direction of the dotted line from 2 to 1, should be taken off, the merrythought displaced, and the leg and wing removed by running the knife along from 3 to i, reserving the thigh, which is considered a great delicacy, for the mosthonoured guests, some of whom may also esteem the brains of this bird. BIiAWC-MANGE (a Supper Dish) Ingredients. — 1 pint of new milk, \\ oz. of isinglass, the rind of ^ lemon, \ lb. of loaf sugar, 10 bitter almonds, ^ oz. of sweet almonds, 1 pint of cream. Mode. — Put the milk into a saucepan, with the isinglass, lemon-rind, and sugar, and let these ingredients stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well fla- voured ; add the almonds, which should be blanched and pounded in a mortar to a paste, and let the milk just boil up; strain it through a fine sieve or muslin into a jug, add the cream, and stir the mixture occasionally until nearly cold. Let it stand for a few minutes, then pour it into the mould, which should be previously oiled with the purest salad-oil, or dipped in colJ water. There will bo a sediment at the bottom of tho jug, which must not be poured into the mould, as, when turned out, it would very much disfigure the appearance of the blanc-mange. This blanc-mange may be mado very much richer by using 1^ pint ot cream, und molting the isinglass in h pmt of boiling water. The flavour may also be very muchTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Blanc-mange, Cheap varied by adding bay-leaves, laurel-leaves, or essence of vanilla, instead of the lemon- rind and almonds. Noyeau, Maraschino, Cura^oa, or any favourite liqueur, added in small proportions, very much enhances BtiNC-MAKGE MOULD. the flavour of this always favourite dish. In turning it out, just loosen the edges of the blanc-mange from the mould, place a dish on it, and turn it quickly over: it should come out easily, and the blanc- mange have a smooth glossy appearance when the mould is oiled, which it fre- quently has not when it is only dipped in water. It may be garnished as fancy dictate s. Time. —About 1 ^ hour to steep the lemon-rind and almonds in the milk. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 3s. <5d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. BLANC-MANGE, Cheap. Ingredients.—| lb. of sugar, 1 quart of milk, 1^ oz, of isinglass, the rind of ^ lemon, 4 laurel-leaves. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan, and boil gently until the isinglass is dis- solved ; taste it occasionally to ascertain when it is sufficiently flavoured with the laui-ol-leaves; then take them out, and BLANC-MANGB. keep stirring the mixture over the fire for about 10 minutes. Strain it through A fine sieve into a jug, and, when nearly cold, pour it into a wcll-oilcd mould, omitting the sediment at the bottom. Turn it out carefully on a dish, and gar- nish witli preserves, bright jelly, or a comp6te of fruit. riWie.—Altogether, .J Brawn, to make hour. Average cost, M. Sufficient U) a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. BOUDIN h la KEINE (an Entree; M. Ude's Hecipe). Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 1 pint of Bechamel, salt and ca- yenne to taste, egg and bread crumbs. Mode.—Take the breasts and nice white meat from the fowls ; cut it into small dice of an equal size, and throw them into some good Bechamel {see Bechamel) ; season with salt and cayenne, and put the mixture into a dish to cool. When this prepara- tion is quite cold, cut it into 2 equal parts, which should be made into boudins of a long shape, the size of the dish they are intended to be served on ; roll them in flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and be cai'oful that the ends are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will break in the frying-pan ; fry them a nice colom-, put them before the fire to drain the greasy moisture from them, and sei-ve with the remainder of the Be- chamel poured round: this should be thinned with a little stock. Time.—10 minutes to fry the boudins. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, 1*. 3d. Suffi- cient for 1 entree. BBAWW, to make. Ingredients.—To a pig's head weighing 6 lbs. allow 1^ lb. lean beef, 2 table- spoonfuls of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, a little cayenne, 6 pounded cloves. Mode.—Cut off the checks and salt them, unless the head be small, when all may be used. After carefully cleaning the head, put it on in sufficient cold water to cover it, with the beef, and skim it just before it boils. A head weighing 6 lbs. will require boiling from 2 to 3 hours. When sufiSciently boiled to come off the bones easily, put it into a hot pan, remove the bones, and chop the mea* , with a sharp knife before the fire, togo- j ther with the beef. It is necessary to do \ this as quicliy as possible to prevent tli4 | fat setlUng in it. Sprinkle in the sea- soning, which should have been pre* viously mixed. Stu- it well and put it j quickly into a brawn-tin if you have one; j if not. a cake-tin or mould will nnswef , the purpose, if the meat is well pressed \ with weights, which must not bo removed j for several hours. When quite cold, dip the tin into boiling w.ater for a minute of two, and the preparation will turn out45 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bread-making and be fit for use. Time. —From 2 to 3 hours. Average cost, for a pig's head, i^d. per lb. Seasonable from September to March, JV^ote.—The liquor in which the head was boiled will make good pea soup, and tke fat, if skimmed off and boiled in water, and afterwards poured into cold water, answers the purpose of lard. BBEAD-MAKING. Panification, or bread-making, con- sists of the following processes, in th 9 tase of Wheaten Flour. Fifty or sixty t per cent, of water is added to the flour, with the addition of some leavening mat- ter, and preferably, of yeast from malt and hops. All kinds of leavening matter tliave, however, been, and are still used In different parts of the world: in the East Indies, " toddy," which is a liquor that flows from the wounded cocoa-nut f ree ; and in the West Indies, "dunder," :>r the refuse of the distillation of rum. riie dough then undergoes the well- ;uown process called kneading. The ^east produces fermentation, a process ; .\'hich may be thus described : — The lough reacting upon the leaveuina; mat- er introduced, the starch of the&ur is irausformed into saccharine matter, the : ;accharine matter being afterwards changed into alcohol and carbonic acid. The dough must bo well "bound," and ,'et allow the escape of the little bubbles 'f carbonic acid which accompany the rmentation, and which, in their pas- ire, cause the numerous little holes ,ich are seen in light bread. The yeast must bo good and fresh, if he bread is to be digestible and nice, italo yeast produces, instead of vinous erraentation, an acetous fermentation, yhich flavours the bread and makes it iisagreeable. A poor thin yeast pro- luces an imperfect fermentation, the csult being a heavy, unwholesome loaf. When the dough is well kneaded, it is :ft to stand for some time, and then, as ■on as it begins to swell, it is divided to loaves; after which it is again left o stand, when it once more swells up, iid manifests for the last time the symp- >ms ol fermentation. It is then put into ho oven, where the water contained in ho dough is partly evaporated, and the lavcs swell up again, whilo a yellow rnst begins to form upon the surface, Vhen the bread is sufficiently baked, the Bread-making bottom crust is hard and resonant if struck with the finger, while the crumb is elastic, and rises again after being pressed down with the finger. The bread is, in all probability, baked sufficiently if, on opening the door of the oven, you are met by a cloud of steam, which quickly passes away. One word as to the unwholesomeness of new bread and hot rolls. When bread is taken out of the oven, it is full of moisture ; the starch is held together in masses, and the bread, instead of being crusted so as to expose each grain of starch to the saliva, actually prevents their digestion by being formed by the teeth into leathery poreless masses, which lie on the stomach like so many bullets. Bread should always be at least a day old before it is eaten; and, if properly made, and kept in a cool dry place, ought to be perfectly soft and palatable at the end of three or four days. Hot rolls, swimming in melted butter, and new bread, ought to be carefully shunned by everybody who has the slightest respect for that much-injured individual — the Stomach. Aerated Bread.—It is not unknovra to some of our readers that Dr. Dauglish, of Malvern, has recently patented a pro- cess for making bread "light," withoui the use of leaven. The ordinary process of bread-making by fermentation is te- dious, and much labour of human hands is requisite in the kneading, in order that the dough may be thoroughly interpene- trated with the leaven. The new process impregnates the bread, by the application of machinery, with carbonic acid gas, or fixed air. Different opinions are ex- pressed about the bread ; but it is curious to note, that, as corn is now reaped by machinery, and dough ia baked by ma- chinery, the whole process of bread- making is probably in course of under- going changes which will emancipate both the housewife and the professional baker from a large amount of labour. In the production of Aerated Broad, wheaten flour, water, salt, and carbonio acid gas (generated by proper machinery), are the only materials employed. We need not inform our readers that car- bonic acid gas is the source of the effer- vescence, whether in common water coming from a depth, or in lemonade, or any aerated drink. Its action, in tho new bread, takes the place of formcuta I ticn in 1,he old. ITUB DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 46 Bread-making In the patent process, the dough is mixed in a great iron ball, inside which is a system of paddles, perpetually turn- ing, and doing the kneading part of the business. Into this globe the flour is dropped till it is full, and then the com- mon atmospheric air is pumped out, and the pure gas turned on. The gas is fol- lowed by the water, which has been aerated for tho purpose, and then begins the churning or kneading part of the business. Of course, it is not long before we have the dough, and very " light" and nice it looks. This is caught in tins, and passed on to the floor of the oven, which is an endless floor, moving slowly through the fire. Done to a turn, the loaves emerge at the other end of the apartment,—and the Aerated Bread is made. It may be added, that it is a good plan to change one's baker from time to time, and so secure a change in the quality of the bread that is eaten. Mixed Beeads. —Rye bread is hard of digestion, and requires longer and slower baking than wheaten bread. It is better when made with leaven of wheaten flour rather than yeast, and turns out lighter. It should not be eaten till two days old. It will keep a long time. A good bread may be made by mixing rye-flour, wheat-flour, and rice-paste, in equal proportions; also by mixing rye, wheat, and barley. In Norway, it is said that they only bake their barley bread once a yeai", such is its "keeping" quaUty. Indian-corn flour mixed with wheat- flour (half with half) makes a nice bread, but it is not considered very digestible, though it keeps well. Rice cannot be made into bread, nor can potatoes; but one-third potato-flour to threo-fourths wheaten flour makes a tolerably good loaf. A very good bread, bet.ter than the ordinary sort, and of a delicious flavour, is said to be produced by adopting the following recipe : — Take ten parts of wheat-flour, five parts of potato-flour, one part of rico-pasto ; knead together, add the yeast, and bake as usual. This is, of course, cheaper than wheaten bread. Flour, when freshly ground, is too glu- tinous to make good bread, and should therefore not be used immediately, but Bhould be kept dry for a few weeks, and Btirred occasionally imtil it becomes Bread-making dry, and crumbles easily between the fingers. Flour should be perfectly dry before being used for bread or cakes; if at all damp, the preparation is sure to bo heavy. Before mixing it with tho other ingredients, it is a good plan to place it for an hour or two before tho fire, until it feels warm and dry. Yeast from home-brewed beer is gene- rally preferred to any other: it is very bitter, and on that account should bo well washed, and put away until tho thick mass settles. If it still continues bitter, the process should be repeated ; and, before being used, all the water floating at the top must be poured ofl^. German yeast is now very much used, and should be moistened, and thoroughly mixed with the milk or water with which the bread is to be made. The following observations are ex- tracted from a valuable work on Bread- making, and will bo found very useful to our readers:— The fii-st thing required for making wholesome bread is the utmost cleanU- ness; the next is the soundness and sweetness of all the ingredients used for it; and, in addition to these, there must be attention and care through tho whole process. An almost certain way of spoiling dough is to leave it half-made, and to allow it to become cold before it is finished. The other most common causes of failure are using yeast which is no longer sweet, or which has been frozen, or has had hot liquid poured over it. Too small a proportion of yeast, or in- suificient time allowed for tho dough to rise, will cause the bread to be heavy. Heavy bread will also most likely be tho result of making the dough very hard, and letting it become quite cold, particularly in wmter. If either tho sponge or the dough bo permitted to overwork itself, that is to say, it the mixing and kneading be ne- glected when it has reached the proper point for either, sour bread will probably bo tho consequence in warm weather, and bad bread in any. Tho g:oodness will also be endangered by placing it so near the fire as to make any part of it hot, instead of maintaining the gentle and equal degree of heat required ior its dae fermentation. Nils, or Butter.—Milk which is not47 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bread-making ' M-fectly sweet will not only injure the TOUT of the bread, but, in sultry ■ather, will often cause it to be quite uueatable ; yet either of them, if fresh and good, will materially improve its quality. To keep bread sweet and fresh, as soon as it is cold it shoiald be put into a clean earthen pan, with a cover to it: th is pan should be placed at a little dis- tance from the ground, to allow a cur- rent of air to pass underneath. Some rsons prefer keeping bread on clean oden shelves without being covered, that the crust may not soften. Stale I'l ead may be freshened by warming it through in a gentle oven. Stale pastry, cakes, &c., may also be improved by this iiiothod. The utensils required for making iroad on a moderate scale, are a knead- Hij-trough or pan, sufficiently large hat the dough may bo kneaded freely without throwing the flom* over the erlges, and also to allow for its rising; a hair sieve for straining yeast, and one or two strong spoons. Yeast must always be good of its kind, ind in a fitting state to produce ready md proper fermentation. Yeast of strong beer or ale produces more effect than that of milder kinds; and the fresher the yeast, the smaller the quan- tity will be required to raise the dough. I As a general rule, the oven for baking bread should be rather quick, and the heat so regulated as to penetrate the dough without hardening the outside. The oven door should not be opened after the bread is put in until the dough is (t, or has become firm, as the cool air imitted, will have an unfavourable • flfect on it. Brick ovens are generally considered ■he best adapted for baking bread : these hould be heated with wood faggots, and •lien swept and mopped out, to cleanse •hem for the reception of the bread, on ovens are more difficult to manage, eing apt to bum the surface of the road before the middle is baked. To emedy this, a few clean bricks should ibe set at the bottom of the oven close gether, to receive tho tins of broad, many modem stoves the ovens are so uch improved that they bake admi- bly, and they can always bo brought _ the required temperature, when it is igher than is needed, by leaving the oor open for tinao. Bread, to make good Home-made BKEAD, to make good Home- made (Miss Acton's Kecipe). Ingredients.—1 quartern of flour, 1 large tablespoonful of solid brewer's yeast, or nearly 1 oz. of fresh German yeast, !!■ to 1^ pint of warm milk-and- water. Mode.—Put the flour into a large earthenware bowl or deep pan ; then, with a strong metal or wooden spoon, hollow out the middle ; but do not clear i'^ entirely away from the bottom of tho pan, as, in that case, the sponge, or leaven (as it was formerly termed) would stick to it, which it ought not to do. OOTTAGH LOAP. Next take either a large table-spoonful of brewer's yeast which has been ren- dered solid by mixing it with plenty of cold water, and letting it afterwards stand to settle for a day and night; or nearly an ounce of German yeast; put it into a large basin, and proceed to mix it, so that it shall be as smooth as cream, with I pint of warm milk-and-water, or with water only; though even a very little mUk will much improve the bread. Pour the yeast into the hole made in the flour, and stir into it as much of that which lies round it as will make a thick batter, in which there must be no lumps. Strew plenty of flour on the top, throw a thick clean cloth over, and set it where the air is warm; but do not place it upon TIN BEE AD. tho kitchen fender, for it will becomo too much heated there. Look at it from time to time: when it has been laid for nearly an hour, and when the yeast has risen and broken through the flour, so that bubbles appear in it, you will know that it is ready to be made up into dough. Then place tho pan on a strong chair, or dresser, or table, of convenient height ; pour into tho sponge llio re- mainder of tho warm milk-and-w&t<;r;THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 48 Bread, to make a Peck of good stir into it as much of the flour as you can with tho spoon; then wipo it out clean with your fingers, and lay it aside. Next take plenty of the remaining flour, throw it on the top of the leaven, and begin, with the knuckles of both bands, to knead •'A well. When tho flour is nearly all kneaded in, begin to draw the edges of the dough towards the middle, in order to mix the whole thoroughly ; and when it is free from flour and lumps and crumbs, and does not stick to tho hands when touched, it will bo done, and may be covered with tho cloth, and left to rise a second time. In f hour look at it, and should it have swollen very much and begin to crack, it will be light enough to bake. Turn it then on to a paste-board or very clean dresser, and with a large sharp knife divide it in two; make it up quickly into loaves, and despatch it to the oven; make one or two incisions across the tops of the loaves, as they will rise more easily if this be done. If baked in tins or pans, rub them with a tiny piece of butter laid on a piece of clean paper, to prevent the dough from sticking to them. All bread should be turned upside down, or on its side, as soon as it is drawn from the oven: if this be neglected, the under Eart of the loaves will become wet and listered from the steam, which cannot then escape from them. To niahe the dough 7uithout setting a sponge, merely mix the yeast with the greater part of the warm milk-and-water, and wet up the whole of the flour at once after a little salt has been stirred in, proceeding exactly, in every other respect, as in tho directions just given. As the dough will soften in the rising, it should be made quite firm at first, or it will be too lithe by the time it is ready for the oven. Time.—To be left to rise an hour the first time, f hour the second time ; to be baked from 1 to li hour, or baked in one loaf from 1^ to 2 nours. BBEAD, to make a Peck of good. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 6 pints of cold water, .J pint of good yeast, a peck of flour, 2 oz. of salt. Modc—VocX and boil tho potatoes; beat them to a cream while warm; then add 1 pint of cold water, strain through a colander, and add to it h pint of good yeast, which should have been put in water over-night to take olT its bitterness. Stir all well Bread-and-butter Pudding, Baked together with a wooden spoon, and pour the mixture into the centre of the flour; mix it to tho substance of cream, cover it over closely, and let it remain near the fire for an hour; then add the 5 pints of water, milk-warm, with 2 oz. of salt; pour this in, and mix the whole to a nice light dough. Let it remain for about 2 hours; then make it into 7 loaves, and bake for about 1^ hour in a good oven. When baked, the bread should weigh nearly 20 lbs. Time.—AhoVii \ h hour. BBEAD-AND-BUTTEB PBITTEIIS. Ingredients.—Batter, 8 slices of bread and butter, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of jam. Mode.—Make a batter, the same as for apple fritters; cut some slices of bread and butter, not very thick ; spread half of them with any jam that may be pre- ferred, and cover with the other shces; slightly press them together, and cut them out in square, long, or round pieces. Dip them in the batter, and fry in boiling lard for about 10 minutes; drain them before the fire on a piece of blotting-paper or cloth. Dish them, sprinkle over sifted sugar, and serve. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. BBEAD - AND - BUTTEB PUD- DING, Baked. Ingredients.—9 thin slices of bread and butter, 1.^ pint of milk, 4 eggs, sugar to taste, ;J lb.of currants, flavouringof vanilla, grated lemon-peel, or nutmeg. Mode.— Cut 9 slices of bread and butter, not very thick, and put them into a pie-dish, with currants between each layer, and on tho top. Sweeten and flavour the milk, either by infusing a little lemon-peel in it, or by adding a few drops of essence of vanilla; well whisk tho eggs, and stir these to Iho milk. Strain this over tho bread and , butter, and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour, or rather longer. This pudding may be very much enriched by adding cream, candied peel, or more eggs than stated above, it should not bo turned out, but sent to table in tho pie-dish, and is better for being made about two hours before it is baked. Time.—I hour, or rather longer. Average cost, 9d. Snffi- cieni for (J or 7 persona. Seasonable »* any time.49 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bread Crumbs, Fried BREAD CRUMBS, Priecl. Cut the bread into thin slices, place them iu a cool oven overnight, and when thoroughly dry and crisp, roll them down into fine crumbs. Put some lard, or clarified dripping, into a frying-pan ; bring it to the boiling-point, throw in the crumbs, and fry them very quickly. Directly they are done, lift them out with a slice, and drain them before the fire from all greasy moisture. When qiute crisp, they are ready for use. The fat they are fried in should be clear, and the crumbs should not have the slightest appearance or taste of having been, in the least degree, burnt. BREAD, Fried, for Borders. Proceed by fr3'ing some slices of bread, cut in any fanciful shape, in boiling lard. When quite crisp, dip one side of the sippet into the beaten white of an egg mixed with a little flour, and place it on the edge of the dish. Continue in this manner till the border is completed, ar- ranging the sippets a pale and a dark one alternately. BREAD, Fried Sippets of, for Gar- nisbing many Dishes. Cut the bread into thin slices, and stamp them out in whatever shape you like,—rings, crosses, diamonds, &c. &c. Fry them in the same manner as the bread crumbs, in clear boiling lard or clarified dripping, and drain them until thoroughly crisp before the fire. When variety is desired, fry some of a pale colour, and others of a darker hue. BREAKFASTS.' It will not be necessary to give here a long bill of fare of cold joints, &c., which may be placed on the sideboard, and do duty at the breakfast-table. Suffice it to say, that any cold meat the larder may furnish should be nicely garnished and be placed on the buffet. Collared and potted meats or fish, cold game or poultry, veal-and-ham pies, game-and- rumpsteak pics, are all suitable dishes for the breakfast-table; as also cold ham, tongue, &c. &c. The following list of hot dishes may perhaps assist our readers in knowing what to provide for the comfortable meal BriU called breakfast. Broiled fish, such as mackerel, whiting, herrings, dried had- docks, &c. ; mutton chops and rump- steaks, broiled sheep's kidneys, kidneys h, la m4itre d'hdtel, sausages, plain rashers of bacon, bacon and poached eggs, ham and poached eggs, omelets, plain boiled eggs, ceufs-au-plat, poached eggs on toast, muffins, toast, marmalade, but- ter, &c. &c. In the summer, and when they are obtainable, always have a vase of freshly- gathered flowers on the breakfast-table, and, when convenient, a nicely-arranged dish of fruit: when strawberries are in season, these are particularly refreshing; as also grapes, or even currants. BRILL. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gal- lon of water; a little vinegar. Mode.— Clean the brill, cut off the fins, and rub it over with a little lemon-juice, to pre- serve its whiteness. Set the fish in suffi- cient cold water to cover it; throw in salt, in the above proportions, and a little vihegar, and bring it gradually to boil: simmer very gently till the fish is done, which will be in about 10 minutes for a small brill, reckoning from the time the water begins to simmer. It is difficult to give the exact number of minutes required for cooking a brill, as the fish varies some- what in thickness, but the cook can always bear in mind that fish of every descrip- tion should be very thoroughly dressed, and never come to table in the least degree 2inderdone. The time for boiling of course depends entirely on the size of the fish. Sen'e it on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, horseradish, and a little lobster coral sprinkled over the fish. Send lobster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter to table with it. Time.—After the water boils, a small brill, 10 minutes; a medium sized brill, 15 to 20 minutes ; a large brill, ^ hour. A verage cost, from 45. to 8s.; but when the market is plentifully supplied, may be had from 2s. each. Seasonahle from August to April. To choose Brill—The flesh of this fish, like that of turbot, should be of a yellow- ish tint, and should bo chosen on account of its thickness. If the flesh has a bluish tint, it is not good. A Brill and John Dory are carved in the same manner as a Turbot.50 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Browning, for Stock Note.—The thick parts of the middle of tho back are the best slices in a tur- HOW TO CAEYB A BEILt. bot; and the rich gelatinous skin cover- ing the fish, as well as a little of tJie thick part of the fins, are dainty morsels, and should be placed on each plate. BROWNING, for Stock. Inaredients.—2 oz. of powdered sugar, and ^ a pint of water. Mode.—Place the sugar in a stewpan over a slow fire until it begins to melt, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon until it becomes black, when add the water, and let it dissolve. Cork closely, and use a few drops when required. Note.—In France, burnt onions are made use of for the purpose of browning. As a general rale, the process of brown- ing is to be discouraged, as apt to impart a slightly unpleasant flavour to tho stock, and consequently all soups made from it. BBOWNINa for Gravies and Sauces. The browning for stock answers equally TTcll for sauces and gravies, when it is absolutely necessary to colour them in this manner; but where they can bo made to look brown by using ketchup, wine, browned flour, tomatoes, or any coloured flauco, it is far preferable. As, howovor, Bubble-and-Squeak in cooking so much depends on appear- ance, perhaps it would be as well for the inexperienced cook to use the artificial means. When no browning is at hand, and you wish to heighten the colour of your gravy, dissolve a lump of sugar in an iron spoon close to a sharp fire ; when it is in a liquid state, drop it into the sauce or gravy quite hot. Care, however, must be taken not to put in too much, as it would impart a very disagreeable flavour to the preparation. BRUSSELS-SPROUTS, BoHed. Ingredients.—To ezioh. i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. Mode.—Clean the sprouts from insects, nicely wash them, and pick off any dead or discoloured leaves from the outsides ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion ; keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly over a brisk fire until tender; di'ain, dish, and serve with a tureen of melted butter, or with a maitre d'hotel sauce poured over them. Another mode of serving them is, when they are dished, to stir in about 1^ oz. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. They must, however, be sent to table very quickly, as, being so very small, this vegetable soon cools. Where the cook is very expeditious, this vegetable when cooked may be arranged on the dish in the form of a pineapple, and so served has a very pretty appearance. Time.— from 9 to 12 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, Is. id. per peck. Sufficient.—Allow between 40 and 50 for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Novem- ber to March. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Inaredienis, —A few thin slices of cold boiled beef; butter, cabbage, 1 sliced onion, pep- per and salt to taste. Mode. — Fry the slices of beef gently in a little but- ter, taking care not to dry them up. Lay them on a flat dish, and cover with fried greens. The greens may be pre- pared from cabbage sprouts or green savoys. They should be boiled till tender, well drained, minced, and placd, till quite hot, in a frying-pan, with butter, a sliced onion, and seasoning of pepper and salt. When the ouion is Uono, it is ready to servo- Time- -Alto-51 THE DrCTIONAEY OI' COOKERY. Bullock's Heart, to Dress a gether, h hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold beef, 3cZ. Seasonable at any time. BTTIiLOCK S HEAKT, to Dress a. Ingredients.—1 heart, stuffing of veal forcemeat. Mode.—Put the heart into warm water to soak for 2 hours; then wipe it well with a cloth, and, after cutting off the lobes, stuff the inside with Ldghly-seasoned forcemeat. Fasten it n, by means of a needle and coarse thread ; tie the heart up in paper, and let it before a good fire, being very par- ticular to keep it well basted, or it will 3at dry, there being very little of its own at. Two or three minutes before dishing ■emove the paper, baste well, and serve ith good gravy and red-cuiTant jelly or nelted butter. If the heart is very large, t will require 2 hours, and, covered with k caul, may be baked as well as roasted. Time.—Large heart, 2 hours. Average ost, 2s. 6d. Sufficieiit for 6 or 8 persons. 'kasonahle all the year. Note.—This is an excellent family dish, 3 very savoury, and, though not seen at lany good tables, may be recommended ar its cheapness and economy. rs, Light. Ingredients.—\ teaspoonful of tartaric cid, ^ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, lb. of flour, 2oz. of butter, 2 oz. of loaf agar, \ lb. of currants or raisins,—when jked, a few caraway seeds, h pint of cold lew milk, 1 egg. Mode.—Rub the tar- trio acid, soda, and flour all together trough a hair sieve; work the butter Tito tiie flour J add the sugar, cuirants, BtTKS. hd caraway seeds, when the flavour of ko latter is liked. Mix all these ingre- Hents well together ; make a hole in the iddle of the flour, and pour in the milk, xed with the egg, which should be 11 beaten; mix quickly, and set the igh, with a fork, on baking-tins, and ke the buns for about 20 minutes, lis mixture makes a very good cake, id if put into a tin, should bo baked IJ ■nr. The same quantity of flour, soda, il tartaric acid, with J pint of milk and little salt, will make either bread or Butter, Clarified teacakes, if wanted quickly. _ Time.—20 minutes for the buns; if made into a cake, 1^ hour. Sufficient to make about 12 buns. BUJSrS, Plain. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of good butter, I lb. of sugar, 1 egg, nearly I pint of milk, 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, a few drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—Warm the butter, without oiling it; beat it with a wooden spoon; stir the flour in gradually with the sugar, and mix these ingredients well together. Make the milk lukewarm, beat up with it the yolk of the egg and the essence of lemon, and stir these to the flour, &c. Add the baking-powder, beat the dough well for about 10 minutes, divide it into 24 pieces, put them into buttered tins or cups, and bake in a brisk oven from 20 to 30 mv nutes. Time.—20 to 30 minutes. Aver- age cost, Is. Sufficient to make 12 buns. Seasonable at any time. BUlSrS, Victoria. Ingredients. — 2 oz. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 egg, 1^ oz. of ground rice, 2 oz. of butter, 1^ oz. of currants, a few thin slices of candied-peel, flour. Mode. — Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat these ingredients both together ; beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, currants, and candied-peel, and as much flour as will make it of such a consistency that it may be rolled into 7 or 8 balls. Place these on a buttered tin, and bake them for | to f hour. They should bo put into the oven immediately or they will become heavy, and the oven should be tolerably brisk. Time.—^ to | hour. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 buns. Seasonable at any time. BUTTER, Browned. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of minced parsley, 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. il/ofZe.—Pu<a|the butter into a fryingpan over a nice plear fire, and when it smokes, throw in the parsley, and add the vinegar and seasoning. Let the whole simmer for a minute or two, when it is ready to serve. This is a very good sauce for skate. Time.—^ hour. BUTTER, Clarified. Put the butter in a basin before thoTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 53 Butter, Curled fire, and when it melts, stir it round once or twice, and let it settle. Do not strain it unless absolutely necessary, as it causes so much waste. Pour it gently off into a clean dry jar, carefully leaving all sediment behind. Lot it cool, and carefully exclude the air by means of a bladder, or piece of wash-leather, tied over. If the butter is salt, it may bo washed before melting, when it is to bo used for sweet dishes. T3UTTEH, Curled. Tie a strong cloth by two of the comers to an iron hook in the wall; make a knot with the other two ends, so that a stick might pass through. Put the butter into the cloth; twist it tightly over a dish, into which the butter will fall through the knot, so forming small and pretty little strings. The butter may then be garnished with parsley, if to serve with a cheese course; or it may be sent to table plain for brealcfast, in an ornamental dish. Squirted butter for garnishing hams, salads, eggs, &c., is made by forming a piece of stiff paper in the shape of a cornet, and squeezing the butter in fine string from tho hole at the bottom. Scooped butter is made by dipping a teaspoon or scooper in warm water, and then scooping the butter quickly and thin. In warm weather, it would not be necessary to heat tho spoon. BUTTER, Fairy. Ingredients. — The yolks of 2 hard- boiled eggs, 1 tablespoonful of orange- flower water, 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, \ lb. of good fresh butter. Mode. —Beat the yolks of tho eggs smoothly in a mortar, with tho orange-flower water and the sugar, until the whole is reduced to a fine paste; add the butter, and force all through an old but clean cloth by wringing the cloth and squeezing the butter v'ery hard. Tho butter will then drop on the plate in large and small pieces, according to the holes in the cloth. Plain butter may be done in the same manner, and is very quickly pro- pared, besides having a very good efl"ect. BUTTEB, to keep Fresh. Butter may be kept fresh for ton or twelve (lays by a very simple process. Knead it well in cold water till the butter- milk is extracted; then put it in a glazed Butter, Kancid jar, which invert in another, putting into tho latter a sufficient quantity of water to exclude tho air. Kenew tho water every day. BUTTER,' Maltre d'Hotel, for putting into Broiled Fish just- before it is sent to Table. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, 2 dessert spoonfuls of minced parsley, salt and pepper to tasto, tho juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.—Work the above ingre- dients well together, and let them ba thoroughly mixed with a wooden spoon. If this is used as a sauce, it may be poured either under or over the meat or fish it is intended to be served with. Average cost, for this quantity, 5d. Note.—4 tablespoonfuls of Bechamel, 2 do. of white stock, with 2 oz. of tho above maltre d'hCtel butter stirred into it, and just allowed to simmer for 1 minute, will be found an excellent hot maitre d'hCtel sauce. BUTTER, Melted. Ingredients.—^Ib. of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, 1 wineglassful of water, salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the butter up into small pieces, put it into a saucepan, dredge over the flour, and add the water and a seasoning of salt; stir it one way constantly till the whole of the ingre- dients are melted and thoroughly blended. Let it just boil, when it is ready to serve. If the butter is to be melted with cream, use the same quantity as of water, but omit tho flour ; keep stirring it, but do not allow it to boil. Time.—l minute to simmer. Avei'oge cost for this quan- tity, id. BUTTER, Melted (more Econo- mical). Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of flour, salt to taste, i pint of water. Mode.—Mix the flour and water to a smooth batter, which put into a saucepan. Add tho butter and a season- ing of salt, keep stirring one vay till aU tho ingredients are melted and perfectly smooth ; let tho whole boil for a minute or two, and serve. Time.—2 minutes to siratner. Average cost for this quan- tity, 2d. BUTTER, Rancid, What to do with. When butter has become very rancid.53 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Butter, Melted Hit should bo melted several times by a ■moderate heat, with or without the addi- Ation of water, and as soon as it has been ■well kneaded, after the cooling, in order Ito extract any water it may have retained, ftt should be put into brown freestone ■pots, sheltered from the contact of the Kir. The French often add to it, after it •Lasbeen melted, apiece of toasted bread, ■Which helps to destroy the tendency of the butter to rancidity. BTTTTER, Melted (the Prencli Sauce Blanche). Ingredients.—\ lb. of fresh butter, 1 ;ablespoonful of flour, salt to taste, ^ gill )f water, \ spoonful of white vinegar, a very ittle grated nutmeg. Mode.—Mix the iour and water to a smooth batter, care- 'ully rubbing down with the back of a ipoon any lumps that may appear. Put t in a saucepan with all the other ingre- lients, and let it thicken on the fire, )ut do not allow it to boil, lest it should aste of the flour. Times.—1 minute to limmer. Average cost, 5d. for this quan- iiy. BUTTER, Melted, made with Milk. II Ingredients.—l teaspoonful of flour, \ oz. of butter, ^ pint of milk, a few grains of salt. Mode.—Hyx. the butter ind flour smoothly together on a plate, )ut it into a lined saucepan, and pour in he milk. Keep stirring it one xmy over 1, sharp fire; let it boil quickly'for a ninute or two, and it is ready to serve. Phis is a very good foundation for onion, obster, or oyster sauce : using milk astead of water makes it look much whiter and more dehcate. Tme.—Alto- ;ether, 10 minutes. Average cost for this uantity, Zd. JABBAGE, Boiled. Ingredients.—Ho each I gallon of water How 1 heaped tablcspoonful of salt- . very small piece of soda. Mode.— ■ick oflt all the dead outside leaves, cut ff as much of the stalk as possible, and Ut the cabbages across twice, at tho talk end ; if they should bo very lar^e ,iiarl,er them. "Wash them well in cold rater, place them in a colander, and rain ; then put them into 'plenty oi fast- oiling water, to which have been added lalt and soda in the above proportions, ■ptir them down once or twice in the Cabbage, Red, Stewed water, keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly until tender. The instant they are done, take them up into a colander, place a plate over them, let them thoroughly drain, dish, and serve. Time.—Large cabbages, or savoys, 2 tof hour, young summer cabbage, 10 to 1* minutes, after the water boils. Averag cost, 2d. each in full season. Sufficient.^ 2 large ones for 4 or 5 persons. Sea sonahle.—Cabbages and sprouts of variou, kinds at any time. CABBAGE, Red, Pickled. Ingredients.—Red cabbages, salt and water; to each quart of vinegar, ^ oz. of ginger well bruised, 1 oz. of whole black pepper, and, when liked, a little cayenne. Mode.—Take off the outside decayed leaves of a nice red cabbage, cut it ia quarters, remove the stalks, and cut it across in very thin slices. Lay these on a dish, and strew them plentifully with salt, covering them with another dish. Let them remain for 24 hours, turn into a colander to drain, and, if necessary, wipe lightly with a clean soft cloth. Put them in a jar; boil up the vinegar with spices in the above proportion, and, when cold, pour it over the cabbage. It will be fit for use in a week or two, and, if kept for a very long time, the cabbage is liable to get soft and to discolour. To be really nice and crisp, and of a good red colour, it should be eaten almost im. mediately after it is made. A little bruised cochineal boiled with the vinegar adds much to the appearance of this pickle. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. Seasonable in July and August, but the piclde will be much more crisp if the frost has just touched the leaves. CABBAGE, Red, Stewed. Ingredients.—l red cabbage, a small slice of ham, i oz. of fresh butter, 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablcspoonful of poundBd sugar. Mode.—Oni the cab- bage into very thin slices, put it into a stewpan, with tho ham cut in dice, tho butter, h pint of stock, and tho vinegar: cover the pan closely, and let it stow for 1 hour. When it is very tender, add the remainder of the stock, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and the pounded sugar; mix all well together, stir over the firo until nearly all tho liquor is dried away.54 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOEEEY.. Cabbage Soup and serve. Fried sausages are usually sent to table with this dish : they should be laid round and on the cabbage, as a garnish. Tme.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, id. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from Septem- ber to January. CABBAGE SOUP. Ingredients.—1 large cabbage, 3 car- rots, 2 onions, 4 or 5 slices of lean bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode.—Scald the cab- bage, cut it up and drain it. Line the stewpan with the bacon, put in the cabbage, carrots, and onions; moisten with skimmings from the stock, and sim- mer very gently, till the cabbage is tender ; add the stock, stew softly for half an hour, and carefully skim off every particle of fat. Season and serve. Time, 1^ hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. CABINET OP CHANCELLOR'S PUDDING. Ingredients.—1| oz. of candied peel, 4 oz. of currants, 4 dozen sultanas, a few slices of Savoy cake, sponge cake, a French roll, 4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, grated lemon-rind, ^ nutmeg, 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Melt some butter to a paste, and with it, well grease the mould or basin in which the pudding is to be boiled, taking care that it is buttered in every part. Cut the peel into thin slices, and place these in a fanciful device at the bottom of the mould, and fill in the spaces between with currants and sultanas; then add a few slices of sponge cake or French roll; drop a few drops of CABINET puDDiN-Q, moltcd buttcr on those, and between each layer sprinkle a few currants. Pro- ceed in this manner until the mould is nearly full; then flavour the milk with nutmeg and grated lemon-rind ; add the sugar, and stir to this the eggs, which should be well beaten. Beat this mix- ture for a few minutes ; then' strain it into the mould, which should be quite full; tie a piece of buttered paper over it, and lot it stand for two hours ; then tie it down with a cloth, put it into Caf6 Noir boiling water, and let it boil slowly for 1 hour. In taking it up, let it stand for a qpinute or two before the cloth is re- moved ; then quickly turn it out of the mould or basin, and serve with sweet sauce separately. The flavouring of this pudding may be varied by substituting for the lemond-rind essence of vanilla or bitter almonds; and it may be made I much richer by using cream; but this is not at all necessary. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. CABINET or BOILED BEEAD- AND - BUTTEB PUDDING, Plain. Ingredients.—2 oz. of raisins, a few thin slices of bread and butter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, \ nutmeg. ^Mode.—Butter a pudding-basin, and line the inside with a layer of raisins that have been previously stoned; then nearly " fiU the basin with slices of bread and butter with the crust cut ofif, and, in another basin, beat the eggs; add to them the milk, sugar, and grated nut- mej<; mix all well together, and pour the whole on to the bread and butter ; let it stand h hour, then tie a floured cloth over it; boil for 1 hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Care must be taken that the basin is quite full before the cloth is tied over. Time.—1 hour. Average coft, 9d. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. CAPE AU LAIT. This is merely very strong coffee added to a large proportion of good hot milk ; about 6 tablespoonfuls of strong coftoo being quite sufficient for a breakfast- cupful of milk. Of the essence which ^ answers admirably for cafe au hit, so much would not be required. This pre- paration is infinitely superior to the weak watery coffee so often served at TSnglish tables. A Uttlo cream mixed with the milk, if the latter cannot bo depended on for richness, improves the taste of the coffee, as also the richness of the beverage. Sufficient.—6 tablespoon- fuls of strong coflee, or 2 tablespoonfuls of the essence, to a breakfast-cupful of milk. CAPE NOIR. This is usually handed round after dinner, and should bo drunk well55 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Cakes, Making and Baking of s weetened, with the addition of a little 1'randy or liqueurs, which may be added c r not at pleasure. The coffee should be I'le very strong, and served in very all cups, but never mixed with milk cream. Ca/e noir may be made of the , r^ence of coffee by pouring a table- spoonful into each cup, and filling it up ith boiling water. This is a very iiple and expeditious manner of pre- ! ing coffee for a large party, but the ijnce for it must be made very good, i kept well coi'ked until required for use. OAKES, Making and Baking of. Bgffs should always be broken into a [>, the whites and yolks separated, and iioy should always be strained. Break- ng the eggs thus, the bad ones may 13e easily rejected without spoiling the ' )thers, and so cause no waste. As eggs .re used instead of yeast, they should be ery thoroughly whisked; they are ge- icrally sufficiently beaten when thick •nough to carry the drop that falls from ho whisk. Loaf Sugar should be well pounded, ,ik1 then sifted through a fine sieve. Currants should be nicely washed, ked, dried in a cloth, and then care- ly examined, that no pieces of grit -tone may beleft amongst them. They iiould then bo laid on a dish before the i 10, to become thoroughly dry; as, if led damp to the other ingredients, ::os will be liable to be heavy. Good Butter should always be used in ^0 manufacture of cakes; and, if beaten a cream, it saves much time and la- ir to warm, but not melt, it before iting. IjBhs butter and eggs are required for ;gs when yeast is mixed with the other redients. rhe heat of the oven is of great import- iice, especially for large cakes. If the ' at be not tolerably fierce, the batter ! 1 not rise. If the oven is too quick, - I there is any danger of the cake iirning or catching, put a sheet of clean uper over the top : newspaper, or paper Ihat has been printed on, should never ie used for this purpose. I To know when a cake is sufficionl.ly jaked, plunge a clean knife into the liiddlo of it; draw it quickly out, and if looks in the least sticky put the cake :!c, and close the oven door until the is dong. Cake, Common Cakes should be kept in closed tin canisters or jars, and in a dry place. Those made with yeast do not keep so long as those made without it. CAKES, nice Breakfast. liigredients.—1 lb. of flour, g teaspoon- ful of tartaric acid, ^ teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1^ breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, 2 eggs. Mode. —These cakes are made in the same manner as the soda bread, with the addition of eggs and sugar. Mix the flour, tartaric acid, and salt well together, taking care that the two latter ingredients are reduced to the finest powder, and stir in the sifted sugar which should also be very fine. Dissolve the soda in the milk, add the eggs, which should be well whisked, and with this liquid work the flour, &c. into a light dough. Divide it into small cakes, put them into the oven immediately, and bake for about 20 minutes. Time.—20 minutes, CAKE, Christmas. Ingredients.—5 teacupfuls of flour, 1 teacupful of melted butter, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teacupful of treacle, 1 teacup- ful of moist sugar, 2 eggs, ^ oz. of pow- dered ginger, ^ lb. of raisins, 1 teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.— Make the butter sufficiently warm to melt it, but do not allow it to oil; put the flour into a basin, add to it the sugar, ginger, and raisins, which should be stoned and cut into small pieces. When these dry ingi-e- dients are thoroughly mixed, stir in the butter, cream, treacle, and well-whisked eggs, and beat the mixture for a few minutes. Dissolve the soda in the vine- gar, add it to the dough, and be parti- cular that these latter ingredients are well incorporated with the otliers; put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, place it in a moderate oven immediately, and bake it from 1^ to 2^ hours. Timet —If to 2^ hours. Average cost, Is. &d. CAKE, Common (suitable for send- ing to Children at School). Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 4 oz. of butter or clarified dripping, h oz. of ca- raway seeds, ^ oz. of allspice, h lb. of pounded sugar, 1 lb. of currants," 1 pint of Bjilk, 3 tablespoonfuls of fresh yea.3t.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY 5G Cake, Economical Mode.—Eub tho butter lightly into the flour; add all the dry ingredients, and mix these well together. Make the milk warm, but not hot; stir in the yeast, and ■with this liquid mix the whole into a light dough ; knead it well, and line the cake-tins with strips of buttered paper: this paper should be about 6 inches higher than tho top of the tin. Put in the dough ; stand it in a warm place to rise for more than an hour, then bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. If this quantity be divided into two, they will take from 1^ to 2 hours' baking, Time. —1| to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 9cl. Sufficient to make 2 moderate-sized cakes. CAKE, Economical. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of butter or lard, | lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the whites of 4 eggs, ^ pint of milk. Mode.—In making many sweet dishes, the whites of eggs are not required, and if well beaten and added to the above ingredients, make an excellent cake with or without currants. Beat the butter to a cream, weU whisk the whites of the eggs, and stir all the ingredients together but the soda, which must not be added until all is well mixed, and the cake is ready to be put into the oven. When the mixture has been well beaten, stir in the soda, put the cake into a buttered mould, and bake it in a moderate oven for Ih hour. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, is. 3d. CAKE, Good Holiday. Ingredients.—Ihd, worth of Berwick's German baking-powder, 2 lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, \ lb. of lard, 1 lb. of cur- rants, ^ lb. of stoned and cut raisins, ^ lb. of mixed candied peel, A lb. of moist sugar, 3 eggs, '{ pint of cold milk. Mode. —Mix the baking-powder with the flour; then rub in tho butter and lard ; have ready the currants, washed, picked, and dried, the raisins stoned and cut into smiill pieces (not chopped), and tho peel cut into neat slices. Add these with the sugar to the flour, &c., and mix all tho dry ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir to them the milk, and with this liquid moisten the cako; boat it up CAKE-MOrLD. Cake, a nice useful well, that all may be very thoroughly i mixed; line a cake-tin with buttered paper, put in the cake, and bake it from 2\ to 2J hours in a good oven. To a«. certain when it is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, and if, on . withdrawing it, the knife looks clean, , and not sticky, the cako is done. To prevent it burning at the top, a piece of'. clean paper may be put over whilst the cake is soaking, or being thoroughly cooked in the middle. A steamer, such . as is used for steaming potatoes, makes < a very good cake-tin, if it be lined at tho ; bottom and sides with buttered paper. Time..—2^ to 2| hours. Average cost, 2s. Qd. Seasonable at any time. CAKE, Lnnclieon. Ingredients.—^ lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, I oz. of caraway seeds, | lb. of cuiTants, 6 oz. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of candied peel, 3 eggs, h pint of milk, 1 small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour until it is quite fine; add the caraway seeds, currants (which should be nicely washed, picked, and dried), sugar, and candied peel cut into thin slices; mix these well together, and moisten with the eggs, which should be well whisked. Boil the milk, and add to it, whilst boil- ing, the carbonate of soda, which must be well stirred into it, and, with the milk, mix the other ingredients. Butter a tin, pour the cake into it, and bake it in a moderate oven from 1 to 1^ hour. Tivie.—1 to Ih hour. Avo'oge cost, Is. 8d. Seasonable at any time. CAKE, a nice useful. Ingredients.—^ lb. of butter, 6 oz. of currauts, ^ lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of dried flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 oz. of candied peel. Mode.— Beat the butter to a cream ; wash, pick, and dry tho currants; whisk the eggs; blanch and chop tho almonds, and cut the peel into neat slices. When all these are ready, mix the dry ingredients to- gether ; then add the butter, milk, and eggs, and beat the mixture well for a few minutes. Put tho cake into a buttered • mould or tin, and bake it for rather ■ more than IJ hour. The cuirants and candied peel may be omitted, and a little lemon or almond flavouriafic «.'i»^titutedTEE DICTIONARY Off COOKERY. 57 Cake, a Pavini jr tliem ; made in this manner, the ike will be foimd very good. Time.— ;ather more than 1^ hour. Average cost, 9d. !AKE, a Pavini. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of round rice, ^ lb. of raisins stoned and it into small pieces, ^ lb. of currants, lb. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, lb. of sifted loaf sugar, ^ nutmeg rated, 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of vrbonate of soda. Mode.—Stone and it the raisins into small pieces; wash, ok, and dry the oiu-rants ; melt the itter to a cream, but without oiling it; lanch and chop the almonds, and grate e nutmeg. When all these ingredients "0 thus prepared, mix them well toge- ier; make the milk warm, stir in the )ila, and with this liquid make the hole into a paste. Butter a mould, Uher more than half fill it with the I )ugh, and bake the cake in a moderate n from 1.^ to 2 hours, or less time aid it be made into 2 cakes. Time.— .J to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 8d. tasonable at any time. AKE, a nice Plain. Tngredients.—1 lb. of flour, 1 teaspoon- il of Berwick's baking-powder, ^ lb. of jod dripping, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 oz. F caraway seeds, J lb. of currants. Mode. i;t the flour and the baking-powder 1 CO a basin ; stir these together; then lb in the dripping, add the sugar, cara- ay seeds, and currants ; whisk the eggs ith the milk, and beat all together very oroughly until the ingredients are .1 mixed. Butter a tin, put in the u<o, and bake it from 1^ to 2 hours, ct the dripping be quite clean before iing: to insure this, it is a good plan i|i> clarify it. Beef di-ipping is better ' an any other for cakes, &c., as mutton ipping frequently has a very unpleasant 1 mvour, which would be imparted to the ■eparation. Time.—lh to 2 hours. verage cost, Is. Seasonable at any time, ,«AKE, a nice Plain, for Children. tingredienls.—1 quartern of dough,;} lb. ^ moist sugar, ^ lb. of butter or good ■f dripping, \ pint of warm milk, h ttcd nutmeg or ^ oz. of caraway seeds' 'ode.--It you are not in the habit of Cake, Saucer, for Tea making bread at home, prociu-e the dough from the baker's, and as soon as it comes in put it into a basin near the fire ; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and let the dough remain a little while to rise. In the mean time, boat the butter to a cream, a'jd mako the milk warm; and when tho dough has risen, mix with it thoroughly all the abovo ingredients, and knead the cake well for a few minutes. Butter some cake-tins, half fill them, and stand them in a warm place, to allow the dough to rise again. When the tins are three parts full, put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from If to 2 hours. A few currants might be substituted for the caraway seeds when the flavour of the latter ia disUked. Time.—1^ to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 2d, Seasonable at any time. CAKE, Queen. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of butter, ^ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, ^ lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of carljonate of soda, essence of lemon, or almonds to taste. Mode.—Work the butter to a cream ; dredge in the flour, add the sugar and currants, and mix the ingre- dients well together. Whisk the eggs, mix them with the cream and flavoui-ing, and stir these to the flour ; add the car- bonate of soda, beat the paste well for 10 minutes, put it into small buttered pans, and bake the cake from ^ to h hour. Grated lemon-rind may be substituted for the lemon and almond flavouring, which will make the cakes equally nice. Time.—\ to h hour. Average cost, Is. M. Seasonable at any time. CAKE, Saucer, for Tea. Ingredients.—i lb. of flour, 1 lb. of lous-les-mois, \ lb. of pounded white sugar, \ lb. of butter, 2 eggs, 1 oz. of can- died orange or lemon-peel. Mode.—Mix the flour and ioiis-les-mois together ; add the sugar, tho candied peel cut into thin slices, the butter beaten to a cream, and the eggs well whisked. Beat the mixture for 10 minutes, put it into a buttered cake-tin or mould, or, if this is not ob- tainable, a soup-plato answers the pur- pose, lined with a piece of buttered paper. Bake tho cake in a moderate o\ck from 1 to 1;[ hour, and when cold, put it away in a covered canister. It will remain good some weeks, evon if it beTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 68 Cakes, Scrap cut into slices. Time.—1 to 1^ hour A veivffe cost, la. Seaaonahle at any time. CAKES, Scrap. Ingredients.—^Vos. of leaf, or the inside fat of a pig; 1^ lb. of flour, | lb. of moist sugar, h lb. of currants, 1 oz. of candied lemon-peel, ground allspice to taste, il/orfe.—Cut the leaf, or flead, as it is sometimes called, into small pieces ; put it into a large dish, which place in a quick oven ; be careful that it does not burn, and in a shoi-t time it will be re- duced to oil, with the small pieces of leaf floating on the surface ; and it is of these that the cakes should be made. Gather all the scraps together, put them into a basin with the flour, and rub them well together. Add the currants, sugar, candied peel, cut into thin slices, and the ground allspice. When all these ingredients are well mixed, moisten with sufficient cold water to make the whole into a nice paste; roll it out thin, cut it into shapes, and bake the cakes in a quick oven from 15 to 20 minutes. These are very economical and wholesome cakes for children, and the lard, melted at home, produced from the flead, is gene- rally better than that you purchase. To prevent the lard from burning, and to insure its being a good colour, it is better to melt it in a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water; by doing it in this manner, there will be no chance of its discolouring. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient to make 3 or 4 dozen cakes. Seasonable from September to March. CALF. Tho manner of cutting up a calf for tho English market is to divide the carcase into four quarters, with eleven ribs to each fore quarter ; which are again subdivided into joints, as exem- plified on the cut. Hind quarter:— 1. T\\o loin. 2. The chump, consisting of the i-ump and hock-bone. 8. The fillet. 4. The hock, or hind knuckle. Fo7'e quarter:— 5. The shoulder. 6. Tho neck. 7. The breast. 8. Tho fore knuckle. Calf's Feet, Baked or Stewed The several parts of a moderately-sized well-fed calf, about eight weeks old, are nearly of the following weights:—loin SIDE OF A CALP, SHOWIHa THE SBVEEAL SOXSia. and chump 18 lbs., fillet 12J lbs., hind knuckle 5^ lbs., shoulder 11" lbs., neck 11 lbs., breast 9 lbs., and fore knuckle 5 lbs.; making a total of 144 lbs. weight. The London mode of cutting tho car- case is considered better than that pur- sued in Edinburgh, as giving three I'oasting joints and one boiling in each quarter; besides the pieces being moi-e equally divided, as regards flesh, ami from the handsomer appearance they make on the table. CALF'S FEET, Baked or Stewed. Ingredients.—1 calf's foot, 1 pint of milk, Ipintof water, 1 blade of mace, the rind df lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Mod^^. Veil clean the foot, and either stew or bake it in tho milk-and-water with tho other ingredients from 3 to 4 hours. To enhance the flavour, an onion and a small quantity of celery may be »4dod,if59 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Calf's Feet, BoHed ipproved ; ^ a teacupful of cream, stirred n just before serving, is also a great mprovement to this dish. Time.—3 to t hours. Average cost, in full season. Id. each. Sufficient for 1 person. Sea- OJiable from March to October. JALF'S FEET, Boiled, and Parsley and Butter. Ingredients.—2 calf's feet, 2 slices of aeon, 2 oz. of butter, two tablespoon- ils of lemon-juice, salt and whole epper to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of iToury herbs, 4 cloves, 1 blade of mace, •ater, parsley, and butter. Mode.— Irocure 2 white calf s feet; bone them i far as the first joint, and put them ito warm water to soak for 2 hours, hen put the bacon, butter, lemon-juice, lion, herbs, spices, and seasoning into stewpan ; lay in the feet, and pour in ist sufficient water to cover the whole, tew gently for about three hours ; take it the feet, dish them, and cover with irsley and butter. The liquor they ere boiled in should be strained and put Sr in a clean basin for use: it will be land very good as an addition to gravies, Q. Time.—Rather more than 3 hours. verage cost, in full season, 9cl. each. efficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from Itarch to October. ■a-lf's-foot broth, UJngi-edieTds.—1 calPs foot, 3 pints of .1 ■ iter, 1 small lump of sugar, nutmeg to il ste, the yolk of 1 egg, a piece of butter I e size of a nut. Mode.—Stew the foot I the water with the lemon-peel very ', lin^iy, until the liquid is half wasted, jAnoving any scum, should it rise to the Jtface. Set it by in a basin until quite 'yBjld, then take off every particle of fat. ^'Ijarm up about ^ pint of the broth, ''iMding the butter, sugar, and a very jjHall quantity of grated nutmeg; take ^'•off the fire for a minute or two, then •Id the beaten yolk of the ogg; keep MTing over the fire until the mixture ^■llckens, but do not allow it to boil ' -lin after the egg is added, or it will rrlle, and the broth will be spoiled. ine.—To bo boiled until the liquid is hiced one half. Average cost, in full ^on, 9d. each. Sufficient to make 1,^ it of broth. Seasonable from March Octoberi Calf's-Feet JeUy CALF'S FEET, Fricasseed. Ingredients.—A setof calf's feet; for the batter, allow for each egg 1 tablespoonf ul of flour, 1 tablespoonful of bread-crumbs, hot lard, or clarified dripping, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—If the feet are pur- chased uncleaned, dip them into warm water repeatedly, and scrape off the hair, first one foot and then the other, until the skin looks perfectly clean, a saucepan of water being kept by the fire until they are finished. After washing and soaking in cold water, boil them in just sufficient water to cover them, until the bones come easily away. Then pick them out, and after straining the liquor into a clean vessel, put the meat into a pie-dish until the next day. Now cut it down in slices about § inch thick, lay on them a stiff batter made of egg, flour, and bread- crumbs in the above proportion; season with pepper and salt, and plunge them into a pan of boiling lard. Fry the slices a nice brown, dry them before the fire for a minute or two, dish them on a napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. This should be eaten with melted butter, mustard, and vinegar. Be careful to have the lard boiling to set the batter, or the pieces of feet will run about the pan. The liquor they were boiled in should be saved, and will be found useful for enriching gravies, making jellies, &c. Time.—About 3 hours to stew the feet, 10 or 15 minutes to fry them. Average cost, in full season, 9d. each. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—This dish can be highly recom- mended to delicate persons. CALF'S-FEET JELLY. Ingredients.—1 quart of calf's-feet stock, h lb. sugar, ^ pint of sherry, 1 glass of Brandy, the shells and whites of 5 eggs, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, ^ oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Prepare the stock as directed in recipe for stock, taking care to leave the sediment, and to remove all the fat from the surface. Put it into a saucepan cold, without clarifying it; add the remaining ingredients, and stir thom well together before the saucepan is placed on tho fire. Then simmer the mixture gontly for ^ hour, but do not stir it after it begins to loarm. Throw in a teacu])ful of cold water, boil for another 5 minutes, and keep the saucepan covered by the side of tb"? fire for about ^ hour.THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 60 Calf's-Feet Jelly but do not let it boil again. In sim- mering, the head or scum may bo care- fully removed as it rises ; but particular attention must bo given to the jelly, that it bo not stirred in the slightest degree after it is boated. The isinglass should be added when the jelly begins to boil: this assists to clear it, and makes it firmer for turning out. Wring out a jelly-bag in hot water; fasten it on to a stand, or the back of a chair ; place it near the fire with a basin underneath it, and run the jelly through it. Should it not be perfectly clear the first time, repeat the process until the desired brilliancy is obtained. Soak the moulds JBLLT-MOTJLD. in water, drain them for half a second, pour in the jelly, and put it in a cool place to set. If ice is at hand, surround the moulds with it, and the jelly will set sooner, and be firmer when turned out. In summer it is necessary to havo ice in which to put the moulds, or the cook will be, very likely, disappointed, by her jellies being in too liquid a state to turn out properly, unless a great deal of isin- glass is used. Wlien wanted for table, dip tho moulds in hot water for a minute, wipe tho outside with a cloth, lay a dish on the top of the mould, turn it quickly over, and tho jelly should slip out easily. It is sometimes served broken into square lumps, and piled high in glasses. Earth- enware moulds aro preferable to those of pewter or tin for rod jellies, tho colour and transparency ot the composition being often spoiled by using the latter. To make this jelly more economically, raisin wine may bo substituted for tho sherry and brandy, and tho stock made from cow-heels, instead of calf's feet. j'iine,—20 minntos to simmer tho jolly, J '. our to stand covered. Average cost, Calf's Head, Boiled reckoning the feet at 6d. each, 5t. Gd. Sujficient to fill two l^-pint mouljs. Seasonable at any time. Note.—As lemon-juice, unless care- fully strained, is liable to make the jelly muddy, see that it is clear before it is added to the other ingredients. Omit the brandy when the flavour is objected to. CALF'S HEAD h la Maltre d'Hotel. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredknis. —rhe remains of a cold calf's head, rather more than h pint of maltra d'h6tel sauce. Mode.—Make the sauce by the given recipe, and have it sufii- ciently thick that it may nicely cover the meat; remove the bones from the head, and cut the meat into neat slices. When the sauce is ready, lay in the meat; gradually warm it through, and, after it boils up, let it simmer very gently for 5 minutes, and serve. Time. —Rather more than 1^ hour. Average i cost, exclusive of the meat, Is. 2d. Sea- ■ sondble from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, Boiled (with the Skin on). Ingredients. — Calf's head, boiling water, bread crumbs, 1 large bunch of : parsley, butter, white pepper and salt to ■ taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter,. 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 2 or 3*! grains of cayenne. Mode.—Put the head ; into boiling water, and let it remain by the side of the fire ior 3 or 4 minutes; take it out, hold it by the car, and with tho back of a knife, scrape ofi" the hair (should it not come off easily, dip the head again into boiling water). When perfectly clean, take the eyes out, cut off the ears, and remove the brain, which soak for an hour in warm water. Put the head into hot water to soak for a few minutes, to make it look white, and then havo ready a stew]>an, into which lay tho head; cover it with cold water, and bring it gradually to boil. Remove tho scum, and add little salt, which assists to throw it u] Simmer it very gently from 2.^ to 3 hoi and when nearly done, boil the br; for \ hour; skin and chop them, n< too finely, and add a tablespoonful ol minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Season with pepper and salt, and stir tho brains, parsley, &c., into j about 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; » add tho lemon-juice and cayenne, ana t J61 THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKEET. Calf's Head, Boiled keep these hot by the side of the fire. Take up the head, cut out the tongue, 5kin it, cut it on a small dish with the brains rojnd it; sprinkle over the head T. few bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley ; brown these before the fire, and serve with a tureen of parsley md butter, and either boiled bacon, aam, or pickled pork as an accompani- nent. Time.—2^ to 3 hours. Average ■<>sl, according to the season, from 3s. to 's. 6d. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable from March to October. HALF'S HEAD, Boiled (without the Skin). Ingredients.—Calf s head, water, a little alt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper nd salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of emon-juice. Mode.—After the head as been thoroughly cleaned, and the rains removed, soak it in warm water o blanch it. Lay the brains also into /arm water to soak, and let them remain CALj'a HEAD. Dr about an hour. Put the head into a tewpan, with sufficient cold water to bver it, and, when it boils, add a little ilt; take off every particle of scum as rises, and boil the head until perfectly nder. Boil the brains, chop them, and ix with them melted butter, minced rsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice in e above proportion. Take up the head, ! HALP A CALP'S DEAD. 'n the tongue, and put it on a small h with the brains round it. Have "y some parsley and butter, smother e head with it, and the remaindersend to ' le in a tureen. Bacon, ham, pickled irk, or a pig's cheek, are indispensable Lh calfs head. The brains are somo- oaes chopped with hard-boiled eggs, and Calf's Head, Fricasseed mixed with a little Bechamel or white sauce. Time.—From 1^ to 2\ hours. Average cost, according to the season, from 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 per- sons. Seasonable from March to October. Hote.—The liquor in which the head was boiled should be saved : it makes excellent soup, and wUl be found a nice addition to gravies, &c. Half a calfs head is as frequently served as a whole one, it being a more convenient-sized joint for a small family. It is cooked in the same manner, and served with the same sauces, as in the preceding recipe. CALF'S HEAD, CoUared. Ingredients.—A calfs head, 4 table- spoonfuls of minced jDarsley, 4 blades of pounded mace, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, white pepper to taste, a few thick slices of ham, the yolks of 6 eggs boiled hard. J/ocfe.—Scald the head for a few minutes ; take it out of the water, and with a blunt knife scrape off all the hair. Clean it nicely, divide the head and remove the brains. Boil it tender enough to take out the bones, which will be in about 2 hours. When the head is boned, flatten it on the table, sprinkle over it a thick layer of parsley, then a layer of ham, and then the yolks of the eggs cut into thin rings and put a season- ing of pounded mace, nutmeg, and white pepper between each layer; roll the head up in a cloth, and tie it up as tightly as possible. Boil it for 4 hours, and when it is taken out of the pot, place a heavy weight on the top, the same as for other collai-ed meats. Let it remain till cold ; then remove the cloth and binding, and it will be ready to serve. Time. —Altogether, 6 hours. Averatje cost, 5s. to 7s. each. Seasonable from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, Fricasseed (an Entree). [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients.— The _ remains of a boiled calfs head, 1^ pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 onion minced, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and white pepper to taste, thickening of butter and flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, forcemeat balls. Mode.—B,omoro all the bones from the head, and cut the meat into nice square pieces. Put 1;^ pint of the liquor it was boiled in into a saucepan, with mace, onions, herbs, and seasoningTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 63 Calf's Head, Hashed in the above proportion: let this simmer pently for hour, then strain it and put In the meat. When quite hot through, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and, just before dishing the fricassee, put in the beaten yolks of eggs, and lemon-juice; but be particular, after these two latter ingredients are added, that the sauce does not boil, or it •will curdle. Garnish with forcemeat balls and cui-Ied slices of broiled bacon. To insure the sauce being smooth, it is a good plan to dish the meat first, and then to add the eggs to the gravy: when these are set, the sauce may be poured over the meat. Twie.—Altogether, 1| hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. CALF'S HEAD, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— The remains of a cold boiled calf's head, 1 quart of the liquor in which it was boiled, a faggot of savoury herbs, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a strip of lemon-peel, 2 blades of pounded mace, salt and white pepper to taste, a very little cayenne, rather more than 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Cut the meat into neat slices, and put the bones and ti-immings into a stewpan with the above proportion of liquor that the head was boiled in. Add a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, 1 caiTot, a strip of lemon-peel, and 2 blades of pounded mace, and let these boil for 1 hour, or until the gravy is reduced nearly half. Strain it into a clean stewpan, thicken it with a little butter and flour, and add a flavouring of sherry, lemon-juice, and ketchup, in the above proportion; season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; put in the meat, let it gradxiaily warm through, but not boil more than two or three minutes. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and pieces of bacon rolled and toasted, placed alternately, and send it to table very hot. Time.—Altogether \\ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the remains of the head, 6d. Seasonable from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, Moulded. [Cold Meat Cookert.1 Ingredients.— Tlie remains of a calf's head, some thin slices of ham or bacon, C or 8 eggs boiled hard, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, pepper, Calf's Liver mixed spice, and parsley, .J pint of good white gravy. Mode.~Cut the head "into thin slices. Butter a tin mould, cut the yolks of eggs in half, and put somo of them round the tin ; sprinkle some of the parsley, spico, &c., over it; then put in the head and the bacon in layers, adding occasionally more eggs and spice till the whole of the head is used. Pour in the gravy, cover the top with a thin paste of flour and water, and bake § of an hour. Take off the paste, and, when cold, turn it out. Ttme.—From ^ to 1 hour to bake the preparation. Season- able from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, to Carve. This is not altogether the most easy, looking dish to cut when it is put before I a carver for the first time; there is not much real difficulty in the operation, how- j ever, when the head has been attentively ' examined, and, after the manner of a phrenologist, you get to know its bumps, good and bad. In the first place, in- serting the knife quite down to the bone, cut sUces in the di- rection of the line 1 to 2; with' each of these should be helped a piece of what is sweetbread, cut in the direction of fn 3 to 4. The eye, and the flesh rouii!, aro favourite morsels with many, aud should be given to those at the table who are known to be the greatest connoisseurs. The jawbone being removed, there will then be found some nice lean ; and the palate, which is reckoned by some a tit- bit, lies under the head. On a separate dish there is always served the tong^ue and brains, and each guest should be asked to take some of these. CALF'S LIVER aux Fines HerbeS | and Sauce Piquante. Ingredients.—A calf's liver, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, including par- sley ; when liked, 2 minced shalots; 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-jnico, pepper and salt to tiste, \ pint water. Mode.—Procure a calf's liver as white as possible, and cut it into slices of a good and equal shape. Dip them in flour, and fry thorn of a good colour in a htd9 calf's nciD, called the thr. * iTHE DICTIOiTAEY OF COOltERt. &3 Calf's Liver and Bacon utter. When they are done, put them la dish, which keep hot before the fii-e. ^ince the herbs very fine, put them in le frying-pan with a little more butter ; id the remaining ingredients, simmer mtly until the herbs ai*e done, and pour _'er the liver. Time.—According to the dckness of the slices, from 5 to 10 inutes. Avei-affe cost, lOd.-per Ih. Suf- rient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from arch to October. AiF'S LIVER and BACON Ingredients.—2 or 3 lbs. of liver, bacon, pper and salt to taste, a small piece butter, flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon- ice, \ pint of water. Mode.—Cut the rer in thin slices, and cut as many ces of bacon as there are of liver; fry 6 bacon first, and put that on a hot sh before the fire. Fry the liver in the which comes from the bacon, after asoning it with pepper and salt and edging over it a very little flour. Turn e liver occasionally to prevent its burn- and when done, lay it round the ih with a piece of bacon between each, ur away the bacon fat, put in a small 3ce of butter, dredge in a little flour, d the lemon-juice and water, give one lil, and pour it in the middle of the 3h. It may be garnished with slices of lemon, or forcemeat balls. Time.— icording to the thickness of the slices, im 5 to 10 minutes. Average cost, lOd. r lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. asonable from March to October. !ILF'3 LIVEE, Larded and poasted (an Entree). \Ingredients.—A. calf's liver, vinegar, (onion, 3 or 4 sprigs of parsley and i^'me, salt and pepper to taste, 1 bay- if, lardoons, brown gravy. Mode.— ike a fine white liver, and lard it the me as a f ricandeau; put it into vinegar Bih an onion cut in slices, parsley, vrae, bay-leaf, and seasoning in the jjve proportion. Let it remain in this ikle for 24 hours, then roast and baste i'requently with the vinegar, &c.; glaze , j serve under it a good brown gravy, •jlfcauce piquante, and send it to table 'l^-hot. yme.—Rather more than 1 Average cost, IM. per lb. Suf- ' l for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from ';h to October. Calf's liver stuffed with force- b (*ee FOEOEMEAT), to which has Cannelons, or Fried Puffs been added a little fat bacon, will be found a very savoury dish. It should be larded or wrapped in buttered paper, and roasted befoi-e a clear fire. Brown gravy and currant jelly should be served with it. CAMP VIlSrEGAR. Ingredients.—1 head of garlic, | oz. cayenne, 2 teaspooufuls of soy, 2 ditto walnut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar, cochi- neal to coloui". Mode.—Slice the garlic, and put it, with all the above ingredients, into a clean bottle. Let it stand to infuse for a month, when strain it off quite clear, and it will be fit for use. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, to exclude the air. Average cost for this quantity, Qd. CANARY PUDDING (very good). Ingredients.—The weight of 3 eggs in sugar and butter, the weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs. Mode. —Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil; stir to this the sugar and finely-minced lemon-peel, and gradually dredge in the flour, keep- ing the mixtiu-e well stirred ; whisk the eggs ; add these to the pudding ; beat all the ingredients until thoroughly blended, and put them into a buttered mould or basin; boU for 2 hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Time.—2 hours. Ave- rage cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Seasonable at any time. CANNELONS, or Fried Puffs (Sweet Entremets). Ingredients.—^Ib. of puff-paste ; apri- cot, or any kind of preserve that may be preferred; hot lard, il/oc^e.—Cannelons, which are made of puff-paste rolled very thin, with jam inclosed, and cut out in long narrow rolls or puffs, make a very pretty and elegant dish. Make some good puff- paste by the recipe given; roll it out very thin, and cut it into pieces of an equal size, about 2 inches wide and 8 inches long; place upon each piece a spoonful of jam, wet the edges with the white of egg, and fold the paste over twice / slightly press the edges together, that the jam may not escape in the fry- ing ; and when all are prepared, fry them in boiling lard until of a nice brown, letting them remain by the side of the fire after they aro coloured, that the paste may be thoroughly dono. DrainTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Caper Sauce, for Pish them boforo the fire, dish on a d'oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and serve. Those cannelous are very delicious made with fresh instead of preserved fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, or currants: it should be laid in the paste, plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over, and folded and fried in the same manner as stated above. Time.—About 10 minutes. Averar/e cost, Is. Sufficient. —\ lb. of paste for a moderate-sized dish of cannelons. Seasonable, with jam, at any time, CAPER SAUCE, for Fish, Ingredients.—h pint of melted butter, 3 dessertspoonfuls of capers, 1 dessert- spoonful of their liquor, a small piece of glaze, if at hand (this may be dispensed with), I teaspoonful of salt, ditto of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of anchovy es- sence. Mode.—Cut the capers across once or twice, but do not chop them fine ; putthemin a saucepan with ^ pint of good melted butter, and add all the other in- gredients. Keep stirring the whole until it just simmers, when it is ready to sei-ve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, 5d. Suffi- cient to serve with a skate, or 2 or 3 slices of salmon, CAPER SAUCE, for Boiled Mut- ton. Ingredients.—| pint of melted butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of capers or nasturtiums, 1 tablespoonful of then- liquor. Mode.— Chop the capers twice or thrice, and add them, with their liquor, to h pint of melted butter, made very smoothly with milk; keep stirring well ; let the sauce just simmer, and serve in a tureen. Pickled nasturtium-pods are fine-flavoured, and by many are eaten in preference to capers. They make an excellent sauco. 2'lme.—2 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, 8d. Sufficient to Borvo with a leg of mutton, CAPER SAUCE, a Substitute for. Inqredients.—h pint of melted butter, tJiblespoonfuls of cut parsley, h tea- spoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of ymo- c-ar. Mode.—BoW the jiarsley slowly to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine. Add it to h pint of Bmoothly ma<lo melted butter, with salt and vinegar in the above proportions. Carp, Stewed Boil up and servo. Time.—2 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, CAPSICUMS, Pickled. Ingredients.—Vinegar,,] oz. of pounded mace, and ^ oz. of grated nutmeg, to each quart; brine. Mode.—Gather the pods with the stalks on, before they turn red; slit them down the side with a small-pointed knife, and remove the seeds only ; put them in a strong brine for 3 days, changing it every morning; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, with another one over them, until they are perfectly free from moisture. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with mace and nutmeg in the above propor- tions; put the pods in a jar, pour over the vinegar when cold, and exclude them from the air by means of a wet bladder tied over, CARP, Baked, Ingredients.—1 caip, forcemeat, bread cnimbs, 1 oz. butter, ^ pint of stfiik (see Stock), | pint of port wine, 6 anchovies, 2 onions" sliced, 1 bay-leaf, a faggot of sweet herbs, flour to thicken, the juico of 1 lemon ; cayenne and salt to taste ; h teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode. —Stuff the carp with a delicate force- meat, after thoroughly cleansing it, and sew it up, to prevent the stuffing from falling out. Rub it over with an ege, and sprinkle it with bread crumbs, lay it in a deep earthen dish, and drop the butter, oiled, over the bread crumbs. Add the stock, onions, bay-leaf, herbs, wine, and anchovies, and bake for 1 hour. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, molt it, and dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up ; put in the strained liquor from the carp, stir frequently, and when it has boiled, add the lemon-juice .and season- ing. Serve the carp on a dish garnished with parsloj'and cut lemon, and the sauca in a boat. Time.—\\ hour. Arcragt cost. Seldom bought. Scasonallc from March to October, Sufficient for 1 or 7 persons, CARP, Stowed. Ingredients. — 1 oarp, salt, stock, 2 onions, 6 cloves, VI i)ep);orcorns, 1 blade of mace, j pint of port wine, the juice of A lemon, cayenne and salt to taste, a fixggot of savoury lici bs. -Scale65 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Carrot J am tho fish, clean it nicely, and, if very I large, divide it; lay it in tbe stewpan, after having rubbed a little salt on it, and j-int in suiiicient stock to cover it; add tho herbs, onions and spices, and stow Ipently for 1 hour, or rather ir.oro, should lit bo very large. Dish up the fish with If^rcat cai'e, strain the licjuor, and add to lit the port wine, lemon-juice, and ca- lyonne ; give one boil, pour it over the liish, and serve. Time, 1^ hour. Aver- Kiffe cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable llrom March to October. Sufficient for 1 lor 2 persons. Note. —This fish can be boiled plain, and served with parsley and butter. Chub and Char may be cooked in the same aanner as the above, as also Dace and loach, i»3ABR0T JAM, to Imitate Apricot Preserve. Ingredients.—Carrots; to every lb. of barrot pulp allow 1 lb. of poiuided sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the strained luice of 2, 6 chopped bitter almonds, 2 lablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Select f'oung carrots; wash and scrape them blean, cut them into round pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient vater to cover them, and let them sim- mer, until perfectly soft; then beat them Ihrough a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and \o every lb. allow the above ingredients. ut tho pulp into a preserving-pan with Iho sugar, and let this boil for 5 minutes, Itirring and skimming all tho time. When |old, add the lemon-rind and juice, al- londs and brandy ; mix these well with [he jam ; then put it into pots, which pust be well covered and kept in a dry llaco. The brandy may be omitted, but foe preserve will then not keep: with liobr.').ndy it will remain good for months. Time.—About »^ hour to boil the carrots ; J miinites to simmer the pulp. A verar/e hst, Is. 2d. for 1 lb. of pulp, with the Rhcr ingredients in proportion. Suffi- fenl to fill 3 pots. Scasonnl/c from July December. «'*.\R:10T PUDDIKO, Baked or Boiled. I.ifli-cd!cnJn.~\ lb. of bread cninib.=!, 4 7.. suet, j lb. of stoned r.iisius, ;J lb. of .wot, \ lb. of curr.ants, 3 oz. of sugar, i-.vs, milk, }y nntmrg. J/o,/.'. —TjMl lio c.arr.<t.-5, uiuil tc.n lcr enough lo tms'i I) a pu;j«; rai l the rcT.ainirg i.i,vrp- Carrot3, Boiled dients, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter. If to be boiled, put the mixture into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 2}, hours: if to bo baked, put it into a pie-dish, and bake for nearly an hour; turn it out of tiio dish, strew sifted sugar over it, and servo. Time.—2^ hours to boil; I bour to bake. A veraye cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to March. CABROT SOUP. Ingredients. — 4 quarts of liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, a few beef-bones, G large carrots, 2 lai'go onions, 1 turnip ; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste; cayenne. Alode.—Put the liquor, bones, onions, turnip, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan, and simmer for 3 hours. Scrape and cut the carrots thin, strain the sonp on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth; then boil the pulp with the soup, which should be of the consistency of pea-soup. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and make this soup the day before it is wanted. Time.—4.^ hours. Average cost, per quart, l^d. Seasonable from October to March. Sufficient for 8 persons. CARROT SOUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne, 2 quarts of stock or gravy soup. J/ot^c —Scrape and cut out all specks from tho carrots, wash, and wipe them dry, and then reduce them into quarter* inch slices. Put the butter into a largo stewpan, and when it is melted, add 2 lbs. of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without browning. Add to them the soup, and allow them to simmer till tender,—.say for nearly an hour. Press them through a strainer with the soup, and add salt and caycnnt* if required. Boil tho whole gently for 5 mituitcs, skim well, and serve as hot as possible. Time ]j hour. Average cost, per quart. Is. Id. CARROTS, Boiled. Tngrcdtents.—To each }j g\llon of w.ator, allow one licapt^d tablos|M)onrnl of salt; carrots. Mode.—Cut o'V fni- gro.-u ♦"PNTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. I 6S Carrots, to Dress Wish and scrapo tho carrots, and should there bo any black specks, remove them. If very large, cut them in halves, divide them lengthwise into four pieces, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion; let them boil until tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork into them: dish, and serve vei-y hot. This vegetable is an indispensable accompaniment to boiled beef. When thus served, it is usually boiled with the beef; a few carrots are placed round the dish as a garnish, and the remainder sent to table in a vege- table-dish. Young carrots do not require nearly so much boiling, nor should they be divided: these make a nice addition to stewed veal, &c. Time.—Large carrots, 1| to 2;^ hoiu-s; young ones, about § hour. Average cost, 6cL to 8d. per bunch of 18. diffident.—4 large carrots for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable. — Young carrots from April to July, old ones at any time. CAHROTS, to dress, in the German way. Ingredients.—8 large carrots, 3 oz. of butter, salt to taste, a very little grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 dessertspoonful of minced onion, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Mode.—Wash and scrape the carrots, and cut them into rings of about \ inch in thickness. Put tho bxittcr into a stew- pan ; when it is melted, lay in the car- rots, with salt, nutmeg, parsley, and onion in the above proportions. Toss the stewpan over the fire for a few minutes, and when the carrots are well saturated with tho butter, pour in the stock, and simmer gently until they are nearly tender. Then put into another stewpan a small piece of butter; dredge in about a tablespoonful of flour; stir this over tho fire, and when of a nice brown colour, add the liquor that the carrots have been boiling in; let this just boil up, pour it over the carrots in tho other stewpan, and let them finish simmering until quite tender. Serve Tory hot. This vegetable, dressed as above, is a favourite accompaniment to roast pork, sausages, &c., &c. Time.— About ^ hour. Average cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch of 18. Siijjicient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable. — Young carrots ifrom April to July, old ones at any time. Cauliflowers ii la Sauce Blanche OABROTS, SUced (Entremets, or • to be served with the Second Course, as a Side-Dish). Ingredients.—5 or 6 large carrots, a large lump of sugar, 1 pint of weak stock, 3 oz. of fresh butter, salt to taste. Modt. —Scrape and wash the carrots, cut them into slices of an equal size, and boil them in salt and water until half done; drain them well, put them into a stewpan with the sugar and stock, and let them boil over a brisk fire. When reduced to a> glaze, add the fresh butter and a season- ing of salt; shake the stewpan about well, and when the butter is well mixed with the carrots, serve. There should be no sauce in the dish when it comes to table, but it should all adhere to the carrots. Time. — Altogether, f hour. Average cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch of 18. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to July, old ones at. any time. CARROTS, Stewed. Ingredients.—7 or 8 large carrots, 11 teacupful of broth, pepper and sait to taste, i teacupful of cream, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Scrape the carrots nicely ; half-boil, and slice them into a stewpan; add the broth, pepper and salt, and cream ; simmer till tender, and be careful the carrots are not broken. A few minutes before serving, mix a • little flour with about 1 oz. of butter; thicken the gravy with this ; let it just I boil up, and serve. Tiine.—About J hour to boil the carrots, about 20 minutes to cook them after they are sliced. A re- rage cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch of 18. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable. —Young carrots from April to July, old i ones at any time. OATJLIPIiOWERS h la SAUCE;: : BLANCHE (Entremets, or Side*.' i dish, to be served withthe Second; i Course). Ingredients,—3 cauliflowers, ^ pint d' ( sauce blanche, or French meltod butter|- 3 oz. of butter, salt and water. Mode.-" Cleanse the cauliflowers as in the su^' ceeding recipe, and cut the stalks ofli flat at the bottom ; boil them until tenfc dcr in salt and water, to which the abovi t proportion of butter has been added, ant tji bo careful to take them up tho monieia! ^^ they are done, or they will break, an^'67 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Cauliflowers, Boiled the appearance of the dish will be spoiled. Drain them well, and dish them in the shape of a large cauliflower. Have ready ^ pint of sauce made by recipe, pour it over the flowers, and serve hot and quickly. Time.—Small cauliflowers, 12 to 15 minutes ; large ones, 20 to 25 mi- nutes, after the water boils, Ave)'age cost, large cauliflowers, in full season, 6d. each. Sujficieiit, 1 large cauliflower for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of Sep- tember. CAULIFLOWEBS, Boiled. Ingredients.—To each ^ gallon of wa- ter allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Choose cauliflowers that are'close and white ; trim off the decayed outside leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at the bottom. Open the flower a little in places to remove the insects, which are generally found about the stalk, and let the cauliflowers lie in salt and water for an hour previous to dressing them. BOILED CAUMFLOWBB. withtheirhcads downwards: this will effectually draw out all the ver- min. Then put them into fast-boiling water, with the addition of salt in the above proportion, and let them boil briskly over a good tire, keeping the saucepan uncovered, and the water well. skimmed. When the cauliflowera are tender, take them up with a slice ; let them drain, and, if largo enough, place them upright in the dish. Serve with plain melted butter, a little of which may be poured over the flower. Time. —Small cauliflower 12 to 15 minutes' large one 20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost, for large cau- liflowers, Qd. each. Svfficient. — Allow 1 laige cauliflower for 3 persons. Sea- sonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. CAULIFLOWERS, with Parmesan Cheese (Entremets, or Side-dish, to be served with the Second Course). Ingredients.—2 or 3cauliflowers, rather more than h pint of white sauce, 2 table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese 2oz of fresh butter^ 3 tablespoonfuls of broad Celery- crumbs. Mode.—Cleanse and boil the cau- liflowers by the preceding recipe, drain them, and dish them with the flowers standing upright. Have ready the above proportion of white sauce; pour sufficient of it over the cauliflowers just to cover the top ; sprinkle over this some rasped Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, and drop on these the butter, which should be melted, but not oiled. Brown with a salamander, or before the fii-e, and pour round, but not over, the flowers the re- mainder of the sauce, with which should be mixed a small quantity of grated Parmesan cheese. Time.—Altogether, h hour. Average cost, for large cauli- flowers, Qd. each. Sufficient.—3 small cauliflowers for 1 dish. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. CAYENNE CHEESES. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, h lb. of flom-, ^ lb. of grated cheese, J teaspoon- ful of cayenne, ^ teaspoonful of salt ; water. Mode.—Rub the butter in the flour; add the grated cheese, cayenne, and salt, and mix these ingredients well together. Moisten with sufficient water to make the whole into a paste ) roll out, and cut into fingers about 4 inches in length. Bake them in a moderate oven a very light colour, and sei-ve very hot. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is. M. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time, CAYETJ-NE VINE GAE, or Essence of Cayenne. Ingredients.—\ oz, of cayennq, pepper, ^ pint of strong spirit, or 1 pint of vine- gar. Mode.—Put the vinegar, or spirit, into a bottle, with the above proportion of cayenne, and let it steep for a month, when strain off and bottle for use. This is excellent seasoning for soups or sauces, but must be used very sparingly. CELEBY. With a good heart, and nicely blanched, this vegetable is generally eaten raw, and is usually served with the cheese. Let the roots be washed free from dii-t, all the decayed and outside leaves being cut off, preserving as much of the stalk as possible, and all specks or blemishes being carefully removed. Should the celery be jAj'go, divide it leng-thwiseTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 68 Celery Sauco CELEDT, IN GI.AB3. Into quarters, and place it, root down- wards, in a celery-glass, which should bo ratlicr more than half Qlled with water. The top leaves may bo curled, by shred- ding them in nar- row strips with the point of a clean skewer, at a distance of about 4 inches from the top. Average cost, 2d. per head. Svfft- cient. — Allow 2 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- tonal)h from October to April. Note.—This vegetable is exceedingly useful for flavouring soups, sauces, &c., and makes a very nice addition to winter salad. CELERY SAUCE, for Boiled Tur- key, Poultry, &c. Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 pint of white stock, 2 blades of mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs; thickening of butter and flour, or arrowroot, ^ pint of cream, lemon-juice. Mode. —^oil the celery in salt and water until tender, and cut it into pieces 2 inches long. Put the stock into a stewpan with the mace and herbs, and let it simmer for h hour to extract their flavour. Then strain the liquor, add the celery, and a thickening of butter kneaded with flour, or, what is still better, with arrowroot; just before Kcrving, put in the cream, boil it up, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. If neces- sary, add a seasoning of salt and white )icppei\ Time.—25 minutes to boil the celery. Average cost, Is. Zd. Sufficient, ihis quantity for a boiled turkey. Note.—This sauce may be made brown by using gravy instead of white stock, and flavouring it with mushroom ketchup or Ilarvey's sauce. CELERY SAUCE (a more simple Recipe), Ingredient.^ —4 heads of celery, i\ pint of melted butter made with milk, IWade of pounded mace ; salt and white pepper to taste. Mode.—Wash the celery, boil It in Bali and water till tender, and cut Celery, Stewed it into pieces 2 inches long ; make A pint melto'd butter by reci]jc ; put iu the celery, pounded rnacc, and teasoning; Bimrncr for 3 minutes, when the sauco will bo ready to servo. Time.—2^j mi- nutes to boil the celery. Average cost, M. Sufficient, this quartity for a boiled fowl. CELERY SOUP, Ingredients.—^ heads of celery, 1 tea- Eiioonf ul of salt, nutmeg to taste, 1 lump of sugar, ^ jiint of strong stock, a pint of cream, and 2 quarts of boiling water. Mode.—Cut the celery into small pieces ; throw it into thev/ater, seasoned with the nutmeg, salt, and sugar. Boil it till suf- ficiently tender; pass it through a sieve, add the stock, and simmer it for half an hour. Now put in the cream, bring it to the boiling-point, and servo immediately. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seoj-onalle from September to March. Svfficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup can be made brown instead of white, by omittine the eream, and colouring it a little. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm of tho seed, finely pounded, will give a flavour to the soup, if put in a quarter of an hour before it is done. A little of the essence of celery will answer tho same piuposo, CELERY, Stewed, a la Creme, Ingredients.—6 heads of celery; to eack .4 gallon of water allow 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt, 1 blade of pounded mace, ^ pint of cream. Mode.—Wash tho celery thoroughly ; trim, and boil it in salt and water until tender. Put the cream and pounded mace into a stewjOTU, shake it over tho fire until the cream thickens, dish tho celerj', jjour over tho sauco, and sen'e. 7'ime.—Large heads of celery, 25 minutes ; small ones, 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Scasonalh from October to April, CELERY, Stewed (with White Sauce), Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 oz. of butter ; to each half gallon of water allow 1 heaped teaspoonful of salt, A pint of white sauco (see White Sauce). Mode. —Have ready sufficient boiling water just to cover the celerj', with salt and butter in tho above proportion. Wash thdTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 69 Celery, Stewed celery well, cut off the decayed outside leaves, trim away the gi-een tops, and shape the root into a point; put it into the boiling water, let it boil rapidly until tender, then take it out, drain well, place it upon a dish, and pour over it about h pint of white sauce, made by re- cipe. It may also be plainly boiled as above, placed'on toast, and melted but- ter poured over, the same as asparagus is dished. Time.—'La.rge heads of celery 25 minutes, small ones 15 to '20 minutes, after the water boils. Aremc/e cost, 2d. per head. Sv.ficlent for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. CELERY, Stewed (with "White Sauce). Iiujredieiils.—G heads of celery, ^ pint of white stock or weak broth, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, thickening of butter and flour, 1 blade of pounded mace, a vcn/ Utile grated nutmeg; pepper and salt to taste. Mode—Wash the celery, Ktrip off the outer leaves, and cut it into lengths of about 4 inches. Put these into a saucepan, with tbe broth, and stew till tender, which will bo in from 20 to 25 minutes ; then add the remaining ingredients, simmer altogether for 4 or 5 minutes, pour into a dish, and servo. It may be garnished with sippets of toasted bread. TiHie.—Altogether, ^ hour. Ave- rage cost, 2d. per head. S'nfficie7il for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonulle from October to April. Note. — By cutting the celery into smaller pieces, by stowing it a little longer, and, when done, by pressing it through a sieve, the above stew may be converted into a Puree of Celery. CELERY VIjSTEQAB. Inrjredicnts.—\ oa. of celery-seed, 1 pint of vinegar. Jl/oie.—Crush the seed by pounding it in a mortar; boil the vinegar, and when cold, pour it to tho seed ; let it infuso for a fortnight, when strain and bottle off for use. This is frcqticntly used in salads. CHAMPAGNE-CUP. Ingredients.—1 quart bottle of cham- pagne, 2 bottles of soda-water, 1 llqueur- gUiss of br.andy or Cura(;oa, 2 tablespoon- fuls of powdered sugar, 1 lb. of pounded ice, a sprifj of green borage. Mode.— Put aK tho ingredients into a silver cup ; CHAHLOTTE-AUX-POMMES. Charlotte-aux-Pommes stir them together, and serve the same as claret-cup. Should the nhowQ proper- tion of sugar not be found sufficient to suit some tastes, increase the quantity. When borage is not easily obtainable, substitute for it a few slices of cucumber- rind. Seasonable.—'&w\tn\Ao for pic-nics, balls, weddings, and other festive occa- sions. CHARLOTTE-AUX-rOMMES. Ingredients.— A few slices of rather stale bread h inch thick, clarified butter, apple marmalade, with about 2 dozen apples, ^ glass of sherry. Mode.—Cut a slice of bread the same shape as the bot- tom of a plain round mould, which has been well buttered, and a few strips the height of the-mould, and about 1^ inch wide; dip tho bread in cla- rifled butter (or spread it with cold but- ter, if not wanted quite so rich); place the round piece at the bottom of the mould, and set the narrow strips up the sides of it, overlapping each other a little, that no juice from the apples may ©scape, and that they may hold firmly to tho mould. Brush the interior over with the white of egg (this will assist to make tho case firmer) ; fill it with tho apple marmalade, with the addition of a little sherry, and cover them with a round piece of bread, also brushed over with egg, the same as tho bottom ; slightly press the bread down to make it adhere to the other pieces ; put a plate on the top, and bako the charlotte in a brisk oven, of a light colour. Turn it out on the dish, strew sifted sugar over tho top, and pour round it a little melted aj^ricot jam. Time.— 40 to 50 minutes. A vcrage cost. Is. Od. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. SeasonubU from July to March. CHARLOTTE - AUX - POMMES, an easy method of making. Ingredients.—h lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of powdered stigjr, h tea- spoonful of baking-powder, 1 egg, milk, 1 glass of raisin-wirio, apple marmalade, ;J pint of cream, 2 dessert spoonfuls of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfiils of lemon*THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 70 Charlotte, Rusaa jiiico. Mode.—Make a cake with the flour, nutter, sugar, and baking-powder; mois- ton with the egg and sufficient milk to make it the proper consistency, and bake it in a round tin. When cold, scoop out the middle, leaving a good thickness all round tlie sides, to prevent them break- ing ; take some of the scooped-out pieces, which should be trimmed into neat slices; lay them in the cake, and pour over sufficient raisin-wine, with the addition of a little brandy, if approved, to soak them well. Have ready some apple marmalade, made by recipe ; place a layer of this over the soaked cake, then a layer of cake and a layer of apples; whip the cream to a froth, mixing with it the sugar and lemon-juice ; pile it on the top of the charlotte, and garnish it with pieces of clear apple jelly. This dish is served cold, but may be eaten hot by omitting the cream, and merely gar- nishing the top with bright jelly just before it is sent to table. Time.—1 hour to bake the cake. Avera(je cost, 2s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. CHABLOTTE, Husse (an elegant Sweet Entremet). Ingredients.—About 18 Savoy biscuits, 5 pint of cream, flavouring of vanilla, liqueurs, or wine, 1 tablespoonful of pounded sugar, h oz. of isinglass. Mode. I'rocure about 18 Savoy biscuits, or ladios'-fingers, as they ai-e sometimes culled ; brush the edges of them with the ■white of an egg, and line the bottom of a plain round mould, placing them like a star or rosette. Stand them upright all round the edge, carefully put them so closely together that the white of egg connects them firmly, and place this case in the oven for about 6 minutes, just to dry the egg. Whisk the cream to a stiff froth, with the sugar, flavouring, and melted isinglass ; fill the charlotte with it, cover with a slice of sponge-cake cut in the shape of the mould; place it in ice, where lot it remain till ready for table ; then turn it on a dish, remove the mould, and serve. 1 tablespoonful of liquem- of any kind, or 4 tablespoonf uls of wine, would nicely flavour the above proportion of cream. For arranging the biscuits in the mould, cut them to the shajjo required, so that they fit in nicely, and level them with the mould at the top, that, wben turned out, there may be Cheese something firm to rest upon. Great care and attention is required in the turning out of this dish, that the cream does not burst the cn.so ; and the edges of the bis- cuits must have the smallest quantity of egg brushed over them, or it would stick to the mould, and so prevent the char- lotte from coming away properly. Time. —5 minutes in the oven. Average cost, ■with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. (id. Suf- ficient for 1 charlotte. Seasonable at any time, CHEESE. Cheese is the curd formed from milk by artificial coagulation, pressed and dried for use. Curd, called also casein and caseous matter, or the basis of cheese, exists in the milk, and not in the cream, and re- quires only to be separated by coagula- tion : the coagulation, however, supposes some alteration of the curd. ]3y means of the substance employed to coagulate it, it is rendered insoluble in water. When the curd is freed from the whey, kneaded and pressed to expel it entirely, it becomes cheese; this assumes a degree of transparency, and possesses many of the properties of coagulated albumen. If it be well dried, it does not change by exposure to the air; but if it contain moisture, it soon putrefies ; it therefore requires some salt to preserve it, and this acts likewise as a kind of seasoning. All om* cheese is coloured more or less, ex- cept that made from skim milk. The colouring substances employed are ar- natto, turmeric, or marigold, all perfectly harmless unless they are adulterated; and it is said that arnatto sometimes contains red lead. Cheese varies in quality and richness according to the materials of which it is composed. It is made—1. Of entire milk, as in Cheshire ; 2. of milk and cream, as at Stilton; 3, of new milk mixed with skim milk, as in Gloucestershire; 4. of skimmed milk only, as in Sufi'olk, Hol- land, and Italy. The principal varieties of cheese used in England are the following: Cheshirt cheese, famed all over Europe for its rich quality and fine piquante flavour. It is made of entire new milk, the cream not, being taken oflf. Gloucester cheese is much milder in its taste than the Cheshire. There are two kinds of Gloucester cheece, single and double •.—Single Gloucester is made of skimmed milk, or ox the milkTHE DlCTIONAEY OF COOKEBY. CJlieese deprived of half the cream; Double Gloucester is a cheese that pleases almost every palate : it is made of the whole milk and cream. Stilton cheese is made by adding the cream of one day to the entire milk of the next: it was first made at Stilton, in Leicestershire. Sage cheese is so called from the practice of colour- ing some curd with bruised sage, mari- gold-leaves, and parsley, and mixing this with some uncoloured curd. With the Eomans, and during the middle ages, this practice was extensively adopted. Cheddar cheese much rc-sembles Parmesan. It has a very agreeable taste and flavour, and has a spongy appearance. Brickbat cheese has nothing remarkable except its form. It is made by turning with rennet a mixture of cream and new milk; the curd is put into a wooden vessel the shape of a brick, and is then pressed and dried in the usual way. Dimlop cheese has a peculiarly mild and rich taste : the best is made entirelj' from new milk. New cheese (as it is called in London) is made chiefly in Lincolnshii'e, and is either mafie of all cream, or, like Stilton, by adding the cream of one day's milking to the milk that comes immediately from the cow : they are extremely thin, and are compressed gently two or three times, turned for a few days, and then eaten new with radishes, salad, &c. Shimmed Milk cheese is made for sea voyages prin- cipally. Parnusan cheese is made in Parma and Piacenza. It is the most celebrated of all cheese: it is made en- tirely of skimmed cows' milk ; the high flavour which it has is supposed to be owing to the rich herbage of the meadows of the Po, where the cows are pastured. The best Parmesan is kept for three or four years, and none is carried to market till it is at least six months old. Dutch cheese derives its peculiar pungent taste from the practice adopted in Holland of coagulating the milk with muriatic acid instead of rennet. S^viss cheeses, in their several varieties, are all remarkable for their fine flavour ; that from Gruyere, a bailiwick in the canton of Fribourg, is best known in England ; it is flavoured by the dried herb of Melilotos officinalis in powder. Cheese from milk and pota- toes is manufactured in Thuringia and Saxony. Cream cheese, although so called, is not properly cheese, but is nothing moro than cream dried BufBciently to be cut with a knife. Cheese, Pounded CHEESE. In families where much cheese is con- sumed, and it is bought in large quan- tities, a piece from the whole cheese should be cut, the larger quantity spread with a thickly-buttered sheet of white paper, and the outside occasionally wiped. To keep cheeses moist that are in daily use, when they come from table a damp cloth should be wrapped round them, and the cheese put into a pan with a cover to it, in a cool but not very dry place. To ripen cheeses, and bring them forward, put them into a damp cellar; and to check too large a production of mites, spirits may be poured into the parts affected. Pieces of cheese which are too near the rind, or too dry to put on table, may be made into Welsh rare- bits, or grated down and mixed with macaroni. Cheeses may be preserved in a perfect state for years, by covering them with parchment made pliable by soaking in water, or by rubbing them over with a coating of melted fat. The cheeses selected should bo free fi-om cracks or bruises of any kind. CHEESE, Mode of Serving. The usual mode of serving cheese at good tables is to cut a small quantity oi it into neat square pieces, and to put them into a glass cheese-dish, this dish being handed round. Should the cheese crum- ble much, of course this me- thod is rather wasteful, and it cheese-glass. may then be put on the table in tha piece, and the host may cut from it. When served thus, the cheese must al- ways be carefully scraped, and laid on a white d'oyley or napkin, neatly folded. Cream cheese is often served in a cheese course, and, sometimes, grated Parme- san : the latter should be put into a covered glass dish. Kusks, cheese-bis- cuits, pats or slices of butter, and salad, cucumber, or water-cresses, should al- ways form part of a cheese-course. CHEESE, Pounded. Ingredients.—To every lb. of clicose allow 3 oz. of fresh butter. Mode.—To pound cheese is an economical way of using it if it has become dry; it is ex*THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 73 Choeso, Toasted ceedingly good spread on broad, and is tbo best way of eating it for thoso wlioso digestion is weak. Cut up the clieeso into small pieces, and pound it smoolhly in a mortar, adding butter in the above proportion. Press it down into a jar, cover with clarified butter, and it will keep for several days. The flavour may bo vcr}' much increased by adding mixed mustard (about a teaspoonful to every lb.), or caj enne, or pounded mace. Curry- powder is also not unfrequently mixed with it. CHEESE, Toasted, or Scotch Rare- bit, Ingredients. — A few slices of rich cheese, toast, mustard, and pepper. Mode.—Cut some nice rich sound cheese into rather thin slices ; melt it in a cheese-toaster on a hot plato or over steam, and, when melted, add a small quantity of mixed mustard and a season- ing of pepper; stir the cheese until it is completely dissolved, then brown it be- fore the fire, or with a salamander. Fill the bottom of the cheese-toaster with hot water, and serve with dry or buttered toasts, whichever may be preferred. Our engraving illus- trates a cheese- toaster with hot-water re- servoir : the HOT-WATEB CHEBSE-DisH. cheoso is mcltcd in the upper tin, which is placed in an- other vessel of boiling water, so keeping the preparation beautifully hot. _A small quantity of porter, or port wine, is some- times mixed with the cheese ; and, if it be not very rich, a few pieces of butter may bo mixed with it to great advantage. Sometimes the melted cheese is spread on the toasts, and then laid in the clicese- dish at the top of the hot water. Which- ever way it is served, it is highly neces- sary that the mixture be very hot, and Tery quickly sent to table, or it will bo worthless. Time.—About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average cost, Ihd. per slice. Sufficient.—AWow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. CHEESE, Toasted, or Welsh Bare- bit, Ingredients.—BWcea of bread, butter, Cheshire or Gloticcstcr cheese, mustard, find pepper. Mode.—Cnl the bread into Cheesecakes slices about J inch in thickness; pareoff the crust, toast the bread hligbtly with- out hardening or burning it, and spread it with butter. Cut some slices, not quite so large as the bread, from a good rich fat cheese ; lay them on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; be careful tliat the cheese docs not burn, and let it be equally melted. Spread over the top a little made mustard and a seasoning of pepper, and serve very hot, with very hot plates. To facilitate the melting of the cheese, it may be out into thin liiikes, or toasted on one side before it is laid on the bread. As it is so essential to send this dish hot to table, it is a good plan to melt the cheese in small round silver or metal pans, and to send these pans to table, allowing one for each guest. Slices of dry or buttered toast should always accompany them, with mustard, pepper, and salt. 2'ime.— About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average cost, Ihd. per slice. Sufficient.— Allow a slice to each person, SeasoiioZle at any lime. A'ote.—Should the cheese be dry, a littlo butter mixed with it will be an improvement, CHEESE SANDWICHES. Ingredients. —Slices of brown bread- and-butter, thin slices of cheese. Mode. —Cut from a nice fat Cheshire, or any good rich cheese, some slices about .f, inch thick, and place them between some slices of brown bread-and-butter, like sandwiches. Place them on a plate in the oven, and, when the bread is toasted, serve on a napkin very hot and very quickly. Time.—10 minutes in a brisk oven. Avei'agc cost, IW. each sandwich. Sufficient.—Allow a san lwich for each person. Seasonable at any time. CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—8 oz. of pressed curds, 2 oz. of ratafias, C oz. of siigar, 2 oz. of butter, the j'olks of 6 eggs, nutmogs, salt, rind of 2 oranges or lemons. Mode. —Rub the sugar on the or.ange or lemon rind, and scrape it ofT. Press the cunl in a napkin, to get rid of moisture ; jiouuJ it thoroughly in n. morlar with the other ingredients till tlic-Avluilc becomes a soft paste, l^ino 2 dozen, or more, tartlet- pans with good pufT-paste, garnish liieso with the cheese-custard, placo a strip ofTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 73 Cherokee candiod-peel on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven a light colour ; when done, shake a little sifted sugar over them. Cun-ants, dried cherries, sul- tanas, and citron may be used instead of candieJ-peel. Time.—20 minutes to bake. Average cost, Qd. per dozen. Sea- sonahle at any time. CHHEOKEE, or Store Sauce. ■ Ingredients.—h oz. of cayenne pepper, 5 cloves of garlic^ 2 tablcspoonfuls of soy, 1 tablespoonf ul of walnut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar, ^/orfe.—Boil all the ingre- dients gently for about h hour; strain the liquor, and bottle off for use. Time, — i hour. Seasoiiahle.-^'ihis sauce can be'mado at any time. CnERRIES, Dried, Cherries may be put into a slow oven and thoroughly dried before they begin to change colour; tliey should then be taken out of the oven, tied in bunches, and stored away in a dry place. In the winter, they may be cooked with sugar for dessert, the same as Normandy pip- pins. Particular care must be taken that the oven be not too hot. Another me- thod of drying cherries is to stone them, and to put them into a preserving-pan, with plenty of loaf sugar strewed amongst them. They should bo simmered till the fruit shrivels, when they should be strained from the juice. The cherries should then be placed in an oven cool enough to dry without baking them. About 5 oz. of sugar would be required foi 1 lb. of cherries, and the same syrup may bo used again to do another quan- tity of fruit. CHERRIES, MoreUo, to Preserve. Ingredients.—1o every lb. of cherries allow Ij lb. of sugar, 1 gill of water, jVof/e.~Selcct ripe cherries, pick off the 6t.alk3, and reject all that have any ble- mishes. Boil the sugar and water toge- ther for 5 minutes ; put in the chen-ies, and boil them for 10 minutes, removing the scum as it rises. Then turn the iiwit, &c., into a pan, and let it remain until the next day, when boil it all again for another 10 minutes, and, if necessary, sJ-.im well. Put the cherries into small dots, pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down with oiled papers) and the tops of the jars with tissue-paper Cherry Brandy, to make brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and keep in a dry place. Time. —Altogether, 25 minutes to boil. Ave- rage cost, from 8c^. to \M. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in July or August. CHERRIES, to Preserve in Sjrrup (very delicious). Ingredients.—4 lbs. of cherries, 3 lbs. of sugar, 1 pint of white-currant juice. Mode.—Let the cherries be as clear and as transparent as possible, and perfectly ripe ; pick olf the stalks, and remove the stones, damae^ing the fruit as little as j'ou can. Make a syrup with the above proportion of sugar, mix the cherries with it, and boil them for about 15 mi- nutes, carefully skimming them ; turn them gently into a pan, and let them remain till the next day, then drain the cherries on a sieve, and put the synip and white-currant juice into the pi"e- servingrpan again. Boil these together until the syrup is somewhat reduced and rather thick, then put in the cherries, and let them boil for about 5 minutes ; take them off the fire, skim the syrup, put the cherries into small pots or wide- mouthed bottles; pour the syrup over, and, when quite cold, tie them down carefully, so that the air is quite excluded. Time.—15 minutes to boil the cherries in the syrup ; 10 minutes to boil the syrup and cun-ant-juice; 5 minutes to boil the cherries the second time. Ave- rage cost for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sea- sonable.—Make this in July or August. CHERRY BRANDY, to make. Ingredients.—Morello cherries, good brandy; to every lb. of cherries allow 3 oz. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Havo ready some glass bottles, which must be perfectly diy. Ascertain that the cher- ries are not too ripe and are freshly gathered, and cut off about half of the stalks. Put them into the bottles, with the above proportion of sugar to every lb. of fruit; strew this in between the cherries, and, when the bottles are nearly full, pour in sufficient brandy to reach just below the cork. A few peach or apricot kernels will add much to their flavour, or a few blanched bitter almonds. Put corks or bungs into tlie bottles, tie over tliem a piece of bladder, and storo away in a dry place. The cherries will bo fit to cat iu 2 or 3 months, and will remain good for years. They are liableTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 74 Chorry Jam to shrivel and bocomo tough if too much sugar bo added to them. Averatje cost, Is. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient.—1 lb. of cherries and about a i pint of brandy for a quart bottlo. Seasonable in August and September. CHEEBY JAM. Ingredients. — To every lb. of fruit, weighed before stoning, allow h lb. of sugar ; to every G lbs. of fruft allow 1 pint of red-currant juice, and to every pint cf juice 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.— Weigh the fruit before stoning, and allow halt the weight of sugar ; stone the cher- ries, and boil them in a preserving-pan until nearly all the juice is dried up, then add the sugar, which should be crushed to powder, and the currant-juice, allow- ing 1 pint to every 6 lbs. of cherries (ori- ginal weight), and 1 lb. of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil all together until it jollies, which will be in fi-om 20 minutes to h hour; skim the jam well, keep it well stirred, and, a few minutes before it is done, crack some of the stones, and add the kernels: these impart a very delicious flavour to the jam. Time.— According to the quality of the cherries, from 5 to 1 hour to boil them; 20 mi- nutes to I hour with the sugar. Average cost, from Id. to 8(^. per lb. pot. Siifficieut. —1 pint of fruit for a lb. pot of jam. Seasonable. —JIake this in July or August. CHERBY SAUCE, for Sweet Pud- dings (German Eecipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of cherries, 1 table- spoouful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, ^ pint of water, 1 wincglassful of port wine, a little grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, 2 tablospoonfuls of lemon-juice, sugar to taste. Mode.—Stono the cher- ries, and pound the kernels in a mortar to a smooth paste ; put tho butter and flour into a saucepan, stir them over tho fire until of a pale brown, then add the cherries, tho pounded kernels, the wine, and the water. Simmer these gently for ,| hour, or until tho cherries aro quite cooked, and rub tho whole through a hair sieve ; add the remaining ingre- dients, let tho sauce boil for another 6 minutes, and serve. This is a deli- cious sauce to serve with boiled batter pudding, and when thus used, should bo sent to table poured over tho pud- ding, rij/ie.—20 minutea to J hour. Chestnut Sauce Average cost, 1«. 2d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in Juno, July, and August. CHEBRY TABT. Ingredients.—l.^ lb. of cherries, 2 small table.spoonfuls of moist sugar, ^ lb. of short crust. Mode. — Pick the stalks from the cherries, put tliem, with tho sugar, into a deep pic-dish just cai)able of holding them, with a small cup placed upside down in the midst of them. Jlake a short crust with ^ lb. of flour, by either of tho reci[)es for short crust, lay a bor- der round the edge of tho dish, put on the cover, and ornament the edges ; bake in a brisk oven from h hour to 40 mi- nutes ; strew finely-silted sugar over, and serve hot or cold, although the latter is the more usual mode. It is more economical to make two or three tarts at one time, as the trimmings from one tart answer for lining the edges of the dish for another, and so much paste is not required as when they are made singly. Unless for family use, never make fmit pies in very large dishes; select them, however, as dee}) as possible. Time. — i hour to 40 minutes. Average cost, in lull season, %d. Sufficient for h or 6 per- sons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. Note.—A few currants added to the cherries will be found to impart a nice piquante taste to them. CHESTNUT SAUCE, BrowH. Ingredients.—\ lb. of chestnuts, h pint of stock, 2 lumps of sugar, 4 tablospoon- fuls of Spanish sauce {see Sauces). Mode. —Prepare the chestnuts as in the suc- ceeding recipe, by scalding and peeling them ; put them in a stewpan with the stock and sugar, and simmer them till tender. When done, add Spanish sauce in tho above proportion, and rub tho whole through a tammy. Keep this sauce rather liquid, as it is liable to thicken. Time.—1.^ hour to simmer tho chestnuts. Average cost, 8d. CHESTNUT SAUCE, lor Fowls or Tm'koy. Ingredients.—^ lb. of chestnuts, J pint of white stock, 2 strips of lemon-peel, cayenne to tasto, ^ pint of cream or milk. Mode.—FcqI off the outside skin oi tho chestnuts, and put them into boiKng75 ^HE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chestnut Soup water for a few minutes; take off the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan with the white stock and lemon- peel, and let them simmer for Ig hour, or until the chestnuts are quite tender. Kuh the whole through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon ; add seasoning and the cream ; let it just simmer, but not boil, and keep stirring all the time. Serve very hot, and quickly. If milk is used instead of cream, a very small quantity of thickening may be required: that, of course, the cook will determine. Time. —Altogether, nearly 2 hours. Average cost, Sd. Sufficient, this quantity for a tm-key. CHESTNUT (Spanish.) SOUP. Ingredients.—f lb. of Spanish chest- nuts, \ pint of cream ; seasoning to taste of salt, caj'-enne, and mace; 1 quart of stock. Mode.—Take the outer rind from the chestnuts, and put them into a large pan of warm water. As soon as this becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in it, take out the chestnuts, peel them quickly, and immerse them in cold water, and wipe and weigh them. Now cover them with good stock, and stew them gently for rather more than f of an hour, or until they break when touched with a fork ; then drain, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve reversed ; add suffi- cient stock, mace, cayenne, and salt, and stir it often until it boils, and put in the cream. The stock in which the chest- nuts are boiled can be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to, or it may, in part, be added to it; and the rule is, that ^ lb. of chestnuts should be given to each quart of soup. Time.— Bather more than 1 hour. Average cost, per quart, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from October to February. CHICKETTS, Boiled. Ingredients.—K pair of chickens, wa- ; or. C'/ioosi,vg and Trvssivg.—In choos- ing fowls for boiling, it should be borne in mind that those which are not black- Iccrgcd are generally much whiter when dressed. Pick, draw, singe, wash, and truss them in the following manner, without the livers in the wings ; and, in drawing, be careful not to break the gall-bladder :—Cut off the neck, leaving BuflRcicnt skin to skewer back. Cut the feet off to the first joint, tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the belly, Chicken Broth. twist the wings over the back of the fowl, and secure the top of the leg and tho bottom of the wing together by running a skewer through them and the body. The other side must be done in the same manner. Should the fowl be very large and old, draw the sinews of the legs before tucking them in. Make a slit in the apron of the fowl, large enough to admit the parson's nose, and tie a string on the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper place. Mode.—When they are firmly trussed, put them into a stew- pan with plenty of hot'water, bring it to boil, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Simmer very gently until the fowl is tender, and bear in mind that the slower it boils the plumper and whiter BOILED POWl. will the fowl be. Many cooks wrap them in a floured cloth to preserve the colour, and to prevent tho scum from clinging to them; in this case, a few slices of lemon should be placed on the breasts, over these a sheet of biittered paper, and then the cloth; cooking them in this manner renders the flesh very white. Boiled ham, bacon, boiled tongue, or pickled pork, are the usual accompani- ments to boiled fowls, and they may be served with Bechamel, white sauce, par- sley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, celery, or mushroom sauce. A little should be poured over the fowls after the skewers are removed, and the remainder sent in a tureen to table. Time. —Largo fowl, 1 hour ; moderate-sized one, 3 hour; chicken, from 20 minutes to n hour. Average cost, in full season, 5s. the pair. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonalle all the year, but scarce in early spring. CHICKEN BHOTH. Ingredients.— ^ fowl, or the inferior joints of a whole one; 1 quart of water, 1 blade of mace, h onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, salt to taste, 10 pepper- corns. Mode.—An old fowl not suitable for eating may be converted into very good broth ; or, if a young one be used, tho inferior joints may be put in the broth, and the best pieces reserved foiTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERT. 70 Chicken, Curried drcssincr in some other manner. Put the fowl into a saucepan, stew all the ingre- dients, and simmer gently for H hour, carel'ully skimming the broth well. "When done, strain, and put bj in a cool place until wanted ; then take all the fat off the top, warm up as much as may bo required, and serve. This broth is, of course, only for those invalids whose stomachs are strong enough to digest it, with a flavouring of herbs, &c. It may be made iu the same manner as beef tea, with water and salt only, but the pre|ia- ration will be but tasteless and insipid. When the invalid cannot digest this chicken broth with the flavouring, we •would recommend plain beef tea in pre- ference to plain chicken tea, which it would be without the addition of herbs, onions, &c. Time.—\h hour. Sufficient to make rather more than 1 pint of brotii. CHICKEN, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowls, 2 large onions, 1 apple, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessert- spooniul of curry-powder, 1 teaspoonful of flour, h pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Slice the onions, peel, core, and chop the apple, and cut the fowl into neat joints ; Iry these in the butter of a nice brown, then add tho curry-povvdcr, flour, and gravy, and stew for about 20 miuutes. Put in the lemon- juice, and serve with boiled rice, either placed in a ridge round the disl) or sepa- rately. Two or three shalots or a little garlic may be added, if ai)proved. Time. —Altogether, ^ hour. Averar/e cost, ex- clusive of the cold fowl, 6d, iieasoiiahle in the winter. CHICKEN CUTLETS (an Entree). Jnrjredienls.—2 chickens ; seasoning to taste of salt, white pepper, and cayenne ; 2 blades of pounded mace, egg and bread crumbs, clarified butter, 1 strip of lemon- rind, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, thickeningof but- ter and flour, 1 egg. J/orfc—Remove thobrea.st and log-bones of tho chickens; cut tho meat intoneat piecesaftorhaving skinned it, and season tho cutlets with {lepper, salt, pounded mace, and cayenne, 'ut the bones, trimmings, &c., into a Btcwi)an with 1 pint of water, adding carrots, onions, and lemon-peel in tho abovo proportion ; stew gently for ] h Lour, and strain tho gravy. Thicken it Chicken, Fricasseed with butter and flour, add tho ketchrjp and 1 egg well beaten; stir it over the fire, and bring it to the simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil. In the mean time, egg and bread crumb the cutlets, and give them a few drops of clarified butter ; fry them a delicate brown, oc- casionally turning them; arrange them pyramidically on the dish, and pour over them the sauce. Time.—10 minutes to fry the cutlets. Averarje cost, 2s. each. Sufficient for an entree." Seasonable from April to July. CHICKEN CUTLETS, French. [Cold Meat Cookeht.] Inrjredients. —The remains of cold roast or boiled fowl, fried bread, clarified butter, the yolk of 1 egg, broad crumbs, h teaspoon- ful of finely-minced lemon-peel; salt, ca- yenne, and mace to taste. For sauce,— 1 oz. of butter, 2 minced shalots, a few slices of carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 blade of pounded mace, (J peppercorns, h pint ol gravy. Mode.—Cut the fowls" into as many nice cutlets as possible; take a corresponding number of sippets about the same size, all cut one shape; fry thom a pale brown, put them before the fire, then dip the cutlets into clarified butter mi.Ked with tho yolk of an egg, cover with bread crumbs seasoned in the above proportion, with lemon-peel, mace, salt, and cayenne; fry them for about 5 minutes, put each piece on one of the sipj)ets, pile them high in tho dish, and serve with the following sauce, which should bo made ready for the cutlets. Put tho butter into a stewpan, add the shalots, carrot, herbs, mace, and pepper- corns ; fry for 10 minutes, or rather longer; pour in h pint of good grav^', made of tho chicken-bones ; stew gently for 20 minutes, strain it, and serve. Time. —5 minutes to fry the cutlets; 35 minutes to make the gravy. Avanrje cost, exclu- sive of tho chicken, ^d. Seasonable fi ora April to July. CHICKEN, Fricasseed (an Entree). Ivfjrcdients.—2 small fowls or 1 large one, 3 oz. of butter, a bunch of pnrslcy and green onions, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, 1 shalot, 1 bay-leaf, salt and white pepper to taste, ,•} pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Choose acoupio of fat plump chickens, and, after drawing, singeing, and washing them, skin, and77 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chicken Patties carve them into joints ; blanch these in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes, take them out, and immerse them in cold vi-ater to render them white. Put the trimmings, with the necks and legs, into a stewpan ; add the parsley, onions, clove, mace, shalot, bay-leaf, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour to these the water that the chickens were blanched in, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. Have ready another stew- pan ; put in the joints of fowl, with the above proportion of butter; dredge them with flour, let them get hot, but do not brown them much ; then moisten the fricassee with the gravy made from the trimmings, &c., and stew very gently for ^ hour. Lift the fowl into another stew- pan, skim the sauce, reduce it quickly over the fire by letting it boil fast, and strain it over them. Add the cream, and a seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne ; let it boil up, and when ready to serve, stir to it the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs; these should not bo put in till the last moment, and the sauce should be made hot, but must not hoil, or it will instantly curdle. A few button-mush- rooms stewed with the fowl are by many persons considered an improvement, Time.—l hour to make the gravy, h hour to simmer the fowl. Averane cost, 5s. the pair, Fiufficient.—\ large fowl for 1 entree. Seasonable at any time. CHICKEN (or Fowl) PATTIES. [Cold Meat Cookkut.] Inrjredients. — rhe remains of cold roast chicken or f.'wl; to every .j lb. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham, 3 tableppoonfuls of cream, 2 ta- blespoonfuls of veal gravy, }, tcaspoonful of minced lemon-peel; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour puff paste, il/ot^e.—Mince very small the white meat from a cold roast fowl after removing all the skin; weigh it' and to every \ lb. of meat allow the above proportion of minced ham. Put these iiuo a stewpan with the remaining inn-re- dients, stir over the fire for 10 minutes or i hour, taking care tliat the mixture does not bum. Roll out some pufl" paste about .•} inch in thickness, line the patty- pans with this, put upon each a small piece of bread, and cover with another layer of paste ; brush over with the yolk of an e<.'g, and hake in a brisk oven for about \ houi-. When done, cut a round Chicken, Potted piece out of the top, and, with a small spoon, take out the bread (be particular in not breaking the outside border of the crust), and fill the patties with the mixture. Time.—\ hour to prepare the meat; rot quite ^ hour to bake the crust. Seasonable at any time. CHICKEN (or Fowl) PIE. Ingredients.—2 small fowls or 1 largo one, white pepper and salt to taste, h tcaspoonful of grated nutmeg, h tea" spoonful of pounded mace, forcemeat, a few slices of ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, ^ pint of water, puff crust. Mode.— Skin and cut up the fowls into joints, and jjut the neck, leg, and backbones in a stewpan, with a little water, an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a blade of mace ; let these stew for about an hour, and, when done, strain olf the liquor: this is for gravy. Put a layer of fowl at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of ham, then one of forcemeat and hard-boiled eggs cut in rings; be- tween the layers put a seasoning of pounded mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, and pour in about h pint of water; border the edge of the'dish with puff crust, put on the cover, ornament the top, and glaze it by brushing over it the yolk of an egg. Bake from l.j to lA hour, should the pie be veiy large, and, when done, pour in at the top the gravy made from the bones. If to be eaten cold, and wished particularly nice, the joints of the fowls should be boned, and placed in the dish with alternate layers of forcemeat; sausage-meat may also be substituted for the forcemeat, and is now very much used. When the chickens are boned, and mixed with sausage-meat, the pie will take about 2 hom-s to bake. It should be covered with a piece of paper when about half- done, to prevent the paste being dried up or scorched. Time.—Yon a pin with unboned meat, l.j to 1;^ hour ; with boned meat and sausage or "forcemeat, l.'JtoS hours. Average cost, with 2 fowls, (5s. C</. Sufficient for G or 7 persons. Seasonaltt at any time. CHICKEN, Potted (a Luncheon or Breakfast Dish). Inc/redicnts.—Tho remains of cold roast chicken ; to every lb. of meat ailow lb. of fresh butter, salt and cayenne to tasto.78 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chicken Salad 1 teaspoonful of poundod mace, h small nutmeg. Mode.—Strip the meat from the bones of cold roast fowl; when it is freed from gristle and skin, weigh it, and to every lb. of meat allow the above pro- portion of butter, seasoning, and spices. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound it "woll with the fresh butter, sprinkle in the spices gradually, and keep pounding until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Put it into potting-pots for use, and cover it with clarified butter, about | inch in thickness, and, if to be kept for some time, tie over a bladder : 2 or 3 slices of ham, minced and pounded with the above ingredients, will bo found an improve- ment. It should be kept in a dry place. Seasonable at any time. CHICKE]Sr (or Fowl) SALAD. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled chicken, 2 lettuces, a little en- dive, 1 cucumber, a few slices of boiled beetroot, salad-dressing. Mode.—Trim neatly the remains of the chicken; wash, dry, and slice the lettuces, and place in the middle of a dish ; put tha pieces of fowl on the top, and pour the salad- dressing over them. Garnish the edge of the salad with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, sliced cucumber, and boiled beet- root cu*, in slices. Instead of cutting the eggs in rings, the yolks may be rubbed through a hair sieve, and the whites chopped very finely, and arranged on the salad in small bunches, yellow and white alternately. This should not be made long before it is wanted for table. A ver- age cost, exclusive of the cold chicken, 8d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. CHILI VIWEGAB. Ingredients.—50 fresh red English chi- lics, 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Pound or cut the chilics in half, and infuse them in the vinegar for a fortnight, when it ■will be fit for use. This will be found an agreeable relish to fish, as many people cannot eat it without the addition of an acid and cayenne pepper. CHIWA CHILD. Ingredients.—l)i lb. of leg, loin, or neck of mutton, 2 onions, 2 lettuces, 1 pint of green peas, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, \ pint of water, \ lb. of clarified butter; when liked, a little Chocolate Cream cayenne. Mode.—Mince the above quan- tity of undressed leg, loin, or neck of mutton, adding a little of the fat, also minced ; put it into a stowpan with the remaining ingredients, previously shred- ding the lettuce and onion rather fine ; closely cover the stewpan, after the ingre- dients have been well stirred, and sim • mer gently for rather more than two hours. Serve in a dish, with a border of rice round, the same as for curry. Time, —Rather more than two hours. A verage cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from June to August, CHOCOLATE, to Make, Ingredients.—Allow J oz. of chocolate to each person ; to every oz. allow ^ pint of water, ^ pint of milk. Mode.— Make the milk-and-water hot; scrape the chocolate into it, and stir the mixture constantly and quickly until the chocolate is dis- solved; bring it to the boiling- point, stir it well, and serve di- rectly with white sugar. Choco- late prepared within a mill, as shown in the engraving, is made by putting in the scraped choco- late, pouring over it the boiling milk-and-water, and milling it ovei- the fire until hot and frothy, mili,. Sufficient.—Allow i oz. of cake chocolate to each person. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Ingredients.—3 oz. of grated chocolate, \ lb. of sugar, 1^ pint of cream, Ik oz. of clarified isinglass, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Boat the yolks of the eggs well, put them into a basin with the grated 0BBA.U-M0ULD. chocolate, the sugar, and 1 pint of the cream ; stir those ingredients well toge- ther, pour them into a jug, and set this jug in a saucepan of boiling water ; stir it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not alloxo it to boil, or it will79 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chocolate SoufllS curdle. Strain the cream tbrough a sieve into a basin ; stir in the isinglass and the other h pint of cream, which should be well wfiipped; mix all well together, and pour it into a mould which has been pre- viously oiled with the purest salad-oil, and, if at hand, set it in ice until wanted for table. Time.—About 10 minutes to stir the mixture over the fire. Average cost, 4s. 6d., with cream at Is. per pint. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 3 teaspoonfula of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoouful of flour, 3 oz. of the best chocolate. Mode. — Break the eggs, separating the whites from the yolks, and put them into dif- ferent basins; add to the yolks the sugar, flour, and chocolate, which should be very finely grated, and stir these in- gredients for 5 minutes. Then well whisk the whites of the eggs in the other basin until they are stiff, and, when firm, mix lightly with the yolks till the whole forms a smooth and light substance; butter a round cake-tin, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Pin a white napkin round the tin, strew sifted sugar over the top of the soufl36, and send it immediately to table. The proper appearance of this dish de- pends entirely on the expedition with which it is served; and some cooks, to preserve its lightness, hold a salamander over the soufla^ until it is placed on the table. If allowed to stand after it comes from the oven it will be entirely spoiled, as it falls almost immediately. Time.— 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is, Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized souffle, ^eci- sonable at any time. CLAEET-CUP. Tngredienis.—l bottle of claret, 1 bottl/ soda-water, about ^ lb, of pounded ice, ^^^^^^^^^ 4 tablespoonfulsof ^^^^^^^^ Maraschino, a ^^^^^^k^ sprig of green bo- •IA.BBT-OPP, portion of ice^by Cocoa, to make the state of the weather; if very warm, a larger quantity would be necessary. Hand the cup round with a clean nap- kin passed through one of the han- dles, that the edge of the cup may be wiped after each guest has partaken of the contents thereof. Seasonable in summer. COCK-A-LEEKIE. Ingredients.—A capon or large fowl (sometimes an old cock, from which the recipe takes its name, is used), which should be trussed as for boiling, 2 or 3 bunches of fine leeks, 5 quarts of stock {see Stock), pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Well wash the leeks (and, if old, scald them in boiling water for a few minutes), taking off the roots and part of the heads, and cut them into lengths of about an inch. Put the fowl into the stock, with, at first, one half of the leeks, and allow it to simmer gently. In half an hour add the remaining leeks, and then it may simmer for 3 or 4 hours longei". It should be carefully skimmed, and can be seasoned to taste. In serving, take out the fowl and carve it neatly, placing the pieces in a tureen, and pour- ing over them the soup, which should be very thick of leeks (a.2}uree of leeks, the French would call it). Time.—i hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. per quart; or with stock. Is. Sufficient for 10 persons. Sea- sonable in winter. Note.—Without the fowl, the above, which would then be merely called leek soup, is very good, and also economical. Cock-a-leekie was largely cons\mied at the Burns Centenary Festival at the Ciystal Palace, Sydeniiam,. in 1859. COCOA, to Make. Ingredients.—Allow 2 teaspoonfiils of the prepared cocoa to 1 breakfast-cup ; boiling milk and boiling water. Mode.— Put the cocoa into a breakfast-cup, pour over it sufficient cold milk to make it into a smooth paste ; then add equal quantities of boiling milk and boiling water, and stir all well together. Caro must be taken not to allow the milk t» get burnt, as it will entirely spoil the flavour of the preparation. The above directions are usually given for making the prepared cocoa. The rock cocoa, or that bought in a solid piece, should be scraped, and made in the same manner, taking care to rub down all the lumps80 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEllY, Cod before the boiling liquid is added. Suffi- cient,—2 teaspounfuls of prepared cocoa for 1 brcakf;ist-cup, or ^ oz. of the rock cocoa for the Eame quantity. COD. Cod should be chosen for the table when it is plump and round near the tail, when the hollow behind the head is deep, and when the sides are undulated as if they were ribbed. The glutinous parts about the head lose their delicate flavour after the fish has been twenty-four hours out of the water. The great point by which the cod should be judged is the firmness of its flesh ; and, although the cod is not firm when it is alive, its quality may be arrived at by pressing the finger into the flesh : if this rises immediately, the flesh is good ; if not, it is stale. Another sign of its goodness is, if the fish, when it is cut, exhibits a bronze ap- pearance, like the silver side of a round of beef ; when this is the case the flesh will be firm when cooked. Stiffness in a cod, or in any other fish, is a sure sign of freshness, though not always of quality. Sometimes codfish, though exhibiting signs of rough usage, will eat much bet- tir than those with red gills, so strongly recommended by many cookery-books. This appearance is generally caused by the fish having been knocked about at sea, in the well-boats, in which they are conveyed from the fishing-grounds to market. COD h, la BECHAMEL. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Inr/redienls.— Any remains of cold cod, 4 tablcspoonfuls of bdchamel (see Bechamel Sauce), 2 oz. of butter; seasoning to taste of pepper ajidsalt; fried bread, a few bread crumbs. J/o(fe.—Flake the cod carefully, leaving out all skin and bone ; put the b6chamel in a stowpan with the butter, and stir it ,over the fire till the latter is melted ; add seasoning, put in the fish, and mix it well with the sauce. Make a border of fried bread round tho dish, lay in the fish, sprinkle over with bread crumbs, .ind baste with butter. Brown either before tho fire or with a salamander, and garnish with toasted bread cut in fanci- ful shapes. Timc—hhonr. Average cost, exclusive of the fish, Qd. OOD t- la CBEME. [Cold Meat Cookeuy.] Ingredients. Cod a la Maitro d'Hotel —1 large slice of cod, 1 oz. of butter, 1 chopped shalot, a little minced parsley, I teacupful of v/hite stock, \ pint of milk or cream, flour to tliicken, cayenne and lemon-juico to taste, .j teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Boil tho cod, and while hot, break it into flakes ; put tho butter, shalot, parsley, and stock into a stcwpan, and let them boil for 5 mi- nutes. Stir in sufficient flour to thicken, and pour to it the milk or cream. Sim- mer for 10 minutes, add the cayenne and sugar, and, when liked, a little lemon- juice. Put the fish in tho sauce to warm gradually, but do not let it boil. Sei-vo in a dish garnished with croCltons. Time. —Rather more than h hour. Average cost, with cream, 2s. Sttfficienl for 3 per- sons. Seasonable from November to March. JVote.—The remains of fish from the preceding day answer very well for this dish. COD a I'lTALIENNE. Ingredients.—2 slices of crimped cod, 1 shalot, 1 slice of ham minced very fine, I pint of white stock, when liked, ^ tea- cupful of cream ; salt to taste ; a few drops of garlic vinegar, a little lemon- juico, ^ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Chop the shalots, mince the ham very fine, pour on the stock, and simmer for 15 minutes. If the colour should not be good, add cream in the above pro- portion, and strain it through a fine sieve ; season it, and put in the vinegar, lemon-juice, and sugar. Now boil tho cod, take out tho middle bone, and skin it; put it on tho dish without breaking, and pour the sauce over it. Time.— % hour. Average cost, 3s. 6d., with fresh fish. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from November to Mai ch. COD h la MAITBE D'HOTEL. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredic.tf. —2 slices of cod, \ lb. of butter, a little chopped shalot and parsley; pepper to taste; ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, or rather less when tho flavour is not liked; tho juice of J lemon. Mode.— Boil tho cod, and cither leave it whole, or, what is still better, flake it from tho bone, and take oflT the skin. Put it into a stcwpan with the butter, parsley, sha- lot, pepper, and nutmeg. Melt the but- ter gradually, and be very careful tliat it does not booome like oil. When all iiTHE DICTIONAEY OP COOKERY. 81 Cod, Curried wo^ixed and thoroughly hot, add the lemon jiuce, and serve. Time.— h hour. Averaje cost, 2s. 6d. ; with remams of lold fish, 5d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from November to March. ^Voitf.—Cod that has been'left will do for this. COD, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —2 slices of largo cod, or the remains of any cold fish ; 3 oz. of butter, 1 onion sliced, a teacupful of white stock, thick- ening of butter and flour, 1 small tea- spoonful of curry-powder, { pint of cream, salt and cayenne to taste. J/ocfe.—Flake the fish, and fry it of a nice brown colour ■with the butter and onions ; put this in a stewpan, add the stock and thickening, and simmer for 10 minutes. Stirthe curry- powder into the cream ; put it, with the seasoning, to the other ingredients ; give one boil, and serve. Time.— f hour. Aviraqe cost, with fresh fish, 3s. Svffi- dent lor 4 persons. Seosonable from November to March. COD PIE. Ingredients.—2 slices of coa ; pepper and salt to taste ; ^ a teaspoouful of grated nutmeg, 1 largo blade of pounded mace, 2 oz. of butter, k pint of stock, a paste crust {see Pastry). For sauce,— 1 tablcspoonful of stock, ^ pint of cream or milk, thickening of flour or butter, Icmon-necl chopped very fine to taste, 12 oysters. Mode.—Lay the cod in salt for 4 hours, then wash it and place it in a dish ; season, and add the butter I and stock ; cover with the crust, and b.ike for 1 hour, or rather more. Now ! make the sauce, by mixing the ingre- dients named above; give it one boil, ! and pour it into the pie by a hole made at the top of the crust, which can easily i be covered by a small piece of pastry cut 1 and baked in any fanciful shape,—such as a loaf, or otherwise. Time.—1.^ hour. A verage cost, with fresh fish, 2s. Gc£ Suf- f-cieut for G persons. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—The remains of cold fish may bo used for this pie. COD PIE. (Economical.) [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. Anj- remains of cold cod, 12 oysters, f illicieut melted butter to moisten it; Cod Sounds, en Poule mashed potatoes enough to fill up the dish. Mode.—Flake the fish from the bone, and carefully take away all the skin. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over the melted butter and oysters (or oyster sauce, if there is any left), and cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for ^ an hour, and send to table of a nice brown colour. Time.—h hour. Seasonable h'ovr November to March. COD, Salt, commonly caUed " Salt- fish." Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode. — Wash the fish, and lay it all night in water, with a | pint of vinegar. When thoroughly soaked, take it out, see that it is perfectly clean, and put it in the fish-kettle with suffi- cient cold water to cover it. Heat it gradually, but do not let it boil much, or the fish will be hard. Skim well, and when done, drain the fish, and put it on a napkin garnished with hard-boiled eggsr cut in rings. Time.—About 1 hour. Average cost, Qd. per lb. Sufficient for each person, 1^ lb. Seasonable in the spring. Note.—Serve with egg sauce and par- snips. This is an especial dish on Ash Wednesday. COD SOUNDS Should be well soaked in salt and water, and thoroughly washed before dressing them. They are considered a great delicacy, and may cither be broiled, fried, or boiled ; if they are boiled, mix a little milk with the water. COD SOUNDS, en Poule. Ingredients.—For forcemeat, 12 chop- ped oysters, 3 chopped anchovies, \ lb. of bread crumbs, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace to ^asto ; 4 cod sounds. Mode.-~' Make the forcemeat by mixing the ingre- dients well together. Wash the sounds, and boil them in milk and water for ^ an hour; take them out, and let them cool. Cover each with a hvyer of foioemoat, roll them up in a nice form, ana skewer them. Rub over with lard, dredge wit> flour, and cook them gently before the. fire in a Dutch oven. Time.—?, hour. Average cost, 6d. per lb.THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 82 Cod's Head and Shoulders COD'S HEAD & SHOULDERS. Ingredients.—SufBciont water to cover the hsh; 5 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish tho- roughly, and rub a little salt over the thick part and inside of the fish 1 or 2 hours before dressing it, as this very much improves the flavour. Lay it in the fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it. Be very particular not to {lOur the water ou the fish, as it is liable 0 break it, and only keep it just simmer- ing. If the water should boil away, add a little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle, and not on the fish. Add salt in the above proportion, and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim very care- fully, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it gently simmer till done. Take it out and drain it; servo on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and horse- radish. Time.—According to size, ^ an hour, more or less. Average cost, from 3s. to 6s. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—Oyster sauce and plain melted butter should be served with this. GOD'S HEAD & SHOULDEES, to Carve. First run the knife along the centre of the side of the fish, namely, from d to h, down to the bone ; then carve it in un- Cofifee, Nutritious m broken slices downwards from d to e, or upwards from d to c, as shown in the engraving. The carver should ask the guests if they would like a portion of the roe and liver. Note.—Of this fish, the parts about the backbone af d shoulders are the firmest and most esteemed by connoisseurs. The sound, which lines the fish beneath the backbone, is considered a delicacy, aa are also the gelatiuous parts about the head and Bock. COFFEE, Essence of. Ingredients.—To every ^ lb. of ground coflfee allow 1 small teaspoonful of pow- dered chicory, 3 small teacupfuls, or 1 pint, of water. Mode.—Let the coffee bo freshly ground, and, if possible, freshly roasted ; put it into a percolator, or filter, with the chicory, and pour slowly over it the above proportion of boiling water. When it has all filtered through, warm the coffee sufficiently to bring it to the simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil; then filter it a second time, put it into a clean and dry bottle, cork it well, and it will remain good for several days. Two tablespoonfuls of this essence are quite sufficient for a breakfast-cupful of hot milk. This essence will be found particularly useful to those persons who have to rise extremely early ; and having only the milk to make boiling, is very easily and quickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pour another 3 tea- cui^fuls of boiling water slowly on the grounds, which, when filtered through, will be a very weak coffee. The next time there is essence to be prepared, make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the ground- coffee instead of plain water: by this means a better coffee win be obtained. Never throw away the grounds without having made use of them in this manner; and always cork the bottle well that contains this prepara- tion, until the day that it is wanted for making the fresh essence. Time.—To bo filtered once, then brought to the boiling-point, and filtered again. Average cost, with coffee at Is. 8cZ. per lb., (id. Sufficient.—Allow 2 tablespoonfuls for a breakfast-cupful of hot milk. COFFEE, Nutritious. Ingredients.—^ oz. of gi'ound coffee, 1 pint of milk. Slode.—Let ohe coffee bo freshly groxmd; put it 'un a saucepan with the milk, whicb *!,ould bo made nearly boiling beforo V.na coffee is put in, and boil together foi'd minutes ; clear it by pouring some of it into a cup, and then back again, and leavo it on the hob for a few minutes to settle thoroughly. This coffee may be ma'ln still nioi-e nu- tritious by the addition of an egg well beaten, and put into the coflce-cup. Time.—5 minutes to bni), 5 minutes to settle. Sufficient to make 1 large break- fast-cupful of coffee. 483 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Coffee, Simple Method COFFEE, Simple Method of Making. Ingredients.—Allow § oz., or 1 table- spoonful, of coffee to each person ; to every oz. allow h pint of water. Mode. —Have a small ii-on ring made to fit the top of the coffee-pot inside, and to this ring sew a smaU muslin bag (the muslin for the purpose must not be too thin). Fit the bag into the pot, wai-m the pot with some boiling water; throw this away, and put the ground coffee into the bag; pour over as much boiling water as is required, close the lid, and, when all the water has filtered through, remove the bag, and send the coffee to table. Making it in this manner prevents the necessity of pouring the coffee from one vessel to another, which cools and spoils it. The water should be poured on the coffee gradually, so that the infusion may be stronger ; and the bag must be well made, that none of the grounds may escape thi'ough the seams, and so make the coffee thick and muddy. Sufficient. —Allow 1 tablespoonful, or ^ oz., to each person, COFFEE, to Make. Ingredients.—Allow h oz., or 1 table- spoonful, of ground coffee to each per- son ; to every oz, of coffee allow ^ pint of water. Mode.—To make coffee good, it should never be boiled, but the boiling water merely poured on it, the same as for tea. The coffee should always be purchased in the berry,—if possible, freshly roasted ; and it should never be ground long before it is wanted for use. tOTSEL'S HTDHOSTATIO UniT, There are very many new kinds of coffee- pots, but the method of making the coffee is nearly always the same, namely. Coffee, to make pouring the boiling water on the powder, and alTowing it to filter through. Our illustration shows one of Loysel's Hydro- static Urns, which are admirably adapted for making good and clear cofiee, which should be made in the following man- ner :—Warm the urn with boiling water, remove the lid and movable filter, and place the ground coffee at the bottom of the urn. Put the movable filter over this, and screw the lid, inverted, tightly on the end of the centre pipe. Pour into the inverted lid the above proportion of boiling water, and when all the water so poured has disappeared from the funnel, and made its way down the centre pipe and up again through the ground coffee by hydrostatic pressure, unscrew the lid and cover the urn. Pour back direct into the urn, not throtigh the funnel, one, two, or three cups, according to the size of the percolater, in order to make the infusion of uniform strength; the con- tents wUl then be ready for use, and should run from the tap strong, hot, and clear. The coffee made in these wrna generally turns out very good, and there is but one objection to them,—the coffee runs rather slowly from the tap; this is of no consequence where there is a small party, but tedious where there are many persons to provide for, A remedy for this objection may be suggested, namely, to make the coffee very strong, so that not more than J cup would be required, as the rest would be filled up with milk. Making coffee in filters or percolators does away with the necessity of using isinglass, white of egg, and various other preparations, to clear it. Coffee should always be served very hot, and, if pos- sible, in the same vessel in which it is made, as pouring it from one pot to another cools, and consequently spoils it. Many persons may think that the proportion of water we have given for each oz. of coffee is rather small; it is so, and the coffee produced fi-om it will be very strong; ^ of a cup will be found quite sufficient, which should be filled with nico hot milk, or milk and cream mixed. This is the cafe au lait for which our neighbours over the Channel are so justly celebrated. Should the ordinary method of making coffee bo preferred, use double the quantity of water, and, in pouring it into the cups, put in more coffee and less milk, Sufficient.—¥ov very good coffee, allow ^ oz., or 1 table- spoonful, to perp'ift.84 THE t)ICTIOJlAllY 01? COOKERl?. Coffee, to Roast COFFEE, to Eoast. (A Fsench Kecipe.) It being an acknowledged fact that French coffee is decidedly superior to that made in England, and as the roast- ing of the berry is of great importance to the flavour of the prepai-ation, it will be useful and interesting to know how they manage these things in Franco. In Paris, there are two houses justly cele- brated for the flavour of their coffee,— La Maison Corcellet and La Maison Royer de Ckarires; and to obtain this flavour, before roasting, they add to every 3 lbs. of coffee a piece of butter the size of a nut, and a dessertspoonful of pow- dered, sugar: it is then roasted in the usual manner. The addition of the but- ter and sugar develops the flavour and aroma of the bei-ry ; but it must be borne in mind, that the quality of the butter must bo of the very best description. COLLOPS, Scotch. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast veal, a little butter, flour, \ pint of water, 1 onion, 1 blade of pouncled mace, 1 tableppoonful of lemon-juice, h teaspoonful of finely- minccd lemon-peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonfnl of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the veal the same thickness as for cutlets, rather larger than a crown piece ; flour the meat well, and fry a light brown in butter; dredge again with flour, and add I pint of water, pouring it in by degrees; set it on the lire, and when it boils, add the onion and mace, and let it sinmicr very gently about 4 hour; flavour the gravy with lemon- juice, peel, wine, and ketchup, in the above proportion ; give one boil, and servo. Tims.—^ hour. Seasonable from March to October. COLLOPS, Scotch, White. [Cold Meat Cookeuy.] Ingredients. The remains of cold roast veal, h tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pouudcd mace, cayenne and salt to taste, a little butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, J pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, \ teaspoonful of lemon-peel, 1 table- Bpoonful of mushroom ketchup, 3 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of Bherry. Mode.—Qwt the veal into thin slices about 3 inches in width ; hack them Confectionary with a knife, and grate on them the nut- meg, mace, cayenne, and salt, and fry them in a little butter. Dish them, and make a gravy in the pan by putting in the remaining ingredients. Give one boil, and pour it over the collops ; g.ir- nish with lemon and bHccs of toasted bacon, rolled. Forcemeat balls may bo added to this dish. If cream is not at hand, substitute the yolk of an egg beaten up well with a little milk. Time.—About 5 or 7 minutes. Seasonable from May to October. COMPOTE, A confituro made at the moment of need, and with much less sugar than would be ordinaiily put to preserves. They are very wholesome things, suit- able to most stomachs which cannot ac- commodate themselves to raw fruit or a large portion of sugar: they are the happy medium, and far better than ordi- nary stewed fruit. For Fruit CompCtes refer to the recipes relating to th.e various Fi-uits. COISTFECTIONAEIT. In speaking of confectionary, it should be remarked that many preparations come under that head ; for the various fruits, flowers, herbs, roots, and juices, which, when boiled with sugar, were for- merly emploj'ed in pharmacy as well as for sweetmeat.'', were called confections, from the Latin word conjlcere, ' to make up;' but the term confectionary embraces a very large class indeed of sweet food, many kinds of which should not bo at- tempted in the ordinary cui?ina Tiio thousand and one ornamental dishes that adorn the tables of the wc.ilthy should bo purchased from the confectioner: they cannot profitably be made at homo. Apart from these, cakes, biscuits, and tarts, &c., the class of sweetmeats called confections may be thus classified:— 1. Liquid confects, or fruits either whole or in pieces, preserved hy being im- mersed in a fluid transparent syrup ; as tho liquid confects of apricots, green citrons, and many foreign fruits. 2. Dry confects arc those which, after having been boiled in tho syrup, are taken out and put to dry in an oven, as citron and orange-peel, &c. 3. Marmalade, jams, and p.astes, a kind of soft compounds made of the pulp of fruits or other vcgc. table substances, beat up with sugar orTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 85 Co-w-Heel, Fried honey ; such as oranges, apricots, pears, KG. 4. Jellies are the juices of fruits boiled with sugar to a pretty thick con- sistency, so as, upon cooling, to form a trembling jelly ; as currant, gooseberry, apple jelly, &c. 5. Conserves are a kind of dry conf'ects, made by beating up flowers, fruits, &c., with sugar, not dis- solved. 6. Candies are fruits candied over with sugar after having been boiled in the syrup. COW-HEEL, Fried. Ingredients. — Ox-feet, the yolk of 1 egg, bread crumbs, parsley, salt and cayenne to taste, boiling butter. Mode. —"Wash, scald, and thoroughly clean the feet, and cut them into pieces about 2 inches long ; have i-eady some fine bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsloj', cayenne, and salt; dip the pieces of heel into the yolk of egg, sprinkle them with the bread crumbs, and fry them until of a nice brown in boiling butter. Time.—,| hour. Average cost, &d. each. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Ox-feet may bo dressed in va- rious ways, stewed in gravj-^ or plainly boiled and served with melted butter. When plainly boiled, the liquor will an- swer for making sweet or relishing jel- lies, and also to give richness to soups or gravies. COW-HEEL STOCK, for Jelliea (More Economical than Calf's- Feet). Ingredients.—2 cow-heels, 3 quarts of water, ilode. — Procure 2 heels that have only been scalded, and not boiled ; split them in two, and remove the fat between the claws; wash them well in warm water, and put them into a sauce- pan with the abovo proportion of cold water; bring it gradually to boil, re- move all the scum as it rises, and simmer the heels gently from 7 to 8 hours, or until the liquor is reduced one-half; then strain it into a basin, measuring the quan- tity, and put it in a cool place. Clarify it in the same manner as calfs-fect stock, using, with the otlicr ingredients, about h 07.. of isinglass to each quart. This Htock should be made the day before it is required for use. Two dozen shank- bones of mutton, boiled for 6 or 7 hours, yield a quart of strong firm stock. They should bo put on in 2 quarts of water, which should bo reduced one-half. Make Crab, Hot this also the day before it is required. Time. —7 to 8 hours to boil the cow-heels, 6 to 7 hours to boil the shank-bones. Average cost, from Ad. to Gd. each. Suf ficient.—2 cow-heels should make 3 pints of stock. Seasonalle at any time. COWSLIP WINE, Ingredients.—To every gallon of water allow 3 lbs. of lump sugar, the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, the rind and juice of 1 Seville orange, 1 gallon of cow- slip pips. To every 4^ gallons of wine allow 1 bottle of brandy. Mode.—Boil the stigar and water together for h hour, carefully removing all the scum as it rises. Pour this boiling liquor on the orange and lemon-rinds and the juice, which should be strained; when milk- warm, add the cowslip pips or flowers, picked from the stalks and seeds; and to 9 gallons of wine 3 tablespoonfuls of good fresh brewers' yeast. Let it fer- ment 3 or 4 days, then put all together in a cask with the brandy, and let it remain for 2 months, when bottle it ofif for use. Time.—To be boiled I hour ; to ferment 3 or 4 days ; to remain in the cask 2 months. Average cost, exclusive of the cowslips, which may be picked in the fields, 26-. M. per gallon. Seasonable. Make this in April or May. CRAB, to Choose, The middlc-siucd crab is the best; and the crab, like the lobster, should be judged by its weight; for if light, it is watery, CRAB, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 crab, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 ditto of oil; salt, whito pepper, and cayenne, to taste. Mode.— Empty the shells, and thoroughly mix the meat with tho above ingredients, and put it in the large shell. Garnish with slices of cut lemon and parsley. The quantity of oil may be increased when it is much liked. Average cost, from 30c?. to 2s. Seasonalle all the year ; but not so good in May, June, and J uly. Sufficient for 3 persons. CRAB, Hot. Ingredients.—1 crab, nutmeg, flalt and opper to taste, 3 oz. of butter, ^ lb. of read crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar. Mode. — After having boilod the ETHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 8S Crab Sauce crab, pick tlio meat out from the shells, and mix with it the nutmeg and season- ing. Cut up the butter in small pieces, and add the bread crumbs and vinegar. Mix altogether, put the whole in the largo shell, and brown before the fire or with a salamander. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, from 10(^. to 2s. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. Seasonable all the year; but not so good in May, June, and July. EAB SAUCE, for Fish (equal to Lobster Sauce). Ingredients.— 1 crab; salt, pounded mace, and cayenne to taste; ^ pint of melted butter made with milk. Mode.— Choose a nice fresh crab, pick all the meat away from the shell, and out it into small square pieces. Make ^ pint of melted butter, put in the fish and sea- soning ; let it gradually warm through, and simmer for 2 minutes: it should not boil. Average cost, Is. 2d. CBAYFISH. Crayfish should be thrown into boiling water, to which has been added a good seasoning of salt and a little vinegar. When done, which will be in ^ hour, take them out and drain them. Let them cool, arrange them ou a napkin, and garnish with plenty of double par- sley. JYote.—This fish is frequently used for garnishing boiled turkey, boiled fowl, calf's head, turbot, and all lands of boiled fish. CBAYFISH, Potted. Ingredients. —100 crayfish ; pounded mace, pepper, and salt to taste; 2 oz. butter. Mode.—Boil the fish in salt and watei', pick out all the meat, and pound it in a mortar to a paste. Whilst pound- ing, add the butter gradually, and mix in the spice and seasoning. Put it in small iDots, and pour over it clarified butter, carefully excluding the air. Time, —15 minutes to boil the crayfish. Avei-- age cost, 2s. 9d. Seasonable all the year. CBAYFISH SOUP. Ingredients.—CO ci-ayfish, lb. of but- ter, t) anchovies, the crumb of 1 French roll, a little lobster-spawn, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock, or fish stock. Mode. — Shell the crayfish, and put the fish between two plates until they Cream, Devonshire are wanted ; pound the shells in a mor- tar with the butter and anchuvies ; when well beaten, add a pint of sUjck, and sinimerfor ^of an hour. Strain it through a hair sieve, put the remainder of the stock to it, with the crumb of the roU; give it one boil, and rub it through a tammy, with the lobster-spawn. Put in the fish, but do not let the soup boil after it has been rubbed through the tammy. If necessary, add seasoning. Time.—1.^ hour. Average cost, 2s. dd. or Is. 9d. per quart. Sufficient for 8 perBona, Seasonable from January to July. CBEAM h. la VALOIS. Ingredients. — 4 sj^onge cakes, jam, f pint of cream, sugar to taste, the juice of ^ lemon, ^ glass of sherry, 1| oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Cut the sponge-cakes into thin slices, place two together with presei-ve between them, and pour over them a small quantity of sherry mixed with a little -brandy. Sweeten and fla- vour the cream with the lemon-juice and sherry; add the isinglass, which should be dissolved in a little water, and beat up the cream well. Place a little in an oiled mould ; airange the pieces of cake in the cream, then fiU the mould with the remainder, let it cool, and turn it out on a dish. By oihng the mould the cream will have a much smoother appear- ance, and will turn out more easily than when merely dipped in cold water. Aver- age cost, 3s. Qd. Sufficient to fill a 1^ pint mould. Seasonable at any time. CHE AM CHEESE. Cream cheese should be served on a d'oyley, and garnished either with water- cresses or parsley ; of the former, a plen- tiful supply should be given, as they add greatly to the appearance of the dish, besides imi^roving the flavour of the cheese. CKEAM, Devonshire. The milk should stand 24 hours in tho wintet, half that time when the weather is very warm. The milkpan is then set on a stove, and should there remain until the milk is quite hot; but it must not boil, or there will bo a thick skin on the surface. When it is sufficiently done the und» lations on the surface look thick, and 6ma.ll rings appear. The time re- quired for scalding cream dnpends on87 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Cream, Italian the size of the pan and the heat of the fire, but the slower it is done the better. The pan should be placed in the dairy when the cream is sufficiently scalded, and skimmed the following day. This cream is so much esteemed tliat it is sent to the London markets in small square tins, and is exceedingly delicious eaten with fresh fruit. In Devonshire, butter is made from this cream, and is usually rery firm. CEEAM, Italian. Ingredients.—^ pint of milk, i pint of cream, sugar to taste, 1 oz. of isinglass, 1 lemon, the yolks of 4 eggs. Mode.— Put the cream and milk into a saucepan, with sugar to sweeten, and the lemon- rind. Boil until the milk is well fla- voured, then strain it into a basin and add the beaten yolks of eggs. Put this mixture into a jug, place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, md stir the contents until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil. Take the iream off the fire, stir in the lemon-juice ind isinglass, which should bo melted, j.nd whip well; fill a mould, place it in •ce if at hand, and, when set, turn it out 3n a dish, and garnish as taste may dic- ;ate. The mixture may be whipped and Irained, and then put into small glasses, vhen this mode of serving is preferred. Time.—Fi-om 5 to 8 minutes to stir the fixture in the jug. Average cost, with ;he best isinglass, 2s. Qd. Sufficient to ill 1^ pint mould. Seasonable at any iime. SEE AM SAUCE, for Fish or White Dishes. Ingredients.—\ pint of cream, 2 oz. of )utter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, salt and xxyenne to taste; when liked, a small quantity of pounded mace or lemon-juice. ilode.—Put the butter in a very clean laucepan, dredge in the flour, and keep ihaking round till the butter is melted. \dd the seasoning and cream, and stir he whole till it boils; let it just simmer "or 5 minutes, when add either pounded nace or lemon-juice to taste to give it a lavour. Time.—5 minutes to simmer. iverage cost for this quantity, 7d. Note.—This sauce may bo flavoured *ith very finely-shredded shalot. ;3IIEAM, Stone, of tons les Mois. ingredunU.—ji Iti of preserve, 1 pint Cream, Vanilla of milk, 2 oz. of lump sugar, 1 heaped tablespoonful of tous les mois, 3 drops of essence of cloves, 3 drops of almond- flavouring. Mode. —Place the preserve at the bottom of a glass dish ; put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and make it boil. Mix to a smooth batter the tous les mois with a very little cold milk ; stir it briskly into the boiling milk, add the flavouring, and simmer for 2 minutes. When rather cool, but before turning solid, pour the cream over the jam, and ornament it with strips of red-currant jelly or preserved fruit. Time. —2 minutes. Average cost, lOrf. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. CKEAM, Swiss. Ingredients.—| lb. of macaroons or 6 small sponge-cakes, sherry, 1 pint of cream, 5 oz. of lump sugar, 2 large table- spoonfuls of arrowroot, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of ^ lemon, 3 table- spoonfuls of milk. Mode.—Lay the ma- caroons or sponge-cakes in a glass dish, and pour over them as much sherry as will cover them, or sufficient to soak them well. Put the cream into a lined sauce- pan, with the sugar and lemon-rind, and let it remain by the side of the fire until the cream is well flavoured, when take out the lemon-rind. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cold milk ; add this to the cream, and let it boil gently for about 3 minutes, keeping it well stu-red. Take it off the fire, stir till nearly cold, when add the lemoii-juice, and pour the whole over the cakes. Garnish the cream with strips of angelica, or candied citron cut thin, or bright-coloured jeUy or preserve. This cream is exceedingly delicious, fla- voured with vanilla instead of lemon: when this flavouring is used the sherry may be omitted, and the mixture poured over the dry cakes. Time.—About h hour to _ infuse the lomon-rind ; 5 minutes to boil the cream. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 3s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. CREAM, Vaniila. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of isinglass, flavouring to taste of essence of vanilla. JiocZe.—Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and let it get hot over a slow fire; beat up the yolks of the eggs, to which add gradually the sweetened milk jTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 88 Cream, Whipped flavour the whole with essence of vanilla, put the mixture into a juf?, and place this ]ug in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the contents with a wooden spoon one way until the mLxture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will bo full of lumps. Take it off the fire; stir in the i singlass, w li i c h should be p roviously VANILLA-CBEAM MOULD. disSolvcd in about | pint of water, and boiled for 2 or 3 minutes ; pour the cream into an oiled mould, put it in a cool place to set, and turn it out carefully on a dish. In- stead of using the essence of vanilla, a pod may be boiled in the milk until the flavour is well extracted. A pod, or a pod and a half, will be found suf- ficient for the above proportion of in- gredients. Time,—About 10 minutes to Btir the mixture. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 2s. M. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. CREAM, "Whipped, for putting on Trifles, serving in Glasses, &c. Ingredients.—To every pint of cream allow 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 1 glass of sherry or any kind of sweet white wine, the rind of h lemon, the white of 1 egg. Mode.—Rub the sugar on the lemon- rind, and pound it in a mortar until quite fine, and beat up the white of the egg until quite stiff ; put the cream into a largo bowl, with the sugar, wine, and beaten egg, and whip it to a froth; as fast a.s the froth rises take it off with a PASTRT-LBAF. skimmer, and p\it it on a sieve to drain in a cool place. This should bo made the day before it is wanted, as the whip is ^hen so much firmer. The cream should ie whipped in a cool place, and in sum- Crust, Common mer over ice, if it is obtainable. A jjlaii whipped cream may be served on a glas: dish, and garnished with strips of angc lica, or pastry-leaves, or pieces of bnght coloured jelly : it makes a very prett,' i addition to the supper-table. Tine.-- About 1 hour to whip the cream. A verag^ cost, with cream at \s. per pint, 1*. Sufficient for 1 dish or 1 trifle. Seutonabi at any time. CRUMPETS. These are made in the same manner am muffins, only, in making the mixture let it be more like batter than dough Let it rise for about h hour; pour it int( iron rings, which should bo ready on i hot-plate; bake them, and when one sid( appears done, turn them quickly on tht j other. To toast diem, have ready a ven bright clear fire; put the crumpet on i j toasting-fork, and hold it before the fire-, not too close, until it is nicely brown or one side, but do not allow it to blacken turn it, and brown the other side; thei spread it with good butter, cut it in half and, when all are done, pile them on £ hot dish, and send them quickly to table. Muffins and crumpets should always ha i served on separate dishes, and botlh toasted and served as expeditiously ar i possible. Time.—From 10 to 15minutc! to bake them. Svfficient.—AUow 2 crum pets to each person. CRUST, Cutter, for Boiled Pudi dings. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour a! low 6 oz. of butter, h pint of water; Mode.—Wiih a knife, work the flour t( a smooth paste with .3 pint of water ; rol the crust out rather thin ; place thci butter over it in small pieces, dredpc' lightly over it some flour, and fold tht paste over; repeat the rolling once more, and the crust will be ready for use. 11' may bo enriched by adding anothen 2 oz. of butter ; but, for ordinary pur- poses, the above quantity will bo found quite sufficient. Average cost, 6d. per lb. CRUST, Common, for Raised Pies." Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al-i low h pint of water, Ih oz. of butter,- l.\ oz. of lard, ^ sultspoonful of salt. Mode.—Put into a saucepan the water ; when it boils, add the butter and lard,'■ and when these are melted, make a hol6>89 THE DICTIONARY 01? COOKEUY. Crast, Dripping ^ 1 the midtlle of tho flour; pour in the ; -ator gi-adually, beat it well with a > ooden spoon, and be particidar in nob ■Making tho pasto too soft. When it is !• oil mixed, knead it with the hnnds mil quite stiff, dredging a little flour - i-cr the paste and board to prevent them i -om sticking. When it is well kneaded, . lace it before the fire, with a cloth '■'i )verod over it, for a few minutes ; it will J en bo more easily worked into shape. liis paste docs not taste so nicely as richer one, but it is worked with •eater facility, and answers just as well ' r raised pies, for the crust is seldom ^ iten. Average cost, 5d. per lb. I RUST, Dripping, for Kitchen Pud- dings, Pies, &c. i: Ingrecllenta.—To every lb. of flour al- ■ w 6 oz. of clarified beef dripping, ^ pint ;i water. Mode.—After having clarified •e, e dripping, weigh it, and to every lb. 03 flour allow tho above proportion of d; ipping. With a kuife, work the flour ;-. to a smooth paste with tiro water, roll- li J it out three times, each time placing 1 i the crust 2 oz. of tlie dripping broken i to small pieces. If this paste is lightly ii vdo, if good dripping is used, and not ■■ I much of it, it will be found good ; and J tho addition of two tablespoonfuls of ■i e moist sugar, it may be converted .0 a common short crust for fruit pies. •erage cost, 4d. per lb. i :iUST, Lard or Plead. Inm-edients.—To every lb. of^ flour al- V fj lb. of lard or flead, }. pint of water, altspoonful of salt. Mode.—C\ea.v iho id from skin, and slice it into thin <es; rub it into the flour, add the t, and work tho whole into a smooth ite, with the abovo proportion of ■ ter; fold tho pasto over two or three ■ les, beab it well with tho rolling-pin, . 1 it out, and it will be ready for use. ■. 0 crust made from this will bo found •, ;remcly light, and may be m.ade into :es or tarts ; it may also bo very much . -iched by odiling moro flead to tho • no proportion of flour. Avcn-ce cost, per lb. ji lUST, Suet, for Pics or Paddings. 'noredtents.—To every lb. of flour al- '• ' 5or G oz. of l)ccf .suet, i*.pintof wator. ! <de. — Frco the suet from skin and Crust, good Short shreds, chop it extremely tine, and rub it well into the flour; work tho whole to a smooth paste with the abovo propor- tion of water ; roll it out, and it is ready for use. This crust is quite rich enough for ordinary purposes, but when a better one is desired, use from ^ to ^ lb. of suet to every lb. of flour. Some cooks, for rich crusts, pound the suet in a mortar, with a small quantity of butter. It should then be laid on the paste in small pieces, the same as for puff-crust, and will be found exceedingly nice for hot tarts. 5 oz. of suet to every lb. of flour will make a very good crust; and even ^ lb. will answer very well for children, or ■where tho crust is wanted very plain. A verage cost, 5d. per lb. CRUST, Common Short. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al- low 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 oz. of butter, about i pint of boiling milk. Mode.— Crumble the butter into the flour as finely as possible, add the sugar, and work the whole up to a smooth paste with tho boiling milk. Roll it out thiu, and bake in a moderate oven. Average cost, 6d. per lb. CHUST, Very good Short for Fruit Tart.g. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al- low^ or ^ lb. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of sifted sugar, ^ pint of water. Mode.— Rub the butter into the flour, after having ascertained that the latter is perfectly dry ; add the sugar, and mix the whole into a stiff pasto with about ^ pint of water. Roll it out two or three times, folding the pasto over each time, and it will be ready for use. A verage cost, Is. Id. per lb. CRUST, Another good Short. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al- low a oz. of butter, tho yolks of 2 eggg, 2 oz of sifted sugar, about .| pint of milk. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour, add tlie sugar, and mix the whole as lightly as po.-siblo to a smooth paste, with tho yolks of tho eggs well beaton, and the milk. Tho pro])ortion of tho Iht.ter in- gredient must bo judged of by the size of tho ogg,:;; if these are largo st much will not ho ronuirod, aild more if th» eggs arc smaller. A vcrorje cost, Is. per lb.so THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Cucumber Sauce CUCUMBER SAUCE. Ingredients.—Z or 4 cucumbers, 2 oz. of butter, G tablespoonfuls of brown ^rrnvy. Mode. — Peel the cucumbers, quarter tliem, and take out the seeds; cut them into small pieces, put them in a cloth, and rub them well to take out the water that hangs about them. Put the butter in a saucepan, add the cu- cumbers, and shake them over a sharp fii'c until they are of a good colour ; then pour over them the gravy, mixed with the cucumbers, and simmer gently for 10 minutes, when it will be ready to serve. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. CUCUMBER SAUCE, White. Ingredients.—3 or 4 cucumbers, h pint of white stock, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Cut the cucumbers into small pieces, after i^eel- ing them and taking out the seeds. Put them in the stewpan with the white stock and seasoning; simmer gently till the cucumbers are tender, which will be in about \ hour. Then add the yolks of tho eggs, well beaten; stir them to the sauce, but do not allow it to boil, and serve vei-y hot. Time.—Altogether, h hour. CUCUMBER SOUP (French Re- cipe). higredients.—1 large cucumber, apiece of butter the size of a walnut, a little chervil and sorrel cut in largo pieces, salt and popper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream, 1 quart of medium stock. Mode.—Pare the cucumber, qxiar- 1,er it, and take out the seeds ; cut it in thin slices, put these on a plate with a little salt, to draw the water from them ; drain, and put them in your stewpan v/ith tho butter. When they are warmed through, without being browned, pour the stock on them. Add the soitcI, cher- and seasoning, and boil for 40 mi- nutes. Mix the well-beaten yolks of the eggs with the cream, which add at tho moment of serving. T'irae. — 1 hour. A verage cost, Is. 2d. per quart. Sufficient for 4 persons. <Sea507ia6^e from June to Sejitembor. CUCUMBER VIISTEGAR (a very nice addition to Salads). Ingrediejits.—10 largo cucumbers, or 12 smaller ones, 1 quart of vinegar, 2 Cucumbers, to Dress onions, 2 shalots, 1 tablespoonful of sa 2 tablespoonfuls of pepper, ^ teaspoonl of cayenne. Mode.—Pare and slice t cucumbers, put them in a stone jar wide-mouthed bottle with tho vinega slice the onions and shalots, and a< them, with all the other ingredients, the cucumbers. Let it stand 4 or 5 daj boil it all up, and, when cold, strain t liquor through a piece of muslin, ai store it away in small bottles well scale This vinegar is a very nice addition gravies, hashes, &c., as well as a grc improvement to salads, or to eat wi cold meat. CUCUMBERS, to Dress. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of .=ala oil, 4 tablesjjoonfuls of vinegar, s-alt a pepper to taste. Mode.—Pare the c cumber, cut it equally into very tit CUCUMBEB-SLICES. slices, and commence cutting from t Ikick end; if commenced at the stal the cucumber will most likely have exceedingly bitter taste, far from agit able. For the purpose of slicing oiciii hers evenly and very thin, we rccomme: the slice in preference to an ordinn knife. Put the slices into a dish, spriul over salt and pepper, and pour over oil and vinegar in tho above pro- portion ; turn SLICED CUCrMBEHS. the cucumber about, and it is ready servo. This is a fiivourito accompai ment to boiled salmon, is a nice additi' to all descriptions of salads, and niak a pretty garnish to lobster salad. ^1 v( CKje cost, when scarce. Is. to 2.?. tn/ when cheapest, may be had for \d. eac Sea.tonahle.—Yorcedi from the bcginni: of March to tho end of Juno; in full sc eon in July, August, and September.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 91 Cucumbers, Fried CUCUMBERS, Fried. Ingredients.—2 or 3 cucumbei's, pepper and salt to taste, flour, oil or butter. Mode.—Pare the cucumbers, and cut them into slices of an equal thickness, commencing to slice from the thick and not the stalk end of the cucumber. Wipe the slices dry with a cloth, dredge them with flour, and put them into a pan of boiling oil or butter ; keep turning them about until brown ; lift them out of the pan, let them drain, and serve, piled lightly in a dish. These will be found a great improvement to rump-steak: they should be placed on a dish with the steak on the top. Time.—5 minutes. Average cod, when cheapest, Id. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.—Forced from the beginning of March to the end of June; in full season in July and August. CUCUMBERS &, la Poulette. Ingredients. — 2 or 3 cucumbers, salt and vinegar, 2 oz. of butter, flour, h pint of broth, 1 teaspoonful of minced parslo)', a lump of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Pare and cut the cucumbers into slices of an equal thickness, and let them remain in a pickle of salt and vinegar for ^ horn-, then drain them in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with the butter. Fry them over a brisk fire, but do not brown them, and tlien dredge over them a little flour; add the broth, skim off all the fat, which will rise to the surface, and boil gently until the gravy is somewhat reduced, but the cucumber should not be broken. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, add the parsley, sugar, and a seasoning of pepper and salt ; bring the whole to the point of loiling, and serve. Time.—Altogether, hour. Average cost, when cheapest, \d. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Sea- ^ mialle in July, August, or September; 3ut may be had, forced, from the begin- ling of March. CUCUMBERS, Pickled. Ingredients. —1 oz. of whole pepper, I oz. of bruised ginger, sufficient vinegar ;o cover the cucumbers. Mode.—C\xi the :ucumbers in thick slices, sprinkle salt )ver them, and let them remain for 24 lours. The next day, drain them well "or 6 hours, put them into a jar, pour soiling vinegar over them, and keep them Cucumbers, German Method in a warm, place. In a short time, boil up the vinegar again, add pepper and ginger in the above proportion, and in- stantly cover them up. Tie them down with bladder, and in a few days they will be fit for use. CUCUMBERS, an excellent way of Preserving. Ingredients.—Salt and water, 1 lb. of lump sugar, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 oz. of ginger, cucumbers. Mode.—Choose the greenest cucumbers, and those that are most free from seeds ; put them in strong salt and wat^, with a. cabbage-leaf to keep them down; tie a paper over them, and put them in a warm place till they are yellow, then wash them and set them over the fire in fresh water with a very little salt, and another cabbagc-lcaf over them ; cover very closely, but take caro they do not boil. If they are not a fine green, change the water again, cover them as before, and make them hot. When they are a good colour take them off the fire and let them cool; cut them in quarters, take out the seeds and pulp, and put them into cold water ; let them remain for 2 days, changing the water twice each daj', to draw out the salt. Put the sugar, with | pint of water, in a saucepan over the fire ; remove the scum as it rises, and add the lemon-peel and ginger with the outside scraped off; when the syrup is tolerably thick, take it off the fire, and when cold, wipe the cucum- bera dry and put them in. Boil the syrup once in 2 or 3 days for 3 weeks ; strengthen it if reqim-ed, and let it be quite cold before the cucumbers are ]:)ut in. Great attention must be paid to tho directions in the commencement of this recipe, as, if these are not properly car- ried out, the result will be far from satis- factory. Seasonable.—This recipe should be used in June, July, or August. CUCUMBERS, German Method of keeping for Winter use. Ingredients.—Cucumbers, salt. Mode. —Pare and slice the cucumbers (as for the table), sprinkle well with salt, and lot them remain for 24 hours ; strain off the liquor, pack in jars, a thick layer of cucumbers and salt alternately; tie down closely, and, when wanted for use, take out the quantity required. Now wash them well in fresh water, and02 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Cucumbers, Stewed dross as usual with popper, vinegar, and oil. CUCUMBEBS, Stewed. Ingredients.—3 largo cucumbers, flour, butter, rather more than ^ pint of good brown gravy. Mode.—Cut tho cucum- bers lengthwise tho size of tho dish they ire intended to bo served in ; empty t.hem of the seeds, and put them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them simmer for 5 minutes; then take them out, place them in another stew- pan, with the gravy, and let them boil over a brisk fire until the cucumbers are tender. Should these bfl bitter, add a lump of sugar; carefully dish them, skim tho sauce, pour over the cucum- bers, and serve. Time.—Altogcthor, 20 minutes. Averacfe cost, when cheapest, \d. each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August; but may be had, forced, from the be- ginning of March. CUCUMBERS, Stewed with Onions Ingredients. —6 cucumbers, 3 moderate- sized onions, not quite 1 pint of white stock, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, a very little grated nut- meg. Mode.—Pare and slice tlie cucum- bers, take out the seeds, and cut the onions into thin slices ; put these both into a stcwpan, with the stock, and let them boil for ^ hour or longer, should the cucumbers be very large. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs; stir these into the sauce ; add the cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg; bring it to tho point of boiling, and sei've. Do not allow the sauce to boil, or it will curdle. This is a favourite dish with lamb or mutton chops, rump- steaks, &;c. Time.—Altogether, 20 mi- nutes. Average cost, when cheaiiest, ItZ. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Sea- tenable in July, August, and September; but may be had, forced, from tho begin- ning of March. CURRANT DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, ^ lb. of currants, rather more than A pint of water. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix it with the flour, and add tho currants, which should bo nicely washed, fucked, and dried ; mix tho whole to a imp paste with the water (if wanted very nice, use milk); divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings; tie thorn in cloths, and Cui'rant Jam, Black. boil for l\ hour. They may bo boiled without a cloth : they should then bo made into round balls, and dropped into boiling water, and should bo moved abinit at first, to prevent them fiom sticking to the bottom of tlie saucepan. Serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and sifted sugar. Time.—In a cloth, 1.^ hour; with- out, "4 hour. Average cost, i)d. Suffiicienl' for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. CURRANT FRITTERS. Ingredients.—h pint of milk, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoon-- fuls of boiled rico, 3 tablespoonfuls of"' currants, sugar to taste, a very litLlo grated nutmeg, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Put the milk into a. basin with the flour, which should pre-- viously bo rubbed to a smooth batter: * with a little cold milk ; stir these in- - ' gredients together; add the well-whiskcJ , eggs, the rice, currants, sugar, and nut- meg. Beat the mixture for a few mi-- nutes, and, if not sufficiently thick, add r. little more boiled rice ; drop it, in smaL i quantities, into a pan of boiling lard on m clarified dripping; fry the fritters a nicefl brown,-and, when done, drain them ontM piece of blotting-paper, before tho firoj. Pile them on a white d'oyley, strew ovei r sifted sugar, and servo them very hot . Send a cut lemon to table with them/;. Time.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry tht< fritters. Average cost, dd. Sufficient loi* 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time.. CURRANT JAM, Black. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit-, weighed before being stripped from thi stalks, allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 gill o water. Mode.—Let the fruit bo ven ; ripe, and gathered on a drj' day. Su i; it from the stalks, and put it into a pre serving-pan, with a gill of water to cacl lb. of fruit; boil the.<;e together for 1 j minutes ; then add tho sugar, and Ix^i ^ the jam again for 30 minutes, rcekonin; . from the time when tho jam simmer equally all over, or longer, should it no appear to set nicely when a little i poured on to a plate. Keep stirring i to prevent it from burning, carefuil . remove all tho scum, and when done pour it into pots. Let it cool, cover lb top of the jam with oiled paper, and th ' ■ top of tho jai-s with a piece of ti.ssuc ■' " paper bnisbed over on both sides wit'.' 1THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 93 Currant Jam, Eed the whito of an egg: this, when cold, forms a hard stiff cover, and perfectly excludes the air. Great attention must be paid to the stirring of this jam, as it is vciy liablo to burn, on account of the thickness of the juice. Time.—10 mi- nutes to boil the fruit and water ; 30 minutes with the sugar, or longer. A verarje cost, from 6d. to 8d. for a pot capable of holding lib. Sufficient.— Allow from 6 to 7 quarts of currants to make 1 dozen pots of jam, each pot to hold 1 lb. SeasonoMe.—lA.!\kQ this in July. IcUBEAITT JAM, Hed. Inrjralicnts.—To every lb. of fruit al- low ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Let the bruit bo gathered on a fine day ; weigh it, and then strip the currants from the stalks; put them into a preserving-pan kith sugar in the above proportion ; stir them, and boil them JAM JAM-POT. for* about f hour. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Put the jam into pots, and, when cold, cover with oiled papers ; over these put a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on loth sides with the whito of an egg; |ress the paper round tho top of the pot, id, when dry, the covering will bo quite ird and air-tight. Time.—^ to ^ hour, ^ckoning from the time the jam boils all s-er. Averofje cost, for a lb. pot, from to ?>d. Svfficienl.—Allow from 6 to 7 Liarts of currants to make 12 1-lb. pots jam. Seasonable.—Make this in July. UBBANT JELLY, Black. 7K^re-:?i'cni5.—Blackcurrants; to every nt of juice allow { pint of water, 1 lb loaf sugar. Mode.—Strip the currants )m the stalks, which may be done in expeditious manner, by holding the nch in one hand, and passing a small vcr fork down the currants : they will n readily fall from the stalks. Put m into a jar, place this jar in a sauce- D of boiling water, and simmer them til their juice is extracted; then strain m, and to every pint of juice allow above proportion of sugar and water; these ingredients together cold until s'ugai is dissolved; place the pre- Ctirrant Jelly, Bed serving-pan on the fire, and boil the jelly for about ^ hour, reckoning from the time it commences to boil all oyer, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. If the jelly becomes firm when a little is put on a plate, it is done ; it should then be put into small pots, and covered the same as the jam in the preceding recipe. If the jelly is wanted very clear, the fruit should not be squeezed dry; but, of coiu'se, so much juice wiU not be ob- tained. If the fruit is not much squeezed, it may be converted into a jam for im- mediate eating, by boiling it with a littlo common sugar: this answers very well for a nursery preserve. Time.—About ^ hour to extract the juice ; ^ hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, from 8d. to IQd. per h-lh. pot. ' Sitfficieiit.—From 3 pints to 2"quarts of fruit should yield a pint iuice. Seasonable.—Make this in July. CUBBANT JELLY, Bed. Ingredients.—Eed currants ; to every pint of juice allow f lb. of loaf sugar, ./l/ocie.—Have the fruit gathered in fine weather; pick it from the stalks, put it into a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and let it sim- mer gently until the juice is well drawn from the currants; then strain them through a jelly-bag or fine cloth, and if the jelly is wished very clear, do not squeeze them too much, as the skin and pulp from the fruit will be pressed through with tho juice, and so make the jelly muddy. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow ^ lb of loaf sugar ; put these into a preserving-pan, set it over the fire, and keep stirring the jelly until it is done, carefully removing every particle of scum as it rises, using a wooden or silver spoon for the purpose, as metal or iron ones would spoil the colour of tho jelly. When it has boiled from 20 minutes to ^ hour, put a little of the jelly on a plate, and if firm when cool, it is done. Take it off the fire, pour it into smaU gallipots, cover each of the pots with an oiled paper, and then wit<h a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Labol the pots, adding the year when tho jelly was made, and store it away in a dry place. A jam mr.y be madg with the currants, if they are not squeczcil too dry, by adding a few fresh raspberries, and boiling all together, with sufiicient sugarTHE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 91 Currant Jolly, White to swGotcn it nicely. As this jam is not worth storing away, but is only for immodiato eating, a smaller proportion of sugar than usual will bo found enough: it answers very well for chil- dren's puddings, or for a nursery pre- serve. Time.—From f to 1 hour to extract the juico; '20 minutes to ^ hour to boil the jolly. Average cost,' from 8d. to lOc^. per ^-Ib. pot. Sufficient — 8 quarts of currants will make fi'om 10 to 12 pots of jelly. Seasonable.—Make this in July. JVole.—Should the above proportion of sugar not be found sufficient for some tastes, add an extra ^ !b. to every pint of juice, making altogether lib. CimRANT JELLY, WMte. Ingredients.—White currants; to every pint of juice allow |lb. of good loaf sugar. Mode.—Pick the currants from the stalks, and put them into a jar; place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer until the juice is well drawn from the fruit, which will be in from ^ to 1 hom\ Then strain the currants through a fine cloth or jelly- bag ; do not squeeze them too much, or the jelly will not be clear, and put the juice into a very clean preserving-pan, with the sugar. Let this simmer gently over a clear fire until it is firm, and keep stirring and skimming until it is done; then pour it into small pots, cover them, and store away in. a dry place. Time.— hour to draw the juice ; ^ horn* to boil the jelly. Average cost, from Sd. to-lOc^. per ^-Ib. pot. Sufficient.—From 3 pints to 2" quarts of fruit should yield 1 pint of juice. Seasonable in July and August. CURRANT PUDDING, Boiled (Plain and Economical). Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, ^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of currants, milk. Mode.— Wash the currants, dry them thoroughly, and pick away any stalks or grit; chop the suet finely; mix all the ingredients together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding into a stifif batter; tie it up in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for 3.J hours; serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and sifted uugar. Time.—Zl hours. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 7 or 8 jpersona. Seasonable at any time. Currant and Raspberry Tart CURRANT PUDDING, Black oi Red. Ingredients.—1 quart of red or blacl currants, measured with the stalks, ^ lb of moist sugar, suet crust or butter eras (see recipes for Crusts). Mode.—llnke with I lb. of flour, either a suet crust o. butter crust (the former is usually made) butter a basin, and line it with par of the crust; add the currants, whicl should be stripped from the stalks, an( sprinkle the sugar over them; put th cover of the pudding on; make th edges very secure, that the juice doe not escape; tie it down with a floure-. cloth, put it into boihng water, and bo: from 2^ to 3 hours. Boiled without basm, allow ^ hour less. We hav given rather a large proportion of si gar; but we find fruit puddings are much more juicy and palatable whe well sweetened before they are boiled besides being more economical. A fe raspberries added to red-currant puc ding aro a very nice addition ; about pint would be sufficient for the abo\ quantity of fruit. Fruit puddings at very delicious if, when they are tume out of the basin, the crust is browne with a salamander, or put into a vei hot oven for a few minutes to colour i this makes it crisji on the surfac Tiine.—2 A to 3 hours; without a basi 2 to 2.J hours. Average cost, in fi season, Sd. Sufficient for 6 or 7 person Seasonable in June, July, and August. CURRANT AND RASPBERR TART, Red. Ingredients.—Ih pint of picked cu rants, h pint of raspberries, 3 heape tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, ^ lb short crust. Mode.—Strip the currau from the stalks, and put them into deep pie-dish, with a small cup placi in the midst, bottom upwards ; aild tl raspberries and sugar; place a border paste round the edge of the dish, cov with crust, ornament the edges, ai bak^ from i to 3 hour; strew sor sifted sugar over oefore being sent table. This tart is more generally servi cold than hot. Time.—^ to f hoi Average cost. Is. Sufficient for 5 or persons. Seasonable iii Juno, July, ai August. iVote.—In tarts of this description cai fully avoid wasliing the frait.a:HE DICTlONAEY OF COOKER"?. Currants, Iced CUBBANTS, Iced, for Dessert. Ingredients.—^ pint of water, the whites of 2 eggs, currants, pounded sugar. Mode.—Select very fine bunches of red or white currants, and well beat the whites of the eggs. Mix these with the water; then talce the currants, a bimch at a time, and dip them in; let them drain for a minute or two, and roll them in very fine-pounded sugar. Lay them to dry on paper, when the sugar will crystallize round each ciurant, and have a very pretty effect. All fresh fruit may be prepared in the same man- ner ; and a mixture of various fruits iced in this manner, and arranged on one dish, looks very well for a summer dessert. Time.—| day to dry the fruit. Average cost, Sd. for a pint of iced cur- rants. Seasonable in summer. CUBBY. Ingredients. —VeaJ, mutton, fowl, or rabbit; a large onion, butter, brown gi'avy or stock, a tablespoonful of curry- powder. Mode.—Let the meat be half fried. Cut the onion into small pieces, and fry it in butter till quite brown ; add the meat, with a small quantity of brown gravy or stock, also the cm-ry-powder, and stew all for about 20 minutes. This is for a dry curry; more gravy and curry- powder can be used if preferred. Time, —20 minutes. Seasonable at any time. CUBBY ST. LEOWABDS. Ingredients.—Chicken, or any meat; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoon- fuls of curry-powder, 4 or 5 leaves of mint, a teacup of good gravy, salt, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, 3 tablespoon- fuls of cream. Mode.—Fry together for 10 minutes the butter, curry-powder, and mint; then add the meat cut into dice, also the gravy, salt, and vinegar. Let all these simmer for 20 minutes, and then pour over the cream, and serve quite hot. Tinie.—SOminutos. Seasonable at any time. CUBBY-POWDEB (Founded on Dr. Kitchener's Becipe). Ingredients.—^ lb. of coriander-seed, i lb. of turmeric, 2 oz. of cinnamon- seed, .J oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. of mustard, 1 oz. of ground ginger, ^ ounce of all- spice, 2 oz. of fenugreek seed. Mode.— Put all the ingredients in a cool oven. Custards, Boiled where they should remain one night; then pound them in a mortar, rub them through a sieve, and mix thoroughly together; keep the powder in a bottle, from which the air should be completely excluded. CUBBY-POWDEB (Capt. White's Becipe; most excellent). Ingredients.—1 lb. of pale turmeric seed, 4 oz, of cumming seed, 8 oz. of coriander seed, 4 oz. of black pepper, 2 oz. of cayenne pepper, 4 oz. of Jamaica ginger, 10 oz. of caraway seed, \ oz. of cardamums. Mode.—Mix together all these ingredients, well pounded, and then place the mixture in the sun, or before the fire, stirring it frequently. Average cost, 5s. 2d. Note.—This will be found a most excel- lent cm-ry-powder, if care be. taken to purchase the ingredients at a good druggist's. CUSTABDS, BoUed. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 laiu-el-leaves, or the riud of | lemon, or a few drops of essence of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar and which- ever of the above flavourings may be pre- ferred (the lemon-rind flavours custards most deliciously), and let the milk steep by the side of the fire until it is v/ell flavoured. Bring it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a basin; CUSTAEDS IN GLASSBfl. whisk the eggs well, and, when the milk has cooled a little, stir in the eggs, and strain this mixture into a jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; keep stirring the custard one way untH it thickens; but on no account allow it to reach the boiling point, as it will instantly curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, stir in_ the brandy, and when this is well mixed with the custard, pour it into glasses, which should be rather more than three-pai-ts full; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the dish ia ready for table. To make custai-ds lookTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Custard Pudding, Eaked and cat butter, ducks' eygs should be used, when obtainable; they add very much to the flavour and richness, and BO many are not required as of the ordinary eggs, 4 ducks' eggs to the pint of milk making a delicious custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream should bo substituted for tho milk, and double tho quantity of eggs used to those mentioned, omitting tlie whites. Time.—^ hour to inl'use the lemon-rind, about lO minutes to stir the custard. Average cost, Sd. Sujjicient to hli 8 custai-d-glasses. Seasonable at any time. CUSTARD PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—1^ pint of milk, the rind of \ lemon, ^ lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and lemon-rind, and let this inluse for about h hour, or until the milk is well flavoured; whisk tho eggs, yolks and whites; pour the milk to ihem, stirring all the while ; then have ready a pie-dish, lined at the edge with paste ready bukcd ; strain tho custard into the dish, grate a little nutmeg over tho top, and bake in a very slow oven for about ^ hour, or rather longer. The flavour of this pudding may bo varied by substituting bitter almonds for the lemon-rind ; and it may be very much enriched by using half cream and half milk, and doubling the quantity of eggs. Time.—h to ^ hour. Average cost, 'dd. .UniJicienl for i) or G persons. Seasonable at any time. i\oie.—This pudding is usually served cold with fi'uit tarts. CUSTABD PUDDIlSrO, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 table- Rpoouful of flour, 4 eggs, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Flavour the milk by infusing in it a little lemon-rind or cin- namon ; whisk the eggs, stir tho flour gradually to these, and pour over them the milk, and stir tho mixture well. Jiutter a basin that will exactly hold it; put in the custard, and tie a floured cloth over ; plunge it into boiling water, and turn it about for a lew minutes, to prevent tho Hour from settling in one j.art. lioil it slowly for h hour; turn If. out of tho basin, and serve. Tho piidding may bo g.irni.-licd with rcd- minua jelly,' and sweet sauce may be bfut to tai'lu with ir, 'J' nie.—.^ Iinir. Custard Tartlets Average cost. Id. Si'JJicicnt for 5 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. CUSTARD SAUCE, for Sweet Pud- dings or Tarts. Ingredients.—A pint of milk, 2 eggs 3 oz. of pomidccf sugar, 1 tablef:p"ouful of brandy. Mode.—i'ut tho miik in a very clean saucepan, and let it boil. Beat the eggs, stir to them the milk and pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug. Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water; keep stirring well until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Sen'e the sauce in a tureen, stir in the brandy, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. This sauce may be made very much nicer by using cream instead of milk; but the above recipe will be found quite good enough for ordinary purposes. Average cost, Gd. per pint. Sutjicient, this quantity, for 2 fi-uit tarts, or 1 pudding, CUSTARD TARTLETS, or Fan- chonnettes. Ingredients.—For the custard, 4 eggs, f pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls of flour, flavouring to taste ; the whites of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of pounded sugar. , Mode.— Well beat the eggs; stir to them the milk, the butter, which should be beaten to a cream, the sugar, and flour ; mix these ingredients well together, put them into a very clean saucepan, and bring them to tho simmering point, but do not allow them to boil. Flavour with essence of vanilla, bitter almonds, lemon, grated chocolate, or any flavouring ingredient that may be preferred. Lino some round tartlet-pans with good puff-paste; fill them with tho custard, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes; then tako them out of the j-ans ; let: them cool, and in the meantime whisk, the whites of tho eggs to a stiff froth; stir into this tho pounded sugar, and-. sprca<l smoothly over the lai tlcts a little' of this mixture. Put them ia the oven again to ^ct tho icing, but be p.ii-ticular- that they do not scorch; when the icing looks crisp, they arcdouo. Arrangtj thoni, piled high iii tbo ccntix?, on av.-liito iio'ikin, a-.id "garnii-h tin dirh, aiid in bci-rccn tV.e tnrtlefs, v.-iih .c'vii": rf liri^^Lt. jelly, or very (irn ly-ma !c pr-j- i.r. 0. yV/';;f.-.'.'l mi:!-.;;cs *ro h\ko l>i«iCI i or: h Bi CI iTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 97 Cutlet, th.e Invalid's tartlets ; 5 minutes after be'm^ iced. Average cost, exclusive of tlie paste, Is, Siitjicient to '.ill 10 or 12 tiirtlets. Seasoa- ab/e at any time. iVote.—i'lie iciuo^ may be omitted on the top of the tai-tlets, and a spoonful )f any kind of preserve put at the bot- :om of the custard instead : this varies 3oth the flavour and appearance of this lish. DUTLET, tlie Invalid's. Ingredients.—1 nice cutlet from a loin )r neck of mutton, 2 teacupfuls of water, L very small stick of celery, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have the cutlet iut from a very nice loin or neck of nutton ; take off all the fat; put it into I stewpan, with the other ingredients ; itew very gently indeed for nearly 2 hours, md skim off every particle of fat that nay rise to the surface from time to lime. The celery should be cut into thin lices before it is added to the meat, and ai-e must be taken not to put in too nuch of this ingredient, or the dish will lot be good. If the water is allowed to )oil fast, the cutlet will be hard, Tivie. —2 hours' very gentle stewing. Average ost, M, Sufficient for 1 person. Season- 'Me at any time, TCTTLETS, Mutton, Italian. Ingredients.—About 3 lbs, of the neck if mutton, clarified butter, the yolk of egg, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, tablespoonful of minced parsley, 1 tea- poonful of minced shalot, 1 saltspoonful if finely-chopped iemonpeel; pepper, alt, and pounded mace to taste; flour, pint of hot broth or water, 2 teaspoon- uls of Hai-vey's sauce, 1 teaspoonful of oy, 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, tablespoonful of port wine. Mode.— Jut the mutton into nicely-shaped cut- cts, flatten them, and trim off some of he fat, dip them in clarified butter, and hen into the beaten yolk of an egg, SW-x. well together bread crumbs, herbs, )arsley, shalot, lemon-peel, and season- ng in the above proportion, and cover ,lie cutlets with these ingredients. Melt lome butter in a frying-pan, lay in the iutlcts, and try them a nice brown ; take hem out, and keep them hot before the ire. Dredge some flour into the pan, ind, if there is not sufficient butter, add k littiw more; stir till it looks brown, Dampfnudeln then put in the hot broth or water, and the remaining ina-rcdients ; give one boil, and pour round the cutlets. If the gravy should not be thick enough, add a little more flour. Mushrooms, when obtain- able, are a great improvement to this dish, and when not in season, mu.shroom- powder may be substituted for them. Time.—10 minutes; rather longer, should the cutlets be very thick. Average cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. < CUTLETS of Cold Mutton. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients, —The remains of cold loin or neck of mutton, 1 egg, broad • crumbs, brown gravy or tomato sauce. Mode.—Cut the remains of cold loin or neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and take away a portion of the fat, should there be too much ; dip them in beaten egg,- and sprinlvle with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown in hot dripping. Arrange them on a dish, and pour" round them either a good gravy or hot tomato sauce. Time.—About 7 minutes. Seasonable.— Tomatoes to be had most reasonably in September and October. DAMPFNUDELN", or German Puddings. Ingredients.—1 lb, of flour, \ lb. of butter, 5 eggs, 2 small tablespoonfuls of yeast, 2 tablespoonfuls of flnely-pounded sugar, milk, a very little salt. Mode.— Put the flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, into which put the yeast, and rather more than | pint of warm milk ; make this into a batter with the middle of the flour, and let the sponga rise in a warm temperature. When suf- ficiently risen, mix the eggs, butter, sugar, and salt, with a little more warm milk, and knead the whole well together with the hands, beating the dough until it is perfectly smooth, and it drops from the fingers. Then cover the basin with a cloth, put it in a warm place, and wheif. the dough has nicely risen, knead it intt small balls ; butter the bottom of a deep sautd-pan, strew over some pounded sugar, and let the dampfnudeln be laid in, but do not let them touch one an- other ; then pour over sufiiciont nylk to cover them, put on the lid, and let them rise to twice their original size by tho side of the fire. Now place them in tha oven for a few minutes to acquire a nice 4THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Damson Cheese brown colour, aud servo tbem on a nap- kin, with custard sauco Uavoured with vanilla, or a compote of any fruit that may bo preferred. Time.—h to ^ hour >br the sponge to rise; 10 to 15 minutes lor the puddings to rise ; 10 minutes to bake them in a brisk oven. Sufficient for 10 or 12 dampfnudeln. Seasonable at any time, DAMSON CHEESE. Ingredients.—Damsons ; to evei7 lb. of fruit pulp allow k lb. of loaf sugar. Mode. •"-I'ick the stalks from the damsons, and f*>\t them into a preserving-pan ; simmer hem over the fire until they are soft, oc- ■oasionally stu-ring them, then beat them ihrough a coarse sieve, and put the pulp •snd juice into the preserving-pan, with swgar in the above proportion, having previously carefully weighed them. Stir the sugar well in, and simmer the dam- Kons slowly for 2 hours. Skim well, then boil the preserve quickly for ^ hour, or until it looks firm and hard in the spoon; put it quickly into shallow pots, or very tiny earthenware moulds, ?.rid, when cold, cover it ^ith oiled papers, and the jars vvitti tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. A few of the stones ma}' be cracked, and the kernels boiled with the damsons, which very much improves the flavour of the cheese. Time.—1 hour to boil the damsons without the sugar ; 2 hours to simmer them slowly, ^ hour quickly. Average cost, from 8cZ. to lOc^. per ^-Yb. pot. Sufficient.—1 pint of damsons to make a very small pot of cheese. Sea- sonable. — Make this in September or October. DAMSON JAM. Ingredients.—Damsons; to every lb. of fruit allow f lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Have the fruit gathered in dry weather, pick }t over, and reject any that is at all blemished. Stone the damsons, weigh them, and to every lb. allow J lb, of loaf sugar. Put the fruit and sugar into a pre- semng-pan; keep stirrine: them gently \mtil the sugar is dissolved, aud carefully remove the scum as it rises. Boil the jam for about an hour, reckoning from the time it commences to sinnncr all over alike; it must bo well stirred all the time, or it will bo liable to burn and slick >o the pan, which will causo the jam to 4avo a very disagreeable flavour. When Damsons, Baked the jam looks firm, and the juice appears to set, it is done; then take it off the fire, put it into pots, cover it down, when quite cold, with oiled and egged papers, and store it away in a dry place. Time. —1 hour after the jam simmers all over Averarje cost, from Qd. to 8c/. per lb. pot. Siifjicient.—1.^ pint of damsons for a lb. i pot. Seasonable.—Make this in Septom- i ber or October. i DAMSON PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 ^ pint of damsons, \\h. | of moist sugar, 4 lb. of suet or butterr i crust. Mode.—Make a suet crust with, , f lb. of flour by recipe; line a buttered; ^ pudding-basin with a portion of it; fill the basin with the damsons, sweeten, them, and put on the lid; pinch the. , edges of the crust together, that the." juice does not escape ; tie over a floured; cloth, put the pudding into boihng water,. c and boil from 2i to 3 houi-s. Time.— f 2J to 3 hours. Average cost, Sd. Sitffi-- { cient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable im i September and October. ; DAMSON TABT. I Ingredients.—Ih pint of damsons, ^ lb. .1 of moist sugar, h lb. of short or pulf crust. Mode.—Fnt the damsons, with the sugai - between them, into a deep pie-dish, ir i the midst of which place a small cup oi" jar turned upside down; pile the fruil; high in the middle, line the edges of thee dish with short or puff crust, whichever! . may be preferred; put on the cover, or: nament the edges, and bake from ^ to i: hour in a good oven. If puff-crust i! used, abf^'Jt. 10 minutes before the pie i:; done, ta:^? it out of the oven, brush i : over with the white of an egg beaten U a froth with the blade of a knife ; strev ■ some sifted sugar over, and a few drop ; of water, and put the tart back to finisl baking: with short crust, a little plaii sifted sugar, sprinkled over, is all tha will be requii-ed. Time.—h to f hour Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 5 or' persons. Seasonable in September an( October. DAMSONS.Baked.forWinteruse.'' ; Ligrcdienls.—To every it>. of fruit al ' low (j oz. of pounded sugar; melted miit ton suet. Mode.—Chooso sound frviil not too ripe ; pick off the stalks, wcig it, and to every lb. allow the above prei.^99 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Damsons, Compote of. portio7i of pounded sugar. Put the fruit into large dry stono jars, sprinkling the sugar amongst it; cover the jai-s with sauces, place thera in a rather cool oven, and bake the fruit until it is quite ten- der. When cold, cover the top of the fruit with a piece of white paper cut to the size of the jar; pour over this melted mutton suet about an inch thick, and cover the tops of the jars with thick brown paper well tied down. Keep the jai-s in a cool dry place, and the fruit will remain good till the following Christ- mas, but not much longer. Time.—From 5 to 6 hours to bake the damsons in a veiy cool oven. Seasonable in September and October. DAMSONS, Compate of. Ingredients.—1 quai-tof damsons, 1 pint of syrup {see SrRUP). Mode.—Procure sound ripe damsons, pick the stalks from them, and put them into boiling syrup made by the recipe. Simmer them gently until the frait is tender, but not suffi- ciently soft to break ; take them up, boil the syrup for 5 minutes, pour it over the damsons, and serve. This should be sent to table in a glass dish. Time.—About \ hour to simmer the damsons; 5 mi- nutes to boil the symp. Avei'age cost, 9cZ. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Season- able in September and October. DAMSONS, Preserved. Ingredients.—To every quart of dam- sons allow \ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Put the damsons (which should bo picked from the stalks and quite freo from blemishes) into a jar, with pounded sugar sprinkled amongst them in the above proportion; tie the jar closely down, set it in a saucepan of cold water; bring it gradually to boil, and simmer gently until the damsons are soft, without being broken. Let them stand till cold ; then strain the juice from them, boil it up well, strain it through a jelly-bag, and pour it over the fruit. Let it cool, cover with oiled papers, and the jars with tissue- paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and store away in a dry place. Time. —Khowt f hour to Bimmer the fruit after the water boils; ^ hour to boil the juice. Seasonable.— Make this in Soptarober or October, December—Bills of Fare DAMSONS, or any kind of Plums, to Preserve. (Useful in Winter.) Ingredients.—Damsons or plums ; boil- ing water. Mode.—Pick the fruit into clean dry stone jars, taking care to leave out all that are broken or blemished. When full, pour boiling water on the plums, until it stands one inch above the fruit; cut a piece of paper to fit the in- side of the jar, over which pour melted mutton-suet; cover down with brown paper, and keep the jars in a dry cool place. When used, the suet should be removed, the water poured off, and the jelly at the bottom of the jar used and mixed with the fruit. Seasonable in Sep- tember and Octobex". DARIOLES A LA VAJSTILLE. (Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—\ pint of milk, § pint of cream, 2 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of ijounded sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, puff-paste, flavouring of essence of vanilla. Mode.— Mix the flour to a smooth batter, with the milk ; stir in the cream, sugar, the eggs, which should be well whisked, and the butter, which should be beaten to a cream. Put in some essence of vanilla, drop by drop, until the mixture is well flavoured; line some dariole-moulds with pufF-paste, three-parts fill them with the batter, and bake in a good oven from 25 to 35 minutes. Turn them out of the moulds on a dish, without breaking them ; strew over sifted sugar, and serve. The flavouring of the darioles may be varied by substituting lemon, cinnamon, or almonds, for the vanilla. Tme.—25to35minutes. Average cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient to fill 6 or 7 dariole- moulds. Seasonable at any time. DECEMBER-BILLS OP FARE. Dinner for 18 persons. First Course, Mock-Turtle Soup, removed by Cod's Head & Shoulders & and Oyster Sauce. -9 eu Vase of ^ H Flowers, ^ " Julienne Soup, (§ removed by Soles aux iiaes herbes.100 THE DICTIONARY JOF COOKEllV. December—Bills of Fare Second Course, Haunch of Mutton. u* Roast Goose, Ham and Brussels Bprouls, Vase of Ilowera. Game Fie. 'S '•B u a Boiled Turkey and Celery Sauce. -a fe o tc Entries. 1 Fillets of Grouse and Sauce Piquaute. a o a " o en u ried L( Vase of Flowers. "S' ^ "S ^ in o 3 ster. Btreetbreads. O El £ o 302 3 Dinner for 12 persons. First Course.—Game soup; clear ver- micelli soup ; codfish an gratin ; fillets of whitings h la maltre d'hOtul. Entrees. —Filet do ba3uf and sauce piquante ; fri- casseed chicken ; oj'stcr patties ; curried rabbit. Second Course.—RoAst turkey and sausages; boiled log of pork and vegetables ; roast goose ; stewed beef h la Jardinibre. Third Course.—WiUgcon; partridges; Charlotte ftux pommos} December—Dinners for 6 persons. mince pies; orange jelly, lemon cream ; ajijjle tart; cabinet i^udding. Dessert aud ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course. — Mulligatawny soup ; fried slices of codfish ; soles k la ciSme. Entrees.—Croquettes of fowl; pork cut- lets and tomato sauce. Second Course.— Roast ribs of beef ; boiled turkey aud celery sauce ; tongue, garnished ; lark pudding ; vegetables. Third Course.— Eoast hare ; grouse ; plum-pudding ; mince pies ; Charlotte h. la Parisienne ; cheesecakes ; apple tart ; Kesselrode pudding. Dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Carrot soup; crimped cod and oyster sauce ; baked soles. En- trees.—Mutton kidneys k la Fran(;aise; oyster patties. Second Cojirse.—Boiled beef and vegetables ; marrow-bones; roast fowls and water-cresses; tonirue, garnished ; game pie. Third Course.— Partridges; blancmange ; compote of apples; vol-au-vent of pears; almond cheesecakes; lemon pudding. Dessert and ices. Dinners for G persona. First Course.—Rabbit soup ; brill and shrimp sauce. Entrees.—Curried fowl; oyster patties. Second Course.—Roast turkey and sausages ; boiled leg of pork ; vegetables. Third Course. — Hunters' pudding ; lemon cheesecakes; apple tart; custards, in glasses; raspberry cream. Dessert. First Course.—Ox-tail soup ; crimped cod and oyster sauce. Entrees.—Savoury rissoles; fowl scollops h la Bechamel, Second Course. — Haunch of mutton ; boiled chickens and celery sauce ; bacon- cheek, garnished with Brussels sprouts ; vegetables. Third Course. — Snijies ; orange jelly ; cheesecakes ; apples h la Portugaise ; apricot-jam tartlets; souffl of rice. Dessert, First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; solcfc k la niattro d'hOtol ; fried eels. Entrees. —Pork cutlets and tomato sauce ; ragout of mutton k la Jardinibre. Second Course. —Roast goose ; boiled leg of mutton and vegetables. Thit-d Course. — Pheasants; whipped cream; meringues; compote of Third Course. H>. Pheasants, S c"^ removed by -S-o 3^5' Plum-Pudding. . o'S ^ Vanilla Cream, j> a B ° Vase of o a Flowers. ^ Blancmange. ^ OH Wild Ducks, <^ g^. t-a' removed by .g « ? ^ Iced Pudding. g Pk Dessert and Ices.TSS DICTIONARY 01* COOKER?. 101 December, Plain Family Dinners Normandy pippins; mince pics; plum- pudcling. Dessert. First Course. — Carrot soup ; baked cod ; fried smelts. Entrees. — Stewed rump-steak h la Jardiniere ; fricasseed chicken. Second Course.—Roast leg of mutton, boned and stufled ; boiled turkey and oyster sauce ; vegetables. Third Coxirse. — Wild ducks ; fancy pastry ; lemon cream ; damson tart, with bottled fruit; custards, in glasses ; cabinet pud- ding. Dessert. DECEMBEH.Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Carrot soup. 2. Roast beef, horseradish sauce, vegetables. 3. Plum-pudiling, mince pies. MoraUu). —1. Fried whitings, melted butter. 2. Rabbit pie, coid beef, mashed potatoes. 3. Plum-pudding cut in slices and warmed, apple tart. Tuesdaij.—1. Hashed beef and broiled bones, pork cutlets and tomato sauce ; vegetables. 2. Baked lemon pudding. Wednesday.—1. Boiled neck of mutton and vegetables,—the broth served first with a little pearl barley or rice boiled in it. 2. Bakewell pudding. Thursday.—1. Roast leg of pork, apple sauce ; vegetables. 2. Rice snowballs. Friday.—1. Soles h, la crSme. 2. Cold pork and mashed potatoes, broiled rump- steaks and oyster sauce. 3. Rolled jam pudding. Saturday.—1. The remains of cold pork curi icd, dish of rice, mutton cutlets and mashed potatoes. 2. Baked apple dump- lings. Sunday.—1. Roast turkey and sau- ragcs, boiled leg of pork, pease pudding ; vegetables. 2. Baked apple i^udding, mince pies. Monday. — 1. Hashed turkey, cold pork, mashed potatoes. 2. Mincemeat puililing. Tu^sdojf.—\. Pea-soup made from li- quor in which pork was boiled. 2. Boiled fowls ai d celery sauce, vegetables. 3. Baked rico pudding. Wednesday.—\. Roast leg of mutton, stewed Spanish onions, potatoes. 2. Baked rolled jam pudding. Thursday.—1. Baked cod's head. 2. Cold mutton, roast hare, gravy and red- currant jolly. 3. Macaroni. Friday.-—I. Hare soup, made with Block aud remains of roast hare. 2. Dessert Hashed mutton, pork cutlets, and mashed potatoes. 3. Open tarts, rice blancmange. Saturday.—1. Rumpsteak-and-kidney pudding, vegetables. 2. Mince pies, baked apple dumplings. DECEMBER, Things in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, eels, dace, gudgeons, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, oysters, jjerch, pike, shrimps, skate, spi-ats, soles, touch, thornback, turbot, whiting. Meat. —Beef, house lamb, mutton,pork, venison. Poultry. —Capons, chickens, fowls, geese, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, tur- keys, widgeons, wild ducks. Game.—Hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks. Vegetables.— Broccoli, cabbages, car- rots, celery, leeks, onions, potatoes, parsnips, Scotch kale, turnips, winter spinach. Fruit. — Apples, chestnuts, filberts, grapes, medlars, oranges, pears, walnuts, dried fruits, such as almonds and raisins, figs, dates, &c.,—crystallized preserves. DESSEBT. With modems the dessert is not so profuse, nor docs it hold the same rela- tionship to the dinner that it held with the ancients,—the Romans more espe- cially. On ivory tables they would spread hundreds of different kinds of raw, cooked, and preserved fruits, tarts, and cakes, as substitutes for the more substantial comestibles with which the guests were satiated. However, as late as the reigns of our two last Georges, fabulous sums were often expended upon fanciful des- serts. The dessert certainly repays, in its general effect, the expenditure upon it of much pains; and it may be said, that if there be any poetry at all in mcalb, or the process of leediug, there is poetry in the dessert, the materials for which should be selected with taste, and, of course, must depend, in a great measure, upim the season. Pines, melons, grapes, peaches, nectarines, plums, strawberries, api)les, pears, oranges, almonds, raisins, figs, walnuts, filberts, medlars, chej-ries, &c. &:c., all kinds of dried fruits, and choice and delicately-flavoured cakes and biscuits, make up the dessert, together with the most costly and recherche wines. The shape of tho distics varies at different periods, tho prevailing fashion at present102 THE DICTIONAllY OF COOKERY. Dessert being oval and circular dislioa on stems. Tho pattorns and colours are also subject to changes of fashion; some persons selecting china, chasto in pattern and colour; others, elegantly-sliaped glass dishes on stems, with gilt edges. The beauty of the dessert services at tho tables of the wealt.liy tends to enhance the splendour of the plate. The general mode of putting a dessert on table, now tho elegant tazzas are fashionable, is, to place them down the middle of the table, a tall and short dish alternately; the fresh fruits being arranged on the tall dishes, and dried fruits, bon-bons, &c., on small round or oval glass plates. The garnishing needs especial attention, as the contrast of the brilliant-coloured fruits ■with nicely-arranged foliage is very charming. The gnrnish j)ar excellence for dessert is the ice-plant; its crysLallizcd dewdrops producing a marvellous effect iu the height of summer, giving a most inviting sense of coolness to the fruit it cncii-cles. Tho double-edged mallow, strawberry, and vine-leaves liaveapleasing effect; and for winter desserts, the baj', Cuba, and laurel are sometimes used. In town, tho expense and difficulty of ob- taining natural foliage is great, but paper and composite loaves are to be purchased at an almost nomiurvl price. Mixed fruits of the larger sort are now frequently served on one dish. This mode admits of the display of much taste in the ar- rangement of the fruit: for instance, a pine in the centre of the dish, surrounded ■with liirge phmis of various sorts and colours, mixed with pears, rosy-cheeked apples, all arranged with a due regard to colour, have a very good effect. Again, apples and pears look well mingled with plums and grapes, hanging from the border of the dish in a n6glig6 sort of manner, with a large bunch of the same fruit lying on the top of the apj^les. A dessert would not now be considered complete without candied and preserved fruits and confections. Tho candied fruits may bo purchased at a less cost than they can be manufactured at home. They are preserved abroad in most orna- mental and elegant forms. And since, from the facihtics of travel, we have be- come so familiar with the t-iblcs of the Frc'nch, chocolate in diO'crcnt forms is indisjicnsable to our desserts. Olives, too, should not be omitted ; these should be served in a small, deep glass dish, with »little of tho liquor, or brine, poured over. Dessert Dishes DESSERT DISHES. Tho tazza, or dish with stem, the same as that shown in our iliustraiious, is now the favourite shape for dessert-dishes. The fruit can be arranged and shown t« better advantage on these tall high dishes than on tho short Hat ones. AH the dishes are now usually placed down the centre of the table, dried and fresh fruit alternately, the former being ar- ranged on small round or oval glass plates, and the latter on the dishes with stems. The fruit should always be ga- thered on the same day that it is required for table, and should be tastefully ar- ranged on the dishes, with leaves between and round it. By purchasing fruits that are in season, a dessert can be supplied at a veiy moderate cost. These, with a few fancy biscuits, crystallized fniit, bon-bons, &c., are sufficient for an ordi- nary dessert. When fresh frait cannot be obtained, dried and foreign fruits, competes, baked pears, stewed Normandy pippins, ka. kc, must supply its place, with the addition of pr^jserves, bon-bons, cakc-B, biscuits, &c. At fashionable ta- bles, forced fruit is served growing in pot:?, these pots being hidden in more ornamental ones, and arranged with tho other dishes. A few vases of fresh (lowers, tastefully arranged, add very much to the appearance of the dessert; and, when these are not obtainable, a few paper ones, mixed with green leaves, answer very well as a substitute. In decorating a table, whether for luncheon, dessert, or supper, a vase or two of flowers should never be forgotten, as they add so much to the elegance of the tout ensemble. In summer and aul umn, ladies residing in the country can always manage to have a few frcshlj'-gathered flowers on their tables, and should never bo without this inexpensive luxury. On the Continent, vases or epergnes filled with flowers sire invariably placed down the centre of the dinner-table at regular distances. Ices for dessert ai'o usually moulded ; when this is not the case, they are handed round in glasses, with wafers to accompany them. Preserved ginger is frequently handed round after ices, to prepare the palate for the delicious des- sert wines. A basin or glass of finely- pounded lump sujrar must never be omit- ted at a dessert, .as also a glass jug of fresh cold water (iced, if possible), and two goblets by its side. Grape scissors,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 103 Dessert Dishes a melon-knife and fork, and nutcrackers, should always be put on table, if there are dishes of fruit requii-ing them. Zests are sometimes served at the close of the dessert; such as anchovy toasts or bis- cuits. The French often serve plain or grated cheese with a dessert of fresh or dried fruits. At some tables, finger- glasses are placed at the right of each person, nearly half filled with cold spring water, and in winter with tepid water. These precede the dessert. At other tables, a glass or vase ia simply handed round, filled with perfumed water, into which each guest dips the corner of his napkin, and, when needful, refreshes his lips and the tips of his fingers. After the dishes are placed, and eveiy one is provided with plates, glasses, spoons, &c., the wine should be put at each end of the table, cooled or otherwise, accord- ing to the season. If the party be small, the wine may be placed only at the top of the table, near the host. The follow- ing dishes may be introduced at dessert, according to season :— Dish of Wuts.—These are merely arranged piled high in the centre of the disb, as shown in the engi-aving, with or without I'eaves round the edge. Fil- berts should always bo served with the outer skin or husk on them; and walnuts should bo well wiped with a damp cloth, and then wiihadry one, to remove the unpleasant sticky feel- ing the shells frequently have. Season- able.—Filberts from September to March; walnuts from September to January. Dessert Dishes DISH OV NUTS. Box of French Plums. — If the box which contains them is exceedingly ornamental, it >— ^-ijstr. placed iiRg!aaTO»i_ on the table; if small, on a glass dish ; if largo, without one, French plums may also be arranged on a glass BOX OV FBBNOH FI.UUS. plate, and garnished with bright-coloured sweetmeats, which make a very good effect. All fancy boxes of preserved and crystallized fruit may bo put on tho table or not, at pleasure. These littlo matters of detail must, of course, bo loft to individual tasto. Seasonable.—Maybo purchased all the j'ear ; but are in greater perfection in the winter. Dish of Mixed Fruit. — For a centre dish, a mixture of various fresh fruits has a remarkably good effect, par- ticularly if a pine be added to the list. A high raised appearance should be given to the fruit, which is done in the follow- ing manner. Place a tumbler in tho centre of the dish, and, in this tumbler. DISH 0I> MIXED I'kViT. the pine, crown uppermost; round tlia tumbler put a thick layer of moss, and, over this, apples, pears, plums, peaches, and such fruit as is simultaneously in season. By putting a layer of moss undei-neath, so much fruit is not required^ besides giving a better shape to tho dish, Grajpes should be i)laced on the top of the fruit, a portion of some of the bunchca hanging over the sides of the dish in a n6glig6 kind of manner, which takes off tho formal look of the dish. In arranging the plums, apples, &c., let tho colours contrast well. Seasonable.—^wiiahlQ for a dessert ip September or October.104 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Dessert Dishes Box of Cliocolate.—This is served iu an orna- mental box, placed on a glass plate or dish. Reason- able. — May BOX OF OnoCOLATB, be purchased at any time. Devonshire Junket D'sh of Apples.—The applesshould be nicely wiped with a dry cloth, and arranged on a dish, piled high in the centre, with evergreen leaves between each layer. The inferior apples should form the bot- tom layer, with the bright-colour- ed large ones at the top. The leaves of the laurel, bay, holly, or any shnab green in win- ter, are suitable for garnishing dessert dishes. Oranges may be arranged in the same manner ; they should also be wiped with a dry cloth before being sent to table. DISH OP APPLES. Dish of Mixed Siunmer Fruit.— This dish consists of cherries, raspberries, cui-rants, and strawberries, piled in dif- ferent layers, with plenty of leaves between each layer, so that each fruit is well sepa- rated. The fruit kshould be ar- ranged with a duo regard to colour, so that they contrast nicely one with the other. Our engravingshows «ISH OP MIXED SUIIMEB FHUIT. a layer of white chen-ies at the bottom, then one of red raspberries, over that a layer of white currants, and at the top Bomo fine scarlet strawberries. Season- able ill June, July, and August. Almonds and Baisins.—These aro OBually acrved on glass dishes, the fruit piled high in the centre, and the almonds blanched and strewn over. To blanch the almonds, put them into a small mug or teacup, pour over them boiling water, let them remain for 2 or 3 minutes, and the skins may then be easily removecJ. Figs, dates, French plums, &c., are all served on small glass plates or oval dishes, but without the almonds. ScasonalU at any time, but more suitable in winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. DISH OP STBAWBEBRIES. Dish of Strawberries.—Fine straw- berries, arranged in the manner shown in the engi-aving, look exceedingly welL The inferior ones should bo placed at the bottom of tne dish, and the others put in rows pyramid- ically, with the stalks down- wards, so that when the whole is completed, nothing but the red part of the fruit is visible. The fruit should be gathered with rather long stalks, as there is then something to support it, and it can be placed more upright in eachla3'cr. A few of the finest should be reserved to crown the top. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Ingredients.—To every pint of ne\l milk allow 2 dessertspoonfuls of brandj-, 1 dessertspoonful of sugar, and \h des- sertspoonful of prepared rennet; thick cream, pounded cinnamon, or grated nutmeg. Mode.—Make the milk blood- warm ; put it into a deep dish with the brandy, sugar, and rennet; stir it alto- gether, and cover it over until it is set. Then spread some thick or clotted cream ■ over tho top, grate some nutmeg, and i strew some sugar over, and the dish will be ready to serve. Time.—About 2 hours • to set tbo milk. Seasonable at any time..105 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Dinner DINNER, Being the grand solid meal of the day, is a matter of considerable importance ; and a well-served table is a striking index of human ingenuity and resource. The elegance with which a dinner ia served depends, of course, partly upon tlie means, but still more upon the taste of the master and mistress of the house. It may bo observed, in general, that there should always be flowers on the table, and, as they foi-m no item of expense where a garden is, there is no reason why they should not be employed every day. The variety of the dishes which furnish forth a modern dinner-table, does not necessarily imply anything unwholesome, or anything capricious. Food that is not well relished cannot be well digested; and the appetite of the over-worked man of business, or statesman, or of any dweller in towns, whose occupations are exciting and exhausting, is jaded, and requires stimulation. Men and women who are in rude health, and who have plenty of air and exercise, eat the sim- plest food with relish, and commonly digest it well; but those conditions are out of the reach of many men. They must suit their mode of dining to their mode of living, if thny cannot choose the latter. It is in serving up food that is at once appetizing and wholesome that tJie skill of the modern housewife is severely tasked ; and she has scarcely a more im- portant duty to fulfil. It is, in fact, her particular vocation, in virtue of which she may bo said to hold the health of the family, and of the friends of the family, ill her hands from day to day. The following aphorisms and short di- rections in relation to dinner-parties, are well deserving of notice:—" Let the number of your guests never exceed twelve, 80 that the conversation may be gtineral. Let the temperature of the dining-room bo about 68°. Let the dishes be few in number in the first course, but proportionally good. The order of food is from the most substan- tial to the lightest. The order of drink- ing wine is from the mildest to the most foamy and most perfumed. To invite a person to your house is to take charge of his happiness so long as he is beneath your roof. The mistress of the honse should always bo certain that the coffee is excellent; whilst the master should be Dinner answerable for the quality of his wines and liqueurs." Dinners A la Russe differ from ordinary dinners in the mode of serving the va- rious dishes. In a dinner h, la Kusse, the dishes ai'e cut up on a sideboard, and handed round to the guests, and each dish may be considered a course. The table for a dinner a la Russe should be laid with flowers and plants in fancy flower- pots down the middle, together with some of the dessert dishes. A menu or bill of fare should be placed by the side of each guest. The following are bills of fare for din- ners h la Russe, and eatable from July to November: the dishes can easily be varied to suit other months. Service a la Russe (July). Julienne Soup, Vermicelli Soup. Boiled Salmon, Turbot and Lobster Sauce. Soles-Water Souchy, Perch- Water Souchy. Matelote d'Anguilles h. la Toulouse, Filets do Soles k la Nor- mandie. Red Mullet, Trout. Lobster Rissoles, Whitebait. Riz do Veau la Banquibre, Filets de Poulets aux Coucombres. Canards k la Rouennaise, Mutton Cutlets la Jardi- niere. Braised Beef h, la Flamande, Spring Chickens, Roast Quarter of Lamb, Roast Saddle of Mutton, Tongue, Ham and Peas. Quails, larded. Roast Ducks, Turkey Poult, larded. Mayonnaise of Chicken, Tomatos, Green Peas k la Frani;ai^e. Su^doise of Strawberries, Charlotte Russe, CompOte of Cherries. Neapoli- tan Cakes, Pastry, Madeu-a Wine Jelly. Iced Pudding la Nesselrode. Dessert and Ices. Service a la Russe (November). Ox-tail Soup, Soup h. la Jardiniere. Turbot and Lobster Sauce, Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce. Stowed Eels, Soles h. la Normandie. Pike and Cream Sauce. Fried Fileted Soles. Filets de Bauf k la Jardiniere, Cro- quettes of Game aux Champignons. Chicken Cutlets, Mutton Cutlets and Tomato Sauce. Lobster Rissoles, Oyster Patties. Partridges aux lines Herbes, Larded Sweetbreads. Roast Beef, Pou- lets aux Cressons, Haunch of Mutton, Roast Turkey, Boiled Turkey and Ce- lery Sauce, Ham. Grouse, Pheasants, Hare. Salad, Ar- tichokes, Stewed Celery. Italian Cream,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 10« Dormers Chilrlotto aux Ponimos, Compote of Pears. Crotltcs madrdcs aux Fruits, Pastrj', Punch Jelly. Iced Puddiug. Dessert and Ices, DOBMEnS. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients. —\ lb. of cold mutton, 2 oz. of beef suet, pepjiGV and salt to taste, 3 oz. of boiled rice, 1 egg', bread crumbs, made gravy. Mode.—Chop the meat, suet, and rice linely; mix well tos-pther, and add a high seasoning of pepper and salt, and roll into sausages ; cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot drip- ping of a nice brown. Serve in a dish with made gravy poured round them, and a little in a tureen. Time.—| hour to fry the sausages. Average cost, exclu- sive of the meat, Gd, Seasonable at any time. DRAUGHT for Summer. Ingredients.—The juice of 1 lemon, a tumblerful of cold water, pounded sugar to taste, ^ small teaspoonful of carjjon- ate of soda. Mode.—Squeeze the juice from the lemon ; strain, and add it to the water, with sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. When well mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and drink while the mixtui'e is in an effer- vescing state. DBIWK, Pleasant, for Warm Wea- ther. Ingredients.—To every h pint of good ale allow 1 bottle of ginger beer. Mode. —For this beverage the ginger beer must be in an eflbrvescing state, and the beer not in the least turned or sour. Mix them together, and di-ink immediately. The draught is refreshing and wholesome, as the ginger corrects the action of the beer. It docs not deteriorate by stand- ing a little, but, of course, is better when taken fresh. DniPPINGr, to Clarify. Good and fresh dripping answers very well for basting everything except game and poultry, and, when well clarified, serves for frying nearly as well as lard ;'t should be kept in a cool place, and wdl lemain good some time. To clarify it jiut the dripping into a basin, pour over it boiling water, and keep stirring the T^liole to wash away the inipuritios. Let Ducks, Hoast it stand to cool, when the water and dirty sediment will settle at the bottom of tlie basin. Remove the dripping, and put it away in jars or basins for use. Another Way.—Pat the dripping into a clean saucepan, and let it boil for a few minutes over a slow fire, and be careful to skim it well. Let it stand to cool a little, then strain it through a piece of muslin into jars for use. Leet dripping is preferable to any other for cooking purposes, as, with mutton drip- ping, there is liable to bo a tallowy taste and smell. DUCK, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast duck, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or water, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, thickening of butter and flour, salt and cayenne to taste, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon- peel, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, h glass of port wine. Mode.—Cut the duck into nice joints, and put the tnm- mings into a stewpan ; slice and fry the onion in a little butter; add thf se to the trimmings, pour in the above proportion of weak stock or water, and stew gontly for 1 hour. Strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, season with salt and caj'enne, and add the I'emaining in- gredients ; boil it up and skim well; lay in the pieces of duck, and let them get thoroughly hot through by the side of the fire, but do not allow them to boil: they should soak in the gravy for about h hour. Garnish with sippets of toasted Bread. The hash may be made richer by using a stronger and more highly- flavoured gravy ; a little spice or pounded mace may also be added, when their flavour is liked. Time.—1^ hour. Aver- age cost, exclusive of cold duck, id. Seasonable from November to Febniiry; ducklings from May to August. DUCKS, Hoast. Ingredients.—A couple of ducks; s.ago- and-bnion stuffing; a little flonr. Choos- ing and Trussing.—Choof^e ducks with plump bellies, aud with thick aiid yel- lowish feet. They should be trussed with the feet on, which should be scalded, and the skin peeled off, aud then turned up close to the legs. Rdu a skewer through the middle of each log, after having drawn the» as dloi-'j asTHE DICTI0NAE7 OF COOKEEY. 107 Duck, Eoast, to carve possible to the body, to plump up the breast, passing the same quiie thi oujih the body. Cut off the heads and necks, and the pinions at the first joint; bring these close to the sides, twist the feet BOAST D0CK. round, and truss thena at the back of the bird. After the duck is stuffed, both ends should be secured with string, so as to keep in the seasoning. Mode.— To insure ducks being tender, never dress them the same day they are killed; and, if the weather permits, they should hang a day or two. Make a stuiSng of sage and onion sufficient for one duck, and leave the other unseasoned, as the flavour is not liked by everybody. Put them down to a brisk clear fire, and keep them well basted the whole of the time they are cooking. A few minutes before serving, dredge them lightly with flour, to make them froth and look plump; and when the steam draws towards the fire, send them to table hot and quickly, with a good brown gravy poured round, but not over the ducks, and a little of the same in a tureen. When in season, green peas should invariably accompany this dish. Time. — Full-grown ducks from 5 to 1 hour; ducklings from 25 to 35 minutes. Averuf/e coat, from 2s. 2id. to 2s. 6cZ. each. Svjjicient.—A couple of ducks for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.— Ducklings from April to August; ducks from November to February. DUCK, Koast, to carve. No dishes require so much knowledge and skill in their carving as do game and poultry ; for it is necessary to bo well acquainted with the anatomy of the bird Duck, Koast, to carve. BOAST DUCK. in order to place the knife at exactly the proper point. A tough fowl and an old goose are sad triers of a carver's powers and temper, and, indeed, sometimes of the good humour of those in the neigh- bouvhood of the carver; for p, suddcu tilt LEG, WIWO, AMD NEClfDONB OE' DnCK. of the dish may eventuate in the placmg of a quantity of the gravy in the lap of the right or left-hand supporter of the host. We will endeavour to assist those who are unacquainted with the "gentle art of carving," and also those who are but slightly acquainted with it, by simply de- scribing the rules to follow, and referring to the distinctly- marked illustrations of each dish, which will further help to bring light to the minds of the unini- tiated. If the bird be a young duckling, it may be carved like a fowl, viz., by first taking off the leg and the wing on either side; but in cases where the duckling is vei-y small, it will be as well not to separate the leg from the wing, as they will not then form too large a portion for a single serving. After the legs and wings are disposed of, the remainder of the duck will be also carved in the same manner as a fowl; and not much difficulty will be ex- perienced, as ducklings are tender, and the joints are easilj' broken by a little gentle forcing, or penetrated by the knife. In cases where the duck is a largo bird, the better [ilan to pursue is then to carve it like a goose, that is, by cutting pieces from the breast in the direction indicated by the lines marked from 1 to 2, com- mencing to carve the slices close to the wing, and then proceeding upwards from that to the breastbone. If more should be wanted than can be obtained from both sides of the breast, then the legs and wings must be attacked, in the uame way as is described in connection with carving a fowl. It may be here re- marked, that as the legs of a duck are placed far more backward than those of a fowl, their position causing the wad- dling motion of the bird, the thigh-bones will be found considerably nearer towards the backbone than in a chicken ; this is the only difference worth mentioning. The carver should ask each guest if a portion of stuffing would be agreeable: and in order to get at this, a cut should be made below the breast, as shown by the line from 3 to 4, at the part called tha "apron," and the spoon j«*iert«KU108 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Duck and Peas, Stewed (As described in the recipe, it is an ex- cellent plan, when a couple of ducks are served, to have one with, and the other without, stuffing.) As to the prime parts of a duck, it has been said that '' the wing of a tiier and the leg of a swimmer " are severally the best portions. Some persons are fond of the feet of the duck; and, in trussing, these should never bo taken oif. The leg, wing, and neckbone are here shown ; so that it will be easy to see the shape they should be when cut off. Note.—Ducklings are trussed and roasted in the same manner, and served with the same sauces and accompani- ments. When in season, do not omit apple sauce. DUCK AND PEAS, Stewed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast duck, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 pints of thin jjTavy, 1, or a small bunch of green onions, 3 sprigs of parsley, 3 cloves, 1 pint of young green peas, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Put the butter into a Btewpan ; cut up the duck into joints, lay them in with the slices of lean ham or bacon; make it brown, then dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and stir this well in before adding the gi'avy. Put in the onion, parsley, cloves, and gravy, and ■when it has simmered for \ hour, add a pint of young green peas, and stew gently for about \ hour. Season with cayenne, salt, and sugar; take out the duck, place it round the dish, and the peas in the middle. Time.—f hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck, Is. Sea- sonable from June to August. DUCK AND PEAS, Stewed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast duck, A pint of good gravy, cayenne and salt to taste, teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of butter rolled in flour, 11 pint of green peas. Mode.—Cut up the duck into joints, lay it in the gravy, and add a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and minced lemon-pcel; let this gradually warm through, but not boil. Throw the peas into boiling water slightly salted, and Ooil them rapidly until tender. Drain thorn, stir la the pounded sugar, and the Duck, to Ragout a whole butter rolled in flour ; shake them over the fire for two or three minutes, and serve in the centre of the dish, with the duck laid round. Time.—15 minutes to boil the peas, when they are full grown. Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck, IQd. Seasonable from June to August DUCK, Stewed, in Turnips. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredierds. —The remains of cold duck, h pint of good gravy, 4 shalots, a few slices of car- rot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 lb. of turnips weighed after being peeled, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. —Cut up the duck into joints, fry the shalots, carrots, and herbs, and put them with the duck into the gravy. (Jut about 1 lb. of turnips into h inch squares, put the butter into a stewpan, and stew them till quite tender, which will be in about i hour, or rather more; season with pepper and salt, and serve on the centre of the dish, with the duck, &c., laid round. Time.—Rather more than h hour to stew the turnips. Average cost, ex- clusive of cold duck. Is. Seasonableirom November to February. DUCK, to Bagout a whole. Ingredients.—1 large duck, pepper and salt to taste, good beef gravy, 2 onions sliced, 4 sage-leaves, a few leaves of lemon thyme, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—After having emptied and singed the duck, season it inside with pepper and salt, and truss it. Roast it before a clear fire for about 20 minutes, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient well-seasoned beef gravy to cover it; slice and fry the onions, and add these, with the sage- leaves and lemon thyme, both of which should be finely minced, to the stock. Simmer gently until the duck is tender; strain, skim, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; boil it up, pour over the duck, and servo. When iu season, about 1^ pint of young green peas, boiled separate!J', and put in the ragoOt, very much improve this dish. Ttme.— 20 minutes to roast the duck ; '20 minutes to stow it. Average cost, from 2«. 3(/. to 2s. 6d. each. Sulfickiit lor 4 or 5 jici-sous. Seasonable from November to February;, ducklings from April to AugusU109 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Duck, Wild, Hashed DUCK, WUd, Hashed. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast w'ld duck, 1 pint of good brown gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread cmmbs, 1 glass of claret, salt, cayenne, and mixed spices to taste; 1 tablespoonful of lemon or Seville orange-juice. Mode.—Cut the remains of the duck into neat joints, put them into a stewpan,with all the above in- gredients ; let them get gradually hot by the side of the fire, and occasionally stir the contents; when on the point of boiling, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—About | hour. Seasonable from November to February. DUCK, WUd, Hagout of. Ingredients.—2 wild ducks, 4 shalots, 1 pint of stock (see JStock), 1 glass of port wine, 1 oz. of butter, a little flour, the juice of ^ lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Ducks that have been dressed and left from the preceding day will answer for this dish. Cut them into joints, reserve the legs, wings, and breasts until wanted ; put the trimmings into a stewpan with the shalots and stock, and let them simmer for about h hour, and strain the gravy. Put the butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in a little flour, and pour in the gravy made from the bones; give it one boil, and strain it again ; add the wine, lemon-juice, and cayenne ; lay in the pieces of duck, and let the whole gra- dually warm through, but do not allow it to boil, or the duck will be hard. The gravy should not be too thick, and should be very highly seasoned. The squeeze of a Seville orange is a great improve- ment to this dish. Time.—About ^ hour to make the gravy; ^ hour for the duck gradually to warm through. Seasonable from November to February. DUCK, Wild, Roast. Ingredieni3.—\YM duck, flour, butter, il/oc^e.—Carefully pluck and draw them ; cut oS' the heads close to the necks leaving sufficient skin to turn over, and do not cut off the feet; some twist each leg at the knuckle, and rest the claws on each side of the breast; others truss them as shown in our illustration. Boast the birds before a quick firo, and, when they are first put down, let thom re- main for 5 minutes without basting (this will keep the gravy in); afterwards baste plentifully with butter, and a few minutes Dumplings, Sussex before serving dredge them lightly with flour ; baste well, and send them to table nicely frothed, and full of gravy. If EOAST WILD DITCE:. overdone, the birds will lose their flavour. Serve with a good gravy in the dish, or orange gravy, and send to table with them a cut lemon. To take ofi" the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, baste them for a few minutes with hot water to which have been added an onion and a little salt; then take away the pan, and baste with butter. Tivie.—When liked underdressed, 20 to 25 minutes; well done, 25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, 4s. to 5s. the couple. DUCK, WUd, to Canre. As game is almost universally served as a dainty, and not as a dish to stand the assaults of an altogether fresh ap- petite, these dishes are not usually cut up entirely, but only those parts are served of each which are considered the best flavoured and the prim est. Of wild fowl, the breast alone is considered by epicui-es worth eating, and slices aro cut from this, in the direction indicated by the lines, from 1 to 2 ; if necessary, the leg and the wing can be taken off bjr passing the knife from 8 to 4, and by generally following the directions do- scribed for carving boiled fowl. DUMPLINGS, Sussex, or Hard. Ingredients.—! lb. of flour, I pint of water, i saltspoonful of salt. Mode.— Mix the flour and water togpther to a smooth paste, previously addirg a small quantity of salt. Form this into small round dumplings ; drop thom into boil« ing water, and boil from i to j hour. They may be served with roast or boiled meat; in the latter case, they may ba cooked with the meat, hut should bo dropped into the water when it is quite boiling. Time.—^ to J hour. Sufficient WILD DUCK.110 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Dutch Flixmmery for 10 or 12 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. DUTCH FLUMMERY. Ingredients.—l.J oz. of isinglass, the rind and juico of 1 lemon, 1 pint of water, 4 eggs, 1 pint of sherry, Madeira, or raisin-wine; sifted sugar to taste. Mode. —Put tlie water, isinglass, and lemon- rind into a lined saucepan, and simmer gently until the isinglass is dissolved ; strain this into a basin, stir in the eggs, which should be well beaten, the lemon- juice, which should be strained, and the wine; sweeten to taste with pounded sugar, mix all well together, pour it into a jug, set this jug in a saucepan of boil- ing water over the fire, and keep stirring it one way imtil it thickens; but take care that it does not boil. Strain it into a mould that has been oiled or laid in water for a short time, and put it in a cool place to set. A tablespoouful of brandy stirred iu just before it is poured into the mould, improves the flavour of this dish : it is better if it is made the day before it is required for table. Time. —I hour to simmer the isinglass ; about ^ hour to stir the mixture over the fire. Average cost, is. 6d.,if made with sherry; less with raisin-wine. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. EEL BROTH. Ingredients.—h lb. of eel, a small bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley, ^ onion, 10 pei^percoms, 3 pints of water, 2 cloves, salt and pepper to taste. Mode. —After having cleaned and skinned the eel, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the other ingre- dients ; simmer gently until the liquid is reduced to nearly half, carefully re- moving the scum as it rises. Strain it through a hair sieve : put it by in a cool place, and, when wanted, take off all the fat on the top ; warm up as much as is required, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. This is a very nutritious broth, and easy of digestion. Time.—To be simmered until the liquor is reduced to half. Average cost, (jd. Sufficient to make IJ pint of broth. Seasonable from June to March. EEL PIE. Ingredients.—I lb. of eels, a little chopped parsley, 1 sbalot, grated nut- meg, pepper and salt to taste, the juice Eel, Collared of J a lemon, small quantity of force- meat, I pint of Bechamel; puff paste. Mode.—Skin and wash the eels, cut then: in pieces 2 inches long, and line the bottom of the pie-dish with forcemeat. Put in the eels, and sprinkle them with ihe parsley, shalots, nutmeg, seasoning, ano lemon-juice, and cover with puff-paste. Bake for 1 hour, or rather more ; mak€ the Bechamel hot, and pour it into the pie. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour; Seasonable from August to March. EEL SOUP. Ingredients.— 3 lbs. of eels, 1 onion 2 oz. of butter, 3 blades of mace, 1 bunel of sweet herbs, | oz. of peppercorns, sal to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, ^ pin of cream, 2 quarts of water. Mode. Wash the eels, cut them into thin slice and put them into the stewpan with th butter; let them simmer for a few mi notes, then pour the water to them, an add the onion, cut in thin slices, th herbs, mace, and seasoning. Simmer ti the eels are tender, but do not break th fish. Take them out carefullj', mix th flour smoothly to a batter with the cream bring it to a boil, pour over the eels, an serve. Time.—1 hour or rather more Average cost, lOcZ. per quart. Seasonal from June to March. Sufficient for persons. Note. — This soup may be flavourc differently by omitting the cream, an adding a Uttlo ketchup or Harvey sauce. EELS, Boiled. Ingredients.—4 small eels, sufBciei water to cover them ; a large bunch parsley. Mode.—Choose small eels f boiling; put them into a stewpan with tl parsley, and just sufhcient water to cov. them; simmer till tender. Take the out, pour a little parsley and butter ov them, and servo some in a tu'-eeu. Tim —h hour. Average cost, 6d. per 1 Seasonable from Juno to March. SvJ, cienttor 4 persons. EEL, Collared. Ingredients.—1 largo eel; pepper ai salt to taste; 2 blades of mace, 2 clove a littlo allspice very finely pounded, loaves of sage, anei a small bunch herbs minced very small. Mode.—'Qo the eel and skiu it; split it, and BprmiIll THE. DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Eels, Fried t over with the ingredients, taking care hat the spices are very finely pounded, md the herbs chopped very small. Roll t up and bind vnth a broad piece of tape, md boil it in water, mixed with a little salt and vinegar, till tender. It may either 36 served whole or cut in slices ; and vheu cold, the eel should be kept in the iquor it was boiled in, but with a little nore vinegar put to it. Time.—2 hours. Ave)-age cost, Gd. per lb. Seasonable Tom August to March. EELS, Pried. Iiigredierds.—1 lb. of eels, 1 egg, a few iread crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Wash he 'iels, cut them into pieces 3 inches ong, trim and wipe them very dry ; Iredge with flour, rub them over with 3gg, and cover with bread crumbs ; fry \ nice brown in hot lard. If the eels are !mall, curl them round, instead of cutting :hem up. Gai-nish with fried parsley. Time.—20 minutes or rather less. ' Ave- '•age cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable from June to March. EELS, en Matelote. Ingredients.—5 or 6 young onions, a Few mushrooms, when obtainable ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; 1 laurel leaf, ^ pint of port wine, ^ pint of medium stock, butter and flour to thicken; 2 lbs. of eels. Mode.—Rub the stewpan with butter, dredge in a little flour, add the mions cut very small, slightly bi'own them, and put in all the other ingre- rlients. Wash, and cut up the eels into pieces 3 inches long; put them in the Ktewpan, and simmer for ^ hour. Make round the dish a border of crofitons, or pieces of toasted bread ; arrange the eels in a pyramid in the centre, and pour over the sauce. Serve very hot. Time.— ^ hour. Average cost. Is. 9d. for this quantity. Seasonable from August to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. EELS, Stewed. Ingredients. —2 lbs. of eels, 1 pint of rich strong stock, 1 onion, 3 cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, 1 glass of port or Madeira, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream; thickening of flour; cayenne and lemon- juice to taste. Mode.—Wash and skin the eels, and cut them into pieces about 3 inches long ; pepper and salt them, and lay them la a stewpan; pour over the Eggs stock, add the onion stuck with cloves, the lemon-peel, and the wine. Stew gently for h hour, or rather more, and lift them carefully on a dish, which keep hot. Strain the gravy, stir the cream, sufiBcient flour to thicken; mix alto- gether, boil for 2 minutes, and add the cayenne and lemon-juice ; pour over the eels and sei-ve. Tim,e.—fhour. Average cost for this quantity, 2s. 3d. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. EELS, Stewed. Ingredients. — 2 lbs. of middling-si zed eels, 1 pint of medium stock, ^ pint of port wine ; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste; 1 teaspoonful of essence of an- chovy, the juice of ^ a lemon. Mode.— Skin, wash, and clean the eels tho- roughly; cut them into pieces 3 inches long, and put them into strong salt and water for 1 hour ; dry them well with a cloth, and fry them brown. Put the stock on with the heads and tails of the eels, and simmer for h hour; strain it, and add all the other ingredients. Put in the eels, and stew gently for ^ hour, when serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost. Is. 9rf. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. EELS, h, la Tartare. Ingredients.—2 lbs, of eels, 1 carrot, 1 onion, a little flour, 1 glass of sherry; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste ; bread- crumbs, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar. Mode. — Rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan; cut up the carrot and onion, and stir them over the fire for 5 minutes ; dredge in a little flour, add the wine and seasoning, and boil for an hour. Skin and wash the eels, cut them into pieces, put them to the other in- gredients, and simmer tiU tender. When they are done, take them out, let them get cold, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Put them on a dish, pour sauce piquante over, and sei-ve them hot. Time.—\h hour. Average cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of the sauce piquante. Seasonable from August to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. EGGS. There is only one opinion as to the nutritive properties of eggs, although theTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 112 Egg3 qualities of tlioso bolonginp to difforent birds vary eomewliat. Those of the common hen are most esteemed as de- licate food, particularly when "new- laid." The quality of eggs depends much upon the food given to the hen. Eggs in general are considered most easily digestible when little subjected to the art of cookery. The lightest way J of dressing them is by poaching, which , is effected by putting them for a minute • or two into brisk boiling water : this coa- gulates the external white, without doing the inner part too much. Eggs are much better when new-laid than a day or two afterwards. The usual time allotted for boiling eggs in the shell is 3 to 3^ mi- nutes : less time than that in boiling water will not be sufficient to solidify the white, and more will make the yolk hard and less digestible: it is very difficult to guess accurately as to the time. Great care should be employed in putting them into th« water, to prevent cracking the shell, which inevitably causes a portion of the white to exude, and lets water into the egg. For the purpose of placing eggs in water, always choose a large spoon in preference to a small one. Eggs are often beaten up raw in nutritive beverages. The eggs of the turkey are almost as mild as those of the hen ; the egg of the goose is large, but well-tasted. Ducks' eggs have a rich flavour; the albumen is slightly transparent, or bluish, when set or coagulated by boiling, which requires less time than hens' eggs. Guinea-fowl eggs are smaller and more delicate than those of the hen. Eggs of loild fowl are generally coloured, often spotted ; and the taste generally partakes somewhat of the bird they loelong to. Those of land birds that are eaten, as the i^lover, lapioing, ruff, &c., are in general much ^ esteemed; but those of sea-fowl have, more or less, a strong fishy taste. The eggs of the hirtle are very numerous : they consist of yolk only, without shell, and are delicious. When fresh eggs are dropped into a vessel full of boiling water, they crack, because the eggs being well filled, the shells give way to the efforts of the in- terior fluids, dilated by heat. If the volume of hot water be small, the shells «3o not crack, because its temperature is reduced by tho eggs before the interior dilation can take place. Stale e^rgs, again, do not crack' because the air inside is easily compressed. Egg Wine EGG BALLS, for Soups and madee Dishes. Ingredients.—8 eggs, a little flour seasoning to taste of salt. Mo'le.—Boi 6 eggs for 20 minutes, strip off the shells." take the yolks and poimd them in ^^ mortar. Beat tho yolks of the 2 uncooked eggs ; add them, with a little flour am salt, to those pounded ; mix all well to gether, and roll into balls. Boil then. before they are put into the soup or othei ■ dish they may be intended for. EGG SAUCE, for Salt Fish. Ingredients.—4 eggs, J pint of melttdi butter, when liked, a very little lemon-, juice. Mode.—Boil the eggs until quite* hard, which will be in about 20 minutes,- and put them into cold water for .4 hour/ Scrip off the shells, chop the eggs into: small pieces, not, however, too fine. Make the melted butter very smooth,:, and, when boiling, stir in the eggs, andi serve very hot. Lemon-juice may bee added at pleasure. Time.—20 minutes to boil the eggs. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient.—This quantity for 3 or 4 lbs. of fish. Note.—When a thicker, sauce is re- quired, use one or two more eggs to the* same quantity of melted butter. EGG SOUP. ■ Ingredients.—A tablespoonful of flour, 4 eggs, 2 small blades of finely-pounded mace, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Beat up the flour smoothly in a teaspoonful oft cold stock, and put in the eggs; thrown them into boiling stock, stirring all thes time. Simmer for ^ of an hour. Season and serve with a French roll in the tureen or fried sippets of bread. Time.—h an hour. A verage cost, lid. per quart. Sea- souahte all the year. SvfficieJit for 8: persons. EGG WINE. IngredienL<!.—1 egg, 1 tablespoonful and h glass of cold water, 1 glass of sherry, sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the egg, mixing with it a tablespoonful of cold water; make the wine-and-water hot, but not; boilhig ; pour it on the o<ig, stirring all the time. Add sufficient lump sugar to ■ sweeten the mixture, and a little grated! nutmeg ; put all into a very clean sauce- • pan, set it on a gentle tire, and stir the»THE DTCTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 113 Eggs, to Boil contents one way until they thicken, but do not allow tliem to boil. Serve in a glass with sippets of toasted bread or plain crisp biscuits. When the egg is not warmed, the mixture will be found easier of digestion, but it is not so plea- sant a drink. Sufficient for 1 person. EGGS, to Boil for Breakfast, Sa- lads, &c. Eggs for boiling cannot be too fresh, or boiled too soon after they are laid ; but rather a longer time should be al- lowed for boiling a new-laid egg than for one that is three or four days old. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water ; put the eggs into it gently with a spoon, letting the spoon touch the bottom of the saucepan before it is withdrawn, that the egg may not fall, and consequently crack. For those who like eggs lightly boiled, 3 minutes will be found sufficient; 3j to 4 minutes will be ample time to set the white nicely ; and, if liked hard, 6 to 7 mi- nutes will not be found too long. Should EaO-STAND FOE THB BBEAKrAST-TABLE. the eggs be unusually large, as those of blick Spanish fowls sometimes are, allow an extra ^ minute for them. Eggs for salads should be boiiod from 10 minutes to i hour, and should be placed in a basin of cold water for a few minutes; they should then be rolled on the table with the hand, and the .shell will peel ofif easily. Time.—To boil eggs lightly, for invalids or children, 3 minutes ; to boil eggs to suit the generality of tastes, 3^ to 4 minutes; to boil eggs hard, 6 to 7 mi- nutes ; for salads, 10 to 15 minutes. EGGS, Buttered. Inf/redients.—4 new-laid eggs, 2 oz, of bulior. Mode.—Procure the eggs new- laid if possible ; break them into a basin, and boat them well; put the butter into Eggs, Pried another basin, which place in boiling water, and stir till the butter is melted. Poiu- that and the eggs into a lined saucepan ; hold it over a gentle fire, and, as the mixture begins to warm, pour it two or three times into the basin, and back again, that the two ingredients may be well incorporated. Keep stirring the eggs and butter one way until they are hot, u-ilkout hoiling, and serve on hot buttered toast. If the mixture is allowed to boil, it will curdle, and so be entirely spoiled. Tiiiie.—About 5 minutes to make the eggs hot. Average cost, Id. Sufficient.—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, to Choose. In choosing eggs, apply the tongue to the large end of the egg, and, if it feels warm, it is new, and may be relied on as a fresh egg. Another mode of ascer- taining their freshness is to hold them before a lighted candle or to the light, and, if the egg looks clear, it will be tolerably good; if thick, it is stale ; and if there is a black spot attached to the shell, it is worthless. No egg should be used for culinary purposes with the sUghtest taint in it, as it will render perfectly useless those with which it has been mixed. Eggs that are purchased, and that cannot be relied on, should always be broken in a cup, and then put into a basin : by this means stale or bad eggs may be easily rejected, without wasting the others, EGGS, Ducks'. Ducks' eggs are usually so strongly flavoured that, plainly boiled, they £ire not good for eating; they answer, how- ever, very well for various culinary pre- parations where eggs are required ; such as custards, &c. &c. Being so large and highly-flavoured, 1 duck's egg will go as far as 2 small hen's eggs, besides making whatever they are mixed with exceedingly rich. They also ai'e ad- mirable when used in puddings. EGGS, Fried. Ingredients. — 4 eggs, \ lb. of lard, butter or clarified dripping. Mode.— Place a delicately-clean frying-pau over a gentle fire ; put in the fat, and allovj114 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Eggs h la Maltre d'HStel it to come to the boiling-point. Break the eggs into cups, slip them into the boiling fat, and let thorn remain until the whites are rBiEB EGGS ON BACoir. delicately tot; and, whilst they are frying, ladle a little of the fat over them. Take them up with a slice, drain them for a minute from their greasy moisture, trim them neatly, and serve on slices of frieil bacon or ham ; or .the eggs may be placed in the middle of the dish, with the bacon put round as a garnish. Time.—2 to 3 mi- nutes. Average cost, Id. each ; 2d. when scarce. Siifficienl for 2 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. EGGS b, la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients.—^ lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespnonful of flour, ^ pint of milk, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, the juice of ^ lemon, 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the flour and half the butter into a stewpan ; stir them over the fire until the mixture thickens; pour in the milk, which should be boiling; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and simmer the whole for 5 minutes. Put the remainder of the butter into the sauce, and add the minced parsley ; then boil the eggs hard, strip oS' the shell, cut the eggs into quarters, and put them on a dish. Bring the sauce to the boiling- point, add the lemon-juice, pour over the eggs and serve. Time.—5 minutes to boil the sauce; the eggs, 10 to 15 mi- nutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, to Pickle. Ingredients. —16 eggs, 1 quai-t of vinegar, .J oz. of black pepper, h oz. of Jamaica pepper, h oz. of gingor. Mode.— Boil the eggs for 12 minutes, then dip them into cold water, and take ofi" the shells. Put the vinegar, with the pepper and ginger, into a stewpan, and let it simmer for 10 minutes. Now place the eggs in a jar, pour over them the vinegar, &c., boiling hot, and, when cold, tie them down with bladder to exclude the air. This pickle will bo ready for use in a month. Average cost, for this quantity, 15. 9d. Seasonable.—This should bo made about Easter, as at this time eggs are plentiful and cheap. A store of pickled eggs will be found very useful Eggs, Poached and ornamental in serving with many first and second course dishes. EGGS ATJ PLAT, or AU MIROIR, served on the Dish in which they are Cooked. Ingredients.—i eggs, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. —Butter a dish rather thickly with good fresh butter; melt it, break the eggs into it the same as for poaching, sprinkle them with white pepper and fine salt, and put the remainder of the butter, cut into very small pieces, on the top of them. Put the dish on a hot plate, or in the oven, or before the fire, and let it remain until the whites become set, but not hard, when serve immediately, placing the dish they were cooked in on another. To hasten the cooking of the egg^s, a sala- mander may bo held over them for a minute; but great care must be taken that they are not too much done. This is an exceedingly nice dish, and one very easily prepared for breakfast. Time.— 3 minutes. Average cost, 5d. Sufficierd for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, Plovers'. Plovers' eggs are usually served boiled hard, and sent to table in a napkin, either hot or cold ; they may also be shelled, and served the same as eggs h. la Tripe, with a good B€chamel sauce, or brown gravy, poured over them. They are also used for decorating salads, the beautiful colour of the white being gene- rally so much admired. EGGS, Poached. Ingredients.—Eggs, water. To every pint of water allow 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode. — Eggs for ]ioaching should be perfectly fresh, but not quite new-laid; those that arc about 36 hours old are the best for the purpose. If quite new-laid, the white is so milky it is almost impossible to set it; and, on the other hand, if the egg be at all stale, it is equally diflicult to poach it nicelj'. Strain some boiling w.iter into a deei? clean frjdng-pan; break the egg into a cup without damaging the yolk, and, when the water boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and gently slip the egg into it. Place the pan over a gentle fire, and keep the water simmering until the white looks nicely set, when the egg is ready. Take it up gently with a slice,115 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Eggs, Poached cut away the ragged edges of the white, and sei"ve either on toasted bread or on ^^^•^Z'-^aar^'^:^ slices of ham ^^^^Z^i^^^^^^^^^^ or bacon, or on spinach, &c. A "'"^'^ poached egg EGGS FOACHSD OK TOAST, should not be overdone, as its appearance and taste will be quite spoiled if the yolk be allowed to harden. When the egg is slipped into the water, the white should be gathered together, to keep it a little in form, or the cup should be turned over it for \ minute. To poach an egg to perfection is rather a difficult operation ; so, for inexperienced cooks, a tin egg-poacher may be pur- chased, which greatly facilitates this manner of dressing eggs. Our illustra- tion clearly shows what it is : it consists TIN EGG-POACHEE. of a tin plate with a handle, with a space for throe perforated cups. An egg should be broken into each cup, and the machine then placed in a stewpan of boiling water, which has been previously strained. When the whites oi" the eggs appear set, they are done, and should then be carefully slipped on to the toast or spinach, or with whatever they are served. In poaching eggs in a frying- pan, never do more than four at a time ; and, when a little vinegar is liked mixed with the water in which the eggs are done, use the above proportion. Tim.e.— 2A to 3.3 minutes, according to the size of the egg. SuJJicient.—M\ovf 2 eggs to each person. Seasonable at any time, but less plentiful in winter. EGGS, Poached, with Cream. Incjredients.—l pint of water, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 4 toaspoonfuls of vinegar 4 fresh cgg.s A gill of cream, salt, pepper' and pounded sugar to taste, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Put the water, vinegar, and salt into a fryiug-pan, and break each egg into a separate cup ; bi ing the water, &c,, to boil, and slip the eggs Eggs, Snow gently into it without breaking the yolks. Simmer them from 3 to 4 minutes, but not longer, and, with a slice, lift them out on to a hot dish, and trim the edges. Empty the pan of its contents, put in the cream, add a seasoning to taste of pepper, salt, and pounded sugar ; bring the whole to the boiling-point; then add the butter, broken into small pieces ; toss the pan round and round till the butter is melted; pom* it over the eggs, and serve. To insure the eggs not being spoiled whilst the cream, &c. is preparing, it is a good plan to warm the cream with the butter, &c. before the eggs are poached, so that it may be poured over them immediately after they are dished. Time. — 3 to 4 minutes to poach the eggs, 5 minutes to warm the cream, A verage cost for the above quantity, 9d. Sicfficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, Scotch. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of forcemeat, hot lard, h pint of good brown gravy. Mode.—Boil the eggs for 10 minutes; strip them from the shells, and cover them with forcemeat, or sub- stitute pounded anchovies for the ham. Fry the eggs a nice brown in boiling lard, drain them before the fire from their greasy moisture, dish them, and pour round from ^ to ^ pint of good brown gravy. To enhance the appear- ance of the eggs, they may be rolled in beaten egg and sprinkled with bread- crumbs ; but this is scarcely necessary if they are carefully fried. The flavour of the ham or the anchovy in the forcemeat must preponderate, as it should be very relishing. Tme.—10 minutes to boil the eggs, 5 to 7 minutes to fry them. Average cost, Is. id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, Snow, or CEufs h la Neige (a very pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients.—4 eggs, ^ pint of milk, pounded sugar to taste, flavouring of vanilla, lemon-rind, or or.ango-flower water. Mode.—VvA the milk into a saucepan with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and the rind of h lemon. Let this steep by the side of the fire for h hour, when take out the peel; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, and whisk the former to a perfectly siifl froth, or until there is no liquid remain-THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEET. 110 Eggs, to keep Frosh ing; bring the milk to the boiling-point, drop in the snow a tablespoon ful at a time, and keep turning the eggs until «ulKciently cooked. Then place them on a glass dish, beat up the yolks of the eggs, stir to them the milk, add a little more sugar, and strain this mixture into * j^S > place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Pour this custard over the eggs, when they should rise to the surface. They make an ex- ceedingly pretty addition to a supper, and should be put in a cold place after being made. When they are flavoured with vanilla or orange-flowered water, it is not necessary to steep the milk. A few drops of the essence of either may ^e poured into the milk Just before the whites are poached. In making the custard, a little more flavouring and sugar should always be added. Time.— About 2 minutes to poach the whites; 8 minutes to stir the custard. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. /Seasonable at any time. EGGS, to keep Fresh for several Weeks. Have ready a large saucepan, capable of holding 3 or 4 quarts, full of boiling water. Put the eggs intoa. cabbage-net, say 20 at a time, and hold them in the water (which must be kept boiling) for 20 seconds. Proceed in this manner till you have done as many eggs as you wish to preserve ; then pack them away in sawdust. We have tried this method of preserving eggs, and can vouch for its excellence. They will be found, at the end of 2 or 3 months, quite good enough for culinary purposes ; and although the white may bo a little tougher than that of a new-laid egg, the yolk will be nearly the same. Many persons keep eggs for a long time by smearing the shells with 6uttor or sweet oil: they should then be packed in plenty of bran or sawdust, and the eggs not allowed to touch each other. Eggs for storing should bo col- lected in fine weather, and should not be more than 24 hours old when they are packed away, or their flavour, when used, cannot be relied on. Another simple way of preserving eggs is to immerse them in lime-water soon after they have been laid, and then to put the vessel containing the lime-water ia a Elder Wine cellar or cool outhouse. Seasonable.— (. The best time for preserving eggs it [is. from April to Septemljer. jfc EGGS, k la Tripe. P Ingredients.—S eggs, f pint of Bfohamc sauce, dessertspoonful of finely-mincei parsley. Mode. — Boil the eggs hard put them into cold water, peol them take out the yolks whole, and bhred ih^ whites. Make ^ pint of Bdchamel snuce add the parsley, and, when the sauce i quite hot, put the yolks of the eggs int< the middle of the dish, and the shre( whites round them ; pour over the sauce and garnish with leaves of puff-paste o fried crofitons. There is no necessity for putting the eggs into the saucepai with the Bdchamel ; the sauce, beinj quite hot, will warm the eggs sufficientl}- Time.—10 minutes to boil the eggs Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or '. persons. Seasonable at any time. ELDER WINE. Ingredients.—To every 3 gallons o water allow 1 peck of elderberries ; tc J every gallon of juice allow 3 lbs. of sugar- ^ i oz. of ground ginger, 6 cloves, 1 lb. O 'l h good Turkey raisins ; ^ pint of brandjfl Ir to every gallon of wine. To every 9 gal- lons of wine, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls ox fresh brewer's yeast. Mode.—Pour the* s] water, quite boiling, on the elderberries*, which should be picked Irom the stalks, and let these stand covered for 24 hours then strain the whole through a sieve oi b;ig, breaking the fruit to express all the J „ juice from it. Measure the liquor, andd ij to every gallon allow the above proportioix iij of sugar. Boil the juice and sugar witbii \\ the ginger, cloves, and raisins for 1 hour/, skimming the liquor the whole time ; lefel it stand until milk-warm, then put it intc« q a clean dry cask, with 3 or 4 tablespoon-;- fuls of good fresh yeast to every 9 gallons- of wine. Let it ferment for about 8 fortnight; then add the brandy, bung up the cask, and let it stand some months before it is bottled, when it will be found excellent. A bunch of hops suspended to a string from the bung, some persons say, will preserve the wine good for several j-ears. Elder wine is usually mulled, and served with sipjiels of to'isted bread and a little grated nut- meg. Time. -To stand covered for 24 hours; to be boiled 1 hour, -dverafft117 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Endive I, when made at home, 3s. 6d. per Ion. Seasonalle.—'iilake this in Sep- iber. :'his vegetable, so beautiful in appear- ;e, makes an excellent addition to Iter salad, when lettuces and other iter salads are not obtainable. It is laUy placed in the centre of the dish, I looka remarkably pretty with slices jeetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and curled ary placed round it, so that the colours trast nicely. In preparing it, care- y wash and cleanse it free from insects, ich are generally found near the heart; love any decaj^ed or dead leaves, and ' it thoroughly by shaking in a cloth, is vegetable may also be served hot, wed iii cream, brown gravy, or butter; i when dressed thus, the sauce it is wed in should not bo very highly soned, as that would destroy and irjiower the flavour of the vegetable. erajje cost, Id. per head. Sufficient.— ead for a salad for 4 persons. Season- e from November to March. S'DIVE, a, la FranQaise. Hgredients.—Q heads of endive, 1 pint broth, 3 oz. of fresh butter; salt, 3per, and gi'ated nutmeg to taste. )de.—Wash and boil the endive as in ! preceding recipe ; chop it rather e, and put into a stewpan with the ;th; boil over a brisk fire until the ice is all reduced; then put in the vter, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg e latter must be very sparingly used); X all well together, bring it to the iling point, and serve very hot. Time. 10 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer the broth. Averarje cost, Id. per head. [Jicient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable an November to March. JJDIVE, Stewed. Ingredients.—6 heads of endive, salt d water, 1 pint of brolh, thickening of tter and (lour, 1 tablcspoonful of lemon- co, a small lump of sugar. Mode.— ash and free the endive thoroughly )m insects, remove the green part of e leaves, and put it into boiling water, ghtly salted. Let it remain for 10 antes; then take it out, drain it till ere is no water remaining, and chop it ry fine. Put it into a stewpan with e broth ; add % little salt and a lump February-Bills of Pare of sugar, and boil until the endive _ i» perfectly tender. When done, which may be ascertained by squeezing a piece between the thumb and finger, add a thickening of butter and flour and the lemon-juice; let the sauce boil up, and serve. Time.—10 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer in the broth. A verage cost, Id. per head. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from November to March. ESPAGNOLE, or Brown Spanish Sauce. Ingredients.—2 slices of lean han>, 1 lb. of veal, 1.^ pint of white stock, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, 5 a bay-leaf, 2 or 3 sprigs of savoury herbs, 6 green onions, 3 shalots, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, thickening of butter and flom*. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, and put them into a stewpan. Moisten these with ^ pint of the stock, and simmer till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a nicely-coloured glaze, when put in a few more spoonfuls to detach it. Add the remainder of the stock, with the spices, herbs, shalots, and onions, and simmer very gently for 1 hour. Strain and skim olf every particle of fat, and, when required for use, thicken with butter and flour, or with a little roux. Add the wine, and, if necessary, a seasoning of cayenne; when it will be ready to serve. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, 2s. per pint. Note.—The wine in this sauce may be omitted, and an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown substituted for it. This sauce or gravy is used for many dish c«, and with most people is a genera? favourite. FEBBUARY-BILLS OF FAKBv Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. Hare Sonp, removed by ^ Turbot and Oyster Sauce. Si 5] Vase of % ^ Flowers. ^ 13 a Oyster Soup, .2 removed by pjj Crimped Cod a la Maitro d'Hotel.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERi, 118 February—Bills of Faxe Second Course. w o Braised Capon. Boiled Ham, guruished. -a < o )iled Fowls at White Sauce. ^1- ^ ft ra "-1 " re 3 CO 3 Vase of ricwers. —. re M • re Pat6 Chaud. Haunch of Mutton. m Entries. o Lark Pudding, .a u o" s. a p Vase of Flowers. s de Perd ties. Fricasseed Chicken. •u O Third Course. D 01? CI a Ducklings, removed hy Iced Pudding. ? Coffee Cream, a TO <9 13 <J Vase of ^^ Flowers. b C3 o Blancmange. 5 Partridges, removed by Cabinet Pudding. ® a Dessert and Ices. Dinner for 12 persons. First Course.—Soup h, la reino; clear gravy soup; brill and lobster sauce; fried smelts. Entrees.—Lobster rissoles; beef palates; pork cutlets h, la soubise; grill- ed mushrooms. Second Course.—Braised turkey ; haunch of mutton; boiled capon and oysters; tongue, garnished with tufts of broccoli; vegetables and salads. Third Course. — Wild ducks; plovers; orange jolly; clear jelly; Charlotte Russe; Nesselrode pudding; giUeau de riz ; sea- hole i maids of honour; dessert and ices. February—Bills of Fare - /n. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Palestine soup ; J Dory, with Dutch sauce; red rnu with sauce G6iioiso. EiUrees.—Sw bread cutlets, with poivraile sauce ; \ au l{(?chamel. Second Course.— li< saddle of mutton; boiled capon oysters; boiled tongue, garnished . Brussels sprouts. Third Course.—(.'. '" nea-fowls ; ducklings; pain de rhuba, _ orange jelly ; strawberry cream ; chew ^ cakes; almond pudding; fig puddLj dessert and ices. i. T': Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Mock turtle soup ; lets of turbot h la crSme ; fried fille soles and anchovy sauce. Entree. Larded fillets of rabbits; tendrons veau with pur^e of tomatoes. Sec^ * Course.—Stewed rump of beef k la Jas nfere ; roast fowls ; boiled ham. TlH Course.—Roast pigeons or larks; r- barb tartlets; meringues; clear jel cream ; ice pudding; souffle ; des; and ices. Dinners for 6 persons. First Course.—Rice soup ; red mul with Gfinoise sauce; fried sme Entrees.—Fowl pudding ; sweetbrej Second Course.—Roast turkey and f sages; boiled leg of pork; pease piiddi Third Course.—Lemon jelly ; Chark ^ la vanille; maids of honour; pli pudding, removed by ice puddii dessert. First Course.— Spring soup; boi turbot and lobster sauce. Entria Fricasseed rabbit; oyster patties. Sec\ Course.—Boiled round of beef and u: j row-bones; roast fowls, garnished w« water-cresses and rolled bacon ; vecrc bles. Third Course.—SLirrow puddii cheesecakes; tartlets of greengage ja lemon cream ; rhubarb tart; dessert. First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; fr whitings ; stewed eels. Entrees.—Poi h, la Marengo ; breast of veal stufled f rolled. Second Course. — Hoast leg pork and apple sauce ; boiled capon f oysters; tongue, garnished with tuft.' broccoli. Third Cottrse.—\\i\d dut;] lobster salad ; Charlotte aux pomnn pain do rhubai"b ; vanilla cream; oral ■ jelly; 4essort.119 THE DICTIONAIIY Of COOKEM. February, Plain Family Dinners '^irst Cojfrse.—Ox-tail soup; cod k la me ; fried soles. Entrees.—Lark pud- g; fowl scollops. Second Course.— ast leg of mutton ; boiled turkey and ery sauce ; pigeon pie ; small ham, led and garnished; vegetables. Third i.rse.—Game, when liked ; tartlets of pberry jam ; vol-au-vent of rhubarb ; iss cream ; cabinet pudding; broccoli 1 sea-kale; dessert. 'BRUAIIT, Plain Family Din- ners for. haiday.—1. Ox-tail soup. 2. Roast :f, Yorkshire pudding, broccoli, pota- s. 3. Plum-pudding, apple tart. 3ese. Monday.—1. Fried soles, plain melted -ter, and potatoes. Cold roast beef, shed potatoes. 3. The remains of m-pudding cut in slices, warmed, and ved with sifted sugar sprinkled over Cheese. Tuesday.—1. The remains of ox-tail ip from Sunday. 2. Pork cutlets h tomato sauce; bashed beef. 3. lied jam pudding. Cheese. Vednesday.—1. Boiled haddock and in melted butter. 2. Rump-steak Iding, potatoes, greens. 3. Arrow- t, blancmange, garnished with jnm. Hiursday. — 1. Boiled leg of pork, ens, potatoes, pease pudding. 2. jile fritters, sweet macaroni. 'riday.—1. Pea-soup made with liquor t the pork was boiled in. 2. Cold k, mashed potatoes. 3. Baked rice Iding. Saturday.—1. Broiled herrings and stard sauce. 2. Haricot mutton. Macaroni, either served as a sweet Iding or with cheese. lunday.—1. Carrot soup. 2, Boiled of mutton and caper sauce, mashed nips, roast fowls, and bacon. 3. mson tai-t made with bottled fruit, afia pudding. \fom.day.—l. The remainder of fowl ried and served with rice; rump- aka and oyster sauce, cold mutton. Rolled jam pudding. Tuesday.—1. Vegetable soup made h liquor the mutton was boiled in on iday. 2. Roast surloin of beef, York- re pudding, broccoli, and potatoes. 3. 3e8e. Vednesday.—1. Fried soles, melted .ter. Cold beef and mashed potatoes : Fennel Sauce if there is any cold mutton left, cut it into neat slices and warm it in a little caper sauce. 2. Apple tart. Thursday.—1. Boiled rabbit and onion sauce, stewed beef and vegetables, made with the remains of cold beef and bones. 2. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Roast leg of pork, sage and onions and apple sauce, greens and potatoes. 2. Spinach and poached eggs instead of pudding. Cheese and water- , cresses. _ Saturday.—1. Rump-steak and kidney pudding, cold pork and mashed potatoes. 2. Baked rice pudding. FEBRITAHY, Things in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp; cod may be bought, but is not so good, as in January; crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, place, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, tur- bot, whiting. Meat. — Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, veal. Poultry. — Capons, chickens, duck- lings, tame and wild pigeons, pullets with eggs, turkeys, wild-fowl, though now not in full season. Game. — Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcock. Vegetables.—Beetroot, broccoli (purple and white), Brussels sprouts, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucum- bers (forced), endive, kidney-beans, let- tuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spi- nach, turnips—various herbs. Fruit.— Apples (golden and Dutch pippins), grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears (Bon ChriSuen), walnuts, dried fruits (foreign), such as almonds and raisins; French and Spanish plums; prunes, figs, dates, crystallized preserves. FENNEL SAUCE, for Mackerel. Ingredients.—1 pint of melted butter, rather more than 1 tablespoonful of chopped fennel. Mode.—MakQ the melt- ed butter very smooth, chop the fennol rather small, carefully cleansing it from any grit or dirt, and put it to the butter when this is on the point of boiling. Simmer for a minute or two, and servo in a tureen. Time.—2 minutes. Average cost, id. SuJHcient tc serce with 5 or' 6 mackerel.TEE DICTIONARY OP COOKEltY, 120 Fig Pudding FIG PUDDING. Ingredienis.—2 lbs. of figs, 1 lb. of Buet, i lb. of flour, }, lb. of bread cmmb.s, 2 eggs, milk. Moie.—Cwt the figs into Email pieces, grato the bread finely, and chop the suet very small; mix tliesc well together, add the flour, the eggs, which should be well beaten, and suSicient milk to form the whole into a stiff paste ; but- ter a mould or basin, press the pudding into it very closely, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours, or rather longer; turn it out of the mould, and serve ;vith melted butter, wine-sauce, or cream. Time,—3 hours, or longer. Ave- rage cost, 2s. Sufficient for 7 or 8 per- sons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter pudding. FIG PUDDING (Staflfordsliire Kecipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of figs, 6 oz. of suet, f lb. of flour, milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix with it the flour, and make these into a smooth paste with milk ; roll it out to the thickness of about \ inch, cut the figs in small pieces, and strew them over the paste ; roll it up, make the ends secure, tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it from 1^ to 2 hours. Time.—15 to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. \d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. »S^ea- sonahle at any time. FIGS, Compote of Green. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, li pint of green figs, the rind of A lemon. Mode. —Make a syrup as directed, boiling with it the lemon-rind, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Put in the figs, and simmer them very slowly until ten- der ; dish them on a glass dish ; reduce the syrup by boihng it quickly for 5 COMPOTE OF FIGS. minutes; take out the lemon-peel, pour the syrup over the figs, and the conipCte, when cold, will be ready for table. A little port wine, or lemon-juice, added just before the figs are done, will be found an improvement. Time.—2 to 3 hours to stew the figs. Average cost, figs, 2s. to 3,9. per dozen. Seasonable in August and September. Fish, General Directions F-ISH. Fish shortly before they spawn a in general, best in condition. Wb the spawning is just over, they are c of season, and unfit for human food. When fish is out of season, it has transparent, bluish tinge, howevei mu it may bo boiled ; whenever it is in f< son, its muscles are fii-m, and boil wh and curdy. As food for invalids, wliito fish, su as the ling, cod, haddock, coal fisb, a whiting, are the best; flat fish, as so! skate, turbot, and flounders, are a good. Salmon, mackerel, herrings, and trc • soon spoil or decompose after they ! killed; therefore, to be in perfectic they should bo prepared for the tal on the day they are caught. With f fish, this is not of such consequence, they will keep longer. The turbot, • example, is improved by being kept :: a few hours. FISH, General Directions i Dressing. In dressing fish of any kind, the fi point to bo attended to, is to see that is perfectly clean. It is a common en ■ to wash it too much, as by doing so t flavour is diminished. If the fish is to boiled, a little salt and vinegar shoi be put into the water, to give it firmne after it is cleaned. Cod-fish, whitir and haddock, are none the worse 1 being a little salted, and kept a da and, if the weather be not very hot, ihi' will be good for two days. When fish is cheap and plentiful, a a larger quantity is purchased than immediately wanted, the overplus of su as will bear it should be potted, pickled, or salted, and hung up ; or may be fried, that it niay serve for ste ing the next day. Fresh-water fis having frequently a muddy smell a' taste, should be soaked in stronjj salt ai ' water, after it has been well cleaned, of a suflficient size, it may be scalded salt and water, and afterwards dried ai dressed. Fish should be put into cold water ai ] '• set on the fire to do very gently, or titi » outside will break before tlie inner pa is done. Unless the fislies are sina they should never bo put into war water ; nor should water, either hot cold, be poured on to the fish, as it121 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Fish, General Directions )le to break the skin ; if it should be ossary to add a little water whilst the is cooking, it ought to be poured in itly at the side of the vessel. _ The -plate may be drawn up, to see if the be ready, which may bo known by easily separating from the bone. It uld then be immediately taken out of water, or it will become woolly. The -plate should be set crossways over kettle, to keep hot for serving, and oth laid over the fish, to prevent its ng its colour. n garnishing fish great attention is uii-ed, and plenty of parsley, horse- ish, and lemon should be used. If d parsley bo used, it must be washed picked, and thrown into fresh water, on the lard or dripping boils, thi'ow parsley into it immediately from the cr, and instantly it will be green and p, and must be taken up with a slice, en well done, and with very good 36, fish is more appreciated than ost any other dish. The liver and in some instances, should be placed the dish, in order that they may be ributed in the course of serving; but ach recipe will be appended the pro- mode of serving and garnishing. ' fish is to be fried or broiled it must dried in a nice soft cloth after it is . cleaned and washed. If for fi-ying, sh it over with egg, and sprinkle it 1 some fine crumbs of bread. If done cond time with the egg and bread, the will look so much the better. If re- •ed to bo very nice, a sheet of white ting-paper must be placed to receive ;hat it may be free from all grease ; ust also be of a beautiful colour, and he crumbs appear distinct. Butter 3 a bad colour; lard and clarified ping are most frequently used; but is the best, if the expense be no etion. The fish should be put into lard when boiling, and there should sufficiency of this to cover it. ^ben fish is broiled, it must be sea- id, floured, and laid on a very clean iron, which, when hot, sliuuld be )cd with a bit of suet, to prevent the from sticking. It must be broiled ■ a very clear fire, that it may not e smoky ; and not too near, that it not be scorched. 1 choosing fish, it is well to remember i it is possible it may be fresh, and not good. Under the head of each icxilar fish in this work, are appended Fish and Oyster Pie rules for its choice, and the months when it is in season. Nothing can be of greater consequence to a cook than to have the fish good ; as, if this important coursu in a dinner does not give satisfaction, it is rarely that the repast goes off well. FISH, General Directions for Carving. In carving fish, care should be taken to help it in perfect flakes, as, if these are broken, the beauty of the fish is lost. The carver should be acquainted, too, with the choicest parts and morsels; and to give each guest an equal share of these titbits should be his maxim. Steel knives and forks should on no account be used in helping fish, as these are liable to impart to it a very disagreeable flavour. When silver fish-carverS are considered too dear to be bought, good electro- plated ones answer very well, and are inexpensive. FISH CAKE. Ingredients.—The remains of any cold fish, 1 onion, 1 faggot of sweet herbs ; salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of water, equal quantities of bread - crumbs and cold potatoes, h teaspoonful of parsley, 1 egg, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the bones of the fish, which latter put, with the head and fins, into a stewpan with the water; add pepper and salt, the onion and herbs, and stew slowly for gravy about 2 hours; chop the fish fine, and mix it well with bread- crumbs and cold potatoes, adding the parsleyand seasoning; make the whole into a cake with the white of an egg, brush it over vdth egg, cover with bread- crumbs, fry of a light brown ; strain the gravy, pour it over, and stew gently for I of an hour, stirring it carefully once or twice. Serve hot, and garnish with thin slices of lemon and parsley. Time.—h an hour after the gravy is made. FISH AND OYSTEB PIE. [Cold Meat Cookery ] Ingredientx.' —Any remains of cold fisli, such as cod or haddock; 2 dozen oysters, pepper and salt to taste, bread-crumbs sufficient for the quantity of fish ; ^ teaspoonful of g;rated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Mode.—Clear the fish from the bones, and put a layer of it in a pic-dish, which sprinkle with pepper and salt; then a layer of bread crumbs,122 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Fish Pie oysters, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Bepcat this till the dish is quite full. You may form a covering either of broad- crumbs, which should be browned, or puff-paste, which should be cut into long strips, and laid in cross-bars over the fish, with a line of the paste first laid ound tho edge. Before i)utting on iho top, pour in some made melted butter, or a little thin white sauce, and the oyster-liquor, and bake. Time.—If made of cooked fish, | hour ; if made of fresh fish and ijuff-paste, ^ hour. Average cost, \s. 6d. Seasonable from September to April. Hole.—A nice little dish may be made by flaking any cold fish, adding a few oysters, seasoning with pepper and salt, and covering with mashed potatoes; J hour will bake it. nSH PIE, with Tench and Eels. Ingredienls.—2 tench, 2 eels, 2 onions, a faggot of herbs, 4 blades of mace, 3 anchovies, 1 pint of water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the yokes of 6 hard-boiled eggs, pufif-paste. Mode.—Clean and bone the tench, skin and bone the eels, and cut them into pieces 2 inches long, and leave the sides of the tench whole. Put the bones into a stewpan with the onions, herbs, mace, anchovies, water, and sea- soning, and let them simmer gently for 1 houi". Strain it ofiF, put it to cool, and skim ofiF all the fat. Lay the tench and eels in a pie-dish, and between each layer Eut seasoning, chopped parsley, and ard-boilofl eggs ; poiu" in part of the strained liquor, cover in with puff-paste, and bake for ^ hour or rather more. The oven should be rather quick, and when done, heat the remainder of the liquor, which pour into the pie. Time.—^ hour to bake, or rather more if the oven is slow. FISH SAUCE. Ingredients.—1.] oz. of cayenne, 2 ta- blospoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 2 table- spoonfuls of soy, a few shreds of garlic and shalot, 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.— Put all tho ingredients into a largo bottle, and shake well every day for a fortnight. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, and in a few days it will be fit for use. A verage cost, for this quantity, ]«. FISH, Scalloped. [Cold Meat Cooiceby.] Ingredients.— Flounders, Boiled t i. m Remains of cold fii-h of any sort, h \ of cream, tablespoonful of anclj< sauce, h teaspoonful of made must;) ditto orwalnut ketchup, pepper aud t to taste (the above quantities are for ^ of fish when picked): Vjread-cninn Mode.—Put all the ingredients intc i ^ stewpan, carefully picking the fish fr the bones ; set it on the fire, let it Jit main till neai ly hot, occasionally stir contents, but do not allow it to b When done, put the fi^h into a deep ' or scallop shell, with a good quantity bread-crumbs; place small pieces butter on the top, set in a Dutch o before the fire to brown, or use a s mander. Time.—i hour. Average c exclusive of the cold fish, lOd. FISH, Scalloped. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredie —Any cold fish, 1 egg, milk, 1 la blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespooi of flour, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sai pepper and salt to taste, bread-crunrAr? buiter. Mode.—Pick the fish caref from the bones, and moisten with r and the egg ; add the other ingredie and place in a deep ditch or scallop sht over with bread-crumbs, butter the aud brown before the fire; when q hot, serve. Time.—2() minutes. Ave, cost, exclusive of the cold fish, id. FISH STOCK. Ingredients.— 2 lbs. of beef or • (these can be omitted), any kind of w fish trimmings of fish which are t-c dressed for table, 2 onions, the riu' ^ a lemon, a bunch of sweet herb, carrots, 2 quarts of water. Mode.— up the fish, and put it, with the o* ingredients, into tho water. Sim for 2 hours; skim the liquor carefr and strain it. When a richer stocl wanted, fry the vegetables and before adding the water. Time.—2 ho Average cost, with meat, lOd per qui without, Zd. Noli.—Do not make fish stock I before it is wanted, as it soon turns s»- FLOUNDEES, Boiled. Ingredients.—^Vii^\<i\<int water to a- tho llouudcrs, salt in the proportioi () oz. to each gallon, a little vine; Mode.—Put on a kettle with eno water to cover tho flounders, lay In1"HE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 123 Flounders, Fried. add salt and vinegar in the above jrtions, and when it boils, simmer g-cntly for 5 minutes. They must oil fast, or they will break. Serve plain melted butter, or parsley and !r. Time.—After the water boils, mtes. Average cost, Sd. each. Sea- ile from August to November. )"D"NDERS, Fried. •edients.—Flounders, egg, andbread- bs ; boiling lard. Mode.—Cleanse sh, and, two hours before they are Bd, rub them inside and out with to render them fu'm ; wash and them very dry, di^p them into egg, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs; lem in boiling lard, dish on a hot in, and garnish with crisped pars- Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, ac- ng to size. Average cost, 2>d. each. iiahle from August to November. lent, 1 for each person. )WERS, Almond. jredients.—Puff-paste; to every ^ lb. ,ste allow 3 oz. of almonds, sifted ■, the white of an egg. 3Iode.— the paste out to the thickness of | and, with a_ round fluted cutter, J out as many pieces as may be re- d. Work the paste up again, roll and, with a smaller cutter, stamp onie pieces the size of a shilling. \ the larger pieces over with the 1 of an egg, and place one of the or pieces on each. Blanch and cut monds into strips lengthwise; press slanting into the paste closely round iugs ; and when they are all com- 1, sift over some pounded sugar, bake for about ^ hour or twenty tea. Garnish between the almonds strips of apple jelly, and place in e of the ring a small quantity of berry jam; pile them high on the and sci-ve. Time.—^ hour or 20 tes. Sufficient.—IS or 20 for a dish. naMe at any time. tWERS, to Preserve Cut. Douquct of freshly-cut flowers may reserved alive for a long time by ig them in a glass or vase with fresh in which a little charcoal has been cd, or a small piece of camphor Ivcd. The vase should be set upon to or dish, and covered with a boU- , around the edges of which, when Fondue, Brillat Savarin's it comes in contact with the plate, a little water should be poured to exclude the air. FLOWERS, to Revive after Pack- ing. Plunge the stems into boiling water, and, by the time the water is cold, the flowers will have revived. Then cut afresh the ends of the stems, and keep them in fresh cold water. FONDUE. Ingredients.—i eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese, the weight of 2 in butter ; pepper and salt to taste. il/otZo;.—Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former in a basin, and grate the cheese, or cut it into vei-y thin flakes. Parmesan or Cheshire cheese may be used, which- ever is the most convenient, although the former is considered more suitable for this dish; or an equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small pieces, add to it the other ingre- dients, with sufficient pepper and salt to season nicely, and beat the mixture thoroughly. Well whisk the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly in, and either bake the fondue in a souffle-dish or small round cake-tin. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondue should rise very much. Pin a napkin round the tin or dish, and serve very hot and very quickly. If allowed to stand after it is withdrawn from the oven, the beauty and lightness of this preparation will be entirely spoiled. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. FONDUE, Brillat Savarin's (an ex- cellent Recipe). Ingredients. — Eggs, cheese, butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; weigh the eggs in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Gruyfere cheese, and a piece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well; add the cheese, which should be grated, and the butter, which should be broken into small pieces. Stir these ingredients together with a wooden spoon ; put the mixture into a lined saucepan, place it over the fire, and stir until the substance is thick and soft12i THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Joprocnt of any child whatever. gradually to make its food more i Food for Infanta Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a good sprinkling of epper, and serve the fondue on a very ot silver or metal plate. Do not allow the fondue to remain on the fire after the mi.xture is set, as, if it boils, it will bo entirely spoiled. Brillat Savarin re- commends that some choice Burgundy should be handed round with this dish. We have given this recipe exactly as he recommends it to be made ; but we have tried it with good Cheshire cheese, and found it answer remarkably well. Time. —About 4 minutes to set the mixture. Average cost, for4 persons, lOd. Sufficient. —Allow 1 egg, with the other ingredients in proportion, for 1 person. Seasonable at any time. FOOD FOR INFANTS, and its Preparation. The articles generally employed as food for infants consist of arrowroot, bread, flour, baked flour, prepared groats, fari- naceous food, biscuit-powder, biscuits, tops-and-bottoms, and semolina, or manna croup, as it is otherwise called, which, like tapioca, is the prepared pith of certain vegetable substances. Of this list the least efficacious, though, perhaps, the most believed in, is arrowroot, which only as a mere agent, for change, and then only for a very short time, should ever be employed as a means of diet to infancy or childhood. It is a thin, flatu- lent, and innutritious food, and incapable of supporting infantine life and energy. Bread, though the universal regime with the labouring poor, where the infant's stomach and digestive powers are a re- flex, in miniature, of the father's, should never be given to an infant under three months, and, even then, however finely beaten up and smoothly made, is a very questionable diet. Flour, when well boiled, though infinitely better than arrowroot, is still only a kind of fer- mentative paste, that counteracts its own good by after-acidity and flatulence. Baked flour, when cooked into a pale brown mass, and finely powdered, makes a far superior food to the others, and may be considered as a very useful diet, especially for a change. Prepared groats may be classed with arrowroot and raw flour, as being inuutritious. The articles that now follow on our list are all good, and such as wo could, with conscience and safety, ti-ust to the health and dovo- Food for Infants Wo m.ay observe in this place, that « occasional change in the character of ; ; food is highly desirable, both as rega.i a the health and benefit of the child ; a.: though the interruption should o i last for a day, the change will be . vantageous. The packets sold as farinaceous f( are unquestionably the best aliment t . can be given from the first to a baby,; . may be continued, with the exceptioi an occasional change, without alterat of the material, till the child is able take its regular meals of animal : - vegetable food. Some infants are constituted as to require a frequent : a total change in their system of livi seeming to thrive for a certain time any food given to them, but if perseve in too long, declining in bulk and pearance as rapidly as they had previoi. ^. progressed. In such cases, the ffi j . should be immediately changed, ; i , when that which appeared to as^ree lii with the child is resumed, it shouldu jjj^" altered in its quality, and perhaps van ^ consistency. For the farinaceous food there ^, directions with each packet, contain • instructions for the making ; but, wl ever the food emploj'ed is, enough she be made at once to last the day night; at first, about a pint basin. but, as the child advances, a quart hardly be too much. In all cases, . the food boil a suflicient time, constai stirring, and taking every prccau' that it does not get burnt, in which (. it is on no account to be used. The food should always be made tt water, the whole sweetened at once, of such a consistency that, when poi out, and it has had time to cool, it cut with the firmness of a pudding, custard. One or two spoonfuls are tr^ put into the pap saucepan and s;ooc: . ' the hob till the heat has softened ^ when enough milk is to be added, carefully mixed with the food, till , whole has the consistency of ordir cream ; it is then to be poured into nursing-bottle, and the food ha- drawn through to warm the ni: to be placed in the child's mouiii. » the first month or more, half a botth* will be quite enough to give the •' at one time ; but, as the child frrow^ will be necessary not only to iii< ' quantitj' given at each time,THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 125 Forcemeats. tent, and, after the third month, to i an egg to every pint basin of food de. At night, the mother puts the d into the covered pan of her lamp, lead of the saucepan—that is, enough one supply, and, having lighted the h, she will find, on the waking of her Id, the food sufficiently hot to bear cooling addition of the milk. But, 3tber night or day, the same food uld never be heated twice, and what child leaves should be thrown away, 'he biscuit powder is used in the same iner as the fai-inaceous food, and both pared much alter the fashion of iing starch. But when tops-and- :oms, or the whole biscuit, are em- I, they require soaking in cold or some time previouslj' to boiling, scuit or biscuits are then to be boiled in as much water as will, thoroughly soft, allow of their beaten by a three-pronged fork ine, smooth, and even pulp, and when poured into a basin and 3 cold, will cut out like a custard, large biscuits have been so treated, 3 child is six or seven months old, ) two eggs, sufficient sugar to pro- iweeten it, and about a pint of nilk. Pour this on the beaten in the saucepan, stirring con- ; boil for about five minutes, pour basin, and use, when cold, in the lanner as the other, makes an admirable food, at once Dus and strengthening. When id-bottoms or rusks are used, the ;y of the egg may be reduced, or her omitted. )lina, or manna croup, being in ard grains, like a fine millet-seed, )0 boiled for some time, and the ugar, and egg added to it on the d boiled for a few minutes longer, ben cold, used as the other pre- ins. jr persons entertain a belief that milk is hurtful to infants, and, uently, refrain from giving it; s is a very groat mistake, for both ind milk should form a large por- every meal an infant takes. 3EMEATS. points which cooks should, in this of cookery, more particularly ), are the thorough chopping of at, the complete mincing of the Forcemeat, French herbs, the careful grating of the bread- crumbs, and the perfect mixing of the whole. These are the three principal ingredients of forcemeats, and they can scarcely be cut too small, as nothing like a lump or fibre should be auywhei'a perceptible. To conclude, the flavour of no one spice or herb should be permitted to predominate. FOKCEMEAT BALLS, for Fish Soups. Ingredients.—1 middling-sized lobster, I an anchovy, 1 head of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste ; 4 table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell of the lobster, and pound it, with the soft parts, in a mortar ; add the celery, the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, seasoning, and bread-crumbs. Con- tinue pounding till the whole is nicely amalgamated. Warm the butter till it is in a liquid state ; well whisk the eggs, and work these up with the pounded lobster-meat. Make the balls of about an inch in diameter, and fry of a nice pale brown. Sufficient, from 18 to 20 balls for 1 tureen of soup. FOKCEMEAT, French. It will be well to state, in the beginning of this recipe, that French forcemeat, or quenelles, consist of the blending of three separate processes ; namely, panada, udder, and whatever meat you intend using. Panada. Ingredients.—The crumb of 2 penny rolls, 4 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 1 oz. of butter, 1 slice of ham, 1 bay-leaf, a little minced parsley, 2 shalots, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, a few mushrooms, butter, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Soak the crumb of the rolls in milk for about ^ hour, then take it out, and squeeze so as to press the milk from it; put the soaked bread into a stewpan with the above quantity of white stock, and set it on'bne side ; then Eut into a separate stewpan 1 oz. of utter, a slice of lean ham cut small, with a bay-leaf, herbs, mushrooms, spices, &c., in the above proportions, and fry them gently over a slow fire. When done, moisten with 2 teacupfuls of white stock, boil for 20 minutes, and strain the whole through a sieve over the panada-126 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Forcemeat for Cold Savoury Pies. in the other stowpan. Place it over the fire, keep constantly stirring, to prevent its burning, and, when quite dry, put in a small piece of butter. Let this again dry up by stirring over the fire; then add the yolks of 2 eggs, mix well, put the panada to cool on a clean plate, and use it when rec^uired. Panada should always bo well llavoured, as the force- meat receives no taste from any of the other ingredients used in its preparation. Boiled Calf's Udder for French Forcemeat.—Put the udder into a stewpan with suflicient water to cover it; let it stew gently till quite done, when take it out to cool. Trim all the upper parts, cut it into small pieces, and pound ■well in a mortar, till it can be rubbed through a sieve. That portion which passes tlirough the strainer is one of the three ingredients of which French force- meats are generally composed ; but many cooks substitute butter for this, being a less troublesome and more expeditious mode of preparation. FORCEMEAT, for Cold Savoury Pies. Ingredients.—1 lb. of veal, 1 lb. of fat bacon ; salt, cayenne, pepper, and pounded mace to taste; a very little nutmeg, the same of chopijed lemon-peel, ' ^ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, h tea- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, I or 2 eggs. Mode.—Chop the veal and bacon J;ogether, and put them into a mortar with the other ingredients mentioned above. Pound well, and bind with 1 or 2 eggs ■which have been previously beaten and strained. Work the whole well together, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. If the pie is not to be eaten immediately, omit the herbs and parsley, as these will prevent it from keeping. Mushrooms or truffles may be added. Sufficient for 2 small pies. FORCEMEAT, for Pike, Carp, Had- dock, and various Kinds of Fish. Ingredients.—1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of suet, 1 oz. of fat bacon, 1 small tea- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, in- cluding parslcj'; a little onion, when liked, shredded very fine ; salt, nutmeg, and ciyenne to taste ; 4 oz. of bread- crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Mix all the in- gredients well together, carefully mincing them very finely; beat up the egg, Forcemeat Veal moisten with it, and work the whole ver smoothly together. Oysters oranchovi< may be added to this forcemeat, and wi be found a great improvement, A n , " coat, (id. Sufficient for a moderate-bizi haddock or pie. FORCEMEAT, for Baked Pike. Ingredients. —3 oz. of bread-crumb 1 teaspoonful of minced savoury herl 8 oysters, 2 anchovies (these may be d pensed with), 2 oz. of suet; salt, pepf and pounded mace to taste; 6 tabl spoonfuls of creain or milk, the yolks 2 eggs. Mode.—Bea.r<X and mince t: oysters, prepare and mix the other ingi dients, and blend the whole thorough together. ^Rloisten with the cream ai eggs, put all into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till it thickens, when put into the fish, which should have pi viously been cut open, and sew it ii Time.—4 or 5 minutes to thicken. A age cost, lOd. Suffixnent for a moderal sized pike. FORCEMEAT, or QUENELLIEI?. for Turtle Soup. (Soyer's cipe.) Take a pound and a half of lean vxi ^ from the tillet, and cut it in long tlif shoes ; scrape with a knife till nothi but the fibre remains ; put it into a m tar, pound it 10 minutes, or until in purge ; pass it through a wire sieve (i the remainder in stock); then take pound of good fresh beef suet, whi skin, shred, and chop very fine ; put into a mortar and pound it; then >,] 6 oz. of panada (that is, bread saaked l miik and boiled till nearly dry) wiih 1 ' suet; pound them well together, 8 41)) add the veal; season with a teaspoor of salt, a quarter one of pepper, 1 that of nutmeg ; work all well toj-ofh then add four eggs by degrees, cenli ally pounding the contents of the niorl When well mixed, take a small piece a spoon, and poach it in some boil water ; and if it is delicate, firm, ant a good flavour, it is ready fcr use. FORCEMEAT VEAL, or XTB- QUENELLES. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of v pan.ada, and calfs udder, 2 egL. : i soning to taste of pepper, bhU, pounaed mace, or grated nutmegTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 127 Forcemeat for Veal ;tle flour. Mode.—T&ke the fleshy vrt of veal, scrape it with a knife, till I the meat is separated from the sinews, id allow about | lb. for an entree, hop the meat, and'pound it in a mortar II reduced to a paste ; then roll it into ball; make another of panada the same se, and another of udder, taking care at these three balls be of the same :e. (It is to be remembered, that equa- ,y of size, and not of weight,, is here ;cessary.) When the three ingredients e properly prepared, pound them alto- ither'in a mortar for some time; for e more quenelles are pounded, the ore delicate they are. Now moisten th the eggs, whites and yolks, and utiuue pounding, adding a seasoning pepper, spices, &c. When the whole well blended together, mould it into lis, or whatever shape is intended, 11 them in flour, and poach in boiling iter, to which a little salt should have en added. If the quenelles are not m enough, add the yolk of another g, but omit the white, which only ikes them hollow and puffy inside. the preparation of this recipe, it uld be well to bear in mind that the jredients are to be well pounded and isoned, and must be made hard or soft jordiug to the dishes they are intended '. For brown or white ragofits they )uld be firm, and when the quenelles i used very small, extreme delicacy II be necessary in their preparation, eir flavour may be varied by using the ih. of rabbit, fowl, hare, pheasant, )use, or an extra quantity of mush- )m, parsley, &c. )HCEMEAT for Veal, Tiirkeys, Fowls, Hare, &c. 'ngredients.—2 oz. of ham or lean !on, i lb. of suet, the rind of half a ion, 1 tcaspoonful of minced parsley, ;easpoonful of minced sweet herbs; t, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste; z. or bread-crumbs, 2 eggs. Mode.— -ed the ham or bacon, chop the suet, lon-peol, and herbs, taking particular e that all be very finely minced ; add leasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, i mace, and blend all thoroughly to- her with the bread-crumbs, before iting. Now-boat and strain the eggs ; rk these up wilh the other ingredients, I the forcemeat will be ready for u.so. len IL ia made into balls, fry of a iJco Fowls, Boiled, to Carve brown, in boiling lard, or put them on a tin and bake for ^ hour in a moderate oven. As we have stated before, no one flavour should predominate greatly, and the forcemeat should be of sufficient body to cut with a knife, and yet not dry and heavy. For very delicate force- meat, it is advisable to pound the ingre- dients together before binding with the eggs ; but for ordinary cooking, mincing very finely answers tUe-purpose. Aver- age cost, 8d. Sufficient for a turkey, a moderate-siaed fillet of'veal, or a hare. Note.—In the forcemeat for Hare, the liver of the animal is sometimes added. Boil for 5 minutes, mince it very small, and mix it with the other ingredients. If it should be in an'unsound state, it must be on no account made use of. FOWLS, BoUed, a la Bechamel. Ingredients.—A pair of fowls, 1 pint of Bechamel, afew bunchesof boiled broccoli or cauliflower. Mode.—Truss and boil the flowers; make a pint of Bechamel sauce ; pour some of this over the fowls, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Garnish the dish with bunches of boiled cauliflowers or broccoli, and serve very hot. The sauce should be made sufiiciently thick to adhere to the fowls ; that for the tureen should be thinned by adding a spoonful or two of stock. Time.—From ^ to 1 houi-, ac- cording to size. Average cost, in full season, 5s. a paif. Sufficietit for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. FOWLS, BoHed, to Carve. This will not be found a very difficult member of the poultry ftimily to carve, unless, as may happen, a very old farm- yard occupant, useless for egg-laying purposes, has, by some unlucky introduced into ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ chicken " ^Skilf, boiled fowl. however, and the application of a small amount of strength, combined with a fine keeping of the temper, will even get over that dif- ficulty. Fixing the fork firmly in the bjpast, let the knife be firmly passed along the line shown from 1 to 2; then cut downwards from that line to fig. 3;THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 123 Fowls, Boiled, to Carve LEG, WING, AND RBCKBONB OF FOWL. and the wing, it will bo found, can ho oa-sily with.irawn. Tho sliJipe of tho wing sliould bo like tho accompanying engraving. Lot the fork bo placed in- Bide tho leg, which should bo gently forced away li-om the body of tho fowl; and tho joint, being thus discovered, the carver can readily cut through it, and the leg can bo served. When the leg is displaced, it should be of the same shape as that shown in the an- nexed woodcut. Tho legs and wings on either side having been taken off, the carver should draw his knife through the flesh in the direction of the line 4 to 5; by this means the knife can be sUpped underneath the meirythought, which, being lifted up and pressed backward, will immediately come off. The collar- or neck-bones ai'e the next to consider: these lie on each side of the merry- thought, close under the upper part of the wings; and, in order to free these from the fowl, they must also be raised by the knife at their broad end, and turned from the body towards the breast- bone, until the shorter piece of the bone, as dhown in the cut, breaks off. There will now be left only the breast, with the ribs. The breast can be, without diffi- culty, disengaged from the ribs by cut- ting through the latter, which will offer little impediment. The side bones are now to bo taken off ; and to do this, the lower end of the back should be turned from tho carver, who should press the point of the knife through the top of the backbone, near the centre, bringing it down towards the end of the back com- pletely through the bone. If the knife be now turned in the opposite direction, the joint will be easily separated from tho vertebra!. The backbono being now uppei-most, the fork should bo pressed firmly down on it, whilst at the same time the knifo should be employed in raising up the lower small end of the fowl towards tho fork, and thus the back will bo dislocated about ita middle. The wings, breast, and Fowls, Boiled [It 'il merrythought are esteemed the prii parts of a fowl, and are usuaDy serv to tho ladies of the company, to whi logs, except as a maiter of paranion necessity, should not be idven. By gave it as one re;ison why he did like dining with ladies, that they alwa had the wings of the fowls, which himself preferred. We heard a ueni man who, when he might have ha<i wing, declare his partiality for a le saying that he had been obliged to i legs for so long a time that he had last come to like them better than t other more prized parts. If the fowl capon-like, very large, slices may carved from itsbreastin the samemann as from a turkey's. FOWL, Boiled, with Oystei (Excellent.) Ingredients.—1 young fowl, 3 doz oysters, the yolks of 2 eggs, | pint cream. Mode.—Truss a young fowl for boiling; fill the inside with oyste^idi which have been bearded and washed their own liquor; secure the ends of t fowl, put it into ajar, and plunge the; into a saucepan of boiling water. Ke it boiling for 1^ hour, or rather long€ then take the gravy that has flowed frr the oysters and fowl, of which there y be a good quantity; stir in tho creti and yolks of eggs, add a few oyst" scalded in their liquor ; let the sauce f quite hot, but do not allow it to h(r- \ pour some of it over tho fowl, and ttiv- remainder send to table in a tureen, blade of pounded mace added to 1 \ sauce, with the cream and eggs, will ' found an improvement. Time.—li ha^'^ Average cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 3 o persons. Seasonable from Septemberr April. ai J Hi FOWLS, Broiled, and Mushroc; Sauce. Ingrcdients.~A. large fowl; seasoniii to taste, of pepper and salt, 2 handf.i ' of button mushrooms, 1 slice of lean ha' " £ pinb of thickened gravy, 1 teaspoou i of lemon juice, h teaspoonful of pounc sugar. Mode.—Cnt the fowl into qu ters, roast it until three-parts do and keep it well basted whilst at fire. Tako tho fowl up, broil it fo few minutes over a clear fire, and sea it with pepper and salt. Have some mushroom sauce made iu tho re£ I he : i: i\THE dictionahy of cookery. 129 Fowl, Boilori, and Hice ;vingmanner. Put tlic niiislirooras into itowpaii with a small |>icce vf butrcr, 0 liniii, a suasouinguf i)Oiipcr and salt, il the gravy; simmer these gently for inur, ailtl iho lemon-juice Jiml sugar, ih the fowl, and pour the sauce mund ;m. Time.—To roast the fowl, 35 nules ; to broil it, 10 to 15 minutes. erar/e co.ol, in full season, 2s. 6d. Snffi- iit for 4 or 5 persons. Seasnnahle.— full season from May to January. )WL, Boiled, and Bice. 'iirjredien(s.—l fowl, mutton broth, 2 ons, 2 small blades of pounderl mace, ipcr an'l salt to taste, ^ pint of rico, sley and butter. Mode.—Truss the 1ms for boiling, and put it into a stow- 1 with sufficient clear well-skimmed tton broth to cover it; add the < nion, 30, and a seasoning of pepper and ,; stew very gently for about 1 hour, uld the fowl be largo, and about ^ V before it is ready put in the rice, cli should be well washed and snaked, cn the latter is tender, strain it from liquor, and put it on a sieve reversed ry before the fire, and, in the mean 3, keep the fowl hot. Dish it, put rice roirad as a border, pour a little ;ley and butter over the fowl, and the ainder send to table in a tureen. e.—A largo fowl, 1 lioiir. Avenvje 2s. (id. ^ujlicieiit for 3 or 4 persons. onable all the year. WLS, to Bone, for Fricassees, Curries, and Pies. rst carve them entirely into joints, remove the bones, beginning with the and wings, at the head of the largest !; hold this with the fingers, and : the knife as directed in the recipe e. The remainder of the birds is easily done to require any iustruc- ^li. Croquettes of (an Entr6e). jreilients.—Z or 4 shalots, 1 oz. of ;r, 1 teaspoon fill of floi.r, white 5; pepper, salt, and pounded mace ste ,* !, tcaspoouful of pounded sugar, e i.aius of coM roast fowls, the yolks iggs, egg, atid bread-crumbs. Mode. nco the fowl, carefully removing all and bono, and fry the shalots in the r; add the minced fowl, drcdgo in our, put in the popper, salt, mace, ' Fowl, Curried pounded sugar, and sufficient white sauco to moisten it,; stir to it the yolks of 2 well-boaten Gg^s, and set it by to cool. Then make the mixture up int<s balls, egg and bi'ead-crumb them, and fry a nice brown 'I'hey may bo served on a "border of mashed jiotatous, with aravj or sauce in the centre. Time.—10 mi- nutes to fiy the balls. Seasonable at any time. FOWL AKTD RICE, Croquettes ol (an Entree), Ingredients.—^ lb. of rice, 1 quart of stock or broth, 3 oz. of butter, minced fowl, egg, and bread-crumbs. Mode.— Put the rice into the above proportion of cold stock or broth, and let it boil very gently for K hour; then add tho butter, and simmer it till quite dry and soft. When cold, make it into balls, hoUovv ont the inside, and fill with minced fowl made by recipe. Tho mince shoidd bo rather thick. Cover over with rice, dip the balls into egg, sprinkle them with bread- crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Dish them, and garnish with fned parsley. Oysters, white sauce, or a littlo cream, may bo stirred into the rice before it cools. Time.—^ hour to boil the rico, 10 minutes to fry the croquettes. Ave- rage cost, cxchisive of the fowl, ?>d. Sea- sonable at any time. FOWL, Curried. Ingredients.—\ fowl, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions sliced, 1 pint of white veal gravy, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 table- spoonful of flour, 1 api>le, 4 tablespoon- fuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice. il/o(/e.—Put the butter into a stcwpan, with the onions sliced, the fowl cut into small joints, and t^lio apple peeled, cored, and minced. Fry of a pale brown, add the stock, and stew gently for 20 minutes; rub down the cuiTy-powder and flour with a littlo of tho gravy, quite smoothly, and stir this to tho other ingredients; simmer for rather more than h hour, and just before serving, add the a'hovo proportion of hot cream and letuon-juico. Servo with boiled rice, which may either be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or put round the curry as a border. Time. —50 mi- nutes. Average cost, Zs. dd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in the winter. iVote.—This ciirry may be made of cold 6130 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Fowl, Fricasseed chickon, but iindrossod moat will bo found far superior. FOWL, Fricasseed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 1 blade of pounded mace, i bunch of siivoury herbs, 1 onion, pep- per and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of flour, i pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Carvo the fowls into nice joints; make gravy of tho trim- mings and legs, by stewing them with tho lemon-peel, mace, herbs, onion, sea- soning, and water, until reduced to ^ pint; then strain, and put in the fowl. Warm it thi'ough, and thicken with a teaspoonful of tloiir ; stir the yolks of the eggs into the cream ; add these to tho sauce, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy, \ hour to warm the fowl. Average cost, exclu- sive of the cold chicken, %d. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Fried. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowls, vine- gar, salt and cayenne to taste, or 4 minced shalots. For the batter,—h lb. of flour, h pint of hot water, 2 oz, of butter, the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.— Cut the fowl into nice joints; steep them for an hour in a little vinegar, with salh, cayenne, and minced shalots. Make tha batter by mixing the flour and water smoothly together; melt in it the butter, and add the whites of egg benten to a froth; take out the pieces of fowl, dip them in tho batter, and fry in boiling lard, a nice brown. Pile them high in the dish, and garnish with fried parsley or rolled bacon. When approved, a sauce or gravy may be served with them. Time.—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Ave- rage cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, ^d. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Fried. [Cold Meat Cookeht.] Ingredients. The remains of cold roast fowl, vino- gar, salt and cayenne to taste, 4 minced shalots, yolk of egg; to ovoiy tcacupful of bread-crumbs allow 1 blade of pounded maco, A teaspoonful of minced lemon- peel, I'saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne, il/oc/e.—Steep tho pieces of fowl as in the preceding recipe, then dip Fowl, naslied them into tho yolk of an egg or claiific butter; spi iuklo over l^read'-crumljs wii which have been mixed salt, maco, ca;. enuo, and lemon-peel in tbe above pr portion. Fry a light broivn, and ser' with or without gravy, as may be pr ferred. Time.—10 minutes to fry il'ft' fowl. Average cost, exclusive of the eo fowl, Gd. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Fried, and French, Beanu [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredient —Tho remains of cold roast fowl; tl yolk of 1 egg, 2 oz. of butter, 1 blade pounded maco, { saltspooiiful of gratw nutmeg, bread-crumbs and chopped pa sley. Mode.—Cut the fowl into ne joints, brush them over with tho yo of egg, and sprinkle them with brea crumbs, with which the parsle>/, nutme and mace have been well mixed. Fry tl fowl in the butter until of a nice brow and dish tho pieces on French bea boiled, and afterwards simmered fur minute or two in butter. The di; should be garnished with rolled baco Time.—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Ai rage cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 6 Seasonable from July to September. tdr FOWL au Gratin. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredieru-i —The remains of either cold roast boiled fowl, A pint of Bechamel sauc a dessertspoonful of grated Parmesi- cheese, pepper and salt to taste, | sai ^ spoonful of grated nutmeg, ^ pint cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumt fried potatoes. Mode.—Mince the fc not too finel3'', and make it hot in ti'. Bechamel sauce, to which tho nutm^ >^ pepper and salt, and cream, have boi . ^ added. When well mixed, scn-o til ■'^ fowl on to a dish, cover it with the brea ^ crumbs and Parmesan cheese, drop ov a little clarified butter, and bake in tl oven until of a pale brown. Garnish tl dish with fried potatoes. Time.—10 n nutes to wai-m tho fowl, 10 minutes bako. Seasonable at any time. FOWL, Hashed. An Entree. rCoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredipff^ —The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 fNM' of water, 1 onion, 2 or 3 small carrot \ 1 blado of pounded maco, p pper M ^ salt to taste, 1 small bunch of 6avoi»i ,5)^' it.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 131 Fowl, Hashed ■rhs, thickening of butter and flour, tahlespooiiful of mushroom ketchujx o(/g._Cut otr the best joints from the iv\, and the remainder make into gravy, adding to the bones and ti iinmings a it of w-rtter, an onion sliced and fried a nice brown, the carrot:^, mace, sea- linsr, and herbs. Let these stew gently 1 i hour, strain the liquor, and thicken .ha Utile Hour and butter. Lay in the thoroughly warm it through, add ketchup, and garnish with sippets of sted bread. rtme.—Altogether lur. Avenifje cost, exclusive of the cold jvl, id. Seasonable at any time. )'WTi, Hashecl, Indian PasMon (an Entree). Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. The remains of cold roast fowl, r 4 sliced onions, 1 applo, 2 oz. of ter, pounded mace, pepper and salt tasto, 1 tablespoonful of cixrry- der, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 espoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of nided sugar, 1 pint of gravy. Mode. *'ut the onions into slices, mince apple, and fry these in the butter; il pounded maco, pepper, salt, curry- der, vinegar, flour, and sugar in the vo proportions; when the onion is wn, put in the gravy, which should be viously made from the bones and mings of the fowls, and stew for ^ r; add the fowl cut into nice-sized ts, let it warm through, and when e tcniler, servo. The dish should be nished with an edging of boiled I'ice. le.—1 hoar. Average cost, exclusive he fowl, Sd. Seasonable at any time. ^WIj, an Indian Dish of (an Jntr§e). Cold Meat CooKEnT.] Ingredients. \ho remains of cold roast fowl, 3 or 4 3d onions, 1 tablespoonful of cnrry- [rder, salt to taste. Mode.—Divide fowl into joints; slice and fry the ■)ns in a little butter, taking care not t>urn them ; sprinkle over the fowl a le curry-powder and salt; fry these ply, pile them hijrh in the centre of [dish, cover with the onion, and serve a cut lemon on a plate. Care must taken thiit tho onions are not greasy : should be quite dry, but not burnt. —5 minutes to fry the onions, 10 itos to fry tho fowl, Avei-'i^^ cost, Fowl, Minced exclusive of the fowl, id. Seasonable during the winter months. FOWL h la Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—A cold roast fowl, Mayon- naise sauce, 4 or 5 young lettuces, 4 hard- boiled eggs, a few water-cresses, endive. 3fode.—Cut the fowl into neat joints, lay them in a deep dish, piling them high in the centre, sauce the fowl with Mayon- naise, and garnish the dish with young lettuces cut in halves, water-cresses, en- dive, and hard-boiled eegs: these may be sliced in rings, or laid on the dish whole, cutting off at the bottom a piece of the white, to make the egg stand. All kinds of cold meat and solid fish may be dressed la Mayonnaise, and malce excellent luncheon or supper dishes. The sauce should not be poured over the fowls until the moment of serving. Should a very large Mayonnaise be required, use 2 fowls instead of one, with an equal propi)rtion of the remaining ingredients. A veruge cost, with one fowl, 3s. Gd. »S'm/- ,^fte)i« for a moderate-sized dish. Season- 'able from April to September. FOWL, Minced (an Entree). [C01.D Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowl, 2 hard- boiled oggs, salt, cayenne, and pounded maco, 1 onion, 1 f.iggot of savoury herbs, 6 tabU'spoonfuls of cream, 1 oz. of butter, two teaspoonfuls of flour, h teasi^oonful of fincly-minced lemon-peel, 1 table- spoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Cut out from tho fowl all the white moat, and mince it finely without any skin or bone ; put the bones, skin, and trimmings into a stewpan with an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, a blade of mace, and nearly a pint of water ; let this stew for an hour, then sti-aiu the liquor. Chop the eggs small; mix them with the fowl; add salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, put in the gravy and remaining ingre- dients ; let the whole just boil, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time.— Kather more than 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, %d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Another way to make this is to mince tho fowl, and warm it in white sauce or Bechamel. When dressed like this, 3 or 4 poached eggs may bo placed on the top: oysters, or chopped mush- rooms, or balls of oyster forcemeat, may be laid round ♦Jie dish.THE UICTIOXARY OP COOKEIlY. 133 Fcwl, Mmced FOWL, Minced, b, la Bdchamel. fCoLD Meat Cooicerv.] Iiujrcdients. —Tho remuins of cold roust fowl, G tablo- Bpoonfu's of BiScliamel sauce, G tablc- Bpoonfuls of whito stock, tho white of 1 o<rg, brea'l-crumbs, claiiticd biuter. Mode.—Take the remains of roastfowls, mince tho wiiito meat very small, and put it into a stewpan with tho Bechamel and Btock ; stir it well over tho lire, and just let it boil up. Pour the mince into a dish, beat up the whito of egg, sjiread it over, and strew on it a few grated bread- crumbs ; pour avei'ylittle clarified butter on the whole, and brown either before the fire or v;ith a salamander. This should bo served in a silver dish, if at hand. Time.—2 or 3 minutes to simmer in the sauce. SeasonaUe at any time. FOWL, Bagout of. [Cold Meat Cookery.] IngmVents. — i'he remains of cold roast fowls, 3 sha- lots, 2 blades of mace, a fasrgot of sa- voury herbs, 2 or 3 slices of lean ham, 1 pint of stock or water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 tablespuonful of lemon-juice, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the fowls cp into neat pieces, the same as for a fricassee ; put the trimmings into a stowpan with the sbalots, mace, herbs, ham, onion, and stock (water may bo substituted for this). Boil it slowly for 1 hour, strain the liquor, and jnit a small piece of but- ter into a stewpan ; when melted, drcdgo in sufficient flour to dry up tho butter, and stir it over tho fire. Put, in tho strained liquor, boil for a few minutes, and strain it again over the pieces of fowl. Squeezfe in the lemon-juice, add tho sugar and a seasoning of pepper and salt, make it hot, but do not allow it to boil; lay the fowl neatly on tho dish, and garnish with crofitons. Time.—Al- together \h hour. Average cost, oxclu- Aive of tho cold fowl, 9d. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Hoast. Ingredients.—A pair of fowls, a little flour. Mode.—Fowls, to be tender, should bo killed a cotiplo of days before thej' are dressed ; when tho feathers come out easily ; then let them bo picked and cooked. In drawmg them bo cart ful not to brouk tho pall-bag', as, wherever it Fowl, Hoast, to Carve touches, it would unpart a very bittot tasto; tho liver and gizzard bhould aisc bo preserved. Truss them in the follow, ing maimer:—After having carelull} picked them, cutoff the head, ai<d site wei the sldn of tho neck down over tho back. Cut off tlie claws, dip the legs in boiling water, and scrape tliem ; turn tho pinion: under, run a skewer through them ant tho middle of the legs, which should b< passed through tho body to tho pinioi and leg on the other side, one skewefi securing tho limbs on both sides. Tin. til & nOAST FOWL. liver and-gizzard should ho placed in th wings, tho liver on one side and tho giz zard on the other. Tie the legs togethe by passing a trussing-needle, tbreadc with twine, through the backbone, an'j secure it on tho other side. If trussee liko a capon, the legs are placed nior- apart. When firmly trussed, singe thcc all over ; put them down toabrightclea file, paper tho breasts with a sheeto bnttei'ed paper, and keep the fowls we. basted. I?oast them for ^ hour, more o less, according to the size, and 10 minute ■ before serving, remove tho paper, drcdg the fowls with a little fine tiour, put; piece of butter into the basting-ladle, ana )^ as it melts baste tho fowls with it; whei nicely frothed and of a rich colour, sem with good brown gravy (a little of whic should bo poured over the fowls), and tureen of well-made breail sauce. Must- room, oyster, or egg sauce, are very suil able accompaniments to roast fowl. Chicken is roasted in the same manneir#S ] Time.—A very large fowl, quite 1 Imun 'k.-^, a medium-sized one, ^ hour ; chickeH % J hour, or rather longer. A va-age flMM in full season, 5s. a pair; when scarct 75. Gd. the pair. Snfficient for 6 or sons. Seasonable all the year, but in early spring. ige com fij« scarct ' " r 7 pc! f t scare I FOWL, Hoast, to Carve. A roast fowl is carved in tho sani manner as a boiled fowl, viz., by c ■'■'■^ along tho line from 1 to 2. and then tho leg between it and the winjj markings and detached pieces, as hi the cnijraviugrs under the heading < I133 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUf. Fowl, Boast, StTiflfed BOAST rowii. 3t)ilecl Fowl," supersede the necessity 3\ir lengthily again describing the ope- ~ ration. It may be add- ed, that the liver, being considered a delicacy, luld be divided, and one half served ,h each wing. In the case of a fowl ng stuffed, it will be proper to give ;h guest a portion, unless it bo not ecablo to some one o'f the party. )'W"L, Koast, Stuffed. ngredienis.—A large fowl, forcemeat, it'tle flour. Mode.—Select a largo mp fowl, fill the breast with forcc- it, truss it firmly, tlao same as for a In roast fowl, dredge it with flour, put it down to a bright fire. Roast )r nearly or quite an hour, should it . cry large; remove the skewers, and ^•0 with a good brown gravy and a 3en of bread sauce. Time.—Large |1, nearly or quito 1 hour. Average in full season, 2s. Gd. each. Sufficient 4 or 5 persons. Seasoiiahle aU the |r, but scarce in early spring. Vote.—Sausage-meat stuffing may be itituted : this is now a very general le of serving fowl. [WIj saute with Peas (an lEntr^e). ^OLD Mkat Cookery.] Ingredients. Ihe remains of cold roast fowl, 2 oz. putter, pepper, salt, and pnunded be to taste, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, lint of weak stock, 1 pint of green p, 1 teaspooi.ful of pounded sugar. ie.—Cut the fi>wl into nico pieces; the butter into a stewpan ; sautez fry the fowl a nice brown colour, piously sprinkling it with pepper, , and puunded maco. Dredge in flour, shako the ingredients well id, then add the stock and peas, stew till the latter are tender, th will be in about 20 minutes ; put in pound.3 sugar, and serve, placing cVickcn round, and the peas in I middle of the dish. When liked, tirooms may be substituted for the . Time—Altogether 40 minutes. rage cost, exchisivo of tho fowl, 7d. -nble from Juno to August, French. Terms FOWL SCOLIiOPS. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— Tho remains of culd roast or boiled fowl, h pint of Bechamel, or white sauco, 3/otZe.—Strip off the skin from tho fowl; cut tho meat into thin slices, and warra them in about ^ pint, or rather more, of I3dchamel, or white sauce. When quito hot, servo, and garnish the dish with rolled ham or bacon toasted. Time.—1 minute to simmer the slices of fowl. Seasonable at any time. FBENCH TEKMS used in modern Household Cookei'y, explained. Aspic.—A savoury jelly, used as au exterior moulding for cold game, poultry, fish, &c. This, being of a transparent nature, allows tho article which it covers to be seen through it. This may also be used for decorating or garnishing. AssiETTB (plate).—Assiettes are the small entrees and hors • d'<mcvres, the quantity of which does not exceed what a plate will hold. At dessert, fruits, cheese, chestnuts, biscuits, &c., if served upon a plate, aro termed assiettes.— AssiETTE VOLANTE is a dish which a ser- vant hands round to the guests, but is not placed upon tho table. Small cheese souffles and different dishes, which ought to bo served very hot, aro frequently made assiettes volantes. Au-BLEU.—Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a htidsh appearance. Bain-marie.—An open saucepan or kettle of nearly boiling water, in which a smaller vessel can be set for cooking and warminir. This is very useful for keeping articles hot, without altering their (juantity or quality. _ If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fireside, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and tho sauco thickens as well as re- duces; but this is prevented by using the bain-marie, in which the water should be very hot, but not boiling. BlJCHAMEL.—French white sauce, now frequently used in English cookery, Blanch.—To whiten poultry, vegeta- bles, fruit, &c., by plunging them into boiling water for a short time, and alter- wards plunging them into cold water, there to remain until they are cold. Blanquette.—A sort of fricassee. BouiLLi.—Beef or other meat boiled ; but, generally speaking, boiled beef i» understood by tho term,184 THE DICTTONARY Of COOKEHY. 5*rencli Terms BouiLLiR.—A French dish resembling hasty-imcMing. Bouillon.—A thin broth or soup. BiiAlSE.—To stew moat ivitli fat bacnn until it id tender, it having previously been blanched. BRAisiJ:itE.—A saucepan having a lid vilh lodges, to put fire on the top. Brideu. — To pass a packthread l-hrongh poultri', game, &c., to keep together iheir members. Caramel (bui-nt sugar).—This is made with a piece of sugar, of the size of a nut, browned in the bottom of a sauce- pan ; upon which a cuplul of stock is gra- dually poured, stirring all the time, and adding the broth little by little. It may be used with the leather of a quill, to colour moats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux; and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made with water in- stead of stock may be used to colour compC'es and other entremets. Casseiiole.—A crust of rice, which, after having been moulded into the form of a pie, is baked, and then tilled with a fricassee of white meat or a pur^e of game. CoAiPOTE.—A stew, as of fruit or pi- geons. consomme.- Croquette. potatoes. Croutons.—Sippets of bread. Daubikue.—An oval stuwpan, in which datihes ai'o cooked ; dauhes being meat or fowl stewed in sauce. Dksosser.—To l one, or take out the Dones from poultry, game, or fish. This is an operation requiring considerable experience. Entrees.—Small sido or comer dishea served with the first course. Entremets. — Small sido or corner dishes served with the second course. Escalopes.— Collops; small, round, thin pieces of tender meat, or of fish, beaten with the handlo of a strong knife to make them tender. Feuilletage.—Puff-paste^ Flambeu.—To singe fowl or game, after they have been picked. Fonceb.—To put in the bottom of a saucepan slices of ham, veal, or thin broad hHccs of bacon. Galette.—A broad thin cake. Gateau.—A cake, correctly speaking; but u.scd sometimes to denote a pudding and a kind ol tai t. GiJk.Ci;«.—To glaze, or spread upon -Rich stock, or gravy. — Ball of fried rice or French Terms hot meats, or larded fowl, a thick ar rich sauce or gravy, called fflaze. Th is laid on with a feather or brush, an in confectionary the term means to ic fruits and pastry with sugar, which gli tens on hanlening. IIors-d'<euvi,es.— Small dishes, c assietles volantes of sardines, ancliovic and other relishes of this kind, served 1 the guests during the first course. (.S ASSIETTES volantes.} Lit.—A bed or layer; articles in thi slices are placed in layers, otlier arti'de or seasoning, being laid between them. Maigre.—Broth, soup, or gravy, mac without meat. Matelote.—A rich fish-stew, whic is generally composed of carp, eel. trout, or barbel. It is made with wine Mayonnaise.—Cold sauce, or sala dressing. Menu.—The bill of fare. Meringue.—A kind of icing, made « whites of eggs and sn-^ar, well beaten. Mi ROTO N.—Larger slices of meut tba collops ; such as slices of beef for a vina grotte, or ragntlt or stew of onions. Mouiller.—To add water, broth, c other liquid, during the cooking. PaNER. — To cover with very fit crumbs of bread, meats, or any otlic articles to be cookeil on the gridiron, i the oven, or fryin_:-p;ui. PiQUER.—To lard with strips of fr bacon, poultry, game, meat, &c. Tlr should always be done according to tb vein of the moat, so that in carvin>.' yo slice the bacon across as well as the me; ' PoKLiiE.—Stock used instead of w.H ^ for boiling turkeys, sweet! >rea Is, fowfe and vegetables, to render them less ir sipid. —This is rather an expensiv preparation. PUKEE.—Vegetables or meat reduce to a very smooth pulp, which is nft ^ wards mixed with enough liquid to ni • ■ it of the consistency of very thick souj. Eagout.—Stew or hash. Remoulade.—Salad dressing. Rissoles.— Pastry, made of light pufl paste, and cut into various forms, an' fried. They may bo filled with meat, or sweets. Roux.—Brown and white; Froa thickening. . . Salmi.-Ragofit of game previoi; roasted. Sauce Piquante.—A sharp sauco, which somewhat pf a viucirar fla' predominates. fishTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 135 Prittors, Indian Sahteb.—To dress with sriuce in a iccpan, repeatedly moving it about. 'amis.—Tammy, a sort of open cloth sieve through which to strain broth I sauces, so a? to rid them of small ICS, froth, &:c. "OUHTE.—Tart. Fruit pie. 'rousser.—To truss a bird; to put ether the body and tie the wings and Ehs, in order to round it for roasting or ling, each being tied then with [lack- fcad, to keep it in the required form. [OL-AU-VENT.—A rich crust of very I puff-paste, which may be filled with lous delicate ragofits or fricussees, of I flesh, or fowl. Fruit may also be Lsed in a vol-au-vent, llTTERS, Indian. Wjredi'enis.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour, ■ng water, the yolks of 4 eggs, the ftcs of 2, hot lard or clarified dripping, I Mode. — Put the flour into a basin, I pour over it sufficient boiling water make it into a stiff" paste, taking care ■tir and beat it well, to prevent it ■ng lumpy. Leave it a little time to I and then break into it (wilkout mirj them at first) the yollfs of 4 eggs mhe whites of 2, and stir and beat all ■together. Have ready some boiling iBor butter; drop a dessertspoonI'ul of ,ftr in at a time, unci fry the fritters ■ light brown. Thny should rise so n as to be almost like balls. Serve ■dish, with a spoonful of preserve or Aalade dropped in between each ■r. This is an excellent dish for a ■» addition to dinner, if a guest un- ■itcdly arrives, it being so easily and ■•■ly made, and it is always a great ■rite. Time. — From 5 to 8 minutes w the fritters. A verai/e cost, e.\clu- •f the jam, 5d. Sufjicieid for 4 or 5 ■ns. ticasonablb at any time. SETTERS, Plain. mredientt.—S oz. of flour, 3 eggs, J ,Mf milk. Mode.—Mix the flour to a ■;Bh batter with a small quantity of f Bilk ; stir in the ct/gs, which should "■11 whisked, and then the remainder ,B milk; beat the whole to a per- ''B smooth batter, and should it be ^Bnot quite thin enough, add two or tal'lcspoonfuls more milk. Have ■ a frying-pan, with plenty of boil- J^Brd in it; drop in rather more thaiJ PKspoouful at a time of the battel. Fruit, to Bottle Fresh and fry the fritters a nice brown, turning them when sufhcieiitly cooked on oua side. Di ain tliein well from the greasy moisture by placing them upon a piecu of blotting-paper before the fiie; dish them on a white d'oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and send to table with them a cut lemon and plenty of pounded sugar. Time.—From 6 to 8 nii- nutes, A verage cost, id. SiiJHcient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. FRITIT, to Bottle Fresli. (Very useful in Winter.) Ingredients. — Fresh fruita, such as currants, raspberries, cherries, goose- berries, plums of ail kinds, damsons, &c. ; wide-mouthed gliss bottles, now corks to fit them tightly. Mode.—Let the fruit he full grown, but not too ripe, and gathered in dry weather. Pick it off the stalks without bruising or breaking the skin, and reject any that is at all blemished: if gathered in the damp, or if the skins are cut at all, the fruit will mould. Have ready some perfectly dvji glass bottles, and some nice neiv soft corks or bungs; burn a match in eacli bottle, to exhaust the air, and quickly place the fruit iu to be preserved ; gently cork the bottles, and put them in a very cool oven, where let them remain until the fruit has shrunk away a fourth part. Then take the bottles out; do not open them, but immediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and cover them with melted resin. If kept in a dry place, tho fruit will remain good for mouths; and on this principally depends the success of the preparation ; for if stored away in a place that is in the least damp, tlio fruit will soon spoil. Time.—From 5 to 6 hom's in a very slow oven. FRUIT, to Bottle Fresh. Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fniit, such as currants, cherries, gooseberries, all kinds of plums, &c. ; wide-mouthed glass bottles, new corks to fit them tightly. Mode.—The fruit must bo fuU- gro^vn, not too ripe, and gathered on a tine day. Let it be carefully picked an I put into tho bottles, which must be clcai\ and perfectly dry. Tie over tho tops ot tho bottles pieces of bladder ; stand tho bottles in a largo pot, copper, or boiler, , mth cold water to reach to their necks ; kindle a fire under, let tho water boil, I and aa the bladders begin to riso an4THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 139 Fruit, to Bottlo Fresh puff, prick tbem. As soon as Lho water boils, oxtinj^uisl) tho firo, and let the bottles remain whero they are, to become cold. 'J'ho next day remove tho blatl- dcrs, and strew over tho fruit a thick layer of ponnded sugar; (it tho bottles with cork, and let each cork lie close at hand to its own bottlo. Hold for a few moments, in tho neck of tho bottle, two or three lighted matches, and when they have filled the bottlo neck with gas, and before they go out, remove them very quickly ; instantly cork tho bottle closely, and dip it in bottle-cement. Tiine.—^Al- together about 8 hours. FRUIT, to Bottle Fresh, with Sugar. (Very useful in Winter.) Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fruit; to each quart bottle allow ^ lb. of pound- ed sugar. 3Iode.—Let the fniit be ga- thered in dry weather. Pick it carefully, and drop it into clean and very dry quart glass bottles, sprinkling over it the above proportion of pounded sugar to each quart. Put the corks in the bottles, and place them in a copper of cold water up to their necks, with small hay-wisps round them, to prevent tho bottles from knocking together. Light the fire under, bring the water gradually to boil, and let it simmer gently until the fruit in the bottles is reduced nearly one third. Ex- tinguish tho fire, and let the bottles remain in the water until it is perfectly cold; then take them out, make the corks secui-e, and cover them with melted resin or wax. Time.—About A hour from the time the water commences to boil. FBUIT TURNOVERS Csuitablo for Pic-Nics). Ingredients.—PufT-pasto, any kind of fruit, 6ugi\r to taste. Mode.—Make some puff-paste by recipe ; roll it out to the thickness of about ^ inch, and cut it out in pieces of a circular form ; pile the fruit on half of the paste, sprinkle over some sugar, wet tho edges and turn the paste over. Press tho edges together, ornament them, and brush tho turnovers over with the white of an egg; sprinkle over sifted sugar, and bake on tins, in a brisk oven, for about 20 minutes. In- Etead of putting tho fruit in raw, it may be boiled down with a little sugar first, and then inclosed in thocnist; or jam, of any kind, may be substituted for fresh fruit. Time.—W minutes, Si^fjioient.— GherkinB, Pickled h lb. of puff-paste v/ill make a dozen tu: overs. iSeasonable at any time. t GAME, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookkky.] Ingridiei —The remains of cold game, 1 oui stuck with 3 cloves, a few whole p pers, a strip of lemon-peel, salt to tas-- thickening of butter and flour, 1 glasst port wine, 1 tablespoonful of letn< juice, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 \< of water or weak stock. Mode. —Cut i remains of cold game into joints, resej the best pieces, and the inferior o: and trimmings put into a stewpan w the onion, pepper, lemon-i)eel, salt, f water or weak stock; stew these about an hour, and strain the grav^ thicken it with butter and flour; add 1 wine, lemon-juice, and ketchup; layv the pieces of game, and let them grau do: ally warm through by the side of fire ; do not allow it to boil, or the gat 31 will bo hard. When on the poind simmering, serve, and garnish tho dii with sippets of toasted bread. Time Altogether 1^ hour. SecLSonahle fzi Atigust to March. Note.—Any kind of game may hashed by the above recipe, and the vour may bo varied by adding flavou vinegars, curry powder, &c. ; but cannot recommend these latter iiif dients, as a dish of game should tci have a gamy taste; and if too m: sauces, essences, &c., are added to gravy, they quite overpower and dest | the flavour the dish should possess GERMAN PUFFS. , Ingredients. —2 oz. of flour, 2 eggti pint of new milk, 2 oz. of melted but little salt and nutmeg. Mode.—hot 2 eggs bo well beaten, then mix all the : gredients well together, and heat tl up just before they are put into li cups half full for baking. Bake f- ' hour in a hot oven till tho puffs are ■ nice brown ; turn out on a flat dish, a little butter over each puff, and ( on it powdered sugar. Time.—i ht Average cost, 6d. Seasonable at time. QnERKINS, Pickled. Ingredients.—Salt and water, 1] bruised ginger .A oz. of whole pepper, J oz, of whole nllspico, 4THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 1S7 Giblet Pie blades of maco, a little horseradish, ais proportion of popper, s[)ices, &c., : 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.—Let tlie icrkins remain in salt and water for 3 4 days, when tako thoin out, wipe rfectly dry, and put them into a stone •. Boil sufDcieut vinegar to cover 2va, with spices and pepper, &c., in 3 above proportion, for 10 minutes; lu- it, quite boiling, over the gher- 13, cover the jar with vine-leaves, and t over them a plate, setting them near ) fire, where they must remain all :ht. Next day drain off the vinegar, 1 it up again, and pour it hot over sm. Cover up with fresh leaves, and the whole remain till quite cold. Now down closely with bladder to exclude air, and in a month or two they 1 bo tit for use. Time.—4 days. Sea- able from the middle of July to tho . of Auyust. BLET PIE. ngretlients.—A set of duck or goose ets, 1 lb. of rump-steak, 1 onion, ^ Ionful of whole black pepper, a of savoury herbs, plain crust. —Clean, and put the giblets into pan with an onion, whole pepper, buncli ofsavoury herbs; add rather han a pint of water, and simmer for about lA hour. Take them it them cool, and cut them into ; line tho bottoui of a pie-dish I few pieces of rump-steak ; add a )Fgil>!ets and a few more pieces of ; season with pei:ipcr and salt, and in the gravy (which should be jd), that the giblets were stewed ver with a plain crust, and bake ;her more than \ h hour in a brisk Cover a picco of | apcr over tho ,0 prevent tho cmst taking too coloin-. Time.—lA hour to stew iblets, about 1 hour to bake tho Averacje cost, exclusive of the gib- Li. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or C persons. [jEt soup. redienU.—3 sets of goose or duck 3, 2 lbs. of shin of bcof, a few , 1 ox-tail, 2 mutton-shanks, 2 large 3, 2 carrots, 1 largo faggot of herbs, ad popper to taste, \ pint of cream, of butter mixed with a desscrt- ful of flour, 3 quarts of water. ,—Scald tho giblets, cut tho giz- in 8 pieces, and put them in a stew- Ginger-Beer pan with tho beef, bones, ox-tail, mut- ton-shanks, onions, herbs, pepper, and salt; add tho 3 quarts of water, and simmer till the giblets are tender, taking care to skim well. When tho giblets are done, tako them out, put them in your tureen, strain tho soup through a sieve, add tho cream and butter, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour, boil it up for a few minutes, and pour it over the gib- lets. It can bo flavoured with port wine and a little mushroom ketchup, instead of cream. Add salt to taste. Time.— 3 hours. Average cost, M. per qtiart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 persons. GINGER, Apple. (A Dessert Dish.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of any kind of hard apiiles, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1^ pint of water, 1 oz. of tincture of ginger. Mode. —Boil tho sugar and water until they foi'm a rich syrup, adding the ginger when it boils up. Pare, core, and cut the apples into pieces; dip them in cold water to preserve the colour, and boil them in the syrup until transparent; but be careful not to let them break. Put the pieces of apple into jars, pour over the syrup, and carefully exclude the air, by well covering them. It will remain pood some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes to boil the syrup; about ^ hour to simmer tho apples. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient ^or 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Alako this in September, October, or November. GINGEH-BEER. Ingredients.—2^ lbs. of loaf sugar, 1^ oz. of bruised ginger, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, 3 gallons of boiling water, two large table- spoonfuls of thick and fresh brewer's yeast. Mode.—Peel the lemons, squeeze the juice, strain it, and put tho peel and juice into a large earthen pan, with the bruised ginger, cream of tartar, and loaf sugar. Put over these ingredients 3 gallons of boiling water; let it stand until just warm, when add the yeast, which shiiuld bo thick and perfectly fresh. Stir tho contents of the pan well, and let them remain near tho lire all night, covering tho pan over with a cloth. The next day skim off tho yeast, and pour tho liquor carefully into another vessel, leaving tho sediment; then bot- tle immediately, and tie tho corks down.THE DICTIONARY OP COOtERY. 188 Ginger Creum and in 3 da^s the gingcr-beer will bo fit for uso. I'or somo tastes, the above proportion of sugar may be found rather too largo, when it may bo diininiKhed ; but the liccr will not keep so long f^ood. Averai'B ccsl for this quantity, 2s. ; or i,d. per bottle. Sufficient to fill 4 dozen ginger-beer bottles. Seasonalle.—Tlna should bo made during the summer months. GUSTGER CBEAM. Ingredients.—The yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of preserved ginger, 2 dessertspoonfuls of syrup, sifted sugar to taste, 1 oz. of isinglass. Mode.— Slice the ginger finely; put it into a basin with tho syrup, the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and the cream ; mix these ingredients well together, and stir them over the tire for about 10 minutes, or until the mixture thickens ; then take it off the fire, whisk till nearly cold, sweeten to taste, add the isinglass, which should be melted and strained, and serve the cream in a glass dish. It may be garnished .vith slices of pre- served giuger or candied citron. Time. —About 10 minutes to stir the cream over the fire. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2>s. (id. Sitfficieni for a good-sized dish. Seasonable at any time. GIISTGEB, Preserved, Comes from tho West Indies. It is made by scalding the roots when they are green and full of sap, then peeling them in cold water and putting them into jars, with a rich syrup ; in which state wo receive them. It should bo chosen of a deep yellow colour, with a little transparency. What is dark-co- loured, fibrous, and stringy, is not good. Ginger roots, fit for preserving and in size jqual to West Indian, have been pro- duced in the Royal Agricultural Garden in Edinburgh. GINGER PUDDING. Ingredients.—.J lb. of (lour, \ lb. of suet, 4 'b. of moist sugar, 2 largo tea-, spoonfuls of grated ginger. Mode.— Shred tho suet very fine, mix it with tho llour, sugar, and ginger; stir all well together; butter a basin, and put tho mixture in dry; tie a cloth over, and boil for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Ave- rage cost, 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 per- sons. Statonalle at uuy timo. Gingerbread, White £ GINGER WINE. Ingredients.—To 9 gallons of wate allow 27 lbs. of loaf sugar, 9 lemons, 1. oz. of bruised ginger, 3 tablespoonfuIs c yeast, 2 lbs. of raisins stoned and chop pod, 1 pint of brandy. Mode.—Bo'. together for 1 hour in a cojipcr (let i previously bo well scoured and be.-uit fully clean) the water, sugar, lemon-rind. and bruised ginger; remove every pajg / tide of scum as it rises, and when thi liquor is sufliciently boiled, put it into large tub or pan, as it must not remaiu in the copper. When nearly cold, adii tho yeast, which must be thick and vew fresh, and, the next day, put all in dry cask with the strained lemon-juic and chopped raisins. Stir the wine ever day for a fortnight; then add th brandy, stop the cask down by degree and in a few weeks it will be fit to bottli Average cost, 2s. per gallon. Sufficit to make 9 gallons of wine. SeasonuUe.- The best time for making this wine either in March or September. Note. — Wine made early in March wi be fit to bottle in June. GINGERBREAD, Thick. Ingredients.—1 lb. of treacle, | lb. butter, ^ lb. of coarse brown sugar, '. lb. of flour, 1 oz. of ginger, h oz. ground allspice, 1 teaspoon I ul of carWi at nato of soda, ^ pint of warm milk, oeg^ ifii Mode.—Put tho tlour into a basiu, wui ' the sugar, ginger, and alls|iice; mt these togeiher ; warm the butter, add it, with the treacle, to the otlii ingredients. Stir well; make the mi just warm, dissolve the carbonate of so in it, and mix tho whole into a ni smooth dough with the eggs, whi should bo previously well whisked ; po tho niixiuro into a buttered tin, a' bake it from ^ to 1 hour, or longt should the gingerbread bo very thic Just before it is done, brush tho t over with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk, and put it back int oven to finish baking. Time.—^ to J hour. A verage cost, \s, per squaie. S , sonahle at any time. , Up GINGERBREAD, White. Ingredients.—l"lb. of (lour, }. Ih^ butter, i 111. of loaf sugar, the i lemon, 1 oz. of ground ginger, 1 grated, j tc.aspoonful of carbi soda, 1 gill of milk. Mode.—!•139 THE DICTIONABY OF COOKERY. Gingerbread-Uuta itter into the flour; add the sugar, liich should be finely pounded and sift- I, and the minced lemon-rind, ginger, »d nutmeg. Mix these well together; ike tho milk just warm, stir in the ila, and work the whole into a nice looth paste; roll it out, cut it into kes, and bako in a moderate oven bin 15 to 20 minutes. Time—15 to 20 inutes. Average cost, Is. 3d. Season' lis at any time. ItNGEBBREAD - NUTS, Eicli I Sweetmeats. Ungredients.—1 lb. of treacle, \ lb. of Irified butter, 1 lb. of coarse brown bar, 2 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of tidied orange-peel, 1 oz. of candied an- lica. i oz. of candied lemou-peel, ^ oz. I coriander seeds, ^ oz. of caraway Ids, 1 egg; Hour. Mode.—Put the lacle into a basin, and pour over it tho Iter, melted so as not to oil, the sugar, U ginger. Stir these ingredients well Icther, and whilst mixing, add the Bdied peel, which should be cut into my small pieces, but not bruised, and ■ caraway ami coriander seeds, which ftuld be pounded. Having mixed all Iroughly together, break in an egg, m work tho whole up with as much m flour as may be necessary to form a Bte. Make this into nuts of any size, ■ put them on a tin plate, and bake II slow oven from \ to hour. Time. I to ^ hour. Avertir/e cost, from Is. to l4c{. per lb. Seasouuljle at any time. IeTGERBREAD-NUTS, Sunder- lland. (An Excellent Beclpe.) migredients.—1^ lb. of treacle, 1 lb. of Hst sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 2^ lbs. lour, oz. of ground ginger, 1.^ oz. ■allspice, Ih oz. of coriander-seeds. He.—liCt the allspice, coriander-seeds, ■ ginger be freshly ground ; put them ■ a basin, with the flour and sugar, H mix these ingredients well together; Hn the treacle and butter together; ■i with a spoon work it into the flour, T until the whole forms a nice smooth I 0. Drop tho mixture from the spoon JI niece of buttered paper, and bake lather a slow oven from 20 minutes t hour. A little candied lemon-peel n ;d with tho above is an improvement, • a great authority in culinary matters frosts tho addition of a little cayenne 9 )er in gingerbread. Whether it bo Glaze-Kettle advisable to use the latter ingredient or not, we leave our readers to decide. Time.—20 minutes to h hour. Average cost, Is. to Is. id. per lb. iSeasonable at any time. GLAZE for covering Cold Hams, Tongues, &c. Ingredients-—Stock, doubling the quan- tity of meat in the recipes. Mode.—Wo may remark at the outset, that unless glaze is wanted in very large quantities, it is seldom made expressly. Either of the stocks, boiled down and reduced very considerably, will be found to pro- duce a very good gliize. Put the stock into a stewpan, over a nice clear fire; let it boil till it becomes somewhat stiff, when keep stirring, to prevent its burn- ing. The moment it is sufficiently re- duced, and come to a glaze, turn it into the glaze pot belbre it gets cold. As, how- ever, this is not to be found in every establishment, a white earthenware jar would answer the purpose ; and this may be placed in a vessel of boiling water, to melt the glaze when required. It should never be warmed in a saucsepan, except on the principle of the bain marie, lest it should rciluce too much, and become black and bitter. If the glaze is wanted of a pale colour, more veal than beef should be used in making the stock; and it is as well to omit turuips and celery, as these impart a disagreeable bitter flavour. GLAZE-KETTLE. This is a kettle used for keeping the strong stock boiled down to a jelly, which is known by tho name of glaze. It is composed of two tin vessels, as CLAZS-EEIILTI. shown in tho cut, one of which, the upper,—containing tho glaze, is inserted into one of larger diameter, and coB' taining boiling water. Il140 THE DICTIONABY OF COOKERY. Glnzo, to. Cold Joints, &c. GLAZE, to. Cold Joints, &c. Melt Ihn glazo by placing tho vessel which contains it, into tho bain marie or saucepan of boiHug water ; brush it over tho meat with a paste-brush, and if in places it is not quite covered, repeat tho operation. Tho glazo should not bo too dark a colour, GOLDEN PUDDING. Ingredients.— ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, \ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of marmalade, ;j lb. of sugar, 4 eggs. J/oc/e.—Put the bread- crumbs into a basin ; mix with them tho suet, which should be finely minced, tho marmalade, and the sugar ; stir all these ingredients well together, beat the eggs to a froth, moisten the pudding with these, and when well mixed put it into a mould or buttered basin ; tie down with a floured cloth, and boil for 2 hours. When turned out, strew a little iine- tiifted sugar over tho top, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, \\d. Suf- ficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The mould may be ornamented with stoned raisins, arranged in any fan- ciful pattern, before the mixture is poured in, which would add very much to the appearance of the pudding. For a plainer pudding, double the quantities of the bread-crumbs; and if the eggs do not moisten it sufficiently, use a little milk, GOOSE, Green. Ingredients.—Goose, 3 oz. of butter, popper and salt to tasto. Mode.—Geese are called green till they are about four months old, and should not bo stuffed. After it has been singed and trussed, put into tho body a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the butter to moisten it inside. Koast before a clear fire for about ^ hour, froth and brown it nicely, and serve with a brown gravy, and, when liked, goose- berry-sauce. This dish should be gar- nished with water-cresses. Time.—About 3 hour. A verage cost, is. 6d. each. Suf' ficient for 5 or (i persons. Scasonalle in June, July, and August. GOOSE, Hashed. rCoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —Tho remains of cold roast gooso, 2 onions, 2 oz. of butter, 1 pint of boiling water, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, pep- per and salt to tasto, 1 tablespoonful of port wino, 2 tablespoonfuls of rausbroom Goose, Hoast ketchup. Mode.—Cnt up the goose int • pieces of tho size required ; the inftri( joints, trimmings, &c., put intoaKtov pan to niake tho gravy ; slice and fry il onions in the butter of a very pale browr add those to the trimmings, and poi over about a pint of boiling water; ste these gently for ^ hour, tlien skim an strain the liquor. Thicken it with fl'm and flavour with port wine and ketchu ^ in tho above proportion ; add a seasonirt Z, of pepper and salt, and put in the pieco tJ of gooso; let these get thoroughly hiu y through, but do not allow them to boi * and serve with sippets of toasted bre;i( Time.—Altogether, rather more than hour. Average cost, exc]usi\'ootthe coil ^] goose, id. Seasonable from Scptcmbo i_ to March. ^ GOOSE, Roast. t Ingredients. — Goose, 4 large oniona w 10 sage-leaves, ^ lb. of bread-crumb*f \h oz. of butter, salt and popper to ta<!ti 1 egg, Choosijig and Trussing.—Solci a goose with a clean white skin, plum breast, and yellow feet: if these lattc are red, the bird is old. Should the wc; ther pcraiit, let it hang for a few day= by so doing the flavour will be very mi; , improved. Pluck, singe, draw, and can fully wash and wipe the goose ; cut o i tho neck close to tho back, leaving' tl ■ skin long enough to turn over; cut : tho feet at the first joint, and sei>arat the pinions at the first joint. Beat itti |^ breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, put: skewer through the under part of eac wing, and having drawn up the 1 closely, put a skewer into the middle 1'*' to find 4 BOAST GOOSB. each, and pass the samo quite throng the body. Insert another skewer int the small of tho log, bring it close dow to tho side-bone, run it through, the saino to tho other side. Now the end of tho vent, and make n the skin sufficiently large for the ■ of tho rump, in order to keep in ' soning. jl/of^e.—Make a snge-ai stuffing of tho above ingredien! into the body of tho goose, and si ■'ItTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 141 ;o Goose, Boast, to Carve irirly at both ends by passing the rump ^hrough the hole made in the skin, and ;ho other end by tying the skin of the leck to the back: by this means the seasoning will not escape. Put it down .0 a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and ■oast from H to 2 hours, according ,0 the size. Remove the .skewers, and icrvo with a tureen of good gra\'y, and )ne of well-made apple sauce. Should a rery bighly-flavoiued seasoning be pre- "erred, tiie onions should not bo parboiled, Dut minced raw : of the two methods the nild seasoning is far superior. A ragoCit, )r pie, should be made of the giblets, or ;he3' may be stewed down to make gravy. 3e cai-eful to serve the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be .polled by coming ttattunod to tablo. is this is rather a troublesome joint to ;arve, a lavffe quantity of gravy should ot be poured mimd the goose, but sent a tureen. Time.—A large goose, 1^ a moderate-sized one, l,j to 1^ Seasonable fi-om September to Jarch ; but in perfection from Michael- oas to Christmas. Average cost, 5s. 6d. lach. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Note.—A teaspoonful of made mustard, saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of ayenne, mixed with a glass of port wine, re sometimes poured into the goose by slit made in the apron. This sauce is y many considered an improvement. OOSE, Hoast, to Carve. It would not be fair to say that this ish bodes a great deal of happiness to n inexperienced carver, especially if lere is a large party to servo, and the ices off the breast should not suffice to atisfy the desires and cravings of many holcsomo ai)petites, produced, may bo, y the various sports in vogue at Michael- las and Christmas. The beginning of le task, however, is not in any way dif- csult. Evenly-cut slice?, not too thick rtoo thin, should be carved from the reast m the direction of the lino from to 6 ; after the first slice has been cut, n lour lour Goose Stuflang BOAST OOOSE. hole should bo mado with the knife in 10 part called tho apron, passing it round the line as indicated by the figures 1, 1, 1 ; hero the stuffing is located, and. some of this should be served on each plate, unless it is discovered that it is not agrceablo to the taste of some one guest. If tho carver manages cleverly, he will bo able to cut a very large num- ber of fine slices off the breast, and the more so if he commences close down by the wing, and carves upwards towards the ridge of the breastbone. As many slices as can be taken from the breast being carved, the wings should bo cut off, and the same process as de- scribed in carving boiled fowl is made use of in this in- stance, only more dexterity and greater force will most probably be required. The shape of the leg, when disengaged from the body of the goose, should be like that shown in the accompany- ing engraving. It will be necessary, perhaps, iu taking off the leg, to turn tho goose on its side, and thei., pressing down the small end of tho leg, the knife should be passed under it from the top quite down to the joint; tho leg heino- now turned back by tho fork, the knite must cut through tho joint, loosening the thighbone from its socket. The merry- thought, which in a goose is not so large as might be expected, is disengaged m the same way as that of a fowl—by pass- ing tho knife under it, and pressing it backwards towards the neck. The neck- bones, of which wo give a cut, are freed by the same process as are those of a fowl; and tho same may be said of all the other parts of this bird. The bre ist of a goose is tho part most esteemed ; all parts, however, are good, and full of juicy flavour. GOOSE STUFFING, Soyer's Ee- cipe for. Tako 4 apples peeled and cored, 4 onions, 4 leaves of sago, and 4 leaves of lemon thymo not broken, and boil them in a stcwpan with sufficient water to cover them; when done, pulp thorn tluoucU a 1.1:0, WING. AND NECK- BONE OP GOOSE.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 142 Gooseberries, CompOto of eievo, romovinpr tho sago and thymo; then add sufficient pulp of mc;ily pota- toes to causo it to bo sufficienily dry without sticking to tho hand ; add pep- per and salt, and stuff the bird, GOOSEBEEHIES, Compote of. Ingredients.—Syrup; to 1 pint of symp allow nearly a quart of gooseberries. Mode.—Top and tail the goosolierries, ■which should not be very ripe, and i)our over them SDme boiling water; then take them out and plunge them into cold water with which has been mixed atable- Bpoonful of vincgai-, which will assist to keep the finit a good colour. Jlako a pint of syrup, and when it boils drain the gooseberries and put them in ; sim- mer them gently until the fruit is nicely pulped and tender without being broken ; then dish tho gooseberries on a glass dish, boil tho syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, pour over tho gooseberries, and serve cold. Time.—About 5 minutes to boil the gooseberries in the syrup, 3 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient.—A quart of gooseberries for 5 or 6 pci'sons. Seasonable in Juno. GOOSEBEBHY CHIPS. (Useful for Dessert.) Ingredients.—Gooseberries unripe and green, but quite full-grown ; silted loaf sugar. Mode. — Put tho gooseberries, ■when cleaned of tops and tails, into jars, and boil them in a copper till quite soft. To every lb. of pulp put ^ lb. of loaf sugar sifted : the sugar must be stirred in very gently. Then pour out the sweetened pulp on flat dishes, about ^ inch thick, which must be set in the sun to dr^'. When sufficiently dried in the sun, the pulp may be cut into strips, and twisted into any fanciful shapes, bows, &c. Tme for drying, according to the amount of 6un. Sctisonalile at all times. Note.—These chips may be kept for years in tin boxes, if packed quite dry, with layers of paper between the rows. GOOSEBEHRY FOOL. Ir.gredients.—Green gooseberries; to every pint of pulp add 1 pint of milk, or A pint of cream ami pint of milk ; sugar to tasto. il/o(^e.—Cut tho tops and tails off the gooseberries, put them into a jar with 2 tablospoonfuls of water and a little good moist suL^ar ; sot this jar in a sa\ice- pan of boj^ing w'ltor, and let it 'jcU until Gooseberry Jam tho fruit is soft enough to mash. When- done cno-igh, beat it to a pulp, work this pulp through a colander, and stir to every pint the above uroportion of milk, oi equal quantities of milk and cream. As- certain if the mixture is swoot enough, and put in plenty of sugar, or it will not be eatable ; and in mixing the milk and . gooseberries add the former very gradu- ally to these : servo in a glass dish, or in small glasses. This, although a very old- fashioned and homely dish, is, when well made, very delicious, and, if properly sweetened, a very suitable prepamtioD;! ..: for children. Time.—I''rom ^ to 1 houTAfaf Average cost, 6d. per pint, with milkxKt Svffinerd.—A pint of milk and a pint otMte gooseberry pulp for 5 or 6 childroDAbi Seasonable iu Slay and June. lie GOOSEBEBRY JA.M. p Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit al-' low f lb. of loaf sugar; cnrrant-jnico. Mode.—Select red hairy gooseberries;, have them gathered in di-y weather/, ^'^ when quite ripe, without being too s,onX, ' Weigh them; with a pair of sci.ssors ciiti ' off the tops and tails, and to every 6 lbs.- < of fruit have ready A pint of reH-curr.int juice, drawn as for jelly. Put the goose- ■: berries and currant-juice into a pre- r serving-pan,, let them boil tolerably- quickly, keeping them well stirred ; when \ they begm to break, add to them the i sugar, and keep simmering until the jam i becomes firm, carefully skimming and ; stirring it, that it does not burn at the > bottom. It should be boiled rather a i long time, or it will not keep. Put it ; into pots (not too large), let it get per- fectly cold, then cover tho pots dowiw [j with oiled and egged papers. T/?;:?.— '■, About 1 hour to boil the gooseberries in the currant-juice, from ^ to if hour with i the sugar. Avernrje cost, per lb. pot, from Qd. to M. iS(r/(«erti.—Allow lA pint ol fruit for a lb, pot, SeasonahU.—MakM :g„ this in June or J uly. ^ GOOSEBERRY JAM. Ivjredieyits.—To every 8 Ihs. of red," rougli, ripe gooseberries allow 1 cju.art of red-currant juice, 5 Ihs. of loal suga^J.. Mode.—Have the fruit gathered in weather, and cut off tho top< and tiiflW f; Prejiare 1 quart of rod-cnrnint juic ^ thfl same as for red-currant jelly ; put it inta a preserving-pan with tho sugar, and k-jcp stininjj; tuitil the latter is uissol'ad..143 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Gooseljorry Jam feop it boiling for about 6 ^Ilinu^es; kim well; then put in tlic goos^eberries, n'J lot them boil from h to ^- hour; then urn the whole into an earthen pan, and 3t it remain for 2 daj's. Boil the jam ip again until it looks clear ; put it into ots, and when cold, cover with oiled ;iper, and over the jars put tissue-paper rushed over on both sides with «ho 'hite of an cgiy, and store away in a dry laco. Care must bo taken, in makina^ Ids, to keep the jam well stirred and ell skimmed, to (irevent it burning at be bottom of the pan, and to have it ery clear. Time.—5 miiuites to boil ho currant-juice and sugar after the tter is dissolved ; from h to f hour to mmer the gooseberries "the first time, hour the seaond titno of boilinar. Ave- arje cost, from Scl. to lOcZ. per lb. pot. 'fficient.—Allow \h pint of fruit for a pot. Seasonable.—Make this in June ■July. ^OOSEBERRY JAM, White or Green. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fruit and igar. Mode.—Stlect the gooseberries ot very ripe, either white or green, and )p and tail them. Boil the sugnr with _ater (allowing h pint to every lb.) for bout \ hour, carefully removing the juni as it rises ; then put in the gooso- erries, ai.d simmer gently till clear and rm : try a little of the jam on a plate; if jellies when cold, it is done, and should icn be poured into pots. When C(d(l, iver with oiled paper, and tissue-paper •usherl over on both sides with the un- eaten white of an e^-g, and stow away I a dry place. Tivie.—\ hour to boil le sugar and water, ^ hour the jam. vet-ar/e cost, from Qd. to M. per lb pot. iifficient.—AUovf IS pint of fruit for a lb. ot. Seaso7iab/e.—Ma.ko this in June. OOSEBERRT JELLY. /^^^^m^/e?^^^.—Gooseberries ; to every Jit of juice allow J lb. of loaf sugar. lode.—Pat the gooseberries, after cut- ng off the tops and tails, into a pre- jTvmg-pan, and stir them over the fire Dill they aro quite soft; then strain ■lem through a sieve, and to every pint ■Juice allow ^ lb. of sugar. Boil tho ^ico nnd sugar together for nearly 3 nir, stitrinjr and skimming all tho time; id ii the jelly ajjpcars firm when a little It is poured OB to a plate, it in doiw>, Gooseberry Sauce and should then bo taken up and put into small pots. Cover tho pots with oiled and egged papoi's, the same as for currant jolly, and store away in a dry place. Time.—§ hour to simmer the gooseberries without the sugar; ij hour to boil tho juico. Average cost, from 8d.. to IQd. per ^,-lb. pot. Seasonable in July. GOOSEBERRY PUDDmG, Baked. Ingredients. — Gooseberries, 3 eggs, \\ oz. of butter, h pint of broad-crumbs, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put tho goo.se- borries into a jar, previously cutting off the tops and tails ; place this jar in boil- ing water, and let it boil until the goose- berries aro soft enough to pulp ; then beat them through a coarse sieve, and to every pint of pulp add 3 well-whi.<ked egii;s, 1.1 oz. of butter, k pint of broad- crumbs, and sugar to laste; beat the mi.Kturo well, put a border of puff-paste round the edge of a pie-dish, put in the puddinff, bake for about 40 minutes, strew sifted su^ar over, and serve. Time. —About 40 minutes. Average cost, \0d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iahl$ from May to July. GOOSEBERRY PUDDmG, Boiled. higredients.—^ lb. of suet crust, 1^ pint of green gooseberries, \ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet crust rolled out to about h inch in thickness, and, with a pair of scissors, cut oir the tops and tails of the uoose- bcM ics ; fill the basin with the fruit, put in tho sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of tho pudding to- gether, tie over it a floni'ed cloth. BOILBD FRUIT PUDDING, put It into boiling water, and boil from to 3 hours ; turn it out of the basin, and servo with a jug of cream. Time.— ^.i to 3 hours. Average cost, IM. Suf- ficient for 6 or 7 persons.' Seasonable from May to July. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE for Boiled Mackerel. Ingredient.'!. -1 pint of gi'oen poosa- berrics, 3 tablespoonfula JifiohomolTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 144 Gooseberry Tart (voal gravy may bo bubsUluled for tliis), 2 oz. of Irosh Imtter ; seasoning to tasto of salt, ijoppcr, and grated nutmeg. JiJode.—Boil the goosolicrriea in water until Ignite tcnticr; strain them, and nib them thi-oii^zh a sieve. Put, into a sauce- pan the L(5chamel or gravy, with the niittcr and seasoning ; add the pulp from the gooseberi ics, mix all well together, and heat gradually through. A little pounded sugar added to this sauce is by many persons considered an improve- ment, as the saccharine matter takes off the extreme acidity of the unripe fruit. Time.—Boil the gooseberries from 20 minutes to A hour. Svfficient. — Tliis quantity, for' a largo disli of mackerel. Seasonable from May to July. GOOSEBERRY TART. Ingredients.—]A pint of gooseberries, ilb. of short crust, ^ lb. of moist sugar. ^ode.—With a pair of scissors cut off the t'ps and tails of the gooselierries ; put them into a d(ep pie-dish, i)ile the fruit high in the cenire, and put in ihe Eu^ar ; line the edge of the dish with shiirt crust, put on the cover, and orna- ment the edges of the tart; bake in a good oven for about ^ hour, and beft^ro being sent to table, strew over it some fine-sified sui;ar. A jug of cream, or a dish of boiled or baked custards, should always accomj-any this dish. Time.— I hour. Averu(/e cost, 9d. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to July. GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. Ingredients.—1 quart of gooseberries, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard, a plate- ful of whipi:)cd cream. Mode.—Put the goQscberries into a jar, with sufficient moist sugar to sweeten them, ami boil them until reduced to a pidp. Put this pulp at the bottom of a tridc-dish ; pour over it a pint of custard made by recipe, and, when cold, cover with whipped cream. The cream should bo whipped the day before it is wanted for table, as it will then be bo much firmer and more solid ; but it should not be added to the fruit until a short time before it is re- quired. The dish may bo garnished as fancy dictates. 2V)iic.—About % hour to boil the gooseberries. Average cost, Is. (jd. Sutjicicnt for 1 trlQo. Seasonable In May, Julio, and July. Gooseberry Wine it- j;( i 'M lb & nii siiit i« 7R GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. (Am Excellent Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 pecks of crystal goose-- berries, G gallons of water, 12 lbs. off foots sugar of the coarsest brown quality. Mode.—Mash the gooseberries (whichi should be quite ripe) in a tub with at mallet; put to them the water uearlyf milk-warm ; let this stand24 hours; theoi strain it through a sieve, and put tbo» sugar to it; mix it well, and tun it,. These jjroportionsare for aO-j^allon cask;; and if it be not quite full, more water mu8tt|^s be addefl. Let the mixture be stirredl from the bottom of the cask two or three* times daily for three or four days, too assist the melting of the sugar; thenxtift paste a piece of linen cloth over thM ai bunghole, and set the cask iu a warmt place, hut not in the sun ; any comer of' a warm kitehcn is the best situation for it. The iollowing spring it should be drawn oiT into stone buttles, and tho vinegar will be tit for use twelve months alter it is made. This will be found a most excellent preparation, greatly su- perior to much that is sold under tho name of the best white wine vinegar. Many years' experience has proved liiat pickle made with this vinegar will keep, when bought vinegar will not i reserve - the ingredients. The cost per gallon is - merely nominal, esijcciady to those who reside in the country and grow their own gooseberries ; the coarse sugar is then tiie ouly ingi edieut to be purchased. Time.—To remain in the cask t) months. Average cost, when the gooseberries hava to be purchased, Is. per gallon; when they are grown at home, iid. per gallon. Seasonable.—This should bo made the* end of June or the beginning of July, . when gooseberries are ripo and plea- tiful. GOOSEBERRY WINE, Efferres- cing. Ingredients.—To every gallon of water i allow 6 lbs. of green gooseberries, 3 lbs. of lump sugar, ^l/orfc. —This wine should be prepared from unripe gooseberries, in order to avoid the flavour which tho fruit would gi%'o to the wine when iu a mature state. Its briskness depends more upon the time of bottling than upon the un- rijio state of tho fruit, for effervescing wine can bo mado from fruit that is rif>e ns well as that which is unriiie. The fruit kilioiUd be selected wli«n it has nearly ■THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 145 Gooseberry Wine tained its full growth, and consequently jfore it shows any teudency to ripen, ay bruised or decayed berries, and those at are very small, should be rejected, ■le blossom and stalk ends should be moved, and the fruit well bruised in a .b or pan, in such quantities as to sure each berry being broken without ushing the seeds. Pour the water rhich should be warm) on the fruit, ,neeze and stir it with the hand until 1 the pulp is removed from the skin and eds, and cover the whole closely for I hours ; after which, strain it through coarse bag, and press it with as much rce as can be conveniently applied, to tract the whole of the juice and liquor le fruit may contain. To every 40 or ) lbs. of fruit one gallon more of hot ater may be passed through the marc, ■ husks, in order to obtain any soluble atter that may remain, and be again essed. The juice should be put into a b or pan of sufficient size to contain all it, and the sugar added to it. Let it I well stirred until the sugar is dissolved, id place the pan in a w.irm situation ; jep it closely covered, and let it ferment r a day or two. It must then bo drawn finto clean casks, placed a little on one de for the scum that arises to be thrown it, and the casks kept filled with the imaining "must," that should be re- rved for that purpose. When the active rmentation has ceased, the casks should 5 plugged upright, again filled, if neces- \ry, the bungs be put in loosely, o.nd, ;ter a few days, when the fermentation a little more languid (which may be lown by the hissing noise ceasing), the lings should be driven in tight, and a lUe-hole made, to give vent if necessary, bout November or December, on a clear e day, the wine should be racked from 3 lees into clean casks, which may be nsed with brandy. After a month, it lould bo examined to see if it is sufB- .ently clear for bottling ; if not, it must > fined with isinglass, which may bo issolved in some of the wine : 1 oz. will a sufficient for 9 gallons. In bottling le wine, it will be necessary to wire the »rk8 down, or to tie them down with ring. Old champagne bottles are the est for this wine. In March or April, or hen the gooseberry bushes bogin to lossom, tho wino must bo bottled, in •dor to insure its being cflervescing. Sea- maOle,—Make this tho end of May or be- iiming of J une, before tho berries ripon. Gravy, a good Beef GBAVIES, General Stock for By the addition of various store sauces, thickening and flavouring, good stock may be converted into good gravies. It should be borne in mind, however, that the goodness and strength of spices, wines, flavourings, &c., evaporate, and that they lose a great deal ol" their fra- grance if added to the gravy a longtime before they are wanted. If this poiut is attended to, a saving of one half tba quantity of these ingredients will be effected, as, with long boiling, the fla- vour almost entirely passes Gway. The shank-bones of mutton, previously well soaked, will be found a great assistance in enriching gravies ; a kidney or melt, beef skirt, trimmings of meat, &c. &o., answer very well when only a small quan- tity is wanted, and a good gravy need not necessarily be so very expensive ; for economically-prepared dishes are often- times found as savoury and wholesome as dearer ones. The cook should also re- member that the fragrance of gravies should not be overpowered by too much spice, or any strong essences, and that they should always be warmed in a iaia marie, after they are flavoured, or else in a jar or jug placed in a saucepan full of boiling water. The remains of roast- meat gravy should always be saved ; as, when no meat is at hand, a very nice gravy in haste may be made from it, and when added to hashes, ragcitits, &c., is a gi'eat improvement. GRAVY, a Good Beef, for Poultry, Game, &c. Ingredients.—h lb. of lean beef, ^ pint of cold water, 1 shalot or small onion, ^ a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce or mush- room ketchup, h a teaspoonful of arrow- root. Mode, —Cut up the beef into small pieces, and put it, with the water, iuto a stewpan. Add the shalot and seasoning, and simmer gently for 3 hours, taking care that it does not boil fast. A short time before it is required, tako the arrow- root, and having mixed it with a little cold water, pour it into the gravy, which keep stirring, adding the Harvey's sauce, and just letting it boil. Strain off the gravy in a tureen, and servo very hot. Time.—3 hours. Avera(je cost, 8d. jier pint.146 •rnE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Gravy, Beef GRAVY, Beef, a Quickly Made. lngredicntx.—\ lb. of shin of beef, ^ omoa, \ carrot, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley nnd savoury herbs, a piece of butter hbout the size of a walnut; cayenne and mace to taste, J pint of water. Mode.— Cut up the meat into very small pieces, slice ihe onion and carrot, and put them into a small saucepan with the butter. Keep stirring over a sharp fire until they have taken a litilo colour, when add the water and the remaining ingredients. Simmer for h hour, skim well, strain, and flavour, when it will bo ready for use. Tcnie.— h hour. Average cost, for this quantity, 5d. GRAVY, Brown. Iiigredknts.—2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, 2 small slices of lean bacon (if at hand), salt and whole pepper to taste, 3 cloves, 2 quarts of water. For thickening, 2 oz. ol'biiiter, 3 oz. of flour. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan ; set this on the fire, throw in ihe onions cut in rings, and fry them a light brown ; then add the beef and bacon, which should be cut into small square pieces ; season, and pour in ateacupful ol water ; let it boil for about ten minutes, or until it is of a nice brown colour, occasionally stirring the contents. Now fill up with water in the above pro- portion ; let it boil up, when draw it to the side of the fire to simmer very gently fori A hour; strain, and when cold, take off all the fat. In thickening this gravy, melt 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 2 oz. of flour, and stir till of a light-brown colour ; when cold, add it to the strained gravy, and boil :t up quickly. This thickening may be made in larger quan- tities, and kept in a stone jar for use when wanted. Time. — Altogether, 2 hours. Average cost, 4d. por pint. GRAVY, Brown, without Meat. Ingredients.—2 large onions, 1 large carrot, 2 oz. of butter, 3 pints of boiling water, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, a wine- glassful of good beer ; salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—SWco, flour, and fry the onions and carrots in the butter until of a nice light-bi'own colour, then add the boiling water and the remaining ingre- dients ; let the whole stew gently for about an hour, then strain, and when cold, skim off all the fat. Thicken it, aud^ if thout^ht uecessoiy^ add a few drops Gravy, Cheap jB- of colouring. Time.—1 hour. Aveixgt' cost, 2d. per pint. Note.—The addition of a small qiian«- tity of mushroom ketchup or Harvey'ai at sauce very much improved" the flavour off this gravy. f,: GRAVY, Cheap, for Minced Veal Ingredients.—Bones and trimmings of cold roast or boiled veal, Ih pint of' water, 1 onion, ;J teaspoonfui "of minced lemon-peel, ^ teaspoonfui of salt. 1 blade of pounded mace, the juice of | lemon; thickening of butter and flour. Mole.-'- Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, . except the thickening and lemon-juice, and let them simmer very gently for rather more than 1 hour, or until the liquor is reduced to a pint, when strain through a hair sieve. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and the lemon-juice; set it on the fire, and let it just boil up, . when it will be ready for use. It may be » flavoured with a Uttle tomato sauce, and,. where a rather dark-coloured gravy is ; J not objected to, ketchup, or Harvey's ■ sauce, may be added at pleasure. Tinit. —Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, 3d. GRAVY, Cheap, for Hashes, &c. higredients. —Bones and trimmings of : the cooked joint intended for hashing, i teaspoonfui of salt, ^ teaspoonfui oi : whole pepper, ^ teaspoonfui of whole » allspice, a small faggot of savoury herbs, . ^ head of celery, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, . thickening, sufficient boiling water to cover the bones. Mode.—Chop the bones • in small pieces, and put them in .a stew- pan, with the trimmings, salt, popper, . spice, herbs, and celery. Cover with i " boiling water, and let the whole simmer " j[ gently for 1^ or 2 hours. Slice and fry the onion in the butter till it is of a palo ; brown, and mix it gradually with the gravy made from the bones; boil ior ^ hour, and strain into a bosin ; now put' ."' it back into the stewpan; flavour with walnut pickle or ketchup, piekled-ouion liquor, or any store sauce that mny ha preferred. Thicken with a little 1 and flour, kneaded together on a i , A" and the gravy will bo ready for use. After the thickening is adiied, the gravy should just boil, toUke off the rawneiA "^Ji of the flour. Time.—2 hours, or rathrfT more. Average cost, id., e:tc\\i^\'9 th» bones and trimuiin^^s.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 147 Gravy for Koast Meat [BAVY for Hoast Meat. Ingredients.—Grtivj,salt. Mode—Vni common dish with a small quantity of lit in it under the meat, about a quar- ;r of an hour before it is remoTed from je fiio. When the dish is full, take it fvay, baste the meat, and pour the gravy ito the dish on which the joint is to be jrved. I-BAVY for Venison. Ingredients.—Trimmings of venison, 3 \ 4 mutton shank-bones, salt to taste, 1 [nt of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut 3tehup. il/ocZe.—Brown the trimmings rer a nice clear fire, and put them in a jwpan with the shank-bones and water ; .nmer gently for 2 hours, strain and [im, and add the walnut ketchup and a laaoning of salt. Let it just boil, when lis ready to serve. Time.—2 hours. tAVY, Jugged (Excellent). Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, ^ of lean ham, 1 onion or a few shalots, Dints of water, salt and whole pepper [taste, 1 blade of mace, a faggot of Voury herbs, A a large carrot, h a head J celery. Mock.—Cut up the beef and Im into small pieces, and slice the vege- ales; take a jar, capable of holding |o pints of water, and arrange therein, flayers, the ham, meat, vegetables, and jning, alternately, filling up with the ove quantity of water ; tie down the \, or put a plate over the top, so that steam may not escape; place it in I oven, and let it remain there I'lom 6 J8 hours; should, however, tha oven [very hot, less time will be required, aen sufficiently cooked, strain the [iTy, and when cold, remove the fat. lay be flavoured with ketchup, wines, lany other store sauce that may be pre- red. It is a good plan to put the jar ! a cool oven over-night, to draw the \y.vy; and then it will not require so ' baking the following day. Time.— ; a 6 to 8 hours, according to the oven. .rage cost, Id. per pint. lAVY-KETTLE. i'his is a utensil which will not bo iii'l in every kitchen ; but it is a useful whtro it IS necessary to keep "ravies for thu purpose of pouring over vari- Gravy, Bich ous dishes as they are cooking. It is made of copper, and should, conse- I GEAVT-KETTLB. quently, be heated over the hot-plate, if there be one, or a charcoal stove. GBAVY made witliout Meat for Fowls. Ingredients.—The necks, feet, livers, and gizzards of the fowls, 1 slice of toasted bread, ^ onion, 1 faggot ot sa- voury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, J pint of water, thickening of butter and flour, 1 dessertspoonful of ketchup, il/ocfe—Wash the feet of the fowls tho- roughly clean, and cut them and the neck into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with the bread, onion, herbs, seasoning, livers, and gizzards ; pour the water over them and simmer gently for 1 hour. Now take out the liver, pound it, and strain the liquor to it. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and a flavouring of mushroom ketchup ; boil it up and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, id. per pint. GBAVY, Bicli, for Haslios, Bagouts, &c. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 large onion or a few slialots, a little flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, 4 whole allspice, | teaspoonful of whole pepper, 1 slice ot lean ham or bacon, ^ a head of celery (when at hand), 2 pints of boiling water ; salt <and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, as also tlio onions, dredge them with flour, and fry of a pale brown, but do not allow them to get black ; pour in the boiling water, let it boil up, and skim. Add the remaining ingredients, and simmer the whole very gently for 2 hours, or until all the juices are extracted from the meat; put it by to get cold, when take off all tho fat. This gravy may bo flavoured with kot- chnp, store sauces, wine, or, in fact, any- thing that may give <(.d(Iitional and suit- I able relish to the dish it is intended for.1^ THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Gravy Soup Time. —^^athor more than 'Z hours, Ave- rage cost, 8d. per pint. QBAVY SOUP. Ingredierds.—Q lbs. of shin of beof, a knuckle of veal weighing 5 Ibo., a few Sieces or trimmings, 2 slices of nicely- avoured lean hani; \ lb. of butter, 4 onions, 4 carrots, 1 turnip, nearly ahead of celery, 3 blades of mace, 6 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, seasoning of salt and pepper to taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 6 quarts of boiling soft water. It can be flavoured with ketchup, Leamington Banco, Harvey's sauce, and a little soy. Made. — Slightly brown the meat and ham in the butter, but do not let them burn. When this is done, pour to it the water, and as the scum rises, take it off; when no more appears, add all the other ingredients, and let the soup simmer Blowly by the fire for 6 hours without stirring it any more from the bottom ; take it off, and let it settle ; skim off all the fat you ciin, and pass it through a sieve or cloth. When perfectly cold you can remove all the fat, and leave the sediment untouched, which serves veiy nicely for thick gi-avies, hashes, &c. Time. —7 hours. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sujjicient for 14 persons. GRAVY, Veal, for White Sauces, Fricassees, &c. Ingredients. — 2 slices of nicely-fla- voured lean ham, any poultry trimmings, 3 Ihs. of lean veal, a fiiggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, a few green onions (or 1 large onion may be substi- tuted for these), a few mushrooms, when obtainable; 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 3 pints of water. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, put these in a stewpan, moisten- ing them with a small quantity of water; place them over the fire to draw down. When the bottom of the stewpan becomes covered with a white glaze, fill up with water in the above proportion ; add the remaining ingredients, stew very slowly for 3 or 4 hours, and do not tbrget to ! skim well the moment it boils. Put it by, and when cold take olf all the fat. This may bo used for Bdchamel, s.anco tonrn<5o, and many other white sauces. Time.—3 or 4 hours. Average cost, 9U. per piut. Greengages, to Preserve _4 V' GBEENGAGE JAM. ^. Ingredients. — To every lb. of frultl ' weighed before being stoned, allow lb| ft* of lump sugar. Mode.—Divide the greeni gages, take out tiio stones, and put then' mto a preserving-pan. Bring the fruiti ma to a boil, then add tho sugar, and keoplC stirring it over a gentle fire until it i melted. Remove all the scum as itrises - and, just before the jam is done, boil i rapidly for 5 minutes. To ascertain whei it is sufTicicntly Vjoiled, pour a little on i plate, and if the syrup thickens and ap jiears firm, it is done. Have ready hal the kernels blanched ; put them iuV) the « jam, give them one boil, and pour tho preserve into pots. When col<l, coveji down with oiled papers, and, over theses tii^sue paper brushed over on both side* with the white of an egg. Time.—{■ hour after the sugar is added. A certun cost, fi-om 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Suji^- dent.—Allow about 1.^ pint of fruit fa every lb. pot of jam. Seasonable.—MaktJ this in August or September. GREENGAGES, Compote of. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, 1 quart" of greengages. Mode.—Make a sjrup,; skim it well, and put in the gi-eengng«ji when the syiaip is boiling, having previ' ously removed the stalks and stones frorr the fruit. Boil gently for ^ hour, or unlL the fruit is tender; but take care not tc let it break, as the appearance of dish would be spoiled were the fruit duced to a pulp. Take the greeng^ carefully out, pl.ace them on a glass dish, boil tho syrup for another 5 minutes, let it cool a little, pour over tho fruit, and, when cold, it will bo ready for use. Time. —i hour to simmer the fiuit, 5 minuter the syrup. Average cost, in lull season,J6£ 10c/. sufficient for 4 or 5 pei-sons.'4 . Sea.w7iable in July, August, and Sep- ' tember. to Preserve andd every lb. of sugar GREENGAGES, Dry. Ingredients.—To allow 1 lb. of fruit, j pint of water. Mode.—For this purpose, tiie fi-uit must j bo used before it is quite ripe, and pivrt v of tho stalk must bo left on. Weigh tho fruit, rejecting all that is in tho least de- gree blemished, and ]>ut it into a lineJ saucepan with tho sugar and water. which should have been previously boild iTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 149 Greengages, Preserved in Syrup together to a rich syrup. Boil tho fruit in tiiis for 10 minutes, removo it from tbe fire, and drain tho greengages. Tho Dext day, boil up tho syrup and put in the fruit a;/ain, and let it simmer for 3 minutes, and drain tho syrup away. Continue this process for 5 or 6 days, iind the last time placo the greengages, when drained, on a hair sieve, and put them in an oven or warm spot to dry ; coep them in a box, with paper between Bach layer, in a placo free from damp. Time.—10 minutes the first time of boil- ing. Seasonahle.—Make this in August or September. GBEENGAGES, Preserved in Syrup. Inp'edienta.—To evei-ylb. of fruit allow lib. of loaf sugar, ^ pint of water. Mode. —Boil the sugar and water together for about 10 minutes; divide the green- gages, take out tho stones, put the fruit nto the syrup, and let it simmer gently until nearly tender. Take it off the fire, rat it into a large pan, and, the next day, boil it up again for about 10 minutes jrith the kernels from tho stones, which ihould be blanched. Put the fruit caro- 'ully into jars, pour over it tho syrup, ind, wiien cold, cover down, so that the lir is quite excluded. Lot the s\rup bo well skimmed both the first and second Jay of boiling, otherwise it will not be ilear. Time.—10 minutes to boil the lyrup ; \ hour to simmer the fruit the irst day, 10 minutes tho second day. Avenu/e cost, from 6d. to <ScZ. per lb. ]iot. Sufficient.—Allow about 1 pint of fruit K) fill a 1-lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make ,his in August or September, OBEENS, Boiled Turnip. Ingredients.—To each ^ gallon of water lllow 1 heaped tablespoontul of salt; tur- lip-greens. Mode.— Wash tho greens well in two or three waters, and pick off ill the decayed and dead leaves ; tie .hem in small bunches, and put them nto plenty of boiling water, suited in the ibovo proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid of tho saucepan incovered, and when tender, pour them nto a colander; lot them drain, arrange them in a vegetable-dish, removo the itring that tho greens woro tied with, land servo. Time.—'ib to 20 minutes, wAverage cost, 4d. for a dish for 3 yiersous. wSeatonaO'.e in March, April, and May. Grouse, to Carve GBOUSE PIE. Ingredients.—Grouso ; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste ; 1 lb. of rump-steak, ^ pint of well-seasoned broth, putf-paste. Mode.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with the rutiip-steak cut into neat pieces, and, should the grouse be large, cut theoi into joints; but, if small, thoy may ba laid in the pie whole ; season highly with salt, cayenne, and black peppor; pour in tlie broth, and cover with a puff-paste ; brush the crust over with the yolk of an egg, and bake from ^tol hour. If the grouso is cut into joints, the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by stewing them with an onion, a little sherry, a bunch of herbs, and a blado of maco: this should bo poured in after the pie is baked. Time.—^ to 1 Iiour. A verage cost, exclusive of tho arouse, which aro seldom bought, Is. Qd. Seas'^n- able from tho 12th of August to tho beginning of December. GROUSE, Boast. Ingredients.—Grouso, butter, a thick slice of toasted bread. Mode.—Let the birds hang as long as possible ; pluck and draw them ; wipe, but do not wash them, inside and out, and truss them without the head, the same as for a roast fowl. Many persons still continue to truss them BOAST GBOUSE. with the head under tho wing, but the former is now considered the most ap- pi-oved method. Put them down to a sharp clear fire ; keep thom well basted tho whole of the time they are cooking, and serve them on a buttered toast, soaked in the dripping-pan, with a little melted butter poured over them, or with bread-sauco and gravy. Time. A hour ; if liked vet7 thoroughly done, 35 minutes. Average cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. tho brace; but seldom bought. Suji' cient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from the 12th of August to the beginning of December. GBOUSE, to Carve. Grouso may bo cfu-ved in tha way first150 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Grouse Salad described in carving partridge. The backhoue of the grouse is highly njibm estoemed by many, and this part of many game birds is considered the finest-flavoured. BOAST QBODSB. GEOXTSE SALAD (Soyer's Ke- cipe improved.) Tngrcdients- —8 eggs, butter, fresh salad, 2 or 3 grouse; for the sauce, 1 tahle- spoonful of niiiicod shalot, 2 tahlespoon- fuls of pounded sugar, the j'olks of 2 ogsrs, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, ^ oz. of salt, 12 talilespoonfuls of oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 1 gill of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped tarrs-gon and chervil. Mode.—Boil the eggs liatd, shell them, throw them into cold water, cut a thin slice off the bot- tom to facilitate the proper placing of thein in the dish, cut each one into four engthwise, and make a very thin flat border of butter, abi^ut one inch from the edge of the dish the salad is to bo served on ; fix the pieces of egg upright close to each other, the yolk outside, or the yolk and white alternately ; h-.y in the centre a fresh salad of whatever is in sea- son, and, having previously roasted the grouse rather un<lerdone, cut it into eight or ten pieces, and prepare the sauce as follows:—Put the slialots into a basin, with the sugar, the yolk of an egg, the parsley, and salt, and mix in by degrees the oil and vinegar ; when all the ingre- dients are well mixed, put the s.auce on ice or in a cool place. Wiien ready to serve, whip the cream rather thick, which lightly mix with it; then lay the inferior parts of the grouse on the salad, siiuce o\ er so as to cover each piece, then lay over the salad and the remainder of the grouse, pour the rest of the sauce over, and serve. The eggs may bo ornamented with a little dot of radishes or beetroot on the point. Anchovy and gherkin, cut into small diamonds, may be placed be- tween, or cut gherkins in slices, and a border of them laid round. Tarragon or chervil-leaves are also a pretty adilition. The remains of cold black-game, phea- sant, or partridge may be used in the above manner, and will make a very de- licate dish. Averai/e cost, 2s. dt/. Hea- soiicilk from the Tith of August to the beginning of December. Gurnet GRUEL, to make. In;jredients.~\ tablespoonful of Robin^. son's patent groats, 2 tablespooniuls of f cold water, 1 pint of boiling water. . Mode.—Mix the prepared groatssmoothly v with the cold WHter in a basin ; pour- over thein the boiling water, stirring it all the time. Put it into a very clean. saucepan ; boil the gruel for 10 minutes,, keeping it well stirred ; sweeten to ta.«te, and serve. It may be flavoured with a . small piece of lemon-peel, by boiling it in the gruel, or a little grated nutmeg, may bo put in ; but in these matters the. taste of the patient should be considted.. Pour the gruel in a tumbler, and serve. - When wine is allowed to the invalid, 21 tablespoonfuls of sherry or port make! this preparation very nice. In ca-es of colds, the same quantity of spirits isi sometimes added instead of wine. Time,. —10 minutes. Sufficient to make a pints of gruel GUDGEONS. Iiifjredients. — Egg and bread-cmrahs ^ sufficient for the quantity of (ish ; hot: lard. Mode. — Do not scrape oflt the ;• scales, but, take out the gills and inside, , and cleanse thoroughly ; wipe them dry, . flour and dip them into egg, and spriuklo over with bread-crumbs. Fry of a nice brown. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Aver- age cost.—Seldom bought. Seasomdile t fiom March to July. Sufficient.—3 for each person. GUINEA-FOWL, Eoast, Larded. Ingredients.—A guinea-fowl, lardoons, flour, and salt. J/ot/e. — When this hird is larded, it should be trussed the same as a pheasant; if plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. After larding and truss- ing it, jiut it down to roast at a brisk fire; keep it well basted, and a short time before serving, dredge it with a little flour, and let it froth nicely. Ser\'e with a little gravy in the dish, and a tureen of the same, and one of well-mad* bread-sauce. Time. — Guinea-fowl, lar« ded, 1;J hour ; plainly roasted, about 1 hour. Sufficient for (3 persons. Suisun- alle in winter. A'o^e.—The broa«t, if lar.led, should be covered with a piece of paper, and re- moved about 10 n)inutes before serving. GURNET, or GURNARD. Ingredients.—1 gurnet, C oz. af salt to151 THE DICTIONAUY 01" COOKERY. Haddock, Baked each gallon of water. il/ocZe.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and cut off the fius ; have roady some boiling water, with salt in the above proportion ; put the fish in, and simmer very gently for ^ hour. Parsley and butter, or anchovy sauce, should be served with it. Time.—ii hour. Avei-aqecost.—Seldom bought. Seasonalle from October to March, but in perfection in October. Sufficient—A middling-sized tne for two persons. ^^o^e.—This fish is frequently stuffed *ith forcemeat, and baked. HADDOCK, Baked. ' Ingredients.—A nice forcemeat, butter to tasie, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode. — Scale.and clean the fish, without cutting it open much ; put in a nice dehcate forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Brush it over with etrg, sprinkle over bread- crumbs, and baste frequently with but- ter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and serve with a nice brown gravy, plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. The egg and bread-crumbs can be omitted, and pieces of butter placed over the fish. Tme.—Large haddock, ^ lOur ; moderate size, \ hour. Seasonable from August to February. Average cost, from 9c/. upwards. Note —Haddocks may be filleted, rub- ied over with egg and bread-crumbs, md fried a nice brown ; garnish with erisped parsley. HADDOCE:, Boiled. Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover ;be fish; \ lb. of salt to each gallon of rater. Mode.—Scrape the fish, takeout ;he inside, wash it thoroughly, and lay it n a kettle, with enough water to cover it, ind salt in the above proportion. Simmer fently from 15 to iiO minutes, or rather nore, should the fi.«h be very large. For small haddocks, fasten the tails in their nouths, and put them into boiling water. .0 to 15 minutes will cook them. Serve rith plain melted butter,or anchovy sauce. Time.—Large haddock, i hour; small, \ lOur, or rather less. A verage cost, from '(2. upwards. Seasonable from August to i'ebruary. BhADDOCK, Dried. H Dried haddock should bo gradually Brwmed through, either before or over a H{ce clear fire. Rub a littlo piece of but- Hnr over, just before sending it to table. Ham, Pried HADDOCK, Dried. Ingredients.—1 large thick haddock, J bay-leaves, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley, a little butter and pepper ; boiling water. Alode. —Cut up the haddock into square pieces, make a basin hot by means of hot water, which pour out. Lay in the fish, with the bay-leaves and herbs; cover with boiling water ; put a plate over to keep ; in the steam, and let it remain for 10 minutes. Take out the slices, put them in a hot dish, rub over with butter and pepper, and serve. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable at any time, but best in winter. HAM OMELET (a delicious Break- fast Dish). Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, ^ saltspoonful of pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced ham. Mode.—Mince the ham very finely, without any fat, and fry it for 2 minutes in a little butter; thea make the batter for the omelet, stir in the ham, and proceed as in the case of a plain omelet. Do not add any salt to the batter, as the ham is usually suffi- ciently salt to impart a flavour to the omelet. Good lean bacon, or tongue, answers equally well for this dish ; but they must also be slightly cooked pre- viously to mixing them with the batter. Serve very hot and quickly, without gravy. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. HAM, PRIED, AND EGGS (a Breakfast Dish). Ingredients. — Ham ; eggs. Mode.— Cut the ham into slices, and take car© that they are of the same thickness in every part. Cut off the rind, and if the ham should be particularly hard and salt, it will be found an improvement to soak it for about 10 minutes in hot water, and then dry it in a cloth. Put it into a cold frying-pan, set it over the fire, and turn the slices 3 or 4 times whilst they are cooking. When done, place them on a dish, which should be kept hot in front of the fire during the time the eggs are being poached. Poach the eggs, slip them on to the slices of ham, and serve quickly. Time.—7 or 8 minutes to broil the ham. A vero.ge cost, 8d. to Is. per lb. by the whole luvm. (S#t*e/t<.—Allow 2153 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Ham, Potted eggs and a slice of ham to each porson. Seasonable at any time. iVo^e.—Ham may also bo toasted or broiled ; but, with the latter mothol, to insure its being well cooked, tlio fire must bo boautil'uUy clear, or it will have a smoky flavour far from agreeable. HAM, Potted, that v/ill keep Good for some time. Ingredients.— To 4 lbs. of lean ham allow 1 lb. of fat, 2 teaspoonfuls of pounded mace, h nutmeg grated, rather more than h teaspoonful of cayenne, clarified lard". Mode.—Mince the ham, fat and lean together in the above pro- portion, and pound it well in a mortar, Beasoniug it with cayenne pepper, pounded mace, and nutmeg ; put the mixture inlrj a deep baking-dish, and bako for h hour; then press it well into a stono jar, fill up the jar with clari- fied lard, cover it closely, and paste over it a pieco of thick paper. If well sea- soned, it will keep a long time in winter, and will be found very convenient for sandwiches, &c. Time.—^ hour. Sea- sonahle at any time. HAM, Potted (a nice addition to the Breakfast or Luncheon table). Ingredients.—To 2 lbs. of loan ham allow ^ lb. of fat, 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, h teaspoonful of pounded allspice, h nutmeg, pepper to taste, clari- fied butter. Mode.—Cut some slices from the remains of a cold ham, mince them small, and to every 2 lbs. of lean allow the above pi'opoilion of fat. Pound the ham in a mortar to a fine paste, with the fat, gradually add the seasonings and spices, and bo very particular that all the ingredients are well mi.xed and the spices well pounded. Press the mix- ture into pottiV j^-pots, pour over clarified butter, and 1 ecp it in a cool place. Average cost ior this quantity, 2s. iid. Seasonable at any time. HAM, to Bake. Ingredients.—Ilam ; a common crust. JlJoife.—As a ham for baking should be Willi soaked, let it remain in water for at least 12 hom-s. Wipe it dry, trim away any rusty places underneath, and cover it with a common crust, taking care that this is of sulficicnt thiclvnoss all over to keep the gravy in. Place it in a Ham, to Boil moderately-heated oven, and b.iko for nearly 4 hours. Take off the crust an 1 skin, and cover with raspinns, the name as for boiled ham, and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. This method of cooking a ham is, by many persons, con- sidered far superior to boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravy and has a finer flavour, besides keeping a much longer time good. Time. — A medium-sized ham, 4 hours. Average cost, from 8(^. to Is. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable all the year. HAM, to Boil. Ingredients.—Ham, water, glaze, or raspings. Mode. — In choosing a ham, ascertain that it is perfectly sweet, by running a sharp knife into it, close to the bone ; and if, when the knife is with- drawn, it has an agreeable smoU, the ham is good ; if, on the contrary, the blade has a greasy appearance and offen- sive smell, the bam is bad. If it has been BOILED Hi.U long hung, and is very dry and salt, let it remain in soak for 24 hours, changing the water frequently. This length of time is only necessary in the case of its being very hard ; from 8 to 12 hours would bo suflSoient for a Yorkshire or Westmore- land ham. Wash it thoroughly clean,- and trim away from the under-side all the rusty and smoked parts, which would spoil the appearance. Put it into a boil- ing-pot, with sufficient cold water to cover it; bring it gradually to boil, and as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Keep it simmering very gently until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiiing, nor boil too quickly. When done, take it out of the pot, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over it a few tine bread-raspings, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and servo. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in the water until nearly cold : by this method the juices are kept in, and it will be found infinitely superior to one taken out of the water hot; it should, however, bo borne in mind that the ham must not remain in the sauce- pan all night. Wkeu the skin is removed.153 THE DICTIO^TARY OF COOKEUY. Ham, to Boil sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if wanted" vtrticularly nice, gliizo It. Place a paper rill ruiind the knuckle, and trarnisli vyith )arsley or cut vegetable flowers. Time. —Ah iin weighing 10 lbs., 4 hours to sim- mer gadly ; 15 lbs., 5 hours; a very largo one, abo it 6 hours. Average cost, from Bd. to Is. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable all the year. HA M, how to Boil to ] give it an excellent flavour. Ingredients. — Vinegar and water, 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips, 3 onions, a large bunch of savoury herbs. Mode.— Prepare the ham as in the preceding recipe, and let it soak for a few hom-s in vinegar and water. Put it on in cold water, and when it boils, add the vege- tables and herbs. Simmer very gently until tender, take it out, strip off the skin, cover with bread-raspings, aua put paper niche or fiill round the knuckle. Time.—A ham weighing 10 lbs., 4 hours. Average cost, M. to Is. per lb. by the hole ham. Seasonable at any time. lAM, to Carve. In cutting a ham, the carver must be juided according as he desires to practise joonomv, or have, at once, fine slices lUt of the prime part. Under the tii-st pposition, he will commence at the lUckle end, and cut off thin slices owards the thick part of the ham. To ■each the choicer portion, the knife, which oust be very sharp and thin, should be sarried quite down to the bone, in the .irection of the lino 1 to 2, The slices 3(1 be thin and oven, and always cut VTi to the bone. There aro some who to carve a ham by cutting a hole at 10 top, and then slicing pieces off inside ie hole, gra<lually enlarging the circle ; lut wo think this is a plan not to bo 9Commcndod, A ham, when hot, is Jsually sent to table with a paper ruffle id tho knuckle. Hams, to Fickle HAMS, for Curing (Mona. Ude's Kecipe). Iiigr^dients.—For 2 hams weighing about 16 or 18 lbs. each, allow 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lb. of common salt, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 1 quart of good vinegar. Mode.—As soon as the pig is old enough to be cut u|.i, take the 2 hams and rub them well with common salt, and leave them in a large pan for 3 days. When the salt has drawn out all the blood, drain the hams, and throw the brine away. Mix sugar, salt, and saltpetre together in the above proportion, rub the ham:j woU with these, and put them into a vessel large enough to hold them, always keep- insr the salt over them. Let them remain for 3 days, then p >ur over them a quart of good vinegar. Turn them in the brine every day for a month, then drain them well, and rub them with bran. Have them smoked over a wood fire, and be particular that th<» hams are hung as high up as possible from '■■he fire; otherwise the fat will melt, and thoy will become dry and hard. Time.—To be pickled 1 month; to be smoked 1 month. <Si(i^t- cient for 2 hams of 18 lbs. each. Season- able from October to March. HAMS, to Cure Sweet, in tlie "West- moreland way. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of common salt, 3 lbs. of coarse sugar, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 3 quarts of strong beer. Mode.—Before the hams are put into pickle, rub them the preceding day well with salt, and drain the brine well from them. Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, and boil for ^ hour ; pour over the hams, and let them remain a month in tho pickle. Rub and turn them every day, but do not take them out of the pickling-pan; and have them smoked for a month. Time.— To be pickled 1 month ; to be smoked 1 month. Seasonable from October to March. HAMS, to Pickle (Suffolk Hecipe). Ingredients. —To a ham from 10 to 12 lbs., allow 1 lb. of coarse sui^ar, ^ lb. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, k a teacupful of vinegar. Mode.—Kub 'the hams well with common salt, and leave them for a day or two to drain ; then rub well in tho above proportion of sugar, salt, salt- petre, and vinegar, and turn tnom ovoryTHE DTCTIONAHY OF COOKEIIY. 154 Hnms, to Salt other Hay. Keep them in the pickle 1 month, drain tiieni, nnd send t.heni to bo sinol<od over a wood fire tor 3 weeks or a monih. Time.—To remain in tho pickle 1 month ; to be smoked 3 weeks or 1 month. SvfficieHt.—Tho above propor- tion of pickle is sufficient for 1 h;im. Seasovalle. — Hams should be pickled from October to March. HAMS, to Salt Two, about 12 or 15 lbs. each. Ingredienls.—^ lbs. of treacle, ^ lb. of saltjietre, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 2 pounds of common salt. Mode.—Tvio days before they are put into pickle, rub tho hams well with salt, to draw away all slime and blood. Throw what comes from tliem away, and then rub them with treacle, saltpetre, and salt. Lay them in a deep pan, and lei them remsiin one day ; boil the above proportion of treacle, saltpetre, Day-salt, and common salt for 5 hour, and pour this pickle boiling hot over the hams : there should be sufBcient of it to cover them- For a day or two rub them well with it; afterwards they will only require turning. They ought to remain in this pickle for 3 weeks or a month, and then be sent to be smoked, which will take nearly or quite a month to do. An ox- tongue pickled in this way is most excel- lent, to bo eaten either green or smoked. Time.—To remain in the pickle 3 weeks or a month ; to be smoked abouta month. Seasonable from October to March. HAMS, to Smoke, at Home. Take an old hogshead, stop up all the crevices, and fix a place to put a cross- stick near thebottom, to hang the articles to bo smoked on. Next, in the side, cut a hole near the top, to introduce an iron pan filled with sawdust and small pieces of green wood. Having turned the tub upside down, hang the articles upon the cross-stick, introduce the iron pan in the opening, and place a piece of red-hot iron in the pan, cover it with sawdust, and all will be complete. Let a large ham remain 40 hours, and keep up a good smoke. Fish may be smoked iu the same manner. HARE, Broiled (a Supper or Lun- cheon Dish). Infiredienis.—Tho legs and shoulders of a roast bare, ca-yenue and salt to taste, Hare, Jugged a little butter. J/w/e.—Cut the legs and shoulders from a roast hare, season tliom liiufhly with salt and cayenne, and bniil thorn over a very clear fire for 5 minuter. Dish them on a hot dish, rub over them a little cold butter, anfl send to tahl.j very quickly. Time.—5 minutes. HeatoiuihU from September to the end of February. HARE, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] JngredienU.-' The remains of cold roast hare, 1 blade ot' pounded mace, 2 or 3 allspice, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of ' savoury herbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of port wine, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tal)lespoonf)ils of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut thecoldhare into neat slices, , and put the head, bones, and trimmings 1 into a stewpan, with ^ pint of water; add ! the mace, allspice, seasoning, onion, and herbs, and stew for nearly an hour, and strain the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour, add the wine and ketchup, and . lay in the pieces of hare, with any stuflBng • that may be left. Let the whole gradually • heat by the side of the fire, and, when itt has simmered for about 5 minutes, serve, . and garnish the dish with sippets of. toasted bread. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time.—Rather more than . 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold hare, 6d. Sea-wnabUtrom September r to the end of February. , 1 HARE, Jugged (very good). Ingredients.—1 hare, \k lb. of gravy beef, i lb. of butter, 1 onion, 1 lemon, 6 cloves; pepper, cayenne, and salt to taste ; A pint of port wine. Mode.— Skin, paunch, and wash tho hare, cut it into pieces, dredfie them with flour, and fry in boiling butter. Have ready lA pint of gravy, made from the above proportion of beef, and thickened with a little fluur. Put this into a jar; add the pieces of fried hare, an onion stuck with six clov( a lemon peeled and cut in half, and good seasoning of pepper, ca3-ennc, and salt; cover the jar down tightly, put it up to the neck into a stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew until tho bare U quite tender, taking care to keep tha water boiling. When nearly done, pour in tho wine, and add a few forcemeat balls : these must bo fried or bak«d in the oven for a few minutes before they arc mit to the gravy. Soi-ve with red-currant j c'l}'. Time.—Z}^ to 4 hours. If the hare is roryTHE DTOTTONAEY Of COOKERY. 155 Hare, Jugged ■ 1, allow 4k hours. AveraffP. cost, 7s. ufficient tori or 8 persons. Seasonable om September to the end of February. :aRE, Jugged (a Quicker and more Economical Way). Ingredients.—1 hare, a bunch of sweet irbs, 2 onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, whole allspice, h teaspoonful of black pper, a strip of femon-peel, thickfiuing butter and flour, 2 tahlespoonfuls of iishroom ketchup, \ pint of port wine. ode.—Wash the hare nicely, cut it up to joints (not too large), and flour and own them as in the preceding recipe ; en put them into a stewpan with the rbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper, d lemon-peel; cover with hot water, d when it boils, carefully remove all 3 scum, and let it simmer gently till ider, which will be in about 1| hour, longer, .should the hare be very old. ke out the pieces of hare, thicken tlie ivy with flour and butter, add the ;chup and i)ort wine, let it boil fur )ut 10 minutes, strain it throug^h a ve over the hare, and serve. A few sd forcemeat balls should be added at 1 moment of serving, or, instead of ing them, tiiey may bo stewed in the vy, about 10 minutes before the hare wanted for table. Do not omit to serve -currant jelly with it. Time.—Alto- her 2 hours. Average cost, 5s. 6d. Hcieni for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable n September to the end of February. Tote.—Should there be any leit, re- m it the next day by putting the 9, &c., into a covered jar, and placing jar in a saucepan of boiling water ; method prevents a great deal of td. lBE, Potted (a Luncheon or reakfast Dish). igredients.—1 hare, a few slices of )n, a large bunch of savoury herbs, 4 es, \ teaspoonful of whole allspice, 2 ots, 2 onions, salt and pepper to J, 1 pint of water, 2 glasses of sherry. e.—Skin, empty, and wa.sh the hare ; t down the middle, and put it into a pan, with a few slices of bacon under over it; add the remaining ingredi- , and stow very gently until the hare ^ndcr, and the flesh will separate «y from the bones. When done •1 Lch, take it up, remove the bones, • pound the meat, wUli. l/ie bacon, in a I Hare, Roast mortar, until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Should it not be suffi- ciently seasoned, add a little cayenne, salt, and pounded mace, but be careful that these are well mixed with the other innredients. Press the meat into pot- ting-pots, pour over clarified butter, and keep in a dry place. The liquor that the hare was stewed in, should be saved for hashes, soups, &c. &c. Tine.—About 2h hours to stew the hare. Seasonable from September to the end of February. HARE, Roast. Ingredients.—Hare, forcemeat, a little milk, butter. Choosing and. Trussing.— Choose a young hare ; which may be known by its smooth and sharp claws, and by the cleft iu the lip not being much spread. To be eaten in perfection, it must hang for some time ; and, if properly taken care of, it may bo kept for several days. It is better to hang without being paunched ; but should it be previously emptied, wipe the inside every day. and sprinkle over it a little pepper and giuL'-er, to prevent the musty tasie which long keeping in the damp occa- sions, and also which affects the .stuffing. After it is skinned, wash it well, and soak for an hour in warm water to dr.aw out the blood ; if old, let it lie in vinegar for a short time, but wash it well afterwards in several waters. ^lake a forcemeat, wipe the hare dry, fill the belly with it, aud sew it up. Bring the BOAST HARE. hind and fore legs close to the body to- wards the head, run a skewer through each, fix the head between the shoul- ders by means of another skewer, ,ind bo careful to leave the ears on. Put a string round the borly from skewer to skewer, and tie it above the back. Mode.—The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire when it is first laid down, or the outside will become dry and hard before the inside is done. Baste it well with n)ilk for a short time, and afterwards with butter ; and par- ticular attention must be paid to the basting, so as to preserve the meat on the back juicy aud nutritive. When itTHE dictionahy of cookery 156 Ilare, Boast, to Carvo is almost roasted enough, flour the bare, nnd haste well with butter. When nicely frothed, dish it, remove the skewers, and send it to ttib'o with a liti.lo gravy in tlio dish, and a tureen of the same. Ked-currant jelly must also not be for- gotten, as this is an indispensable ac- companiment to roast hare. For eco- nomj', good beef dripping may be sub- Btitnted for the milk and butter to basto with ; but the biistinjj, as we have he- fore stated, must be continued without intermission. If the liver is good, it may be parboiled, minced, and mixed with the stuffing; but it should not he used unless quite fresh. Time.—A mid- dling-sizeii hare, 1^ hour; a large hare, Ih to 2 hours. Average cost, from 4s. to 6s. Siifficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season- able from So]ptember to the ond of Feb- ruary. IIA.RE, Hoast, to Carve. The " Grand Carver " of olden times, a functionary of no ordinary dignity, was pleased when he had a hare to manipu- late, for his skill and grace had an opportunity or' display. Dbiers d la liusse may possibly, ere- while, save modern gentlemen the neces- sity of learning the art which was in auld lang syne one of the necessary accom- plishments of the youthful squire ; but, until side-tables become universal, or till we see the office of "grand carver" once mor" instituted, it will be well for all to learn how to assist at the carving of this dish, which, if not the most elegant in appoar.ance, is a very general favourite. The hare, having its head to the left, as shown in the woodcut, should he first sei-ved by cutting slices from each side of the backbone, in the direction of the lines from 3 to 4. After these prime parts are disposed of, the log should next be disengaged by cuttina: round the line indicated by the figures 5 to 6. The shoulders will then be taken off by pass- ing the knife round from 7 to 8. The liack of the hare should now be divided by cutting quite through its spine, as shown by tho line 1 to 2, taking care to feel with the point of the knife for a )oiut whore tlio bac)£ may bo readily BOAST HABB. Herb Powder penetrated. It is tho usual plan not too serve any hone in helping hare; and thus tho flesh should bo sliced from tho legs and placed nlono on tho plato. lu largo establishments, and where men. cooks are kept, it is often tho cuso that the backbone of tho hare, especially in old animals, is taken out, and then the process of carving is, of course, con- siderably facilitated. A great point to be remembered in connection with carv- ing hare is, that plenty of gravy should accompany each helping, otherwise this ^ dish, which is naturally dry, will loso half its flavour, and so become a failure.;. Stuffing is also served with it; and tha» ears, which should be nicely crisp, and! the brains of the hare, are esteemed aS4 delicacies by many connoisseurs. ;<ii< hi! HAEE SOUP Ingredients.—A hare fresh-killed, 1 Ib.>. it of lean gravy-beef, a slice of ham, 11 ^aj carrot, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury;! Bo herbs, ^ oz. of whole black pepper, little browned flour, ^ pint of port wi the crumb of two French rolls, salt aoi cayenne to taste, 3 quarts of wai Mode.—Skin and paunch the hare, ing the liver and as much blood as po: ble. Cut it in pieces, and put it in stewpan with all tho ingredients, simmer gently for 6 hours. This & should be made tho day before it wanted. Strain through a sieve, puttl best parts of tho hare in the soup, serve. HARE SOUP. Proceed as above ; but, instead of put-VI'*' ting the joints of the hare in the soup, [ pick tho meat from the bones, pound it . in a mortar, and add it, with tho cnimb ^ of two French rolls, to tho soup. Rub all through a sieve ; heat slowly, Imt dr . not let it boil. Send it to table i- diatoly. Time.—8 hours. Arm' Is. 9d. per quart. Seasonahle from tcmbur to February. Sufficient for 10 i persons. HERB POWDER, for Flavouring ' when Fresh Herbs are not ob- \ taiuable. i Ingredients. — 1 oz. of dried lemon* thyrne, 1 oz. of dried winter savory, 1 oz. of dried sweet marjonim and 2 oz. of dried parsley, 1 oz. of ■157 THE DlCTlONAny OF COOKERt. Herbs, to Dry on-pcel. i1/o</e.—Prepare and dry beibs, pick the leaves from the Iks, pound them, and sift them oufih a hair sieve; mix in the above purtiuns, and keep in glnss bottles, •fully excluding the air. This we k a far better method of keeping bs, as the flavour and fragrance do evaporate so much as when they are i-ely put in paper bags. Preparing m in this way, you have them ready use at a moment's notice. Mint, lp, parsley, &:c., dried, pounded, and <h put into separate bottles, wiil be pd very useful in winter. CKB S, to Dry, for Winter Use. in a very dry day, gather the herbs, I before they begin to flower. If this lone when the weather is damp, the lbs will not be so good a colour. (It lery necessary to be particular in little Iters like this, for trillcs constitute lection, and herbs nicely dried will Ire Id very acceptable when frost and wf are on the ground. It is hardly Essary, however, to state that the fla- t and fragrance of fre.>h herbs are in- Iparably fiuer.) They should be per- ly freed fi om dirt and dust, and be lied into small bunches, with their Is cut off. Dry them quickly in a w hot oven, or before the fire, as by I means most of their flavour will bo lervcd, and be carelul not to burn la ; tie them up in paper bags, and l> in a dry place. This is a very ftral way of preserving dried herbs ; mre would recommend the plan de- med in a former recipe. Seasonable, worn the month of July to the end of leipber is the proper time for storing Is for winter use. feniNGS, White, Baked. Mgredieyils.—12 herrings, 4 bay-leaves, Boves, 12 allspice, 2 small blades of m, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, Bient vinegar to fill up tho dish. We.—Take herrings, cutoff tho heads, l^ut them. Put them in a pie-dish, mm and tails alternately, and, between ■ layer, sprinkle over tho above in- ■tonts. Cover the fish with tho vine- ■kind bake for ^ hour, but do not use Wk quite cold. The herrings may be ■own the front, tho backbone taken Hiiid closed again. Sprats done in Hodge-Podge this way are very delicious. Time.—^ an hour. Average cost, Id. each. To Choose the Herring.—The more scales this fish has, the surer the sign of its freshness. It should also have a bright and silvery look ; but if red about the head, it is a sign that ithas been dead for some time. HEBEINGS, Eed.or YARMOUTH BLOATERS. The best way to cook these is to make incisions in the skin across the fish, be- cause they do not then require to be so long on the fire, and will be far better than when cut open. The hard roe makes a nice relish by pounding it in a mortar, with a little anchovy, and spreading it on toast. If very dry, soak in warm water 1 hour before dressing. HIDDEN MOUNTAIN, The (a pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients.—6 eggs, a few slices of citron, sugar to taste, \ pint of cream, a layer of any kind of jam. Mode.—Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs sepa- rately ; then mix them and beat well again, adding a few tbin slices of citron, the cream, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten it nicely. When the mixture is well beaten, put it into a buttered pan, and fry the same as a pancake ; but it should be three times the thickness of an ordinary pancake. Cover it with jam, and garnish with slices of citron and holly-leaves. This dish is served cold. Time.—About 10 minutes to fry the mix- ture. Average cost, with the jam, Is. id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. HODGE-PODGE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 quarts of water, 1 pint of table-beer, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery ; pepper and salt to taste ; thick- ening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put th© meat, beer, and water ina stewpan ; sim- mer for a few minutes, and skim care- fully. Add the vegetables and season- ing ; stew gently till tho meat is tender. Thicken with the butter and flour, and servo with turnips and carrots, or spinach and celery. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 3d. per quart. Seasonalle at any time. Snfficienl lor 12 persons.1S8 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKER"?. nodge-Podge HODGE-PODGE. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. ~»About 1 lb. of underdone cold mut- ton, 2 leitucos, 1 pint of groen peas, 6 or 6 green onions, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, i teacuplul of Water. Mode.—Mince i&e mutton, and cut up the lettuces and onions in slices. Put those in a stewpan, with all the ingredients except the peas, and let these simmer very gently for ^ hour, keeping them well stirred. Boil the peas separately, mix these with the mutton, and serve very hot. Time.—^ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the end of May to August, HOLLY-LEAVES, to Frost, for Garnishing and JDecorating Des- sert and Supper Dishes. Inrjredients.—Sprigs of holly, oiled butter, coarsely-powdered sugar. Mode. —Pruuure somo nice sprigs of holly ; pick the leaves from the stalks, and wipe them with a clean cloth free Irom all moisture; then place them on a dish near the fire, to get thoroughly dry, but not too near to sljrivol the leaves ; dip them into oiled butter, sprinkle over them some coarsely-powdered sugar, and dry them before the tire. They should be kept in a dry place, as the least damp would spoil their appearance. Ttme.— About 10 minutes to dry before the fire. Seasonable.—These may be made at any time ; but are more suitable for winter garnishes, when fresh flowers are not easily obtained. HONEY CAKE. Ingredients. — h breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of rich sour cream, 2 breakfast-cujjfuls of flour, ^ tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, honey to taste. Mode.—Mix the sugar and cream together ; dredge in tho flour, with as much honey as will flavour the mixture nicely ; stir it well that all the ingredi- ents may be thoroughly mixed ; add the carbonate of soda, and beat the cake •well tor another 5 minutes ; put it into a buttered tin, bake it from A to j hour, and let it be oaten warm. Time.—^ to § hour. A venige cost, 8d. Sufficient for B or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. HOBSEBADISn. This root, scraped, is always served Hot Spico with hot roast beef, and is used for ga : Dishing many kinds of boiled fish. L« the horseradish remain in cold water U an hour; wash it well, and with a sbai knife scrape it into very thin shre- commencing from the thick end of tl < root. Arrange somo of it lightly la i lig i small glass dish, and tho remainder iif4 eW for garnishing the joint; it should b( si placed in tufts round the border of tbi dish, with 1 or 2 bunches on tho meaw ;|K Average cost, 2d. per stick. Seasonal. from October to June, HOESERADISH SAUCE, to serv" with Koast Beef. Ingredients.—4tablespoonfuls of grate horseradish, 1 teaspoonful of pound', i sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, h tea-spooi ful of pepper, 2 teaspooufuls of madi mustard ; vinegar. Mode. —Grate tili horseradish, and mix it well with tiU sugar, salt, pepper, and mustart,* moisten it with sufficient vinegar to gill it the consistency of cream, and serveiI a tureen ; 3 or 4 tablespoon! uls of crea^ added to the above very much iraprov j the appearance and Qavour of this sauce To heat it to serve with hot roast' put it in a bain marie or a jar, w place in a saucepan of boiling wal make it hot, but do not allow it to boi or it will curdle. i Note.—'L'his sauce is a j^reat improve t ment on the old-fashioned way of servin t cold-scraped horseradish with hot roaaj beef. The mixing of the cold viur with the warm gravy cools and s everything on the plate. Of coinso, cold meat, the sauce should be served t.Li|w^] HOHSERADISH VINEGAE. 1 Ingredients.—i lb. of scraped hoiW ■i.i radish, 1 oz, of minced shalot, 1 dradM t ^ of cayenne, 1 quart of vinegar. Modt.^' **i Put all tho ingredients into a bott«Jfl«i, which shake well every day for n Ion' night. When it is thoroughly ^ strain and bottle, and it will be use immediately. This will be foundif agreeable relish to cold beef, L^. ScoM able.—This vinegar should bo madoeil in October or November, as horeei-ad is then in its highest perfection. HOT SPICE (a Delicious Adjiuic f to Chops, Steaks, Gi avies, &c.) Ingredients, -3 drachms each of jpuTEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 159 Ice-Creams, Fruit r, black popper, and cinnamon, 7 )ves, A oz. maco, ^ oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. ated nutmeg, 1^ oz. white pepper. ode.—Pound the ingrerlients, and mix em thorou.;hly together, taking care It everything is well blended. Put the ce in a very dry glass bottle for use. e quantity of cayenne may be in- ;ased, should the above not be enough suit the palate. B-CREAMS, Fruit. Ingredients.—To every pint of fruit- ce allow 1 pint of cream; sugar to ite. Mode. — Let the fruit be well ened ; pick it off the stalks, and put nto a large earthen pan. Stir it about ,h a wooden spoon, breaking it until it well mashed ; then, with tiie back of 1 spoon, rub it through a hair sieve, eeten it nicely with pounded sugar; ip the cream for a few minutes, add it ihe fruit, and whisk the whole again another 5 minutes. Put the mixture 3 the freezing-pot, and freeze, taking e to stir the cream, &c., two or three es, and to remove it from the sides of vessel, that the mixture may beequally sen and smooth. Ices are usually red in glasses, but if moulded, as they letimes are for dessert, must have a ill quantity of melted isinglass added ;bem, to enable them to keep their pe. Raspberry, strawberry, currant, all fruit ice-creams, are made in the le manner. A little pounded sugar akled over the fruit before it is ihed assists to extract the juice. In ter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable, itle jam may be substituted for it: it aid be melted and worked through a e before being added to the whipped im; and if the colour should not be i, a little prepareil cochineal or beet- ; may be put in to improve its earance. yme.—A hour to freeze the tnre. Average cost, with cream at I per pint, 4(/. each ice. Seasonable, fresh fruit, in June, July, and l5ust. ^' 13, Lemon-water. \ifjred!ents.—'So every pint of syrup, |iv pint of lemon-juice; the rind of I nions. Mode.—linh the sugar on the 1 5 of the lemons, and with it make the ■kp. Strain the lemon-juice, add it to the fc-ingredients, stir well, and put the ■lure into a freezing-pot. Freeze as Ices directed for Ice Pudding, and when the mixture is thoroughly and equally frozen, put it into ice-glasses. Time.—\ hour to freeze the mixture. Averatje cost, 3d. to 4d. each. Seasonable at any time. ICED-PUDDIISra (Parisian Ke- cipe). Ingredients.—J lb. of sweet almonds, 2 oz. of bitter ones, ^ lb. of sugar, 8 egga, 1^ pint of milk. Mode.—Blanch and dry the almonds thoroughly La a cloth, then pound them in a mortar until re- duced to a smooth paste ; add to these the well-beaten eggs, tht sugar, and milk ; stir these ingredients over the fire until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil; then strain and put the mixture into the freezing-pot; surround it with ice, and freeze it. When quite fi.jzen, fill an iced-pudding mould, put (u the lid, and keep the pudding in ice until required for table; then turn it out on the dish, and garnish it with a compOle oi ICED-PUDDINQ MOXJLD. any fruit that may be preferred, pouring a little over the top of the pudding. This pudding may be flavoured with vanilla, Cura9oa, or Maraschino. Time.—^ hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable. —Served all the year round. ICES. Ices are composed, it is scarcely neces- sary to say, of congealed cream or water, combined sometimes with liqueurs or other flavouring ingredients, or more generally with the juices of fruits. At desserts, or at some evening parties, ices are scarcely to be dispensed with. The principal utensils required for making ice-creams are ice-tubs, freezing-pots.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. ICO Ices, to make Fruit-water epndJlos, and a cellaret. The tul) must bo largo enough to cuniain about a hn.sliul of ice, poundeil eiuall, when broiigbt, out of the ice-house, and mixed very care- fully with either mlt, mire, or soda. The Oeeziijg-pot is best maiio of pewter. If it be of tin, as is sometimes the case, the congelation goes on too i-apidly in it for the I borough intermingling of its con- tonls, on which the excellence of the ice greatly depends. The spaddle is gene- rally made of copper, kept bright and clean. The cellaret is a tin vessel, in which ices are kept for a short time from dissolving. The method to be pursued in the freezing process must bo attended to. "When the ice tub is prepared with fresh- pounded ice and salt, the freezing-pot is put into it up to its cover. The articles to be congealed are then poured into it and covered over; but to prevent the ingredients from separating and the heaviest of them from falling to the bot- tom of the mould, it is requisite to turn the freezing-pot round and round by the handle, so as to keep its contents moving until the congelation commences. As soon as this is perceived (the cover of the pot being occasionally taken off for the purpose of noticing when freezing takes place), the cover is immediately closed over it, ice is put upon it, and it is left in this state till it is served. The use of the spaddla is to stir up and remove from the sides of the freezing-pot the cream, which in the shaking may have washed against it, and by stirring it in with the rest, to prevent waste of it occurring. Any negligence in stirring the contents of the freezing-pot before congelation takes place, will destroy the whole: cither the sugar sinks to the bottom and leaves the ice insufficiently sweetened, or lumps are formed, which disfigure and dis- colour it. ICES, to make Fruit-water. Inr/redients.—To every pint of fruit- juice allow 1 pint of syrup. Mode.— Select nice ripe fmit; pick off the stalks and put it into a large earthen pan, with a little pounded sugar strewed over ; stir it about with a wooden spoon until it is well broken, then rub it through a hair sieve. Make a syrup, without white of egg; let it cool, add the fruit-juice, mix well together, and put the mixture into the freezing-pot. Proceed as di- rected for Ice Puddings, and wlieu tho Icing, Sugar, for Cakoa mixture is equally frozen, put it intosmw glasbos. liaspbeny, struwherry, ciM SISH OF ICES. rant, and other fresh-fruit-water ices, aj made in the fame manner. Time.— hour to freeze tho mi xture. A verage coi Zd. io id. each. SeasonaMe, niih. fret fruit, in June, July, and August. ICING, Almond, for Cakes. Ingredients.—To every lb. of finel* pounded loaf sugar, allow 1 lb. of swi almonds, the whites of 4 eggs, a litt rosewater. Mode. —Blanch the almond and pound them (a few at'"a time) in mortar to a paste, adding a little n s ^ water to facilitate the operation. \\'h\: l the whites of tho eggs to a strong fruUfjK. mix them with the pounded almondi^' stir in the sugar, and beat altogeihc When the cake is sufficiently baked, la on the almond icing, and put it into oven to dry. Before laj'ing this pre_ tion on the cake, great care mu=t I taken that it is nice and smooth, whic is easily accomplished by well beating mixture. ICING, Sugar, for Cakea. Ingredients. — To every lb. of loa i sugar allow tho whites of 4 OL'gs, I oz. t i fine starch. Mode.—Boat the eggs to I strong froth, and gradually sift in th I sugar, which should be reduced to t.. finest possible powder, and gradually ad i tho starch, also finely powdered. De:' t tho mixture well until tho sugar i \ smooth ; then with a spimn or broa ( knife Ifiy the ice equally over the cake! i These should then be placed in a vcr f cool oven, and the icing allowed to dr j and harden, but not to colour. Tb j icing may he coloured with strawberry o | currant juice, or with piepared ncal. If it bo put on the cake,- as they aro withdrawn from the • will become firm and hard by li the cakes aro cold. On very ric such as wedding, christening cak^ a layer of almond icing is usually .'j r<.u i over tho top, and over that the wliit icing as described. All iced cakes shoul bo kept in a very dry place.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 161 Invalid Cookery rVALID COOKEBY. AfeioRiiles to he olserved in Cooking for Invalids. Let all the kitchen utensils used in the ^paration of invalids' cookery be deli- ;ely and scrupulously clean ; if this is D the case, a disagreeable flavour may- imparted to the preparation, which i-our may disgust, and prevent the pa- nt from partaking of the refreshment en brought to him or her, ?or invalids, never make a large quan- Y of one thing, as they seldom require ich at a time ; and it is desirable that •iety be provided for them. Mways have something in readiness ; ittle beef tea, nicely made and nicely mmed, a few spoonfuls of jelly, &c., ., that it may be administered as soon nost as the iavalid wishes for it. If liged to •5rait a long time, the patient es the desire to eat, and often turns linst the food when brought to him or [n sending dishes or preparations up invalids, let everything look as tempt- ', as possible. Have a clean tray-cloth li smoothly over the tray; let the )ons, tumblers, cups and saucers, &c., very clean and bright. Gruel served a tumbler is more appetizing than en served in a basin or cup and sau- i,8 milk is an important article of food the sick, in warm weather let it be st on ice, to prevent its turning sour, ny other delicacies may also be pro- ved good in the same manner for some ;le time. f the patient bo allowed to eat vege- iles, never send them up undercooked, half raw ; and let a small quantity y be temptingly arranged on a dish, is rule will apply to every preparation, W an invalid is much more likely to I'oy his food if small delicate pieces are ' cd to him. jver leave food about a sick-room ; if Maticnt cannot eat it when brought m, take it av/ay, and bring it to him n hour or two's time. Miss Nightin- i_ ■; says, " To leave the patient's un- I.ted food by his side from meal to •al, in hopes that he will eat it in the crval, is simply to prevent him from :ing any food at all." Slio says, "I ■ known patients literally incapaci- 1 from taking one article of food after !ier by this piece of ignorance. Let Invalid Cookery the food come at the right time, and ba taken away, eaten or uneaten, at the right time, but never let a patient have 'something always standing' by him, if you don't wish to disgust him of every- thing." Never serve beef tea or broth with the smallest particle of fat or grease on the surface. It is better, after making either of these, to allow them to get perfectly cold, when all the fat may be easily re- moved ; then warm up as much as may be required. Two or three pieces of clean whity-brown paper laid on the broth will absorb any greasy particles that may be floating at the top, as the grease will cling to the paper. Roast mutton, chickens, rabbits, calves' feet or head, game, fish (simply (U-essed), and simple puddings, aro all light food, and easily digested. Of course, these things are only partaken of supposing the patient is recovering. A mutton chop, nicely cut, trimmed, and broiled to a turn, is a dish to be re- commended for invalids ; but it must not be served xoilh all the fit at the end, nor must it be too thickly cut. Lot it be cooked over a fire free from smoke, and sent up with the gravy in it, between twc very hot plates. Nothing is more dia- agreeable to an invalid than smoked food. In making toast-and-water, never blacken the bread, but toast it only a nice brown. Never leave toast-aud-water to make until the moment it is required, as it cannot then be properly prepai'ed,— at least the patient will be obliged to drink it warm, which is anything but agreeable. In boiling eggs for invalids, let the white be just set; if boiled hard, they will be likely to disagree with the patient. In Miss Nightingale's admirabla "Notes on Nursing," a book that no mother or nurse should be without, she says,—" You cannot be too careful as to quality in sick-diet. A nurse should never put before a patient milk that is sour, meat or soup that is turned, an egg that is bad, or vegetables underdone. Yet often, she says, she has seen these things brought in to the sick, in a state perfectly perceptible to every fiose or eye except the nurse's. It is here that the clever nurse appears,—she will not bring in the peccant article; but, not to disap- point the patient, she will whip up some- thing else in a few minutes. Remember, that sick-cookery should half do the GTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 162 Invalid's Cutlet work of your poor patient's weak diges- tion. yhe goes on to caution nurses, by saying,—" Take care not to spill into your patient's saucer; in other words, take care that the outside bottom rim of his cup shall be quite dry and clean. If, «very time he lifts his cup to his lips, he has to carry the saucer with it, or else to drop the liquid upon and to soil his sheet, or bedgown, or pillow, or, if he is sitting up, his dress, you have no idea what a difference this minute want of care on * your part makes to his comfort, and even to his willingness for food." INVALID'S CUTLET. Ingredients.—1 nice cutlet from a loin or neck of mutton; 2 teacupfuls of water; 1 very small stick of celery ; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have the cutlet cut fi-om a very nice loin or neck of mut- ton, take off all the fat, put it into a stewpan with the other ingredients ; stew very gently indeed for nearly 2 hours, and skim off every particle of fat that may rise to the surface from time to time. The celerj' should be cut into thin slices botore it is added to the meat, and care must be taken not to put in too much of this, or the dish will not be good. If the water is allowed to boil last, the cut- let will be hard. Time.—2 hours very gentle stewing. Average cost, b'tZ. Sv^flicienl for one person. Seasonable.— "Whenever celei-y may be had. INVALID'S JELLY. Ingredients.—12 shanks of mutton, 3 quarts of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, pcpperaud salt to taste, 3 blades of mace, 1 onion, 1 lb. of lean beef, a crust of bread toasted brown. Mode.—Soak the shanks in plenty of water for some hours, and scrub them well; put them, with the beef and other ingredients, into a sauce- pan with the water, and let. them simmer very gently for 5 hours. Strain the broth, and, when cold, take off all the fat. It may be oaten either warmed up or cold as a jelly. T^me.—5 hours. Average cost, li. Sufficient to make from 1.^, to 2 pints of jelly. SiiasonalLe at any time. INVALIDS, Lemonade for. Ingredients.—\ lemon, lump sugar to taste, 1 pint of b'oiliug water. Mode.— Pare off tho rind of tho lemon thinly; Januar ; Bills of Pare cut the lemon into 2 or 3 thick slice and remove as much as possil)le of tfal wliite o\itfiirlo juth, and all the pips. Pc^ tho slices of lemon, the peel, and lunj sugar into a jug ; pour over the boilin water; cover it closely, and in 2 boura • will be fit to drink. It should either b strained or poured off from the sedimenti Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 2d. Sujj* cient to make 1 pint of lemonade. Seo j sonzble at any time, JAM ROLY-POLY PTJDDINQ. Ingredients.—J lb. of suet-crust, J HI of any kind of jam. Mode.—Make a nic light suet-crust, and ^ollitout to the thick ncss of about ^ inch. Spread the jaoi equally over it, leaving a small margin of paste without any, where the puddin joins. Roll it up, fasten the ends sfs curely, and tie it in a floured cloth ; pm the pudding into boiling water, and bo for 2 hours. Mincemeat or marmalad I may be substituted for the jam, aju makes excellent puddings. Timt. , hom"s. Average cost, 9d. Snfficient & 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle.—Siiitala for winter puddings, when fresh fruit i not obtainable. JANUARY-BILLS OP PARE.- Dinner for 18 persons. \ First Course. GQ t3 Moek-Tnrtlo Soup, removeH I'y Cod's Head and Sboulders. Vase of Cleiir Oxtail Soup, romoved by Fried Filleted Soles. C5 o 3i Entries. ST" BiL de Yeau aux lomates. Vase of Flowers. o c '5 a-- — Ponlet h laMarengo.THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 163 January—Bills of Fare Second Course. Eoast Turkey. oilod T' Celery Pigeon Pie. 8 Vase of w a Flowers. o Tongue, garnished. 'o M Saddle of Mutton. r/iiVcZ Course, p. Pheasants, B p* o removed by >-3 ^ p r<. ^ Plum-Pudding. )tte Bien Jelly. <) o ? 3 Vase of § g Flowers. g P O Jelly. o a Snipes, removed by Maids of Hono to o • <B Pommes a la Cond^. [Jiniier for 12 persons. First Course.—Carrot soup ilia Cr€cy ; «-tail soup ; turbot and lobster sauce ; ried smelts, with Dutch sauce. Entrees. Hutton cutlets, with Soubise sauce; iweetbroads ; oyster patties ; fillets of 'abbits. Second Course. —Roast turkey; tewed rump of beef h, la jardiniere; )oiled ham, garnished with Brussels iprouts ; boiled chickens and celery laiice. Third Course.—Roast hare; teal; (ggs h. la neige; vol-au-vent of preserved niit; 1 j' tly; 1 cream ; potatoes k la naltre d'hfitel; grilled mushrooms; lesserb and ices. Jinner for 10 persons. First Course. - Soup h. la Reine ; whit- ngs au gratin ; crimped cod and oyster auce. Eh tries. — Tendrons de vcau ; (urriftd fowl and boiled rice. Second Toitiw.—Turkey, stuffed with chestnuts, ;nd chestnut sauce ; boiled leg of mut- on, Enjflish fashion, with caper sauce nd mashed tumipflt Third Course.— Woodcocks or partridges; widgeon; January—Bills of Fare Charlotte k la vauille ; cabinet p\idding ; orange jelly; blancmange; artichoke liot- toms ; macaroni, with Parmesan cheese; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course. — Mulligatawny sotip ; brill and shrimp sauce ; fried whitings. Entrees.—Fricasseed chicken ; pork cut- lets, with tomato sauce. Second Course.— Haunch of mutton; boiled turkey and celery sauce; boiled tongue, garnished with Brussels sprouts. Third Course.— Roast pheasants ; meringues k la crfeme ; comp6te of npples ; orange jelly ; cheese- cakes ; souSid of rice ; dessert and ices. Dinners for 6 persons. First Course.—Julienne soup ; soles h la Normandie. Entrees.—Sweetbreads, with sauce piquante; mutton cutlets, with mashed potatoes. Second Course.— Haunch of venison; boiled fowls and bacon, garnished with Brussels sprouts. Third Course.—Phmi-pudding ; custards in glasses; apple tart; fondue h, la Brillat Savarin; dessert. First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; fried slices of codfish and anchovy sauce; John Dory. Entrees. — Stewed rump- steak k la jardinifere ; rissoles ; oyster patties. Second Course.—Leg of mutton; curried rabbit and boiled rice. Third Course.—Partridges; apple fritters ; tart- lets of greengage jam j orange jelly; plum-pudding; dessert. First Course.—Pea-soup ; baked had- dock ; soles h. la creme. Entries.—Mut- ton cutlets and tomato sauce; fricasseed rabbit. Second Coztrse.—Roast pork and apple sauce ; breast of veal, rolled and siuffod ; vegetables. Third Course. — Jugged hare; whipped cream ; blanc- mange ; mince pies ; cabinet pudding. First Course. —Palestine soup ; fried smelts ; stewed eels. Entries. —'Raffotil of lobster; broiled mushrooms; vol au- vent of chicken. Second Course.—Sirloin of beef; boiled fowls and celery sauce; tongue, garnished with Brussels sprouts. Third Course.—Wild ducks; Charlotte aux pommes ; cheesecakes ; transparent jelly, inlaid with brandy cherries ; blano- mange; Nesselrode pudding.THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 164 January, Plain Family Dinners JANUARY, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Boiled turbot and oyster Bauco, potatoes. 2. Roast log or griskin of pt rk, apple sauce, brocoli, potatoes. 8. Cabinet pudding, and damson tart made wiih preserved damsons. Monday.—1. The remains of turbot •warmed in oyster sauce, potatoes. 2. Cold pork, stewed steak. 3. Open jam tart, wbicb should have been made with the pieces of paste left from the damson tart; baked arrowroot pudding. Timday.—1. Boiled neck of mutton, carrots, mashed turnips, suet dumplings, and caper sauce: the broth should bo served first, and a little rice or pearl barley should be boiled in it along with the meat. 2. Rolled jam pudding, Wednesday.—1. Roast rolled ribs of beef, greens, potatoes, and horseradish sauce. 2. Bread-and-butter pudding, cheesecakes. Thursday. — 1. Vegetable soup (the bones from the ribs of beef should be boiled down with this soup), cold beef, mashed potatoes. 2. Pheasants, gravy, bread sauce. 3. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Fried whitings or soles. 2. Boiled rabbit and onion sauce, minced beef, potatoes. 3. Currant dumplings. Saturday.—1. Rump-steak pudding or pie, greens, and potatoes. 2. Baked custard pudding and stewed apples. Sunday.—1. Codfish and oyster sauce, potatoes. 2. Joint of roast mutton, ei- ther leg, haunch, or saddle ; brocoli and potatoes, red-currant jelly. 3. Apple tart and custai-ds, cheese. Monday.—1. The remains of codfish picked from the bone, and warmed through in the oyster sauce; if there is no sauce left, order a few oysters and make a little fresh ; and do not let the fish boil, or it will be watery. 2. Curried rabbit, with boiled rice served separately, cold mutton, mashed potatoes. 3. Somer- setshire dumplings with wine sauce. Tuesday.—1. Boiled fowls, parsley-and- butter; bacon garnished with Brussels sprouts ; minced or hashed mutton. 2. Baroness pudding. Wednesday.—'].. The remains of the fowls cut up into joints and fricasseed ; joint of roast pork and apple sauce, and, if liked, sago and-onion, sei-ved on a dish by itself; turnips and potatoes. 2. Iiemon pwdding, either baked or boiled. Jaunemange Thursday.—!. Cold pork and jugj^ed hare, red-currant jelly, mashed potatoes, 2. Apple pudding. Friday.—1. Boiled beef, either the aitchbone or the silver sideof the round; carrots, turnips, suet dumplings, and. potatoes; if there is a marrow-bono,' serve the marrow on toast at the same time. 2. Rice snowballs. Saturday. — 1. Pea-soup made from liquor in which beef was boiled; cold . beef, mashed potatoes. 2. Baked batter • fruit pudding. JANUARY, Tilings in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, , crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, . herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whit- ings. Meat. — Beef, house lamb, mutton, , pork, veal, venison. Poultry.—Capons, fowls, tame pigeons,, pullets, rabbits, turkeys. Game. — Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipe, wild-fowl, woodcock. Vegetables. — Beetroot, brocoli, cab- bages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses,, | cucumbers (forced), endive, lettuces, par- snips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, turnips, various herbs. Fmit.—Apples, grapes, medlars, nuts, ! oranges, pears, walnuts, crystallized pre- I serves (foreign), dried fruits, such as? I almonds and raisins; French and Spanish | plums; prunes, figs, dates. JAUNEMANGE, Ingredients.—1 oz. of isinglass, 1 pint of water, ^ pint of white wine, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon, sugar to taste, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the isinglass, water, and loraon-rind into a saucepan, and boil gently until the former is dissolved; then add the strained lemon-juice, the wine, and suf- ficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Boil for 2 or 3 minutes, strain the mixture into a jug, and add the yolks of the eggs, winch should be well beaten ; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water ; keep stirring the mixture one way until it thickens, hut do not i allow it to boil; then take it off the fire, X and keep stirring until nearl\' cold. Pour i it into a mould, omitting the sediment f at the bottom of the jug, and let it rp- i IfTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 165 Jellies ain until quite firm. Time.—,j hour to )il tlio isiiiijlass ami water; about 10 inutes to stir the mixture in the jug. veraffe cost, with the best isinglass, 9d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. usonaUe at any time. SLLIES Are not the nourishing food they were one time considered to be, and many ainent physicians are of opinion that ey are less digestible than the flesh, or uscular part of animals; still, when idulated with lemon-juice and fla- ured with wine, they are very suitable some convalescents. Vegetable jelly a distinct principle, existing in fruits, iich possesses the property of gelatiniz- g when boiled and cooled ; but it is a inciple entirely different from the ge- tine of animal bodies, although the me of jelly, common to both, some- nes leads to an erroneous idea on that bject. Animal jelly, or gelatine, is lie, whereas vegetable jelly is rather alogous to gum. Liebig places gelatine ry low indeed in the scale of usefulness. I says, "Gelatine, which by itself is teless, and when eaten, excites nau- possesses no nutritive value ; that, en when accompanied by the savoury stituents of flush, it is not capable of pporting the vital process, and when ded to the usual diet as a substitute plastic matter, does not increase, but the contrary, diminishes the nutritive Jue of the food, which it renders insuf- ient in quantity and inferior in qua- It is this substance which is most iquently employed in the manufacture the jellies supplied by the confec- ner; but those prepared at home from Ves' feet do possess some nutrition, d are the only sort that should be en to invalids. Isinglass is the purest riety of gelatine, and is prepared from ) sounds or swimming-bladders of cer- n fish, chiefly the sturgeon. From whiteness it is mostly used for mak- f blancmange and similar dishes. iJLLIES, Bottled, Ho-w to Mould. Uncork the bottle; place it in a sauce- a of hot water until the jelly is reduced a liquid state; taste it, to ascertain lether it is sufiicicntly flavoured, and lot, add a little wine. Pour tho jelly o moulds which have been soaked in iter; let it set, and tuni it out by Jelly-bag, how to make a placing the mould in hot water for a minute; then wipe the outside, put a dish on the top, and turn it over quickly. The jelly should then slip easily away from the mould, and bo quite firm. It may bo garnished as taste dictates. JELLY, Isinglass, or Gelatine. (Substitutes for Calf's Feet.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of isinglass or gela- tine,' 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Put tho isinglass or gelatine int,o a sauce an with the above proportion of cold wat r; bring it quickly to boil, and let it boil very fast, until the liquor is reduced one- half. Carel'ully remove the scum as it rises, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and it will be ready for use. If not re- quired very clear, it may be merely strained through a fine sieve, instead of being run through a bag. Rather more than 5 oz. of isinglass is about tho proper quantity to use for a quart of strong calf s-fect stock, and rather moro than 2 07. for the same quantity of fruit juice. As isinglass varies so much in quality and strength, it is difficult to give the exact proportions. The larger the mould, the stifibr should be the jelly ; and where there is no ice, more isiugla&s must be used than if the mixture were frozen. This forms a stock lor all kinds of jellies, which may be flavoured m many ways. Time.—\h hour. Sufficient, with wine, syrup, fruit, &c., to fill two moderate- sized moulds. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Tho above, when boiled, should bo perfectly clear, and may be mixed warm with wine, flavom-ings, fruits, &c., and then run through tho bag. JELLY-BAG, How to make a. The very stout flannel called double- mill, used for iron- ing-blankets, is the best material for a jelly-bag: those oi home manul'acture are the only ones to be relied on for thoroughly clear- ing the jelly. Care should bo taken that the seam of the bag be stitched twice, to secure it against unequal filtration. Tho iELix-BAO. most convenient mode of using the bagTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 166 Jelly, Mouliiod with fresh Fruit is to tie it upon a hoop the exiict size of the outside of its nio\iih ; ami, to do this, scrings should be sewn round it at equiil distances. The jelly-bag may, of course, bo niiide any size; but one of twelve or foiu'teen inches deep, and seven or eitrht acniss the mouth, will be sufficient for ordin!\ry use. Tlie form of a jelly-bag is the fool's-cap. JELLY Moulded with fresh Fruit, or Macedoine de Fruits. Infjo-edients.—Rather more than lA pint of jelly, a few nice strawberries, or red or white currants, or raspberries, or any Afresh fruit that may be in season. Mode. —Have ready the above proportion of jelly, which must be very clear and rather sweet, the raw fruit requiring an additioual quantity of sugar. Select ripe, nice-looking fruit; pick off the stalks, unless currants are used, when they are laid in the jelly as they come from the tree. Begin by putting a little jelly at the bottom of the mould, which must harden; then an-ange the fruit JEtl/T MOULDED WITH CHERRIES. round the sides of the mould, recollect- ing that ti will be reversed when turned out; then pour in some more jelly to make the fruit adhere, and, when that layer is set, put another row of fruit and jelly until the mould is full. If conve- nient, put it in ice until required for table, then wring a cloth in boiling water, wrap it round the mould for a minute, and turn the jelly carefully out. Peaches, apricots, plums, apples, &c., are better for being boiled in a little clear syrup before they are laid in the jelly; Btrawherries, raspberries, grapes, cher- ries, and curranis are [>ut in raw. In ■winter, when iresh fruits are lot ob- tainable, a very pretty jelly may be made with preserved fruits or brandy cherries: these, in a bright and clear jelly, have a very pretty effect; of course, unless the jelly "^o verij clear, the beauty of the dis'i will be spoileil. It may bo garnished with the same fniit as ig laid in the jelly ; for instance, an open jelly with strawberries might have, piled Jelly of two Colours few of the same frn , or a little whiiijie - fin.' in the centre, a prettily arrans-ei cream might be substituted fir the fnii Time.—One layer of jelly should remain houi s in a very cool place, before auothc layer is added. Average cost, 2s. '> SulJicient, with fruit, to fill a qn: \ mould. Seasonable, with fresh fruit, fr.i ' Jime to October; with dried, at an time. JELLY, ORANGE, Moulded wit' slices of Orange. Ingredients.—1.\ pint of orange jellj \ 4 oranges, h pint of clarified syru{ Mode.—Boil ^ lb. of loaf sugar with pint of water until there is no scum lei (which must be carefully removed as fa.' as it rises), and carefully peel tbi oranges; divide them into thin sliceM^"' without breaking the thin skin, and pr these pieces of orange into the syruf where let them remain for about 5 ni nutcs ; then take them out, and use th synip for the jelly. When the orange are well drained, and the jelly is ncarl cold, pour a little of the latter into th bottom of the mould ; then lay in a fei pieces of orange ; over these pour a littl jelly, and when this is set, place anotbe layer of oranges, proceeding iu this mar ner until the mould is full. Put it i ice, or in a cool place, and, before turn ing it out, wrap a cloth round the moul for a minute or two, which has bee wrung out in boiling water. Time.— minutes to simmer the oranges. Averag cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient, with the slices o orange, to fill a quart mould. Seasonall from November to May, JELLY of Two Colours. Ingredients.—1^ pint of calf's-fee jellyj a few drops'of prepared cochine.il Mode.—Make 1.^ pint of calf's-feet jell" or, if wished m'ore economical, of c'" fied syrup and gelatine, flavoui-ing : Hi ie.il J JXLLT OF TWO COIOUBI. any way that may be preferred. Colon: one-half of the jelljr with a few di-ops o*^Tm DICtiOiTART OF COOltERt. ;elly, Open, with, whipped Cream pared cochineal, and the other h ilf e as pale as possible. Have ready )iild well wetted in every part; pour small quantity of the red jelly, and tliid set; when quite firm, pour on it same quantity of the pale jelly, and this set; then proceed in this manner the mould is full, always taking to let one jelly set before the other cured in, or the colours would run into the other. When turned out, jelly should have a striped appear- I, For variety, half the mould may filled at once with one of the jellies, when firm, filled up with the other: also, has a very pretty eSect, and more expeditiously prepared than n the jelly is poured in small quan- s into the mould. Blancmange and jelly, or blancmange and raspberry m, moulded in the above manner, very well. The layers of blanc- ge and jelly should be about an inch opth, and each layer should be per- ly hardened before another is added, a mould of blancmange and half a I of jelly are frequently served in same manner. A few pretty dishes be made, in this way, of jellies or omanges left from the preceding by melting ihcm separately in a jug :ed in a savicepan of boiling water, then moulding them by the foregoing etions. Tivie.— ^^ hour to make the Avera.r/e cost, with calf's-feet jelly, with gelatine and syrup, more eco- ical. iivfficient to till 1^-pint mould. onahlf. at any time. ute. — In making the jelly, use for uring a very pale sherry, or the co- will be too dark to contrast nicely the red jelly. jliY", Open, with whipped 3ream (a very pretty dish). gredients.—\^ pint of jelly, i pint ream, 1 glass of sherry, sugar to Aloae.—Make the above propor- of calt's-foet or isinglass jelly, .iring and flavouring it in any way m.ay be perferred ; soak a mould, in the centre, for about ^ hour in watov ; fill it with the jelly, and let Toain in a cooi place until perfectly then turn it out on a dish ; fill the ■e with whipped cream, flavoured sherry and sweetened with pounded r; pile this cream high in the cen- and serve. The jelly should be Jelly, to make the Stock for made of rather a dark colour, to contrast nicely with the cream. Time.—i hour. OPEIT JELLY WITH WHIPPED CBEAU. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill l|-pint mould. Seasonable at any time. JELLY, Savoury, for Meat Pies. J Ingredients.—3 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 calf s-foot, 3 lbs. of knuckle of veal, poul- try trimmings (if for game pies, any game trimmings), 2 onions stuck with cloves, 2 carrots, 4 shalots, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 bay-leaves ; when liked, 2 blades of mace and a little spice ; 2 slices of lean ham; rather mure than 2 quarts of w.iter. Mode-—Cut up the meat and put it into a stewpan with all the ingredients except the water ; set it over a slow fire to drawdown, and, when the gravy ceases to flow from the meat, pour in the water. Let it boil up, then carefully take away all scum from the top. C-'uver the stovv]ian closely, and let the stock simmer very gently for 4 hours: if rapidly boiled, the jelly will not be clear. When done, strain it through a fine sieve or flannel bag ; and when cold, the jelly should be quite transparent. If this is not the case, clarity it with the whites of eggs. Ti^ne.—4 hours. Ave- rage cost, for this quantity, 5*. JELLY, to make the Stock for, and to Clarify it. Ingredients. —2 calf's feet, 6 pints of water. AJode.—The stock for jellies should always be made the day before it isrei^uired for use, as the liquor has time to cool, and the fat can bo so much more easily and effectually removed when thoroughly sot. Procure 2 nice calf's feet; scald them, to take off the hair; slit them in two, remove the fat from between the claws, and wash the Ibot well in warm water ; ]ait them into a stewpan, wiih the above propcrti in of cold water, bring it gradually to boilTHE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 1G8 Jelly, to make the Stack for and remove every particle of scum as it rises. When it is well skimmed, boil it very gcnily for C or 7 hours, or until the liquor is reduced rather more than half; JBLLT-MOULD. then strain it through a sieve into a basin, and put it in a cool place to set. As the liquor is strained, measure it, to ascertain the proportion for the jelly, allowing something for the sediment and fat at the top. To clarify it, carefully remove all the fat from the top, pour over a little warm water, to wash away any that may remain, and wipe the jelly with a clean cloth ; remove the jelly from the sediment, put it into a saucepan, and, supposing the quantity to be a quart, add to it 6oz. of loaf sugar, the shells and well-whisked whites ol 5 eggs, and stir these ingredients together cold ; set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to xcarni. Let it boil about 10 minutes after it rises to a head, then throw in a teacupful of cold water ; let it boil 5 minutes longer, then take the saucepan off, cover it closely, and let it remain h hour near the fire. Dip the jelly-bag into hot water, wring it out quite dry, and fasten it on to a stand or the back of a chair, which must be placed near the fire, to prevent the jelly from setting before it has run through the bag. Place a basin underneath to receive the jelly ; then pour it into the bag, and should it not be clear the first time, run it through the bag again. This stock is the S,')undation of all really good jellies, ■which may bo varied in innumerable •ways, by colouring and flavouring with liqueurs, and by moulding it with fresh and preserved fruits. To insure the jelly being firm when turned out, h oz. of isin- glass clarified might bo ad'ded to the above pro|)ortion of stock. Substitutes for calf s feet are now O-equently used in making jellies, which lessen the expense ftnd trouble in preparing this favourite June-Bills of For© dish, isinglass and gelatine being two ol the principal materials employed ; bul although they may look as nicely as jclliet made from good stock, they are never 6< delicate, having very often an unpleasaut flavour, somewhat resembling glue, pur ticularly when made with gelatine. Tiriie —About 6 hours to boil the feet for thi stock ; to clarify it,—^ hour to boil, ; hour to stand in the saucepan covered Average cost.—Calfs feet may be pur chased for 6d. each when veal is in ful season, but more expensive when it it scarce. Sufficient.—'4 calf's feet shoulc make 1 quart of stock. Seasonable fron March to October, but may be bad al. the year. JOHN DORY. Ingredients.—^ lb. of salt to each ga! Ion of water. Mode.—This fish, whicl is esteemed by most people a great deliii cacy, is dressed in the same way as « turbot, which it resembles in firmness* but not in richness. Cleanse it thorouf>hh and cut off the fins ; lay it in a tish kettle, cover with cold water, and ad( salt in the above proportion. Bring i i gradually to a boil, and simmer gentlj for \ hour, or rather longer, should this fish be very largo. Serve on a hot kin, and garnish with cut lemon parsley. Lobster, anchovy, or s' sauce, and plain melted butter, shoi be sent to table with it. Time.—A' the water boils, \ to h hour, accor to size. Average cost, Ss. to bs. Sea able all the year, but best from Sep ber to January. J iVo^e.—Small John Dory are very go«* baked. JUNE-BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. B s- o Q ABparflgiis Sonp, removed by Crimped Salmon. Tase of Flowers. Torniicelli Sotip, r<"moved by AVhitebait. o CO I169 TUB DICTIONARY OF COOKEfiY. June-Bills of Fare First Course.—Grecn-pca soup ; rico oup ; salmon and lobster sauco ; trout la Gen^vgso ; whitebait. Entrees.— i.ub cutlets and cucumbers ; fricasseed -ken ; stowed veal and peas ; lobster oles. Second Course.—lioast quarter lamb and spinach ; filet do bceuf k la irdinibrc; boiled fowls; braised shoulder f lamb ; tongue ; vegetables. Third >'.r«e.—Goslings ; ducklings; Nessol- 10 pudding; Charlotte la Parisionno; jseberry tartlets; strawberry cream \ June-Bills of Fare raspberry-and-currant tart; custards ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Julienne soup ; salmon trout and parsley-and-butter ; red mul- let. Entrees.—Stewed breast of veal and peas ; mutton cutlets h, la Maintenon. Second Course. — Roast fillet of vcal; boiled leg of lamb, garnished with young carrots ; boiled bacon-cheek ; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast ducks ; leveret; gooseberry tart ; strawberry cream ; strawberry tartlets ; meringues ; cabinet pudding; iced pudding; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; trout la Gen6vdse ; salmon cutlets Entrees, —Lamb cutlets and peas; fricasseed chicken. Second Course.—Roast ribs of beef; half calf's head, tongue, and brains ; boiled ham ; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast ducks; comp6te of goose- berries ; strawberry jelly ; pastry ; iced pudding ; cauliliower with cream sauco ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Spring soup ; boiled salmon and lobster sauce. Entrees.— Veal cutlets and endive ; ragotlt of duck and green peas. Second Course.—Roast loin of veal; boiled leg of lamb and white sauce ; tongue, garnished ; vege- tables. Third Course. — Strawberry cream ; gooseberry tartlets ; almond pudding ; lobster salad; dessert. First Course.—Calf's head soup ; mac- kerel h, la maltre d'hOtel; whitebait. Entrees.—Chicken cutlets ; curried lob- ster. Second Course.—Fore-quarter of lamb and salad ; stewed beef k la Jar- diniere ; vegetables. Third Course.— Goslings; green-currant tart; custards, in glasses ; strawberry blancmange ; 80ufil(5 of rice; dessert. First Course.—Green-pea soup ; baked soles aux fines herbes ; stewed trout. Entrees.—Calf s liver and bacon; rissoles. Second Course.—Roast saddle -of lamb and salad ; calf's head h. la tortue; vege- tables. Third Course.—Roast ducks; Tol-au-vent of strawberries and cream; Entrees, Lamb Cutlets and o Peas. o* o'3 (a Vase of >^ p Flowers. pa oi-s ^ -A •c ^ o' ca Larded Sweetbreads. S H Second Course. Saddle of Lamb. ToDgue. do a tr P O —■CO dj SO) Vase of O g 1 Flowers. -a * ° -S n Ham. Soiled Calf's Head. Third Coxirse, JjJ Leveret, p . removed by 3 cr? Iced Pudding. CO Wine Jelly. g 3' Vase of Is o-r- Flowers. -g-^^ ~ - CO Blancmange. ""M Q 26 g • ^ GoslinM, w* ' removed by % to Fondues, in cases. Dessert and Ices, dinner for 12 persons.170 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. June, Plain Family Dinners for strawberry tartlets ; lemon blancmange; baked gooseberry puilding ; dessert. First Course.—Spinach soup ; soles k la crSine ; red mullet. Entrees.—Roiist fillet of veal ; biaiseil liatii and spinar-h. Svniial Ciiurse.—Boiled tbwls and white sauce ; veKet:diies. Tliinl Cimrxe. — l>e- veri-t; 8trawl>frry jedy ; Swiss cream; cheesecakes ; iced pudding ; dessert. JUNE, Plain Family Dinners for. Suiuldi).—1. Salnion ti imt and parsley- and-hiitter, new pitntnes. 2. Roast fiilot of veal, boiled bacon-cheek and spinach, vegetables. 3. Gooseberry tai-t, custard. Monday.—1. Light gravy soup. 2. Small meat fiie, minced veal, garnished with rolled bacon, spinach, and potatoes. 3. K ispberry-and-cnrraut tart. Tutsdai/. — 1. Baked mackerel, po- tatoes. 2. Boiled leg of lamh, garnished ■with yonng cai n^ts. 3. Lemon jiudding. l!'fct//te.v(/ay.—1. Vetietable soup. 2, Calf's liver and bacon, peas, hashed lamb from remains of cold joint. 3. Baked gooseberry pudding. TlMvsdai/.—1. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, peas, potatoes. 2. Stewed rhubarb and boiled rice. Fr\dai/. — \. Cold beef and salad, lamb cutlets and peas. 2. Boiled gooseberry pudding and baked custard pudding. Saturday. —\. Runip-steak pudding, broiled beef-bones and cucumber, vege- tables. 2. Bread pudding. Sunday.—1. Roast fore-quarter of lamb, mint sauce, peas, and new potatoes. 2. Gooseberry pudding, strawberry tart- lets. Fondue. Monday.—1. Cold lamb and salad, stewed neck of veal and peas, young carrots, and new potatoes. 2. Almond pudding. Tuesday. — 1. Green-pea soup. 2. Boast ducks stuffed, gravy, peas, and new potatoes. 3. Baked ratafia jiudding. Wednesday.— \. Roast leg of mutton, Bunitner cabiiage, potatoes. 2. Goose- berry and rico pudding. 7'/iursdai/. — l. Fried soles, melted but- ter, potatoes. 2. Sweetbrea<ls, hashed njuitoi), vegetables. 3. Bread-and-butter puH bug. Friilay.—1. Asparagus soup. 2. Boiled beef, yoinig carrots, and new potatoes, •uet dumplings. 8. College puddings. July—Bills of Fare Saturday.—I. Cold boiled beef ana salad, lamb cutlets, and green peas, Boiled gooseberry pudding and plaij cream. JUNE, Things in Season. Fisk.—Carp, crayfish, be-rings, sters, inackercd, jnullet, pike, pra salmon, sides, tench, trout, turlvit. Mf.a.t.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, hvi venison. ^ Foal try.—Chickens, ducklings, ffiwk green geese, levuruts, pluvcrs, pulietf rabbits, turkey poults, wheateai-s. Veyelalde.s. — Articliokcs, a.s]iar:igii| beans, cabbaxes, carrots, cucuinlwi' lettuces, onions, parsnips, peas, jtoia radislies, small salads, sea-kale, spinach,^ various Lerl)S. Fruil.—Apricots, cherries, curranl gooseberries, melons, nectaiines, pL-ach( pears, pineapples, raspberries, rhubi strawberries. JULY—BILLS OF FAKE. Dinner for 18 persons. First Coiirt-e. Green-Pea Soup, removed by Salmon and dressed Cucumber. c a C Vase of ■c o 5. Flowers. !s c K Soup & la Keine, removed by Mackerel a la Maltre d'HoteL EntrSes. a M Lamb Gullets and Peas. Vase of Floners. Chicken Patties. c -■ C c 15171 fUE BlCtlONART OP COOtCEl^Y. July-Bills of Fare Second Course. o o o o 0 Hauuoh of Yenison, Pigeon Pie. Vase of Flowera, Braised Ham. Saddle of Lamb. o o SI a ■E GD Third Coxirse. 13 o ►1 (D I Eoast Ducks, removed br TaniUa Souill6. O Raspberry Cream. n> ^ "Vase of ^ Flowers. p> 2- Strawberry Cream, Green Roose, removed by Iced Pudding, 09 03 EH Dessert and Ices. juier for 12 persons. First Course.—Soup h, la Jardiniere ; cken soup ; crimped salmon ari'l pars- • and-butter ; trout aux fines herbes. cases. Entries.—Tendrous de veau 1 peas; lamb cutlets and cucumbers. •xmd Course.—Loin of veal k la Be- imel ; roast fore-quarler of lamb ; ad ; braised ham, garnished with »adbeans; vegetables. Third Course.— ast du<;ks ; turkey poult; stewed peas Francaise ; lobster salad ; cherry ; raspb'jrry-anfl-currant t.irt ; cus- ■ds, in glasses ; lemon creams ; Nessel- "e pudding; meirrow pudding. Dessert ' ices. ler for 8 persons. Tirst Course.—Green-pea soup; salmon lobster sauce; crimped perch and eh sauce. Entrees.—btewed veal and lamb cutiets and cucumbers. ond Course. — Haunch of venison ; lied fowls it la li^chamel j braised July, Plain Family Dinners for ham ; vegetables. Third Coztrsc—Roast ducks ; peas k la Fr.incaise ; lobster salad ; str-uwberry cream ; bl.iucman>;e ; clierry tart; cijeesecakes; iced pudding. Dessert aud ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Coitrse.—Soup k la Jardiniere; salmon trout and parsley-and-buttcr ; fillets of mackerel k la maltre d'hfitel. Entrees.—hobslQV c»U.lets ; beef palates, k la Icalienne. Second Course.—Roast larab ; boiled capon and white sauce; boiled tongue, garnished witli small vege- table marrows ; bacon and beans. Third Course.—Goslings ; whipped strawberi-y cream ; raspberry-and-currant tart; me- ringui?s ; chei ry tartlets j iced pudding. Deasert and ices. First Course.—Julienne soup ; crimped salmon and caper sauce ; whitebHit. En- trees.—Croquettes k la Reine ; curried lob- ster. Second Co2cr.'<e.- Roast laixjb; riunp of beef k la Jardinifero. Thiul Course.— Larded turkey poult; raspberry cream ; cherry tart ; custards, in glasses; Gk- teaux k la Geii6v6se; Nesselrode puddiiig. Dessert. JULY, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Salmon trout and parsley- and-butter. 2. Roast fillet of veal, boiled bacon-cheek, peas, potatoes. 3. Rasp- berry-and-curraut tai't, baked custard pudding. Monday. — 1. Green-pea soup. 2. Roast fowls garnished with watercresses; gravy, bread sauce ; cold veal and salad. 3. Cherry tart. Tuesday.—1. John dory and lobster sauce. 2. Curried fowl with remains of cold fowls, dish of rice, veal rolls with remains of cold fillet. 3. Strawberry cream. Wednesday.—1. Roast leg of mutton, vegetable marrow and potatoes, melted butter. 2. Black-currant pudding. Thursday.—1. Fried soles, anchovy sauce, 2. Mutton cutlets and tomato sauce, hashed mutton, peas, potatoes. 3. Lemon dumplings. Friday.—1, Boiled brisket of beef, carrots, turnips, suet dumplings, peas, potatoes. 2. B.tked semolina pudding. Satuiday.—1. Cold beef and salad, lamb cutlets and peas. 2, Rolled jam pudding.172 THE DICTIONABY OF COOKERY. July, Things iu Season Sunday.—1. Julionno soup. 2. Roast lamb, hull" calf's head, tonguo and brains, boiled bam, peas and potatoes. 3. Cherry tart, custards. Mondiaj.—1. Hashed calf's head, cold lamb and salad. 2. Vegetablo marrow and white sauce, instead of pudding. Tuesday.—1. Stewed veal, with peas, young carrots, and potatoes. Small meat pio. 2. Raspberry-and-currant pudding. Wednesday.—1. Roast ducks stufTcd, gravy, peas, and potatoes ; the remains of stewed veal rechaufTd 2. Macaroni Eerved as a sweet pudding. Thursday.—1. Slices of salmon and caper sauce. 2. Boiled knuckle of veal, parsley-and-butter, vegetable marrow and potatoes. 3. Black-currant pudding. Friday.—1. Roast shoulder of mutton, onion sauce, peas and potatoes. 2. Cherry tart, baked custard pudding. Saiia'day.—1. Minced mutton, rump- steak-and-kidney pudding. 2. Baked lemon pudding. JULY, Things in Season. Fish.—Carp, crayfish, dory, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, pike, plaice, prawns, salmon, shrimps, soles, sturgeon, tench, thornback. Heat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry.—Chicke-DS, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, plovers, pullets, rabbits, turkey poults, wheateai-s, wild ducks (called flappers). Vegetables. — Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, celery, cresses, endive, lettuces, mush- rooms, onions, peas, I'adishes, small salading, sea-kale, sprouts, turnips, vege- table marrow,—various herbs. Fruit.—Apricots, cherries, currants, figs, gooseberries, melons, nectarines, pears, pineapples, plums, raspberries, strawberries, walnuts in high season, for pickling. JUIilENNE, Soup h, la. Ingredients.—.J pint of carrots, .J pint of turnips, pint of onions, 2 or 3 leeks, 1 head of celery, 1 lettuce, a little sorrel •and chervil, if liked, 2 oz. of butter, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Qwt the vege- tables into strips of about l.j inch long, and bo particular they are all the same size, or som,o will bo hard whilst the Others will bejione to a pulp. Cut the Kidneys, Broiled lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into larijor pieces; fry the car- rots in the butter, and pour the stock boiling to them. When this is done, add all the other vegetables and herbs, and stew gently for at least an hour. Skim off all the fat, pour the soup over thin slices of bread, cut round about the size of a shilling, and serve. Time. - U hour. "^"^ °^ vegetablb. Average cost.—Is. Zd. per quart. Season^ able all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—In summer, green peas, aspa- rngus-tops, French beans, &c., can be added. When the vegetables are very strong, instead of frying them in butter at first, they should be blanched, and afterwards simmered in the stock. KALE BROSE (a Scotch Hecipe). Ingredients.—Half an ox-head or cow- heel, a teacupful of toasted oatmeal, salt to taste, 2 handfuls of greens, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Make a broth of the ox-head or cow-heel, and boil it till oil , floats on the top of the liquor, then boil ' the greens, shred, in it. Put the oat- meal, with a little salt, into a basin, and mix with it quickly a teacupful of the fat broth : it should not run into one doughy mass, but form knots. Stir it into the whole, give one boil, and serve very hot. Time.—4 hours. A verage cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. SvffirierA for 10 persons. KEGEREE. Ingredients.—Any cold fish, 1 teacup- ful of boiled rice, 1 oz. of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of mustard, 2 soft-boiled c.!rt,'s, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—I'ick the fish carefully from the bones, mix with the other ingredients, and serve J very hot. The quantities may bo varied ■ L according to the amount of fish r '■■ Time.—i hour after the rice is b Average cost, 5d. exclusive of the fish. ^ KIDNEYS, Broiled (a Breakfast or • j .^. Supper Dish). ryj Ingredients.—Sheep kidneys, pcj "•cr and salt to taste. Modt.—Asecv^-^a t lor 8 II173 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Kidneys, Fried that the kidneys are fresh, and cut them open, very evenly, lengthwise, down to the root, for should one half bo thicker than the other, on© would be underdone KIDNEYS. whilst the other would be dried, but do Qot separate them; skin them, and pass 1 skewer under the white part of each balf to keep them flat, and broil over a lice clear fire, placing the inside down- wards ; turn them when done enough on one side, and cook them on the other. Elemove the skewers, place the kidneys an a very hot dish, season with pepper md salt, and put a tiny piece of butter n the middle of each; sei-ve very hot ind quickly, and send very hot plates to ^ble. Time.—6 to 8 minutes. Average :ost, Ihd. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for 3ach person. Seasonable at any time. j\'o(e.—A prettier dish than the above Tiay be made by serving the kidneys each jn a piece of buttered toast cut in any fanciful shape. In this case a little oraon-juice will be found an improve- aient. KIDTTEYS, Fried. Ingredients.—Kidneys, butter, pepper, md salt to taste. Mode. —Cut the kidneys jpen without quite dividing them, re- move the skin, and put a small piece of 1 itter in the frying-pan. When the ■ ter is melted, lay in the kidneys the t side downwards, and fry them for 7 8 minutes, turning them when they . 0 half done. Serve on a piece of dry toast, season with pepper and salt, and t a small piece of butter in each tiiey; pour the gravy from the pan r them, and servo very hot. Time.— r 8 minutes. Average cost, l^d. each. iicient.—Allow 1 kidney to each per- il. Seasonable at any time. KIDNEY OMELET (a favourite French. Dish). Ingredients.—6 eggs, 1 saltspoonful of It, i saltspoonful of pepper, 2 sheep's iiieys, or 2 tablespoonfuls of minced ;al kidney, 6 oz. of butter. Mode.— jkin the kidneys, cut them into small lice, and toss tliein in a frying-pan, in Lamb 1 oz. of butter, over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes. Mx the ingredients for tho omelet, and when the eggs are well whisked, stir in the pieces of kidney. Make the butter hot in the frying-pan, OMBLET PAir. and when it bubbles, pour in the omelet, and fry it over a gcintle fire from 4 to 6 minutes. When the eggs are set, fold the edges over, so that the omelet as- sumes an oval form, and be careful that it is not too much done: to brown the top, hold the pan before the fire for a minute or two, or use a salamander until the desired colour is obtained, but never tura an omelet in the pan. Slip it care- fully on to a very hot dish, or, what is a much safer method, put a dish on the omelet, and turn the pan quickly over. It should be served the instant it comes from the fire. Time.—4 to 6 minutes. Averaff C cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. KIDNEYS, Stewed. Ingredients.—About 8 kidneys, a large dessertspoonful of chopped herbs, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a little gravy, juice of half a lemon, a tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce and mush- room ketchup, cayenne, and salt to taste. Mode.—Strew the herbs, with cayenne and salt, over the kidneys, melt the butter in the frying-pan, put in the kidneys, and brown them nicely all round; when nearly done, stir in the flour, and shake them well; now add the gravy and sau?o, and stew them for a few minutes, then turn them out into a dish garnished with fried sippets, Time.—\Q or 12 minutes. Seasonable at any time. LAMB. Tho most delicious sorts of lamb are those of tho South-Down breed, known by their black feet; and of these, those which have been exclusively suckled on the milk of the parent ewe, are consi- dered tho finest. Next to these in esti- mation are those fed on tho milk of several damsj and last of all, thougk17t THE nrCTTONAIlY OF COOKERY. Lamb, Broast of tlie fivftost, tlie f^rass-l'eil. lamb: tliis, hdwovov, ini|.lioR an a^o much greater thnn cither of tlie others. Lamb, in the early part of ibe season, however roared, is in London, and indeed generally. Bold in quarters, divided with eleven ribs to the foro- quarter; but, as the season ad- vances, these are subdivided into two, and the hind- quarter in tliesame manner; the first consisting of the shoulder, and the neck and breast; the latter, of the leg and the loin.— As lamb, from the juicy nature of its flesh, is especially liable to spoil in unfavourable wea- ther, it should be frequently wiped, so as to remove any moisture that may form on it. In the Pur- chasing OF Lamb FOB THE Table, there are certain signs by which the experienced judgment is able to form an accurate opinion whether the animal has been lately slaughtered, and ■whether the joints possess that condition of fibre indicative of good and whole- Bomo meat. The first of these doubts may be solved satisfactorily by the bright and dilated appearance of the eye ; the auality of the fore-quarter can always be guaranteed by the blue or healthy rud- diness of the jugular, or vein of the neck ; vvhile the rigidity of the knuckle, and the firm, compact feel of the kidney, will answer in an equally positive manner for the integrity of the hind-quarter. Mode of cutting up a Side of Lamb in London.—1. Ribs; 2. Breast; 3. Shoulder; 4. Loin; 6. Leg; 1, 2, 3. Fore Quarter. LAMB, Breast of, and Green Peas. Inf/redlenls.—\ breast of lamb, a few slice's of bacon, h pint of stock, 1 lemon, 1 ouion, 1 bunch of Eavoury herbs, green- BIDB 01' I-AMB, Lamb, Pore-qucrter of EOiis. Made.—Remove tlie skin from a • ri.'ast of l.iinb, put it into a Kauce)<an of boiling water, and let it simmer for 5 • minutes. Take it out and lay it in cold water. Line the bottom of a stewpaa with a few thin slices of bacon ; lay the ■■ lamb on these ; peel the lemon, cut it into slices, and put these on the nioai^ to keep it white and make it tender;; cover with 1 or 2 more slices of bacon; : add the stock, onion, and herbs, and set; it on a slow fire to simmer very gently ■ until tender. Have ready some green . peas, put these on a dish, and place the i lamb on the top of them. The appear- ance of this dish may be much improved by glazing the lamb, and spinach may be substituted for the peas when variety is desired. Time.—1A hour. Average cost, lOd. per lb. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable.—Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Stewed Breast o£ Ingredients.—1 breast of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, sufficient stock to cover it, 1 class of slierry, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Skin the lamb, cut it into jiieces, and season them with pepper and salt; lay these in a stewpan, pour in sufficient stock or gravy to cover them, and stew very gently until tender, which will be in about 1.^ hour. Just before serving, thicken tfie sauce with a little butter and flour; add the sherry, give one boil, and pour it over the meat. Green peas, or stewed mushrooms, may be strewed over the meat, and will be found a very great improvement. Time. — \h hour. Average cost, \Qd. per lb. Siijjicient for 8 persons. Seasonable.^ Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. Lamb, to Carte.—Leg, loin, saddle shoulder, are carved as mutton. LAMB, Fore-quarter of, to Carve, We always think that a good and prac- tised carver delights in the manipulation of this joint, for there is a little field for his judgment and dexterity which does not always occur. The separation of the B-houlder from the breast is the fii-st point to be attended to ; this is done by passmg the knife rovmd the dotted line, as shown by the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, so as to cut through the skin, and then, by raising with a little force the shoulder, into which the fork should be firmlyTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 175 Lamb Cutlets fixed, it will come away with just a little more exercise of the knife. In dividing the shoulder and breast, the carver should take care not to cut away too much oi the meat from the latter, as SOBE-QTJAETBB OF LAMB. that -would rather spoil its appearance when the shoulder is removed. The breast and shoulder being separated, it is usual to lay a small piece of butter, and sprinkle a little cayenne, lemon- juice, and salt between them ; and when this is melted and incorporated with the meat and gravy, the shoulder may, as more convenient, be removed into .another dish. The next operation is to separate the ribs from the brisket, by cutting through the meat on the lino 6 to 6. The joint is then ready to be served to the guests ; the ribs being carved in the direction of the lines from 9 to 10, and the brisket from 7 to 8. The carver should ask those at the table what parts they prefer—ribs, biisket, or a piece of the shoulder. LAMB CUTLETS. Ingredients.—Loin of lamb, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Trim off the flap from a fine loin of lamb, and cut it into cutlets about ^ inch in thickness. Have ready a bright clear fire ; lay the cutlets on a gridiron, and broil them of a nice paje brown, turning them when required. Jeason them with pepper and salt; serve very hot and quickly, and garnish with crisped parsley, or place them on mashed potatoes. Asparagus, spinach, or peas iro the favourite accompaniments to lamb chops. Time. — About 8 or 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. per lb. Suf- tcienl.—Allow 2 cutlets to each person. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Cutlets and Spinach, (an Entree). Ingredients.—8 cutlets, egg and bread orumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little pjftrified butter, i/oc^e.—Cut the cutlets Lamb, Koast Fore-quarter of from a neck of lamb, and shape them by cutting off the thick part of the chine- bone. Trim off most of the fat and all the skin, and scrape the top part of the bones quite clean. Brush the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and season with pepper and salt. Kow dip them into claiiHed butter, sprinkle over a few more bread crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning them when required. Ijay them before the fire to drain, and arrange them on a dish with spinach in the centre, which should be previously well boiled, drained, chopped, and seasoned. Time.—About 7 or 8 minutes. Average cost, \0d. per lb. Snjjii ient for 4 persi)ns. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. Note. — Peas, aspaiagus, or French beans, may be substituted for the spinach; or lamb cutlets may be served with stewed cucumbers, Soubise sauce, &c., &o. LAMB, Roast Fore-quarter of. Ingredients. — Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—To obtain the flavour of lamb in perfection, it should not be long kept; time to cool is all that it requires; and though the meat may be somewhat thready, the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb that has been killed 2 or 3 days. Make up rOEE-QUAETEB OF LAMB. the fire in good time, that it may be clear and brisk when the joint is put down. Place it at a sufficient distance to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till the moment of serving. Lamb should be very thoroxigJdy done without being dried up, and not the slightest appearance of red gravy should be visible, as in roast mutton: this rule is applicable to all young white meats. Serve with a little gr.avy made in the dripping-pan, the same as for other roasts, and send to table with it a tureen of mint sauce, and a fresh salad. A cut lemon, a small piece of fresh but- ter, and a little cayenne, should also be placed on the table, so that when theTHE DICTIOT^AllT OF COOKERY. 176 Lamb's Fry carver soparntes tho shoulder from tbo ribs, tlioy may bo ready for his use ; if, however, ho should uot bo very expert, we would recommend that tho cook should divide these joints nicely before coming to table. time.—Fore-quarter of lamb weighing 10 lbs., 1^ to 2 hours. Average cost, lOcZ. to Is. per lb. Suffi- cient for 7 or 8 jjorsons. Seasonahle.— Graa? lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB'S FRY Ingredients.—1 lb. of lamb's fry, 3 pints of water, egg and bread crumbs, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Boil tho fry for ^ hour ia the above proportion of water, take it out and dry it in a cloth; grate some bread down finely, mix with it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a high seasoning of pepper and salt. Brush the fry lightly over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle over the bread crumbs, and fry for 5 minutes. Serve very hot on a napkin in a dish, and garnish with plenty of crisped pai-sley. Time.—\ hour to simmer the fry, 5 minutes to fry it. Average cost, lOd. per lb. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Hashed, and Broiled Blade- Bone. rOoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of a cold shoulder of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, about h pint of stock or gravy, 1 tablespoonful of shalot vine- gar, 3 or 4 pickled gherkins. Mode.— Take tho blade-bonc from the shoulder, and cut the meat into collops as neatly us possible. Season the bone with pejiper and salt, pour alittle oiled butter over it, and place it in the oven to warm through. Put the stock into a stewpan, add the ketchup and shalot vinegar, and lay in tho pieces of lamb. Let these heat gradually through, but do not allow them to boil. Tako the blade-bone out of the oven, and place it on a gridiron over a eharp firo to brown. Slice the gherkins, put them into tho hash, and dish it with the blade-bone in the centre. It may bo garnished with croutons or sippets of toasted bread. Ttmc—Altogether!. hour. Averarje cost, exclusive of tho meat, id. Seasonable.—Bousciamo, from Christmas to March ; grasa lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. Lamb, Braised Loin of LAMB, Boiled Leg of, & la B6clia— mel. Ingredients.—JjQ^ of lamb, B^chameU sauce.^ Mode. —Do not choose a very? large joint, but one weighing about 5 lbs.' Have ready a saucepan of boiling water,, into which plunge the lamb, and when ifei boils up again, draw it to the side of ilie< firo, and let tho water cool a little.! Then stew very gently for about \\ hour,? reckoning from the time that the wat«9i beirinsto simmer. Make some Bechamel,!, dish tho lamb, pour the sauce over it,' and garnish with tufts of boiled cauli- flower or carrots. When liked, melted butter may be substituted for the B6cha- mel: this is a more simple method, h\v. not nearly so nice. Send to table with it some of the sauce in a tureen, and boi cauliflowers or spinach, with whichew vegetable the dish is garnished. Time. 1;J hour after the water simmers. A rage cost, lOd. to Is. per lb. Siifficl for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fn Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Roast Leg of. Ingredients.—Lamb, a little salt. Moie> —Place the joint at a good distance from i the fire at first, and baste well the whold ■ time it is cooking. When nearly done, \, draw it nearer tho fire to acquire a nice brown colour. Sprinkle a little fine salt k !5S< LEG OF LAUU. over the meat, empty the dripping-pan, of its contents; pour in a little boiling f water, and strain this over the meat Serve with mint sauce and a fresh salad, and for vegetables send peas, spinach, <Mf cauliflowers to table with it. Time.-^^^ A leg of lamb weighing 5 lbs., 1,3 hour. Average cost, lOd. to Is. a pound. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Braised Loin of. Ingredients.—1 loin of lamb, a few slices of bacon, 1 bunch of green onions, 6 or G yoimg carrots, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of jioundcd mace, 1 jiiot of stock, salt to taste, i/oc/c.—Bone »THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 177 Lamb, Boast Saddle of iin of lamb, and line the bottom of stowpau just capablo of holding it, nth a few Ih'in slices of fat bacon ; add he remaining ingredients, cover tho leat with a few moro slices of bacon, LOIir OF LAMB. our in the stock, and simmer very gen tly )r 2 hours ; take it up, dry it, strain and jduco the gravy to a glaze, with which laze the meat, and serve it either on ;ewed peas, spinach, or stewed cucum- ers. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. easonable from Easter to Michaelmas. lAMB, Boast Saddle of. Ingredients. — Lamb ; a little salt. fode.—This joint is now very much in ogue, and is generally considered a nice BADDLE 07 IiAUB. le for a small party. Have ready a ear bi-isk fire ; put down tho joint at a ttle distance, to prevent the fat from !orching, and keep it well basted all SIBS OV LAMB. le time it is cooking. Serve with mint luco and a fresh salad, and send to table rith it either peas, cauliflowers, or spin- ch. Time.—A. small saddle, Ih hour ; a irge one, 2 hours. Average cost, IM. to 3. per lb. Svfficienl for 5 or G persons. kasonaOle from Easter to Michaelmas. Note.—Loin and ribs of lamb are oasted in tho same manner, and served rith tho same sauces as tho abovo. A loin rill take about 1^ hour; ribs, from 1 to ^ hour. Landrail, Boast LAMB, Boast Shoulder of. Ingredients. — Lamb ; a little salt» Mode.—Have ready a clear brisk fire, and put down the joint at a sufficient distance from it, that the fat may not burn. Keep constantly basting until done, and serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and send mint sauce to table with it. Peas, spinach, or cauliflowers are the usual vegetables served with lamb, and also a fresh salad. Time.—A shoulder of lamb rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, IQd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Shoulder of. Stuffed. Ingredients.—Shoulder of lamb, force- meat, trimmings of veal or beef, 2 onions, h head of celery, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 quart of stock. Mode.—Take the blade-bone out of a shoulder of lamb, fill up its place ■with forcemeat, and sew it up with coarse thread. Put it into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon under and over the lamb, and add the remaining ingre- dients. Stew very gently for rather more than 2 hours. Reduce tho gravy, with which glaze the meat, and serve with peas, stewed cucumbers, or sorrel sauce. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, \Qd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LATTDEAIL, Eoast, or Corn- Crake. Ingredients.—3 or 4 birds, butter, fried bread crumbs. 3Iode.—Pluck and draw the birds, wipe them inside and out with damp cloths, and truss them in the fol- lowing manner: Bring the head round LANDRAILS. under the wing, and the thighs close to the sides ; pass a skewer through them and the body, and keep the legs straight. Roast them before a clear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on fried bread crumbs, with a tureen of brown gravy. When liked, bread-sauce may also be sent to table with thom. Time.— 12 to 20 minutes. Average cost,—Soldona178 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Landrail, to Carve bought. Sufficient—AUow 4 for a dish. Seasonable Irom August 12th to tho middle of Soptombor. LANDRAIL, to Carve. Landrail, being trussed like Snipe, with tho exception of its being drawn, may be carved iu the same manner. LAED, to Melt. _ Mult the inner fat of the pig, by put- ting it in a stone jar, and placing tliis in a saucepan of boiling water, previously Stripping off the skin. Let it simmer gently over a bright fire, and, as it melts, pour it carefully from tlie sediment. Put it into small jars or bladders for use, and keep it in a cool place. The flead or inside fat of the pig, before it is melted, makes exceedingly light crust, and is particularly wholesome. It may be pre- served a length of time by salting it well, and occasionally changing the brine. When wanted for use, wash and wipe it, and it will answer for making into paste as well as fresh lard. Avei-age cost, lOd. per lb. LARDIWG-. Ingredients.—Bacon and larding-needlo. Mode.—Bacon for larding should be firm and fat, and ought to be cured without any saltpetre, as this reddens white meats. Lay it on a table, the BACON POB WARDING, AJTD LABDING-NEISDLB. rinds downwards; trim off any rusty part, and cut it into slices of an equal thickness. Placo the slices one on the top of another, and cut them evenly into narrow strips, so arranging it that every piece of bacon is of tho same size. Bacon for fricaudeaux, poultry, and game, should be about 2 inches in length, and rather more than one-eighth of an inch in width. If for lai-ding fillets of beef or loin of veal, tho pi« ces of bacon must be thicker. The following recipe of Soyer is, we think, very explicit; and any cook, by following the directions here given, may bo able to lard, if not well, sutiicioutly for general use;— Larks, Roast " Have the fricandeau trimmed; !ay 1 lengthwise, upon a clean napkin aero;- your band, forming a kind of bi idge wit your thumb at tho part where you ai about to commence ; then with tbe pon of tho larding-needle make three distini lines across, ^ inch apart; run th needle into the third line, at the farthc side of tho fricandeau, and bring it ot at the first, placing (-ne of the lanloons i it; draw the needle through, leaving oi \ inch of the bacon at each line ; pre ceed thus to the end of the row; th' niake another line, ^ inch distant, stii in another row of lardoons, brin^in. them out at the second line, leavinir tli ends of the bacon out all the same lengtfc make tho next row again at the sani distance, bringing tho ends out betwee: the lardoons of the first row, proceedinij in this manner until the whole sur&M is larded in chequered rows. Everyll thing else is larded in a similar way y and, in the case of poultry, hold 'Sa breast over a charcoal fire for one minute or dip it into boiling water, in order t. make the flesh firm." LARK PIE (an Entree). Ingredients.—A few thin slices of beel the same of bacon, 9 larks, flour; fo stuffing, 1 teacujiful of bread crumbs ^ teaspoonfvd of minced Icmon-pei teaspoonfxd of minced parsley, 1 salt and pepper to taste, 1 teasjjoonfi chopped shalot, h pint of weak s or water, puff-p.iste. Mode.—JIak stuffing of bread crumbs, minced le: peel, parsley, .and the yolk of an all of which should be well mixed t ther; roll the larks in flour, and them. Line the bottom of a pie- with a few slices of beef and ba over these place the larks, and se with salt, pepper, minced parsley, _ chopped shalot, in the above proportion' Pour in tho stock or water, cover witl crust, and bako for an hour in a mode- rate oven. During the time the |>io is baking, shake it 2 or 3 times, to thickening the gravy, and serve vt Tivie.—1 hour. Average cost, 1«. u.(. yd dozen. Sufficient for 5 or C persons Seasonable.—In full season in November LARKS, Roast. Ingredient.'!. — Larks, egg and crumbs, fresh butter. Mode,^THE DTCTTOXAEY OF COOKERY. 179 Leek Soup lis are by many persons esteenied a .it iloliuaoy. and may heeitber roasted hroiled. Pick, gut, and clean them ; en they are trussed, brush them over h the yolk of an egg ; sjirinkle with ad crumbs, and roast them befoi-e a ck tire ; baste them continually with ill butter, and keep sprinkling with bread cinmbs until the birds are well ered. Uish them on bread crumbs id in clarified butter, and garnish the 1 with slices of lemon. Broiled larks also very excellent: they should be ked over a clear fire, and vwuld take ut 10 minutes or ^ hour. Time.— our to roast; 10 minutes to broil. nonahle.—In full season in November, k'ote. — Larks may also be plainly sted, without covering them with egg bread crumbs; they should be dished fried crumbs. EK SOUP. ngredients.—A sheep's head, 3 quarts ivater, 12 leeks cut small, pepper and . to taste, oatmeal to thicken. Mode. pare the head, either by skinning or ming the skin very nicely ; split it in ; take out the brains, and put it into ing water; add the leeks and season- and simmer very gently for 4 hours. : smoothly, with cold water, as much nneal as will make the soup tolerably ik ; pour it into the soup; continue ring till the whole is blended and well e, and eerve. Time.—4^ hours. Ave- e cost, Ad. per quart. Seasonable in ter. Sufficient lor 10 persons. IMOlSr BISCUITS. ngredients.—1;} lb. of flour, f lb. of ' sugar, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, z. of lemon-peel, 2 des.sert-spoontuls lemon-juice. Mode.—Rub the flour ) the butter; stir in the pounded ar and very tinely-minced lemon-peel, I when these ingredients are tho- ghly mixed, add the eggs, which uld bo previously well whisked, and lemon-juice. Beat the mixture well a minute or two, then drop it from a on on to a buttered tin, about 2 inches irt, as the cakes will spread when they warm ; place the tin in the oven, and ce the cakes of a pale brown from 15 IQ minutes. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. erage cost, 1». Gd, Seasonable at any le. Lemon Cake LEMON BLANCMANGE. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, the yolks of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of ground rice, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, 1^ oz. of fresh butter, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of 2, h oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Make a custard, with the yolks of the eggs and pint of the milk, and when done, put it into a basin; put half the re- mainder of the milk into a saucepan with the ground rice, fresh butter, lemon-rind, and „ 5> fl „ BIANCMANGB MOULD. 6 OZ. of the sugar, and let tntjse ingredients boil until the mixture is stiff, stirring them con- tinually ; when done, pour it into the bowl where the custard is, mixing both well together. Put the gelatine with the rest of the milk into a saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the tire to dissolve ; boil for a minute or tvco, stir carefully into the basin, adding 3 oz. more of pounded sugar. When cold, stir in the lemon-juice, which should be carefully strained, and pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, leaving ovit the lemon- peel, and set the mould in a pan of cold water until wanted for table. Use eggs that have rich-looking yolks; and, ^.hould the weather be very warm, rather a lai'ger proportion of gelatine must be allowed. Time.—Altogether, h hour. Average cost, Is, 6d. Sufficient to fill 2 small moulds. SeasonaXle at any time. LEMON CAKE. Ingredients.—10 eggs, 3 tablespoonfnls of orange-tlower water, ^ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lemon, j lb. of flour. Mode. —Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs ; whisk the former to a stiff froth ; add the orange-flower water, the sugar, grated lemon- rind, and mix these ingredients well to- gether. Then beat the yolks of the eggs, and add them, with the lemon, juice, to the cakb-mouli,. whites, &c. ; dredge in the tiour grad lally; keep beating the mixture well; put it into a butteredTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 180 Lemon Cheesecakea mould, and bako the cako about an hour, or rather longer. The addition of a little butter, beaten to a cream, wo think, would improve this cake. Time. ■—About 1 hour. Average cost, Is. id. Seasonable at any time. LEMON CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs, the rind of 2 lemons and the juice of 3. J/ot/e.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, carefully grating the lemon-rind and straining the juice. Keep stirring the mixture over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken: when of the consist- ency of honey, it is done ; then put it into small jars, and keep in a dry place. This mixture will remain good 3 or 4 months. When made into cheesecakes, add a few pounded almonds, or candied peel, or grated sweet biscuit; line some patty-pans with good puff-paste, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake for about \ hour in a good brisk oven. Time.—\ hour. Average cost, Is. id. Sufficient for 24 cheesecakes. Seasonable at any time. LEMON CBEAM. Ingredients.—1 pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs, ^ lb. of white sugar, 1 large lemon, 1 oz. of isinglass. Mode.-—Put the cream into a lined saucepan with the sugar, lemon-peel, and isinglass, and sim- LEMON-CKEAM MOULD. mer these over a gentle fire for about 10 minutes, stirring them all the time. Strain the cream into a jug, add the yolks of eggs, which should be well beaten, and put the jug into a saucepan of boiling water; stir the mixture one way until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; take it off the fire, and keep stirring it until nearly cold. Strain the l»mon-juice into a basin, gradually pour Lemon Creams on it the cream, and sliril well until tl juice is well mixed with it. Have read a well-oiled mould, pour the cream int it, and let it remain until perfectly set When required for table, loosen tlU|S)^ edges with a small blunt knife, put dish on the top of the mould, turn it ove' i quickly, and the cream should easily sli] away. Time.—10 minutes to boil th cream ; about 10 minutes to stir it ove the fire in the jug. Average cost, wit.1 cream at Is. per pint, and the best i glass, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill 1^-; mould. Seasonable at any time. LEMON CREAM, EconomicaL Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, 8 biUq almonds, 2oz. of gelatine, 21argelemo 5 lb. of lump sugar, the yolks of 6 Mode.—Put the milk into a lined sauced pan with the almonds, which should b( well pounded in a mortar, the gelatine lemon-rind, and lump sugar, and be these ingredients for about 5 minutis Beat up the yolks of the eggs, strain th( milk into a jug, add the eggs, and pouj the mixture backwards and forwards i few times, until nearly cold ; thea sti' briskly to it the lemon-juice, wh should be strained, and keep 6t until the cream is almost cold; put] into an oiled mould, and let it rer ' until perfectly set. The lemon-ju must not be added to the cream whe is warm, and should be well stirred i it is put in. Time.—5 minutes to the milk. Average cost, 2s. 5d. Suffic to fill two 1^ pint moulds. Seasonablei any time. LEMON CREAMS, Very Good. Ingredients.—1 pint of cream, 2 doa sweet almonds, 3 glasses of sherry, rind and juice of 2 lemons, sugar to Mode.—Blanch and chop the almonJ and put them into a jug with the ere in another jug put the sherry, lemfl rind, strained juice, and suflicientpounf sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. " rapidly from one jug to the other till' mixture is well frothed ; then pour it inti jelly-glasses, omitting the lemon-rin This is a very cool and delicious sweet i summer, and may be made less richj omitting the almonds and substitutio orange or raisin wine for the sherry.' ^ Tme.—Altogether, hour. Averagecoit, with cream at 1*. per pint, 3*. Suffi^^^ ■ \*fiE DICTIONAE? OF COOKEEY. 181 Lemon Creams, or Custards fill 12 glasses. Seasonable at any ne. BMON CEEAMS, or Custards. Ingredients.—5oz. of loaf sngar, 2 pinte boilin"- water, the rind of 1 lemon and e iuice'of 3, the yolks of 8 eggs. Mode. ake a quart of lemonade in the follow- g manner -.—Dissolve the sugar in the (iling water, having previously, with ,rt of the sugar, rubbed off the lemon- dd, and add the strained juice. Strain e lemonade into a saucepan, and add a yolks of the eggs, which should be ill beaten ; stir this one -way over the e until the mixture thickens, but do »t allow it to boil, and serve in custard asses, or on a glass dish. After the (iling water is poured on the sugar and men, it should stand covered for about hour before the eggs are added to it, at the flavour of the rind may be tracted. Time.—^2 hcur to make the monade; about 10 minutes to stir the stard over the fire. Average cost, Is. tfficient to fill 12 to 14 custard glasses. asonahle at any time. BMOTT DUMPLINGS. Ingi-edients.—}i lb. of grated bread, lb. of chopped suet, \ lb. of moist jgar, 2 eggs, 1 large lemon. Mode.— ix the bread, suet, and moist sugar lU together, adding the lemon-peel, ■which should le- Lemon-peel lElIOK DUUrLINGS, mon - 3UIC0 ; stir well, and put the mix- ro into small buttered cups. Tie them )Wn and boil for \ hour. Turn them •t on a dish, strew sifted sugar over lem, and servo with wine sauce. Time. \ hour. Average cost, Id. Sufficient r 6 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. EMON JELLY. Ingredients.—6 lemons, ^ lb. of lump jgar, 1 pint of water, l.j oz. of isin- ass, ^ pint of sheiTy. Mode.—Peel 3 the lemons, pour ^ pint of boiling iter on the rind, and let It inluse for lur; put the sugar, isinglass, and \ pint of water into a lined saucepan, and boil these ingredients for 20 minutes; then put in the strained lemon-juice, the strained infusion of the rind, and bring the whole to the point of boiling ; skim well, add the wine, and run the jelly through a bag ; pour it into a mould that has been wetted or soaked in water ; put it in ice, if convenient, where let it remain luitil required for table. Previously to adding the lemon-juice to the other ingre- dients, ascertain that it is very nicely strained, as, if this is not properly attended to, it is liable to make the jelly thick and muddy. As this jelly is very pale, and almost colourless, it answers very well for moulding with a jelly of any bright hue; for instance, half a jelly bright red, and the other half made of the above, would have a very good effect. Lemon jelly may also be made with calf's-feet stock, allowing the juice of 3 lemons to every pint of stock. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Average cost, with the best isin- glass, 3s. Qd. Sufficient to fill 1^ pint mould. Seasonable at any time. LEMON MINCEMEAT. Ingredients.—2 large lemons, 6 larg« apples, i lb. of suet, 1 lb. of ctirrants, ^ lb. of "sugar, 2 oz. of candied lemon- peel, 1 oz. of citron, mixed spice to taste. Mode.—Pare the lemons, squeeze them, and boil the peel until tender enough to mash. Add to the mashed lemon-peel the apples, which should be pared, cored, and minced; the chopped suet, currants, sugar, sliced peel, and spice. Strain the lemon-juice to these ingredients, stir the mixture well, and put it in a jar with a closely-fitting lid. Sdr occasionally, and in a week or 10 days the mincemeat will be ready for use. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 18 largo or 24 small pies. Seasonable. —Make this about the begin- ning of December. LEMON-PEEL. This contains an essential oil of a very high flavour and fragrance, and is con- sequently esteemed both a wholesome and agreeable stomachic. It is used, as will bo seen by many recipes in this book, as an ingredient for flavouring a number of various dishes. Under the name of candied lenion-peel, it is cleared of tho pulp and preserved in sugar, when it bs- oomes an excellent sweetmeat.182 THE DTCTTONATlY 0? COOKEBI?. Lemon Pudding, Baked LEMON PUDDING, Baked. IvjrstHeiits.—The yolks of 4 egcjs, 4 oz. of pouiidud sugar, 1 lomon, \ lb. of butter, pnH'-urust. MixLe. — Boat the eggs to a froth ; mix with them the sugar and warmed butter; stir these ingredi- ents well together, putting in the grated rind and straineil juice of the lemon- pool. Line a shallow dish with pufF- paste; put in the mixture, and bake in a moflerate oven for 40 minutes ; turn the pudding out of the dish, strew over itj'^sifted sugar, and serve. Time.—40 mifautes. Average cost, lOrf. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. LEMON PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—10 oz. of bread crumbs, 2 pints of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 1 lemon, \ lb. of pounded sugar, 4 eg>is, 1 table- spoonful of brandy. Mode.—Bring the milk to the boiling point, stir in the butter, and pour these hot over the bread crumV)s; add the suiiar and very finely-tniiieeil lemon-peel ; beat the egg's, and .stir these in with the brandy to the other ingredients ; put a paste round the dish, and bake for ^ hour. Time.— f hour. A veiiu/e cost, \s. 2d. Siffident fur 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. LEMON PUDDING, Baked (Very Eich). Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 2 lariie lemons, i lb. of loaf sugar, ;J pint of cream, the yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of almonds, lb. of butter, melted. Mode. —Mix the pounded sugar with the cream and add the yolks of e.^gs and the but- ter, which should be previously warmed. Blanch and poimd the almonds, and put these, with the grated rind and strained juice of the lemons, to the other ingre- dients. Stir all well together; line a dish with pufF-paste, put in the mixture, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. A verage cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. LEMON PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 lb. of chopped suet, I lb. of bread crumbs, 2 small lemons, G oz. of moist sugar, \ lb. of flour, 2 eg!js, milk. il/o(/e.—Mix the suet, bread crumbs, sugar, and (lour well to^retlier, adding tk© leinou-peol, which should be Lemon Wliite Sruice 3_ /S3 very finely minced, and 'he juinc, whiefti^ ^ should bo strained. When Iht.-c? ii p-pe- ' dients are well mixed, mois'iju u i:lj tlie eggs and sufficient tnilk to niii!:e the pudding of the consibtxjiicy of thii k bit- ter; put it into a well-buttvi ed mould, anri boil for 3.^ hours ; turn it out, strew silted sugar over, and serve wiih wine sauce, or not, at pleasure. Tiine.—3^ hours. Average cost, \s. Sufficieid for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This pudding may also be baked, and will be found very good. It will take about 2 hours. LEMON PUDDING, Plain. Ingredients.—\\h. of flour,6oz. oflarm""^ or dripping, the juice ofl large l"nion7 \ 1 teaspoonful of flour, su^'ar. Made.— Make the above proportions of flour and lard into a smooth paste, and roll it 'mt . to the thickness of about .J an inch. Squeeze the lemon-juice, strain it intu a cup, stir the Hour into it, and as much moist sugar as will make it into a sritf and thick paste; spread this riiixtur|4| iii over the paste, roll it up, seciu*e ibw '=' ends, and tie the pudding in a (loured I cloth. Boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours, f Average cost, 7d. Snfficieul tor 5 or 6 t persons. Seasonable at any time. t » LEMON SAUCE,for Boiled Fowl ( Ingredients.—Ismail lemon, J pint of | melted butter. Mode.—Cut the lemon i into very thin slices, and these atr.iin i into very small dice. Have rea<iy J pint I of melted butter, put in the lemon ; let j it just simmer, but not boil, and pour it | over the fowls. Time.—1 minute to '. simmer. Average cost, 6d. Sitfficient foi a pair of large fowls. LEMON WHITE SAUCE, for Fowls, Fricassees, &o. Ingredients.—^ pint of cream, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, ^ teaspoonful of whole white pejiper, 1 sprig of Kiimn thyme, 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertsiioinlul of flour, 1 teacupful of white stock ; suit to taste. i1/o^/<;.—Put the cream ir;.'* very clean saucepan (a lined one is l i-t), with the lemon-peel, pepper, and thyme, and let these infuse for hour, "' " simmer gently for a few minutes, or there is a nice flavour of lemon. ^. it, and add a thickening of buW-er andTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 183 lemon Sauce, for Sweet Puddings lur in the above proportions; stir this jll in, anfl put in the lemon-juice at the sment of serving ; mix the stock with e creiin), and add a little salt. This •ace should not boil after the cream and 5ck are mixed together. Time.—Alto- ther, J hour. Average cost, Is. (id. th'ri'eiit, this quantity, for a pair of •ife liiiiled fiiwls. ynle. — Wheie the expense of the cream olijected to, milk may be substituted - it In this case, an additional des- •tspoonfu', or rather more, of flour ist be added. BJMON SAUCE, for Sweet Pud- lings. Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 1 lion, 1 tablespoouful of Hour, 1 oz. of tter, 1 larg^e wiuefjlassful of sherry, 1 leylassful of water, sugar to taste, the Iks of 4 eggs. Mode.—Rub the rind the lemon on to some lumps of sugar; leeze out the juice, and strain it; put J butter and Hour into a saucepan, I* them over the fire, and when of a le brown, add the wine, water, and aineil lemon-jnice. Ciush the lumps sugar that were rubbed on the lemon ; r these into the sauce, which should very sweet. When these ingredients ! Well niixeil, and the sugar is molted, t, iu the beaten yolks of 4 eggs ; keep •ring the sauce until it thickens, when ve. Do not, on any account, allow it boil, or it will curdle, and be entirely died. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. erufje cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 ■sous. iJMON SPONGE. * 'jigredients.—2 oz. of isinglass, 1| pint water, ^ lb. of pounded sugar, the Be of 5 lemons, the rind of 1, the ites of 3 eggs. Mode.—Dissolve the iglass in the water, strain it into a icepau, and add the sugar, lemon-rind, 1 juice. Boil the whole from 10 to minutes ; strain it again, and let it hd till it is cold and begins to stiffen. it the whites of the eggs, put them to and whisk the mixture till it is quite ite ; [)ut it into a mould which has III previously wutted, and let it remain ,il )>erfertly set; then turn it out, and tiifh it according to taste. Time. — ;a 15 minutes. Average cost, with the t isinglass, 4«. Sufficient to fill a quart Uld. Seasonable at any tim9, Lemons, to Pickle LEMGH" SYRUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 pints of water. I oz. of citric acid, ^ drachm of essence of lemon. Mode.— Boil the sugar and water together for J hour, and put it into a basin, where let it remain till cold. Beat the citric acid to a powder, mix the essence of lemon with it, then add these two ingredient? to the syrup ; mix well, and bottle for use. Two tablespoon fills of the syrup are sufficient tor a tumbler of cold watc, and will he found a vei-y rel'resliing sum- mer drink. Sufficient. —2 tablcspoo-ufuls of syrup to a tumblerful of cold water. LEMOTTS, to Pickle, witli the Peel on. >v higredients.—6 lemons, 2 quarts of boiling water; to each quart of vinegar allow ^ oz. of cloves, oz. of white pepper, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, 5 oz. of maue and chilies, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, h stick of sliced horserailish, a few cloves of garlic. Mode.—Put the leumns into a brine that will bear an egg ; let them remain in it 6 days, stirring them every day; have ready 2 quarts of boiling water, put in the lemons, and allow them to boil for I hour; take them out, and let them lie in a cloth until perfectly dry and cold. Boil up sufficient vinegar to cover the lemons, with all the above ingredients, allowing the same propor- tion as stated to each quart of vinegar. Pack the lemons in a jar, pour over the vinegar, &c. boiling hot, and tie down with a bladder. They will he fit for use in about 12 months, or rather sooner. Seasonable.—This should be made from November to April. LEMOTiTS, to Pickle, without the Peel. Ingredients.—6 lemons, 1 lb. of fine salt; to each quart of vinegar, the same ingredients as in the last recipe. Mode, —Peel the lemons, slit each one down 3 times, so as not to divide them, and rub the salt well into the divisions ; place thorn in a pan, where they must remain for a week, turning them every other day; then put them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire until the salt has become perfectly dry ; then arrange them in a jar. Pour over sufficient boil- ing vinegar to cover them, to which have been added the ingredients mentioned inTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 181 Lemon "Wino I tho forcgffiinnf rccipo ; tic down closely, and in about 9 months thoy will bo (it for uso. Seusonahle.—Tlio best time to mako tills is from November to April. Note.—After tliispicklo bas been mndo from 4 to 5 months, tho litpior may bo strained and buttled, and will bo found an oxcellent lemon ketchup, LEMOU" WINE. Tngredienls.—To 4J gallons of water allow tho pulp of 50 lemons, the rind of 25, 16 lbs. of loaf sugar, h oz. of isinglass, 1 bottlo of brandy. At ode.—Peel and slice the lemons, but uso only the rind of 25 of them, and put them into tho cold ■water. Let it stand 8 or 9 days, squeez- ing the lemons well every day; then strain the water off and put it into a cask with the sugar. Let it work some time, and when it has ceased working, put in the isinglass. Stop the cask down ; in about six months put in the bi'andy and bottlo the wine off'. Season- able.—Tho best time to mako this is in January or Februai-y, when lemons are best and cheapest. LEMONADE. Ingredients.—The rind of two lemons, tho juico of 3 large or 4 small ones, h lb. of loaf sugar, 1 quart of boiling water. Mode. —Rub some of the sugar, in lumps, on 2 of the lemons until they have im- bibed all the oil from them, and put it •with the remainder of the sugar into a jug ; add the lemon-juice (but no pips), and pour over the whole a quart of boil- ing water. When the sugar is dissolved, strain tho lemonade through a fine sieve or piece of muslin, and, when cool, it will be ready for use. The lemonade will be much improved by having tho white of an egg beaten up in it; a little shen-y mixed with it, also, makes this beverage much nicer. Average cost, Qd. per quai't. LEMONADE, NourisMng. Ingredients.—1^ pint of boiling water, tho juico of 4 lemons, tho rinds of 2, ^ pint of sherry, 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare off tho lemon-i-ind thuily, put it into a jug with tho sugar, and pour over tho boiling water. Let it cool, then strain it; add tho wino, lemon- juice, and eggs, previously well beaten, an(l also strained, and tho beverage will be ready for uso. If thought desu-ablc, Liaison of Egga tho quantity of sherry and water cou bo lessened, and rmlk substituted j them. To obtain tho flavour of % lemon-rind properly, a few lumps of t sugar should be rubbed over it, v;; sonio of tho yellow is absorbed. 7'- : —Altogether ] hour to make it. A vera cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient to make 2\ k-ii, of lemonade. Seasonable at any time, ciot;i or^ e mi LETTUCES, These form one of tho principal injrr dients to summer salads ; .they fihoulcf blanched, and bo eaten young. Theya seldom served in any other way, but be stewed and sent to table in brown gravy flavoured with lemon-j In preparing them for a salad, careful wash them free from dirt, pick off all t decayed and outer leaves, and dry the. thoroughly by shaking them in a clol Cutoff tho stalks, and either halve or the lettuces into small pieces. The ner of cutting them up entirely de_ on the salad for which they are intendii In France, the lettuces are sometinji merely wiped with a cloth and Di washed, the cooks there declaring tk the act of washing them injurious, affects the pleasant crispness of ij plant: in this case scnipulous attei must bo paid to each leaf, and the thoroughly wiped away. Average when cheapest. Id. each. Sajjicie. Allow 2 lettuces for 4 or 5 pe Seasonable from JIarch to tho end' August, but may bo had all tho year. LEVEBET, to Dress a. Ingredients.—2 leverets, butter, flc; Mode.—Leverets should be trussed the same manner as a hare, but tlicy ( not require stuffing. Roast them hefo a clear fire, and keep them well bash all the time they are cooking. A fc minutes before serving, dred r t' - ' lightly with flour, and froth thci Serve with plain gra\'y in the C\. ... i send to tablercd-curraut jelly wit !j ther | Time.—.\ to ^ hour. Average co^' season, 3j. each. Sufficient for persons. Seasonable from May to Au^u; | but cheapest in July and August. ^ LIAISON OF EGGS, for Thickei * ing Sauces. In^/rcdiciits.—Tho yolks of 3 egg 8 tiiblespoonfuls of milk or cro.'Ui185 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Liqueur Jelly c—Beat up tho yolks of the eggs, hich add the milk, and strain the e through a hair-sieve. When the m is being added to the sauce it is ided to thicken, care must be exer- l to keep stirring it during the whole , or, otherwise, the eggs will curdle, lould only just simmer, but not bolL tUEUR JELLY. gredients.—l lb. of lump sugar, 2 oz. inglass, \h pint of water, the juice of mons, \ "pint of liqueur. Mode.— the sugar, with 1 pint of the water, a stewpan, and boil thom gently by side of the fire until there is no scum lining, which must be carefully re- ed as fast as it rises. Boil the isin- j with the other h pint of water, and OTAIi JELLT U0T7LI). HI it carefully in the same manner. i lin the lemon-juice, and add it, with clarified isinglass, to the syrup ; put ;he liqueur, and bring the whole to boiling-point. Let the saucepan lain covered by tho side of the fire a few minutes; then pour the jelly 3Ugh a bag, put it into a mould, and the mould in ice until required for lo. Dip the mould in hot water, wipe outside, loosen tho jelly by passing a fe round the edges, and turn it out efully on a dish. Noyeaii, Maraschino, •agoa, brandy, or any kind of liqueur, wers for this jelly ; and, when made h isinglass, liqueur jollies are usually pared as directed above. Time.— minutes to boil the sugar and water, erage cost, with tho best isinglass,. Qd. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. soTidble at any time. VER AND LEMON SAUCE, for Poultry. 'ngredients.—The liver of a fowl, one ion, salt to taste, ^ pint of molted Lobsters, to boil butter, il/orfe.—Wash the liver, and let it boil for a few minutos ; peel the lemon very thin, remove the white part and pips, and cut it into very small dice; mince the liver and a small quantity of the lemon rind very fine; add these in- gredients to \ pint of smoothly-made melted butter ; season with a little salt, put in the cut lemon, heat it gradually, but do not allow it to boil, lest the butter should oil. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Sufficient to serve with a pair of small fowls. LIVER AND PARSLEY SAUCE, for Poultry. Ingredients.—The liver of a fowl, one tablespootiful of minced parsley, h pint of melted butter. Mode.—Wash and score the liver, boil it for a few minutes, and mince it very fine; blanch or scald a small bunch of parsley, of which there should be sufficient when chopped to fill a tablespoon ; add this with the minced liver, to h pint of smoothly-made melted butter; let it just boil; when serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Sufficient for a pair of small fowls. LOBSTERS, to Boil. Ingredients.—^Ib. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Buy the lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of motion, which is an indication of their freshness. When the shell is incrusted, it is a sign they are old: medium-sized lobsters are tho best. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion; put in the lobster, and keep it boiling quickly from 20 minutes to ^ hour, according to its size, and do not forget to skim well. If it boils too long, the meat becomes thready, and if not done enough, the spawn is not red : this must be obviated by great attention. Rub the shell over with a little butter or sweet oil, which wipe off again. Time.— Small lobster, 20 minutes to h hour; large ditto, i to ^ hour. Average cost, medium size. Is. 6rf. to 2s. 6cZ. Seasonable &\l the year, but best from March to October. To CnoosE Lobsters.—This shell- fish, if it has been cooked alive, as it ought to have been, will havo a stiffness in tho tail, which, if gently raised, will return with a spring. Care, however, must be taken in thus proving it; for if the tail is pulled straight out, it will notTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEIf?. 18G Lobster Curry return ; whon the flsh might bo pro- nouncoii interior, whicii, in reality, may not bo the case. In order to bo good, lolif?ter3 should be wei^cbty for their bulk ; if lii^ht, they will be watery ; and those of the medium size, are always the best. Small-sized lobsters are cheapest, and answer very well for sauce. In boil- ius lobsters, the appearance of the shell will be much improved by rubbing over it a little butter or salad-oil on being immediately taken from the pot. LOBSTER CURRY (an Entree). Ingredients.—1 lobster, 2 onions, 1 oz, butter, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, J pint of medium stock, the juice of | lemon. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut into nice square pieces; fry the onions of a pale brown in the butter, stir in the curry-powder and stock, and simmer till it thickens, when put in the lobster ; stew the whole slowly for h hour, stirring occasionally; and just before sending to table, put in the lemon -juice. Serve boiled rice with it, the same as for other curries. Time.— Altogether,- ^ hour. Average cost, Zs. Seasonahte at any time. LOBSTER CUTLETS (an Entree). Ingredient's.—1 large hen lobster, 1 oz. fresh butter, h saltspoonful of salt, pounded mace, grated nutmeg, cayenne and white pepper to taste, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and pound it in a mortar with the butter, and gradually add the mace and seasoning, well mixing the ingredients ; beat all to a smooth paste, and add a little of the spawn ; divide the mixture into pieces of an equal size, and shape them like cutlets. They should not be very thick. Brush them over vnth egg, and spi inkle with bread crumbs, and stick a short piece of the small claw in the top of each ; fry them of a nice brown in boiling lard, and drain them before the fire, on a sieve reversed; arrange them nicely on a dish, and pour bechamel in the middle, but not over the cutlets. Time.—About 8 minutes after the cutlets are made. Average cost for this di.sh, 2s. M. &easoiuMe sxll thoyeai'. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. LOBSTERS, to Dress. When the lobster is boiled, rub it over with a little salud-oil, which wipe off Lobster, Po'ted again ; separate the body from the lai break off the great claws, and crack thei at the joints, witliout injuring the jneattj split the tail in halves, and arrange a! neatly in a dish, with the body uprigh in the middle, and garnish with parsley LOBSTER, Hot. Ingredients.—1 lobster, 2oz. of butter \ gratednutmeg; salt, pepper, and poundei j mace, to taste ; bread crumbs, 2 eggs \ Mode.—Pound the meat of the lobstert' , a smooth paste with the butter and sea Eoning, and add a few bread crura Beat the eggs, and make the whole ture into the form of a lobster; poui the spawn, and sprinkle over it. Ba! I hour, and just before serving, lay ovc it the tail and body shell, with the sruul claws underneath, to resemble a lobsi Time.—\ hour. Average cost, 2s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for j or 5 persons. LOBSTER PATTIES (an Entree) Ingredients.—Minced lobster, 4 tan!o spoonfuls of bechamel, 6 drf)psofancl.''iv> sauce, 'lemon-juice, cavenne to tast . Mode.—Line the patiy-jjans with l u!;'- paste, and put into each a small piece i f bread ; cover with paste, brush over wj ' egg, and bake of a light colour. Tii as much lobster as is required, u)ince meat very fine, and add the above in; dients ; .'^tir it over thu fire for 5 minut remove the lids of the patty-c-asts, out the bread, fill with the mixture, replace the covers. Seasonable at time. LOBSTER, Potted. Ingredients.—2 lobsters ; seasoning taste, of nutmeg, pounded uiace, wl* pepper, and salt ; \ lb. of butter, 3 i bay-leaves. Moile.—Take out the iu8 cai efully from the shell, but do not cut it up. Put some butter at the bottom of i a dish, lay in the lobster as evenly as ' possible, with the bay-haves and so:i«iiti- ) ing between. Cover with butt; bake for J hour in a gentle oven. done, drain the whole on a sieve, ami ♦ lay the pieces in potting-jars, willi the • seasoning about them. Whence; ^ over it clarified butter, and, it ^ ^ y highly seasoned, it will keep some tir^e. Time.—^ hour. Average co.<!f for quantity, it. 4d Seasonable at time.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2 auchoTies, 1 onion; 1 small buticb of i.ihing to lobster salad. 1S7 Lobster (h. la Mode Francaise) ]\'o(e.—l'oUed lobster may be used Id, or as & fricassee with cream sauce. 3BSTEB la Mode Prancaise). Imjredlents.—l lobster, 4 tablespoon- s of white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of !am, iHniniled mace, and cayenne to ;te; bread cruml)s. Tl/oc/e—Pick the ■lit 'from the she!!, and cut it up into all square pieces; put the stock, !am, and seasoning into a stewpah, :1 the lobster, and let it simmer gently 6 minutes. Serve it in the shell, ich must be nicely cleaned, and have Dor.ler of puff-paste; cover it with jad crumbs, place small pieces of butter sr, and brown before the fire, or with alamander. rime.—;i hour. Average t, 2s. 6tf. Seasonable at any time. )BSTER SALAD. b>gredunls.—\ hen lobster, lettuces, live, small salad (whatever is in sea- i), a little chopped beetroot, 2 hard- led eggs, a few slices of cucumber, r dressing, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made Istard, the yolks of 2 eggs ; cayenne 1 salt to taste; \ teaspoonful of shovy sauce. These ingredients should mixeil perfectly smooth, and form a amy-looking sauce. Mode. — Wash I salad, and thoroughly dry it by ildng it in a cloth. Cut up the let- ses and endive, pour the dressing on im, and lightly throw in the small id. Mix all well together with the Wings from the body of the lobster; k the meat from the shell, cut it up 0 nice square pieces, put half in the \({, the other half reserve for gar- hing. Separate the yolks from the ites of 2 hard-boiled eggs; chop the ites very fine, and rub the yolks ough a sieve, and afterwards the coral m the inside. Arrange the salad itly on a class dish, and garnish, first h a row of sliced cucumber, then with pieces of lobster, the yolks and tes of the eggs, coral, and beetroot Bed alternately, and arranged in ill scyiarato bunches, so that the co- 1 I S contrast nicely. A verage cost, 'd.i. 6d. ' rieii.l for 4 oi P persons. Semonahfe April to October; may bo had all oar, but salad is scarce and expeu- ■1 winter, ,/^.—A. few crayfish make a pretty Lobster Soup LOBSTER SAUCE, to serve with Turbot, Salmon, Brill, &c. (very Good.) Ingredients.—1 middling-sized hen lobster, ^ pint of melted butter, 1 table- spoontul of anchovy sauce, ^ oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace when liked, 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of cream. Mude.—Choose a hen lobster, as this is indispensable, in order to render this sauce as good as it ought to be. Pick the meat from the shells, and cut it into small square pieces ; put the spawn, which will be found under the tail of the lobster, into a mortar with h oz. of butter, and pound it quite smooth; rub it through a hair- sieve, and cover up till wanted. Make ^ pint of melted butter; put in all the ingredients except the loliRter-meat, and well mix the sauce before the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, as the colour would immediately be spoiled; for it must be rpmembered that this sauce should always have a bright red appearance. If it is intended to be served with turbot or brill, a little of the spawn (dried and rubbed through a sieve without butter) should be saved to garnish with ; but as the goodness, flavour, and appearance of the sauce so much depend on having a proper quan- tity of spawn, the less used for garnishing the better. Time.—1 minute to simmer. AveJ-age cost, for this quantity, 'Zs. Sea- sonable at any time. Sufficient to serve with a small turbot, a brill, or salmon for 6 persons. A^ote.—Melted butter made with milk, will be found to answer very well for lobster sauce, as by employing it a nice white colour will be obtained. Less quantity tnan the above may be made by using a very small lobster, to which add only h pint of melted butter, and season as above. Where economy is desired, the cream may be dispi-nsed with, and the remains of a cold lobster left from talilo, may, with a little care, be converted into a very good sauce. LOBSTER SOUP. IjigredienUt.— S large lobsters, or 8 small ones ; the crumb of a French roll,THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 188 Luncheons Bweet horbs, 1 strip of lomon-poel, 2 oz. of butter, a little nutmeg, 1 toasjioonful of flour, i pint of cream, 1 pint of milk; forcemeat balls, mace, salt, and pepper to taste, broad crumbs, 1 egg, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Pick the meat from the lobsters, and beat tho fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar, previously taking away the brown fin and the bag in tho head. Put it in a stewpan, with the crumb of the roll, anchovies, onions, herbs, lemon-peel, and the water; sim- mer gently till all the goodness is ex- tracted, and strain it off. Pound the spawn in a mortar, with the butter, nutmeg, and flour, and mix with it the cream and milk. Give one boil up, at the same time adding the tails cut in pieces. Make the forcemeat balls with the remainder of the lobster, seasoned with mace, pepper, and salt, adding a little floiu", and a few bread crumbs; moisten them with the egg, heat them in the soup, and serve. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, Zs. 6d. per quart. Seaaonahle from April to October, Sufficient for 8 persons, XiUITCHEOTrS, The remains of cold joints, nicely gar- nished, a few sweets, or a little hashed meat, poultry or game, are the usual articles placed on the table for luncheon, ■with bread and cheese, biscuits, butter, &c. If a substantial meal is desired, rump-steaks or mutton chops may be served, as also veal cutlets, kidneys, or any dish of that kind. In families where there is a nursery, the mistress of the house often partakes of the meal with the children, and makes it her luncheon. In tho summer, a few dishes of fresh fruit should be added to the luncheon, or, instead of this, a comp6te of fruit or fruit tart, or pudding. MAOABONI, as usually served with the CHEESE COUESE, I, Ingredients.—I lb, of pipe macaroni, i lb. of butter,'6 oz. of Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of milk, 2 pints of water, bread crumbs. Mode.—Put tho milk and water into a saucepan with sufficient salt to flavour it; place it on the firo, and, whep it boils quickly, drop in the macaroni. Keep the water boiling until it is quite Macaroni tender ; drain the macaroni, and put i into a deep dish. Have ready the gnite cheese, either Parmesan or Cheshire sprinkle it amongst the macaroni an some of tho butter cut into small piotr- reserving some of tho cheese for tho layer. Season with a little pepper, cover the top layer of cheese with very line bread crumbs. Warm, with oiling, the remainder of tho butter, pour it gently over tho bread cninai| Place the dish belore a bright firo brown the crumbs; turn it once or iwia that it may be equally coloured, an serve very hot. The top of the macaroi may be browned with a salamanda* which is even better than placing 11 before the fire, as the process is mor expeditious; but it should never t ; browned in the oven, as the butter woul | oil, and so impart a very disagreeab! • flavour to the dish. In boiling the m; roni, let it be perfectly tender but ti: _ no part beginning to melt, and the \_ entirely preserved. It may be boiled] plain water, with a little salt instead! using milk, but should then have a smJ piece of butter mixed with it. Ti.ne.- 1 to H hour to boil the mac 5 minutes to brown it before thoj Average cost, Is. Qd. Sujjlcient >Btmm^.^ or 7 persons. Seasonable at any tirao,jkj,j; Note.—Piiband macaroni maybe dre in tho same manner, but does not roq boiling so long a time, n. Ingredients.—J lb. of pipe or ribaa macaroni, ^ pint of milk, I pint of yi^-^'' or beef gi'avy, the yolks of 2 egg?. ' " • ■' spoonfuls of cream, 3 oz. of gn. mesan or Cheshire cheese, 1 oz. o; ^ i; . Mode.—Wash the macaroni, and boil in the gravy and milk until q ' der, without being broken. Drai put it into rather a deep dish. •L''-'''J^l. yolks of tho eggs with the crcnm M^CiS 2 tablespoonfuls of the liquor tl roni was boiled in ; make this su;. hot to thicken, but do not allow it i i boil; pour it over tho m.acaro'.r. t which sprinkle tho grated cheese butter broken into small pieces ; with a salamander, or before the serve. Time.—I to l.J hour to i macaroni, 5 minutes to thicken tho< and cre^mi, 5 minutes to brown. Ai cost. Is. 2d.. Si'ftc{e7it for 3 or 4 person Seasonable at my time. crsoB t189 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Macaroni Pudding, Sweet in. ffreclients.—J lb. of pipe macaroni, it of brown gravy No. 43(5, 6 oz. of ed Parmesan chetse. Mode.—Wash macaroni, and boil it in salt and sr until quite tender; drain it, and it into rather a deep dish. Have y a pint of good brown gravy, pour it over the macaroni, and send it to 5 with grated Parmesan served on a rate dish. When the flavour is liked, lie pounded mace may be added to TOter in which the macaroni is boiled; jhis must always be sparingly added, 1 will impart a very strong flavour. !.—1 tol^ hour to boil the macaroni. •age cost, "with the gravy and cheese, \d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. jndble at any time. OABONI, Sweet Pudding. gredients.—2.^ oz. of macaroni, 2 pints ilk, the rind of J lemon, 3 eggs, sugar grated nutmeg to taste, 2 tablespoon- Df brandy. Mode.—Put the maca- with a pint of the milk, into a span with the lemon-peel, and let it ler gently until the macaroni is er; then put it into a pie-dish with- ;ho peel; mix the other pint of milk the eggs; stir these well together, ag the sugar and brandy, and pour nixturo over the macaroni. Grate a nutmeg over the top, and bake in a srate oven for h hour. To make this iing look nice, a paste should be laid d the edges of the dish, and, for ity, a layer of preserve or marmalade be placed on the macaroni: in this omit the brandy. Time.—1 hour mmer the macaroni; i hour to bake adding. A vemge cost, lid. Sufficient > or 6 persons. SeasonaMe at any SCAEONI SOUP. dients.—3 oz. of macaroni, apiece jLittcr the size of a walnut, salt to I, 2 quarts of clear stock. Mode.— Iw the macaroni and butter into boil- ■water, with a pinch of salt, and lier for A an hour. When it is tender, It and cut it into thin rings or lengths, Hrop it into the boiling stock. Stew By for 15 minutes, and serve grated Kesan cheeso with it. 2'ime.—^ to 1 W. A 'cerage cost, Is. per quart. Season- W'lU the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Mackerel MACABONI, a Sweet Dish of. Ingredie-Us.—^ lb. of macaroni, 1^ pint of milk, the rind of h lemon, 3 oz. of lump sugar, 5 pint of custard. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan, with the lemon- peel and sugar ; bring it to the boiling- point, drop in the macaroni, and let it gradually swell over a gentle fire, but do not allow the pipes to break. The fonn should be entirely preserved; and, though tender, should be firm, and not soft, with no part beginning to melt. Should the milk dry away before the macaroni ia sufiiciently swelled, add a little more. Make a custard, place the macaroni on a dish, and pour the custard over th hot macaroni; grate over it a little nutmeg, and, when cold, garnish the dish with slices of candied citron. Time.—From 40 to 50 minutes to swell the macaroni. Average cost, with the custard. Is. Suffi- cient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MACABOONS. Ingredients.—lb. of sweet almonds, h lb. of sifted loaf sugar, the whites of three eggs, wafer paper. Mode,— Blanch, skin and dry the almonds, and pound them well with a little orange flower or plain water, then add the sifted sugar and the whites of the eggs, which should bo beaten to a stiff froth, and mix all the ingredients well together. When the paste looks soft, drop it at equal dis- tances from a biscuit syringe on to sheets of wafer paper : put a strip of almond on the top of each ; strew some syrup over, and bake the macaroons in rather a slow oven, of a light brown colour. When hard and set, they are done. They musb not be allowed to get very brown, as that would spoil their apijearance. If the cakes when baked, appear heavy, add a little more white of egg, which should be well whisked up before it is added to the other ingredients. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is. M. per lb, MACKEREL. In choosing this fish, purchasers should, to a great extent, be regulated by the brightness of its appearance. If it have a transparent, silvery hue, the flesh is good ; but if it be red about the head, it 18 stale.190 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Mackerel, Baked MACKEREL, Baked. Inijredieiils.—4 miildlinof-sized maoko- rel, a nice dolicato lorcomeat, 3 oz. of butter ; pepper ami salt to taste. Mode. —Clean the tisli, take out the roes, and fill up with forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Flour, and put them in a dish, heads and tails alternately, with the roes ; and, between each layer, put some little pieces of butter, and pepper and salt. Bake for h an hour, and either serve with plain melted butter or a muitre (Pkdlel sauce. Time.—h hour. Average cost for this quantity, ls'\i)d. Seasonable from April to July. Sufficient for 6 jjer- sons. Note.—Baked mackerel maybe dressed in the same way as baked herrings, and may also be stewed in wine. MACKEREL, Boiled. Ingredients.—^ lb. of salt to each gal- lon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the inside of the tish thoroughly, and lay it in the kettle with sufficient water to cover it with salt as above ; bring it gradually to boil, skim well, and simmer gently till done ; dish them on a hot napkin, heads and tails alternately, and garnish with fennel. Fennel sauce and plain melted butter are the usual accompaniments to boiled mackerel; but caper or anchovy sauce is sometimes served with it. Time, —After the water boils, 10 minutes; for large mackerel, allow more time. Ave- rage cost, from i.d. Seasonable from April to July. Note.—When variety is desired, fillet the mackerel, boil it, and pour over pars- ley and butter; send some of this, besides, iu a tureen. MACKEREL, Broiled. Ingredients.—Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil. Mode.—Mackerel should never be washed when intended to bo broiled, but merely wiped very clean and dry, after taking out the gills and iusides. Open the back, and put in a little pepper, salt, and oil ; broil it over a clear tire, turn it over on both sides, and also on the back. When sufficiently cooked, the flesh can bo detached from the bone, which will be in about 10 minutes for a small mackerel. Chop a little parsley, work it up in the butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and a equeozo of lemon-juice, and put it in Maigre Soup the buck. Serve before the butter quite melted, with a mailre d'Uulet k in a tureen. Time. —Small iij;:cki 10 minutes. Average cost, fi-om Seasonable from April to July, MACKEREL, Fillets of. Ingredients.—2 large mackerel, 1 butter, 1 small bunch of choppe 1 h';i 3 tablespoonfuls of medium stock, 3 tal spoonfuls of bechamel; salt, cayen and lemon-juice to taste. J/oc/e.— the fish, and fillet it; scald the chop them fine, and put them witk butter and stock into a stewpan. Ll the mackerel, and simmer very gen for 10 minutes ; take them out, and ) them on a hot dish. Dredge in a li! flour, add the other ingredients, g one boil, and pour it over the maci Time.—20 minutes. Average co: this quantity, Is. Qd. Seasonable April to July. Sufficient for 4 pe Note.—Fillets of mackerel ma covered with egg and bread crumb fried of a nice brown. Serve with d'kClel sauce and plain melted but MACKEREL, Pickled. Ingredients.—12 peppercorns, 2 leaves, h pint of vinegar, 4 mao Mode.—Boil the mackerel, and lay in a dish ; take half the liquor they boiled in ; add as much vinegar, p corns, and bay-leaves ; boil for 10 mi and when cold, pour over the fish. —h hour. Average cost, li. Qd. MACKEREL, Potted. Ingredients. —Mackerel, a bl mace, cayenne, salt, and 2 oz. or butter, according to the quan"' mackerel. Mode. —Anj- lemains of mackerel ma^' be potted as follows; it well from the bones, break it into small pieces, and put into a stewpan wi the butter, pounded mace, and other i gredients ; wai-m it thoroughl3', but' not let it boil ; jiress it into potting JK and pour clarified butler over iu MAIGRE SOUP (Le., Soup vn& out Meat). Ingredients. —Q oz. butter, 6 onic sliced, 4 heads of celery, 2 1< small bunch of pai-slcy, 2 hp spinach, 3 pieces of bread cnist, of mace, salt and pepper to i:.a?HE DlCTIONAEY OP COOKERY. 191 Maize, Boiled of 2 esgs, 3 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, arts of water. Mode.—Melt the in a stewpan, and put in the onions ew gently for 3 or 4 minutes; then the celery, spinach, lettuces, and ey, cut suicall. Stir the ingredients lor 10 minutes. Now put in the ■, bread, seasoning, and mace. Boil y for Ik hour, and, at the moment rving, beat in the yolks of the eggs he vinegar, but do not let it boil, or iggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. ffe cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable 0 year. Sufficient for 8 persons, :ZE, Boiled. yredients.—The ears of young and Indian wheat; to every ^ gallon ter allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of Mode. — This vegetable, which s one of the most delicious dishes ht to table, is unfortunately very seen in Britain ; and we wonder in the gardens of the wealthy, it is variably cultivated. Our sun, it is possesses hardly power sufficient en maize; but, with well-prepared d, and in a favourable position, it be sufficiently advanced by the ning of autumn to serve as a vege- The outside sheath being taken d the waving fibres removed, let ars bo placed in boiling water, they should remain for about 25 es (a longer time may be necessary r^er ears than ordinary); and, sufficiently boiled and well drained, may be sent to table whole, aud piece of toast underneath them, d butter should be served with them. — 25 to 35 minutes. Average -Seldom bought. Sufficient 1 ear lor erson. Seasonable in autumn. jT wine. redients.—5 gallons of water, 28 lbs. ar, 6 quarts of sweet-wort, 6 quarts , 3 lbs. of raisins, k lb. of candy, 1 f brandy. Mode.—Boil the sugar ater together for 10 minutes; skim , aud put the liquor into a conve- sized pan or tub. Allow it to cool; nix it with the sweet-wort and tun, stand for 3 days, then put it into a ; here it will work or ferment for ir three days or more ; then bung 1 ca.sk, and keep it undisturbed (or 3 months. After this, add the I (whole), the candy, and brandy March—Bills of Pare and, in 6 months' time, bottle the wine off. Those who do not brew, may pro- cure the sweet-wort and tun from any brewer. Sweet-wort is the liquor that leaves the mash of malt before it is boiled with the hops ; tun is the new beer after the whole of the brewing operation has been completed. Time.—ToXie boiled 10 minutes ; to stand 3 days after mix- ing ; to ferment 3 days; to remain in the cask 2 months before the raisins are added; bottle 6 months after. Season- able.—Make this in March or October. MANNA KROtrP PUDDING. Ingredients. — 3 tablespoonfuls of manna kroup, 12 bitter almonds, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 3 eggs. Mode.— Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar; mix them with the manna kroup ; pour over these a pint of boiling milk, and let them steep for about i hour. When nearly cold, add sugar and the well-beaten eggs ; mix all well toge- ther; put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake for k hour. Time.—^ hour. Average cost, M. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MARCH-BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for IS persons. First Course. n P. Turtle or Jlock Turtle Soup, rem.'ved by Salmon and dressed Cuuuiuber, Vaae of Flowers. Sprinp; Soup, removed by Boiled Turbot and Lobster Sauce. o Enti ■ees. I—. a Fricasseed Chicken, Vase of Flowers, larded Sweetbreads a o o bo <o p. S oTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 103 Marcjh—Bills of Pare kiecond Course. 3 ^ re 3 Fore-quarter of Lamb. Eraisod Capou. Vase of Plowera. Eoast Fowls. Bump of Beef i la Jardiuierc. 1 Third Course. Guinea-Fowls, larded, removed by Cabinet Pudding. Wioo Jelly. Yaso of Flowera. Italian Cream, « 4^ p 93 Ph Ducklings, removed by ^ Nesselrode Pudding. § S Dessert and Ices. Dinner for 12 persons. i^iViJ Course. — White soup ; clear gravy soup ; boiled salmon, shrimp sauce, and dressed cucumber; baked mullets in paper cases. Entrees.—Filet de boeuf and Spanish sauce ; larded sweetbreads ; rissoles ; chicken patties. Second Course. —Roast fillet of veal and Bechamel sauce ; boiled leg of lamb; roast fowls, garnished with water-cresses; boiled ham, garnished with carrots and mashed turnips; vegetables—sea kale, spinach, or brocoli. Third Course.—Two duck- lings ; guinea-fowl, larded; oi-ango jelly; Charlotte Russo ; coffee cream ; ice pudding; macaroni with Parmesan cheese; spinach, garnished with crofl- tous; dessert and ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Macaroni soup; boiled turbot and lobster sauce ; salmon cutlets. Entrees.—CompOto of pigeons; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. Second Course. — Roast lamb; boiled half calfs head, tongue, and brains ; boiled bacon-cheek, garnislied with spoonsfuls of spinach; vegetables. Third Courjc—Ducklings ; March—Bills of Faro an plum-pudding; ginger cream ; trifl|j4B rhubarb tart; cheesecakes; fondueaT ^ cases; dessert and ices. i If- Dinner for 8 persons. i''tV.?< CoMi-M.—Calfs-head soup; bri and shrimp sauce ; broiled mackerel ai Maitro d'Htitel. Ent.re'cs.—Luh^tcr ^.^ lets; calf's liver and bacon, aux herbes. Second Course—Roast loin i veal; two boiled fowls h la L&baroel boiled knuckle of ham ; vegetable - spinach or brocoli. Third Course.—\iH ducks; apple custards ; blancmai lemon jelly ; jam sandwiches ; ice ding ; jjotatoes h la Maltre d'Hdtel; sert and ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Vermicelli soup; h la Cr6me. Entries.—Veal cutl small vols au-vent. Second Cour Small saddle of mutton ; half calfs 1 boiled bacon-cheek, garnished with sels sprouts. Third Course.—Cat- pudding; orange jelly; custards, glasses; rhubarb tart; lobster sa" dessert. First Course.—Julienne soup; bs mullets. Entrees. — Chicken cutlc oyster patties. Second Course.— lamb and mint sauce ; boiled leg of | pease pudding; vegetables. Course. —Ducklings; Swiss cream; lei jelly; cheesecakes; rhubarb tait; maa roni; dessert. If- m First Course. — Oyster soup ; boils salmon and dressed cucumber. Enlret —Rissoles ; fricasseed chicken. Seco* Course.—Boiled leg of mutton, cap< sauce ; roast fowls, garnished with wate cresses; vegetables. Third Course.- Charlotte aux pommes; orange jellj lemon cream ; soufS6 of arrowroot; e« kale; dessert. First Course. — Ox-tatl soup; 1-uiW mackerel. hhitrics. — Stewed kidnej'S; minced veal and > Second Course.—Stewed shoulder oi ve» roast ribs of beef and horseradish vegetables. Third CoursC'-Dach tartlets of strawberi^ jam ; chccsei Gateau do Riz ; carrot pudding; kale : dessert.193 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. reh. Plain Family Dinners for aCH, Plain Family Dinners OT. nday.—1. Boiled h calPs head, pic- pork, the tongue on a small dish the brains round it; mutton cutlets mashed potatoes. 2. Plum tart » with bottled fruit, baked custard ing, Baroness pudding. mday.—1. Roast shoulder of mutton inion sauce, brocoli, baked potatoes, ices of Baroness pudding warmed, served with sugar sprinkled over, secakes. esday.—1. Mock turtle soup, made liquor that calf's head was boiled in, ;he pieces of head. 2. Hashed mut- rump-steaks and oyster sauce. 3. d plum-pudding. 'dnesday.—1. Fried whitings, melted ir, potatoes. 2. Boiled beef, suet )lings, carrots, potatoes, marrow- !. 3. Arrowi'oot blancmange, and id rhubarb. ursday.—1. Pea-soup made from m- that beef was boiled in. 2. *tfl rump-steak, cold beef, mashed s. 3. Rolled jam pudding, ■y.—1. Fried soles, melted butter, ^. 2. Roast loin of mutton, bro- tatoes, bubble-and-squeak. 3. Iding. lay. — 1. Rump-steak pie, haricot made with remains of cold loin, akes, ratafia pudding. ■ '.y.—1. Roast fillet of veal, boiled »i spinach and potatoes. 2. Rhubarb Bustards in glasses, bread-and-but- idding. nday.—1. Baked soles, potatoes, need veal and rump-steak pie. 3. rsetshire dumplings with the re- i of custards poured round them; alade tartlets. '■sday.—l. Gravy soup. 2. Boiled f mutton, mashed turnips, suet lings, caper sauce, potatoes, veal iS made with remains of fillet of 3. Cheese. dnesday.—1. Stewed mullet. 2. fowls, bacon, gravy, and bread , mutton pudding, made with a ices of the cold meat and the addi- )f two kidneys. 3. Baked lemon irnlay.—1. Vcgolable soup niado iquor that the mutton was boiled d mixed with tho remains of gravy Marmalade and Vermicelli Pudding soup. 2. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, horseradish sauce, brocoli and potatoes. 3. Apple pudding or maca- roni. Friday.—1. Stewed eels, pork cutlets, and tomato sauce. 2. Cold beef, mashed potatoes. 3. Plum tart made with bot- tled fruit. Sahirday. — 1. Rumpsteak-and-kidney pudding, broiled beef-bones, greens and potatoes. 2. Jam tartlets made with pieces of paste from plum tart, baked custard pudding. MARCH, Things in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, cai-p, crabs, cray- fish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whiting. Meat.— Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, veal. Poidtry.—Capons, chickens, ducklings, tame and wild pigeons, pullets with eggs, turkeys, wild-fowl, though now not in full season. G^ame.—Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcock. Vegetables.—Beetroot, brocoli (purple and white), Brussels sprouts, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucum- bers (forced), endive, kidney-beans, let- tuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, sea- kale, spinach, turnips,—various herbs. Fruit. — Apples (golden and Dutch pippins), grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears (]Bon Chretien), walnuts, dried fruits (foreign), such as almonds and raisins; French and Spanish plums f prunes, figs, dates, crystallized preserves. MARMALADE AND VERMI- CELLI PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 breakfastcupful of ver- micelli, 2 tablespoonfuls of marmalade, \ lb. of raisins, sugar to taste, 3 eggs, milk. Mode.—Pour some boiling milk on the vermicelli, and let it remain covered for 10 minutes ; then mix with it the marmalade, stoned raisins, sugar, and beaten eggs. Stir all well together, put tho mixture into a buttered niduld, boil for 1}, hour, and servo with custard sauce, fime.—\h hour. Average cost, \s. Sujficie)it for" 5 or 6 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. 7'.191 THE DICTIONARY OF C00KER7, Marrow-bones, Boiled. • ' MABHOW-BONES, Boiled. Ingredients.—Bones, a small pioco of common paste, a floured cloth. Made.— Have the bones neatly sawed into con- venient sizes, and cover the ends with a email piece of common crust, made with flour and water. Over this tie a floured cloth, and place the bones upright in a saucepan of boiling water, taking care there is sufficient to cover them. Boil them for 2 hours, remove the cloth and paste, and serve them upright on a nap- kin with dry toast. Many persons clear the marrow from the bones after they are cooked, spread it over a slice of tbast and add a seasoning of pepper: ••jwh^ji served in this manner, it must be veiy expeditiously sent to table, as it §o soon gets cold. Time.—2 hours. Seasonable at any time. Note.— Man'ow-bones may bo baked after preparing them as in the pi'cceding - I'ecipo; they should be laid in a deep dish, and baked for 2 hours. • MAHBOW DUMPLINGS, tq serve with Boast Meat, in Soup, with. Salad, &c. (German liccipe.) Ingredients.—1 oz. of beef marrow, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, 2 penny rolls, 1 teaspoonful of minced onion, 1 tea- spoonful of minced parsley, salt and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the marrow and butter together to a cream; well whisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. When. they are well stirred, put in the rolls, which should previously be well soaked in boiling milk, strained, and beaten up with a fork. Add the remaining ingre- dients, omitting the minced onion where the flavour is very much dislik&d, and form the mixture into small round dump- lings. Drop these into boiling broth, and let them simmer for about 20 minutes cr A hour. They may be served in soup, witii roast moat, or with salad, as in Germany, where they are more frequently gent to table than in this country. They nro very good. Time.—20 minutes to fi hour. Avei'age cost, 6d. Svfficie7it for f or 3 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. MABBOW PUDDING-, Baked or Boiled. Ingredients.—pint of bread crumbs, pint of milk, "6 oz. of marrow, 4 eggs, May-Bills of Faro ' I lb. of raisins oi*- currantj, or 2 oj each ; sugar and grated nutmeg to t« Mode.—Make the milk boiling, pom hot on to tho bread crumbs, and lettb remain covdred for about i hour; drj the marrow, beat up the eggs, andl these with the bread crun>bs; adfill remaining ingredients,* beat the mirfi well, and either put it into a biitta moiiltkand boil it forfiA hou^s, or \ n\ into a pie-dish edged with puff-paste, ^ bakorfor rather more than i hour, scQdinglt to table, sift a little'pouncj sugar over, after being turned out of' inoijd or basin. Time.—2i hours ,boil, I hour to bakcj,, \iverage'<;(>st, h.; Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season^ at any time. . » •< . ^ ■. ■ ■ . : .■- itATT-BILLS OF PAEa"* Dinner fpr 18 persons. / y I'irst Course. CO ;2j Aeparagas Soup, removed by Salmon and Lobster Sauce. Vase of Flowers. Ox-tail Soup, removed by Brill & Shrimp Sauce. Entrees. o Si a Lamb Cutlets and Cuciunbers. Vase of Flowers, Teal Eagoi\t. o t s O Second Course. Saddle of Lsmb. o liaised Pie. g Vase of »^ o Flowers. Braised Ilam. Eoast Vetl.195 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. May—Bills of Fare inner for 12 persons. First Course.—White soup; asparagus lup ; salmon cutlets ; boiled turbot and bstei" sauce. Entrees.—Chicken vol- i-vent; lamb cutlets and cucumbers ; icandeau of veal; stewed mushrooms. 'cond Course.—Roast lamb ; haunch of utton; boiled and roast fowls ; vege- bles. Third Course.—Ducklings; gos- igs ; Charlotte Russe ; Vanilla cream ; )oseberry tart; custards ; cheesecakes; binet pudding and iced pudding; des- ri and ices. inner for 10 persons. First Course.—Spring soup ; salmon h. Gen^v^se; red mullet. Entrees.— licken vol-au-vent; calf's liver and icon aux fines herbcs. Second Course. Saddle of mutton; half calf's head, ngue, and brains ; braised ham; aspa- igus. Third Course.—Roast pigeons ; icklings; sponge-cake pudding; Char- tte h. la vanille; gooseberry tart; cream; leesecakes ; apricot-jam tart j dessert idl^es. inner for 8 persons. First Course.—Julienne soup; brill and hater sauce ; fried fillets of mackerel. )t<)ee5.—Lamb cutlets and cucumbers; jbster patties. Second Cowm.—Roast let of veal; boiled leg of lamb; aspa- gU8. Third Cowm.—Ducklings; goose- Jrry tart; custards ; fancy pastry; luffl^; dessert and ices. inner for 6 persons. First C'oMr«e.—Vermicelli soup ; boiled hlmon and anchovy sauce. Entrees.— iUets of beef and tomato sauce; sweet- May, Plain Family Dinners for breads. Second Course.—Roast lamb ; boiled capon ; asparagus. Third Course. —Ducklings; cabinet pudding ; compCto of gooseberries; custards in glasses; blancmange ; lemon tai'tlets; fondue ; dessert. First Course.—Macaroni soup; boiled mackerel h, la maltre d'h6tel; fried * smelts. Entrees.—Scollops of. fowl; lobster pudding. Second Cowrse.—Boiled leg of lamb and spinach; roast sirloin of beef and horseradish sauce ; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast leveret; salad; soufBg of rice ; ramakins; strawberry- jam tartlets; orange jelly; dessert. First Course.—Julienne soup; trout with Dutch sauce; salmon cutlets. En- tries. —Lamb cutlets and mushrooms; Tol-au-vent of chicken. Second Course. —Roast lamb ; calf's head tl la tortue ; vegetables. Third Course. — Spring chickens; iced pudding; Vanilla cream; clear jelly ; tartlets ; cheesecakes ; des- sert. First Course.—Soup klareine; crimped trout and lobster sauce ; baked whitings aux fines herbes. Entries. — Braised mutton cutlets and cucumbers ; stewed pigeons. Second Course.—Roast fillet of veal; bacon-cheek and greens ; fillet of beef h, la jardinifere. Third Course.— Ducklings; soufi9€ k la vanille; comp6t« of oranges ; meringues; gooseberry tart j fondue; dessert. MAY, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—]. Vegetable soup. 2. Saddle of mutton, asparagus and potatoes. 3. Gooseberry tart, custards. Monday.—1. Fried whitings, anchovy sauce. 2. Cold mutton, mashed pota- toes, stewed veal. 3. Fig pudding. Tuesday.—1. Haricot mutton, made from remains of cold mutton, rump- steak pie. 2. Macaroni. Wednesday.—1. Roast loin of veal and spinach, boiled bacon, mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 2. Gooseberry pud- ding and cream. Thursday.—1. Spring soup. 2. Roast leg of lamb, mint sauce, spinach, curried veal and rice. 3. Lemon pudding. Friday.—1. Boiled mackerel and pars- ley-and-butter. 2. Stewed rump-steak, cold lamb and salad. 3. Baked goose- berry pudding. Third Coiirse. Goslinpa, >w J, remored by m « §§ College Puddinga. "o"? §* Ifoycau Jelly. Vase of :s § S 5^ Flowers. .SiS Inlaid Jelly. m 1^2 DucUings, is g ° removed by % p S?. NesEclrode Pudding. ^ to' Dessert and Icea.196 May, Things in Season Saturday.—1. Vermicelli. 2. Rurap- stoiik pudding, lamb cutlets, and cucum- bers. 3. Macaroni. Sunday.—1. Boiled salmon and lobster or caper sauce. 2. Roast lamb, mint sauce, asparagus, potatoes. 3. Plura- pudding, gooseberry tart. Monday.—1. Salmon warmed in re- mains of lobster sauce and garnished with crotltons. 2. Stowed knuckle of veal and rice, cold lamb and dressed cucum- ber. 3. Slices of pudding warmed, and served with sugar sprinkled over. Baked I'ice pudding. Tuesday.—1. Roast ribs of beef, horse- I'adish sauce, Yorkshire pudding, spinach and potatoes. 2. Boiled lemon pud- ding. ^Vednesday.—1. Fried soles, melted butter. 2. Oold beef and di'csseJ cucum- ber or salad, veal cutlets and bacon. 3. Baked plum-pudding. Thursday.—1. Spring soup. 2. Calfs liver and bacon, broiled beef-bones, spinach and potatoes. 3. Gooseberiy tart. Friday.—1. Roast shoulder of mutton, baked potatoes, onion sauce, spinach. 2. Currant dumplings. Saturday.—1. Broiled mackerel, fennel sauce or plain melted butter. 2. Rump- steak pie, hashed mutton, vegetables. 3. Baked arrowroot pudding. MAY, Things in Season, Fish.—Carp, chub, crabs, crayfish, dory, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, red and gray mullet, prawns, salmon, shad, smelts, soles, trout, turbot. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poidlry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, pullets, rabbits. Vegetables.—Asparagus, beans, early cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cresses, cucumbers, lettuces, pease, early pota- toes, salads, sea-kale,—various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, green apricots, cher- ries, currants for tarts, gooseberries, melons, pears, rhubarb, strawberries. MAYOlSriSrAISE, a Sauce or Salad- Dressing lor cold Chicken, Meat, and other cold Dishes. Innrcdient.i.—Tho yolks of 2 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 tablo- BpoonfulH of vinegar, salt and white pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of white BtocK, 2 tablespoonfuls of crepra. Mode, Meringues —Put the yolks of tlie eggs into a basi ' with a seasoning of pepper and salt; ha> ■ ■ ready tho above quantities of oil ai vinegar, in separate vessels; add the ■ very gradually to the eggs; contini stirring and rubbing the mixture with wooden spoon, as herein consists tl ; secret of having a nice smooth eauci It cannot be stirred too frequently, an it should be made in a very cool placi - or, if ice is at hand, it should be mixe over it. When the vinegar and oil ai well incorporated with tho eggs, add tli stock and cream, stirring all tho tim< and it will then be ready for use. For a fish Mayonnaise, this sauce ma be coloured with lobster-spawn, pounded : and for poultry or meat, where variety i. desired, a little parsley-juice may b used to add to its appearance. Cucum ber, tarragon, or any other flavourc ■ vinegar, may be substituted for plain . •-- where they are liked. Average cost, fo ■ this quantity, 7d. Sufficient for a smaLl salad. Note.—Tn mixing the oil and vinega:- with the eggs, put in first a few drops o oil, and then a few drops of vinegaw never adding a large quantity of citbeia at one time. By tliis means, you can bfe more certain of the sauce not curdlingi Patience and practice, let us add, an.T two essentials for making this sauwJ good. MELONS. This fruit is rarely preseiTed or cooker in any way, but is sent whole to table i on a dish garnished with leaves oi i flowers, as fancy dictates. A border o: I any other kind of small fruit, arrangcc I round the melon, has a pretty efiect, J the colour of the former contrasting | nicely with the melon. Plenty _ol | pounded sugar should bo served with it; i and tho fruit should be cut lengthwise, i| in moderate-sized slices. In America, it \ is frequently eaten with pepper and salt 4 Average co5<.—English, in full season, \ 3s. 6rf. to 5j. each ; when scarce, TO*, bo \ 15s.; scfl50?inife, June to August. French, i 2s. to Zs. 6d. each ; seasonable, June and I Julj'. Dutch, M. to 2s. each ; seasonable, i July and August. j MERINGUES. Ingredients.—}, lb. of pounded sngnr, ! tho whites of 4 eggs. Mode.— V\ln^^-< ' the whites of tho eggs to a stiff frotli,THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 197 Meringues ud, with a woodcD spoon, stir in qidchly he pounded sutrar; and have some )oards thick enough to put in the ovea ,0 prevent the bottom of the meringues iom acquiring too much colour. Cut ome strips of paper about 2 inches wide; )lace this paper on the board, and drop k tablespoonful at a time of the mixture >n the paper, taking care to let all the neringues be the same size. In dropping t from the spoon, give the mixture the orm of an egg, and keep the meringues ibout 2 inches apart from each other on ,he paper. Strew over them some sifted lugar, and bake in a moderate oven for i hour. As soon as they begin to colour, •cmove them from the oven ; take each dip of paper by the two ends, an*d turn t gently on the table, and, with a small spoon, take out the soft part of each neringue. Spread some clean paper on ;he board, turn the meringues upside MEBINGUE3. down, and put them into the oven to tiarden and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with whipped cream, flavoured with liqueur or vanilla, and sweetened with pounded sugar. Join two of the meringues toge- ther, and pile them high in the dish, as shown in the annexed drawing. To vary their appearance, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be strewn over them before the sugar is sprinkled over; and they may be garnished with any bright- coloured preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making this sweet dish; as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former melts, and tho mix- ture would run on the paper, instead of keeping its egg-shapo. The sweeter the meringues are made,the crisper will they bo ; but, if there is not sufficient sugar mixed with them, they will most likely be tough. Thoy aro sometimes coloured Milk and Cream, to keep with cochineal; and, if kept well covered in a dry place, will remain good for a month or six weeks. Time.—Altogether, about .3 hour. Average cost, with the cream and flavouring. Is. Sufficient to make 2 dozen meringues. Seasonable at any time. MILK. Milk, when of good quality, is of an opaque white colour : the cream always comes to the top ; the well-known milky odour is strong; it will boil without altering its appearance in these respect^ the little bladders which arise on th& surface will renew themselves if broke^ by the spoon. To boil milk is, in factj the simplest way of testing its quality. The commonest adulterations of milk are not of a hurtful character. It is a good deal thinned with water, and some- times thickened with a little starch, or coloured with yolk of egg, or even ^ saffrou ; but these processes have no- thing murderous in them. MILK AND CREAM, to keep, in hot Weatlier. When the weather is very warm, and it is very diflicult to prevent milk from turning sour and spoiling the cream, it should be scalded, and it will then re- main good for a few hoius. It must on no account be allowed to boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk ; and the slower the process the safer will it be. A very good plan to scald miik, is to put the pan that con- tains it into a saucepan or wide kettle of boiling water. When the surface looks thick, the milk is sufiiciently scalded, and it should then be put away in a cool place in the same vessel that it was scalded in. Cream may be kept for 24 hours, if scalded without sugar ; and by tho addition of the latter ingredient, it will remain good double the time, if kept in a cool place. All pans, jugs, and vessels intended for milk, should be kept beautifully clean, and well scalded before the milk is put in, as any negli- gence in this respect may cause large quantities of it to be spoiled ; and milk shotild never be kept in vessels of zinc or copper. Milk may be preserved good in' hot weather, for a few hours, by placing the jug which contains it in ice, or very cold water; or a pinch of bicarbonate of soda may be introduced into the liquid, 'THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 198 Milk and Cream, Separation of MILK AND CBEAM, Separation of. If it be desirofi that the milk Rhould be freed entirely from cream, it siiould be poured into a veiy shallow broad pan or dish, not, more than U inch deep, as cream cannot rise through" a gieat depth of milk. In cold ami wet weather, milk is not BO rich as it is in summer and warm weather, and the morning's milk is always richer than the evening's. The last-drawn milk of each milking, at all times and seasons, is richer than the first-drawn, and on that account should be set apart for cream. Milk should be shaken as little as possible when carried from the cow to the dairy, and shouM be poured into the pans very gently. Per- sons not keeping cows, may always have a little cream, provided the milk they purchase be pure and unadulterated. As soon as it comes in, it shnuld be poured inio very shallow open pie-dishes, and set by in a very cool place, and in 7 or 8 hours a nice cream should have risen to the surface. MILK AND CREAM, Substitute lor, in Tea and Coffee. Ingredients. — 1 new laid egg to every large bn akiastcupful of tea or coffee. 3Jode.—Beat up the whole of the egg in a basin, put it into a cup, and pour over it the tea or coffee quite hot, stiri ing all the time to prevent the egg from curd- ling. In point of nourishment, both tea and coffee are much improved by this addition. Sufficimt. — 1 egg to every large breaklastcupful of tea or coffee. MILK SOUP (a nice Dish for Children). Jngrtdieiits.—2 quarts of milk, 1 salt- Bpc)onfn] of salt, 1 tiaspoonful of pow- dered cinnamon, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, 4 thin slices of biead, the yolks ol 6 cgtrs. ^Jfide —Boil the milk with the salt, cinnamon, and sugar ; lay the bread in a ileep dish, pour over it a little of the niilk, anil keep it iiot over a stove, w ith- out bui iiing. Beat up the yolks of the egg«, add them to the milk, and stir it o\er the tire till it thickens. Do not let it ciu'dle. Pour it upon the bread, and servo. Time.—^ of an hour. Average cost, 9<l. per quart. Seaso'table oil the year. SuJJititM for 10 childi-on. Mincemeat MINCE PIES. /ngredi'euU.—Good pufT-pasto, mina meat. A/ode.—Mi]<q pome gooil j.uJ paste by recipe ; roll it out to the thicjj ness of about i inch, and line some pood-sized pa 11 y p a n 8 vvith it; fill them with mincemeat. UirCB PIES. cover with the paste, and cut it off aJ round close to the edge of the tin. Pu the pies into a brisk oven, to draw thi paste up, and bake for 25 minutes, o lon:<er, should the pies bo very lar'^o brush them over with the white of''a: eg-r, beaten with the blade of a knife to ) stiff froth ; sprinkle over pounded sugar anit put them into the oven for a minuf or two, to dry the egs ; dish the pit s oi a white d'oyley, and serve hot. Ti-ei may be merely spriiikled wiih poun lec sugar instead of being glazed, when tha' mode is preferred. To re-warm them put the pies on the pattyiians, and Ic them ren)ain in the oven for 10 minute: or I hour, and they will be almost a; good as if fr>-shly made. Time.—2b t< 3 ' minutes; 10 minutes to re-warm th-.-ni. A':erage cost, id. each. Stif}l:ieirt—h i'a. of I ijiste for 4 pies. Seasonable at Christ-: mas time. MINCEMEAT. . Ingredients.—2 Ibg. of raisins, 3 H 'S. ol currants, lA lb. of lean he^, 3 l!'?. of beef suet, '2 lbs. of moist sug u-. 2 oz. of citron, 2 oz. of candied loiuon- eel, 2 oz. of candied orange-peel, 1 i ij* nutmeg, 1 pottle of apples, the r: i i of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, h [lint. of lir luly. Mode.—Stone and ait the raisins o:;i c or twice across, but do not chop ih in; wash, dry, and pick the currant- i"ic9 from stalks and grit, and mince th' ef and suet, taking care that the tor is chopjied very fine ; s'ice the ' and candied pfcl, trrate the 'jutni^ pare, core, and mince tne apples ; \..-:\ce the lemon-peel, strain the juici i. when all the ingredients are ih pared, mi.\ them well together, the brandy when the otiier thin; ~ well blended ; press the whole into > iai"* carefully exclude the air, and the n i' ca* meat will bo ready for use iu a fonni^fafc199 THU DTCTIONAUT OF COOKEHY. Mincemeat, Excellent an additional quantity of spico be pre- \rod, add h teaspoonful of pounded Leo, and tbe'same of pounded allspice, p, however, prefer the mincemeat khout the latter ingredients, and can lich for its excellence. A^'erage cost [•this quantity, 8s. Seasonable.—Make IS about the beginning of December. pNOEMEAT, Excellent. Yn(/rediev(s.—3 large lemons, 3 large blea. 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 1 lb. of frants, 1 lb. of suet, 2 lbs. of mnist par, 1 oz. of sliced candied citron, 1 oz. [sliced candied orange-peel, and the lae quantity ot lemon-peel, 1 teacupfal I brandy, 2 tablespoonfnls of orange Irnialade. Mode.—Grnte the rinds of m lemons ; squeeze out the juice, str iin land boil the remainder of the lemons Kil tender enough to pulp or chop very tly. Then add to this pulp the apples, ■ch should be baked, and their skins |l cores removed ; put in the remaining Iredients one by one, and, as they are Bed, mix everything very thoroughly iether. Put the mincemeat into a ■36 jar with a closely-fitting lid. and in ■ortnight it will be ready for use. Msovafile.—This should be made the lb or second week in December. ■NT S A.UCE, to serve with Koast I Xiatab. mngredients. —. 4 dessertspoonfuls of ■pped mint, 2 dessertspoonfuls of ■ndeil white sugar, ^ pint of vinegar. Mle.—Wiish the mint, which should be lug and fresh-gathered, free from I; pick the leaves from the stalks, ■ce them very fine, and put them into Hreen ; add tlio sugar and vinegar, and I till the fotmer is dissobed. This fte is better by being made 2 or 3 Hrs before wanted for table, as the Hgar then becomes impregnated with ■flavour of the mint. By many per- Uf, the above proportion of sugar would I be considered sufhcieni; but as Hss vary, wo have given the quantity Wkh wo have found to suit the general I to. Average cost, 3d. Sufficient to 8 c. with a middling-sizo joint of lamb. —Where green mint is scarce and itainable, mint vinegar may bo sub- ••.<i for it, and will bo found very a : .table in early spring. Mock Turtle Soup MINT VINEGAR. Ingredients.—Vinegar, mint. Mode, —Procure some nice fresh mint, pick the leaves from the stalks, and fill a bottle or jar with them. Add vinegar to them until the bottle is full ; cover cLonly to exclude the air, and let it inluse for a fortnight. Then strain the liquor, and put it into small bottles for use, of which the corks should be sealed. Seasonable. —This should be made in June, July, or August. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. I. Ingredients.—^ a calfs head, | lb. of butter, ^ lb. of lean ham, 2 tablespoon- fnls of minced parsley, a little minced lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, basil, 2 onions, a few chopped mu-hnioms (when obtainable), 2 shalots, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, \ bottle of Madeira or sheny, force-meat balls, cayenne, salt and mace to taste, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 Seville orange, 1 dessertspoonful of pniindcd sugar, 3 quarts of best stock. Mode.—Scald the head with the skin on, remove the brain, tie the head up in a cloth, and let it boil for 1 hour. Then take the meat from the bones, cut it into small square pieces, and throw them into cold water. Now take the meat, put it into a stewpan, and cover with stock ; let it boil gently for an hour, or rather more, if not quite tender, and set it on one side. Melt the butter in another stewpan, and add the ham, cut small, with the herbs, parsley, onions, shalots, mushrooms, and nearly a pint of stock ; let these simmer slowly for 2 hours, aud then dredge in as much floyr as will dry up the butter. Fill up with t^e remain- der of the stock, add the wine,Tletit stew gently for 10 minutes, rub it through a tamniy, and put it to the calf's head ; season with cayenne, and, if required, a little salt; add the juice of the orange and lemon ; and when liked, ^ teaspoou- ful of poTinded mace, and the sugar. Put in the force-meat balls, simmer 6 minutes, and serve very hot. Time.—' 4A hours. Average cost, 3s. 6d. poi quart, or 2s. Gd. without wine or force-meat balls. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient tor 10 persons. A^ote —The bones of the head should be well stewed in tj^e liquor it yia,s iirst200 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. t Mufflna boiled in, and will mako good white stock, flavoured with vegetables, &c. n. {More Economical.) Itiqredienfs.—A knuckle of veal weigh- ing6 or 6 lbs., 2 cowl.ecls, 2 large onions etuck with cloves, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, salt to taste, 12 peppercorns, 1 glass of sherry, 24 force-meat balls, a little lemon-juice, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Put all the ingredients, except the force-meat balls find lemon-juice, in an earthen jar, and stew for 6 hours. Do not open it till cold. When wanted for use, skim off all the fat, and strain carefully; place it on the fire, cut up the meat into inch-and-a- half squares, put it, with the force-meat 1)alls and lemon-juice, into the soup, and «erve. It can be flavoured with a table- epoonful of anchovy, or Harvey's sauce. Time.—6 hours. Average cost, Is. id. per quart. Seasojialle in viinter. Sufficient for 10 persons. MUFFINS. Ingredients.—To every quart of milk allow 1.3 oz. of German yeast, a little salt; flour. Mode.—Warm the milk, add to it the yeast, and mix these well together; put them into a pan, and stir in sufficient flour to make the whole into a dough of rather a soft consistence; cover it over with a cloth, and place it in a warm place to rise, and, when light and nicely risen, divide the dough into pieces, and round them to the proper shape with the hands ; place them in a layer of flour abou', two inches thick, on wooden trays, and lot them rise again : when this is effected, they each will exhibit a serai-globular shape. Then place them carefully on a hot plate or stove, and bake them until they are slightly browned, tiu'ning them when they are done on one side. Muffins are not easily made, and are more generally jiurchased than manufactured at homo. To toast them, divide the edge of the muffin all round, by pulling it opnii to tlio 'depth of about an inch, with the fingers. Tut it on a toasting-fork-, and hold it before a very clear firo until one ■ide is nicely browned, but not burnt; MUFFINS. Mullagatavray Soup turn, and toast it on the other. Do n( toast them too quickly, as, if this I done, the middle of the muffin will n( bo warmed through. When done, divic them by pulling them open; buttc them slightly on both sides, put thei together again, and cut them inf halves : when sufficient are toasted an buttered, pile them on a very hot disl and send them very quickly to tabk Time.—From 20 minutes to .3 hour \ bake them. Sufficient.—Allow 1 muffi to each person. MULBEBRIES, Preserved. Ingredients.—To 2 lbs. of fruit an 1 pint of juice allow 2i lbs. of loaf sugaj* Mode.—Put some of tTie fruit into a ^VfmSR serving pan, and simmer it gently untl • the juice is well drawn. Strain it throu;? 1 a bag, measure it, and to every pir i allow the above proportion of sugar au , fruit. Put the sugar into the preser pan, moisten it with the juice, boil it] skim well, and then add the mulber which should be ripe, but not soft eno to break to a pulp. Let tJiem stan^ the syrup till warm through, then^ them on the fire to boil gently; wi half done, turn them carefully into earthen pan, and let them remain tilltli next day; then boil them as before, an when the syrup is thick, and become firm when cold, put the preserve pots. In making this, care should taken not to break the mulberries may be avoided by very gentle stir and by simmering the fruit verj- slowlj'^ Time.—I hour to extract the juics \ hour to boil the mulberries V time, I hour the second time. able in August and September. MULLAGATAWZSTY SOUP. ' Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of curr [ powder, 6 onions, 1 clove of garuc, 1 oi ; of pounded almonds, a little ' pickle, or man go-juice, to taste : or rabbit; 4 slices of lean bacon; : of medium stock, or, if want^ good, best stock. Mode.—Slice the onions of a nice colour; 1 stewpan with the bacon; cut rabbit or fowl into small join; slightly brown them; put in the onionf, the garlic, and stoc*-- nnd.'sii gently till the meat is U.i.d"'- , skim carefully, and wlicn the muit is < rub the cffhy powder to a smooth bati h201 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Mullet, Grey dd it to the soup •with the almonds, s-hich must be firet pounded with a little if the stock. Put in seasoning and omou-piekle or mango-juice to taste, and ci-vo boiled rice with it. Time.—2 hours. i^Hffe cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Season- hie in winter. Sufficient for S persons. Note.—This soup can also be made :ith breast of veal, or calf's head. Vege- able mullagatawny is made with veal tock, by boiling and pulping chopped cgetable marrow, cucumbers, onions, nd tomatoes, and seasoning with curry owder and ca3^enne. Nice pieces of leat, good curry powder, and- strong tock, are necessary to make this soup ood. ITJLLET, Grey. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each allon of water. Mode.—If the fish be ery large, it should be laid in cold ater, and gradually brought to a boil; ' small, put it in boiling water, salted 1 the above proportion. Serve with iichovy sauce and plain melted butter, 'me.—According to size, ^ to ^ hour. vcrage cost, Sd. per lb. Seasonable from uly to October, lUIiLET, Ked. Ingredient's.—Oiled paper, thickening I butter and flour, ^ teaspoonful of an- lovy sauce, 1 glass of sherry ; cayenne ad salt to taste. Mode.—Clean the sh, take out the gills, but leave the iside, fold in oiled paper, and bake them sntly. When done, take the liquor that aws from the fish, add a thickening of atter kneaded with flour; put in the ;her ingredients, and let it boil for minutes. Serve the sauce in a tureen, id the fish, cither with or without the iper cases. Time.—About 2o minutes. verage cost. Is. each. Seasonable at ly time, but more plentiful in summer. Note.—Red mullet may be broiled, and lould be folded in oiled paper, the same 1 in the preceding recipe, and seasoned ith pepper and salt. They may bo Wved without sauce ; but if any is re- I ired, use melted butter, Italian or ■hchovy sauce. They should never be ■afn boiled. ■USHROOM KETCHUP. mlngredienis.—To each peck of mush- Bonis i lb, of Bait; to each quart of Musliroom Ketcliup mushroom-liquor ^ oz, of cayenne, ^ oz. of allspice, i oz, of ginger, 2 blades of pounded mace. Mode.—Choose full- grown mushi'oom flaps, and take caro they are perfectly fresh gathered when the weather is tolerably dry ; for, if they are picked dui-ing very heavy rain, the ketchup from which they are made is liable to get musty, and will not kedp long. Put a layer of them in a deep pan, sprinkle salt over them, and then another layer of mushrooms, and so on alter- nately. Let them I'emain for a few hours, when break them up with the hand ; put them in a nice cool place for 3 days, occasionally stirring and mashing them well, to extract from them as much juice as possible. Now measure the quantity of liquor without straining, and to each quart allow the above proportion of sjiices, &c. Put all into a stone jar, cover it up very closely, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, set it over the fire, and let it boil for 3 hours. Have ready a nice clean stewpan ; turn into it the contents of the jar, and let the whole simmer very gently for | hour ; pour it into a jug, where it should stand in a cool place till the nest day; then pour it off into another jug, and strain it into very dry clean bottles, and do not squeeze the mushrooms. To each pint of ketchup add a few drops of brandy. Be careful not to sliake the contents, but leave all the sediment behind in the jug; cork well, and either seal or rosin the cork, so as perfectly to exclude the air. When a very clear bright ketchup is wanted, the liquor must be strained through a very fine hair-sieve, or flannel bag, (i/iferithaa been very gently poured off ; if the opera- tion is not successful, it must be repeated until you have quits a clear liquor. It should bo examined occasionally, and if it is spoiling, should be reboiled with a few peppercorns. Seasonable from the beginning of September to the middle of October, when this ketchup should be made. Note.—This flavouring ingredient, if genuine and well prepared, is one of the most useful store sauces to the experienced cook, and no trouble should be spared in its preparation. Double ketchup is made by reducing the liquor to half the quan- tity ; for e.Kample, 1 quart must be boiled down to 1 pint. This goes fai-thcr than ordinaiy kotchup, as so little is required to flavour a good quantity of gravy.202 mtl-E DTCTIONATIY OF COOKEEt. Mushroom Powder Tho seHimcnt may also be bottled for ini/Dediate use, and will bo found to answer for flavouring thick soups or gravies. MUSHROOM POWDER (a valu- able addition to Sauces and Gravies, when fresh. Mushrooms are not obtainable). Ingredients.—i peck of largo mush- rooms, 2 onions, 12 cloves, ^ oz. of pounded maco, 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper. Mode.—Peel the mushrooms, wipe them perfectly free from piit and dirt, remove the black fur, and reject all those that are at all worm-eaten ; put them into a stewpan with the above ingredients, but without water; shake them over a clear fire, till all tho liquor is dried up, and be careful not to let them burn; arrange them on tins, and dry them in a slow oven ; pound them to a fine powder, which put int9 small di'j/ bottles ; cork well, seal the corks, and keep it in a dry place. In using this powder, add it to the gravy just before serving, when it will merely require one boil-up. The flavour imparted by this means to the gravy, ought to be exceed- ingly good. Seasonable.—This should be Diarie in September, or at the beginning of October. Ifote.—If the bottles in which it is stored away are not perfectly dry, as, also, the mushroom powder, it will keep good but a very short time. MUSHROOM SAUCE, very rich and good, to serve with Fowls or Babbits. Ingredients. — 1 pint of mushroom- buttons, salt to taste, a little grated nut- meg, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, flour to thicken. J/o(/e. —Rub the buttons with a piece of flannel and salt, to take off the skin ; cut off the stalks, and put them in a Btewpan with the above ingredients, previously kneading together the butter and flour; boil tho whole for about ten minutes, stirring all the time. Pour some of tho sauce over the fowls, and the remainder serve in a tureen. Time. —10 minutes. Average cost, 2s. St{fi- dent to servo with a pair of fosvls. Sea- tonulU from August to October. Mushroom Sauce. WJiile MUSHROOM SAUCE, Brown, tO) serve with Roast Meat, &c. Ingredients.—^ pint of button mush- rooms, h pint of good beef gravy, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup (if at hand), thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put the gravy into a saucepan, thicken it, and stir over the fire until it I boils. Prepare tho mushrooms by cuttingj) l_ off tho stalks, and wiping them free fronu grit and dirt; tho large flap mushrooniM cut into small pieces will answer for a . brown sauce, when the buttons are not obtainable; put them intc the gmvy, , and let them simmer very gently for ■ about 10 minutes ; then add the ketchup, , and serve. rtme.—Rather more than. 10 minutes. Seasonable from August to October. Note.—When fresh mushrooms are not obtainable, the powder may be used aa -• a substitute for brown sauco. MUSHROOM SAUCE, White, to serve with Boiled Fowls, Cut-- lets, &c. Ingredients.—Rather more than J pint i of button mushrooms, lemon-juice, and water, 1 oz. of butter, pint of B6cliamel, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode. —Turn the mushrooms wliito by putting them into lemon-juice and water, havi previously cut off the stalks and wipi them perfectly free from arit. Chopi them, and put them in a stewpan witn the butter. When the mushrooiDS are softened, add the Bechamel, and giimuer for about 5 minutes; should they, how- ever, not be done enough, allow rn'''cr more time. They should not boil : than necessary, as they would then their colour and flavour. Rub the whole through a tammy, and servo very ' ' After this, it should be warmed in : marie. Time. — Altogether \ Arerage cost, Is, Seasonable from A to October. MUSHROOM SAUCE, White, to serve with Boiled Fowls, Cut- lets, &c. (a more simple Method). 7«;^rcf//(;;its.—pint of lueltod buttaii made with milk,'pint of button nuish- rooms, 1 dcs.sertspoonful of mushrooBX ketchup, if at hand ; cayenne and salt tO tasto. .1/orfe.—Make the melted butt^ with milk, and add to it tho mushroom^THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Mushrooms, Baked vhich must bo nicely cleaped, and free rom grit, and the stalks cut off. Let ;hem simmer gently for about 10 mi- lutes, or until they are quire tender, 'ut in the seasoning and ketchup ; let I just l)oil, when serve. Time.—Rather nore than 10 minutes. Averagp. cast, \d. Seasonable from August to October. yiirSHROOMS, Baked (a Break., fast, Luncheon, or Supper Dish)^ Ingredients. — 16 to 20 mushroom- laps, butter, popper to tasto. Mode.— or thi- mode of cocking, the mushroom- aps are better than the b\utons, and ihonld not be too large. Cut off a por- ion of the stalk, peel the top, and wipe he mushrooms carefully with a piece of ;innel and a little fine salt. Put them nto a tin hakinir-dish, with a very small )iece of butter placed on each mnsh- oom ; sprinkle over a little pepper, and et them bake for about 20 minutes, or onger should the mushrooms be very arge. Have ready a very hoi dish, pile he mushrooms high in the centre, pour .he gravy round, and send them to table [uickly, with very hot plates. Time.— 0 minutes; large mushrooms, A hour. Iverage cost, Id. each for largo mush- oom-iflaps. Svfjicient for 5 or 6 persons. reasonable, — Meadow mushrooms in leptember and October; cultivated ushrooras may be had at any time. IHTSHROOMS, Broiled (a Break- fast, Luncheon, or Supper Dish). Ingredients.—Mushroom-flaps, pepper ,Tid salt to taste, butter, lemon-juice. [ode. — Cleanse the mushrooms by wiping them with a piece of flannel and alittlesalt; cut ofl a portion of the stalk, and peel the tops ; •roil them over a clear fire, turning BBOILBS MCSn BOOMS. hem once, and arrange them on a very ot dish. Put a small piece of butter on acb mushroom, season with pepper .nd salt, and squeeze over them a few rops of lemon-juice. Place the dish efore the fire, and when the butter is alted, serve very hot and quickly, loderatc-sized flaps are better suited to his mode of cooking than the buttons : lie latter aro better in stows. Time.— 0 Buoutcs for Djcdiuaj-nized mushroums. Mushrooms, to Preserve, Average cost. Id. each for large mush- rooms. Sufficient—AWow 3 or 4 mush- rooms to each person. Seasonable.— Meadow mushrooms in September and October ; cultivated mushrooms may bo had at any time. MUSHROOMS, Dried. Mode.—Wipe them clean, take 8.w!»y the brown p irt, and peel off the skin ; lay them on sheets of paper to dry, in a cool oven, when tliey will shrivel con- siderably. K< ep them in paper bags, which hang in a dry place. When wanted for use, put them into cold gravy, bring them trradually to simmer, and it will he found that they will regaiQ nearly their usual size. MUSHROOMS, Pickled. Ingredients. — Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms ; to each quart ot mushrooms, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 oz. of groimd pepper, salt to taste. Mode. —Choose some nice young button mushrooms for pickling, and rub off the skin with a piece of flannel and salt, and cut off the stalks; if very largo, take out the red inside, and reject the black ones, as they are too old. Put them into a stew- prm, sprinkle salt over them, with pounded mace and pepfier in the above proportion ; shake them well over a clear fire until the liquor flows, and keep them there until they are all dried up again ; then add as much vinegar as will cover them ; just let it simmer for 1 minute, and store it away in stone jars for use. When cold, tie down with bladder and keep in a dry place: they will remain good for a length of time, and are gene- rally considered delicious. Seasonable.— Make this the same time as ketchup, from the beginning of September to the- middle of October. MUSHROOMS, to Preserve. Ingredients.—To each quart of mush» rooms, allow 3 oz. butter, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of 1 lemon, clari- rified butter. Mode.—Fne] the mush- rooms, put them into cold water, with a little loraon-juice ; take them out and dry them very carefully in a cloth. Put the butter into a stewpan capable of holding the mushrooms; when it is melted, add the musln'noms, lemon- juice, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; draw them down over a slow firo, evud let thcia ismaia until thslr Ut^uov ie204 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Muslu'ooms, Stowed boiled away, and tlioy have bocomo quite dry, but bo careful in not allowing them to stick to the bottom of the stewpan. When done, put them into pots, and pour over tho top clarified butter. If wanted for immediate use, they will keep good a few days without being co- vered over. To re-warm them, put the mushrooms into a stdwpan, strain the butter from them, and they will be ready for use. Average cost, Id. each. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in Sep- tember and October; cultivated mush- rooms may bo had at any time. MUSHROOMS, Stewed. Ingredients. — 1 pint mushi-oom-but- tons, 3 oz. of fresh butter, white pepper and salt to taste, lemon-juice, 1 tea- spoonful of flour, cream or milk, ^ tea- spoonfid of grated nutmeg. Mode.—Cut off the ends of the stalks, and pare neatly a pint of mushroom-buttons; put them into a basin of water, with a little lemon juice, as they are done. When all are prepared, take them froni the water with the hands, to avoid the sedi- ment, and jDut them into a stewpan with the fresh butter, white pepper, salt, and the juice of h lemon; cover the pan closely, and let the mushrooms stew gently from 20 to 25 minutes; then thicken the butter with the above pro- portion of flour, add gradually suffi- cient cream, or cream and milk, to make the sauce of a proper consistency, and put in tho grated nutmeg. If tho mushrooms are not perfectly tender, stew them for 5 minutes longer, remove every pavticlo of butter which may be floating on the top, and serve. Time.— ^ hour. Average cost, from 9c?. to 25. per pint. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in Sep- tember and October. MUSHROOMS, Stewed in Gravy. Ingredients.—1 pint of mushroom-but- tons, 1 pint of brown gravy, \ teaspoon- ful of grated nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Make a pint of brown gravy, cut nearly all tho stalks away Irom the mushrooms and peel the tops ; put them into a stewpan, with the gravy, and simmer them gently from 20 minutes to ^ hour. Add tho nutmeg and a scison- ing of cayenne and salt, and servo very hot. Time.—20 minutes to J hour. Average cost, 9d. to 2t. per pint. Sufficient, for 6 Mustard, Tartar or G persons. Seasonable. — Meadow mushrooms in September and October. MUSTARD, How to Mix. Ingredients.—Mustard, salt and water. Mode. — Mustard should bo mixed with water that has been boiled and al- lowed to cool; hot water destroys its essential properties, and raw cold water might cause it to ferment. Put tho mustard into a cup, with a small pinch of salt, and mix with it very gradually suf- ficient boiled water to make it drop from the spoon without being watery. Stir and mix well, and rub the lumps well down with the back of a spoon, as well- mixed mustard should bo perfectly free from these. The mustard-pot should not be more than half-full, or rather less if it will not be used for a day or two, as it is so much better when it is freshly mixed. MUSTARD, Indian, an excellent ReUsh. to Bread and Butter, or any cold Meat. Ingredients.—| lb. of the best mustard, I lb. of flour, A oz. of salt, 4 shalots, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 4 tablespoon- fuls of ketchup, ^ bottle of anchovy sauce. Mode.—Put the mustard, flour, and salt into a basin, and make them into a stiff paste with boiling water. Boil the shalots with the vinegar, ket- chup, and anchovy sauce, for 10 minutes, and pour the whole, boiling, over tha mixture in the basin ; stir well, and re- duce it to a proper thickness ; put It into a bottle, with a bruised shalot at tho bottom, and store away for use. This makes an excellent relish, and if pro* perly prepared will keep for years. MUSTARD, Tartar. Ingredients. —Hoi'seradish vinegar] cayenne, a teacupful of mustard. Model —Have ready sufScient horseradish vine- gar to mix with the above proportion of mustard; put the mustard into a r with a slight seasoning of cayenne ; ; > it perfectly smooth with the viDC!.'a:-, adding this a little at a time ; rub do ■ n with the back of a spoon any lumps 1 may appear, and do not let it be thin. Mustard may bo flavoured various ways, witii Tarragon, sliui i, celery, and many other vinegars, herbs, spices, ^Q,TEE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 205 Mutton SLUT TON. Almost every large city has a parti- Sulai- manner of cutting up, or, as it is ealled, dressing the carcase. In London this process is very simple, and as our butchers have found that much skewer- ing back, doubling one part over another, or scoring the inner cuticle or fell, tends to spoil the meat and shorten the time it would ■ otherwise keep, they avoid all Buch treatment entirely. The carcase •when flayed (which operation is per- formed while yet warm), the sheep when hung up and the head re- moved, pre- sents the profile shown in our cut; the small numerals indicating the parts or joints into which one- half of the animal is cut. After separating the hind from the fore quar- ters, with eleven ribs to the lat- ter, the quart era are usually subd ivided in the man- ner shown in the sketch, in which the aeveral joints aro defined by the inter- vening lines and figures. Hind miarler: No. 1, the leg; 2, the loin —the two, when cut in one piece, being called the saddle. Fore quarter: No. 3, the Bhoulder; 4 and 6 the neck; No. 5 being called, for distinction, the scrag, which is generally afterwards separated from 4, tke lower and better joint; No. 6, the breast. The haunch of mutton, 80 often served at public dinners and Bpecial entertainments, comprises all the leg and so much of tho loin, short of the SXDU OP MTJTTOK, SHOWIKO THE SEVEEAL JOIXTS. Mutton, to cook a Breast of ribs or lap, as is indicated on the upper part of tho carcase by a dotted line. MUTTON, Baked Minced. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— The remains of any joint of cold roast mutton, 1 or 2 onions, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace or nutmeg, , 1 teacupful of gravy, mashed pota- ;^ toes. Mode.—Mince an onion rather i'' fine, and fry it a light-brown colour; add the herbs and mutton, both of which should be also finely minced and well mixed ; season with pepper and salt, and a little iio\mded mace or nutmeg, and moisten with the above proportion of gravy. Put a layer of mashed potatoes at the bottom of a dish, then the mutton, and then another layer of potatoes, and bake for about ^ hour. Time.—\ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable at any time. Note.—If there should be a large quan- tity of meat, use 2 onions instead of 1. MUTTON, Boiled Breast of, and Caper Sauce. Ingredients.—Breast of mutton, bread cnimbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced sa- voury herbs (put a large proportion of parsley), popper and salt to taste. Mode. —Cut off the superfluous fat; bone the meat; sprinkle over a layer of bread crumbs, minced herbs, and seasoning; roll, and bind it up firmly. BoW gently for 2 hours, remove the tape, and serve with caper sauce, a little of -which should bo poured over the meat. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable all the year. MUTTON, an excellent way to cook a Breast of. Ingredients. — Breast of mutton, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, green peas. Mode. — Cut the mutton into pieces about 2 inches square, and let it be tolerably lean ; put it into a stewpan, with a little fat or buttor, and fry it of a nice brown ; then dredge in a little flour, slice tho onions, and put it with the herbs in the stewpan ; pour in sufficient vfater jusl to cover tho meat, and simmer the whole gently until the mutton is tender. Take out the meat, strain, and skim off all the fat from the gi'avy, andTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 20S Mutton, Broiled, and Tomato Sauce put both tho moat and gi-avy back into the stewpan ; add about a quart of young green peas, and lot them boil gently until done. 2 or 3 slices of bacon added and stewed with tho mutton give additional flavour; and, to insure tho peas being a beautiful green colour, they may be boiled in water separately, and added to the stew at the moment of serving. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Juno to August. MUTTON, Broiled, and Tomato Sauce. [Cold Meat Cookebt.] Ingredients.— A fow slices of cold mutton, tomato sauce. Mode. — Cut some nice slices from a cold leg or shoulder of mutton; season them with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire. Make some tomato sauce, pour it over the mutton, and serve. This makes an excellent dish, and must be served very hot. Time. —About 5 minutes to broil the mutton. Seasonable in September and October, when tomatoes are plentiful and seasonable. MUTTOIf BROTH, to Make. Ingredients.—1 lb. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, 1 onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, h turnip, 3 pints of water, pepper and salt to taste. 3Iode.—Put tho mutton into a stewpan ; pour over the water cold, and add the other ingre- dients. When it boils, skim it very carefully, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer very gently for an hour ; strain it, let it cool, take off all the fat from the surface, and warm up as much as may be required, adding, if the patient be allowed to take it, a teaspoon- ful of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Pearl barley or rice are very nice additions to mutton broth, and should be boiled as long as the other ingredients. When either of these is added, tho broth must not bo strained, out merely thoroughly skimmed. Plain mutton broth without seasoning is made by merely boiling the mutton, water, and salt together, straining it, letting the broth cool, skimming all the fat off, and warming up as much as is required. This preparation would bo very tasteless and insipid, but likely to agree with very delicote stomachs, whereas tho least additioa of other ingredients would have Mutton, Log of, to Carve tho contrary effect. Time. — l hour. Average cost, 7d. Sufficient to make from li to 2 pints of broth, SeasoiiaOU at any time. JVote.—Veal broth may be made iu the same manner ; tho knuckle of a ]og, or shoulder is the part usually used for r this purpose. It is very good wiih the' addition of the inferior joints of a fow),. or a few shank-bones. MUTTON BROTH, to Make; Quickly. Ingredients.—1 or 2 chops from a neck: of mutton, 1 pint of water, a small bunch i of sweet herbs, ^ of an onion, pepper: and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the meat; into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan . with the bones, but no skin or fat; add the other ingredients ; cover the sauce- pan, and bring the water quickly to boiL Take the lid off, and continue the rapid . boiling for 20 minutes, skimmmg it well during the process ; strain the broth into a bnsin ; if there should be any fabi left on the surface, remove it by laying a i piece of thin paper on the top ; the ■ greasy particles will adhere to the paper, and so free the preparation from them. To an invalid nothing is more disagree- ■ able than broth served with a quantity ■ of fat floating on the top ; to avoid this, it is always better to allow it to get' thoroughly cool, the fat can then bo so easily removed. Time.—20 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, 5d. Suf- ficicnt to make \ pint of broth. Season* able at any time. | MUTTON, Hauncli of, to Carve. A deep cut should, in the first place, be made quite down to the bone, across the knuckle-end of the joint, along the line 1 to 2. This will let tho gravy escape ; and then it should be carved, in not too thick slices, along the whole BlUKCH OF MCIIOK. length of tho haunch, in tho direction of the Uno from 4 to 3. MUTTON, Leg of, to Carve. This homely, but capital English joint, is almost invariably served at table WTHE DTCTIONAHY OF COOKEEY. 207 Mutton, Loin of, to Carve lEG OP MT31T0S. ihown in the engraving. The carving of it is not very cUfBcult: the knife ihould e < arried sharply down in the iirection of the line from 1 to 2, and slices taken from either side, as the guests may do- sire, some liking the knuckle-end, as well done, and others preferring the more under- done part. The fat should be sought near the line 3 to 4. Some connoisseurs are fond of having this joint dished with the under-side upper- most, so as to get at the finely-grained meat lying under that part of the joint, known as the Pope's eye ; but this is an extravagant fashion, and one that will iardly find favour in the eyes of many economical British housewives and house- keepers. MUTTOlSr, Loin of, to Carve. There is one point in connection with carving a loin of mutton which includes every other ; that is, that the joint shoidd be thoroughly well jointed by the butcher before it is cooked. This knack of jointing re- quires practice and the proper tools; and no one but the butcher is sup- posed to have these. If the bones be not well jointed, the carving of a loin of mutton is not a gracious business ; whereas, if that has been attended to, it is an easy and untroublesome task. The knife should be inserted at fig. 1, and after feeling your way between the bones, it should be carried sharply in the direction of the lino 1 to 2. As there are some people who prefer the outside cut, while others do not like it, the question as to their choice of this should be asked. MUTTON, Saddle of, to Carve. Although we have heard, at various ' intervals, growlings expressed at the inevitable "saddle of mutton" at the dinner-parties of our middle classes, yet we doubt whether any other joint is better liked, when it has been well hung tOIH OP MUTTON. SADDLH OB MTTTIOIT. Mutton Chops, Broiled and artistically cooked. There is a diver- sity of opinion respecting the mode of sending this joint to table; but it has only reference to whether or no there shall bo any portion of the tail, or, if so, how many joints of the tail. Some trim the tail with a paper frill. The carving is not diflBcult: it is usually cut in the direction of the line from 2 to 1, quite down to the bones, in evenly-sliced pieces. A fashion, however, patronized by some, is to carve it obliquely, in the direction of the line from 4 to 3; in which case tho joint would be <iiu"ned round the other way, having the tail end on the right of the carver. MUTTON", Shoulder of, to Carve. This is a joint not difiBcult to carve. The knife should be drawn from the outer edge of the shoulder in the direc- tion of the line from 1 to 2, until the bone of the shoulder is ^ reached. As many slices as can be carved in this manner should be taken, and af- terwards the meat lying on each side of the blade- bone should be served, by carving in the direction of 3 to 4 and 3 to 4. The up- permost side of the shoulder being now finished, the joint should be tm'ned, and slices taken off along its whole length. There are some who prefer this under- side of the shoulder for its juicy flesh, although tho grain of the meat is not so fine as that on the other side. MUTTON CHOPS, Broiled. Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, pepper and salt, a small piece of butter. Alode. —Cut the chops from a well-hung tender loin of mutton, remove a portion of the fat, and trim them into a nice shape; slightly beat and level them ; place the gridiron over a bright clear fire, rub the bars with a little fat, and lay on the chops. Whilst broiling, frequently turn BH0T7LDKB OP lUTTTOir.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 208 Mutton-CoUops them, and in about 8 minutes thoy will be dono. Soason with pepper and salt, dish them on a very hot dish, rub a small piece of butter on each chop, and serve very hot and expeditiously. Time.— About 8 minutes. Average cost, lOrf. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 1 chop to each person. Hetisonahle at any time, MUTTON-COLLOPS. Ingredients.—A few slices of a cold log or loin of mutton, salt and pepper to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs minced very fine, 2 or 3 shalots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, 1 des- sertspoonful of flour, i pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Cut some very thin slices from a leg or the chump end of a loin of mutton ; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, pounded mace, minced savoury herbs, and minced sha- lot; fry th^m in butter, stir in a dessert- spoonful of flour, add the gravy and lemon-juice, simmer very gently about 5 or 7 minutes, and sei've immediately. Time.—5 to 7 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. MUTTOlSr, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of any joint of cold mut- ton, 2 onions, ^ lb, of butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of curry-powder, 1 dessert- epoonful of flour, salt to taste, \ pint of stock or water. Mode.—Slice the onions in thin rings, and put them into a stew- pan with the butter, and fry of a light brown; stir in the curry-powder, flour, and salt, and mix all together. Cut the moat into nice thin slices (if there is not sufficient to do this, it may be minced), and add it to the other ingredients; when well browned, add the stock or gravy, and stew gently for about ^ hour. Serve in a dish with a border of boiled rice, the same as for other curries. Time. —h hour. Average cost, exclusive of the moat, 6d. Seasonable in winter. MUTTON CUTLETS, with Mash- ed Potatoes. Ingredients.—Ahont 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton, salt and pep- per to taste, mashed potatoes. 3Iode.— Procure a well-hung neck of mutton, saw oflF about 3 inches of the top of the bones, nnd cut tho cutlets of a moderate thick- Mutton, Haricot nass. Shape them by chopping off tho thick part of tho chine-bone; beat them flat with a cutlet-chopper, and scrape quite clean, a portion of tho top of the MTJTTOK CDTLET8. bone. Broil them over a nice clear fire for about 7 or 8 minutes, and turn them frequently. Have ready some smoothly- mashed white potatoes; place these in the middle of the dish; when the cut- lets are done, season with pepper and salt; arrange them round the potatoes, with the thick end of the cutlets down- wards, and serve very hot and quickly. Time.—7 or 8 minutes. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s. id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. JYote>—Cutlets may be served in va- rious ways; with peas, tomatoes, onions, sauce piquant, &c. MUTTON, Braised Fillet of, with French Beans. Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of mutton, buttered paper, French beans, a little glaze, 1 pint of gravy. Mode.— Roll up the mutton in a piece of buttered paper, roast it for 2 hours, and do not allow it to acquire the least colour. Have ready some French beans, boiled, and drained on a sieve; remove the paper from the mutton, glaze it; just heat up the beans in the gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. The remainder of the gravy may be strained, and sent to table in a tureen. Time.— 2 hours. Average cost, Shd. perlh. Suffi- cient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Haricot. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of the middle or best end of the neck of mutton, 3 car- rots, 3 turnips, 3 onions, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup or Harvey's sauce. Mode.—Trim off some of tho fat, cut the mutton into rather thin chops, and put them into a frying-pan with tho fat trimmings. Fry of a palo brown, but do not cook them enough for eating. Cut the carroU andTHE DICTIONARy OP COOKERY. 209 Mutton, Haricot tiirnipa into dice, and the onions into slices, and slightly fry them in the same fat that the mutton was browned in, but do not allow them to take any colour. Now lay the mutton at the bottom of a stewpan, then the vegetables, and pour over them just sufBcient boiling water to cover the whole. Give the boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently until the meat is tender. Skim off every particle of fat, add a seasoning of p ^pper and salt, and a little ketchup, and serve. This dish is very much better if made the day before it is wanted for table, as the fat can be so much more easily removed when the gravy is cold. This should be particularly attended to, as it is apt to be rich and greasy if eaten the same day it is made. It should be served in rather a deep dish. Time.—2^ hours to simmer gently. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. MUTTON, Haricot. Ingredients.—Breast or scrag of mut- ton, flour, pepper, and salt to taste, 1 large onion, 3 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 blade of mace, carrots and tur- nips, sugar. Mode.—Cnt the mutton into square pieces, and fry them a nice colour; then dredge over them a little flour and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Put all into a stewpan, and moisten with boiling water, adding the onion, stuck with 3 cloves, the mace, and herbs. Simmer gently till the meat is done, skim off all the fat, and then add the carrots and turnips, which should be previously cut in dice and fried in a little sugar to colour them. Let the whole simmer again for 10 minutes ; take out the onion and bunch of herbs, and serve. Time.— About 3 hours to simmer. Average cost, per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTOW, Haricot. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold neck or loin of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 des- sertspoonful of flour, .1 pint of good gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine, 1 tablcspoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery. Mode.—C\xt the cold mutton into moderate-sized chops, and Mutton, Roast Haunch of take off the fat; slice the onions, and fry them with the chops, in a little butter, of a nice brown colour ; stir in the flour, add the gravy, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In the mean time boil the vegetables until nearly tender, slice them, and add them to the mutton about ^ hour before it is to be served. Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup and port wine, give one boil, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON", Hashed. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast shoulder or leg of mutton, 6 whole pep- pers, 6 whole allspice, a faggot of savoury herbs, ^ head of celery, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, flour. Mode.—Cut the meat in nice even slices from the bones, trim- ming off all superfluous fat and gristle; chop the bones and fragments of the joints, put them into a stewpan with the pepper, spice, herbs, and celery; cover with water, and simmer for 1 hour. Slice and fry the onion of a nice pale- brown colour, dredge in a little flour to make it thick, and add this to the bones, &c. Stew for \ hour, strain the gravy, and let it cool; then skim off every par- ticle of fat, and put it, with the meat, into a stewpan. Flavour with ketchup, Harvey's sauce, tomato sauce, or any flavouring that may be preferred, and let the meat gradually warm through, but not boil, or it will harden. To hash meat properly, it should be laid in cold gravy, and only left on the fire just long enough to warm through. Time.— Ih hour to simmer the gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Koast Haunch of. Ingredients. — Haunch of mutton, a little salt, Hour. Modc—J^Qt this joint hang as long as possible without becom- HATTirCH OP injTToir. iug tainted, and while hanging dust flour over it, which keeps off the flies, and prevents the air from gettiug to it. IfTHE DTCTTONAUY OF COOKERY. 210 Mutton, Boiled Log of not well lump, the joint, when it comes to table, will do credit neither to the butcher nor the cook, as it will not bo tcndor. Wash the outside well, lest it should ha\c a bad flavour from keeping; then flour it and put it down to a nice brisk fire, at some distance, so that it may gradually warm through. Keep continually basting, and about h hour before it is served, draw it nearer to the fire to get nicely brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, pour off the dripping, add a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Place a paper ruche on the bone, and send red-currant jelly and gravy in a tureen to table with it. Time.—About 4 hours. Average cost, IQd. pev lb. SicJJi- cient for 8 to 10 persons. Seasonable.— In best season from September to March. MUTTOIsr, Boiled Leg of. Ingredients. — Mutton, water, salt. Mode.—A log of mutton for boiling should not hang too long, as it will not look a good colour when dressed. Cut off the Bhank-bone, trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean ; plunge it into sufficient boiling water to cover it; let it boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire,, where it should re- main till the finger can be borne in the water. Then place it sufficiently near the fire, that the water may gently simmer, and be very careful that it does not boil fast, or the meat will be hard. Skim well, add a little salt, and in about 2i hours after the wnter begins to sim- mer, a moderate-sized leg of mutton will be done. Serve with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce to table with it in a tureen. Time.—A moderate-sized leg of mutton of 9 lbs., 2;J hours after the water boils; one of 12 lbs., 3 hours. Average cost, 8.^d. per lb. Sufficient.— A moderate-sized leg of mutton for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonahle nearly all the year, but not so good in Juno, July, and August. ^Voie.—When meat is liked very tlio- ronqidy cooked, allow more time than Btated above. The liquor this joint was boiled in should bo converted into soup. MUTTON", iJoned Leg of, Stuffed. Ingredients.—A. small leg of mutton, weigliiDg 6 or 7 lbs., forcemeat, 2 sholots Mutton, Boast Leg of finely minced. Mode.—Make a force* meat, to which add 2 finely-minced sha- lots. Bone the leg of mutton, without spoiling the skin, and cut off a great deal of the fat. Fill the hole up whence the bone was taken with the forcemeat, and sew it up underneath, to prevent its falling out. Bind and tie it up com- pactly, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about 2^ hours or rather longer; remove the tape and send it to table with a good gravy. It may be glazed or not, as preferred. Time.—2i hours, or rather longer. Average cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTOW, Braised Leg of. Ingredients.—1 small leg of mutton, 4 carrots, 3 onions, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a bunch of parsley, seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, a few slices of bacon, a few veal trimmings, h pint of gravy or water. Mode.—Line the bot- tom of a braising-pan with a few slices of bacon, put in the carrots, onions, herbs, parsley, and seasoning, and over these place the mutton. Cover the whole with a few more slices of bacon and the veal trimmings, pour in the gravy or water, and stew very gently for 4 hours. Strain the gravy, reduce it to a glaze over a sharp fii-o, glaze the mut- ton with it, and send it to table, placed on a dish of white haricot beaus boiled tender, or garnished with glazed onions. Time.—i hours. Average cost, 5s. Svffi- cient for C or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Roast Leg of. Ingredients.—Leg of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—A.s mutton, when freshly killed, is never tender, hang it almost as lEQ OF UUTTOS'. long as it will keep ; flour it, and put U in a cool airv place for a few days, if the weather will permit. Wash off the flour, wipe it very dry, and cut oiT theTHE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 211 Mutton, Boast Loia of shank-borie ; put it dowu to a brisk clear fire, dredge with flour, and keep con- tinually basting the whole time it is cookiug. About 20 minutes before serving, draw it near tlio fire to get nicely brown ; sprinkle over it a little salt, dish the meat, pour off the dripping, add some boiling water slightly salted, strain it over the joint, and serve. Time. —A leg of mutton weighing 10 lbs., about 2+ or 2^ hours ; one of 7 lbs., about 2 houi-s, or rather less. Average cost, 8r,d. per lb. Sufficient.—A mode- rate-sized leg of mutton sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time, but not so good ia June, July, and August. MUTTOTT, Hoast lioin of. Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—Cut and trim off the super- fluous fat, and see that the butcher joints tour OF MUTTOK. the meat properly, as thereby much annoyance is saved to the carver, when it comes to table. Have ready a nice clear fire (it need not be a very wide large one), put down the meat, dredge with Qour, and baste well until it is done. Make the gravy as for roast log of mut- ton, and serve very hot. Time.—A loin of mutton weighing 6 lbs., 1.^ hoiu-, or rather li>n(,'er. Average cost, per lb. Sujficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, BoUed Jjoin of (very Excellent). Ingredients.—Ahont 6 lbs. of a loin of mutton, h teaspoonful of pepper, .f tea- spoonful of pounded allspice, ^ teaspoon- ful of mace, ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg, 6 cloves, forcemeat, 1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Hang tho mutton till tender, bone it, and sprinkle over it pepper, mace, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg in the above proportion, all of which must bo Sounded very fine. Let it remain for a ayi then make a forcemeat, cover the Mutton, Bagout of cold Neck of meat with it, and roll and bind it up firmly. Half bake it in a slow oven, let it grow cold, take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan ; flour the meat, put it in the gravy, and stew it till per- fectly tender. Now take out the meat, unbind it, add to the gravy wine and ketchup as above, give one boil, and pour over the meat. Serve with red- currant jelly ; and, if obtainable, a few mushrooms stewed for a few minutes in the gravy, will be found a great improve- ment. Time.—Ih hour to bake the meat, 1^ hour to stew gently. Average cost, 4s. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This joint will be found very nice if rolled and stufied, as here directed, and plainly roasted. It should be well basted, and served with a good gravy and currant jelly. MUTTOK", Boiled Ueck'of. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of the middle, or best end of the neck of mutton ; a little wait. Mode.—Trim off a portion of the fat, should there be too much, and if it is to look particularly nice, the chine- bone should bo sawn down, the ribs stripped half-way down, and the ends of the bones chopped off; this is, however, not necessary. Put the meat into suffi- cient boiling water to cover it; when it boils, add a little salt and remove all the scum. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the water get so cool tliat the finger may be borne in it; then sim- mer very slotvlij and gently until the meat is done, which will be in about \ h hour, or rather more, reckoning from the time that it begins to simmer. Serve with turnips and caper sauce, and pour a little of it over the meat. The turnii'S should be boiled with the mutton ; and when at hand, a few carrots will also be found an improvement. These, however, if very large and thick, must be cut into long thinnish pieces, or they will not be sdfli- ciently done by the time the mutton is ready. Garnish the dish with carrots and turnips, placed alternately round the mutton. Time.—4 lbs. of .the neck of mutton, about \\ hour. Average cost, 8.^d per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Bagout of Cold Neck of. rcoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of a cold neck or loin oi212 TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Mutton, Hoast Neck of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, a little flour, 2 onions sliced, A pint of water, 2 small carrots, 2 turnips, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the mutton into small chops, and trim off the greater portion of the fat; put the butter into a stew- pan, dredge in a little flour, add the sliced onions, and keep stirring till brown; then put in the meat. When this is quite brown, add the water, and the carrots and turnips, which should be cut into very thin slices; season with pepper and salt, and stew till quite ten- der, which will be in about -J howv. When in season, green peas may be substituted for the carrots and turnips: they should be piled in the centre of the dish, and the chops laid round. Time.—f hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Ad. Seasonable, with peas, from June to August. MUTTON, Roast Neck of. Ingredients.—Neck of mutton ; a little Bait. Mode.—For roasting, choose the middle, or the best end, of the neck of mutton, and if there is a very large pro- portion of fat, trim off some of it, and NECK or MTJTTOir. 1—2, Bed end. 2—3. Scrag, save it for making into suet puddings, which will be found exceedingly good. Let the bones bo cut short, and see that it is properly jointed before it is laid down to the fire, as they will bo more easily separated when they come to table. Place the joint at a nice brisk fire, dredge it with flour, and keep continually bast- ing until done. A few minutes before serving, draw it nearer the fire to acquire a nice colour, sprinkle over it a little salt, pour off the dripping, add a little boiling water slightly salted ; strain this over the meat and servo. Kcd-currant jelly may be sent to table with it. Time. —4 lbs. of the neck of mutton, rather more than 1 hf^^.-. Average cost, 8.^d. per lb. Stifficlenl for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Mutton Pudding MUTTON PIE. rCoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of a cold leg, loin, or neck of mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of poun (led mace, 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced savoury herbs; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; 3 or 4 potatoes, 1 teacupful of gravy; crust. Mode.—Cold mutton may be made into very good pies if well seasoned and mixed with a few herbs ; if the leg is used, cut it into very thin slices; if the loin or neck, into thin cutlets. Place some at the bottom of the dish ; season well with pepper, salt, mace, parsley, and herbs; then put a layer of potatoes sliced, then more mutton, and so on till the dish is full; add the gravy, cover with a crust, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of an underdone leg of mutton may be converted into a very good family pudding, by cutting the meat into slices, and putting them into a basin lined with a suet crust. It should be seasoned well with pepper, salt, and minced shalot, covered with a crust, and boiled for about three hours. MUTTON PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of the neck or loin of mutton, weighed after being boned ; 2 kidneys, pepper and salt to taste, 2 teacupfuls of gravy or water, 2 table- spoonfuls of minced parsley; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; puff crust. Mode.—Bone the mutton, and cut the meat into steaks all of the same thickness, and leave but very little fat. Cut up the kidneys, and arrange these with the meat neatly in a pie-dish; sprinkle over them the minced parsley and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour in the gravy, and cover with a tolerably good puff crust. Bake for 1^ hour, or rather longer, should the pie be very large, and let the oven be rather brisk. A well-made suet crust may bo used instead of puff cnist, and will be found exceedingly good. Time.—lA hour, or rather longer. Avei-age. cost, 2s. Suffi- cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON PUDDING. Ingredients. —About 2 lbs. of the chump end of the loia of mutton, weighed afterTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 213 Mutton, Hoast Saddle of being boned; pepper and salt to taste, Biiet crust made with milk, in the propor- tion of G oz. of suet to each pound of flour; a very small quantity of minced onion (this may be omiLted when the flavour is not liked). Mode.—Cut the meat into rather thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt; line the pudding-dish with crust; lay in the meat, and nearly, but do not quite, fill it up with water; when the flavour is liked, add a small quantity of minced onion ; cover with crust, and proceed in the same manner as directed in recipe for rump steak and kidney pudding. Time. —About 3 hours. Average cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. MUTTON, Hoast Saddle of. Ingredients.—Saddle of mutton; a little salt. Mode.—'To insure this joint being tender, let it hang for ten days or a fort- night, if the weather permits. Cut off the tail and flaps, and trim away every BASSLB OF MUTTorr, part that has not indisputable preten- sions to be eaten, and have the skin taken off and skewered on again. Put it down to a bright, clear fire, and, when the joint has been cooking for an hour, remove the skin and dredge it with flour. It should not be placed too near the fire, as the fat should not be in the slightest degree burnt, but kept con- stantly basted, both before and after the skin is removed. Sprinkle some salt over the joint; make a little gravy in the dripping-pan ; pour it over the meat, which send to table with a tureen of made gravy and red-currant jelly. Time. —A saddle of mutton weighing 10 lbs., 2J hours; 14 lbs., 3;^ hours. When liked underdone, allow rather loss time. Ave- rage cost, \M. per lb. Sufficient.— A moderate-sized saddle of 10 lbs. for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year; not so good when lawb is ip full BeasoD, Mutton Soup, Good MTTTTOW, Roast Shoulder of. Ingredients. —Shoulder of mutton ; a little salt. Mode.—Put the joint down to a bright, clear fire ; flour it well, and keep continually basting. About ^ hour before serving, draw it near the fire, that BH0UI.DEB or MUTTON. the outside may acquire a nice brown colour, but not sufiiciently near to blacken the fat. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meai,, empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, are usually sent to table with this dish, and sometimes baked potatoes. Tivie.—A shouldei jl mutton weighing 6 or 7 lbs., 1^ hour. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Shoulder of mutton may be dressed in a variety of ways; boiled, and served with onion sauce; boned, and stuffed with a good veal forcemeat; or baked, with sliced potatoes in the dripping.^an. MUTTON SOUP, Good. Ingredients.—A neck of mutton about 5 or 6 lbs., 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; salt and pepper to taste ; a little sherry, if liked ; 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Lay the ingredients in a covered pan before the fire, and let them remain there the whole day, stirring occasionally. The next day put the whole into a stew- pan, and place it on a brisk fire. When it commences to boil, take the pan ofif the fire, and put it on one side to simmer until the meat is done. When ready for use, take out the meat, dish it up with carrots and turnips, and send it to table; strain the soup, let it cool, skim off all the fat, season and thicken it with a tablespoonful, or rather more, of arrow- root ; flavour with a little sherry, simmer for 5 minutes, and servo. Time. — 15 hours. Average cost, including the2U THE DICTIONARy OP COOKERY. Nasturtiums, Pickled meat, 3'/. pei* quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. NASTURTIUMS, Pickled (a very good Substitute for Capers), Ingredients.—To each piut of vinegar, 1 oz. of salt, 6 peppercorns, nastiirlinrns. Mode.—Gather the nasturtium pods on a dry day, and wipe them clean with a cloth ; put them in a dry gla^s bottle, with vinegar, salt, and pepper, in the above proportion. If you cannot find enough ripe to fill a bottle, cork up what you have got until you have some more tit; they may be added from day to day. Bung up the bottles, and seal or rosin the tops. They will be fit for use in 10 or 12 months ; and the best way is to make them one season for tuo next. Seasonable.—Look for nasturtiam-pods from the end of July to the end of August. NECTARIlSrES, Preserved. Ingredients.— To every lb. of sugar allow \ pint of water; nectarines. Mode. —Divide the nectarines in two, take out the stones, and make a strong syrup with sugar and water in the above proportion. Put in the nectarines, and boil them until they have thoroughly imbibed the sugar. Keep the fruit as whole as pos- sible, and turn it carefully into a pan. The next day boil it again for a few mi- nutes, tako out the nectarines, put them into jars, boil the syrup quickly for five minutes, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, cover the preserve down. The syrup and preserve must be carefully skimmed, or it will not bo clear. Time. —10 minufes to boil the sugar and water; 20 minutes to boil the fruit the first time, 10 niinutes the second time ; 5 minutes to bon 'he syrup. Seasonable in August and SoiM^embcr, but cheapest in Sep- tember. NECTAn, Welsli. Ingredients.—\ lb. of raisins, 3 lemons, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 gallons of boiling •water. Mode. — Cut the peel of the lemons very thin, pour upon it the boil- ing wafer, and, wiien cool, add the strained jiiico of the lemons, the sugar, and the raisins, stoned and chopped very fino. Let it stand 4 or 5 days, stirring It every day ; then strain it through a November—Bills of Fare jelly-bag, and bottle it for present use Tme.—4 or 5 days. Average cost, Is. 9d Sufficient to make 2 gallons. NEGUS, to make. Ingredients. — To every pint of port wine allow 1 quart of boiling water, \ lb. of sugar, 1 lemon, grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—As this beverage is mi)re usually drunk at children's parties than at any other, the wine need not be very old or expensive for the purpose, a new fruity wine answering very well for it. Pn> the wine into a jug, rub some lumps of sjcgar (equal to \ lb. )oDtheleni'>n-rind .until all the yellow part of the skin is absorbed, then squeeze the juice, and strain it. Add the sugar and lemon- juice to the port-wine, with the grated nutmeg ; pour over it the boiling water, cover the jug, and, when the beverage has cooled a little, it will be fit for use. Negus may also be made of sherry, or any other sweet white wine, but is more usually made of port than of any other beverage. Sufficient.—Allow 1 pint of wine, with the other ingredients in pro- portion, for a party of 9 or 10 children. NOVEMBER-BILIiS OP PAKE Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. a Pi d Thick Grouso Soup, remoTed by Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce. Vase of Flowers. Clear Ox-tail Soup, removed by Fillets of Turbot h. la Crcme. S CO •c Entries. Ul o Povdet h, la Marengo. V«8e of Flowers. Mublirooms sauti??. 3 <3 e K215 ffiE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUY. November—Bills of Fare Second Course. Haunch of Mutton. Cold Game Pie. t-i ns a S; 5* w Vase of Flowers, Boiled Ham. Boiled Turkey and Celery Sauce. at o P4 Third Courie. "S. p hi o O 3 a 2 Partridges, removed by Plum-pudding. Wine Jelly. Vase of Flowers. -t ^ Blancmange. Snipes, removed by Charlotte glac^e. a . o o ,£3 3 <1 Dessert and Ices. Dinner for 12 persons. First Cotirse. — Haro soup; Julienne soup ; baked cod ; soles hi Normandie. E)drees. -\\\z do veau aux tomates ; lob- ster patties ; mutton cutlets and Soubise sauce ; crodtades of marrow aux fines herbes. Second Coitj-se. —Roast sirluin of beef; braised goose ; boiled fowls and celery sauce; bacon-check, garnished with sprouts. Third Course. —Wild ducks; partridges ; apples la IVrtngaise ; Ba- varian cream ; apricot-jam sandwiches ; cheesecakes; Charlotte k la vanille; plum-pudding ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course. — Mulligatawny soup ; fried slices of codfish and oyster sauce ; eels en matelote. Enireei. — Broiled pork cutlets and tomato sauce ; tendrons de veau h. la jardiniere. Second Courie. November, Plain Family Dinners —Boiled leg of mutton and vegetables; roast goose; cold game pie. Coitm.—Snipes; teal; apple souffle; iced Charlotte; tartlets, jhampagne jelly ; coffee cream ; mince pies; dessert and ices. Dinners for 6 persons. First CoMJ-se.—Oyster soup ; crimped cod and oyster sauce; fried perch and Dutch sauce. £n<recs.—Pigs' feet li la Bechamel; curried rabbit. Second Coicrse. — Koast sucking-pig; boiled fowls and oyster sauce ; vegetables. Third Course. —Jugged hare ; meringues h, la crfirae; a|iplo custard; vol-au-vent of pears; whipped cream ; cabinet pudding ; dessert. First Coiirse.—Game soup ; slices of codfish and Dutcb sauce; fried eels. Entrees.—Kidneys h.\a Maltre d'Botel; oyster patties. Second Course.—Saddle of mutton ; boiled capon and rice ; small ham ; lark pudding. Third Course.— Roast hare; apple tart; pineapple cream ; clear jelly ; cheesecakes ; mar- row pudding; Nessebrode pudding; dessert. NOVEMBEB, Plain Family Din- ners for. Sunday.—1. White soup. 2. Roast haunch of mutton, haricot beans, po- tatoes. 3. Apple tart, ginger pud- ding. Monday.—1. Stewed eels. 2. Veal cutlets garnished with rolled bacon : cold mutton aud wiuter salad. 3. Bakeo rice pudding. Tttesday.— 1. Roast fowls, garnished with wiiter-cresses ; boiled bacon-cheek ; hashed mutton from remains of haunch. 2. A]iple pudding. Wednesday.—1. Boiled leg of pork, carrots, parsnips, and pease-pndding; fowl croquettes made with remainder of cold fowl. 2. Baroness pudding. Thursday. — 1. Cold pork and maslied potatoes; roast partridges, broad sauce and gravy. 2. The remainder of the pudding cut into neat slices, and warmed through, and served with sifted s\igar sprinkled over; apple fritters.THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. November—Things in Season Friday.—1. Roast haro, gravy, and currant jelly ; rump-stoak and oyster- sauco ; vogotablcs. 2. Macaroni. Saturday.—1. Jugged hare ; small mutton pudding. 2. Fig pudding. Sunday.—1. Crimped cod and oyster Bauce. 2. Roast fowls, small boiled ham, vegetables; rump-steak pie. 3. Baked apple pudding, open jam tart. Monday. — 1. The remainder of cod warmed in maltro .d'hOtel sauce. 2. Boiled aitchbone of beef, carrots, par- snips, suet dumplings, 3. Baked bread- and-butter pudding. Tuesday.—1. Pea-soup made from li- quor in which beef was boiled. 2. Cold beef, mashed potatoes ; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Carrot pud- ding. Wednesday.—1. Fried soles, melted butter, 2. Roast leg of jjork, apple sauce, vegetables, 3. Macaroni with Parmesan cheese, Thursday, —1. Bubble-and-squeak from remains of cold beef; curried pork. 2. Baked Semolina pudding. Friday.—1. Roast leg of mutton, stewed Spanish onions, potatoes. 2. Apple tart. Saturday,—1. Hashed mutton ; boiled rabbit and onion sauce"; vegetables. 2. Damson pudding made with bottled fruit. NOVEMBER, Tilings in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp, cod, crabs, eels, gudgeons, haddocks, oysters, pike, soles, tench, turbot, whiting. Meat. — Beef, mutton, veal, doe Tenison. Poultry.—Chickens, fowls, gecso,larks, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, turkeys, widgeons, wild-duck. Game.—Hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks. Vegetables.— Beetroot, cabbages, car- rots, celery, lettuces, late cucumbers, onions, potatoes, salading, spinach, sprouts—various herbs, Fndt.—Apples, bullaccs, chestnuts, filberts, grapes, pears, walnuts. November—Bills of Pare NOVEMBER-BILLS OF PARE FOR A GAME DINNER. Dinner for 30 persons. First Course. CD s. o a Hare Soup, Vase of flowers. Soup a la Beine. o 09 -.-> a a Entries. Fillets of Hare Cm "o o o ~ 9 05 3 en CheTreuil, CD t-i Ferdriz aa Chouz. a o '•2 -.-J Vase ot a a* o c pj Flowers. a. 5' Curried Babbits. Gam Imi of idgeon. §-1 Fillet of Pheasant c o and Trullles. Second Course, O 3 • hi Larded Pheasants. Leveret, larded and Btulfed. Vase of Flowers. Grouse. Larded Partridges. o rr- ° ^1 Third Course. m Pintails, •5' CD U Quails. Ortoh Vase of c o oo, P " Flowers, Teal. c be Snipes gs ("TP. Woodcocks.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 217 Noyeau Cream Entremets and Removes. Apric Tart Boudin a la Nesselrode. lids of mour. • o 00 Q Dantzio Jelly. %t « s p • Vase of Flowers. VD O 03 g5 o1 • (0 o Charlotte Eusse, o •oij ids of nour. Plum-pudding. o <! O Dessert. o 9. 5' era ^3 Btrawberry-Ice Cream. Pineapples. Grapes. Pears. Vase of Flowers. Apples. Grapes. Pears. Lemon-Water Ice. PS to "St, n 03 Tl . O o NOYEAU CREAM. Ingredients.—Ih oz, of isinglass, the juice of 2 lemons, noyeau and pounded suj^r to taste, pint of cream. Mode. —Dissolve the is'inglas.'! in a little boiling water, add the Icmon-iuico, and strain this to tho cream, putting in sufficient noyeau and sugar to flavour and sweeten the mixture nicely; whisk tho cream •well, put it into an oiled mould, and set the mould in ice or in a cool place ; turn it out, and garnish tho dish to taste, jTme. —- / Itogether, ^ hour. Averafje cost, with cream at Is. per jiint and the best isinglass, 4s. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. ScasonabU at any time. October—Bills of Pare NOYEAU, Home-made. Ingredients.—2 oz. of bitter almonds, 1 oz. of sweet ditto, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the riiids of 3 lemons, 1 quart of Irish whiskey or gin, 1 tablespoonful of cla- rified honey, ^ pint of new milk. Mode —Blanch and pound the almonds, and mix with them the sugar, which should also be pounded. Boil the milk; let it stand till quite cold; then mix all the ingredients together, and let them re- main for 10 days, shaking them every day. Filter the mixture through blot- ting-paper, bottle off for use in small bottles, and seal the corks down. This will be found useful for flavouring many sweet dishes. A tablespoonful of tho above noyeau, added to a pint of boiled custard instead of brandy as given in our recipe for custai'd, makes an exceed- ingly agreeable and delicate flavour. Average cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient to make about 2^ pints of noyeau. Seasonable,— May be made at any time. OCTOBEE-BILIiS OF FARE. Dimier for 18 persons. Fi7-st Course, m 5* a a Mock-Turtle Soup, removed by Crimred Cod and Oyster Sauce, Vase of Flowers, Julienne Sovjp, reicoved by J(; t;ti I'oiy and Dutch B&U03. Entrees, Sweetbreads and Tomato Sauce. Vase of Flowersi Fricandcau do Veau and Celery Sauce, i o u A m 0218 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. October-Bills of Fare Second Course, Eoast Sadillo of Mutton. o Grouse Pie. a . 03 O g Vase of Q o Flowera. a n3 "J o m <-* CD Ham. SO Larded Turkey. Dinner for 12 persons. i^mi Course.—Carrot soup kla Cr&i; soup ^ la Reiue ; bakerl cod ; stewed eels. Entrees. — Kiss de Veau and tomato sauce; vol-au-vent of chicken; pork cutlets and sauce Robert; grilled mush- rooms. Second Course.—Rump of beef k la jardiniere ; roast goose ; boiled fowls ari'l celery sauce ; tunguo, garnished ; vegetables. Third Course. — Grouse ; pheasants; quince jellj'; lemon cream; apple tart; compOto of pouches; Nes- selrode pu<lding ; cabinet pudding; scal- loped oysters ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persona. First Course. — Calf's - head soup ; crimped cod and oyster sauce ; stowed eels. ErdrSes.—Stewed mutton Iddiicys; curried sweetbreads. Second Course.— Boiled leg of mutton, garnished with carrots and turnips ; roast goose. Third Co«w.—Partridges ; fruit jelly ; Italian cream ; vol-au-vent of pears ; apjjle tart; cabinet pivdding; deeaert and ices. October—Bills of Fare Dinners for 6 persons. First Course. — Hare soup ; broiled cod k la Maitre d'llOtel. Haddocks and egg sauce. Entrees.—Veal cutletw, gar- nished with Frtnch beans; haricot mutton. Second C'o2<)-«e.—Roast haunch of mutton ; boiled capon and rice ; vege- tables. Third Course. — Pheasants ; punch jelly ; blancmange ; apples k la Portugaise; Charlotte k la Vanille; mar- row pudding; dessert. First Course.—Mock-turtle soup ; brill and lobster sauce ; fried whitings. En- tries.—Fowl k la Bdchamel; oyster pat- ties. Second Course. —Roast sucking-pig ; stewed rump of beef k la jardiuifere; vegetables. Third Course. — Grouse ; Charlotte aux porames; cofiFee cream; cheesecakes; apricot tart; iced pudding; dessert. OCTOBER, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Roast sucking-pig, tomato sauce and brain sauce ; small boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, turnij>s, aud carrots. 2. Damson tart, boiled batter pudding. Motiday.—1. Vegetable soup, mado from liquor that mutton was boiled in, 2. Sucking-pig en blamjuctte, small meat pie, French beans, and potatoes. 3. Pudding, pies. Tuesday. — 1. Roast partridges, bread sauce, and gravy; slices of mutton warmed in caper sauce; vegetables. 2. Baked plum-pudding. Wednesday.—1. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, vegetable marrow, and potatoes. 2. Damson pudding. Thursday.—1. Fried soles, melted butter. 2. Cold beef and salad ; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Carrot soup. 2. Bv>iled fowls and celery sauce; bacon-cheek, garnished with greens; beef rissoles, from remains of cold beef. 3. Bai-oness pudding. Saturday.—1. Curried fowl, from re- mains of cold ditto; dish of rice, i-ump- Btcak-and-kidnoy pudding, vegetables. 2. Stewed pears and sponge cakes. Sunday.—1. Crimped cod and oyster sauce. 2. Roast haunch of mutton, brown onion sauce, and vegetables. 3. BuUace pudding, baked custards in cups. Third Course. O Pheasanta, remoied by g ^ Cabinet Pudding. g _ Italian Cream. •tJS ° . B S" Vase of .-g a It* B § Flowera. £-2 a- a Qj ^; S- • o Peach Jelly. O § gJ Boast Hare, o removed by g- P" Iced Pudding. <^ iJessert and Icea.219 -J^fitJ DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. October, Things in Season. Monday.—'i. The remains of codfish, flaked, and warmod in a maitre d'hStel sauce. 2. Cold mutton and salad, veal cutlets and rolled bacon, French beuns and potatoes. 3. Arrowroot blancmange and stewed damsons. Tuesday.—1. Roast hare, gravy, and red-currciut jelly ; hashed mutton, vege- tables. 2. Currant dumplings. Wednesday. — 1. Jugged hare, from remains of roast ditto ; boiled knuckle of veal and rice; boiled bacon cheek. 2. Apple pudding. Tkursday.—1. Roast leg of pork, apple sauce, greens, and potatoes. 2. llice snowballs. Friday.—1. Slices of pork, broiled, and tomato sauce, mashed potatoes; roast pheasants, bread sauce, and gravy. 2. Baked apple pudding. Saturday.—1. Rump-steak pie, sweet- breads. 2. Ginger pudding. OCTOBEB, Things in Season. Fis/i —Biu'bel, brill, cod, crabs, eels, flounders, guilgeons, haddocks, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate, soles, tench, turbot, whiting. Meat. — Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Poultry.—Chickens, fowls, geese, larks, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, turkeys, widg(^ons, wild ducks. Oame. — Blackcock, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks, doe veiiis'in. Veyetables. — Artichokes, beets, cab- bages, cauliflowers, carrots, celery, let- tuces, mushrooms, onions, potatoes, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows, — various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, black and white bul- laces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, pears, quinces, walnuts. OMELET. Ingredients. —6 eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, ^ saltspoonful of pepper, \ lb. of butter. J/(/c/e. —Break the eggs into a basin, omitting the whites of 3, and boat them up with the salt and pepper until extremely liglit ; then adil 2 oz. of the butter broken into small pieces, and Btir this into the mixture. Put the other OMELBI, Omelet, the Cure's 2 oz. of butter into a frying-pan, make it quite hot, and, as soon as it begins to bubble, whisk the eggs, &c., very briskly for a minute or two, and pour them into the pan ; stir the omelet with a spoim one way until the mixture thickens and be- comes firm, and when the whole is set, fold the edges over, so that the omelet assumes an oval form; and when it is nicely brown on one siile, and quiie firm, it is done. To take off the rawness on the upper side, hold the pan before the tire for a minute or two, and brown it with a salamander or hot shovel. Serve very expeditiously on a very hot dish, and never cook until it is just wanted. The flavour of this omelet may be very much enhanced by adding minced pars- ley, minced onion or eschalot, or grated cheese, allowing 1 tablespoonful of the former, and half the quantity of the latter, to the above pruportion of eggs. Shrimps or oysters may also be added: the latter should be scalded in their liquor, and then bearded and cut into small pieces. In making an omelet, be particularly carel'ul that it is not too thin, and, to avoid this, do not make it in too large a frying-pan, as the mi.Mure would then spread too much, and taste of the outside. It should also not bo greasy, burnt, or too much done, and should be cooked over a gentle fire, that the whole of the substance may be heated without drying up the outsirie. Omelets are sometimes served with gravy ; but this should never be poured over them, but served in a tureen, as the liquid causes the omelet to become heavy and fiat, instead of eating light and soft. la making the gravy, the flavour should not overpower that of the omelet, and should be thickened with arrowroot or rice flour. I'ime.—With 6 eggs, in a frying-pan 18 or 20 inches round, 4 to 6 minutes. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. OMELET, The Cure's, or Omelette au Thon. Ingredients.—Take for 6 persons, the roes of 2 carp ;* bleach them, by putting them, for 6 minutes, in boiling water • An American writer says he has followed this recipe, substituting pike, shad, &o., iu tho place of carp, and can recommend all these also, with a quiet oonaoienoe. Any fish, indeed, maj be used with auccess.TIID DIOTIONAHY OF COOKER?. 220 Omelette aux Confitures Biightly salted; a picco of fresh tunny tho size of a hen's egg, to which add a small ehalot already choiipod; hash up together the roe and the tunny, so as to mix them well, and throw the whole into a sauce- pan, with a sufiicient quantity of very good butter : whip it up until the butter is molted! This constitutes tho specialty of the omelet. Take a second piece of butter, d discrkion, mix it with parsley and herbs, place it in a long-shaped dish destined to receive the omelet; squeeze the juicG of a lemon over it, and i^lace it on hot embers. Beat up 12 eggs (the fresher the better); throw up the saut6 of roe and tunny, stirring it so as to mix all well together ; then make your omelet in the usual manner, endeavoui-ing to turn it out long, thick, and soft. Spread it carefully on the dish prepared for it, and serve at once. This dish ought to be reserved for recherche ddjetiners, or for assemblies where amateurs meet who know how to eat well: washed down with a good old wine, it will work wonders. Note.—The roe and the tunny must be beaten up (saut€) without allowing them to boil, to prevent their hardening, which would prevent them mixing well with the eggs. Your dish should be hollowed towards the centre, to allow the gi-avy to concentrate, that it may be helped with a spoon. The dish ought to be slightly heated, otherwise the cold china will extract all the heat from the omelet. OMELETTE AUX COWFI- TUBES, or Jam Omelet. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of apricot, strawberry, or any jam that may be preferred. Mode.—Make an omelet, only instead of doubling it over, leave it flat in the lina. When quite firm, and nicely brown on one side, turn it carefully on to a hot dish, spread over the middle of it the jam, and fold the omelet over on each side ; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve very quickly. A i^retty dish of small omelets may be made by dividing tlie batter into 3 or 4 portions, and frying them separately; they should then be spread each one with a different kind of preserve, and tho omelets rolled over. Always sprinkle sweet omelets with sifted sugar before being sent to table. Time,~i to 6 minutes. Average cost, Omelette Souffl§ Is. 2d. »SM/(«'e;i< for 4 persons, Season^ able at any time. OMELET, Bachelor's, Ingredients.—2 or 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of fiour, h teacupful of milk. Mode.—yisiko a thin cream of the flour and milk; then beat up tho eggs, mix all together, and add a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, and, when very hot, pour in tlie batter. Let the pan remain for a few minutes over a clear fire ; then sprinkle upon the omelet some chopped herbs and a few shreds of onion ; double the omelet dex- terously, and shake it out of the pan on to a hot dish. A simple sweet omelet can be made by the same process, sub- stituting sugar or preserve for the chopped herbs. Time. — 2 minutes. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient for 2 per- sons. Seasonable at any time. OMELET, Plain Sweet. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 ox, of butter, 2 oz. of sifted sugar. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin, omitting the whites of 3 ; whisk them well, adding the sugar and 2 oz. of the butter, which should be broken into small pieces, and stir all these ingredients well together. Make the remainder of the butter quite hot itt a small frying-pan, and when it com- mences to bubble, pour in the eggs, kc Keep stirring them until they begiu to set; then turn the edges of the omelet over, to make it an oval shape, and finish cooking it. To brown the top, hold tha pan before the fire, or use a salamander, and turn it carefully on to a very hot dish; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes. Ave7-age cost, lOd. Sufficient for 4 per« sons. Seasonable at any time. OMELETTE SOUFFLE. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 5 oz. of jjoundod sugar, flavouriug of vanilla, orange-flour water, or lemon-rind, 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of rice-flour. Mode. —Separate tho yolks from tho whites of the eggs, add to the former the sugar, the rice-flour, and either of tho above flavourings thiit may be preferred, and stir these ingredients well together. Whip the whites of the eggs, mix them221 Onion Sauce, Brown lightly with the batter, and put the butter into a small frying-pan. As soon _ as it begins to bubble, pour the batter " into it, and set the pan over a bright but gentle fire ; and when the omelet is set, turu the edges over to make it an oval shape, and slip it on to a silver dish, which has been previously well buttered. Put it in the oven, and bake from 12 to 15 minutes; sprinkle finely-powdered sugar over the souffl€, and serve it ivinie- diately. Time.—About 4 minutes in the pan; to bake, from 12 to 15 minutes. Average cost, Is. Snfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. ONIOTT SAUCE, Brown. Ingredients.—6 large onions, rather more than ^ pint of good gravy, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mode. —Slice and fry the onions of a pale brown in a stewpan, with the above quantity of butter, keeping them well Btirred, that they do not get black. When a nice colour, pour over the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender. Now skim off every particle of fat, add the seasoning, and rub the whole through a tammy or sieve ; put it back into the saucepan to wai-m, and when it boils, serve. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Sea- tonahle from August to March. _ Note.—Where a Ligii flavouring is liked, add 1 tablespoonfal of mushroom ketchup, or a small quantity of port wine. OITION SAUCE, French, or Sou- bise. Ingredients. — I pint of Bechamel, 1 bay-leaf, seasoning to taste of pounded mace and cayenne, 6 onions, a small piece of ham. Mode.—Peel the onions and cut them in halves; put them into a stewpan, with just sufficient water to cover them, and add the bayleaf, ham, cayenne, and mace ; bo careful to keep the lid closely shut, and simmer them until tender. Take them out and drain thoroughly ; rub them through a tammy or sieve (an old one does for the purpose) with a wooden spoon, and put them to ^ pint of Bechamel; keep stirring over the fire until it boils, when sei-ve. If it should require any more seasoning, add it to taste. Time.—% hour to boil tho onion.s. Average cost, IM. for this Onion Soup quantity. Stifficient for a moderato-sized dish. ONION SAUCE, White, for BoUed Rabbits, Boast Shoulder of Mutton, &c. Ingredients.—9 large onions, or 12 mid- dling-sized ones, 1 pint of melted butter made with milk, h teaspoonful of salt, or rather more. Mode.—Peel the onions and put them into water to which a little salt has been added, to preserve their whiteness, and let them remain for ^ hour. ThoH put them into a stewpan, cover them with water, and let them boil until ten- der, and, if the onions should be very strong, change the water after they have been boiling for ^ hour. Drain them thoroughly, chop them, and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Make 1 pint of melted butter with milk, and when that boils, put In the onions, with a seasoning of salt; stir it till it simmers, when it will be ready to serve. If these directions are carefully attended to, this onion sauce will be delicious. Time.— From ^ to 1 hour, to boil the onions. A verage cost, 9d. per pint. Sufficient to serve with a roast shoulder of mutton, or boiled rabbit. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—To make this sauce very mild and delicate, use Spanish onions, which can be procured from the beginning of September to Christmas. 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of cream added just before serving, will be found to improve its appearance very much. Small onions, when very young, may be cooked whole, and served in melted butter. A sieve or tammy should be kept expressly for onions: an old one answers the purpose, as it is liable to retain the flavour and smell, which of course would be oxcea- sively disagreeable in delicate prepara- tions. ONION SOUP. Ingredients.—6 large onions, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, h pint of cream, 1 quart of stock. Mode. — Chop tho onions, put them in the butter, stir them occasionally, but do not let them brown. When tender, put the stock to them, and season; strain the soup, and add the boiling cream. Titne.— hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Sea- sonable in winter. Siifficient for 4 per- sons,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 222 Onion Soup, Cheap ONION SOUP, Cheap. Ingredients.—8 mid(lling-sizod onions, 3 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of rice- flour, salt and pepper to taste, 1 toa- Bpoonful of powdered sugar, thickening of butter and flour, 2 quarts of water. Uode.—Cut the onions small, put them into the stewpan with the butter, and fiy them well; mix the rico-flour smoothly with the water, add the onions, seasoning, and sugar, and simmer till tender. Thicken with butter and flour, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, id. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sv^cient for 8 persons. ONIONS, Bxirnt, for Gravies. Ingredients.—| lb. of onions, h pint of water, h lb. of moist sugar, J^'piut of vinegar." Mock.—Peel and chop the onions tine, and put them into a stewpan (not tinned), with the water; let them boil for 5 minutes, then add the sugar, and simmer gently until the mixture becomes nearly black and throws out bubbles of smoke. Have ready the above proportion of boiling vinegar, strain the liquor gradually to 't, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon until it is well incorporated. When cold, bottle for use. Time.—Altogether^ 1 hour, ONIONS, Pickled (a very simple Method, and exceedingly Good). Ivgredients.—Pickling onions ; toe,ach quart of vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of all- spice, 2 teaspoonfuls of whole black pepper. Mode.—Have the onions gathered when quite dry and ripe, and, with the fingers, take off the thin outside skin; then, with a silver knife (steel should not be used, as it spoils the colour of the onions), remove one more skill, when the onion will look quite clear. Have ready some very dry bottles or jars, and as fast as they are peeled, put them in. Pour over sufficient cold vinegar to cover them, with pepper and allspice in the above proportions, taking care that each jar has its share of the latter ingredients. Tie down with blad- der, and put them in a dry place, and in a fortnight they will be flt for use. This is a most simple recipe and very deli- cious, the onions being nice and crisp. They should be oaten within 6 or 8 months aftor being done, as the onions are liable to becomo soft. Seasonable Onions, Pickled from the middle of July to tLe end of August. ONIONS, Pickled. Ingredients.— 1 gallon of pickling onions, salt and water, milk; to each J gallon of vinegar, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, } tablespoonful of cayenne, 1 oz. of all- spice, 1 oz. of whole black pepper, i oz. of whole nutmeg bruised, 8 cluves, | oz. of mace. Mode.—Gather the onions, v^hich should not be too small, when they are quite dry and ripe; wipe off the dirt, but do not pare them; make a strong solution of salt and water, into which put the onions, and change this, morning and night, for 3 days, and save the last brine they were put in. Then take the outside skin oft", and put them into a tin sauce- pan capable of holding them all, as they are always better done together. Now take equal quantities of milk and the last salt and water the onions were in, and pour this to them ; to this add 2 large spoonfuls of salt, put them over the fire, and watch them very attentively. Keep constantly turning the onions about with a wooden skimmer, those at the bottom to the top, and vice vertd; and let the milk and water run through the holes of the skimmer. Eemember, the onions must never boil, or, if they do, they will be good for nothing; and they should be quite transparent. Keep the onions stirred for a few minutes, and, in stirring them, be particular not to break them. Then have ready a pan with a colander, into which turn the onions to drain, covering them with a cloth to keep in tbn steam. Place on a table an old cloth. - or 3 times double ; put the onions on it when quite hot, and over them an old piero of blanket; cover this closely over tlie:n, to keep in the steam. Let them reniaiu till the next day, whenthej' will be quito cold, and look yellow and shrivelled ; take oflF the shrivelled skins, when they sbould be as white as snow. Put them into a pan, make a pickle of vinegar and the remain- ing ingredients, boil all these up, and pour hot over the onions in the pan. Cover very closely to keep in all the steam, and let them stand till the follow- ing day, when they will bo quito cold. Put them into jars or bottles well bun>;cd, and a tablespoonful of the best olive-oil on the top of each jar or bottle. Tie them down with bladder, and let them stand iu a cool place for a mouth or six223 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Onions, Spanish, Baked [veeks, when thoy will be fit for use. rhey should be beautifully white, and eat ci-isp, without the least softness, and will keep good many months. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of A.ugust. ONIONS, Spanish, Baked. Ingredients.—4 or 5 Spanish onions, salt, and water. il/ofZe.—Put the onions, with their skins on, into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and let them boil quickly for an hour. Then take them out, wipe them thoroughly, wrap each one in a piece of paper separately, and bake them in a moderate oven for 2 hours, or longer, should the onions be very large. They may be served in their skins, and eaten with a piece of cold butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt; or they may be peeled, and a good brown gravy poured over them. Time.—1 hour to boil, 2 hours to bake. Average cost, medium-sized, 2d. each. <SM_^'c('e?i< for 5or 6 persons. Sea- tonahle from September to January. ONIONS, Spanish, Pickled. Ingredients.— Onions, vinegar ; salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the onions in thin slices; put a layer of them in the bottom of a jar ; sprinkle with salt and cayenne ; then add another layer of onions, and season as before. Proceeding in this manner till the jar is full, pour in suflBcient vinegar to cover the whole, and the pickle will be fit for use in a month. Seasonable.—May be had in England from September to February. ONIONS, Spanish, Stewed, Ingredients.—5 or 6 Spanish onions, 1 pint of good broth or gravy. Mode.— Peel the onions, taking caro not to cut away too much of the tops or tails, or thoy would then fall to pieces; put them into a stewpan capable of holding them at the bottom without piling them one on the top of another; add the broth or gravy, and simmer very gentUi until the onions are perfectly tender. Dish them, pour tho gravy round, and serve. Instead ^ of using broth, Spanish onions may be jwed with a large piece of butter : they Mst bo done very gradually over a slow 0 or hot-plate, and will produce plenty gravy. Time.—To stew in gravj', 2 i'lrsj or longer if very large. Averaqe I Orange Cream cost, medium-sized, Id. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to January. Note.—Stewed Spanish onions are a favourite accompaniment to roast shoulder of mutton, ORANGE BRANDY. (ExceUent.) Ingredients.—To every h gallon of brandyallow| pintof Seville orange-juice, 1^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—To bring out the full flavour of the orange-peel, rub a few lumps of the sugar on 2 or 3 un- pared oranges, and put these lumps to the rest. Mix the brandy with the orange- juice, strained, the rinds of 6 of the oranges pared very thin, and the sugar. Let all stand in a closely-covered jar for about 3 days, stirring it 3 or 4 times a day. When clear, it should be bottled and closely corked for a year; it will then be ready for use, but will keep any length of time. This is a most excellent stomachic when taken pure in small quan- tities ; or, as the strength of the brandy is very little deteriorated by the other ingredients, it may be diluted with water. Time.—To be stirred every day for 3 days. Average cost. Is. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. Seasonable.—Make this in March. ORANGE CREAM. Ingredients.—1 oz. of isinglass, 6 large oranges, 1 lemon, sugar to taste, water, ^ pint of good Qream. J/ocfe.—Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon; strain it, and put it into a saucepan with the isinglass, and sufficient water to make it in all 1^ pint. Rub the sugar on the orange and lemon-rind, add it to the other ingredients, and boil all toge- ther for about 10 minutes. Strain OPEN MOULD. through a muslin bag, and, waen cold, beat up with it h pint of thick cream. Wet a mould, or soak it in cold water; pour in the cream, and put it in a cool place to set. If tho weather is very cold.THE DICTIONARY OP COOKEET 224 Orange Creams 1 oz. of isinglass will bo found sufficient for the above proportion of ingrerUonts. Time.—10 minutes to boil the juice and water. Average cost, with the best isin- glass, 3a. Sxiffident to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May, ORANGE CREAMS. Ingredients.—1 Seville orange, 1 table- spoonful of brandy, I lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream. Mode.—Boil the rind of the Seville orange until tender, and beat it in a mortar to a pulp; add to it the brandy, the strained juice of the orange, and the sugar, and beat all together for about 10 minutes, adding the well-beaten yolks of eggs. Bring the cream to the boiling- point, and pour it very gradually to the other ingredients, and beat the mixture till nearly cold ; put it into custard-cups, place the cups in a deep dish of boiling water, where let them remain till quite cold. Take the cups out of the water, wipe them, and garnish the tops of the creams with candied orange-peel or pre- served chips. Time.—Altogether, \ hour. Average cost, with cream at \s. per pint. Is. id. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 creams. Seasonable from November to May. Note.—To render this dish more eco- nomical, substitute milk for the cream, but add a small pinch of isinglass to make the creams firm. ORANGE FRITTERS. Ingredients.—For the batter, .J lb. of flour, i oz. of butter, h saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, oranges, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Make a nice light batter with the above proportion of flour, butter, salt, eggs, and sufficient milk to make it the proper consistency; peel the oranges, remove as much of the white skin as possible, and divide each orange into eight pieces, without break- ing tho thin skin, unless it be to remove the pips; dip each piece of orange in the batter. Have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping; drop in tho oranges, and fry them a delicate brown from 8 to 10 minutes. When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to drain away tho greasy moist- ure, and dish them ou a white d'oyloy ; spriuklo over them plenty of pounded sugar, and serve quickly. Ttwie.—8 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 5 minutes Orange Jelly to drain them. Avtrage cost, M. Svf. ficient for 4 or 5 perwons, SeatonabU from November to May. ORANGE GRAVY, for Wildfowl,, Widgeon, Teal, &c. Ingredients.—}, pint of white stock, 1 small onion, 8 or 4 strips of lemon or - orange peel, a few leaves of basil, if at hand, the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, salt and pepper to taste, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Put the onion, cut in slices, into a stewpan with the stock, orange-peel, and basil, and let them simmer very gently for \ hour or rather longer, should the gravy not taste sufficiently of the pcd. Strain it off, and add to the gra^y the remaining ingredients ; let the wi o\e heat through, and, when on the point of boiling, serve very hot in a tureen which should have a cover to it. Tme.—Altogether \ hour. Sufficient for a small tureen. ORANGE JELLY. Ingredients.—1 pint of water, li to 2 oz. of isinglass, h lb. of loaf suerar, 1 Seville orange, 1 lemon, about 9 Chioa oranges. Mode.—Put tho water into a saucepan, with the isinglass, sugar, and the rind of 1 orange, and the same of ^ lemon, and stir these over tho fire until OPBir MOULD, the isinglass is dissolved, and remove the scum ; then add to this the juice of the Seville orange, the juice of the lemon, and suflicient juice of China oranges to make in all 1 pint: from S W 10 oranges will yield the desired qviati" tity. Stir all together over the fire until it is just on the point of boiling; skim well; thon strain the jelly through a very fine sieve or jclly-bag, and wlion nearly cold, put it into a mould j^ro- viously wetted, and, when quite set, turn it out ou a dish, and garnish it to taste. To insure this jelly being clear,225 <« - r I '» Orange Marmalade the orange- and lemon-juice should be well strained, and the isinglass clarified, before they are added to the other ingre- dients, and, to heighten the colour, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added. Time.—5 minutes to boil with- out the juice; 1 minute after it is added. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 3s. Sii. Svficient to iill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May. OEANGE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fine loaf gugar and Seville oranges ; to 12 oranges allow 1 pint of water. Mode.—Let there DO an equal weight of loaf sugar and Seville oranges, and allow the above proportion of water to every dozen oranges. Peel them carefully, remove a little of the white pith, and boil the rinds In water 2 hours, changing the water three times to take off a little of tho .bitter taste. Break the pulp into small pieces, take out all the pips, and cut the boiled rind into chips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water; boil this well, skim it, and, when clear, put in the pulp and chips. Boil all together from 20 minutes to i hour; pour it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with blad- ders or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. The juice and grated rind of 2 lemons to every dozen of oranges, added with the pulp and chijis to the syrup, aro a very great improvement to this marmalade. Time.—I hours to boil the orange-rinds; 10 minutes to boil tho syi'up ; 20 minutes to h hour to boil the marmahide. Average cost, from (id. to Sd. per lb. pot. Season- able.—This should be made in March or Ajiril, as Seville oranges aro then in perfection. lOBANGE MABMAIiADE. Ingredients.—Equal weight of Seville oranges and sugar ; to every lb. of sugar '!ow h pint of water, jifoile.—Weigh : sugar and oranges, scoro the skin ')ss, and take it off in quarters. Boil -c quarters in a muslin bag in water il they aro quite soft, and tlioy can [.ierced easily with tho head of a pin ; then cut them into chips about 1 inch I fic, and as thin as possible. Should !0 be a great deal of white stringy ) Jj), remove it before cutting the rind < into chips. Split open the oranges, f i. I Orange Marmalade scrape out the best part of the pulp, with the juice, rejecting the white pith and pips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water ; boil it until clear; then put in the chips, pulp, and juice, and boil the marmalade from 20 minutes to ?, houi', removing all the scum as it rises. In boiling the syrup, clear it carefully from scum before the oranges are added to it. Time.—2 hours to boil the rinds, 10 K.inates the synip, 20 minutes to h hour the marmalade. Average cost, 6d. to Sd. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in March or April, when Seville oranges are in perfection. ORANGE MARMALADE, an easy way of Making. Ingredients.—To every lb, of pulp allow Ig lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Choose "some fine Seville oranges ; put them whole into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew them until they become perfectly tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times ; drain them, take off the lind, remove the pips from the pulp, weigh it, and to every lb. allow In of loaf sugar and h pint of the water the oranges were last boiled in. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 mi- nutes ; put in the p\i\p, boil for another 10 minutes ; then add the peel cut into strips, and boil the marmalade for another 10 minutes, which completes the process. Pour it into jars ; let it cool; then cover down with bladders, or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Time.—2 hours to boil tho oranges ; altogether h hour to boil the marmalade. Average cost, from G(^. to 8d. per lb. pot. Seasonable.— Make this in March or April. ORAISTGE MARMALADE, made with. Honey. Ingredients.—To 1 quart of the juice and pulp of Seville oranges allow 1 lb. of tho rind, 2 lbs. of honey. Mode.—Peel the oranges, and boil the rind in water until tender, and cut it into strips. Tiike away the pips from the juice and pulp, and put it with the honey and chips into a preserving-pan ; boil aU together for about j hour, or until the marmalade is of the proper consistency ; put it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with bladders. T'iJHC.—2 hours lo boil tho rind, hour the marmalade. 8THE DICTIONAllY OF COOKEllY. 226 Orange Marmalado, Pounded Averaffe cost, from 7d. to M. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Mako this in March or April. OBANGE MARMALADE, Pounded. Ingredients.—Weight and J in sugar to every lb. of oranges. Mode.—Cut some clear Seville oranges in 4 pieces, put all the juice and pulp into a basin, and take out the seeds and skins ; boil the rinds in hard water till tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times while boiling; drain them well, and pound them in a mortar; then put them into a pre- serving-pan with the juice and pulp, and their weight and h of sugar; boil rather more than ^ an hour. Time.—About 2 hours to boil the rinds, ^ an hour the marmalade. OBANGE PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients. — 6 oz. of stale sponge cake or bruised ratafias, 6 oranges, 1 pint of milk, 6 eggs, ^ lb. of sugar. Mode.— Binaise the sjponge cake or ratafias into fine crumbs, and pour upon them the milk, which should be boiling. Rub the rinds of 2 of the oranges on sugar, and add this, with the juice of the remainder, to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, stir them in, sweeten to taste, and put the mixture into a pie-dish pre- viously lined with pufF-paste. Bake for rather more than ^ hour; turn it out of the dish, sti*ew sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—Eatber more than ^ hour. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from November to May. ORANGE PUDDING, SevHle. Ingredients.—4 Seville oi-anges, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 12 almonds, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, 8 eggs. Mode.—Boil the oranges and chop them finely, taking out all the pips. Put the butter, tbo almonds, blanched and chopped, and Iho sugar, into a saucepan, to which add the orange pulp and the lemon-juice. Put it on a hot plate to warm, mixing all together until the but- ter is thoroughly molted. Turn the mixture out, let it get cold, then add the eggs, which should be well whipped. Put all into a balcing-disb, bordered with puff paste, and balce from j hour to 40 minutes, according to Iho heat of the Grange "Wine oven. Titiie.—i hour to 40 minutes Seasonable from November to ilay. ORANGE SALAD. Ingred.ienls.—6 oranges, | lb. of mu:, catel raisins, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, tablespoon fuls of brandy. Mode.—Pee 5 of the oranges; divide them into slice without breaking the pulp, and arrange them on a glass dish. Stone the raisins mix them with the sugar and brandy, anc mingle them with the oranges. Squeez' the juice of the other orange over th' whole, and the dish is ready for table A little pounded spice may be put ii when the flavour is liked; but this ingre dient must be added very sparingly Ava-age cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or ' persons. Seasonable from November t , May. ORANGE WINE, a very Simpl.,: and Easy Method of Making : i very Superior. Ingredients.—90 Seville oranges, 3 : lbs. of lump sugar, water. Mode. — Break up the sugai" into small pieces, am put it into a dry, sweet, 9-gallon cask placed in a cellar or other storehouse where it is intended to be kept. Hav . ready close to the cask two large pans o i wooden keelers, into one of vrhich pu ' the peel of the oranges pared quite thin and into the other the pulp after th': juice has been squeezed from it. Straii: the juico through a piece of double mus lin, and put into the cask with the sugar Then pour about \h gallon of co!. sirring water on both the peels and th pulp ; let it stand for 24 hours, and the: strain it into the cask ; add more wate i to the peels and pulp when this is done and repeat the same process every da ; for a week : it should take about a wee!: to fill up the cask. Be careful to appoi tion the quantity as nearly as possibl to the seven days, and to stir the content of the cask each day. On the third da after tho cask is full—that is, tho tent day after tho commencement of making— the cask may bo securely bunged dowr i This is a very simple and easy methoc and the wine made according to it wi be pronounced to be most excellenr There is no troublesome boiling, and a fermentation takes place iu the ca.4 When tho above directions are attoudo to, tho wine cannot fail to be good. ] should bo bottled in 8 or 9 mouths, an227 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Oranges, Compote of will be fit for use in a twelvemonth after the time cf making. Ginger wine may- be made in precisely the same manner, only, with ine Q-gallon cask for ginger wine, 2 lbs. of the best whole ginger, hndsed, must be put with the sugar. It will be found convenient to tie the gin- ger loosely in a muslin bag. Time.— Altogether, 10 days to make it. Average cost, 2s. 6d. per gallon. Sufficient for 9 gallons. Seasonable.—Make this in March, and bottle it in the following January. OBANGES, Compote of. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, 6 oranges. Mode.—Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into small pieces without beeaking the thin skin with which they are surrounded. Make the symp by recipe, adding the rind of the orange cut into thin narrow strips. When the syrup has been well skimmed, and is quite clear, put in the pieces of orange, and simmer them for 5 minutes. Take them cut carefuUy with a spoon without COUPOTB OF 0BAN6ES. breaking them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Keduce the syrup by boiling it quickly until thick ; let it cool a little, pour it over the oranges, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. Tivie. —10 minutes to boil the syrup; 5 minutes to simmer the oranges; 5 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonalle fi-om November to May. OBAWGES, a Pretty Dish of. Ingredients.—6 large oranges, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, i pint of water, h pint of cream, 2 teblespoonfuls of any kind of liquor, sugar to taste. Mode.—Vxxt the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes brit- tle, which may bo ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a spoon, and dip- ping it in cold water; if the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will easily snap. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices, without breaking the thin whito skiu which surrounds Oranges, Preserved the juicy pulp. Place the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hob sugar, and arrange them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with the purest salad-oil. The sides of the mould only should bo lined with the oranges, and the centra left open for the cream. Let the sugar become firm by cooling; turn the oranges cai-efully out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of liqueur, and sweetened with pounded sugar. This is an exceed- ingly ornamental and nice dish for the supper-table. Tivie.—10 minutes to boil the sugar. Average cost. Is. &d.—Suffix cient for 1 mould. Seasonable from No- vember to May, OEAN-GES, Iced. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb, of pounded loaf sugar allow the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Whisk the whites of the eggs well, stir in the sugar, and beat this mixture for \ hour. Skin the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible without injuring the pulp of the fruit; pass a thread through the centre of each orange, dip them into the sugar, and tie them to a stick. Place this stick across the oven, and let the oranges remain until dry, when they will have the appearance of balls of ice. They make a pretty dessert or supper dish. Care must be taken not to have the oven too fierce, or the oranges would scorch and acquire a brown colour, which would entirely spoil their appear- ance. Time.—From ^ to 1 hour to dr^ in a moderate oven. "Average cost, l^d, each. Sufficiejit.—J lb. of sugar to ice 12 oranges. Seasonable from November to May. ORANGES, Preserved. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb, of juice and pulp allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar; to every pint of water ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Wholly grate or peel the oranges, taking off only the thin outside portion of the rind. Make a small incision where the stalk is taken out, squeeze out as much of the juice as can be obtained, and preserve it in a basin with the pulp that accompanies it. Put the oranges into cold water; let them stand for 3 days, changing the water twice ; then boil them in fresh water till they are very tender, »ad put them to drain.THE DICTIOitAllY OP COOKERY. 228 Ox, the Mako a syrup with tho above proportion of sugar aud wator, sufficient to covur tho oranges ; lot thorn stand in it for 2 or 3 days ; then drain them well. Weigh tho juice and pulp, allow double their weight of sugar, and boil them together until the scum ceases to rise, which must all \)0 carel'uUy removed; put in the fcranges, boil them for 10 minutes, place them in jars, pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down. They will be fit for use in a week. Time.—3 days for the oranges to remain in water, 3 days in the syrup ; ^ hour to boil the pulp, 10 minutes the oranges. Season- able.—This proserve should be made in February or March, when oranges are plentiful. OX, The. The manner in which a side of beef is cut up in London is shown in the engraving on this page. In the metro- polis, on account of the largo number of its population possessing the means to indulge in the " best of everything," the demand for the most delicate joints of meat is great, the price, at the same time, being much higher for these than for the other parts. The consequence is, that in London the carcass is there di- vided so as to obtain the greatest quan- tity of meat on the most esteemed joints. In many places, however, where, from a greater equality in the social condition and habits of the inhabitants, the de- mand and prices for the different parts of the carcasses are more equalized, there is not the same reason for the butcher to cut the best joints so large. The meat on those parts of the animal in which the muscles are least called into action is most tender and succulent; as, for instance, along the back, from the rump to the hinder part of the shoulder; whilst the limbs, shoulder, and neck are the toughest, driest, and least-esteemed. The names of the several joints in the bind and fore quarters of a side of beef, and the purposes for which they are ised, are as follows:— Utnd Quarter:— 1. Sirloin,— the two sirloins, cut together in one joint, form a baron; this, when roasted, is the famous national dish of Eng- lishmen, at entertainments, on occasion of rejoicing. Ox, the 2. Rump,—tho finest part for steaks. 3. Aitch-bone,—boiling piece. 4. Buttock,—prime boiling piece. 6. Mouse-round,—Coiling or stew- ing. 6. flock,—stewing. BIDE OF BEEF, SHOWING THE SEVEQAL JOINTS. 7. Thick flank, cut with tho udder- fat,—primest boiling piece. 8. Thin flank,—boiling. Fore Quarter:— 9. Five ribs, called the foro-ril> — This is considered tho primci-t roasting piece.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Ox-Clieek Soup 10. Four ribs, called the middle-rib, —greatly esteemed by house- keepers as the most economical joint for roasting. 11. Two ribs, called the chuck-rib, —used for second quality of cteaks. 12. Leg-of-mutton piece,—the mus- cles of the shoulder dissected from the breast. 13. Brisket, or breast,—used for boiling, after being salted. 14. Neck, clod, and sticking-piece, —used for soups, gravies, stocks, pies, and mincing for sausages. 15. Shin,—stewing. The following is a classification of the qualities of meat, according to the seve- ral joints of beef, when cut up in the London manner. ^ii-st ctoss—includes the sirloin, with the kidney suet (1), the rump-steak piece (2), the fore-rib (9). Second class—The buttock (4), the thick flank (7), the middle-rib (10). Third class—The aitch-bone (3), the mouse-round (5), the thin flank (8), the chuck (11), the leg-of-mutton piece (12), the brisket (13). Fourth class—The neck, clod, and sticking-piece (14). Fifth class—The hock (6), the shin (15). OX-CHEEK SOUP. Ingredients.—An ox-cheek, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 parsnip, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 3 heads of celery, 3 blades of mace, 4 cloves, a fag- got of savoury herbs, 1 bay leaf, a tea- spoonful of salt, half that of pepper, 1 head of celery, browning, the crust of a French roll, 5 quarts of water. Mode.— Lay the ham in the bottom of the stow- pan, with the butter; break the bones of the cheek, wash it clean, and put it on the ham. Cut the vegetables small, add them to the other ingredients, and set the whole over a slow fire for \ of an hovur. Now put in the water, and sim- mer gently till it is reduced to 4 quarts ; take out the fleshy part of the cheek, and strain the soup into a clean stewpan ; thicken with flour, put in a head of sliced celery, and simmer till the celery is tender. If not a good colour, use a little browning. Cut the meat into small square pieces, pour the soup over, and serve with the crust of a French roll in the tureen. A glass of sherry much im- Ox-Tail, Broiled proves this soup. Time.—3 to 4 hours. Average cost, %d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 persons. OX-CHEEK, Stewed Ingredients.—1 cheek, salt and water, 4 or 6 onions, butter and flour, 6 cloves, 3 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 bay-leaf, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, cay- enne, black pepper, and salt to taste, 1 oz. of butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey's sauce. Mode.—Have the cheek boned, and prepare it the day before it is to be eaten, by cleaning and putting it to soak all night in salt and water. The next day, wipe it dry and clean, and put it into a stewpan. Just cover it with water, skim well when it boils, and let it gently simmer till the meat is quite tender. Slice and fry 3 onions in a little butter and flour, and put them into the gravy; add 2 whole onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, 3 tur- nips quartered, 2 carrots sliced, a bay- leaf, 1 head of celery, a bunch of herbs, and seasoning to taste of cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Let these stew till perfectly tender; then take out the cheek, divide into pieces fit to help at table, skim and strain the gravy, and thicken 1^ pint of it with butter and flom* in the above proportions. Add the vinegar, ketchup, and port wine; put in the pieces of cheek ; let the whole boil up, and serve quite hot. Send it to table in a rago<it-dish. If the colour of the gi'cvy should not be very good, add a tablespoonful of the browning. Time. —4 hours. Average cost,. 3cZ. per lb. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. OX-TAIL, Broiled (an Entree). Ingredients.—2 tails, 1^ pint of stock, salt and cayenne to taste, bread crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Joint and cut up tho tails into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with the stock, cayenne, and salt, and, if liked very savoury, a bunch of sweet herbs. Let them simmer gently for about 2i hours; then take them out, drain them, and let them cool. Beat an egg upon a plate; dip in each piece of tail, and, afterwards, sprinkle them well with lino bread crumbu; broU them over a clear fire,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 230 Ox-Tail Soup until of a brownish colour on both sides, and serve with a good gravy, or any sauce that may be preferred. Time.—About 2A hours. Average cost, from M. to Is. Gd.', according to tiie season. Sufficient for 6 persons. SeasoyiaUe at any time. Note. — These may be more easily prepared by putting the tails in a brisk oven, after they have been dipped in egg and bread-crumb ; and, when brown, they are done. They must be boiled the eame time as for broiling. OX-TAIL SOUP. Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, 2 slices of ham, 1 oz. of butter, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 1 leek, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 1 bay-leaf, 12 ■whole peppercorns, 4 cloves, a table- spoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, ^ glass of port wine, 3 quarts of water. Mode. — Cut up the tails, separating them at the joints; wash them, and put them in a stewpan, with the butter. Cut the vegetables in slices, and add them, with the peppercorns and herbs. Put in ^ pint of water, and stir it over a sharp tire till the juices are drawn. '-Fill up the stewpan with the water, and, when boiling, add the salt. Skim well, and simmer very gently for 4 hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with flour, and flavour with the ketchup and port wine. Put back the tails, simmer for 5 minutes, and serve. Time.—4n hours. Average cost, Is. Zd. per quartT Seasonable in winter. Suffi- cient for 10 persons. OX-TAILS, Stewed. Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, \ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, \ teaspoonful of allspice, ^ a teaspoonful of salt, a small bunch of savoury herbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonfid of mush- room ketchlip. il/ot/e.—Divide the tails at the joints, wash, and put them into a Etewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and set them on the fire; when the water boils, remove the scum, and add the onion cut iuto rings, the spice, seasoning, and herbs. Cover the stewpan closely, and lot the tails simmer very gently until tender, which will bo in about 2.^ hours. Take them out, mako a thickening of butter and Hour, add it Oyster Patties to the gravy, and let it boil for \ hour. Strain it through a sieve into a saucepan, put back the tails, add the lemon-juice and ketchup ; let the whole just boil up, and serve. Garnish with crofitons or sip. pets of toasted bread. Time.—2h hours to stew the tails. A verage cost, '9d. to 1«. 6d., according to the season. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, OYSTER, Forcemeat for Boast or Boiled Turkey. Ingredients.— ^ pint of bread crumbs, 1^ oz, of chopped suet or butter, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, ^ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 2 eggs, 18 oysters. Mode.—Grate the bread very fine, and be careful that no largo lumps remain ; put it into a basin with the suet, which must be very finely minced, or, when butter is used, that must be cut up into small pieces. Add the herbs, also chopped as small as pos- sible, and seasoning; mix all these well together, until the ingredients are tho- roughly mingled. Open and beard the oysters, chop them, but not too small, and add them to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, and, with the hand, work altogether, until it is smoothly mi.xed. The turkey should not be stuffed too full: if there should bo too much forcemeat, roll it into balls, fry them, and use them as a garnish. Sufficient for 1 turkey, OYSTEB KETCHUP. Ingredients.—Sufiicient oysters to fill a pint measure, 1 pint of sheny, 3 oz, of salt, 1 drachm of cayenne, 2 drachms of pounded mace. Mode.—Procure the oysters very fresh, and open suflScient to fill a pint measure ; save the liquor, and scald the oysters in it with the sherry; strain the oysters, and put them in a mortar with the salt, cayenne, and mace ; pound the whole until reduced to a pulp, then add it to the liquor in which they were scalded; boil it again five minutes, and skim well; rub the whole tlu"ough a sieve, and, when cold, bottle and coi'k closely. The corks should bo sealed. Seasonable from September to April, Note.—Cider may be substituted for the sherry. OYSTEB PATTIES (an Entrda). Ingredients.—2 dozen oysters, 2 oz. of butter, 3 tablespooafuls of cream, a231 i'SE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Oyster Sauce little lemon-juice, 1 blade of pounded Diaco ; cayenne to taste. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and cut each one into 3 pieces. Put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up ; add the strained oyster-liquor with the other ingredients ; put in the oysters, and let them heat gradually, but not boil fast. Make the patty-cases as directed for lobster patties, fill with the oyster mix- ture, and replace the covers. Time.—2 minutes for the oysters to simmer in the mixture. Averac/e cost, exclusive of the patty-cases, Is. 4ci. Seasonable from September to April. OTSTEE SAUCE, to serve with jPisli, Boiled Poultry, &c. Inr/r(clients.—3 dozen oysters, ^ pint cf melted butter, made with milk. Mode. —Open the oysters carefully, and save tieir liquor; strain it into a clean saucepan (a lined one is best), put in the oysters, and let them just come to the Ixjiling-point, when they should look j;.lump. Take them off the fire imme- diately, and put the whole into a basin. Strain the liquor from them, mix with it f.ifficicnt melted butter made with milk to make h pint altogether. When this is ready and very smooth, put in the cysters, which should be previously bearded, if you wish the sauce to be really nice. Set it by the side of the fire to get thoroughly hot, bid do not allow it to boil, or the oysters will imme- diately harden. Using cream instead of milk makes this sauce extremely delicious. When liked, add a seasoning of cayenne or anchovy sauce; but, as we have before stated, a plain sauce sAohW be plain, !tjid not be overpowered by highly- favoured essences ; therefore wo recom- mend that the above directions be impli- citly followed, and no seasoning added. Ave)\uje cost for this quantity, 2s. Suffi- cient for 6 persons. Never allow fewer than 6 oysters to 1 person, unless the arty is very largo. Seasonable from eptember to April. A more economical sauce may be Kiado by using a smaller quantity of cysters, and not bearding them before they are added to the sauce : this may fcns^cr tha purpose, but we cannot vindi»rtake to recommend it as a mode for noAkiKf this deliQiuus adjunct to Oysters Fried in Batter OYSTEB SOUP. Ingredients.—Q dozen of oysters, 2 quarts of white stock, I pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, l\ oz.'of flour; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste. Mode.—■ Scald the oysters in their own liquor; take them out, beard them, and put them in a tureen. Take a pint of the stock, put in the beards and the liquor, which must be carefully strained, and simmer for ^ an hour. Take it off the fire, strain it"again, and add the remain- der of the stock, with the seasoning and mace. Bring it to a boil, add the thick- ening of butter and flour, simmer for 5 minutes, stir in the boiling cream, pour it over the oysters, and serve. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, 2s. St^. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup can be made less rich by using milk instead of cream, and thickening with arrowroot instead of butter and flour. OYSTEE SOUP. Ingredients.—2 quarts of good mutton broth, 6 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour. Mode.—Beard the oysters, and scald them in their own liquor ; then add it, well sti-aincd, to the broth ; thicken with the butter and flour, and simmer for ^ of an hour. Put in the oysters, stir well, but do not let it boil, and serve very hot. Time.—f hour. Average cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Siifficient for 8 persons. OYSTERS, Fried. Ingredients.—3 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, a little chopped lemon-peel, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.—Boil the oysters lor 1 minute in their own liquor, and drain them ; fry them with the butter, ketchup, lomon-peol, and parsley; lay them on a dish, and garnish with fried potatoes, toasted sippets, and par- slcy. This is a delicious delicacy, and is a favourite Italian dish. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, Is. Qd, Seasonable from September to April. Svfficient for 4 persons. OYSTERS Fried in Batter. Ingredients. — ^ i)int of oysters, 2 egpps, J pint of milk, sufficient flour to make the batter; popper aud salt to taste:232 THE DICTIONARY OP dOOfcEET. Oysters, to Keep when liked, a little nutmeg; Uot lard. Mode.—Scald the oysters ia tiicir own liquor, beard them, and lay them on a cloth to drain thoroughly. Break the eggs into a basin, mix the flour with them, add the milk gradually, with nutmeg and seasoning, and put the oysters in the batter. Make some lard hot in a deep frying-pan, put in the oysters, one at a time ; when done, take them up with a sharp-pointed skewer, and dish them on a napkin. Fried oysters are frequently used for garnishing boiled fish, and then a few bread crumbs should be added to the flour. Time.— 5 or 6 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, Is. lOcZ. Seasonable from Sep- tember to April. Sufficient for 3 persons, OYSTERS, to Keep. Put them in a tub, and cover them with salt and water. Let them remain for 12 hours, when they are to. be taken out, and allowed to stand for another 12 hours without water. If left without water every alternate 12 hours, they will be much better than if constantly kept in it. Never put the same water twice to them. OYSTEHS, Pickled. Ingredients. —100 oysters ; to each h pint of vinegar, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 12 black peppercorns. Mode.—Get the oysters in good condition, open them, place them in a saucepan, and let them Bimraer in their own liquor for about 10 minutes very gently; then take them out one by one, and place them in a jar, and cover them, when cold, with a pickle made as fol- lows :—Measure the oyster-liquor ; add to it the same quantity of vinegar, with mace, lemon-peel, and pepper in the above proportion, and boil it for 6 mi- nutes ; when cold, pour over the oysters, and tie them down very closely, as con- tact with the air spoils them. Seasonable from September to April. jf^oie,—Put this pickle away in small jars ; because, directly ono is opened, its contents should immediately bo eaten, as they soon spoil. The pickle should cot bo kept more than 2 or 3 months. OYSTERS, Scalloped. Jiigredi'ents.—Oyatera, say 1 pint, 1 oz. butter, Hour, 2 tablespoonfuls of white Oysters, Stewed stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream ; pepper and salt to taste; bread crumbs, oiled butter. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, beard them, and strain the liquor free from grit. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan ; when melted, dredge in suflScient Hour to dry it up ; add the stock, cream, and strained liquor, and give one boil. Put in the oysters and seasoning; let them gradually heat through, but not boil. Have ready the scallop-shells buttered ; lay in the oysters, and as much of the liquid as they will hold; cover them over with bread crumbs, over which drop a little oiled butter. Brown them in the oven, or before the fire, and serve quickly, and very hot. Time.—Alto- gether, ^ hour. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. OYSTERS, Scalloped. Prepare the oysters as in the preceding recipe, and put them in a scallop-shell or saucer, and between each layer sprinkle over a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; place small pieces of butter over, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Put sufficient bread crumbs on the top to make a smooth surface, as the oysters should not be seen. Time.—About ^ hour. Average cost, 8s. 2d. Seasonable from September to April. OYSTERS, Stewed. Ingredients.—1 pint of oyster?, 1 oz. of butter, flour, J pint of cream ; cayenne and salt to taste; 1 blade of pounded mace. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, bear i tliem, and strain the liquor; put tho butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufRcicnt flour to dry it up, add the oj'ster-liquor and mace, and stir it over a sharp fire with a wooden spoon ; when it comes to a boil, add the crsam, oysters, and seasoning. Let all simmer for 1 or 2 minutes, but not longer, or the oysters would harden. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons, or toasted sippets of broad. A small piece of lemon-peel boiled with the oyster-liquor, and taken out before the cream is added, will be found an improvement. r/wiC—Altogether 15 mi- nutes. Average cost for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Seasonable from September to Sufficient for 6 persona.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 233 Pancakes cream. PANCAKES. Ingredients.—Eggs, flour, milk; to every egg allow 1 oz. of flour, about 1 gill of milk, ^ saltspoonful of salt. Mode. —Ascertaia that the eggs are fresh; Dreak each one separately in a cup; whisk them well, put them into a basin, with the flour, salt, and a few drops of milk, and beat the whole to a perfectly SMOoth batter; then add by degrees the remainder of the milk. The proportion of this latter ingredient must be regu- lated by the size of the eggs, &;c. &c. ; but the batter, when ready for frying, should be of the consistency of thick Place a small frying-pan on the tire to get hot; let it be deli- cately clean, or the pan- cakes will PANCAKES. g^.^j^^ ^^^^ when quite hot, put into it a small piece of butter, allowing about ^ oz. to each pancake. When it is melted, pour in the batter, about ^ teacupful to a pan 5 inches in diameter, and fry it for about 4 minutes, or until it is nicely brown on one side. By only pouring in a small quantity of batter, and so making the pancakes thin, the necessity of turn- ing them (an operation rather difficult to unskilful cooks) is obviated. When the pancake is done, sprinkle over it some pounded sugar, roll it up in the pan, and take it out with a large slice, and place it on a dish before the fire. Proceed in this manner until sufficient are cooked for a dish; then send them quickly to table, and continue to send in a further quantity, as pancakes are never good unless eaten almost immediately they come from the frying-pan. The batter may be flavoured with a little grated lemon-rind, or the pancakes may have preserve rolled in them instead of sugar. Bond sifted sugar and a cut lemon to table with them. To render the pan- cakes vci-y light, the yolks and whites of the eggs should be beaten separately, and the whites added the last thing to the batter before frying. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes for a pancake that does not require turning ; from 6 to 8 minutes for a thicker one. Average cost for 3 persons, Qd. Sxifficient.—Allow 3 eggs, with the other ingredients in proportion, for 3 persons. SeasonaUe at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. Pan Kail PANCAKES. Ingredients.—Q eggs, 1 pint of cream, \ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 glass of sherry, i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, flour. Mode.—Ascertain that the eggs are ex- tromely fresh, beat them well, strain and mix with them the cream, pounded sugar, wine, nutmeg, and as much flour as will make the batter nearly as thick as that for ordinary pancakes. Make the frying- pan hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, pour in sufficient batter to make a thin pan- cake, and fry it for about 5 minutes. Dish the pancakes piled one above the other, strew sifted sugar between each, and serve. Time.—About 5 minutes. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. M. Sufficient to make 8 pancakes. SeasonaUe at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. PANCAKES, French. Ingredients.—2 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 2 oz. of flour, h pint of new milk. Mode.—Beat the egga thoroughly, and put them into a basin with the butter, which should be beaten to a cream ; stir in the sugar and floui, and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the milk ; keep stirring and beating the mixture for a few minutes ; put it on buttered plates, and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted sugar, or pile the pancakes high on a dish, with a layer of preserve or marmalade between each. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. PANCAKES, Snow. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of snow, about A pint of new milk. Mode,—Mix the flour with the milk by degrees, add the egg well beaten, and just before frying, the snow, it should then be all beaten up together quickly, and put into the frying- pan immediately. Sufficient for 8 pan* cakes. PAN KAIL. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cabbage, or Savoy greens ; \ lb. of butter or dripping, salt and pepper to taste, oatmeal for thickening, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—- Chop the cabbage very fine, thicken tho water with oatmeal, put in the cabbagoTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 234 Parsley and Butter and butter, or dripping; season and Bimmor for U hour. It can he made Boonor by blanching and mashing the greens, adding any good liquor that a joint has been boiled in, and then furi-lier thicken with bread or pounded biscuit. Time.—l.^, hour. Avercuje cost, l!,d. per quart. Seasonahle all the year, but more suitable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. PAESLEY AND PUTTEE, to Berve with. Calf s Head, Boiled Fowls, &c. Ingredients. — 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, \ pint of melted butter. Mode.—Put into a saucepan a small quantity of water, slightly salted, and when it boils, throw in a good bunch of parsley which has been previously washed and tied together in a bunch ; let it boil for 5 minutes, drain it, mince the leaves very fine, and put the above quantity in a tureen; pour over it \ pint of smoothly-made melted butter; stir once, that the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed, and serve. Time.— 5 minutes to boil the parsley. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 1 large fowl; allow rather more for a pair. Seasonahle at any time. PAHSLEY, Pried, for Garnisliing. Ingredients.—Parsley, hot lard or clari- fied dripping. Mode. — Gather some young parsley; wash, pick, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth ; put it into the wire basket of which we have given an engraving, and hold it in boiling lard or dripping for a minute or two. Directly it is done, lift out the basket, and let it Btand before the fire, that the parsley xnay become thoroughly crisp ; and the quicker it is fried the better. Should the kitchen not bo furnished with the < Willi! IIASKET, ibove arliclo, throw the parsley into the frj-ing-pan, and when crisp, lift it out I7ith a slice, dry it before the (ire, and frhcn thoroughly cilsp it will be ready Parsnip Soup Wire Basickt.—For this recipe a wire basket, as shown in the annexed eiigiav- ing, will be found very useful. It is very liRlit and handy, and may be used for otiier similar purposes besides that just described. PARSLEY JUICE, for Colouring various Dishes. Procure some nice young par.sley; wash it and dry it thoroughly in a cloth; pound the leaves in a moi-tar till all the juice is extracti;d, and put the juice in a teacup or small jar; place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and warm it on the hain-marie principle just long enough to take off its rawness ; let it drain, and it wiU be ready for colouring. Substitute for. — Sometimes in the middle of winter parsley-leaves are not to be had, when the following will bo found an excellent substitute :—Tie up a little parsley-seed in a small piece of muslin, and boil it for 10 minutes in a small quantity of water ; use this water to make the melted butter with, and throw into it a little boiled spinach, minced rather fine, which will have an appearance similar to that of parsley. PARSLEY, to Preserve through the Winter. Use freshly-gathered parsley for keep- ing, and wash it perfectly free from grit and dirt; put it into boiling water which has been slightly salted and well skimmed, and then let it boil for 2 or 3 minutes; take it out, let it drain, and lay it on a sieve in front of the fire, when it should be dried as expeditiously - as poss bie. Store it away in a very tlry place in bottles, and when wanted for use pour over it a little warm water, and let it stand for about 6 minutes. Seasonahle. —This may be done at any time between Juno and October. PARSNIP SOUP. Ingredients.—1 lb. of sliced parsnijis, 2 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 quai't of stock. Mode.—Put th3 pars- nips into the stcwpan with the butler, which has been previously melted, auj siinmcr them till quite tender. Then add nearly a pint of stock, and boil togo- ther for half an hour. Pass all thrt>ugh a fine strainer, and put to it the reinaiu- dt^r ot the stock. Season, boil. Aud serveTHE IDiO^lONARY OF COOKERY. 235 Parsnips, Boiled immediately Time.—2 hours. Ave7-affe cost, 6d. par quart. Seasonable from October to April. Sufficient for 4 per- EOUS. PAESWIPS, Boiled. Ingredients.—Parsnips ; to each h gal- lon of water allow 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt. Mode. — Wash the parsnips, scrape them thoroughly, and with the point of the knife remove any black specks about them, and, should they be very large, cut tho thick j^art into quarters. Put them into a sauce- pan of boiling water salted in the above proportion, boil them rapidly untU tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork in them; take them up, drain them, and serve in a vegetable-dish. This vegetable is usually served with salt fish, boiled pork, or boiled beef : when sent to table with tho latter, a few should be placed alternately with carrots round the dish as a garnish. Time.—Large pars- nips, 1 to 1| hour; small ones, ^ to 1 hour. Average cost,\d.e&tih.. Sufficient. —Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable from October to May. PARTRIDGE, Broiled (a Lunch- eon, Breakfast, or Supper Dish). Ingredients.—3 partridges, salt and cayenne to taste, a small piece of buttei', brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Mode. —Pluck, draw, and cut the partridges in half, and wipe the inside thoroughly with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne, broil them over a very clear fire, and dish them on a hot dish ; rub a small piece of butter over each half, and send them to table with brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Time.— About \ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient for 3 or four per- sons. Seasonable from the 1st of Sep- tember to the beginning of February. PARTRIDGE PIE. Ingredients.—3 partridges, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley (when obtainable, a few mush- roomi), I lb. of veal cutlet, a slice of ham, i pint of stock, pufF paste. Mode. —Line a pie-dish with a veal cutlet; over that place a slice of ham and a sea- soning of popper and salt. Pluck, draw, and wipe tho partridges ; cut off the logs at the first joint, and season them inside Partridge, Boast with pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a small piece of butter ; place them in the dish, and pour over the stock ; line the edges of the dish with puff paste, cover with the same, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake for f to 1 hour. Time.— f to 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. Note.—Should tho partridges be very large, split them in half, they will then lie in the dish more compactly. When at hand, a few mushrooms should always be added. PARTRIDGE, Potted. Ingredients. — Partridges ; seasoning to taste of mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt; butter, coarse paste. Mode. —Pluck and draw the birds, and wipe them inside with a damp cloth. Pound well some mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt; mix together, and rub every part of the partridges with this. Paclc the birds as closely as possible in a baking-pan, with plenty of butter over them, and cover with a coarse flour and water crust. Tie a paper over this, and bake for rather more than 1| hour; let the birds get cold, then cut them into pieces for keeping, pack them closely into a largo potting-pot, and cover with clarified butter. This should be kept in a cool dry place. The butter used for potted things will answer for basting, or for paste for meat pies. Time.—Ih hour. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. PARTRIDGE, Roast. Ingredients. — Partridge; butter. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose young birds, with dark-coloured bills and yellowish legs, and let them hang a few days, or there will be no flavour to tho HOAST PAETBIDGH, flcsli, nor will it be tender. The time they should be kept entirely depends on the taste of those for whom thoy are intended, as what some persons would consider delicious would be to othernTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 236 Partridge Soup disgusting and offensive. Tboy may be trussed with or without the head, the latter mode being now considered the most fashionable. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge carefully inside and out; cut ofif the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back ; bring the legs close to the breast, between it and the side-bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. When the head is left on, it should be brought round and fixed on to the point of the skewer. Mode.—When the bird is firmly and plumply trussed, roast it before a nice bright fire; keep it well basted, and a few minutes before serving, flour and froth it well. Dish it, and serve with gravy and bread sauce, and send to table hot and quickly. A little of the gravy should be poured over the bird. Tivie.— 25 to 35 minutes. Average cost. Is. Qd. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. PARTBIDGE SOUP. Ingredients.—2 partridges, 3 slices of lean ham, 2 shred onions, 1 head of celery, 1 large carrot, and 1 turnip cut into any fanciful shapes, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode. —Cut the partridges into pieces, and braise them in the butter and ham until quite tender ; then take out the legs, wings, and breast, and set them by. Keep the backs and other trimmings in the braise, and add the onions and celery; any remains of cold game can be put in, and 3 pints of stock. Simmer slowly for 1 hour, strain it, and skim the fat off as clean as possible; put in the pieces that were taken out, give it one boil, and skim again to have it quite clear, and add the sugar and seasoning. Now simmer the cut carrot and turnip in 1 pint of stock; when quite tender, put them to tho partridges, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 2s. oris. 6rf. per quart. Seasonable from Sep- tember to February. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—The meat of the partridges may be pounded with a crumb of a French roll, and worked with tho soup through a sieve. Servo with stewed celery cut in slices, and put xa th« tiireen. Partridges, Hashed BOAST PABTBIDGE. PARTBIDGES, to Carve. There are several ways of carving this most familiar game bird. The °more usual and sum- mary mode is to carry the knife sharply along the top of tha breast-bone o( the bird, and cut it quite through, thus dividing it into two pre- cisely equal and similar parts, in the same manner as carving a pigeon. Another plan is to cut it into three pieces; viz., by severing a small wing and leg on either side from the _ body, by following the line 1 to 2 in the upper woodcut; thus making 2 helpings, when the breast will remain for a third plate. The most elegant manner is that of thrusting back the body from the legs, and then cutting through the breast in the direction shown by the hue 1 to 2 : this plan will give 4 or more small helpings. A little bread- sauce should be served to each guest. PARTRIDGES, Hashed, or Salmi de Perdrix. Ingredients. — 3 young partridges, 3 shallots, a slice of lean ham, 1 carrot, 3 or 4 mushrooms, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 cloves, 6 whole peppers, 3 pint of stock, 1 glass of sherry or Maaeira, a small lump of sugar. Mode.—After the partridges are plucked and drawn, roast them rather underdone, and cover them with paper, as they should not be browned; cut them into joints, take off the skin from the wings, legs, and breasts ; put these into a stewpan, cover them up, and set by until the gravy is ready. Cut a slice of ham into small pieces, and put them, with tho carrots sliced, the shallots, mushrooms, herbs, cloves, and pepper, into a stewjmn ; fry them lightly in a little butter, pour in the stock, add the bones and trimmine: from the partridges, and simmer for i hour. Strain the gravy, let it cool, and skim off every particle of fat; put it to the legs, wings, and breasts, add a glass of sherry or Madeira and a small lump of sugar, let all gradually warm througa ha the side of tho fire, and when on tueTilE DiCTlONARt OP COOICEH?. 237 Paste, Common, for Family Pies point of boiling, serve, and garnish the Tlisn with croCltons. The remains of lonst partridge answer very well dressed in this way, although rot so good as when the birds are in the hrst instance only half-roasted. This i-ecipe is equally suitable for pbeasants, moorgame, &c. ; but care must be taken always to skin tho joints. Timr..—Altogether 1 hour. iSiffficient. — 2 or 3 partridges for an entree. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginningof February. PASTB, Common, tor Family Pies. Ingredients.—\i lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, rather more than ^ pint of water. Mode.—Rub the butter Tightly into the flour, and mix it to a smooth paste with the water ; roll it out 2 or 3 times, and it will be ready for use. This paste may be converted into an excellent short crust for sweet tart by adding to the Hour, after the butter is rubbed in, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine-sifted sugar. Ave- rage cost, M. per lb. PASTE, Puff, French,' or Feuille- tage (Founded on M. Ude's Becipe). Ingredients.—Equal quantities of flour and butter—say 1 lb. of each ; ^ salt- spoonful of salt, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than \ pint of water. Mode. —Weigh the flour; ascertain that it is perfectly dry, and sift it; squeeze all the water from the butter, and wring it in a clean cloth till there is no moisture re- maining. Put the flour on the paste- board, work lightly into it 2 oz. of the butter, and then make a hole in the centre ; into this well put the yolks of 2 eggs, the salt, and about ^ pint of water (the quantity of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the cook, as it is impossible to give the exact proportion of it); knead up the paste quickly and lightly, and, when quite smooth, roll it out square to the thickness of about h inch. Presuming that the butter is per" fectly free from moisture, and as cool as ossible, roll it into a ball, and place this alLof butter on the paste ; fold the pasts' ever tho butter all round, and secure it by wrapping it well all over. Flatten the paste by rolling it lightly with tho rolling-pin until it is quite thin, but not thin enough to allow tho butter to break through, and keep the board Paste, Pull, very Good and paste dredged lightly with flour during the process of making it. This rolling gives it the yirsi turn. Now fold the paste in three, and roll out again, and, should the weather be very warm, put it in a cold place on tho ground to ccol between the several turns; for, unless this is particularly attended to, the paste will be spoiled. Roll out the paste again twice, put it by to cool, then roll it out <?»!'ce more, which will make 6 turnings in all. Now fold the paste in two, and it will bo ready for use. If propei-ly baked and well made, this crust will be delicious, and should rise in tha oven about 5 or 6 inches. The paste should be made rather firm in the first instance, as the ball of butter is liable to break through. Great attention must also be paid to keeping the butter very cool, as, if this is in a liquid and soft state, the paste will not answer at all. Should the cook be dexterous enough to succeed in making this, the paste will have a much better appearance tban that made by the process of dividing the butter into 4 parts, and placing it over the rolled-out paste; but until experience has been acquired, we recommend puff-paste made by recipe. Tho above paste is used for vols-au-vent, small articles of pastry, and, in iact, everything that requires very light crust. Average cost, Is. 6d. per lb. PASTE, PufF, very Good. Ingredients. —To every lb. of flour allow 1 lb. of butter, and not quite h pint of water. Mode.—Carefully weigh the Hour and butter, and have the exact proportion ; squeeze the butter well, to extract the water from it, and afterwards wring it in a clean cloth, that no moisture may remain. Sift the flour ; sec that it is perfectly dry, and proceed in tho following manner to make the paste, usinga very cZeawpaste-board and rolling- pin :—Supposing the quantity to be 1 lb. of flour, work the whole into a smooth paste with not quite A pint of water, using a knife to mix it with : the propor- tion of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the discretion of the cook ; if too much be added, tho paste, when baked, will be tough. Roll -it out until it is of an equal thickness of about an inch ; break 4 oz. of the butter into small pieces ; plaio these on the paste, sift over it a little flour, fold it over, roll out again.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 238 Paste, Puff, Medium and put another 4 oz. of butter. Repeat the rolling and buttering until the paste has been rolled out 4 jimes, or equal quantities of flour and butter have boon used. Do not omit, every time the paste is rolled out, to dredge a little flour over that and the rolling-pin, to prevent both from sticking. Handle the paste as lightly as possible, and do not press heavily upon it with the rolling-pin. The next thing to be considered is the oven, as the baking of pastry requires particular attention. Do not put it into the oven until it is sufficiently hot to raise the paste; for the best-prepared paste, if not properly baked, will be good for nothing. Brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and the pieces of butter placed thereon, with the white of an egg, assists it to rise in leaves OT flakes. As this is the great beauty of puff-paste, it is as well to try this method. Average cost, Is. id. per lb. PASTE, Puff, Medium. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 8 oz. of butter, 4 oz, of lard, not quite ^ pint of water. Mode. —This paste may be made by the directions in the preceding recipe, only using less butter, and substituting lard for a portion of it. Mix the floTir to a smooth paste with not quite h pint of water; then roll it out 3 timesr the first time covering the paste with ljutter, the second with lard, and the third with butter. Keep the roUing-pin and paste slightly dredged with flour, to prevent them from stick- ing, and it will be ready for use. Average cost, Is. per lb. PASTE, Puff (Soyer's Recipe). Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow the yolk of 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon, J saltspoonful of salt, cold water, 1 lb. of fresh butter, i/oie.—Put the flour on to the paste-board ; make a hole in the centre, into which put the yolk of the egg, the lemon-juice, and salt; mix the whole with cold water (this should be iced in summer, if convenient) into a Boft flexible paste, with the right hand, and handle it as little as possible ; then squeeze all the buttermilk from the butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste; place the butter on this, and fold th« edges of the paste over, so as to hide it: roll it out again to the thickness of i inch; fold over one third, over which again pass the roUing-pin 4 then Pastry and Puddings fold over the other third, thus forming a square ; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. Flour a baking-sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice or in some cool place for J hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before ; place it again upon the ice for | hour, give it 2 more rolls, making 7 in all, and it is ready for use when required. Average cost, li. 6rf. per lb. PASTRY AND PTTDDINGS, Directions in connection with the making of. A few general remarks respecting the various ingredients of which puddings and pastry are composed may be accept- able, in addition to the recipes in this department of Household Management. Flour should be of the best quality, and perfectly dry, and sifted before being used; if in the least damp, the paste made from it will certairdy be heavy. Butter, unless fresh is used, should be washed from the salt, and well squeezed and wrung in a cloth, to get out all the water and buttermilk, which, if left in, assist to make the paste heavy. Lard should be perfectly sweet, which may be ascertained by cutting the bladder through, and, if the knife smells sweet, the lard is good. Suet should be finely chopped, perfectly free fx-om skin, and quite sweet; during the process of chopping, it should be lightly dredged with flour, which prevents the pieces from sticking together. Beef suet is considered the best; but veal suet, or the outside fat of a loin or neck of mutton, makes good crusts; as also the skimmings in which a joint of mutton has been boiled, but without vegetables. Clarified Beef Dripinng answers very well for kitchen pies, puddings, cakes, or for family use. A very good short crust may be made by mixing with it a small quantity of moist sugar ; but care must be taken to use the dripping sparingl)-, or a very disagreeable flavoiu" will be imparted to the paste. Strict cleanliness must be observed la pastry-making; all the utensils used should be perfectly free from dust and dirt, and the things required for pastry kevt entirely for that purpoie.THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEUT. 239 Pastry and Puddings In mixing paste, add tho water very gi-adually, work the whole together with the knife-blade, and knead it until perfectlysmooth. Those who are inexpe- rienced in pastry-making should work 1, 1 ! u PASTE-BOAED AITD EOLLING-PIIT, the butter in by breaking it in small fieces, and covering the paste rolled out. t should then be di-edged with flour, and the ends folded over and rolled out very thin again: this process must be repeated until aU the butter is used. PASTE-PrffCEKS AXD JAGGEB, TOB OEIiAilENTINQ THE EDGES OF PIE-CEUST3. The art of making paste requires much Eractice, dexterity, and skill: it should e touched as lightly as possible, made with cool hands and in a cool place (a marble slab is better than a board for the purpose) J and the coolest part of the house should be selected for the process during warm weather. Pastry and Puddings PASTE-CUITER AKD COKNEE-CTJTIBE. To insure rich paste being light, great expedition must bo used in the making and l**king J for if it stand long before it is put in the oven, it becomes flat and heavy. OEITAMESTTAL-PASTH OirTTBB. Ptiff-paste requires a brisk oven, but not too hot, or it would blacken the crust; on the other hand, if the oven be too slack, the paste will be soddened, and will not rise, nor will it have any colour. PATTT-PANS, PLAIN AND PLUTBD. Tart-tins, cake-moulds, dishes for baked puddings, patty-pans, &c., should all be buttered before the article intended to PIE-DISH. be bakoi is put in them. Things to be baked on sheets should be placed on buttered paper. Raised-pie paste should have a soaking heat, and paste glazed BAISED-PIB UOTTLD. must have rather a slack oven, that the icing be not scorched. It is BAI3ED-PIE UOULD, OFEN. better to ice tarts, &o., when thoy are three-parts baked.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 240 Pastry and Puddings To ascertain when the oven is heated to the proper degree for puff-pajte, put a small piece of the paste in prnvious to baking the whole, and then the heat can thus be judged of. The freshness of all pudding ingredients is of much importance, as one bad article will taint the whole mixture. When the fresJuiess of eggs is doubtful, break each one separately in a cup, before mixing them altogether. Should there be a bad one amongst them, it can be thrown away ; whereas, if mixed with the good ones, the entire quantity would be spoiled. The yolks and whites beaten separately make the articles they are put into much lighter. Raisins and dried fruits for puddings should be carefully picked, and in many cases stoned. Currants should be well washed, pressed in a cloth, and placed on a dish before the fire to get thoroughly dry: they should then be picked care- fully over, and even/ piece of grit or stone removed from amongst them. To plump them, some cooks pour boiling water over them, and then dry them before the fire. Batter pudding should be smoothly mixed and free from lumps. To insure this, first mix the flour with a very small proportion of milk, and add the remain- der by degrees. Should the pudding be very lumpy, it may be strained thi-ough a hair sieve. AII boiled puddings should be put on in boiling water, which must not be allowed to stop simmering, and the pudding must always be coverca with the water; if requi- site, the sauce- pan should be kept filled up. To prevent a pudding boiled in a cloth from sticking to the bottom of the aaucepar, place a small plate or saucer underneath it, and set the pan on a trivet over the firo, If a mould is used, this precaution is not necessary ; but care must bo taken to keep the pudding well covered with water. For dishing a boiled pudding as soon as it comes out of tho pot, dip it into a basin of cold wi-icr. and tho cloUi will Pastry and Puddings BOILBD-PUDDIIfO MOULD, then not adhere to it. Great expedition is necessary in sending puddings to table, as by standing they quickly become heavy, batter puddings particularly. BOILED PUDDIirO MOULD. For baked or boiled puddings, the moulds, cups, or basins should be always buttered before the mixture is put "in them, and they should be put into the saucepan directly they are filled. Scrupulous attention should be paid to the cleanliness of pudding-cloths, as from neglect in this particular the out- piTDDiira-Bisiir. sides of boiled puddings frequently taste very disagreeably. As soon as pos- sible after it is taken off the pudding, it should be soaked in water, and then well washed, without soap, unless it be very greasy. It should be dried out of doors, then folded up and kept in a dry place. When wanted for use, dip it in boiling water, and dredge it slightly with flour. The dry ingredieiits for puddings are better for being mixed some time before they are wanted; the liquid portion should only be added just before the pudding is put into the saucepan. A pinch of salt is an improvement to tho generality of puddings; but this ingredient should bo added very spar- ingly, as the flavour should not bo detected. When baked puddings are sufficiently solid, turn them out of the dish they were baked in, bottom uppermost, and strew over them fine-sifted sugar. When pastry or baked puddings are not done through, and yet tho outside is sufficiently brown, cover them over with a piece of white paper until thoroughly coolced : this prevents them from getting burnt.241 THE DICTIONAKY OP COOKERY. Pastry, Iced or Glazed PASTKY, to Ice or Glaze. To glaze pastry, which is the usual method adopted for meat or raised pies, break an egg-, separate the yolk from the white, and beat the former for a short time. Then, when the pastry i:? nearly baked, take it out of the oven, oi^^sh it over with this beaten yolk of egg, rM put it back in the oven to set the glaze. To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on a plate, and with the blade of a knite beat it to a stiff froth. When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with this, and sift over some pounded sugar ; put it back into the oven to set the glaze, and, in a few minutes, it will be done. Great care should be taken that the paste does not catch or burn in the oven, which it is very liable to do after the icing is laid on. Sufficient.—Allow 1 egg and 1^ oz. of sugar to glaze 3 tarts. PASTBT SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, jam of any kind, the white of an egg, sifted sugar. Mode.—Roll the paste out thin; put half of it on a baking-sheet or tin, and spread equally over it apricot, greengage, or any preserve that may be preferred. Lay over this preserve another thin paste; press the edges together all round ; and mark the paste in lines with a knife on the surface, to show where to cut it when baked. Bake from 20 minutes to h hour; and, a short time before being done, take the pastry out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an egg, sift over pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to colour. When cold, cut it into strips; pile these on a dish pyramidicallyy and serve. These strips, cut about 2 inches long, piled in circular rows, and a plateful of flavoured whipped cream poured in the middle, make a very pretty dish. Tme.—20 minutes to | houi-. Average cost, with ^ lb. of paste. Is. 'ivfficicnt.—i lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of sandwiches. Seasonable at any Vnic, PATE BBISEE, Crust French, for Raised Pies. Ingredients.—'i^o ovcrvlb. of flour allow I saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, \ pint of water, G oz. of butter. Mode.—Spread tto flovir, wbigU should be sjfted and Pea Soup, Inexpensive thoroughly dry, on the paste-board', make a hole in the centre, into which put the butter; work it lightly into the flour, and when quit« fine, add the salt; work the whole into a smooth paste with the eggs (yolks and whites) and water, and make it very firm. Knead the pasta well, and let it be rather stiff, that the sides of the pie may be easily raised, and that they do not afterwards tumble or thrink. Average cost, Is. per lb, £!'ote.—This paste may be very much enriched by making it with equal quan- tities of flour and butter; but then it is not so easily raised as when made plainer. PATTIES, Fried. [Cold Meat Cookebt.] Ingi-edients.— Cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 1 egg boiled hard, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, gravy, cream, 1 tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, good puff-paste. Mode.—Mince a little cold veal and ham, allowing one-third ham to two-thirds veal; add an egg boiled bard and chopped, and a seasoning of pounded mace, salt, pepper, and lemon-peel; moisten with a little gravy and cream. Make a good puff-paste ; roll rather thin, and cut it into round or square pieces; put the mince between two of them, pinch the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry a light brown. They may also be baked in patty-pans; in that case, they should be brushed over with the yolk of an egg before they are put in the oven. To make a variety, oysters may be substituted for the ham. Time.—16 minutes to fry the patties. Seasonablt from March to October, PEA SOUP (Inexpensive). Ingredients.—\ lb. of onions, | lb. of carrots, 2 oz. of celery, f lb. of split peas, a little mint, shred fine ; 1 tablespoonful of coarse brown sugar, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts of water, or Uquor it which a joint of meat has been boiled. Mode.—Fry the vegetables for 10 minutes in a little butter or dripping, previously cutting them up into small pieces ; pour the water on them, and when boiling add the peas. Let them simmer for nearly 3 hours, or until the peas are thoroughly done. Add the sugar, seasoning, and mint; boil for ^ of an hour, and serve, TifnC'—3^ hour?. Average cott, 1 h,d, perTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 242 Pea Soup, Green quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 persons. PEA SOUP (Green). Ingredients.—3 pints of green peas, i lb. oif butter, 2 or 3 thin slices of ham, 3 onions sliced, 4 shredded lettuces, the crumb of 2 French rolls, 2 handfuls of »pinach, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of )iedium stock. Mode.—Put the butter, Jam, 1 quart of peas, onions, and let- mces, to a pint of stock, and simmer for $u hour ; then add the remainder of the 4tock, with the crumb of the French •oils, and boil for another hour. Now joil the spinach, and-squeeze it very dry. ilub the soup through a sieve, and the spinach with it, to colour it. Have ready a pint of young peas boiled; add them to the soup, put in the sugar, give one boil, and serve. If necessary, add salt. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost, Is. dd. per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—It will be well to add, if the peas are not quite young, a little more sugar. Where economy is essential, water may be used instead of stock for this soup, boUing in it likewise the pea- shells ; but using a double quantity of vegetables. PEA SOUP, Winter (TeUow). Ingredients.—1 quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of shin beef, trimmings of meat or poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots, 2 turnips, 5 large onions, 1 head of celery, eeasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water, any bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock, or liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled. Mode.— Put the peas to soak over-night in soft water, and float off such as rise to the top. Boil them in the water till tender enough to pulp ; then add the ingre- dients mentioned above, and simmer for 2 hours, stirring it occasionally. Pass the whole thi-ough a sieve, skim well, season, and servo with toasted broad cut in dice. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable nil the year round, but more suitable for cold weather. Sufficient for 12 persona. PEACHES, Compote of. Ingredients.—1 p^nt of syrap, about 15 small peaches. i/oc{«.—Poaches that Peaches Preserved in Brandy are not very large, and that would not look well for dessert, answer very nicely for a compote. Divide the peaches, take out the stones, and pare the fruit; make a syrup by recipe, put in the peaches, and stew them gently for about 10 mi- nutes. Take them out without breaking, arrange them on a glass dish, boil tha syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, let it cool, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, it will be ready for table. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonalle in August and September. PEACH PBITTERS. Ingredients.—For the batter, J lb. of flour, ^ oz. of butter, J saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, peaches, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Make a nice smooth batter; skin, halve, and stone the peaches, which should be quite ripe; dip them in the batter, and fry the pieces in hot lard or clarified dripping, which should be boiling before the peaches are put in. From 8 to 10 mi- nutes will be required to fry them; when done, drain them before the fire. Dish them on a white d'oyley. Strew over plenty of pounded sugar and serve. Time.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry the fi-itters, 6 minutes to drain them. Ave- rage cost. Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and Sep- tember. PEACHES PKE SERVED IN BBANDY. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit weighed before being stoned, allow | lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar; brandy. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in dry weather ; wipe and weigh it, and remove the stones as carefully as possible, with- out injuring the peaches much. Put them into a jar, sprinkle amongst them pounded loaf sugar in the above propor- tion, and pour brandy over the fruit. Cover the jar down closely, place it in & saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and bring the brandy to the simmering, point, but do not allow it to boil. Take the fruit out carefully, without breaking it; put it into small jars, pour over it the brandy, and, when cold, exclude tlio air by covering the jars with bladders, or tissue-paper brushed over on both Bides with tho wliito of aa egg. Apricol-c243 THE DICTIONARY OJ' COOEEUY. Pears, Baked may be done in tbe same manner, and, if properly prepared, will be found deli- cious. Time.—From 10 to 20 minutes to bring tbe brandy to tbe simmering- point. Seasonable in August and Sep- tember. PEAHS, Baked. Iiigredienls.—12 pears, the rind of 1 lemon, 6 cloves, 10 whole allspice; to every pint of water allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the pears into halves, and, should they be very large, into quarters; leave the stalks on, and carefully remove the cores. Place them in a clean baking-jar, with a closely-fitting lid; add to them the lemon-rind cut in strips, the juice of ^ lemon, tha cloves, pounded allspice, and sufficient water just to cover the whole, with sugar in the above proportion. Cover the jar down closelj'', put it into a very cool oven, and bake the pears from 5 to 6 hoxirs, but be very careful that the oven is not too hot. To improve the colour of the frait, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added ; but this will not be found necessaiy, if the pears are very gently baked. Time.— Large pears, 5 to 6 hours, in a very slow oven. Average cost, Id. to 2d. each. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to Januaiy. PEAHS L'ALLEMANDE. Ingredients.—6 to 8 pears, water, su- far, 2 oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, ^ oz. of gelatine. J/ocZe.—Peel and cut the pears into any form that may be preferred, and steep them in cold water to prevent them turning black; put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and boil them with the butter and enough sugar to sweeten them nicely, until tender; then brush the pears over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle them -svith sifted sugar, and arrange them on a dish. Add the gela- tine to the syrup, boil it up quickly for about 5 minutes, strain it over the pears, and let it remain until sot. The syrup may be coloured with a little prepared cochineal, which would very much im- prove the appearance of the dish. Time. — From 20 minutes to ^ hour to stew the pears; 5 minutes to'boil the syrup. A verage cost, Is. M. Sufficient for a large dish. Seasonable from August to Fe- bruary, Pears, Stewed PEARS, Moulded. Ingredients.—4 large pears or 6 small ones, 8 cloves, sugar to taste, water, a small piece of cinnamon, \ pint of raisin wine, a strip of lemon-peel, the juice of ^ lemon, | oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Peel and cut the pears into quarters; put them into a jar with f pint of water, cloves, cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely; cover down the top of the jar, and bake the pears in a gentle oven imtil perfectly tender, but do not allow them to break. When done, lay the pears in a plain mould, which should be well wetted, and boil ^ pint of the liquor the pears were baked in with the wine, lemon-peel, strained juice, and gelatine. Let these ingre- dients boil quickly for 5 minutes, then strain the liquid wai-m over the pears; put the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is firm, turn it out on a glass dish. Time.—2 hours to bake the pears in a cool oven. Average cost, Is. 3(Z. Sufficient for a quart mould. Seasonable from August to February. PEARS, Preserved. Ingredients.—Jai-gonelle pears; to every lb. of sugar allow ^ pint of water. Mode.—Procure some Jargonelle pears, not too ripe ; put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer them till rather tender, but do not allow them to break ; then put them into cold water. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes, skim well, put in the pears, and simmer them gently for 5 minutes. Eepeat the sim- mering for 3 successive days, taking cai-e not to lot the fruit break. The last time of boiling, the syrup should be made rather richer, and the fruit boiled for 10 minutes. When the pears are done, drain them from the syrup, and dry them in the sun, or in a cool oven ; or they may be kept in the syrup, and dried as they are wanted. Time.—h hour to simmer tho pears in water, 20 minutes in the syrup. Average cost, Jd. to 2d. each. Seaso7ialle.—i/lQiit plentiful in September and October, PEARS, Stewed. Ingredients. — 8 largo pears, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, j pint of water, ^ pint of port wine, a few dropn of prepared cochiueaL Mode.—THE DICTIOXARY OF COOKERY. Peas, Boiled Green Pare the pears, halve thorn, remove the cores, and leave the stalks on j put them into a lined saucepan with the above ingredients, and let them simmer very gently until tender, which will be in from 3 to 4 hours, according to the qua- lity of the pears. They should be watched, and, when done, carefully lifted out on to a glass dish without brealiing them. Boil up the syrup quickly for 2 or 3 minutes; allow it to cool a little, pour it over the pears, and let them get perfectly cold. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added, which rather enhances the beauty of this dish. The fruit must not be boiled fast, but only simmered, and watched that it bo not too much done. Time.S to 4 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. Svfficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to January. PEAS, Boiled Green. Ingredienis.—Green peas; to each J gallon of water allow 1 small teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—This delicious vegetable, to bo eaten in perfection, should be young, and not gathered or shelled long be I ore it is dressed. Shell the peas, wash them well in cold water, and drain them ; then put them into a saucepan with plenty of fasl-boiling water, to which salt and vioist sugar have been added in the above proiDortion; let them boil quickly over a brisk fire, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered, and be careful that the smoke does not draw in. When tender, pour them into a colander ; put them into a hot vegetable-dish, and quite in the centre of the peas place a piece, of butter, the size of a walnut. Many cooks boil a small bunch of mint with the peas, or garnish them with it, by boiling a few sprigs in a saucepan by themselves. Should the peas be very old, and diflRcult to boil a good colour, a very tiny piece of soda may be thrown in the water previous to putting them in; but this must bo very sparingly used, as it causes the peas, when boiled, to have a smashed and broken appoar- Peas, Stevtred Green ance. With young peas, there is n' the slightest occasion to use it, Tiine.- ■ Young peas, 10 to 15 minutes; the larj ■ sorts, such as marrowfats, &c., 18 to I . minutes; old peas, ^ hour. Average cot ■ when cheapest, Qd. per peck ; when fir i in season, Is, to Is. Qd. per peck. Svj dent—Allow 1 peck of unshelled pej* for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Jui i to the end of Augiist. ; PEAS, Green, a la Francaise. Ingredienis.—2 quarts of green pea ' 3 oz. of fresh butter, a bunch of parsle; 6 green onions, flour, a small lump sugar, i teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoo; ful of'flour. Mode.—SheW sufiBciei , ; fresh-gathered peas to fill 2 quarts ; pi i them into cold water, with the abo^ proportion of butter, and stir them aboi ^ until they are well covered with tl butter; drain them in a colander, ar , put them in a stewpan, with the parsk and onions; dredge over them a lift i flour, stir the peas well, and moistc ■ them with boiling water; boil the quickly over a large fire for 20 minute ' or until there is no liquor remainin: Dip a small lump of sugar into sou - water, that it may soon melt; put with the peas, to which add h teaspoonf ; of salt. Take a piece of butter the si:: • of a walnut, work it together with a te. i spoonful of flour, and add this to tl. _ peas, which should be boiling when it i put in. Keep shaking the stewpan, ani. when the peas are nicely thickenei . dress them high in the dish, and serv i [ Time. — Altogether, J hour. Avera^ ,. cost, 6d. per peck. Sufficient for 4 or .' persons. Seasonable from June to tlj | end of August. ^ PEAS, Stewed Green. I Ingredients.—1 quart of peas, llettuc ; 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and sa to taste, 1 egg, J teaspoonful of powden i, sugar. Mode.—Shell the peas, and ci r the onion and lettuce into slices; p\ i \ these into a stewpan, with the butte 11 pepper, and salt, but with no more wut< • than that which hangs around tl lettuce from washing. Stew the who very genftly for rather more than 1 houi then stir in a well-beaten egg, ai: about i teaspoonful of powdered suga i j When tlic peas, &c., are nicely thickenec servo; but, after the egg is added, o not allow them to boil Time.—l^ hou-i |THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 215 Perch, Boiled iverar/e cost, 6cl. per peck. Sufficient or 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from June ;o the end of August. PEKCH, Boiled. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gallon )f water. Mode.—Scale the fish, take )ut the gills and clsan it thoroughly ; lay t in boiling water, salted as above, and limmer gently for 10 minutes. If the ish is very large, longer time must be illowed. Garnish with parsley, and serve vith plain melted butter, or Dutch sauce. J'erch do not preserve so good a flavour vhen stewed as when dressed in any ithcr way. Tivie.—Middling-sized perch, : hour. Seasonable from September to S'^ovember. Note.—Tench may be boiled the same n&y, and served with the same sauces, PEHCH, Fried, Ingredients.—Egg and bread cnimbs, lot lard. Mode.—Scale and clean the ish, brush it over with egg, and cover vith bread crumbs. Have ready some )oiling lard ; put the fish in, and fry a lice brown. Serve with plain melted )utter or anchovy sauce. Time.—10 ninutes. Seasonable from September to i^ovember. Note.—Fry tench in the same way, PEKCH, Stewed with Wiae. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of stock md sherry, 1 bay-leaf, 1 clove of garlic, I small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, salt to aste; thickening of butter and flour, lepper, grated nutmeg, h teaspoonful of mchovy sauce. Mode.—Scale the fish md take out the gills, and clean them ;horoughly; lay them in a stewpan with sufficient stock and sherry just to cover ;hem. Put in the bay-leaf, garlic, pars- ey, cloves, and salt, and simmer till ;ender. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, add a thickening of butter and flour, the pepper, nutmeg, ind the anchovy sauce, and stir it over the fire until somewhat reduced, when pour over the fish, and serve. Time.— A.bout 20 minutes. SeasonoMe from Sep- tember to November. PETITES BOUCHEE3. Ingredients.—6 oz. of sweet almonds, \ lb. of sifted sugar, the rind of ^ lemon, the white of 1 egg, puff-paste. Mode.— Pheasant, to Carve Blanch the almonds, and chop them fine ; rub the sugar on the lemon-rind, and pound it in a mortar; mix this with the almonds and the white of the egg. Roll some pufl'-paste out; cut it in any shape that maybe preferred, such as diamonds, rings, ovals, &c., and sjjread the above mixture over the paste. Bake the hon- ch(5es in an oven, not too hot, and serve cold. Time.—\ hour, or rather more. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for ^ lb. of puff-paste. Seasonable at any time. PHEASANT. If this bird be eaten three days after it has been killed, it then has no pecu- liarity of flavour; a pullet would be more relished, and a quail would surpass it in aroma. Kept, however, a proper length of time,—and this can be ascertained by a slight smell and change of colour,— then it becomes a highly-flavoured dish, occupying, so to speak, the middle dis- tance between chicken and venison. It is difficult to define any exact time to "hang" a pheasant; but any one pos- sessed of the instincts of gastronomical science, can at once detect the right moment when a pheasant should betaken down, in the same way as a good cook knows whether a bird should be removed from the spit, or have a turn or two more, PHEASANT, Broiled (a Breakfast or Luncheon Dish). Ingredients.—1 pheasant, a little lard, egg and bread crumbs, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the legs off at the first joint, and the remainder of the bird into neat pieces; put them into a frying* pan with a little lard, and when browned on both sides, and about half done, take them out and drain them; brush the pieces over with egg, and sprinkle with bread cmmbs with which has been mixed a good seasoning of cayenne and salt. Broil them over a moderate fire for about 10 minutes, or rather longer, and serve with mushroom-sauce, sauce piquante, or brown gravy, in which a few game- bones and trimmings have been stewed, rime.—Altogether ^ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. PHEASANT, to Carve, Fixing the fork in the breast, let th« carver cut slices from it in the direction^ THE DICTIONARY OF COOKER"?. 243 Pheasant Cutlets of the lines from 2 to 1: those are the prime pieces. If there be more guests to satisfy than these slices will serve, then let the legs and wings be disen- gaged in the same manner as described BOAST PHBASANT. in carving boiled fowl, the point where the wing joins the neckbone being care- fully found. The meri-ythought will come off in the same way as that of a fowl. The most valued parts are the same as those which are most considered in a fowl. PHEASANT CUTLETS. Ingredients.—2 or 3 pheasants, egg and bread crumbs, cayenne and salt to taste, brown gravy. Mode.—Procure 3 young pheasants that have been hung a few days; pluck, draw, and wipe them inside; cut them into joints ; remove the bones from the best of these; and the backbones, trimmings, &c., put into a stew),ian, with a little stock, herbs, vegetables, seasoning, &c., to make the gravy. Flatten and trim the cutlets of a good shape, egg and bread-crumb them, broil them over a clear fire, pile them high in the dish, and pour under them the gravy made from the bones, which should be strained, flavoured, and thickened. One of the small bones shoidd be stuck on the point of each cutlet. TLv^e.—10 minutes. Average cost, 2s. 6d. to 3.?. each. Sufficient for 2 entriSos. Seasonable <rom the 1st of October to the beginm-ug of February. PHEASANT, Boast. Ingredients.—Pheasant, flour, butter. Choosing o.nd trussing.—Old pheasants may bo'known oy the length and sharp- BOASI FHBASAiri. ness of their spurs ; in young ones they are short and blunt. The cock bird is l^enerally reckoned tho best, except Pheasant Soup when the hen is with egg. They sho hang some time before tbey are dressj as, if they are cooked fresh, the f!' will be exceedingly dry and tastelo- After the bird is plucked and draw wipe the inside with a damp cloth, ai truss it in the same manner as partri'i If the head is left on, as shown in tt engi-aving, bring it round under t! wing, and fix it on to the point of 1! skewer. Mode.—Roast it befoi-e a br! fire, keep it well basted, and flour ai froth it nicely. Serve with brown grav; a little of which should be poured rour the bird, and a tureen of bread sauc 2 or 3 of the pheasant's best tail-feathe are sometimes stuck in the tail as £ ornament; but the fashion is not muc to be commended. Time,—A to 1 hou according to the size. Average cot 25. &d. to 3is. each. Sufficient,—1 for dish. Seasonable from the 1st of Octob( to the beginning of February. If' PHEASANT. Hoast, BriUat S^i ; varin's Eecipe (ii la Saint Alliance). WhoD the pheasant is in good cond tion to be cooked, it should be pluckec and not before. The bird should the be stuffed in the following manner :- -f-" Take two snipes, and draw them, piittiu the bodies on one plate, and the liver. &c., on another. Take off the Hesh, an mince it finely with a little beef, lard, few truffles, pepper and salt to taste, an stuff the pheasant carefully with thi; Cut a slice of bread, larger considerabl than the bird, and cover it with the live &c., and a few truffles: an ancho-vy a:^ a little fresh tuttcr added to these " ; do no harm. Put the bread, &c., int the dripping-pan, and, when the bird : roasted, place it on the preparation, an , •■ surround it with Florida oranges. Do not be uneasy, Savariu adds, abov your dinner; for a ] iheasant served i ' this way is fit for beings better tli; men. The pheasant itself is a ver\- goi bird ; and, imbibing the dressing an the flavour of the trufHo and snipe, i becomes thrice better. PHEASANT SOUP. Ingredients.—2 pheaoants, J lb. of Iw* ter, 2 slices of ham, 2 largo onions slice A head of celery, the crumb of t^\ French rolls, the yolks of 2 eggs boik bard, salt and cayenuo to taste, a litttTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 247 Pickle, an Excellent unded mace, if liked; 3 quarts of )ck medium. Mode.—C\it up the easants, flour and braise them in the tter and bam till they are of a nice own, but not burnt. Put them in a iwpan, with the onions, celery, stock, (1 seasoning, and simmer for 2 hours, rain the soup ; pound the breasts with 0 crumb of the roll previously soaked, d the yolks of the eggs ; put it to the ip, give one boil, and serve. Time.— hours. Average cost, 2s. lOcZ. per •irt, or, if made with fragments of Id game, la. Seasonable from October February. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—Fragments, pieces and bones of Id game, may bo used to great advan- :^e in this soup, and then 1 pheasant 11 suffice. LCKLE, an Excellent. hiffredients.—Equal quantities of me- uni-sized onions, cucumbers, and sauce- ples; 1.3 tcaspoonful of salt, f teaspoon- 1 of cayenne, 1 wineglassful of soy, 1 neglassful of sherry ; \'inegar. 3Iode. Hlice sufficient cucumbers, onions, and pies to fill a pint stone jar, taking care cut the slices very thin; arrange them alternate l.iyers, adding at the same ne salt and cayenne in the above pro- rtion ; pour in the soy and wine, and 1 up with vinegar. It will be fit for e the day it is made. Seasonable in igUit and September. [CKLE, Indian (very Superior). Ingredients.—To each gallon of vine- r allow 6 cloves of garlic, 12 shalots, 2 icks of sliced horseradish, | lb. of uised ginger, 2 oz. of whole black pper, 1 oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of spice, 12 cloves, ^ oz. of cayenne, 2 . of mustard-seed, | lb. of mustard, 1 . of tvu"meric ; a white cabbage, caiili- wers, radishpods, French beans, ghor- ns, small round pickling-onions, nas- rtiums, capsicums, chilies, &c. Mode.— it the cabbage, which must be hard d white, into slices, and the cauli- wers into small branches; sprinkle It over them in a largo dish, and let em remain two days ; then dry them, d put them into a vei-y large jar, with rlic, shalots, horseradish, ginger, pep- ir, allfipice, and cloves, in the above oportions. Boil sufficient vinegar to ver them, which pour oyer^ and, when Pickle, Mixed cold, cover up to keep them free from dust. As the other things for the pickle ripen at dift'erent times, they may be added as they are ready : these will be radish- pods, French beans, gherkins, small onions, nasturtiums, capsicums, chilies, &c., &c. As these are procured, they must, first of all, be washed in a little cold vinegar, wiped, and then simply added to the other ingredients in the large jar, only taking care that they are covered by the vinegar. If more vinegar should be wanted to add to the pickle, do not omit first to boil it before adding it to the rest. When you have collected all the things you require, turn all out iu a large pan, and thoroughly mix them. Now put the mixed vegetables into smaller jars, without any of the vinegar; then boil the vinegar again, adding as much more as will be required to fill the different jars, and also cayenne, mus- tard-seed, turmeric, and mustard, which must be well mixed with a little cold vinegar, allowing the quantities named above to each gallon of vinegar. Pour the vinegar, boiling hot, over the pickle, and when cold, tie down with a bladder. If the pickle is wanted for immediate use, the vinegar should be boiled twice more, but the better way is to make it dm-ing one season for use during the next. It will keep for yeirs, if cai'e is taken that the vegetables are quite covered by the vinegar. This recipe was taken from the di- rections of a lady whose pickle was always pronounced excellent by all who tasted it, and who has, for many years, exactly followed the recipe given above. Note.—For small families, perhaps the above quantity of pickle will be con- sidered too large ; but this may be de- creased at pleasure, taking care to pro- perly proportion the various ingredients. PICKLE, Mixed (very good). Ingredients,—To each gallon of -vine- gar allow i lb. of bruised ginger, | lb. of mustard, | lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard- seed, li oz. of tm-mei-ic, 1 oz. of ground black pepper, ^ oz. of cayenne, cauli- flowers, onions, celery, sliced cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nasturtiums, capsicums. Mode.—EaNe a largo jai-, with a lightly-fitting lid, in which put as much vinegar as required, rf^rving a little to mix the various powders to a Bmooth paste. Put into a basin248 TUE DICTIONARY OP COOKEEY. Piokle for Tongues or Beef mustard, turmeric, popper, and cayenne; mix them with vinegar, and stir well until no lumps remain ; add all the in- gredients to the vinegar, and mix well. Keep this liquor in a warm place, and thoroughly stir every morning for a month with a wooden spoon, when it will bo ready for the different vegetables to be added to it. As these come into sea- son, have them gathered on a dry day, and, after merely wiping them with a cloth, to free them from moisture, put them into the pickle. The cauliflowers, it may be said, must be divided into small bunches. Put all these into the pickle raw, and at the end of the sea- son, when there have been added as many of the vegetables as could be pro- cured, store it away in jars, and tie over with bladder. As none of the ingre- dients are boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat till 12 months have elapsed. Whilst the pickle is being made, keep a wooden spoon tied to the jar; and its contents, it may be repeated, must be stirred every morning. Seasonable.— Make the pickle-liquor in May or June, as the season arrives for the various vegetables to be picked. PICKLE for Tongues or Beef (Newmarket Eecipe). Ingredients.—1 gallon of soft water, 3 lbs. of coarse salt, 6 oz. of coarse brown sugar, i oz. of saltpetre. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and let them boil for ^ an hour, clear off the Bcum as it rises, and when done pour the pickle into a pickling-pan. Let it get cold, then put in the meat, and allow it to remain in pickle from 8 to 14 days, according to the size. It will keep good for 6 months if well boiled once a fort- night. Tongues will take 1 month or 6 weeks to be properly cured; and, in salting meat, oeef and tongues should always be put in separate vessels. Time.— A moderate-sized tongue should remain in the pickle about a month, and bo turned every day. PICKLE, Universal. Ingredients.—To 6 quarts of vinegar bIIow 1 lb. of salt, I lb. of ginger, 1 oz. of niaco, i lb. of shalots, 1 tablespoonful of cayenne, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, 1.^ oz. of turmeric. Mode.—^o\\ all the ingre- dients together for about 20 minutes ; whoa cold, put thorn into a jar with Picnic, Bill of Fare for whatever vegetables you choose, i ■ -? as radish-pods, French beans, c; - ' flowers, gherkins, &c. &c., as these c ^ into season ; put them in fresh as gather them, having previously wi: IC! them perfectly free from moisture r grit. This pickle will be fit for us-.- , about 8 or 9 months. Time.—20 mini. Seasonable.—Make the pickle in Ma June, to bo ready for tho various v<i ^ tables. Note.—As this pickle takes 2 c -'^ months to make,—that is to say, ne that time will elapse before all the di ent vegetables are added,—care mus ' taken to keep the jar which cont " the pickle well covered, either wit 7 closely-fitting lid, or a piece of blac • securely tied over, so as perfectly. exclude the air. "'■ PICKLES. '% Although pickles may be purchase T shops at as low a rate as they can usu be made for at home, or perhaps t for less, yet we would advise all ho ... wives, who have sufficient time and > ■ h venience, to prepare their own. only general rules, perhaps, worth £ ., ing here,—as in the recipes all ne " sary details will be explained—are, 1 K the vegetables and fruits used shoul( -i sound, and not over-ripe, and that very best vinegar should bo employee .5 PICNIC FOR 40 PERSONS, :' of Fare for. A joint of cold roast beef, a joir cold boiled beef, 2 ribs of lam I - shoulders of lamb, 4 roast fowls, 2 r^ ? ducks, 1 ham, 1 tongue, 2 veal-and-1 pies, 2 pigeon pies, 6 medium-s lobsters, 1 piece of collared calf's h( 18 lettuces, 6 baskets of salad, 6 cue bers. Stewed fruit well sweetened, and ' into glass bottles well corked ; 3 1 dozen plain pastry biscuits to eat t ' the stowed fruit, 2 dozen fruit tumov 4 dozen cheesecakes, 2 cold cabinet 1 dings in moulds, 2 blancmanges > moulds, a few iam puffs, 1 largo « ■, Elum-pudding (this must be good), a askets of fresh fruit, 3 dozen plain . cuits, a piece of cheese, 6 lbs. of bu ; (this, of course, includes the butter * tea), 4quartern loaves of household bp ; 3 dozen rolls, 6 loaves of tin bread tea), 3 plain plum cakes, 2 pound ca ;mt fitCTlONAEY OP COOKERY. icnic, Things not to be forgotten iponge cakes, a tin of mixed biscuits, b. of tea. Coflfee is not suitable for a inic, being difficult to make, [CNIC, Things not to be forgotten at. \, stick of horseradish, a bottle of Qt-sauce well corked, a bottle of salad jssing, a bottle of vinegar, made mus- d, pepper, salt, good oil, and pounded rar. If it can be managed, take a little . It is scarcely necessary to say that .tes, tumblers, wine-glasses, knives, ks, and spoons, must not be forgotten ; also teacups and saucers, 3 or 4 tea- s, some lump sugar, and milk, if this ;-named article cannot be obtained in 1 neighbourhood. Take 3 corkscrews. "everages.— 3 dozen quart bottles of , packed in hampers; ginger-beer, a-water, and lemonade, of each 2 ;en bottles; 6 bottles of sherry, 6 bot- 5 of claret, champagne h discretion, I any other light wine that may be ferred, and 2 bottles of brandy, iter can usually be obtained, so it is less to take it. G, Sucking, to Carve. I sucking-pig seems, at first sight, her an elaborate dish, or rather mal, to carve ; but by carefully mas- ing the details of the business, every iculty will vanish; and if a partial ure be at first made, yet all embar- sment will quickly disappear on a ond trial. A sucking-pig is usually t to table in the manner shown in the graving, and the first point to be BrcKiira-riG. ended to is to separate the shoulder rn the carcase, by carrying the knife ckly and neatly round the circular 3, as shown by the figures 1, 2, 3;— ! shoulder will then easily come away. . 0 next step is to take off the leg ; and . 3 is done in the same way, by cutting ind this joint in the direction shown the figures i, 2, 3, in the same way Pig, Sucking, Boast as the shoulder. The ribs then stand fairly open to tho knife, which should be carried down in the direction of the line 4 to 5 ; and two or three helpings will dispose of these. The other half of the pig is served, of course, in tho same manner. Different parts of the pig are variously esteemed; some preferring the flesh of the neck ; others, the ribs ; and others, again, the shoulders. The truth is, the whole of a sucking-pig is deli- cious, delicate eating ; but, in carving it, the host should consult the various tastea and fancies of his guests, keeping the larger joints, generally, for the gentle- men of the party. PIGr, Sucking, Roast. Ingredients. — Pig, 6 oz. of bread crumbs, 16 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salad oil or butter to baste with, about ^ pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—A sucking-pig, to be eaten in perfection, should not be more than three weeks old, and should be dressed the same day that it is killed. After preparing the pig for cooking, aa in the following recipe, stuff it with EOAST SUCZUfG-Pia. finely-grated bread crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter tlie size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and put into the body of the pig. Sew up the slit neatly, and truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, and the under part to be crisp. Put the pig down to a bright clear fire, not too near, and let it lay till thoroughly dry ; then have ready some butter tied up in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. Keep it well rubbed with tho butter tho whole of tho time it is roast- ing, and do not allow the crackling to become blistered or burnt. When half- done, hang a pig-iron before the middle part (if this is not obtainable, use a flat iron), to prevent its being scorched anci250 The DICTlONAUt OF COOKERY. Pif?, Sucking, to Scald a dried up boforo tho ends are done. Boforo it is taken from tho fire, cut off tlio liead, and part that and tho body down tho middle. Chop the brains and mix them with the stuffing ; add ^ pint cf good gravy, a tablespoonful of lemon- juice, and the gravy that flowed from the pig ; put a little of this on tho dish with the pig, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Place the jDig back to back in the disfa, with one half of the Lead on each side, and one of the ears at each end, and send it to table as hot as possible. Instead of butter, many cooks take salad oil for basting, which makes the crackling crisp; and as this is one of the principal things to be considered, perhaps it is desirable to use it; but be particular that it is very pure, or it will impart an unpleasant flavour to the meat. The brains and stuffing may be stirred into a tureen of melted butter instead of gravy, when the latter is not liked. Apple sauce and tho oid-fashioned cur- rant sauce are not yet quite obsolete as an accompaniment to roast pig. Time.— 1^ to 2 hours for a small pig. Average cost, 5s. to 6s. Siofficient for 9 or 10 per- sons. Heasonahle from September to February. PIG, Sucking, to Scald a. Put the pig into cold water directly it is killed; let it remain for a few minutes, then immerse it in a large pan of boiling water for 2 minutes. Take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off tho hair as quickly as possible. When the skin looks clean, make a slit down the belly, take out tho entrails, well clean the nos- trils and cars, wash the pig in cold water, and wipe it thoroughly dry. Take off tho feet at the first joint, and loosen and leave sufficient skin to turn neatly over. If not to bo dressed im- mediately, fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. PIGS' CHEEKS, to Dry. Inf/redients.—Scdt, .J oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of bay-salt, 4 oz. of coarse sugar, Jifode.—Cut out tho snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bono to make tho jowl a good shape ; rub it well with salt; next day tako away the brine, and salt it again tho following day ; cover the head with * Baltpotro; baj'-salt> and coai-so sugar, in Pig's Face, Collared — =Ii the above proportion, adding a lit /, common salt. Let the hexd bo olt r« turned, and when it has been in t , pickle for 10 days, smoke it for a we '. or rather longer. 7ime.—To remain tho pickle 10 daja; to bo smoked j_ week. Seasonable. — Should be ma ;; from September to March. JVote.—A pig's check, or Bath chr i will require two hours'cooking after t .i water boils, : PIG'S PACE, Collared (a Ereakff; or Luncheon Dish). Ingredients.—1 pig's face ; salt. I • brine, 1 gallon of spring water, 1 of common salt, ^ handful of chopi; ii( jimiper-berries, 6 bruised cloves, 2 b; leaves, a few sprigs of thyme, ba: ■ sage, \ oz. of saltpetre. For forcenie /; \ lb. of ham, \ lb. bacon, 1 teaspoon l.. of mixed spices, pepper to taste, \ lb. j lard, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsli. s 6 young onions. Mode.—Singe the hcj carefully, bone it without breaking 1: :g skin, and rub it well with salt. M: the brine by boiling tho above ing. ,; ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^''^l^^' J I PIG'S PACB. head, t let it sti in this for 10 days, turning and rubb: it often. Then wipe, drain, and dry For the forcemeat, pound tho ham a bacon very finely, and mix with th the remaining ingredients, taking C! ; that the whole is thoroughly incor; > rated. Spread this equally over i > head, roll it tightly in a cloth, and bi -,; it securely with broad tape. Put it ii ■ a saucepan with a few meat trimmin ; and cover it with stock ; let it simn ; gently for 4 hours, and be particular tl it does not stop boiling the whole tic i When quite tender, t^ike it up, ^, it between 2 dishes with a heavy weijv on tho top, and when cold, remove i cloth and tape. It should be sent table on a napkin, or garnished w a piece of deep white paper with a rr,> at the top. Time.—ii hours. Aver' cost, from 2s. to 2», U. Seatonahlt Ir. October to March,251 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUT. Pig's Fry, to Dress IG'S PBY, to Dress. InjrecUents.—l^ lb. of pig's fry, 2 lions, a few sage leaves, 3 lbs. of 3tatoes, pepper and salt to taste. fo(/g._Put the lean fry at the bottom ■ a pio dish, sprinkle over it some iuced sage and onion, and a seasoning pepper and salt; slice the potatoes; it a layer of these on the seasonings, en the fat-fry, then more seasoning, id a layer of potatoes at the top. 11 the dish with boiling water, and ike for 2 hours, or rather longer.' liiig^—Rather more than 2 hours. Ave- ge cost, Qd. per lb. Sufficient for 3 or persons. Seasonable from September March, IG-'S LIVEB, (a Savoury and Eco- nomical Dish). Ingredients.—The liver and lights of a g, 6 or 7 slices Of bacon, potatoes, large bunch of parsley, 2 onions, 2 go leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a ,tle broth or water. Mode.—Slice the •er and lights, and wash these perfectly 3an, and parboil the potatoes ; mince 0 parsley and sago, and chop the onion ther small. Put the meat, potatoes, id bacon into a deep tin dish, in alter- ,te layers, with a sprinkling of the rbs, and a seasoning of pepper and It between each ; pour on a little water broth, and bake in a moderately-heated on for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Ave- ge cost, 1.?. 6tZ. Sufficient for 6 or 7 rsons. Secisonalle from September to arch. IG'S PETTITOES. Ingredients.—A thin slice of bacon, jnion, 1 blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, ■yy 4 sprigs of thyme, 1 pint of gravy, pper and salt to taste, thickening of Lutcr and flour. Mode.—Put the liver, ui t, and pettitoes into a stowpan with e bacon, mace, peppercorns, thyme, ion, and gravy, and simmer these ntly for \ hour; then take out the art and liver, and mince them very 10. Keep stewing the feet until quite rider, which will be in from 20 minutes hour, reckoning from the time that ey boiled up first; then put back the iiiwd livor, thicken the gravy with little butter and flour, season with pper and salt; aud simmer over a gentle Pigeon Pie fire for 5 minutes, occasionally stirring the contents. Dish the mince, split the feet, and arrange them round alternately with sippets of toasted bread, and pour tho gravy in the middle. Time.—Alto- gether 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from September to March. PIGEOIT, to Carve. A very straightforward plan is adopted in carving a pigeon : the knife is caiTied sharply in the ^^gjj^^ A direction of tho ''^^^^mK^^'^ shown fi'om 1 to 2, en. ^^^^^^^^^ tirely _ through PIGEON. ting it into two precisely equal and similar parts. If it is necessary to make three pieces of it, a small wing should be cut oif with the leg on either side, thus serving two guests ; and, by this means, there will be sufficient meat left on the breast to send to the third guest. PIGEON PIE (Epsom Grand-Stand Kecipe). Ingredients.—li lb. of rump-steak, 2 or 3 pigeons, 3 slices of ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, puff crust. Mode.—Cut the steak into pieces about 3 inches square, and with it line the bottom of apie-di.ih, seasoning it well with pepper and sale. Clean the pigeons, rub them with pepper and salt inside and out, and put into the body of each rather more than ^ oz. of butter ; lay them on the steak, and a piece of ham on each pigeon. Add the yolks of four eggs, and half fill tho dish with stock ; place a border of puff paste round the edge of tliy dish, put on the cover, and ornament it in any way that may bo pre- ferred. Clean three of tho feet, and place them in a hole made in the crust at the top : this shows what kind of pie it is. Glaze tho crust,—that is to say, brush it over with the yolk of an egg,— and bake it in a well-heated oven for about 1^ hour. When liked, a season- ing of pounded mace may be added. Time.—l.j hour, or rather less. Averagt cost, 63. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 porsoua. Seasonable at any time,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 252 Pigeons, Broiled PIGEONS, BroUed. Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Take care that the pigeons are quite fresh, and carefully pluck, draw, and wash them ; liplit the backs, rub the birds over with butter, season them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a moderate fire for ^ hour or 20 minutes. Serve very hot, with either mushroom-sauce or a good gravy. Pigeons may also be plainly boiled, and served with parsley and butter; they should be trussed like boiled fowls, and take from ^ hour to 20 minutes to boil. Time.—To broil a pigeon, from J hour to 20 minutes; to boil one, the same time. Average cost, from 6d. to 9d. each. Seasonable from April to September, but in the greatest perfection from Midsummer to Michael- mas. PIGEONS, Hoast. Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Trussing.— Pigeons, to be good, should be eaten fresh (if kept a little, the flavour goes ofiF), and they should be drawn as soon as killed. Cut off the heads and necks, truss the wings over the backs, and cut off the toes at the first joint: previous to trussing, they should be carefully cleaned, as no bird requires so much washing. BOASI FIGEOir. Mode.—Wipe the birds very dry, season them inside with pepper and salt, and put about ^ oz. of butter into the body of each: this makes them moist. Place them at a bright fire, and baste them well the whole of the time they are cooking (they will be done enough in from 20 to 30 minutes); garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a tureen of parsley and butter. Bread sauce and gravy, the same as for roast fowl, are exceedingly nice accompaniments to roast pigeons, as also egg-sauce. Time.—From 20 minutes to J hour. Average cost, 6d. to yd. each. Seasonable from April to September; but in the gi'eatest perfec- tion from Midsummer to Michaelmas, Pike, Boiled PIGEONS, Stewed. Ingredients.—Q pigeons, a few slices c bacon, 3 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonful of minced parsley, sufficient stock t cover the pigeons, thickening of buttc and flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushrooi ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port wint Mode.—Empty and clean the pigeor thoroughly, mince the Jivers, add t these the parsley and butter, and put into the insidcs of the birds. Tru: them with the legs inward, and put the; into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacc placed under and over them; add tl stock, and stew gently for rather mo: than ^ hour. Dish the pigeons, stra the gravy, thicken it with butter af. flour, add the ketchup and port win give one boil, pour over the pigeons, ai serve. Time.—Rather more than ^ hou Average cost, 6d. to 9d. each. Sufficu. for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fro April to September. PIKE, Baked. Ingredients.—1 or 2 pike, a nice dea -rt cate stuffing (see Forcemeats), 1 egj bread crumbs, | lb. butter. Mode. Scale the fish, take out the gills, wassfta and wipe it thoroughly dry ; stuff: with forcemeat, sew it up, and fast; the tail in the mouth by means of' skewer; brush it over with egg, sprinl with bread crumbs, and baste w butter, before putting it in the o\' which must bo well heated. When ; pike is of a nice brown colour, co- it with buttered paper, as the outb would become too dry. If 2 are dressi a little variety may be made by maki one of them green with a little chopj ■ parsley mixed with the bread crum Serve anchovy or Dutch sauce, and p! melted butter with it. Time.—Acco ing to size, 1 hour, more or less. A rage cost.—Seldom bought. Seasonc from September to March. iS''o<e,—Pike d la aenevese may stewed in the same manner as salmo la ginivese. PIKE, Boiled. Ingredients.—i lb. of salt to e gallon of water ; a little vinegar. J/' —Scale and clean the pike, and faf the tail in its mouth by means o skewer. Lay it in cold water, and w it boils, throw in the salt and vine, tTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 253 Pillau Fowl e time for boiling depends, of course, the size of the fish; but a middling- 3d pike will take about ^ an hour, •ve with Dutch or anchovy sauce, and in melted butter, rme.—According size, to 1 hour. Average cosi.—Sel- n bought Seasonable from September March. ;LIiA.U fowl, based on M. Soy- er's Kecipe (an Indian Disli). 'ngredients.—\ lb. of rice, 2oz. of but- , a fowl, 2 quarts of stock or good )th, 40 cardamum-seeds, ^ oz. of cori- ier-seed, \ oz. of cloves, | oz. of ipice, \ oz. of mace, | oz. of cinnamon, )z, of peppercorns, 4 onions, 6 thin ies of bacon, 2 hard-boiled eggs. icZc—Well wash 1 lb. of the best tna rice, put it into a frying-pan with I butter, which keep moving over slow fu-e until the rice is lightly iwned. Truss the fowl as for boiling, 1 it into a stewpan with the stock broth ; pound the spices and seeds roughly in a mortar, tie them in iece of muslin, and put them in with 1 fowl. Let it boil slowly until it learly done ; then add the rice, which uld stew until quite tender and almost '; cut the onions into slices, sprinkle m with flour, and fiy, without break- them, of a nice brown colour. Have dy the slices of bacon curled and led, and the eggs boiled hard. Lay fowl in the form of a pyramid upon a J, smother with the rice, garnish with bacon, fried onions, and the hard- led eggs cut into quarters, and serve y hot. Before taking the rice out, love the spices. Time.—^ hour to IV the fowl without the rice; ^ hour h it. Average cost, 4s. del. Sufficient 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any e. NEAPPLE CHIPS. ngredients. — Pineapples; sugar to ;e. Mode.—Pare and slice the fruit ily, put it on dishes, and strew over lenty of pounded sugar. Keep it in lOt closet, or very slow oven, 8 or 10 s, and turn the fruit every day until ; then put the pieces of pine on tins, place them in a quick oven for 10 lutes. Let them cool, and store them ly in dry Vjoxcs, with paper between h layer. Tme.—& to 10 days. Sea- Pineapple, Preserved sonable.—Foreign pines, in July land August. PINEAPPLE FBITTEKS (an elegant disti). Ingredients. — A small pineapple, a small wineglassful of brandy or liqueur, 2 oz. of sifted sugar; batter as for apple fritters, which see. Mode.—1\na elegant dish, although it may appear extrava- gant, is really not so if made when pine- apples are plentiful. We receive them now in such large quantities from tho West Indies, that at times they may be purchased at an exceedingly low ra,te; it would not, of course, be economical to use the pines which are grown in our English pineries for the purposes of fritters. Pare the pine with as little waste as possible, cut it into rather thin slices, and soak these slices in the above proportion of brandy or liqueiu* and pounded sugar for 4 hours; then make a batter the same as for apple fritters, substituting cream for the milk, and using a smaller quantity of flour; when this is ready, dip in the pieces of pine, and fry them in boiling lard from 5 to 8 minutes; turn them when suffi- ciently brown on one side, and, when done, drain them from the lard before the fire, dish them on a white d'oyley, strew over them sifted sugar, and serve quickly. Time.—5 to 8 minutes. Aee- rage cost, when cheap and plentifiil. Is. 6d. for the pine. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in J uly and August. PINEAPPLE, Preserved. Ingredients. — To every lb. of fruit, weighed after being pared, allow 1 lb, of loaf sugar ; ^ pint of water. Mode.— The pines for making this preserve should be perfectly sound but ripe. Cut thens into rather thick slices, as the ftnit shrinks very much in the boiling. Pare off the rind carefully, that none of the pine be wasted ; and, in doing so, notch it in and out, as the edge cannot be smoothly cut without great waste. Dis- solve a portion of the sugar in a preserv- ing-pan with I pint of water; when this is melted, gradually add the remainder of the sugar, and boil it until it forms a clear syrup, skimming well. As soon as this is the case, put in the pieces of pine, and boil well for at least ^ hour, or until it looks nearly transparent. Put it into pots, cover down when cold, and store254, THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Pineapple, Preserved away in a dry place. Time.—h hour to boil the fruit. Average cost, lOtZ. to Is. per lb. pot. Seasonable,—Foreign pines, in July and August. PINEAPPLE, Preserved, for pre- sent use. Ingredients.—Pineapple, sugar, water. Mode.—Cut the pine into slices ^ inch in thickness; peel them, and remove the hard part from the middle. Put the parings and hard pieces into a stewpan, ■with sufficient water to cover them, and boil for I hour. Strain the liquor, and put in the slices of pine. Stew them for 10 minutes, add sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely, and boil again for another | hour ; skim well, and the Eresei-ve will be ready for use. It must e eaten soon, as it will keep but a very short time. Time.—| hour to boil the parings in water ; 10 minutes to boil the pine without sugar, \ hour with sugar. Average cost.—Foreign pines, Is. to Zs. each ; English, from 2s. to 12s. per lb. Seasonable.—Foreign, in July and Au- gust ; English, all the year. PIPPINS, Normandy, Stewed. Ingredients.—1 lb. of Norjiandy pip- pins, 1 quart of water, ^ teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, i tea=poonful of 8:round ginger, 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lemon. Mode.—Well wash tht pippins, and put them into 1 quart of water with the above proportion of cinnamon and ginger, and let them stand 12 hours; then put these all together into a stew- Ean, with the lemon sliced thinly, and alf the moist sugar. Let them boil slowly until the pippins are half done; then add the remainder of the sugar, and simmer until they are quite tender. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time. —2 to 3 hours. Average cost, Is. Qd. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. PLAICE, Fried. Ingredients. — Hot lard, or clarified dripping ; egg and bread crumbs. Mode.—This fish is fried in the same manner as soles. Wash and wipe them thoroughly dry, and let them remain in a cloth until it is time to di'ess them. Brush them over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs mixed with a little flour. Fry of a nice brown in hot drip- ping or lard, and garnish with fried v'm » Plovers, to Dress sley and cut lemon. Send them to tal with shrimp-sauce and plain melt butter. Time.—About 5 minutes. A rage cost, dd. each. Seasonalle frc May to November. Sufficient, 4 pla: for 4 persons. Note.—Plaice may be boiled pla and served with melted butter. (Jarn; with parsley and cut lemon, PLAICE, Stewed. Ingredients.—4 or 5 plaice, 2 onio ^ oz. ground ginger, 1 pint of lem- juice, I pint water, 6 oggs; cayenne taste. Mode.—Cut the fish into pie about 2 inches wide, salt them, and them remain I hour. Slice and fry 11 onions a light brown; put them ii stewpan, on the top of which put • ■ fish without washing, and add theginp lemon-juice, and water. Cook slo' for ^ hour, and do not let the fish b , or it will break. Take it out, and wl. the.liquor is cool, add 6 well-beaten eg; simmer till it thickens, when pour O' i the fish, and serve. Time.—^ he Average cost for this quantity. Is. Seasonable from May to Novemla Sxifficient for 4 or 5 persons; acoordinf. the size of the fish. PLOVEHS, to Carve. Plovers may be car^'ed like quaili! woodcock, being trussed and servefr. the same way as those birds. PLOVEHS, to Dress. Ingredients.—3 plovers, butter, fl( toasted bread. Choosing and Truss —Choose those that feel hard at the y> as that shows their fatness. There three sorts,—the grey, green, and 1 tard plover, or l.ipwing. They will k good for some time, but if very st the feet will be very diy. Plo\ cr> scarcely fit for anj'thing but ro >;i they are, however, sometimes Etcwcc made into a rago6t, but this mod< cooking is not to be rccommem Mode.—Pluck off the feathers, ^ the outside of the birds with a d: cloth, and do not draw them ; truss i the head under the wing, put the ^ <i to a clear fire, and lay slices of nii ti toast in the dripping-pan, to c:ri!i trail. Keep them kcII baftfd, 'i' them lightly with flour a few i before they ai'e done, And let tb-^uTfiE DiCTIONARY OF C00ltEB,t. 255 Plum Cake, Common licely frothed. Dish them on the toasts, iver which tbe traill should be eqxially ;pread. Pour round the toast a little ;ood gravy, and send some to table in a iureen. Time.—\Q minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, Is. 6rf. the brace, if plen- ,iful. Sufficient for 2 persons. Season- lUe.—ln perfection from the beginning )f September to the end of January. PLUM CAKE, Common. Ingredienis.—d lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter or good dripping, 6 oz. of moist jugar, 6 oz. of currants, ^ oz. of pounded illspice, 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast, . pint of new milk. Mode.—Rub the )utter into the flour; add the sugar, iurrants, and allspice; warm tho milk, tir to it the yeast, and mix the whole nto a dough ; knead it well, and put it nto 6 buttered tins ; place them near the ire for nearly an hour for the dough to ise, then bake the cakes in a good oven rom 1 to 1:| hour. To ascertain when hey are done, plunge a clean knife into he middle, and if on withdrawal it comes ut clean, the cakes are done. Time.— to 1;^ hour. Average cost, Is. %d. 'xifficient to make 6 small cakes. >LUM CAKE, a Nice. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, \ lb, of utter, ^ lb. of sugar, \ lb. of currants, oz. of candied lemon-peel, ^ pint of lilk, 1 teaspoonful of ammoma or car- onate of soda. Mode.—Put the flour ito a basin with the sugar, currants, id sliced candied peel; beat the butter ) a cream, and mix all these ingredients )gether with the milk. Stir the am- onia into 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; add to tho dough, and beat the whole well, itil everything is thoroughly mixed. Lit the dough into a buttered tin, and xke the cake from li to 2 hours. Time. ; to 2 hours. Average cost, If. Zd. ',asonable at any time. LTJM JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of plums, signed before being stoned, allow ^ lb. loaf sugar. Mode.—In making plum m, the quantity of sugar for each lb. fruit must bo regulated by the quality id size of tho fruit, some plums rcquir- g much more sugar than others. Divide 0 plums, take out tho stones, and put cm on to largo dishes, with roughly- 'unded sugar sprinkled over them in Plum Pudding, Excellent the above proportion, and lot them re- main for one day ; then put them into a preserving-pan, stand them by the sido of the fire to simmer gently for about .J hour, and then boil them rapidly for another 15 minutes. The scum must be carefully removed as it rises, and thL jam must be well stirred all the time, or it will bum at the bottom of tno pan, and so spoil the colour and flavour of tho presei-ve. Some of the stones may be cracked, and a few kernels added to the jam just before it is done : these impart a very delicious flavour to the plums. The above proportion of sugar would answer for Orleans plums; the Imp€ra- trice, Magnum-bonum, and Winesour would not require quite so much. Time, h hour to simmer gently, ^ hour to boil rapidly. Best plums for preserving.— Violets, Mussels, Orleans, Imp€ratrice, Magnum-bonum, and Winesour. Seaso7i- aUe from the end of July to the begin- ning of October, PLUM PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, a few slices of candied peel. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix it with the flour, currants, stoned raisins, and candied pool; moisten with the well-beaten eggs, and add sufii- cient milk to make the pudding of tho consistency of very thick batter. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a good oven from 2\ to 2^ hours ; tm-n it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. For a very plain pudding, use only half the quantity of fruit, omit the eggs, and sixb- stitute milk or water for them. The above ingi-edients make a large family pudding ; for a small one, half the quan- tity will Ije found ample ; but it must be baked quite 1^ hour. Time.—Large pudding, 2^ to '2h hours; half tho size, Ih hour. Average cost, 2s. M. Sufji- cunt for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in ■winter. PLUM PUDDmG.Excellent.mad© ■without Eggs. Ingredients.—h lb. of flour, 6 oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of currants, lb. of chopped suet, ,+ lb. of brown sugar, | lb. of mashea carrot, ;J lb. of mashed potatoes, 1 tahlespoonful of treacle, 1 oz. of can- died lemon-peel, 1 oz. of candied citron. Mode,—Mix tho flour, currants, suet and256 Plum Pudding, Unrivalled BUgar well together; have ready the aliove proportions of mashed carrot and potato, which stir into the other ingre- dients ; add the treacle and lemon-peel; but put no liquid in the mixture, or it will be spoiled. Tie it loosely in a cloth, or, if put in a basin, do not quite fill it, as the pudding should have room to swell, and boil it for 4 hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. This pudding is better for being mixed over-night. Time.— i hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in winter. PLUM PUDDING, Unrivalled. Ingredients. — IJ lb. of muscatel raisms, IJ lb. of currants, 1 lb. of sul- tana raisins, 2 lbs. of the finest moist sugar, 2 lbs. of bread crumbs, 16 eggs, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel, the rind of 2 lemons, 1 oz. of ground nutmeg, 1 oz. of ground cinnamon, i oz. of pounded bitter al- monds, \ pint of brandy. Ifode.—Stone and cut up the raisins, but do not chop them; wash and dry the currants, and cut the candied peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry ingredients well together, and moisten with the eggs, which should be weU beaten and strained, to the pud- ding ; stir in the brandy, and, when all is thoroughly mixed, well butter and flour a stout new pudding-cloth; put in the pudding, tie it down very tightly and closely, boil from 6 to 8 hours, and serve with brandy-sauce. A few sweet almonds, blanched and cut in strips, and stuck on the pudding, orna- ment it prettily. This quantity may be divided and boiled in buttered moulds. For small families this is the most desir- able way, as the above will be found to make a pudding of rather large dimen- sions. Time.—Q to 8 hours. Average cost, 7s. 6d. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 or 14 persons. 'A^ote.—The muscatel raisins can be purchased at a cheap rate loose (not in bunches) : they are then scarcely higher in price than the ordinary raisins, and impart a much richet' flavour to the pudding. PLUM PUDDING, a Plain Christ- mas, for Children. Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, 1 lb. of bread crumbs, f lb. of stoned raisins, f lb. of currants, ^ lb. of suet, 3 o- 4 eggs, Plum Pudding, Christmas milk, 2 oz. of candied peel, 1 teaspooi ful of powdered allspice, ^ saltspoonfi of salt. Mode.—Let the suet be finel chopped, the raisins stoned, and the cu rants well washed, picked and driec Mix these with the other dry ingredient and stir all well together; beat ar strain the eggs to the pudding, stir the: in, and add just sufficient milk to mal it mix properly. Tie it up in a we': floured cloth, put it into boiling wate and boil for at least 5 hours. Ser- with a sprig of holly placed in the mi die of the pudding, and a little pound< ■ sugar fsprinkled over it. Time.—5 hour- Average cost. Is. 9d. Sufficient for 9 . 10 children. Seasonable at Christmas.. PLUM PUDDING, Christmas (vei. good). Ingredients.—II lb. of raisins, h lb. currants, h lb. of mixed peel, ^ lb. of brea .i crumbs, f'lb. of suet, 8 eggs,l wineglassl^i of brandy. iV/orfe.—Stone and cut the rr sins in halves, butdonotchop them; was^ pick, and dry the currants, and min: the suet finely ; cut the candied peel in:^ thin sUces, and grate down the breo; into fine crumbs. When all these dry i: gredients are prepared, mix them w^^ together ;■ then moisten the mixture wi . the eggs, which should be well beateo CHKISTMAS rLTSI PCBDISG IS MOTJI.B»' and the brandy; stir well, that eve thing may be very thoroughly blend .< and'nrm the pudding into a buttei- mould; tie it down tightly with a flou cloth, and boil for 5 or 6 hours. It n. be boiled in a cloth without a mould, £. will require the same time allowed cooking. As Christmas puddings i usually made a few days before they . required for table, when the pudding taken out of the pot, hang it up inu diately, and put a plate or saucer urn neath to catch the water that may duTHE DIGTIONAJRY OF COOKERY. 257 Plum Pudding (a Poxand) from it. The day it is to be e.aten, plunge it into boiling watei-, and keep it boiling for at least 2 hours; then turn it out, of the mould, and serve with brandy-sauce. On Christmas-day a sprig of holly is usually placed in the middle of the pudding, and about a wine- glassful of brandy poured round it, which, at the moment of serving, is lighted, and the pudding thus brought to table encircled in flame. Time.—5 or 6 hours the first time of boiling ; 2 hours the day it is to be served. Average cost, is. Sufficient for a quart mould for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable on the 25th of December, and on various festive occa- sions till March. Note.—Five or six of these puddings should be made at one timo^^is they will keep good for many weAs, auc^ in cases where unexpected gue4s arrive^ will be found an acceptable antL as ij/only re- quires warming through/^-tJuickly-pre- pared dish. Moulds' of every shape and size ai-e manufact&ped for these pud- dings, and may be purchased of Messrs. R. & J. Slack, 336, Strand. PLUM PUDDIITG (a Pound). Ingredients.=^l lb. of suet, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 8 eggs, t grated nutmeg, 2 oz. of sliced candied peiel, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, h lb. of bread crumbs, i lb. of flour, k pint of milk. J/orfe.—Chop the suet A'aely; mix with it the dry ingredients ; stir Phim Tart BAKED PUDDING, OE CAKB-MOUID. these well together, and add the well- beaten eggs and milk to moisten With. Beat up the mixture well, and should the above pronortion of milk not bo found sufficient to make it of the pro- per consistency, a little more should bo added. Press the pudding into a mould, wo It in a floured cloth, and boil for five hours, or rather longer, and serve with brandy-sauce. Time.—5 hours, or longer. Average cost, Zs. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. Note.—The above pudding may bo baked instead of boiled; it should be put into a buttered mould or tin, and baked for about 2 hours; a smaller one would take about 1;^ hour. PLUM PUDDIIyTG (Fresh Fruit). Ingredients.—1_ lb. of suet crust, Ih pint of Orleans *or any other kind of plum, \ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet crust rolled out to the thickness of about h, inch; fill the basin with the fniit, plit in the sugar, and cover with crust. Fold the edges over, and pinch them together, to prevent the juice escaping. Tie over a floured cloth, put the pudding into boil* ing water, and boil from 2 to 2.^ hours. Turn it out of the basin, and serve quickly. Time.—2 to 2^ hours. Average cost, IM. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums, from the beginning of August to the bo- ginning of October. PLUM TABT. Ingredients.—^ lb, of good short crust, 1^ pint of plums, ^ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line the edges of a deep tart- dish with crust; fill the dish with plums, and place a small cup or jar, upside down, in the midst of them. Put in the sugar, cover the pie with crust, orna- ment the edges, and bake in a good PLTTM TAET. oven from ^ to f hour. When pufiF-crust is preferred to short crust, uso that made by the given recipe, and glaze the top by brushing it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stifi' froth with a knife ; sprinkle over a little sifted sugar, and put the pie in the oven to set the glaze. Time.—I to f hour. Average cost, Is. SafficCent for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums> from the beginning of August to thg beginning of October. 9THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Plums, French PLUMS, French, Stewed (a Des- sert dish). Ingredients.—\h lb. of French plums, f pint of syrup, 1 glass of port wino, the rind and juico of 1 lemon. Mode.—Stow the plums gently in water for 1 hour; strain the water, and with it make the syrup. _When it is clear, put in the plums with the port wine, lemon-juice, and rind, and simmer very gently for 1^ hour. Arrange the plums on a glass dish, take out the lemon-rind, pour the syrup over the plums, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. A little allspice stewed with the fruit is by many persons considered an improvement. Time.—1 hour to stew the plums in water, 1^ hour in the syrup. Average cost, plums sufficiently good for stewing. Is. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. PLtTMS (Preserved). Ingredients.— To every lb. of fruit allow f lb. of loaf sugar; for the thin syrup, \ lb. of sugar to each ^nt of water. Mode.—Select large ripe plums; slightly prick them, to prevent them from bursting, and simmer them very gently in a syrup made with the above proportion of sugar and water. Put them carefully into a pan, let the syrup cool, pour it over the plums, and allotv them to remain for two days. Having previously weighed the other sugar, [dip the lumps quickly into water, and put them into a preserving-pan with no more water than hangs about them ; and boil the sugar to a syrup, carefully skimming it. Drain the plums from the first syrup ; put them into the fresh syrup, and sim- mer them very gently until they are clear; lift them out singly into pots, pour the synip over, and, when cold, cover down to exclude the air. This preserve will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place, and makes a very nice addition to a dessert. The magnum-bonum plums answer for this preserve better than any other kind of plum. Greengages are also very delicious done in this manner. Time.— i hour to 20 minutes to simmer the plums in the first syrup ; 20 minutes to J hour very gentle simmering in the second. Seasonable from August to October, Pork PLUMS, to Preserve Dry. Ingredients.— To every lb. of sugai allow \ pint of water. Mode.—Gatho the plums when they are fuU grown anc just turning colour; prick them, pu' them into a saucepan of cold water, anc set them on the lire until the water is oi the point of boiling. Then take then out, drain them, and boil them gentl; in syrup made with the above proportioi of sugar and water; and if the plum shrink, and will not take the sugar prick them as they lie in the pan ; giv them another boil, skim, and set then by. The next day add some mor sugar, boiled almost to candy, to th fruit and syrup ; put all together into wide-mouthed jar, and place them in cool oven for 2 nights; then drain th plums from the syrap, sprinkle a littl powdered sugar over, and dry them in cool oven. Time.—15 to 20 minutes t boil the plums in the syrup. Seasonab- from August to October. PORK. In the country, where, for ordin consumption, the pork killed for sale usually both larger and fatter than tht; supplied to the London consumer, it: customary to remove the skin and ft: down to the lean, and, salting that, roa what remains of the joint. Pork go- further, and is consequently a mo economical food, than other meats, simp because the texture is closer, and the is less waste in the cooking, either roasting or boiling. In fresh pork, the leg is the mo economical family joint, and the loin t richest. Pork, to be preserved, is cured _ several ways,—either by covering it wi salt, or immersing it in ready-made brir where it is kept till required ; or it only partially salted, and then hung • to dry, when the moat is called whi bacon ; or, after salting, it is hung wood smoke till the flesh is impregnat with the aroma from the wood. T WOtshire bacon, which is regarded the finest in the kingdom, is prejiar by laj'ing the sides of a hog in lar wooden troughs, and then rubbing it the ilesh quantities of powdered bf salt, made hot in a frying-pan. T process is repeated for four days; tli are then left for three weeks, menTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 259 Pork turning the flitches every other day. After that time they are hung up to dry. The hogs usually killed for pui-poses of bacon in England average from 18 to 20 stone; on the other hand, the hogs killed in the country for farm-house pur- poses, seldom weigh less than 26 stone. The legs of boars, hogs, and, in Ger- many, those of bears, are prepared diS'er- ently, and called hams. The practice in vogue formerly in this country was to cut out the hams and cure them separately; then to remove the ribs, which were roasted as " spare-ribs/'and, ciuing the remainder of the side, call it a "gammon of bacon." Small pork to cut for table in joints, is cut up, in most places throughout the king- dom, as represented in the engraving. The side is divided with nine ribs to the fore quarter; and the following is an enume- ration of the joints in the two respective EITIE OP A PIG, SHOWING THB EEVEEAL JOINTS. juarters:— IiND Quarter (1. The leg. < 2. The loin. ( 3. The spring, or belly. (4. The hand. ?ORE Quartern 5. The fore-loin. ( 6. The cheek. The weight of the several joints of a •ood pork pig of four stone may be as ollows ; viz.:— The leg 8 lbs. The loin and spring . 7 „ The hand . . . . 6 !. The chine The cheek from 2 to 3 )f a bacon pig, the legs are reserved for uring, and when cured are called hams: rhen tho moat is separated from the houlder-blado and bones and cured, it 1 called bacon. The bones, with part of ho meat left on them, are divided into pare-ribe, <jriskins, and chinos. Pork Cutlets, or Chops PORK CHEESE (an Excellent Breakfast Dish). Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cold roast pork, pepper and salt to taste, 1 dessertspoon- ful of minced parsley, 4 leaves of sage, a very small bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, a little nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel; good strong gi'avy, sufficient to fill the mould. Mode.—Cut, but do not chop, the pork into fine pieces, and allow ^ lb. of fat to each pound of lean. Season with pei^per and salt; pound well the spices, and chop finely the parsley, sage, herbs, and lemon-peel, and mix the whole nicely together. Put it into a mould, fill up with good strong well- flavoured gravy, and bake rather more than one hour. When cold, turn it out of the mould. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Seasonable from October to March. JVole.—The remains of a pig's head, after the chops are taken off, make most excellent pork cheese. PO:^ CUTLETS, or Chops, Ingredients. — Loin of pork, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the cut- lets from a delicate loin of pork, bone and trim them neatly, and cut away the greater portion of the fat. Season them with pepper; place the gridiron on the fire; when quite hot, lay on the chops, and broil them for about ^ hour, turning them 3 or 4 times; and be particular that they are thoroughly done, but not dry. Dish them, sprinkle over a little fine salt, and serve plain, or with tomato sauce, sauce piquante, or pickled gher- kins, a few of which should be laid round the dish as a garnish. Time.—About hour. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.—Allow 6 for 4 per- sons. Seasonable from October to March. PORK CUTLETS, or Chops. Ingredients. — Loin, or fore-loin, of pork, egg and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste; to every tablespoonful of bread crumbs allow ^ teaspoonful of minced sage; clarified butter. Mode.— Cut the cutlets from a loin, or fore-loin, of pork ; trim them the same as mutton cutlets, and scrape tho top part of the bono. Brush them over with egg, sprin- kle with bread crumbs, witlx which haveTEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 260 Pork Cutlets been mixed minced sngo and a seasoning of popper and salt; drop a littlo chu-ified butter on them, and press the crumbs well down. Put the Irying-pan on the fire, put in some lard ; when this is hot, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a light brown on both sides. Take them out, put them before the fire to dry the greasy moisture from them, and dish them on mashed potatoes. Servo with them any sauce that may be preferred ; such as tomato sauce, sauce piquante, sauce Robert, or pickled gherkins. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, \Qd. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.— Allow 6 cutlets for 4 persons. Season- able from October to March. Note.—The remains of roast loin of pork may be dressed in the same manner. PORK CUTLETS. I^CoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast loin of pork, 1 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 dessertspoon- ful of flour, h pint of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and mustard. Mode.—Cut the pork into nice-sized cutlets, trim off most of the fat, and chop the onions. Put the butter into a stewpan, lay in the cutlets and chopped onions, and fry a light brown ; then add the remaining ingredients, simmer gently for 5 or 7 minutes, and serve. 2'me.—5 to 7 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Season- able from October to March. POBK, Eoast Griskin of. liigredients.—Pork ; a little powdered Bage. Mode.—As this joint frequently comes to table hard and dry, particular care should bo taken that it is well basted. Put it down to a bright fire, SPAKE-HIB OV POBI. and flour it. About 10 minutes beforo taking it up, sprinkle over some pow- dered" sago ; make a littlo gravy in the dripping-pan, strain it over the meat, Pork, Boiled Leg of and serve with a tureen of apple sauce. I'his joint will be done in far less time than when the skin is left on, conse- quently, should have the greatest attcn- GHISKIS^ OP POBK. tion that it be not dried up. Time.— Griskin of pork weighing 6 lbs., 1^ hour. Average cost, Id. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to March. Note.—A spare-rib of pork is roasted in the same manner as above, and would take li hour for one weighing about 6 lbs. PORK, Hashed. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast pork, 2 onions, 1 teaspoonful o\ flour, 2 blades of pounded mace, 2 cloves, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, .J piul of gravy, pepper and salt to taste Mode.—Chop the onions and fry the:, of a nice brown ; cut the pork into thii . slices, season them with pepper and salt:,| and add these to the remaining ingre dients. Stew gently for about hour and serve garnished with sippets o toasted bread. Time.—?, hour. Avcrag cost, exclusive of the meat, 3(^. Season able from October to March. PORK, Boiled Leg of. Ingredients.—Leg of pork ; salt. Modt —For boiling, choose a small, corapact i well-filled leg, and rub it well with salt: let it remain in pickle for a week cc ten days, turning and rubbing it ever: day. An hour before dressing it, put: into cold water for an hour, which in i proves the colour. If the pork is pu;j chased ready salted, ascerUxin how lonn the meat has been in jiicklo, and soa ' it according]}'. Put it into a boiling-po , with sufficient cold water to cover it lot it gradually come to a boil, and r- move the scum as it rises. Simmer very gently until tender, and do m allow it to boil fast, or the knuckle w fall to pieces before the middle t! leg is done. Carrots, tuniips, or pai nips may be boiled with the pork, sop of which should bo laid round the dii261 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Poik, Eoast Leg of BOASI LBS OF POEZ. as a garnish. A well-made peaso- pudding is an indispensable accompani- ment. A leg of pork weighing B lbs., 3 hours after the water boils, and to be simmered very gently. Avenuje cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to March. jYote.—The liquor in wbich a leg of pork has been boiled makes excellent pea-soup. POBK, Roast Leg of. Ingredients. — Leg of pork, a little, oil, sago and onion stuffing. Mode.— Choose a small leg of pork, and tcoro the skin across in narrow strips, about ^ inch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with a sage- and-onion 8 t u fB n g . Brush the joint over with a little salad- oil (this makes the crackling crisper, and a better colour), and put it down to a bright, clear fire, not too near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it well, and servo with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and do not omit to send to table with it a tureen of well-made apple sauce. Time.—A leg of pork weighing 8'lbs., about 3 hours. Average cost, 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to March. PORK, Leg of, to Carve. This joint, which is such a favourite ono with many people, is easy to carve. The knife should be car- ried sharply down to the bone, clean through the crackling, in the direction of the line 1 to 2. Sago and onion and apple sauce are usually sent to table with this dish,—sometimes the leg of pork is stuffed,—and the guests should bo asked if they will have either or both. A frequent plan, and we lliink a good one, is now pursued, of Pork, to Pickle I,EO OT POBK. sending sago and onion to table sepa- rately from the joint, as it is not every- body to whom the flavour of this stufBnjj is ngreeable. Note.—The other dishes of pork do rot call for any special remai'ks as to their carving or helping. PORK, Roast Loin of. Ingredients.—Pork; a little salt. Mode.—Score the skin in strips rather more than \ inch aj^art, and place the joint at a good distance fi-om the fire, on FOEB LOIN or POEK. account of the crackling, which would harden before the meat would be heated through, were it placed too near. If very lean, it should be rubbed over witli Eiin> Lonr oi' pobe. a little salad oil, and kept well basted all the time it is at the fire. Pork should be vei-y thoroughly cooked, but not dry; and be careful never to send it to table the least underdone, as nothing is more unwholesome and disagreeable than under-dressed white meats. Serve with apple sauce and a Httle gravy made in the dripping-pan. A stuffing of sage and onion may be made separately, and baked in a flat dish: this method is better than putting it in the meat, as many persons have so great an objection to the flavour. Time.—A loin of pork weighing 5 lbs., about 2 hours : allow more time should it be very fat. A verage cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. PORK, to Pickle. Ingredients.—^ lb. of saltpetre ; salt. Mode.— As pork does not keep long without being salted, cut it into pieces of a suitable size as soon as the pig is cold, Eub the pieces of pork well with salt, and put them into a pan with a sprinkling of it between each piece: oaTHE DiCTIONARY OF COOKERI?. 2G2 Pork, Pickled, to Boil It molts on the top, strew on more. Lay a coarse cloth over tho pan, a board oVor that, and a weight on the board, to keep tho pork down in the brine. If excluded from the air, it will continue pood for nearly 2 years. Average cost, IQd. per lb. for the prime parts. Season- able.—The best time for pickling meat is ]-ite in tho autumn. POBK, Pickled, to Boil. Ingredients.—Pork; water. Mode.— Should the pork be very salt, let it re- main in water about 2 hours before it is dressed; put it into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, let it gradually come to a boil, then gently simmer until quite tender. Allow ample t/me for it to cook, as nothing is more disagreeable than underdone pork, and when boiled fast, the meat becomes hard. This is sometimes served with boiled poultry and roast veal, instead of bacon : when tender, and not over salt, it will be found equally good. Time.— A piece of pickled pork weighing 2 lbs., 1.^ hour; 4 lbs., rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for the primest parts. Seasonable at any time. PORK PIES (Warwickshire Re- cipe). Ingredients.—For the crust, 5 lbs. of lard to 14 lbs. of flour; milk, and water. For filling tho pies, to every 3 lbs. of meat allow 1 oz. of salt, 2.| oz. of pejiper, a small qunntity of cayenne, 1 pint of water. Mode.—Rub into the flour a por- tion of the lard ; the remainder put with sufficient milk and water to mix the crust, and boil this gently for ,| hour. Pour it boiling on the flour, and knead and beat it till perfectly smooth. Now raise the crust in either a round or oval form, cut up tho pork into pieces ', the size of a nut, season it iu tho above ' proportion, and press it compactly into / the pie, in alternate layers of fat and lean, and pour in a small quantity of water; lay on the lid, cut tho cdf,es Bmoothly roimd, and pinch them to- gether. Bake in a brick oven, which should bo slow, as the meat is very solid. Very frequently, an inexperienced cook finds much ditticulty in raising tho crust. She should bear in mind tliat it must not be allowed to got cold, or it will fall immediately: to pr.vcnt thi.s, tho operation should be performed as Potato Fritters near the fire as possible. As consider- able dexterity and expertness are ne- cessary to raise tho crust with the hand ' only, a glass bottle or small jar may be placed in tho middle of tho paste, and the criLst moulded on this ; but bo par- ' ticular that it is kept warm tho whole - time. Sufficient.—ThQ proportions for 1 pie are 1 lb. of flour and 3 lbs. of meat ^ Seasonable from September to March. PORK PIES, Little Raised. [ Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, A lb. of •' butter, ^ lb. of mutton suet, salt andi - white pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of the neck ■'■ of pork, ] dessertspoonful of powdered. sage. Mode.—Well dry the flour, mince the suet, and put these with the butter into a saucepan, to be made hot, and add a little salt. When melted, mix it up into a stiff paste, and put it before the fire with a cloth over it until ready to make up; chop the pork into small pieces, season it with white pepper, salt, and powdered sage; divide the paste into rather small pieces, raise it in ai round or oval form, fill with the meat,, and bake in a brick oven. These pies < • will require a fiercer oven than those in i ^ the preceding recipe, as they are made .■ --^ so much smaller, and consequentl}- do' not require so soaking a heat. Time.— If made small, about 1.^ hour. Season- ■ able from Sei^tember to March. POTATO FRITTERS. ^ Ingredients.—2 large potatoes, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 ditto of raisin or sweet wine, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, h teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, hot lard. Mode.—Boil the po- tatoes, and beat them up lightly with a. fork, but do not use a- spoon, as that: would make them heav}'. Beat tho eggs ; well, leaving out one of tho whites ; add I h> tho other ingredients, and beat all to- gcther for at least 20 minutes, or until the batter is extremely light. Put plenty of good lard into a frying-pan, and drop a tablespoonful of tho batter at a time into it, and fry the fritters a nice brown. Serve them with the following sauce :— A glass of sherry mixed with the strained juice of a lemon, and suCBcient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Warm those ingredients, and serve (he sauce scparatelj' in a tureen. Tho frit- ters should be neatly dished on a white d'oyley, and pounded sugar spnnklodi263 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Potato Pasty- over them. They should be well drained an a piece of blotting-paper before the fire previously to being dished. Time.—¥rom 6 to 8 minutes. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO PASTY. Ingredients.—1.^ lb. of rump-steak or nutton cutlets, pepper and salt to taste, \ pint of weak broth or gravy, 1 oz. of butter, mashed potatoes. Mode.—Place bhe meat, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of the pan ; season it with pep- )er and salt, and add the gravy and POTATO-PASTY PAIT. alter broken into small pieces. Put on he perforated plate, with its valve-pipo crewed on, and fill up the whole space 0 the top of the tube with nicely-mashed otatoes mixed with a little milk, and nish the surface of them in any orna- lental manner. If carefully baked, the otatoes will be covered with a delicate rown cnist, retaining all the savoury :eam rising from the meat. Send it to xble as it comes from the oven, with a apkin folded round it. Time.—40 to 60 linutes. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient >r ,4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any rae. OTATO PUDDING-. Ingredients.—i lb. of mashed potatoes, oz. of butter, 2 eggs, ^ pint of milk, tablespoonfuls of sherry, i saltspoon- 1 of salt, the juice and rind of 1 small mon, 2 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Boil fficient potatoes to make ^ lb. when ashed ; add to these the butter, eggs, ilk, sherry, lemon-juice, and sugar; ince the lemon-peel very finely, and at all the ingredients well together, it the pudding into a buttered pie- ;h, and bake for rather more than lOur. To enrich it, add a few pounded nonds, and increase the quantity of M and butter. 2'ime.—^ liour, or ier longer. Average cost, 8d. Suf- Potato Sno-w- ficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO RISSOLES. Ingredients.—Mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste ; when Uked, a very little minced parsley, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—BoU and mash the POTATO EISSOLES. potatoes; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and, when liked, a little minced parsley. Roll the potatoes into small balls, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard for about 10 minutes ; let them drain before the fire, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Time. —10 minutes to fry the rissoles. Season- able at any time. Note.—The flavour of these rissoles may be very much increased by adding finely-minced tongue or ham, or even chopped onions, when these are liked. POTATO SALAD. Ingredients.—10 or 12 cold boiled po- tatoes, 4 tablespoonfuls of tarragon or plain vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad- oil, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced parsley. Mode.—Cut tho potatoes into slices about h inch in thick- ness ; put these into a salad-bowl -with oil and vinegar in the above proportion j season with pepper, salt, and a teaspoon- ful of minced parsley ; stir the salad well, that all the ingredients may be tho- roughly incorporated, and it is ready to serve. This should be made two or three hours before it is wanted for tku. . Anchovies, olives, or pickles may be added to this salad, as also slices of cold beef, fowl, or turkey. Seasonable at any time. POTATO SNOW. Ingredients.—Potatoes, salt, and water, il/ocie. —Choose large white potatoes, aa free from spots as possible ; boil them iu their skins in salt and water until per- fectly tender; drain and dry them tko' roughly by the side of the fire, and peel them. Put a hot dish before the fire, rub the potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish; do not touch them after*264 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Potato Soup wards, or tho flakes will fall, and servo as hot as possible. Time.—^ to J hour to boil the potatoes. Average cost, 4s, per bushel. Sufficient,—6 potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO SOUP. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of mealy potatoes, boiled or steamed very dry, pepper and salt to taste, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.— When the potatoes are boiled, mash them smoothly, that no Jumps remain, and gradually put them to tho boiling stock ; pass it through a sieve, season, and sim- mer for 5 minutes. Skim well, and serve with fried bread. Time.—h hour. Ave- rage cost, lOd. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Svfficicnt for 8 persons. POTATO SOUP. Ingredients.—1 lb. of shin of beef, 1 lb. of potatoes, 1 onion, h, a pint of peas, 2 oz. of rice, 2 heads of celery, pepper and salt to taste, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, chop the potatoes and onion, and put them into a stewpan with the water, peas, and rice. Stew gently till the gravy is drawn from the meat; strain it off, take out tho beef, and pulp the other ingredients through a coarse sieve. Put the pulp back into the soup, cut up the celery in it, and simmer till this is tender. Season, and servo with fried bread cut into it. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, 4(i. per quart. Seasonable from Septem- ber to Jlarch. Sufficient for 12 persons. POTATO SOUP (very Economical). Ingredients.—4 middle-sized potatoes well pared, a thick slice of bread, 6 leeks peeled and cut into thin slices as far as the white extends upwards from the roots, a teacupful of rice, a teaspoonful of salt, and half that of pepper, and 2 quarts of water. Mode.—The water must be completely boiling before any- thing is put into it; then add tho whole of the ingredients at once, with tho ex- ception of tho rice, tho salt, and tho copper. Cover, and let these como to a brisk boil; put in the others, uud let tho whole boil slowly for an hour, or till all the ingredients are thoroughly done, and their several juices extracted and mixed, I'mc.—2A hours. Average cost, Potatoes, to Boil BA.E£D POTATOES SEEVEI Iir VKVKVS. Zd. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. POTATOES, Baked. Ingredients. — Potatoes. Mode. — Choose large potatoes, as much of a size as possible; wash them in lukewarm water, and scrub them well, for the browned skin of a baked potato is bj many persons considered the better pari of it. Put them into a moderate oven and bake them for about two houva, turning ^^^^ them three or four times whilst they are cooking. Servo them in a napkin immediately they are done, as, i kept a-long time in the oven, they hav. a shrivelled appearance. Potatoes ma; also bo roasted before the fire, in ai American oven ; but when thus cooked they must be done very slowlj'. Do no forget to send to table with them a piec of cold butter. Time.—Large potatoes in a hot oven, Ih hour to 2 hours ; in : cool oven, 2 to 2.h hours. A verage cosi 4s. per bushel. 'Sufficient.—AUow 2 t each person. Seasonable all the j'oaii- but not good just before and whilst nev;< potatoes are in season. POTATOES, to Boil. Ingredients.—\0 or 12 potatoes; tt^ each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heape* tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Choose potatoes of an equal size, pare thenra take out all the eyes and specks, and they are peeled, throw them into col water. ■ Put them into a saucepan, wit sufficient cold water to cover them, wit salt in the above proportion, and Ic them boil gently until tender. Ascertai when they are done by thrusting a for in them, and take them up the momei they feel soft through ; for if they ai left in the water afterwards, they bccon- waxy or watery. Drain away tho wate put tho saucepan by the side of the fir with the lid partially uncovered, to alio the steam to escape, and let the potatoi get thoroughly dry, and do not alio them to get bunit. Their superfliioi moisture will evaporate, and the potatoc if a good &ort, should bo perfectly ir.ca and dry. Potatoes vary so much in qnalif and size, that it is difficult to give tl exact time for boiling; thoy should I ITHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 265 Potatoes, to Boil in their Jackets attentively watched, and probed with a fork, to ascertain when they are cooked. Send them to table quickly, and very hot, and with an opening in the cover of the dish, that a portion of the steam may evaporate, and not fall back on the pota- toes. Time.—Moderate-sized old pota- toes, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water hoUs ; large ones, \ hour to 35 minutes. Average cost, 4s. per bushel. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. Note.—To keep potatoes hot, after draining the water from them, put a folded cloth or flannel (kept for the pur- pose) on the top of them, keeping the saucepan-lid partially uncovered. This will absorb the moisture, and keep them hot some time without spoiling. POTATOES, to Boil in their Jackets. Ingredients.—10 or 12 potatoes; to each ^ gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—To obtain this wholesome and delicious vegetable cooked in perfection, it should be boiled and sent to table with the skin on. In Ireland, where, perhaps, the cooking of potatoes is better understood than in any co\mtry, they are always served so. "Wash the potatoes well, and if neces- sary, use a clean scrubbing-brush to re- move the dirt from them ; and, if pos- sible, choose the potatoes so that they may all be as nearly the same size as possible. When thoroughly cleansed, fill the saucepan half full with them, and just cover the potatoes with cold water salted in the above proportion: they are more quickly boiled with a small quan- tity* of water, and, besides, are more savoury than when drowned in it. Bring them to boil, then draw the pan to the sido of the fire, and let them simmer gently until tender. Ascertain when they are done by probing them with a fork; then pour off the water, uncover the saucepan, and let the pota- toes dry by the side of the fire, taking care not to let them bui-n. Peel them quickly, put them in a very hot vege- table-tlish, either with or without a nap- kin, and servo very quickly. After pota- toes are cooked, they should never bo entirely covered up, as tho steam, in- stead of escaping, falls down on them, ind makes them watery and insipid. Potatoes, Fried In Ireland they are usually served up with the skins on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest. Time. —Moderate-sized potatoes, with their skins on, 20 to 25 minutes after the water boils; large potatoes, 25 minutes to % hour, or longer ; 5 minutes to dry them. Average cost, 45. per bushel. Sufficient for G persons. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. POTATOES, New, to Boil. Ingredients.—Potatoes ; to each \ gal- lon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoon- ful of salt. Mode.—T)o not have the potatoes dug long before they are dressed, as they are never good when they have been out of the ground some time. Well wash them, rub off the skins with a coarse cloth, and put them into boiling water salted in the above proportion. Let them boil until tender; try them with a fork, and when done, pour the water away from them; let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid of the saucepan partially unco- vered, and when the potatoes are tho roughly dry, put them into a hot vege- table-dish, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; pile the potatoes over this, and serve. If the potatoes are too old to have the skin rubbed off, boil them in their jackets ; drain, peel, and serve them as above, with a piece of butter placed in the midst of them. Time.—\ to ^ hour, according to tho size. Average cost, in full season, 1;/, per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 3 lbs. for 5 or 0 persons. Seasonable in May and June, but may be had, forced, in March. POTATOES, Fried (French Fashion). Ingredients.—Potatoes, hot butter or claritied dripping, salt. Mode.—Peel and cut the potatoes into thin slices, as nearly tho same size as possible; make some butter or dripping hot in a frying- pan ; put in tho potatoes, and fry them on both sides until nearly cooked. Now take the potatoes out of the fat, make tho fat quite boiling, then throw in the potatoes for a minute or two until suf- ficiently done. Tho immersion of the vegetable in the grease a second time after it is partially cooked, causes it to puff or "gonfler," as tho French say, which is the desired appearance for properly-dressed fried potatoes to po8«2G8 THE DICTION-ARY OF COOKERY. Potatoes, a German Method sess. When thoy nro crisp and done, take tliem up, place them on a cloth before the fire to drain the grease from them, and serve very hot, after sprink- ling them with salt. These are delicious with rump-steak, and, in Franco, are frequently served thus as a breakfast dish. The remains of cold potatoes may also be sliced and fried by the above re- cipe, but the slices must be cut a little thicker. Time.—Sliced raw potatoes, 5 minutes ; cooked potatoes, 5 minutes. Average cost, 4s. per bushel. Sufficient,— 6 sliced potatoes for 3 persons. Season- Kile at any time. POTATOES, a German Method of Cooking. Ingredients.—8 to 10 middling-sized potatoes, 3 oz. of butter, 2 tablespcJon- fuls of flour, k pint of broth, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Put the butter and flour into a stewpan; stir over the fire until the butter is of a nice brown colour, and add the broth and vinegar; peel and cut the potatoes into long thin slices, lay them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender, •which will be in from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve very hot. A laurel-leaf sim- mered with the potatoes is an improve- ment. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Season- able at any time. POTATOES, h la Maitre d'HStel. Ingredients.—Potatoes, salt and water; to every 6 potatoes allow 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Wash the potatoes clean, and boil them in salt and water ; when they are done, drain them, let them cool; then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices : if these are too thin, they would break in the sauce. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pepper, salt, gravy, and parsley ; mix these ingredients well together, put in the potatoes, shake them two or three times, that they may be well covered with the sauce, and, when quite hot through, squeeze in the lemon- juice, and serve. Time.—h to i hour to boil the potatoes ; 10 minutes for them to hea* in the sauce. A verage cost, As. per bushel. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable all the year. Potatoes, Mashed POTATOES, Mashed. Ingredients.—Potatoes; to every lb. of mashed potatoes allow 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, salt to taste. Mode.—Boil the potatoes in their skins ; when done, drain them, and let them get thoroughly dry by the side of the fire ; then peel them, and, as they are peeled, put them into a clean saucepan, and with a large fork beat them to a light paste; add butter, milk, and salt in the above proportion, and stir all the ingredients well over the fire. When thorouglily , hot, dish them lightly, and draw the , fork backwards over the potatoes to , make the surface rough, and serve. ; When dressed in this manner, they may \ be browned at the top with a salamander, [ or before the fire. Some cooks press the t potatoes into moulds, then turn them out, and brown them in the oven : this is a pretty mode of serving, but it makes ^ them heavy. In whatever way they are sent to table, care must be taken to have, i them quite free from lumps. Time.— i From ^ to ^ hour to boil the potatoes.- ti Average cost, As. per bushel. Sufficient; to —1 lb. of mashed potatoes for 3 persons.-, it Seasonable at any time. POTATOES, Very Thin-mashed,l, \: or, Pur6e de Pommes de Terre. ^' Ingredients.—To every lb. of mashed i tir potatoes allow ^ pint of good broth or* 'a stock, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—BoW the ; i. potatoes, well drain them, and pound; r; them smoothly in a mortar, or beat them .■ up with a fork ; add the stock or broth, ^ and rub the potatoes through a sieve. , ti^ Put the purdo into a very clean sauce- - pan with the butter ; stir it well over : the fire until thoroughly hot, and it will ' then be ready to serve. A purde should be rather thinner than mashed potatoes, and is a delicious accompaniment to delicately broiled mutton cutlets. Creai'- or milk may be substituted for the brotb when the latter is not at hand. A casse* role of potatoes, which is often used for ragofits instead of rice, is made by mash- ing potatoes rather thickly, placing them on a dish, and making an opening in the • centre. After having browned the po* ■ | i tatoes in the oven, the dish shouM be' ' wiped clean, and the ragodt or frica-^s^e poured in. ymc—About -i hour to boil the potatoes; 6 or 7 minutes to warm the pur6e. Average cost, is. per bushel.THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERT. 267 Potatoes, how to use Cold Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of cooked pota- toes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any- time. POTATOES, how to use Cold. Ingredients.—The remains of cold po- tatoes ; to every lb. allow 2 tablespoon- fuls of flour, 2 ditto of minced onions, 1 oz. of butter-milk. Mode.—M&sh. the potatoes with a fork until perfectly free from lumps ; stir in the other ingre- dients, and add sufBcient milk to moisten them well; press the potatoes into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely brown, which will be in from 20 minutes to h hour. Turn them out of the mould," and serve. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Seasonable at any time. POTATOES, to Steam. Ingredients.—Potatoes ; boiling water. Mode.—This mode of cooking potatoes is now much in vogue, particularly where they are wanted on a large scale, it being 60 veiy convenient. Pare the potatoes, throw them into cold water as they are peeled, then put them into a steamer. Place the steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the potatoes from 20 to 40 minutes, according to the size and sort. When a fork goes easily through them, they are done; then take them up, dish, and serve very Luickly. Time.—20 to 40 minutes. Ave- ••age cost, 45. per bushel. Sufficient.— Jlow 2 large potatoes to each person. Reasonable all the year, but not so good rhilst new potatoes are in season. ^OULET AUX CBESSONS. Ingredients.—A fowl, a large bunch of rater-cresses, 3 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, \ pint of gravy. Mode.—Truss and hoast a fowl by recipe, taking care that It is nicely frothed and brown. Wash Ind dry the water-cresses, pick them picely, and arrange them in a flat layer tn a dish. Sprinklo over a little salt Lnd the above proportion of vinegar; |)lace over these the fowl, and pour over It the gravj'. A little gravy should bo lervcd in a tureen. When not liked, Ihe vinegar may bo omitted. Time.— Trom to 1 hour, according to size. nverage cost, in full season, 2s. Qd. each. \ulficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable It any tim?. Pound Cake POULET A LA MARENGO. Ingredients. — 1 large fowl, 4 table- spoonfuls of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 pint of stock or water, about 28 mushroom-buttons, salt and pepper to the taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a very small piece of garlic. Mode.—Cut the fowl into 8 or 10 pieces, put them with the oil into a stewpan, and brown them over a moderate fire ; dredge in the above proportion of flour, when that is brown, pour in the stock or water, let it simmer very slowly for rather more than ^ an hour, and skim off the fat as it rises to the top ; add the mushrooms, season with pepper, salt, garlic, and sugar; take out the fowl, which arrange pyramidically on a dish, with the inferior joints at the bottom. Reduce the sauce by boiling it quickly over the fire, keeping it stirred until sufiiciently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon; pour over the fowl, and serve. Time.—Altogether 50 minutes. Average cost, 3s. Qd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. POUND CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of butter, 1| lb. of flour, 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lb. of currants, 9 eggs, 2 oz. of candied peel, | oz. of citron, § oz. of sweet almonds ; when liked, a little pounded mace. Mode.— Work the butter to a cream ; dredge in the flour; add the sugar, currants, can- died peel, which should be cut into neat slices, and the almonds, which should be blanched and chopped, and mix all these well together; whisk the eggs, and let them be th o r o u ghl y blended with the dry ingredients. Beat the cake well for 20 minutes, and put it intoaround tin,lined at the bottomand sides with a strip of white buttered paper. Bake it from 11 to 2 hours, and let the oven be well heated when tho cake is fii'st put in, as, if this is not tho case, the currants will all sink to tho bottom of it. To make this preparation light, the yolks and whites of tho eggs should be beaten separately, and added separ- ately to tho other ingredients. A glass of wine is sometimes added to tho mix- ture ; but this is scarcely necessary, aa tho cake will be found quite rich enough witUoiit it. !i'me.—l^ to 2 hours. Ave- POUlfD CAKE.2G8 THE diotionahy op cookery. Prawn Soup rage cost, 2s. 6d. Svfficient.—The above quantity divided in two will make two nice-sized cakes. Seasonable at anytime. PEAWN SOUP. Ingredients.—Two quarts of fisli stock, two pints of prawns, the crumb of a French roll, anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup to taste, one blade of mace, one- fourth pint of vinegar, a little lemon- juice. Mode.—Yic\L out the tails of the prawns, put the bodies in a stewpan with 1 blade of mate, \ pint of vinegar, and the same ^luantity of water; stew them for \ hour, and strain off the liquor. Put the fish stock into a stewpan ; add the strained liquor, pound the prawns ■with the crumb of a roll moistened with a little of the soup, mb them through a tammj', and mix them by degrees with the soup ; add ketchup or auchovy sauce to taste with a little lemon-juice. When it is well cooked, put in a few picked prawns; let them get thoroughl}' hot, and serve. If not thick enough, put in a little butter and flour. Time.—Hour. Average cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This can be thickened with tomatoes, and vermicelli served in it, which makes it a very tasteful soup. PKAWNS, to Dress. Cover a dish with a large cup reversed, and over that lay a small white napkin. Arrange the prawns on it in the form of a pyi'amid, and garnish with plenty of parsley. Sometimes prawns are stuck into a lemon cut in half the long way, and garnished with parsley. PBESEBVES. From the nature of vegetable sub- stances, and chiefly from their not pass- ing so rapidly into the putrescent state as animal bodies, the mode of preserving them is somewhat different, although the general principles are the same. All the means of preservation are put in practice occasionally for fruits and the various parts of vegetables, according to the nature of the species, the climate, the uses to which they are applied, &c. Some are dried, as nuts, raisins, sweet herbs, &c. ; others are preserved by means of sugar, such as many fruits whoso delicate juices would bo lost by drying; some are preserved by means of vinegar, and chiefly used as condi- Preserves ments or pickles ; a few also by salting, . as French beans; while others are pro- served in spirits. We have, however, in this place to treat of the best methods of preserving fruits. Fruit is a most: important item in the eomomy of health ;, the epicurean can scarcely be said to have a.ny luxuries without it; therefore, i as it is so invaluable, when wo cannot: ; have it fresh, we must have it preserved.. ; It has long been a desideratum to pro- ■ i serve fruits by some cheap method, j'et; ■ by such as would keep them fit for the various culinary purposes, as making: j tarts and other similar dishes. The ex- ■ •. pense of preserving them with sugar is a • : serious objection ; for, except the sugar e be used in considerable quantities, tho i success is very uncertain. Sugar also p overpowers and destroys the sub-acid, i taste so desirable in many fruits : tboso- r which aro preserved in this manner aro - i chiefly intended for the dessert. Fruits ^ c intended for preservation should bo: -c gathered in the morning, in dry weather,. n with the morning sun upon them, if pos- ■ s sible; they will then have their fullest: ci flavour, and keep in good condition S longer than when gathered at any other: ^ time. Until fruit can be used, it should . u be placed in the dairy, an ice-house, or as c; refrigerator. In an ice-house it will re- • maiu fresh and plump for several da3-s. s i) Fruit gathered in wet or foggy weather - r, will soon be mildewed, and be of no ser- - to vice for preserves. tr Having secured the first and most im- ■ ii portant contribution to the manufactureo of preserves—the fruit, the next con- f; sidcration is the preparation of the syrup:' !,■; in which the fruit is to be suspended;; cv and this requires much care. In thO'? fi. confectioner's art there is a great nicety; (•• in proportioning tho degree of coucen- t; tration of the syrup very exactly to eachi- tjr particular case ; and he knows this by signs, and expressesit bycertaintechnical. tt, terms. But to distinguish these properly •;• requires very great attention and con- siderablo experience. The principal i ^ thing to be acquainted with is the fact, f. that, in proportion as the syrup is longel (j, boiled, its water will become evaporated;'. and its consistency will bo thicker. Great '. care must be taken in the management' j. of the fire, that tho syrup docs not boil t over, and that tho boiling is not carried f. to such an extent as to burn the sugar. Tho first degree or consistency is called ■> ^ Vie thread, which is subdivided into th« • *■THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2G9 Preserves little and great thread. If you dip the finger into the sj'rup and apply it to the thumb, the tenacity of the syrup will, on separating the finger and thumb, afford a thread, which shortly breaks : this is the little thread. If the thread, from the greater tenacity, and, conse- quently, greater strength of the syrup, admits of a greater extension of the finger and thumb, it is called the great thread. There are half-a-dozen other terms and experiments for testing the various thickness of the boiling sugar towards the consistency called ca?-a»ie^; but that degree of sugar-boiling belongs to the confectioner. A solution of sugar prepared by dissolving two parts of double-refined sugar (the best sugar is the most economical for preserves) in one of water, and boiling this a little, affords a syrup of the right degree of strength, and which neither ferments nor crystallizes. This appears to be the degree called 4')hoo<A by the confectioners, and is proper to be used for the purposes of preserves. The syrup employed should sometimes be clarified, which is done in the following manner:—Dissolve 2 lbs. of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; add to this solution the white of an egg, and beat it well. Put the preserving-pan upon the fire with the solution ; stir it I with a wooden spatula, and when it begins 1 to swell and boil up, throw in some cold I water or a little oil to damp the boiling ; I for, as it rises suddenly, if it should boil over, it would take fire, being of a very inflammable nature. Lot it boil up again ; then take it off, and remove care- fully the scum that has risen. Boil the solution again, throw in a little more cold water, remove the scum, and so on for three or four times successively; then strain it. It is considered to be suffi- ciently boiled when some taken up in a spoon pours out like oil. Although sugar passes so easily into the state of fermentation, and is, in fact, the only substance capable of undergoing the vinous stage of that process, yet it will not ferment at all if the quantity bo sufficient to constitute a very strong syrup: hence, syrups are used to pre- serve fruits and other vegetable sub- stances from the changes they would undergo if left to themselves. Before sugar was in use, honey was employed to ] preserve many vegetable productions, though this substance has now given way iQ the juice of the sugar-caao. Preserves The fruits that are the most fit for preservation in syrup are apricots, peaches, nectarines, apples, greengages, plums of all kinds, and pears. As an example, take some apricots not too ripe, make a small slit at the stem end, and push out the stone ; simmer them in water till they are softened and about half done, and afterwards throw them into cold water. When they have cooled, take them out and drain them. Put the apricots into the preserving-pan with sufficient syrup to cover them ; let them boil up three or four times, and thea skim them ; remove them from the fire, pour them into an earthen pan, and let them cool till next day. Boil them up three days successively, skimming each time, and they will then be finished and in a fit state to be put into pots for use. After each boiling, it is proper to ex- amine into the state of the syrup when cold ; if too thin, it will bear additional boiling; if too thick, it may be lowered with more syrup of the usual standard. The reason why the fruit is emptied out of the preserving-pan into an earthen pan is, that the acid of the fruit acts upon the coppei", of which the preserving- pans are usually made. From this ex- ample the process of preserving fruits by syrup will be easily comprehended. The first object is to soften the fruit by blanching or boiling it in water, in order that the syrup by which it is preserved may penetrate through its substance. Many fruits, when preserved by boil- ing, lose much of their pecuUar and deli- cato flavour, as, for instance, pine-apples; and this inconvenience may, in some in- stances, be remedied by preserving them without heat. Cut the fruit in slices about one-fifth of an inch thick, strew powdered loaf sugar an eighth of an inch thick on the bottom of a jar, and put tha slices on it. Put more sugar on this, and then another layer of the slices, and so on- till the jar is full. Place the jar with the fruit up to the neck in boiling water, and keep it there till the sugar is completely dissolved, which may take half-an-hour, removing the scum as it rises. Lastly, tie a wet bladder over the mouth of the jar, or cork and wax it. Any of tho fraits that have been pre- served in syrup may be converted into diy preserves, by first draining them from tho syruji, and then drying them in a stovo or very moderate oven, adding270 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Preserves to them a quantity of powdered loaf- sugar, which will gradually penetrate the fruit, while the fluid parts of the fruit gently evaporate. They should be dried in the stove or oven on a sieve, and turned every six or eight hours, fresh powdered sugar being sifted over them every time they are turned. Afterwards, they are to be liept in a dry situation, in drawers or boxes. Currtnits and cher- ries preserved whole in this"mannv;r, in bunches, are extremely elegant, and have a fine flavour. In this way it is, also, that orange and lemon chips are pre-\ served. Marmalades, jams, and fruit pastes are of the same nature, and are now in very general request. They are prepared without difficulty, by attending to a very few du'ections ; they are somewhat ex- pensive, but may be kept without spoil- ing for a considerable time. Marmalades and jams differ little from each other: they are preserves of a half-liquid con- sistency, made by boiling the pulp of fruits, and sometimes part of the rinds, with sugar. The appellation of marma- lade is applied to those confitures which are composed of the firmer fruits, as pineapples or the rinds of oranges; whereas jams are made of the more juicy berries, such as strawberries, rasp- berries, currants, mulberries, &c. Fruit pastes are a kind of marmalades, con- sisting of the pulp of fruits, first evapo- rated to a proper consistency, and after- wards boiled with sugar. The mixture is then poured into a mould, or spread on sheets of tin, and subsequently dried in the oven or stove till it has acquired the state of a paste. From a sheet of this paste, strips may be cut and formed into any shape that may be desired, as knots, rings, &c. Jams require the same care and attention in the boiling as marmalade; the slightest degree of burning communicates a disagreeable empyreumatic tasto, and if they are not boiled sufficiently, they will not keep. That they may keep, it is necessary not to be sparing of sugar. In all the operations for preserve- making, when the preserving-pan is used, it should not bo placed on the fire but on a trivet, unless tho jam bo made on a hot plate, when this is not necessary. If the pan be placed close on to the fire, the preserve is very liable to burn, and the colour and flavour bo consoquontly spoiled. The Ptarmigan Fruit jellic3 are compounds of tho juices of fruits combined with sugar, concentrated, by boiUng, to such a con- sistency that the liquid, upon cooling, assumes the form of a tremulous jelly. Before fruits are candied, they must first be boiled in syrup, after which they are taken out and dried on a stove, or before the fire ; the syrup is then to be concentrated, or boiled to a candy height, and the fruit dipped in it, and again laid on the stove to dry and candy ; they are then to be put into boxes, and kei)t dry. Conserves consist of fresh vegetable ^atters beat into a uniform mass with ^d sugar, and they are intended to pressKve the virtues and properties of recen^flowers, leaves, roots, peels, or fruits, unaltered, and as near as possible to what they were when fresh gathered, and to give them an agreeable taste. The last to be mentioned, but not the least important preparation of fruit, is the comp6te, which can be made at the moment of need, and with much less sugar than would be ordinarily put to preserves. Comp6tes are very whole- some things, suitable to most stomachs which cannot accommodate themselves to raw fruit or a large portion of sugar. They are the happy medium—far better than ordinary stewed fruit. PTABMIGAW, the, or Wldte Grouse. This bird is nearly the same size as red grouse, and is fond of lofty situa- tions, where it braves the severest weather, and is found in most parts of Europe, as well as in Greenland. At THB PTABMIGAW. Iludson's Bay they appear in such mul- titudes that so many as sixty or seventy are frequently taken at onco iu a ne»THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2V1 Ptarmigan, to Dress As they are as tame as chickens, this is done without diflaculty. Buffon says that the ptarmigan avoids the solar heat, and prefers the frosts of the summits of the mountains; for, as the snow melts on the sides of the mountains, it ascends till it gains the top, where it makes a hole, and burrows in the snow. In winter, it flies in flocks, and feeds on the wild vegetation of the hills, which imparts to its flesh a bitter, but not altogether an unpalatable taste. It is dark - coloured, has something of the flavour of the hai-e, and is greatly relished and much sought after by some sports- men. PTABMIGAN, to Dress the. Ingredients.—2 or 3 birds; butter, flour, fried bread crumbs. Mode.—The ptarmigan, or white grotise, when young and tender, are exceedingly fine eating, and should be kept as long as possible, to be good. Pluck, draw, and truss them in the same manner as grouse, and roast them before a bi-isk fire. Flour and froth them nicely, and serve on buttered toast, with a tureen of brown gravy. Bread sauce, when liked, may be sent to table with them, and fried bread crumbs substituted for the toasted bread. Time.—About h hour. Sufficient, —2 for a dish. Seasonable from the be- ginning of February to the end of April. PTAHMIGAN", to Carve. Ptarmigan, being much of the same size, and trussed in the same manner, as the red bird, may be cai'ved in the manner described, in Partridge and Grouse carving. PUDDING, Alma. Ingredients.—^ lb. of fresh butter, lb. of powdered sugar, \ lb. of flour, lb. of currants, 4 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a thick cream, strew in, by degrees, the sugar, and mix both these well together; then dredge the flour in gradually, add the currants, and moisten with the eggs, which should be well beaten. "When all the ingredients are well stirred and mixed, butter a mould that will hold the mixture exactly, tie it down with a cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for 6 hours; when turned out, strew some powdered sugar over it, and gerve. Time,—6 hours, Pudding, Bakewell Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient^ for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDIITG, Aunt Welly's. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of treacle, ^ lb. of suet, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, a few strips of candied lemon- peel, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 eggs. Jl/ocfe.—Chop the suet finely ; mix it withtheflour, treacle, lemon-peel minced, and candied lemon-peel; add the cream, lemon-juice, and 2 well-beaten eggs; beat the pudding well, put it into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil from 3^ to 4 hours. Time.—^ to 4 hours. 'Average cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at_ any time, but more suitable for a winter pudding, PUDDING, a Bachelor's. Ingredients.—4 oz. of grated bread, 4 oz. of currants, 4 oz. of apples, 2 oz. of sugar, 3 eggs, a few drops of essence of lemon, a little grated nutmeg. Mode. —Pare, core, and mince the apples very finely, sufi&cient, when minced, to make 4 oz. ; add to these the cm-rants, which should be well washed, the grated bread, and sugar; whisk the eggs, beat these up with the remaining ingredients, and, when all is thoroughly mixed, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, ^d. Suf- ficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fi'om August to March. PUDDING, Bakewell (very Bich). Ingredients.—\ lb. of puflf-paste, 5 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, \ lb. of butter, 1 oz. of almonds, jam. Mode.—Cover a dish with thin paste, and put over this a layer of any kind of jam, ^ inch thick ; put the yolks of 5 eggs into a basin with the white of 1, and beat these well; add the sifted sugar, the butter, which should bo melted, and the almonds, which should bo well pounded ; beat all together until well mixed, then pour it into the dish over the jam, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Time.—Ihour. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, BakeweU. Ingredients.—| pint of bread crumb.'?, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar,THE DICTIONARY OF C00KEE7. 272 Pudding, Baroness 3 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of pounded almonds, jam. Mode.—Put the broad ci-umb3 at the bottom of apio-disli, then over them a layer of jam of any kind that may bo preferred ; mix the milk and eggs to- gether; add the sugar, butter, and ' pounded almonds; beat all well to- - gcther ; pour it into the dish, and bake in a moderato oven for 1 hour. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. to Is. Qd, Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any tinj.e. PUDDING-, Baroness (Author's Hecipe). Ingredients.—f lb. of suet, f lb. of raisins weighed after being stoned, f lb. of flour, h pint of milk, \ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Prepare the suet, by care- fully freeing it from skin, and chop it finely ; stone the raisins, and cut them in halves, and mix both these ingredients •with the salt and flour ; moisten the ■whole with the above proportion of milk, stir the mixture well, and tie the pud- ding in a floured cloth, which has been greviously wrung out in boiling water, ^vt tha pudding into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and let it boil, without ceas- ing, 4.^ hours. Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding. Time.—4.^ hours. Average cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. Note.—This pudding the editress can- not too highlj'' recommend. The recipe was kindly given to her family by a lady who bore the title here prefixed to it; and with all who have partaken of it, it is an especial favourite. Nothing is of greater consequence, in the above direc- tions, than attention to the time of boil- ing, which should never be less than that mentioned. PUDDING, Boyal Coburg. Ingredients,—1 pint of new milk, 6oz. of flour, G oz. of sugar, G oz. of butter, 6 oz. of currants, t) eggs, brandy and grated nutmeg to taste. J/orfe.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk, add the remaining ingredients gradualli/, and when well mixed, put it into four basins or moulds half full ; bako for ^ hour, turn tho puddings out on a dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—^ hour. Arerctr/e cost, 1». 8rf. Pudding, Comarques (Sji^cien^ for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable -. * at any time. )- PUDDING, Cold. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 1 pint of milk,, ? sugar to taste, a little grated lemon- .( rind, 2 oz. of raisins, 4 tablespoonfuld " of marmalade, a few slices of sponge cake. Mode.—Sweeten tho milk with. " lump sugar, add a little grated lemon- • t rind, and stir to this the eggs, which; 1; should be well whisked ; line a buttered I mould with the raisins, stoned and cut in half; spread the slices of cake with the marmalade, and place them in tho ■ mould ; then pour in the custard, tie the pudding down with paper and a i _ cloth, and boil gently for 1 hour: when cold, tura it out, and serve. Time. — ~ 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 2d. Svfficie-nt'. ^ for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, CoUege. ^ Ingredients.—1 pint of bread crumbs, td 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, | lb. of ' jr, currants, a few thin slices of candied . ;i peel, 3 oz. of sugar, ^ nutmeg, 3 eggs, . ^ 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.— .i. Put the bread crumbs into a basin ; add . h, the suet, currants, candied peel, sugar, „ and nutmeg, grated, and stir these in- j gradients until they are thoroughly • mixed. Beat up the eggs, moisten tho » p pudding with these, and put in the > brandy ; beat well for a few minutes, then form the mixture into round balls or egg-shaped pieces; fry these in hot • butter or lard, letting them stew in it . ;■ until thoroughly done, and turn them two or three times, till of a tine light brown; drain them on a piece of blot- ■• ting-paper before the fire; dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—15 to ;i 20 ininut,es. Average cost. Is. Sifficient ' for 7 or 8 puddings'. Seasonable at any ^ time. PUDDING, Comaraues (Excellent), Ingredients.—5 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls t of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered ^ sugar, rind of 1 lonion, h pint of cream, dillerent kinds of preserve. Mode— Boat tho whites and yolks of the cgga separately, and put thorn into different basins ; stir the flour, sugar, and lemon- ^ peel into the yolks ; whip tho cream very l^>ck and put it on n sieve to ^ harden 'fthen add it, with tho whites of ,,273 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Pudding, Delhi the eggs, to the other ingi-edieots, and pour the mixture into little deep saucers jast before putting into the oven. Bake about h an hour. When they are taken out, a very thin layer of different kinds of preserve should be put upon each, and they should be piled one above another, A little whipped cream placed here and there on the pudding as a garnish would be found to improve the appearance of this dish. Time.—About ^ an hour. Average cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Delhi. Ingredients.—4 large apples, a little Ifrated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 large tablespoonfuls of sugar, 6 oz. of currants, ^ lb. of suet crust. Mode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices; put them into a saucepan with the nutmeg, lemon-peel, md sugar, stew them over the fire till soft; then have ready the above quantity Df crust, roll it out thin, spread the ipples over the paste, sprinkle over the currants, roll the pudding up, closing Lhe ends properly, tie it in a floured jloth, and boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 tiours. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 3r 6 persons. Seasonable.—August to March. PUDDING, Empress. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, 2 oz. of Dutter, 3 eggs, jam, sufficient milk to soften the rice. Mode.—Boil the rice n the milk until very solt; then add ihe butter, boil it for a few minutes xfter the latter ingredient is put in, and sot it by to cool. Well beat the eggs, itir these in, and line a dish with puff- paste ; put over this a layer of rice, then 1 thin layer of any kind of jam, then mother layer of rice, and proceed in this nanner until the dish is full; and bake n a moderate oven for ^ hour. This Dudding may be eaten hot or cold; if ho latter, it will be much improved by Slaving a boiled custard poured over it. 7'm«.—I hour. Average cost. Is. Suffi- rientlorQ or 7 persons. Seasonahie'a.t my time. PUDDING-, Exeter (Very Bich). Ingredients. —10 oz. of bread-crumbs, t oz. of sago, 7 oz. of finely-chopped JUGt, C oz. of moist sugar, the rind of Pudding, German ^ lemon, | pint of rum, 7 eggs, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, 4 small sponge-cakes, 2 oz. of ratafias, h lb. of jam. Mode.— Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sago, suet, sugar, minced lemon- peel, rum, and 4 eggs ; stir these ingre- dients well together, then add 3 more eggs and the cream, and let the mixture be well beaten. Then butter a mould, strew in a few bread-crumbs, and cover the bottom with a layer of ratafias; then put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of sliced sponge - cake spread thickly with any kind of jam ; then add some ratafias, then some of the mixture and sponge-cake, and so on until the mould is full, taking care that a layer of the mixture is on the top of the pudding. Bake in a good oven from f to 1 hour, and serve with the following sauce :— Put 3 tablespoonfuls of black-currant jelly into a stewpan, add 2 glasses of sherry, and when warm, turn the pud- ding out of the mould, pour the sauce over it and serve hot. Time.—From 1 to 1^ hour. Average cost, 2s. Qd. Suffi- cient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING-PIES, Folkestone. Ingredients,—1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of ground rice, 3 oz. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, flavouring of lemon-peel or bay- leaf, 6 eggs, puflf-paste, currants. Mode. —Infuse 2 laurel or bay leaves, or the rind of h lemon in the milk, and whei. it is well flavoured, strain it, and add the rice ; boil these for \ hour, stirring all the time ; then take them off the fir*, i«rtf in the butter, sugar, and eggs, and let these latter be well beaten before they are added to the other ingre- dients ; when nearly cold, line some patty-pans with puff-paste, fill with the custard, strew over each a few currants, and bake from 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate oven. _ Tme.—20 to 25 mi- nutes. Average cost, Is. Id. Sufficient to fill a dozen patty-pans. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, German. Ingredients.—2 toaspoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, the rind of h lemon, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Boil the milk with the lemon-rind until well flavoured ; theij strain it, and mix with it tbo flour, ar-THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 274 Pudding, Half-pay rowroot, butter, and sugar. Boil these ingredients for a few minutes, keeping them well stirred ; then take them off the fire and mix with them the eggs, yolks and whites, beaten separately and added separately. Boil some sugar to candy; line a mould with this, put in the brandy, then the mixture; tie down with a cloth, and boil for rather more than 1 hour. When turned out, the brandy and sugar make a nice sauce. Time.—Rather moi'e than 1 hour. Ave- rage cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Half-Pay. Ingredients.—\ lb. of suet, \ lb. of currants, | lb. of raisins, ^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle, § pint of milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the currants, which should be nicely washed and dried, the raisins, which should be stoned, the flour, bread-crumbs, and treacle; moisten with the milk, beat up the ingredients until all are thoroughly mixed, put them into a buttered basin, and boil the pud- ding for 3^ hours. Time.—3| hours. Average cost, M. Sufficient for 5 or C persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Herodotus. Ingredients.—g lb. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of good figs,' 6 oz. of suet, 6 oz. of moist sugar, | saltspoonful of salt, 3 eggs, nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Mince the suet and figs veiy finely; add the remaining ingredients, taking care that the eggs are well whisked; beat the mixture for a few minutes, put it into a buttered mould, tie it down with a floured cloth, and boil the pudding for 5 hours. Serve with wine sauce. Time.— 5 hours. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Hunter's. Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb, of suet, 1 lb. of bread- crumbs, J lb. of moist sugar, 8 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, ^ lb. of mixed candied peel, 1 glass of brandy, 10 drops of essence of lemon, 10 drops of essence of almonds, J nutmeg, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves. Mode.—Stono and Bhred the raisins rather small, chop the suet finely, and rub the bread until all lumps are well broken; pound the spice Pudding, Mansfield to powder, cut the candied peel into thin shreds, and mix all these ingredients well together, adding the sugat. Beat the eggs to a strong froth, and as they are beaten, drop into them the essence of lemon and essence of almonds; stir these to the dry ingredients, mix well, and add the brandy. Tie the pudding firmly in a. cloth, and boil it for 6 hours at the least ■ i 7 or 8 hours would be still better for it. : Serve with boiled custard, melted red-cur- i rant jelly, or brandy sauce. Time. —C to 8■ i hours. Average cost, Zs. 6d. Sufficient: : for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in winter, i i PUDDING, Manchester (to eat: ' Cold). Ingredients.—3 oz. of grated bread, h f pint of milk, a strip of lemon-peel, 4-. eggs, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, puff-paste, jam, 3 tablespoonfuls ol ■ brandy. Mode.—Flavour the milk with. •- lemon-peel, by infusing it in the milk foi - ■ ^ hour ; then strain it on to the bread- • :' crumbs, and boil it for 2 or 3 minutes;: ^ add the eggs, leaving out the whites oi i " 2, the butter, sugar, and brandy; stir al^ i these ingredients well together ; cover f pie-dish with puff-paste, and at the bet tom put a thick layer of any kind o. jam ; pour the above mixture, cold, aom?- the jam, and bake the pudding for ar r' hour. Serve cold, with a httle sitle sugar sprinkled over. Tim^.—1 hour. , Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or (I >i persons. Seasonable at any time. ~ PUDDING, Mansfield. Ingredients.—The crumb of 2 rolls, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, 11 ^ tablespoonfuls of brandy, G oz. of chop- . pod suet, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, ^ lb of currants, J teaspoonful of gratoc : nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream J/orfc—Slice the roll very then, anc pour upon it a pint of boiling milk ; le' : . it remain closely covered for J hour, thei beat it up with a fork, and sweeten witl i moist sugar; stir in the chopped s:ot i flour, currants, and nutmeg. Mix i ^ ingredients well together, moisten . .i! the eggs, brandy, and cream; beat tbi mixture for 2 or 3 minutes, put it into ( buttered dish or mould, and bake in! moderate oven for 1^ hour. Turn it >nit strew sifted sugar over, and f ye Time.—li hour. Average cost, Is. o.j Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SeasoJiaU at any time. i275 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Pudding, Marlborougli PUDDlJMUr, Marlborough.. Ingredienis.—l lb. of butter, \ lb. of powdered lump sugar, 4 eggs, puff-paste, a layer of any kind of jam. Mode.—Beat the butter to a '.ream, stir in the pow- dered sugai-, w'jisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. When these are well mixed, line a dish with puff-paste, spread over a layer of any kind of jam that may be preferred, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding for rat) er more than ^ hour. Time.— Rathej more than ^ hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season- able at any time. PTJDDIWG, Military. Tngredients.—^ lb. of suet, \ lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of moist sugar, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.— Chop the suet finely, mix it with the bread-crumbs and sugar, and mince the lemon-rind and strain the juice; stir these into the other ingredients, mix well, and put the mixture into small buttered cups, and bake for rather more than ^ hour; turn them out on the dish, and serve with lemon-sauce. The above in- gredients may be made into small balls, and boiled for about ^ hour ; they should then \e served with the same sauce as when \)aked. Time.—Rather more than ■3 hour Average cost, 9d. S%ifficient to fill 6 0) 7 moderate-sized cups. Season- able at any time. PUDDING, Monday's. Ingredients. — The remains of cold plum-pudding, brandy, custard made ivith 6 eggs to every pint of milk. Mode.—Cut the remains of a good cold plum-pudding into finger-pieces, soak them in a little brandy, and lay them sross-barred in a mould until full. Make i custard with the above proportion of milk and eggs, flavouring it with nut- nneg or Icmon-rind; fill up the mould ivith it; tie it down with a cloth, and 3oil or steam it for an hour. Serve with I little of the custard poured over, to ivhich has been added a tablespoonful of jrandy. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, )xclusivo of the pudding, Qd. Sufficient 'or 5 or 6 porsona. Seasonable afc any Pudding, Pease PUDDING-, Nesselrode (a fasMon- able Iced Pudding —Catenae's Kecipe). Ingredients.— 40 chestnuts, 1 lb. of sugar, flavouring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino, 1 oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, ^ pint of whipped cream, 3 eggs. Mode. —Blanch the chestnuts in the boiling water, remove the husks, and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of synip. Then rub them through a fine sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of syrup made from 1 lb. of sugar, clarified, and flavoured with vanilla, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mix- ture over a slow fire, stirring it witJioui ceasing, and just as it begins to boil, take it off and pass it through a tammy. When it is cold, put it into a freezing-pot, adding the Maraschino, and make the mixture set; then add the sliced citron, the currants, and stoned raisins (these two latter should be soaked the day pre- viously in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla); the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a pine-apple-shaped mould; close the lid, place it again in the freezing-pan, covered over with pounded ice and saltpetre, and let it remain until required for table; then turn the pudding out, and serve. Time.—I hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable from October to February. PUDDING, Paradise. Ingredients.—d eggs, 3 apples, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, 3 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of currants, salt and grated nutmeg to taste, the rind of ^ lemon, ^ wineglass- ful of brandy. 31ode.—P&VQ, core, and mince the apples into small pieces, and mix them with the other dry ingi-edients; beat up the eggs, moisten the mixture with these, and beat it well; stir in the brandy, and put the pudding into a buttered mould ; tie it down with a cloth, boil for 1^ hour, and servo with sweet sauce. Time.—labour. Averagt cost, Is. Suffiicicnt for 4''or 5 persons. PUDDING, Pease. Ingredients.—1^ pint of split peas, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, pepper aud saltTEE DICTIONARY OP COOKEEY. 276 Pudding, Q,uickly-made to taste. Mode.—Put the peas to soak over nisht, in rain-water, and float o(f any that are worm-eaten or discoloured. Tie them loosely in a clean cloth, leaving a little room for them to swell, and put them on to boil in cold rain-water, allow- ing 2^ hours after the water has simmered up. When the peas are tender, take them up and drain ; rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon ; add the butter, eggs, pepper, and salt; beat all well together for a few minutes, until the ingredients are well incorporated; then tie them tightly in a floured cloth ; boil the pudding for another hour, turn it on to the dish, and serve very hot. This pudding should always be sent to table with boiled leg of purk, and is an exceedingly nice accompaniment to boiled beef. 2'me.—2^ hours to boil the peas, tied loosely in the cloth ; 1 hour for the pudding. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to March. .PUDDING, Quickly-Made. Ingredients.—^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, \ lb. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a little grated lemon-rind. Mode. —Make the milk hot; stir in the butter, and let it cool before the other ingre- dients are added to it; then sti-j in the sugar, flour, and eggs, which should bo well whisked, and omit the whites of 2 ; flavour with a little grated lemon-rind, and beat the mixtui-o well. Butter some small cups, rather more than half fill them ; bake from 20 minutes to ^ hour, according to the size of the puddings, and serve with fruit, custard or wine- sauce, a little of which may be poured over them. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, \s. 2d. Sufficient for 6 pud- dings. Seasonable at any time. PUDDITTGr, Somersetshire. Ingredients.—d eggs, their weight in flour, pounded sugar and butter, flavour- ing of grated lemon-rind, bitter almonds, or essence of vanilla. Mode.—Carefully weigh the various ingredients, by placing on one side of the scales the eggs, and on the other the flour ; then the sugar, and then the butter. Warm the butter, and with the hands beat it to a cream ; gradually dredge in the flour and pounded sugar, and keep stirring and beating the mixture without ceasing until it is per- fectly smooth. Then add tho eggs, which should b^w^whisked, and either Pudding, West Indian of the above flavourings that may ba preferred; butter some small cups, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a brisk oven for about i hour. Turn them out, dish them on a napkin, and serve custard or wine-sauce with them. A pretty little supper-dish may be made of these puddings cold, by cut- ting out a portion of the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity a little whipped cream or delicate preserve, such as apricot, greengage, or very bright marmalade. The paste for these puddings requires a great deal of mixing, as the more it is beaten, the better will the puddings be. \Mien served cold, they are usually called gd- teaux d la Madeleine. Time.—J hour. Average cost, IQd. Sufficient for 6 or 7 puddings. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Vicarage. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, | lb. of: chopped suet, 5 lb. of currants, | lb. of raisins, 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, h teaspoonful of ground ginger, i salt- • spoonful of salt. Mode.—Pat all the' ingredients into a basin, having pre- • viously stoned the raisins, and washed, picked, and dried the currants; mix: well with a clean knife ; dip the pudding- cloth into boiling water, wring it out, and put in the mixture. Have ready a . saucepan of boiling water, plunge in tho • pudding, and boil for 3 hours. Turn ; it out on the dish, and serve with sifted sugar. Time.— d hours. Average cost, 8d. Su^cient for 5 or 6 persons. Sea- ionable.—Suitable for a wmter pudding. PUDDING, West-Indian. Ingredients.—1 pint of cream, \ lb. of ' loaf-sugar, h lb. of Savoy or sponge- cakes, 8 eggs, 3 oz. of preserved green 1 ginger. Mode.—Crumble down the cakes, put them into a basin, and pour over them the cream, which should be pre- viously sweetened and brought to tho boiling-point; cover the basin, well beat the eggs, and when the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a mould, arrange the ginger round it, pour in the pudding carefully, and tie it down with a cloth : steam or boil it slowly for lA hour, and serve with tho syrup from the ginger, which should bo warmed, and poured over the pudding. Tniic—IJ hour. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. 8(1. Suficicnt for 5 or 6 persouSi Seasonable at any tim«.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Pudding, Yorkshire PUDDING, Yorkshire, to serve with hot Koast Beef. Ingredients.—Ih pint of milk, C large Lablespoonfuls of'fiour, 3 eg-gs, 1 salt- spoonful of salt. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin with the salt, and stir gradually to this enough milk to make 't into a stiff batter. When this is per- fectly smooth, and all the lumps are well TOBKSHIBB PTJDDINa. nibbed down, add the remainder of the ailk and the eggs, which should be well seaten. Beat the mixtm'e for a few ninutes, and pour it into a shallow tin, vhich has been previously well rubbed ivith beef dripping. Put the pudding nto the oven, and bake it for an hour ; ;hen, for another i hour, i^lace it under he meat, to catch a little of the gravy ;hat flows from it. Cut the pudding nto small square pieces, put them on a lot dish, and serve. If the meat is Daked, the pudding may at once be placed under it, resting the meat on I small three-cornered stand. Time.— 1^ hour. Average cost, Id. Sufficient 'or 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any ;ime. PUFP.PASTE RINGS, or Puits d'Amour. Ingredients.—Puff'-paste {see Paste), the ivhito of an egg, sifted loaf sugar. Mode. —JIake some good puff-pasto by recipe ; roll it out to the thickness of about \ inch, and, with a round fluted paste- iutter, stamp out as many pieces as may 36 required; then work the paste up igain, and roll it out to the same thick- less, and with a smaller cutter, stamp )ut sufficient pieces to correspond with ;he larger ones. Again stamp out the ;entro of these smaller rings; brush 5ver the others with the white of an egg, place a small ring on the top of every .argo circular piece of paste, egg over ;ho tops, and bake from 1.5 to 20 minutes. Sift over sugar, put them back in the )ven to colour them ; then fill the rinj^s !rith preserve of any bright colour. Dish ihcm high on a napkin, and serve. So nany pretty diahes of pastry may be Tiftdo by stamping puff-pasto out with Punch, to make Hoc fancy cutters, and filling the piecbs, when baked, with jelly or preserve, that our space will not allow us to give a separate recipe for each of them ; but as they are all made from one paste, and only the shape and garnishing varied, perhaps it is not necessary, and by exercising a little ingenuity, variety may always be obtained. Half-moons, leaves, diamonds, stars, shamrocks, rings, &c., are the most appropriate shapes for fancy pastry. Time.—15 to 25 minutes. Average cost, with h lb. of paste. Is. Sufficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. PTJMPKIKT, Preserved. Ingredients.—To each lb. of pumpkin allow 1 lb. of roughly pounded loaf sugar, 1 gill of lemon-juice. Mode.— Obtain a good sweet pumpkin ; halve it, take out the seeds, and pare off the rind; cut it into neat slices, or into pieces about the size of a five-shilling piece. Weigh the pumpkin, put the slices in a pan or deep dish in layers, with the sugar sprinkled between them ; pour the lemon-juice over the top, and let the whole remain for 2 or 3 days. Boil altogether, adding ^ pint of water to every 3 lbs. of sugar used, until the pumpkin becomes tender; then turn the whole into a pan, where let it re- main for a week; then drain off the syrup, boil it until it is quite thick ; skim, and pour it, boiling, over the pumpkin. A little bruised ginger and lemon-rind, thinly pared, may be boiled in the syrup to flavour the pumpkin. Time.—From h to | hour to boil the pumpkin tender. Average cost, 5d. to 7d. per lb. pot. Seasonable in September and October; but bettor when made in the latter month, as the pumpkin is then quite ripe. iVote.—Vegetable marrows are very good prepared in the same manner, bub are not quite so rich. PUNCH, to make Hot. Ingredients.—}> pint of rum, J pint of brandy, ^ lb. of'sugar, 1 large lemon, .J teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode.—Rub the sugar over the lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of tl^e skin, then put the sugar into a pun(lib)wl; add the lemon- iuico (free from pips), and mis. thcaoTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 278 Quails, to Dress two ingredients well together. Pour over them the boiling water, stir well together, add the rum, brandy, and nutmeg ; mix thoroughly, and the punch ■will bo ready to serve. It is very im- portant in making good punch that aU the ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated ; and to insure success, the pro- cesses of mixing must be diligently attended to. Sufficient.—Allow a quart for 4 persons; but this information must be taken cum gram salis ; for the capa- cities of persons for this kind of beve- rage are generally supposed to vary considerably. ^ QUAILS, to Dress. Ingredients. — Quails, butter, toast. Mode.—These birds keep good several days, and should be roasted without drawing. Truss them in the same man- ner as woodcocks ; roast them before a (>iear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on toast. Tirae.—About 20 mi- nutes. Average cost.—Seldom bought. Sufficient, 2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to December. QUAILS. Quails, being ti'ussed and served like Woodcock, may be similarly carved. QUINCE JELLY. Ingredients.—To every pint of juice allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, il/oie.—Pare and slice the quinces, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient ■water to float them. Boil them until tender, and the fruit is reduced to a pulp; strain off the clear juice, and to each pint allow the above proportion of loaf sugar. Boil the juice and sugar together for about f hour; remove all the scum as it rises, and if the jelly ap- pears firm when a little is poured on a plate, it is done. The residue left on the sieve will answer to mako a common marmalade, for immediate use, by boil- ing it with A lb. of common sugar to every lb. of'pulp. Time.—3 hours to boil tho quinces in water ; 5 hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, from M. to \Qd. per lb. pot. Seasonable from August to October. QUINCE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—'lo every lb. of quince pulp' allow ^ lb, of loaf sugar. Mod^,— Eabbit, Boiled Slice the quinces into a preserviD;(-paD i adding sufficient water for them to float place them on tho fire to stew, unti -, reduced to a pulp, keeping them stirrei \ occasionally from the bottom, to preven ; their burning; then pass the pul) ■ 'j through a hair sieve, to keep back th< '■ skin and seeds. Weigh the pulp, and U 1 each lb. add lump sugar in the abovi ■ proportion, broken very smalL Plac p the whole on the fire, and keep it wel stirred from the bottom of the pan witl a wooden spoon, until reduced to a mar malade, which may bo known bj' drop ping a little on a cold plate, when, if i 1 ■ jellies, it is done. Put it into jars whils' ■ hot; let it cool, and cover with pieces o oiled paper cut to the size of tho mouthi: of the jars. The tops of them may b. i ■ afterwards covered with pieces of blad der, or tissue-paper brushed over on botl - sides with the white of an egg. Time.— - 3 hours to boil the quinces without th«. ' sugar ; f hour to boil the pulp with th( ! sugar. Average cost, from 8ci. to 9d. pei: t lb. pot. Sufficient. — Allow 1 pint o: i - sliced quinces for a lb. pot. Seasonabl i \ in August, September, and October. EABBIT, Boiled. Ingredients.—Rabbit; water. Mode. ■ —For boiling, chooserabbits with smooths ; and sharp claws, as that denotes they art: , young: should these be blunt acc ^ rugged, the ears dry and tough, tl. animal is old. After emptying an. skinning it, wash it well in cold water,. ^ and let it soak for about ^ hour in warnu SOILED BABBIT. water, to draw out tho blood. Brir : tho head round to the side, and fas' there by means of a skewer run tin that and tho body. Put tho rabbit lu; sufficient hot water to cover it, let r boil very gently until tender, which will bo in from ^ to # hour, according to iU» ( size and age. Dish it, and smcthor it ■ i either with onion, mushroom, or liver- sauco, or parslcy-and-buttcr ; tho f.'i-iner - i is, however, generally preferred to any f of the last-named saTices. When lirer- eauco is preferred, tlio livw «hovild u«279 THE DICTIOJTAEY OF COOKEEY. Rabbit, Curried boiled for a few minutes, and minced very finely, or rubbed through a sieve before it is added to the sauce. Time.— A very young rabbit, \ hour; a large one, I hour; an old one, 1 hour or longer. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Gd. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to February. RABBIT, Curried. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 pint of stock, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom powder, the juice of h lemon, \ lb. of rice. Mode. —Empty, skin, and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it neatly into joints. Put it into a stewpan with the butter and sliced onions, and let them acquire a nice brown colour, but do not allow them to blacken. Pour in the stock, which should be boiling ; mix the curry powder and flour smoothly with a little water, add it to the stock, with the mushroom powder, and simmer gently for rather more than ^ hour ; squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve in the centre of a dish, with an edging of boiled rice all round. Where economy is studied, water may be substituted for the stock; in this case, the meat and onions must be very nicely browned. A little sour apple and rasped cocoa-nut stewed with the curry will be found a great improvement. Time. —Altogether f hour. A verage cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. RABBIT, Fried. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, flour, dripping, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of minced shalot, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—CyA the rabbit into Heat joints, and flour them well ; make the dripping boil in a fryingpan, put in the rabbit, and fry it a nice brown. Have ready a very hot dish, put in the butter, shalot, and ketchup; arrange the rabbit pyramidically on this, and serve as quickly as possible. Time.—10 minutes. A verage cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufflcient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- tonable from September to February. Note.—The rabbit may be brushed over ■with egg, and sprinkled with bread- crumbs, and fried as above. When cooked in this manner, make a gravy in the pan, and pour it round, but not over the pieces of rabbit. Rabbit or Hare, Ragoiit of RABBIT, ^ la Minuee. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, ^ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, 3 dried mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, 2 glasses of sherry, 1 pint of water. Mode.—Empty, skin, and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it into joints. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pieces of rabbit; add salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and let it cook until three parts done; then put in the remaining ingredients, and boil for about 10 minutes; it will then M ready to serve, b'owls or hare may be dressed in the same manner. Time.—Altogether, 35 minutes. Ave- rage cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. each. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. RABBIT PIE. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, a few slices of ham, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a few forcemeat balls, 3 hard-boiled eggs, h pint of gravy, puff crast. Mode.—Cut the rabbit (which should be young), remove the breast- bone, and bone the legs. Put the rabbit, slices of ham, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns, in layers, and season each layer with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and grated lutmeg. Pour in about | pint of water, cover with crust, and bake in a well-heated oven for about 1^ hour. Should the crust acquire too much colour, place a piece of paper over it to prevent it from burning. When done, pour in at the top, by means of the hole in the middle of the crust, a little good gravy, which may be made of the breast- and leg-bones of the rabbit, and 2 or 3 shank-bones, flavoured with onion, herbs, and spices. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, Irom Is. to Is. 6rf." each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to February. Note.—lhQ liver of the rabbit may be boiled, minced, and mixed with the forcemeat balls, when the flavour is liked. RABBIT OR HARE, Ragoflt of. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 3 teaspoonfula of flour, 3 sliced onions, 2 oz. of butter, a few thin slices of bacon, popper and salt to taste, 2 slices of lemon, 1 bay-leaf,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 280 Babbit, Eoast or Baked 1 glass of port wine, il/ocZe.—Slice tlio onions, and put them into a stewpan with the flour and butter ; place the pan near the fire, stir well as the butter melts, till the onions become a rich brown colour, and add, by degrees, a little water or gravy till the mLxturo is of the consistency of cream. Cut some thin slices of bacon; lay in these with the rabbit, cut into neat joints; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, the lemon and bay-leaf, and let the whole simmer until tender. Pour in the port wine, give one boil, and serve. Time.—About hour to simmer the rabbit. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. BABBIT, Boast or Baked. ' Ingredients. — 1 rabbit, forcemeat, buttered paper, E.n.rnge-meat. Mode.— Empty, skin, and thoroughly wash the rabbit; wipe it dry, line the inside with sausage-meat and forcemeat, and to which has been added the minced liver. Sew the stuffing inside, skewer back the head_between the shoulders, cut off the fore-joints of the shoulders and legs, bring them close to the body, and secure then! by means of a skewer. Wrap the rabbit in buttered paper, and put it SO^SI BABBIT. down to a bright clear 5re ; keep it well basted and a few minutes before it is done remove the paper, flour and froth it, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Take out the skewers, and serve with brown gravy and red-currant jelly. To bake the r.ibbit, proceed in the same manner as above; in a good oven, it will take about tbo samo time as roasting. Time.—A young rabbit, 35 minutes ; a largo one about ^ hour. Average cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to February. BABBIT SOUP. Ingredients.—2 largo rabbits, or 8 email ones; a faggot of savoury herbs, A head of celery, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 Blade of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, R little pounded mace, .J pint of Babbit Stewed, Larded cream, the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, the crumb of a French roll, nearly 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Make the soup with the legs and shoulders of the rabbit, and keep the nice pieces for a dish or entree. Put them into warm water, and draw the blood ; when quite clean, put them into a stewpan, with a faggot of herbs, and a teacupful, or rather more, of veal stock or water. Simmer slowly till done through, add the three quarts of water, and boil for an hour. Take out the rabbit, pick the meat from the bonc-e, covering it up to keep it white ; put the bones back in the liquor, add the vege- tables, and simmer for two hours ; skim and strain, and let it cooL Now pound the meat in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs, and the crumb of the roll pre- viously soaked ; rub it through a tammy, and gradually add it to the strained liquor, and simmer for 15 minutes. Mix arrowroot or rice-flour with the cream (say 2 dessert-spoonfuls), and stir in the soup ; bring it to aboil, and serve. This soup must be very white, and instead of thickening it with arrowroot or rice-flour, vermicelli or pearl barley can be boiled in a little stock, and put in five minutes before serving. Time.—Nearly 4 hours. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. BABBIT, Stewed. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 large onions, 6 cloves, 1 small teaspoonful of chopped lemon-peel, a few forcemeat balls, thickening of butter and flour, 1 large tablcspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the rabbit into small joints; put them into a stewpan, add the onions sliced, the cloves, and minced lemon- peel. Pour in sufficient water to cover the meat, and, when the rabbit is nearly done, drop in a few forceme.it balls, to which has been added the liver, finely chopped. Thicken the gravj with flour and butter, put in tho ketchup, give one boil, and serve. Ti'mc—Rather more than h hour. Average cost, Is. to Is. Od. each." Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to February. BABBIT STEWED, Larded. Ingredicnt.i.—l rabbit, a few strips of bacon, rather more than 1 pint of good broth or stock, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to tasto, thicken.THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Kabbits, Stewed in Milk ing of butter and flour, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.—Well wash the rabbit, cut it into quarters, lard them with slips of bacon, and fry them ; then put them into a stewpan with the broth, herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; simmer gently until the rabbit is tender, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and floui-, add the sherry, let it boil, pour it over the rabbit, and serve. Garnish with slices of cut lemon. Time. —Eather more than ^ hour. Average cost, \s. to Is. Qd. each. 'Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable irom September to February. BABBITS, Stewed in Milk. Ingredients.—2 very young rabbits, not nearly half gi'own ; Ih pint of milk, 1 blade of mace, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a little salt and cayenne. Mode.— Mix the flour very smoothly with 4 tablo- spooafuls of the milk, and when this is well mixed, add the remainder. Cut up the rabbits into joints, put thom into a stewpan, with the milk and other ingre- dients, and simmer them very gently imtil quite tender. Stir the contents from time to time, to keep the milk smooth and prevent it from burning. A hour will be sufficient for the cooking of this dish. Time.—h hour. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to February. BABBITS, to carve. In carving a boiled rabbit, let the knife be drawn on each side of the back- bone, the whole length of the rabbit, as ihown by the dotted line 3 to 4 : thus the rabbit will be in three parts. Now BOILED BABBIT. let the back be divided into two equal parts in the direction of the lino from 1 to 2; then let the leg bo taken off, as shown by the line 5 to 6, and the shoulder, as shown by the lino 7 to 8. This, in our opinion, is tho best plan to carve a rabbit, although thsro are other modes which are preferred by some. Baised Pie, of Poultry or Game A roast rabbit is rather differently trussed from one that is meant to be boiled; but the carving is nearly similar, BOAST BABBIT. as will be seen by the cut. The back shoutd be divided into as many pieces as it will give, and the legs and shoulders can then be disengaged in the same manner as those of the boiled animal. BAISED PIE, of Poultry or Game. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow s lb of butter, J iiiiit of water, tho yolks of 2 eggs, k teaspoonful of salt (these are for the crust); 1 large fowl or pheasant, a few slices of veal cutlet, a few slices of dressed ham, forcemeat, seasoning of nutmeg, allspice, pepper and salt, gravy. Mode.—IMake a stiff short crust with the above proportion of butter, flour, water, and eggs, and work it up very smoothly ; butter a raised-pie mould, and line it with paste. Previously to making the crust, bone the fowl, or whatever bird is intended to be used^ lay it, breast downwai'ds, upon a cloth, and season the inside well with pounded mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; then spread over it a laj'er of forcemeat, then a layer of seasoned veal, and then one of ham, and then another layer of force- meat, and roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back. Line the pio with forcemeat, put in the fowl, and fill up the cavities with slices of seasoned veal, and ham, and forcemeat; wet the edges of the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges together with the paste- incers, and decorate it with leaves; rush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. In the mean time, make a good strong gravy from tho bones, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top ; cover this hole with a small leaf, and tho pie, when cold, will bo ready for use. Let it be remembered that the gravy mxist be considerably reduced before it is poured into the pie, as, when cold, it should form a firm jelly, and not be the least dogrco in a liquid state. This recipe is suitable for all kinds of poultry or game, using one or more birds, according to tho size of the pio intended to bo mado ;282 THE DIOTIONAUY OP COOKERY. Baised Pie, of Veal and Ham but the birds must always be boned. TrufHes, mushrooms, &c., added to this pie, make it much nicer ; and, to enrich it, lard the fleshy parts of the poultry or game with thin strips of bacon. This method of forming raised pies in a mould is generally called a iimbale, and has the advantage of being more easily made than one where the paste is raised by the hands; the crust, besides, being eatable. Time.—Large pie, 4 hours. Average cost, 6s. 6d. Seasonable, with poultry, all the year; with game, from September to March. BAISED PIE, of Veal and Ham, Ingredients.—3 or 4 lbs. of veal cutlets, a few slices of bacon or ham, seasoning of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and allspice, forcemeat, 2 lbs. of hot-water paste, ^ pint of good strong gravy. Mode.—To raise the crust for a pie with the hands is a very difficult task, and can only be accomplished by skilled and experienced cooks. The process should be seen to be satisfactorily learnt, and plenty of practice given to the making of raised pies, as by that means only will success be insured. Make a hot-water paste by BAISED FIS. recipe, and from the mass raise the pie with the hands ; if this cannot be accom- Elished, cut out pieces for the top and ottom, and a long piece for the sides; fasten the bottom and side-piece together by means of egg, and pinch the edges well together; then lino the pie with forcemeat, put in a layer of veal, and a plentiful seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and allspice ; for, let it be re- membered, these pies taste very insipid unless highly seasoned. Over tho sea- soning place a layer of sliced bacon or cooked ham, and then a layer of force- meat, veal seasoning, and bacon, and so on until tho meat rises to about an inch above the paste ; taking care to finish with a layer of forcemeat, to fill all tho cavities of th-s pie, aud to lay in tlio moat Baisin Pudding, Boiled firmly and compactly. Brush tho top edge of the pie with beaten egg, put on the cover, press the edges, and pinch them round with paste-pincers. Make a hole in the middle of the lid, and orna- ment the pie with leaves, which should be stuck on with the whiteof an egg; then brush it all over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake the pie in an oven with a soaking heat from 3 to 4 hours. To ascertain when it is done, run a sharp- poiutod knife or skewer through the hole at the top into the middle of the pie, and if the meat feels tender, it is suffi- ciently baked. Have ready about h pint of very strong gravy, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top, stop up the hole with a small leaf of baked paste, and put the pie away until wanted for use. Should it acquire too much colour in the baking, cover it with white paper, as the crust should not in the • least degree be burnt. Mushrooms, truffles, and many other ingredients, may be added to enrich the flavour of these pies, and the very fleshy parts of the meat may be larded. These pies are' more frequently served cold than hot,. and form excellent dishes for cold I suppers or breakfasts. The cover of the ; pie is sometimes carefully removed,, leaving the perfect edges, and the top > decorated with square pieces of very • bright aspic jelly: this has an exceed- ingly pretty effect. Time.—About 4 •. hours. Average cost, 6s. 6d. Sufficient for a very large pie. Seasonable from March to October. BAISIN CHEESE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of raisins, allow h lb. of loaf sugar; pounded, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Mode.— Stone tho raisins; put them into s i stewpan with tho sugar, cinnamon, and cloves, and let them boil for 1^ hour, stirring all the time. Let the prepa- ration cool a little, pour it into a glass dish, and garnish with strips of candid lemon-peel and citron. This will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—1.^ hour. Average cost,^d. Suffi- cient.—! lb. for 4 or 5 persons. SeasoTi- able at any time. BAISIN" PUDDING, BoUed. (Plain and Economical). Inqredien(s.—l lb. of flour, i lb. of. stoned raisins, J lb, of chopped suet, i285 •tHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, Eaisin Pudding, Baked saltspoonful of salt, milk. Mode.—After aaving stoned the raisins and chopped ;he suet finely, mix them with the flour, idd the salt, atid when these dry ingre- iients are thoroughly mixed, moisten ;he pudding with sufficient milk to make t into a rather stifi" paste. Tie it up in I fioiu-ed cloth, put it into boiling water, md boil for 4 hours: serve with sifted sugar. This pudding may also be made n a long shape, the same as a rolled jam- judding, and will not require quite so ong boiling;—2^ hours would then be luite sufficient. Time.—Made round, 4 lours ; in a long shape, 21 hours. Ave- •age cost, 9d. Sufficient for"8 or 9 persons. ■reasonable in winter. flAISIN PUDDING-, Baked. (Plain and Economical.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, f lb. of toned raisins, h lb. of suet, a pinch of alt, 1 oz. of sugar, a little gi-ated nutmeg, nilk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely ; tone the raisins and cut them in halves ; nix these with the suet, add the salt, ugar, and grated nutmeg, and moisten he whole with sufficient milk to make it •f the consistency of thick batter. Put .ho pudding into a pie-dish, and bake or lA hour, or rather longer. Turn it lut of the dish, strew sifted sugar over, md serve. This is a veiy plain recipe, iud suitable where there is a family of ihildren. It, of courso, can be much mproved by the addition of candied peel, uri-ants, and rather a larger proportion if suet: a few eggs would also make the (udding richer. Time.—1^ hour. Ave- nge cost, 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 lersons. Seasonable in winter. iAMAKINS, to serve with the Cheese Course. Ingredients.—\ lb. of Cheshire cheese, • lb. of Parmesan cheese, ^ lb. of fresh •utter, 4 eggs, the crumb of a mall roll; pepper, salt, and pounded naco to taste. Mode.—Boil the crumb ■f the roll in milk for 5 minutes ; strain, .nd put it into a mortar; add the cheese, rhich should bo finely scraped, the mtter, the yolks of the eggs, and season- Qg, and pound these ingredients well ogether. Whisk the whites of the eggs, Qix them with the paste, and put it into mall pans or saucers, which sliould not •e more than half filled. Bake them rom 10 to 12 minutes, and Berre them Easpberry Cream very hot and very quickly. This batter answers equally well for macaroni after it is boiled tender, time.—10 or_ 12 minutes. A verage cost. Is. id. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. EAMAKINS PASTRY, to serve with the Cheese Course. Ingredients.—Any pieces of very good light puff-paste, Cheshire, Parmesan, or Stilton cheese. Mode.—The remains or odd pieces of paste left from large tarts, &c., answer for making these little dishes. Gather up the pieces of paste, roll it out evenly, and sprinkle it with grated cheese of a nice flavour. Fold the paste in three, roll it out again, and sprinkle more cheese over; fold the paste, roll it out, and with a paste-cutter shape it in any way that may be desired. Bake the ramakins in a brisk oven from 10 to 15 minutes, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve quickly. The appearance of this dish may be very much improved by brushing the ramakins over with the yolk of egg before they are placed in the oven. Where expense is not objected to, Parmesan is the best kind of cheese to use for making this dish. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, with \ lb. of paste, lOrf. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. RASPBEERY CREAM. Ingredients.—% pint of milk, | pint of cream, 1^ oz. of isinglass, raspberry jelly, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Boil the milk, cream, and isinglass together for \ hour, or until the latter is melted, and strain it through a hair sieve into a basin. Let it cool a Uttle; then add to it sufficient EASrBBEEX-CIlEAM MOULD. raspberry jelly, which, when melted, would make ^ pint, and stir well till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. If not sufficiently sweet, add a little poundedTHE DICTION All ? OP COOKERY. 281 Haspborry Jam sugar with tho brandy ; whisk tho mix- ture well until nearly cold, put it into a well-oiled mould, and set it in a cool place till perfectly set. Kaspbcrry jam may be substituted for tho jelly; but must be molted, and rubbed through a siovo, to free it from seeds: in summer, the juice of the fresh fruit may bo used, by slightly mashing it with a wooden spoon, and sprinkling sugar over it; the juice that flows from the fruit should then be used for mixing with the cream. If the colour should not be very good, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added to improve its appearance. Time. —\ hour to boil the cream and isinglass. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, and the best isinglass, 3s. Sufficient to fill a quart mould with fresh finiit in July. Seasonable, with jelly, at any time. Note.—Strawberry cream may be made in precisely the same manner, substi- tuting strawbeiTy jam or jelly for the raspberry. EASPBEEBY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of raspber- ries allow 1 lb. of sugar, \ pint of red- currant juice. Mode.—Let the fruit for this preserve be gathered in fine weathor, and used as soon after it is picked as possible. Take off the stalks, put the raspberries into a preserving-pan, break them well with a wooden spoon, and let them boD for | hom% keeping them well stirred. Then add the currant-juic3 and sugar, and boil again for | hour. Skim the jam well after the sugar is added, or the preserve will not bo clear. The addition of the currant-juice is a very great improvement to this preserve, as it gives it a piquant taste, which the flavour of the raspberries seems to re- quire. Time.—| hour to sirhmer the fmit without the sugar; ^ hour after it is added. Average cost, from 6d. to &d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow about ] pint of fruit to fill a 1 lb. pot. Season- able in July and August. EASPBEKBY JELLY. Ingredients.—To each pint of juice allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Lo* tho raspberries be freshly gathered, quite ripe, and picked from the stalks; put them into a largo jar, after breaking the fruit a little with a wooden spoon, and placo this jar, covered, in a saucepan of Doihng water. When thejuico is wcU Eataflas drawn, v/hich will bo in from J to 1 houi ■ r strain the fruit through a fine hair sicv B or cloth ; measure the juice, and to ever pint allow the above proportion of loa. i sugar. Put the juice and sugar into > preserving-pan, place it over the fire, an t boil gently until the jelly thickens v. he;' t a little is poured on a plate ; carefull f remove all the scum as it rises, pour th i jelly into small pots, cover down, am j keep in a dry place. This jelly answer- for making raspberry cream, and fq • flavouring various sweet dishes, when, i): ,- winter, the fresh fruit is not obtainable Time.—J to 1 hour to draw the juice- i A vcrage cost, from 9cZ. to Is. per lb. pot I Sufficient.—From 3 pints to 2 quarts o fruit should j'ield 1 pint of juice. Season j able.—This should be made in July o August. EASPBEEEY VINEGAE. f Ingredients.—To every 3 pints of \h> !' best vinegar allow 4h pints of freshly gathered raspberries; to each pint o ,V liquor allow 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar ^ 1 wineglassful of brandy. 3fode.—Le J; the raspberries be freshly gathered, picl. them from the stalks, and put 1.4 pint o ^. them into a stone jar ; pour 3 pints o > ' the best vinegar over them, and let thena ^ remain for 24 hours; then strain thn ; liquor over another pint of fresh rasp;.' berries. Let them remain another 2< ' hoiirs, and the following day repeat thi process for the third time ; then draii i off the liquor without pressing, and pasi-i it through a jelly-bag (previously wettec J with plain vinegar) into a stone jar. Adc | t: to every pint of the liquor 1 lb. p pounded loaf sugar ; stir them together and, when the sugar is dissolved, cotl the jar, set it upon tho fire in a saucepni of boiling water, and let it boil for a- hour, removing the scum as fast as » rises ; add to each pint a glass of brandy bottle it, and seal the corks. This is n: excellent drink in cases of fevers anc > colds: it should bo diluted with cole f 1. water, according to the taste or require ment of tho patient. Time.—To ! < boiled 1 hour. Average cost. Is. pci pint. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. Sta soyiaUe.—Make this in July or August when raspberries are most plentiful. EATAPIAS. j t Jnqrcdients.—.J lb. of sweet almonds,-^ l: \ lb! of bitter ones, J lb. of sifted loa!THE DICTtONAUY OIF COOKESt. 285 Bavigotte, a French. Salad Sauce sugar, tlio white of 4 oggs. Mode.— Blanch, skin, and dry the almonds, and pound them in a mortar with the white of an egg; stir in the sugar, and gradu- ally add the remaining whites of eggs, taking care that they are veiy thoroughly whisked. Drop the mixture, through a small biscuit syringe, on to cartridge- paper, and bake the cakes from 10 to 12 minutes in rather a quick oven. A very small quantity should be dropped on the paper to form one cake, as the mix- tm-e spreads; when baked, the ratifias should be about the size of a large but- ton. Time.—10 to 12 minutes.—Average cost, Is. %d, per lb. EAVIGOTTE, aFrencli SaladSatice (Mona. Ude's Becipe). Ingredients.— 1 teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of cavice, 1 teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, 1 teaspoon- ful of Reading sauce, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; salt and pepper to taste. Mode. —Scald the parsley, mince the leaves very fine, and add to it all the other in- gredients; after mixing the whole together thoroughly, the sauce will be ready for use. Average cost, for this quantity, lOd. Seasonable at any time. BEMOUIiADE, or Frencli Salad- Dressing. Ingredients.—4 eggs, ^ tablespoonful of made mustard, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon or plain vine- gar. Mode.—BoiX 3 eggs quite hard for about \ hour, put them into cold water, and let them remain in it for a few minutes; strip off the shells, put the yolks in a mortar, and pound them very smoothly ; add to them, very gradually, the mustard, seasoning, and vinegar, keeping all well stirred and rubbed down with the back of a wooden spoon. Put in the oil drop by drop, and when this is thoroughly mixed with the other in- gredients, add the yolk of a raw egg, .Tjid stir well, when it will bo ready for use. This sauce should not be curdled ; and to prevent this, the only way is to mix a little of everything at a time, and iiot to cease stirring. The quantities of oil and vinegar may bo increased or diminished according to taste, as many Kliubarb and Orange Jam persons would prefer a smaller propor- tion of the former ingredient. Green Remoulade is made by using tarragon vinegar instead of plain, and colouring with a little parsley-juice. Harvey's sauce, or Chili vinegar, may be added at pleasure. Time.—\ hour to boil the eggs. Average cost, for this quantity, Id. Suljicient for a salad made for 4 or 6 persons. BHUBABB JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of rhubarb allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the rind of § lemon. Mode.—Wipe the rhubarb per" fectly dry, take off the string or peel, and weigh it; put it into a preserving- pan, with sugar in the above proportion ; mince the lemon-rind very finely, add it to the other ingredients, and place the preserving-pan by tho side of the fire ; keep stirring to prevent the rhubarb from burning, and when the sugar is well dissolved, put the pan more over the fire, and let the jam boil until it is done, taking care to keep it well skimmed and stirred with a wooden or silver spoon. Pour it into pots, and cover down with oiled and egged papers. Time.—If the rhubarb is young and tender, | hour, reckoning from the time it simmers equally; old rhubarb, 1| to 1^ hour. Average cost, 5d. to 7d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—About 1 pint of sliced rhu- barb to fill a lb. pot. Seasonable trom February to May. BHUBABB AND OBAWGE JAM, to resemble Scotch Marmalade. Ingredients.—! quart of finely-cut rhu- barb, 6 oranges, 1^, lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Peel the oranges ; remove as much of the white pith as possible, divide them, and take out tho pips; slice the pulp into a preserving-pan, add the rind of half the oranges cut into thin strips, and the loaf sugar, which should be broken small. Peel the rhubarb, cut it into thin pieces, put it to the oranges, and stir altogether over a gentle fire until the jam is done. Remove all tho scum as it rises, put the preserve into pots, and, when cold, cover down. Should tho rhubarb be very old, stew it alone for ,-J hour before tho other ingredients are added. Time. — '^ to 1 hour. Average cost, from Gd. to M. per lb. pot. Seasonable from Fobruai'v to May.THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 280 Bliubnrb Pudding, Boiled RHUBARB PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—i or 5 sticks of fine rhu- barb, i lb. of moist sugar, ^ lb. of suet- crust. Mode.—Mako a suet-crust with ^ lb. of flour, and line a buttered basin with it. Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and, if old, string it—that is so say, pare off the outside skin. Cut it into inch lengths, fill the basin with it, put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of the pudding together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from 2 to 2i hours. Turn it out of the basin, and serve with a jug of cream and sifted sugar. Timg.—2 to 2| hours. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from February to May. / RHUBARB TART. / Ingredients.—nib. of puff-paste, about 6 sticks of large rhubarb, ^ Jb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Make a puff^-crust; line the edges of a deep pie-dish with it, and wash, wipe, and cut the rhubarb into pieces about 1 inch long. Should it be old and tough, string it—that is to say, pare off the outside skin. Pile the fruit high in the dish, as it shrinks very much in the cooking; put in the sugar, cover with crusty' ornament the edges, and bake the t&ri in a well-heated oven from h to ^ hour. If wanted very nice, brush it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, then sprinkle on it some sifted sugar, and put it in the oven just to set the glaze: this should be done when the tart is nearly baked. A small ((uantity of lemon-juice, and a little of the peel minced, are by many persons considered an improvement to the flavour of rhubarb tart. Time.—^ to ^ hour. -•! verage cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable from February to May. RHUBARB WINE, Ingredients.—To every 5 lbs, of rhu- barb pulp allow 1 gallon of cold spring water ; to every gallon of liquor allow 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, ^ oz. of isinglass, the rind of 1 lemon. Mode.—Gather the rhubarb about the middle of May ; wipe it with a wot cloth, and, with a mallet, bruise it in a largo wooden tub or other convenient means. When reduced to a pulp, weigh it, and to every 5 lbs. add 1 gallon of cold spring water ; let these re- main for 3 days, stirring 3 or 4 times a Rice Blancmango day; and on the fourth day, press the pulp through a hair sieve; put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of loaf sugar ; stir in the sugar until it is quite dissolved, and add the lemon-rind ; let the liquor remain, and, in 4, 5, or G days,-the fermentation will begin to sub- side, and a crust or head will be formed, which should be skimmed off, or the liquor drawn from it, when the crust begins to crack or separate. Put the wine into a cask, and if, after that, it ferments, rack it off into another cask, and in a fortnight stop it down. If the wine should have lost any of its original sweetness, add a little more loaf sugar, taking care that the cask is full. Bottle it off in February or March, and in the summer it should be fit to drink. It will improve greatly by keeping ; and, should a very briUiant colour be desired, add ti\ little currant-juice. Seasonable. Makes this about the middle of May. RICE BISCUITS, or Cakes. Ingredients.—To every ^ lb. of rice- - flour, allow { lb. of pounded lump sugar,, \ lb. of butter, 2 eggs. Mode.—Bcatt the butter to a cream, stir in the rice- flour and pounded sugar, and moisten the whole with the eggs, which should be previously well beaten. Roll out the paste, shape it with a round paste-cutter into small cakes, and bake them from 12.' to ] 8 minutes in a very slow oven. Time, - —12 to 18 minutes. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient to make about 18 cakes. Sea- • sonable at any time. RICE BLANCMANGE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of lemon- peel, essence of almonds or vanilla, or laurel-leaves. Mode. —Mix the rice to a smooth batter with about h pint of the Inilk, and the remainder put into a sauce- pan, with the sugar, butter, and which- ever of the above flavourings may be preferred ; bring the milk to the boiling- point, quickly stir.in the rice, and let it boil for about 10 minutes, or until it comes easily away from the saucepan, keeping it well stirred the whole time. Grease a mould with pure salad-oil; pour in the rice, and let it get perfectly set, when it should turn out quite easily; garnish it with jam, or pour round a compOto of any kind of fruit, just befortTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Bice Bread it is sent to table. This blancmange is better for being made the day before it is wanted, as it then has time to become firm. If laurel-leaves are used for flavour- ing, steep 3 of them in the milk, and take them out before the rice is added : about 8 drops of essence of almonds, or from 12 to 16 drops of essence of vanilla, would be required to flavour the above proportion of milk. Time.—From 10 to 15 minutes to boil the rice. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. BICE BEEAD. Ingredients.—To eveiy lb. of rice allow 4 lbs. of wheat flom-, nearly 3 tablespoon- fuls of yeast, | oz. of salt. il/ocZe.—Boil the rice in water until it is quite tender 5 pour off the water, and put the rice, be- fore it is cold, to the flour. Mix these well together with the yeast, salt, and sufficient warm water to make the whole into a smooth dough ; let it rise by the side of the fire, then form it into loaves, and bake them from 1| to 2 hours, ac- cording to their size. If the rice is boiled in milk instead of water, it makes very delicious bread or cakes. When boiled in this manner, it may be mixed with the flour without straining the liquid from it. Time.—II to 2 hours. BICE, Buttered. Ingredients.—^ lb. of rice, 1^ pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, grated nutmeg \or poimded cinnamon. Mode.—Wash and pick the rice, drain, * and put it into a saucepan with the milk; let it swell gradually, and, when tender, pour off the milk; stir in the butter, sugar, and nutmeg or cinnamon, and, vrben the butter is thoroughly melted, and the whole is quite hot, serve. After the milk is poured off, be particular that the rice does not burn: to prevent this, do not cease stirring it. Time.—About I hour to swell the rice. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seor sonalle at any time. BICE CAKE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of ground rice, J lb. of flour, i lb. of loaf sugar, 9 eggs, 20 drops of essence of lemon, or the rind of one lemon, ^ lb. of butter. Mode. —Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; whisk them both well, and Bice, Savoury Casserole of add to the latter the butter beaten to a cream. Stir in the flour, trice, and lemon (if the rind is used it must be very finely minced), and beat the mixture well; then add the whites of the eggs, beat the cake again for some time, put it into a buttered mould -OAKE-MouLD. or tin, and bake it for nearly 1 ^ hour. It may be flavoured with essence of almonds, when this is preferred. ^Tm^. —Nearly 1J hour. Average cost, Is. Qd. Season- aile at any time. BICE, SAVOUBY CASSEBOLB OP; or Bice Border, for Ba- goMs, Fricassees, &c. (An Entree.) Ingredients.—1| lb. of rice, 3 pints of weak stock or broth, 2 slices of fat ham^ 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—A casse- role of rice, when made in a mould, is not such a difficult operation as when it is moulded by the hand. It is an ele- gant and inexpensive entree, as the remains of cold fish, flesh, or fowl, may be served as oiSBEBOia OF BicB. requires great \ nicety in its preparation, the principal thing to attend to being the boiling of the rice, as, if this is not suflttciently cooked, the casse- role,- w]^en mdjilded, will have a rough appe'arahce, which would entirely spoil it. After having washed the rice in two or three waters, drain it well, and put it into a stewpan with the stock, ham, and salt; cover the pan closely, and let the rice gradually swell over^ a slqw fire, oc- casionally stirring, to prbvent itsisticking. When it is quite soft, strain it, pick out the pieces of ham, and, with the' back of a large wooden spoon, mash the rice to a perfectly smooth paste. Then well grease a mould (moulds are made pur- posely for rice borders), and tui-n it up- side down for a minute or two, to drain away the fat, should there be too much ; put some rice all round the bottom and sides of it; place a piece of soft bread in the middle, and cover it with rice; press it in equally with the spoon.288 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Kice, Sweet Casserole of and let it cool. Then dip the mould into hot water, turn tho casserole carefully on to a dish, mark whoro the lid is to be fonned on tho top, by making an incision with the point of a knife about an inch from the edge all round, and put it into a very hot oven. Brush it over with a little clarified butter, and bake about h hour, or rather longer; then carefully remove the lid, which will be formed by the incision having been made all round, and remove the bread, in small pieces, with the point of a penknife, being care- ful not to injure the casserole, FiU the centre with the ragotlt or fricassee, which should be made thick; put on the cover, glaze it, place it in the oven to set the glaze, and serve as hot as possible. The casserole should not be emptied too much, as it is liable to crack from the weight of whatever is put in ; and, in baking it, let the oven be very hot, or the casserole wiU probably break. Time. —About f hour to sweU the rice. Suffi- cient for 2 moderate - sized casseroles. Seasonable at any time, mCE, SWEET CASSEBOLE OP (an Entremets). Ingredients.—1^ lb. of rice, 3 pints of milk, sugar to taste, flavouring of bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.-—This is made in precisely the same manner as a savoury casserole, only substituting the milk and sugar for the stock and salt. Put the milk into a stewpau, with sufficient essence of bitter almonds to flavour it well; then add the rice, which should be washed, picked, and drained, and let it swell gradually in the milk over a slow fire. When it is tender, stir in the sugar, butter, and yilks of eggs; butter a mould, press in the rice, and proceed in exactly the same manner as in preceding recipe. When tho casserole is ready, tiU it with a coni- pOte of any fruit that may be preferred, or with melted apricot-jam, and serve. Time.—From ^ to 1 hour to swell the rice, ^ to ^ hour to bake tho casserole. Average cost, exclusive of tho compOte or jam, is. 9d. Sufficient for 2 casseroles. Seasonable at anytime, BiOE CROQUETTES. hifjrcdients.—l lb. of rice, 1 quart of milk', 6 oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring of vanilla, lemou-pccl, or bilS, ^r almonds, Rice-Milk ■ p-r- egg and bread-crumbs, hot lard. Mode ■■: —Put the rice, milk, and sugar int' a saucepan, and let tho former gradually swell over a gentle fire until all the mili is dried up ; and just before tho rico i: done, stir in a few drops of essence o i :.z. any of the above flavourings. Let th( f [:i rice get cold ; then form it into smaL. c- round balls, dip them into yolk of egg^; at sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, ana in fry them in boiling lard for about 1( minutes, turning them about, that thei EI( may get equally browned. Drain tl.' ' greasy moisture froni them, by placiL them on a cloth in front of the fire for t 1. minute or two ; pile them on a wliitt t. d'oyle}', and send them quickly to tablo f A small piece of jam is sometimes intro f ' duced int« the middle of each croquettc which adds very much to the flavour £■ this favourite dish. Tiine.—From \ to hour to swell the rice ; about 10 minut c to fry the croquettes. Average, cost, \Qv Sufficient to make 7 or 8 croquettes, Seasonable at any time. BICE FRITTERS, -j! Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart ol! milk, 3 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of fresh but- ■ ter, 6 oz. of orange marmalade, 4 eggs,-. Mode.—Swell the rice in the milk, witb i i: the sugar and butter, over a slow fire; ~ until it is perfectly tender, which will b£ ; u in about | hour. When the rice is done,. strain away the milk, should there be any left, and mis with it the marmalaii and well-beaten eggs; stir the whole . over the fire until the eggs are set; then i| spread the mixture on a dish to tho thicknesc of about h inch, or rath<: thicker. When it is'perfectly cold, ci ■ it into long strips, dip them in a batti: the same as for apple fritters, and fry . them a nice brown. Dish them on a» white d'oylej', strew sifted sugar over, and serve quickly. Time.—About J hoi; to swell the rice ; from 7 to 10 minuU - to fry the fritters. Average cost. Is. 6» Sufficient to make 7 or 8 fritters. Season- able at any time. BICE-MILK. Ingredients.—Z tablespoonfuls of rice, 1 quart of milk, sugar to taste; whcu liked, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Well wash the rice, put it into a pan with tho milk, and simmer until tho rice is tender, stirring it i ^ - time to time to prevent tho milk froiDHUE DlCTlONAHY Ol^ COOKEUY. 289 Eice Pudding, Baked mrning; sweeten it, add a little grated lutraeg, aud serve. This dish is also 'ery suitable and wholesome for chil- Iren ; it may be flavoured with a little emon-peel, and a little finely-minccd uct may be boiled with it, which renders t more strengthening and more whole- ome. Tapioca, semolina, vermicelli, nd macaroni, may all be dressed in the ame manner. Time.—From ^ to 1 hour. Reasonable at any time. nCE PUDDIWG, Baked. Ingredients.—1 small teacupful of rice, eggs, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of fresh but- er, 2 oz. of beef man-ow, 5 lb. of cur- ants, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, nutmeg, lb. of sugar, the rind of ^ lemon. \fode.—Put the lemon-rind and milk iito a stewpan, and let it infuse till the Qilk is well flavoured with the lemon ; a the mean time, boil the rice until ender in water, with a very small quan- ity of salt, and, when done, lot it be horoughly drained. Beat the eggs, tir to them the milk, which should e strained, the butter, marrow, cur- ants, and remaining ingredients ; add he rice, and mix all well together. Line he edges of the dish with puff-paste, ut in the pudding, and bake for about hour in a slow oven. Slices of candied- eel may be added at pleasure, or Sultana lisins may be substituted for the cur- mts. Tivie.—5 hour. Average cost, ?. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. easonahle for a winter pudding, when •esh fruits are not obtainable. IICE PUDDING-, Baked (Plain and Economical; a nice Pudding for Children). Ingredients.—1 teacupful of rice, 2 iblespoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 quart of lilk, h oz. of butter or two small table- )Oonfuls of chopped suet, h teaspoonful !' grated nutmeg, il/orfe.—Wash the ce, put it into a pic-dish with the sugar, our in the milk, and stir these ingre- ients well together; then add the lUtcr cut up into varv small pieces, or, istcad of this, the above proportion of iiely-minccd suet; gi-ate a little nutmeg lor the top, and bake the pudding, in a oderate oven, from 1 i to 2 hours. As le rice is not previously cooked, care nst bo taken that the pudding be very owly baked, to give plenty of time for le rice to swell, aud for it to. bo very Rice Pudding, Boiled thoroughly done. Time.—11 to 2 hours. Average cost, Id. Siifficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. ^ EICE PUDDING, Plain Boiled. Ingredients.—h lb. of rice. Mode- Wash the rice, tie it in a pudding-cloth, allowing room for the rice to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water; boil it gently for two hours, and if, after a time, the cloth seems tied too loosely, take the rice up aud tighten the cloth. Serve with sweet melted butter, or cold butter and sugar, or stewed fruit, jam, or marmalade, any of which accompani- ments are suitable for plain boiled rice. Time.—2 hours after the water boils. Average cost, 2d. Sufficient ior 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. EICE PUDDING, BoUed. Ingredients.—^ lb. of rice, 1^ pint of new milk, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, ^ salt- spoonful of salt, 4 large tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Stew the rice very gently in the above proportion of new milk, and, when it is tendei', pour it into a basin ; stir in the butter, and let it stand to cool; then beat the eggs, add these to the rice with the sugar, salt, and any flavouring that may be approved, such as nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, essence of bitter-almonds, or vanilla. When all is well stirred, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 1^ hour. Time.— labour. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable at any time. EICE PUDDING, Boiled (with Dried or Fresh. Fruit; a nice Dish for the Nursery). Ingredients.—J lb. of rice, 1 pint of any kind of fresn fruit that may be pre- ferred, or i lb of raisins or currants. Mode.—Wash the rice, tie it in a cloth, allowing room for it to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water; let it boil for an hour, then take it up, untie the cloth, stir in the fruit, and tie it up again tolerably tight, and put it into the water for the remainder of the time. Boil for another hour, or rather longer, and serve with sweet sauce if made with dried fruit, and with plain sifted sugar if made with 10THE DICTIONAHY OF COOKEEY. 290 llice Pudding, French fi-esh fruit. Time.—1 hour to boil tho I'ico without the fruit; 1 hour, or longer, afterwards. Average cost, Qd. Sufficie7it for 6 or 7 children, Seasonalle at any time. Ifote.—This pudding is very good made with apples; they should be pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. BICE PUDDING, French, or Ga- teau de Biz. Ingredients,—To every ^ lb. of rice allow 1 quart of milk, the rind of 1 lemon, h teaspoonful of salt, sugar to taste, 4 oz. of butter, 6 eggs, bread crumbs. Mode.—Put the milk into a stewpan with the lemon-rind, and let it infuse for ^ hour, or until the former is well flavoured ; then take out the peel, have ready the rice washed, picked, and drained ; put it into the mUk, and let it gradually swell over a very slow fire. Stir in the butter, salt, and sugar, and, when properly sweetened, add the yolks of the eggs, and then the whites, both of which should be well beaten, and added separately to the rico. Butter a mould, strew in some fine bread crumbs, and let them be spread equally over it; then carefully pour in the rice, and bake the pudding in a slow oven for 1 hour. Turn it out of the mould, and garnish the dish with preserved cherries, or any bright- coloured jelly or jam. This pudding would ba exceedingly nice flavoured with essence of vanilla. Tiine.—J to 1 hour for the rice to swell ; to be baked 1 hour in a slow oven. Average cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. EICE PUDDING, Baked or Boiled Ground. Ingredients.—2 pints of milk, 6 table- ^■poonfuls of ground rice, sugar to taste, d eggs, flavouring of lemon-rind, nut- meg, bitter-almonds or bay-leaf. Mode. —Put 1 ^ pint of the milk into a stewpan with any of the above flavourings, and bring it to tho boiling point, and, with the other h pint of milk, mix the ground rice to a smooth batter ; strain tho boil- ing milk to this, and stir over tho fire until the mixture is tolerably thick; then pour it into a basin, leave it un- covered, and when nearly or quite cold sweeten it to taste, and add the eggs, which should be previously well beaten, with a little salt. Put the pudding into Bico Puddings, Miniature a well-buttered basin, tie it down witl cloth, plunge it into boiling water, a boil for 1^ hour. For a baked puddir. proceed m precisely the same manni only using half the above proportion ground rico, with the same quantity all the other ingredients : an hour w bake the pudding in a moderate ove Stewed fruit, or preserves, or marmalac may bo served with either tho boiled baked pudding, and will be found i improvement. Tirne.—1^ hour to bo 1 hour to bake. Average cost, 10 Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons?. Seasonal at any time. BICE PUDDING, Iced, Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart milk, ^ lb. of sugar, the yolks of 6 egg 1 small teaspoonful of essence of vanill Mode.—Put the rice into a stewpan, wit the milk and sugar, and let these simm' over a gentle fire until the rice is sir ciently soft to break up into a smo' mass, and should the milk dry away t much, a little more may be added. S the rice occasionally, to prevent its bur ing, then beat it to a smooth mixture add the j'olks of the eggs, which shoul be well whisked, and the vaniUa (shoul this flavouring not be liked, essence < bitter almonds may be substituted f it); put this rice custard into the free ing-pot, and proceed as directed in 1: recipe for Iced Pudding. When wan:' for table, turn tho pudding out of t mould, and pour over the top and rou . it a compOte of oranges, or any oth£ liiilt that may be preferred, taking car that the fl.avouring in the pudding bar monizes well with the fruit that i served with it. Time.—.J hour to frci the mixture. Average cost, Is. 6rf.; c elusive of the compOte, Is. id. Seaso able.—Served all the year roimd. BICE PUDDINGS, Miniature. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, li pint milk, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, sul' to taste, flavouring of lemon-peel, bit i almonds, or vanilla; a few strips of cr died peel. Mode.—Let the rico > in 1 pint of the milk over a sl^ putting with it a strip of icmuii , stir to it the butter and the other h ) ■ of milk, and let the mixture cool. Tli add the well-beaten eggs, and a few iln i of essence of almonds or essence of ^ nilla, whichever may bo preferred ; bi.THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 291 nice Snowballs ter well some small cups or moulds, line them with a few pieces of candied peel sliced very thin, fill them three parts full, and bake for about 40 minutes ; turn them out of the cups on to a white d'oy- ley, and serve with sweet sauce. The flavouring and candied peel might be omitted, and stewed fruit or preserve served instead, with these puddings. Time.—40 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 puddings. Seasonable at any time. BICE SNOWBALLS (A Pretty Dish, for Juvenile Suppers). Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quai't of milk, flavouring of essence of almonds, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard. Mode. —Boil the rice in the milk, with sugar and a flavouring of essence of almonds, until the former is tender, adding, if ne- cessary, a Uttle more milk, should it dry iway too much. When the rice is quite soft, put it into teacups, or small round jars, and let it remain until cold; then ;uni the rice out on a deep glass dish, Dour over a custard, and on the top of ;ach ball place a small piece of bright- coloured preserve or jelly. Lemon-peel jr vanilla may be boiled with the rice nstead of the essence of almonds, when ;ither of these is preferred ; but the favouring of the custard must corre- spond with that of the rice. Time.— /i-bout f hour to swell the rice in the nilk. Average cost, with the custard, 1*. Qd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. MCE SOUFFLE. Ingredients. — 3 tabkspoonfuls of jround rice, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, jounded sugar to taste, flavouring of emon-rind, vanilla, coffee, chocolate, or inything that may be preferred, a piece )f butter the size of a walnut. Mode.— Hix the ground rice with 6 tablespoon- uls of the milk quite smoothly, and put t into a saucepan with the remainder of ;ho milk and butter, and keep stirring it )ver the fire for about ^ hour, or until ;h6 mixture thickens. Separate the rolks from the whites of the eggs, beat ;he former in a basin, and stir to them ;he rice and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the soufild ; but add this latter ngredient as sparingly as possiblp, as ihe less sugar there is used the lighter fill b« the Bouffl^. Now whisk the Rice for Curries, &e., Boiled whites of the eggs to a stiff froth or snow; mix them with the other prepara- tion, and pour the whole into a souffle- dish, and put it instantly into the oven; bake it about ^ hour in a moderate oven, take it out, hold a salamander or hot shovel over the top, sprinkle sifted sugar over it, and send the souffle to table in the dish it was baked in, either with a napkin pinned round, or inclosed in a more ornamental dish. The excellence of this fashionable dish entirely depends on the proper whisking of the whites of the eggs, the manner of baking, and the expedition with which it is sent to table. Souffles should be served instantly from the oven, or they will sink, and be nothing more than an ordinary pudding. Time.—About | hour. Average cost. Is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons, Seasonaile at any time. BICE SOUP. Ingredients.—4 oz. of Patna rice, salt, cayenne, and mace, 2 quarts of white stock. Mode.—Throw the rice into boiling water, and let it boil until tender; then pour it into a sieve, and allow it to drain well. Now add it to the stock boiling, and allow it to simmer a few minutes; season to taste. Serve quickly. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost. Is. Sd. per quart, Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. RICE SOUP. Ingredients.—6 oz, of rice, the yolks of 4 eggs, ^ a pint of cream, rather more than two quarts of stock. Mode. —Boil the rice in the stock, and rub half of it through a tammy ; put the stock in the stewpan, add all the rice, and simmer gently for 5 minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs, mix them with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve; take the soup off the fire, add the eggs and- cream, stirring frequently. Heat it gradually, stirring all the time; but do not let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Is. id. per quart. Suffi' dent for 8 persons. Seasonable all {he yeai'. BICE for Curries, &c,, Boiled. Ingredients.—| lb, of rice, water. Salt, Mode.—Pick, wash, and soak the rice in plenty of cold water ; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water.^ drop the noe292 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Rice, to Boil, for Curries into it, and keep it boiling qiiickly, with the lid uncovered, until it is tender, but not soft. Take it up, drain it, and put it on a dish before the fire to dry ; do not handle it much with a spoon, but shake it about a little with two forks, that it may all be equally dried, and Btrew over it a little salt. It is now ready to serve, and may be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or be laid round the dish as a border, with a curry or fricassee in the centre. Some cooks Bmooth the rice with the back of a epoon, and then brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and set it in the oven to colour; but the rice, well boiled, white, dry, and with every grain distinct, is by far the more preferable mode of dressing it. During the process of boiling, the rice should be attentively watched, that it be not overdone, as, if this is the case, it will have a mashed and soft api^ear- ance. Time.—15 to 25 minutes, accord- ing to the quality of the rice. Average cost, 3d, Sufficient for a large dish of curry. Seasonable at any time. EICE, To Boil, for Curries, &c. (Soyer's Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of the best Caro- lina rice, 2 quarts of water, 1^ oz. of butter, a little salt. Mode.—Wash the rice well in two waters; make 2 quarts of water boiling, and throw the rice into it; boU it until three-parts done, then drain it on a sieve. Butter the bottom and sides of a stewpan, put in the rice, place the lid on tightly, and set it by the side of the fire, until the rice is perfectly tender, occasionally shaking the pan to prevent its sticking. Prepared thus, every grain should be separate and white. Either dish it separately, or place it round the curry as a border. Time.—15 to 25 minutes. Average cost, 7d. Suffi- cient for 2 moderate-sized curries. Sea- toiuible at any time. HOASTIWa, Memoranda in. The management of the fire is a point of primary importance in roasting. A radiant fire thi-oughout the operation is absolutely necessary to insure a good *'e6ult. When the article to be dressed 18 thin and delicate, the fire may be small; but when the joint is large the fire must fill tho grate. Meat must never be put down before a hollow or exhausted ^re, wjiich may soon want recruiting; Rolls, Hot on tho other hand, if the heat of the fir become too fierce, the meat must b removed to a considerable distance ti it has somewhat abated. Some cook always fail in roasting, though they sue ceed in nearly everything else. 1 French writer on the culinary art say that anybody can learn how to cook but one must be bom a roaster. Accor ding to Liebig, beef or mutton canno bo said to ba sufficiently roasted, unti it has acquired throughout the whol mass a temperature of 158°. But poultr , may be well cooked when the inner part { have attained a temperature of 130° tr. 110°. This depends on the greate^ amount of blood which beef and muttoi contain, the colouring matter of blooc not being coagulable under 158°. ROLLS, Excellent. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flou:: allow 1 oz. of butter, ^ pint of milk-; a large teaspoonful of yeast, a little salt: Mode.—Warm tho butter in the milk-: add to it the yeast and salt, and mLu these ingredients well together. Put thi flour into a pan, stir in the above ingre BOLLS. dients, and let the dough rise, coverec in a warm place. Knead it well, mak« * it into rolls, let them rise again for a few' minutes, and bake in a quick oven.". Richer rolls may be made by adding! or 2 eggs and a larger proportion o butter, and their appearance improve by brushing the tops over with yolk c egg or a little milk. Time.—1 lb. r flour, divided into 6 rolls, from 15 to - minutes. ROLLS, Hot. This dish, although very unwholesome and indigestible, is nevertheless great favourite, and eaten by man] persons. As soon as tho rolls come from tho baker's, they should be put into the oven, which, in the early part of th; morning, is sure not to be very hot; an ; the rolls must not be buttered until wanted. When they are quite l'o<. divide them lengthwise into three some thin flakes of good butter be . 'ti'THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 293 Bolls, Fluted the slices, press the rolls together, and put them in the ovoa for a minute or two, but not longer, or the butter would oil; take them out of the oven, spread the butter equally over, divide the rolls in half, and put them on to a very hot clean dish, and send them instantly to table. BOLLS, Fluted. Ingredients.—PulF-pastei, the white of an egg, sifted sugar, jelly or preserve. Mode.—Make some good pufiF-paste (trimmings answer very well for little dishes of this sort); roll it out to the thickness of^ inch, and with a round fluted paste-cutter stamp out as many round pieces as may be required; brush over the upper side with the white of an egg; roll up the pieces, pressing the paste lightly together where it joins ; place the rolls on a baking-sheet, and bake for about ^ hour. A few minutes before they are done, brush them over with the white of an egg; strew over sifted sugar, put them back in the oven; and when the icing is firm and of a pale brown colour, they are done. Place a strip of jelly or preserve across each roll, dish them high on a napkin, and sei-ve cold. Time.—| hour before being iced; 5 to 10 minutes after. Average cost, Is. Zd. Sufficient.—^ lb. of puif-paste for 2 dishes. Seasonable at any time. EOUX, Brown, a French Thick- ening for Gravies and Sauces. Ingredients.—6 oz. of butter, 9 oz. of flour. Mode.—Melt the butter in a stew- pan over a slow fire, and dredge in, very gradually, the flour ; stir it till of alight- brown colour—to obtain this do it very slowly, otherwise the flour will burn and impart a bitter taste to the sauce it is mixed with. Pour it in a jar, and keep it for use : it will remain good sometime. Time.—About ^ hour. Average cost, 7d. BOITX, White, for thickening White Sauces. Allow the same proportions of butter and flour as in the preceding recipe, and proceed in the same manner as for brown roux, but do not keep it on the fire too long, and take care not to let it colour. This is used for thickening white sauce. Pour it into a jar to use when wanted. Time,—ihour. Average cost,!d. Bump-steak and Kidney Pudding Sufficient.—A dessertspoonful wiU thicken a pint of gravy. Note.—Besides the above, sauces may- be thickened with potato flour, ground rice, baked flour, arrowroot, &c.: the latter will bo found far preferable to the ordinary flour for white sauces. A slice of bread, toasted and added to gravies, answers the two ptirposes of thickening and colouring them. BUMP-STEAK, Fried. Ingredients.—Steaks, butter or clarified dripping.—Mode.—Although broiling is a far superior method of cooking steaks to frying them, yet, when the cook is not very expert, the latter mode may be adopted; and, when properly done, the dish may really look very inviting, and the flavour be good. The steaks should be cut rather thinner than for broiling, and with a small quantity of fat to each. Put some butter or clarified dripping into a frying-pan ; let it get quite hot, then lay in the steaks. Turn them fi-e- quently until done, which will be in about 8 minutes, or rather more, should the steaks be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, in which put a small piece of butter and a tablespoonf ul of ketchup, and season with pepper and salt. They should be se^t to table quickly, as when cold the steaks are entirely spoiled. Time.—8 minutes for a medium-sized steak, rather longer for a very thick one. Average cost, Is. per lb. Seasonable all the year, but not good in summer, as the meat cannot hang to get tendei-. Note.—Where much gi'a^'y is liked, make it in the following manner:—As soon as the steaks are done, dish them, pour a little boiUng water into the frying- pan, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small piece of butter, and a tablespoon- ful of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ket- chup. Hold the pan over the fire for a minute or two, just let the gravy simmei', then pour on the steak, and serve. BUMP-STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of ramp-steak, 2 kidneys, seasoning to taste of salt and black pepper, suet crust made with milk {see Pastry), in the proportion of 6 oz. of suet to each 1 lb. of flour. J/ocZe.—Pro- cure some tender nimp-steak (that which has been hung a little time), and divide it into pieces about an inch square, and294 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Eump-steak and Oyster Sauce cut oach kidney into 8 pieces. Line the dish with crust made with suet and flour in the abovo proportion, leaving a small piece of crust to overlap the edge. Then cover the bottom with a portion of the steak and a few pieces of kidney ; season with salt and pepper (some add a little flour to thicken the gravy, but it is not necessary), and then add another layer of steak, kidney, and seasoning. Proceed in this manner till the dish is full, when pour in sufficient water to come within 2 inches of the top of the basin. Moisten the edges of the crust, cover the pudding over, press the two crusts together, that the gravy may not escape, and turn up the overhanging paste. Wring out a cloth in hot water, flour it, and tie up the pudding ; put it into boiling water, and let it boil for at least 4 hours. If the water diminishes, always replenish with some hot in a jug, as the pudding should be kept covered all the time, and not allowed to stop boiling. When the cloth is removed, cut out a round piece in the top of the crust, to prevent the pudding bursting, and send it to table in the basin, either in an ornamental dish, or with a napkin pinned round it. Serve quickly. Time.—For a pudding with 2 lbs. of steak and 2 kidneys allow 4 hours. Average, cost, 2s. %d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. Note.—Rump-steak pudding may bo very much enriched by adding a few oysters or mushrooms. In Sussex, the inhabit3,nts are noted for their savoury puddiiigs, which are usually made in the manner just described. It differs from the general way of making them, as the meat is cut up into very small pieces and the basin is differently shaped, re- sembling a very large saucer: on trial, this pudding will be found far nicer, and more full of gravy, than when laid in large pieces in the dish. EUMP-STEAK AND OYSTEB SAUCE. IncjrecUenis.—Z dozen oyslws, ingre- dients for oyster sauce, 2 lb. of rump- steak, seasoning to taste of popper and salt. Mode.—Make the oyster sauce, and when that is ready, put it by the side of the fire, but do not let it keep boiling. Have the steaks cut of an equal thickness, broil them over a I; Eump-steak or Beef-Btoak, Broilec: very clear fire, turning them often, tha' the gravy may not escape. In about { minutes they will be done, when puv them on a very hot dish ; smother will- the oyster sauce, and the remainder senc to table in a tureen. Servo quickly Time.—About8 to 10 minutes, accordinj. to the thickness of the steak. A veragt cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 personam Seasonable from September to April. EUMP-STEAK or BEEF." STEAK, Broiled. Ingredients,—Steaks, apiece of buttei: the size of a walnut, salt to taste, ] tablespoon ful of good mushroom ket-t- chup or Harvey's sauce. Mode.—Atuift the success of a good broil so mucbifr depends on the state of the fire, see thai it is bright and clear, and perfectly fref from smoke, and do not add any fresb fuel just before you require to use the gridiron. Sprinkle a little salt over the fire, put on the gridiron for a few mi- nutes, to get thoroughly hot through; rub it with a piece of fresh suet, to pre*! vent the meat from sticking, and lay on* t the steaks, which should be cut of ar equal thickness, about # of an inch, c: rather thinner, and level them by beating them as Utile as possible with a rolling pin. Turn them frequently with steak- tongs (if these are not at hand, stick & \ fork in the edge of the fat, that no g'''a^H| escapes), and in from 8 to 10 miuuMW they will be done. Have ready a vei hot dish, into which put the ketchu}, and, when liked, a little minced shalot; ^: dish up the steaks, rub them over with butter, and season with pepper and sal: The exact time for broiling steaks mu- be determined by taste, whether thi. are liked underdone or well done ; more than from 1 to 10 minutes for a steak \ inch in thickness, we think, would . spoil and diy up the juices of the meat, ' Great expedition is necessarj' in sendir" broiled steaks to table ; and, to hai them in perfection, they should not be cooked till everj-thing else prepared for dinner has been dished up, as their cn cellence entirely depends on their bein served very hot. Garnish with scraped horseradish, or slices of cucn- hrr. Oyster, tomato, onion, and man} sauces, are frequent accompanimc rump-steak, but true lovers of Hi English dish generally reject all additioi but pepper and salt. iTune.—8 to ]m THE DICTIONAE? OF COOKSrY. i«rTi - -1 I Rump-steak Pie minutes. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient.—A.\\ov7 I lb. to each person ; if the party consist entirely of gentle- man, 'i lb. will not be too much. _ Sea- sonable all the year, but not good in the height of summer, as the meat cannot hang long enough to be tender. RUMP-STEAK PIE. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of rump-steak, seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, and black pepper, crust, water, the yolk of an egg. il/oc/e.—Have the steaks cut from a rump that has hung a few days, that thoy may be tender, and be parti- cular that every portion is perfectly sweet. Cut the steaks into pieces about 3 inches long and 2 wide, allowing a imall piece of fat to each piece of lean, and arrange the meat in layers in a pie- dish. Between each layer sprinkle a seasoning of salt, pepper, and, when liked, a few grains of cayenne. Fill the dish sufficiently with meat to support the crust, and to give it a nice raised appeai-ance when baked, and not to look fiat and hollow. Pour in suffi- cient water to half fill the dish, and border it with paste {see Pastry); brush it over with a little watei-, and put on the cover; slightly press down the edges with the thumb, and trim off close to the dish. Ornament the pie with leaves, or pieces of paste cut in any shape that fancj"^ may direct, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg ; make a hole in the top of the crust, and bake in a hot oven for about lA hour. I'iiiie.— In a hot oven, 1.^ hour. Averarje cost, for this size, 3s. 6cl. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. RTJMP-STEAK PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—6 oz. of flonr, 2 eggs, not quite 1 pint of milk, salt to taste, 1^ lb. of rump-steaks, 1 kidney, pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the steaks into nice square pieces, with a small quantity of fat, and the kidney divide into small pieces. Make a batter of flour, eggs, and milk in the above proportion ; lay a little of it at the bottom of a pie-dish ; then put in the steaks and kidney, which should be well seasoned with popper and salt, and pour over the remainder of the batter, and bake for 1^ hour in a hrisk but not fierce ovea.—Time,—1^ hour. Riimp-steak with Fried Potatoes Average cost, 2s. Sxcfficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. RUMP-STEAK, Rolled, Boasted, and Stuffed. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of rump-steak, forcemeat, pepper and salt to taste, clarified butter. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thick from a well-hung rump of beef, and sprinklo over them a seasoning of pepper and salt. Make a forcemeat; spread it over half of the steak; roll it up, bind and skewer it firmly, that the forcemeat may not escape, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about 1^ hour, or ra- ther longer, should the roll be very large and thick. Keep it constantly basted with butter, and serve with brown gravy, some of which must be poured round the steak, and the remainder sent to table in a tureen. Time.—1| hour. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable aU the year, but best in winter. RUMP-STEAK WITH FRIED POTATOES, or BIFTEK AUX POMMES-DE-TERRE (&. la Mode Frangaise). Ingredients.—2 lb. of steak, 8 pota- toes, \ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced herbs. Mode.—Put the butter into a frying or saule pan, set it over the fire, and let it get very hot; peel, and cut the potatoes into long thin slices; put them into the hot butter, and fry them till of a nice brown colour. Now broil the steaks over a bright clear fire, turning them fre; quently, that every part may be equally done: as they should not be thick, 6 minutes will broil them. Put the herbs and seasoning in the butter the potatoes were fried in, pour it under the steak, and place the fried potatoes round, as a garnish. To have this dish in perfection, a portion of the fillet of the sirloin should be used, as the meat is generally so much more tender than that of the rump, and the steaks should be cut about ^ of an inch in thickness. Time.—5 minutes to broil the steaks, and about the same time to fry the potatoes. Average cost. Is, per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Season- able all the year ; but not so good in warm weather, as the meat cannot hanjf io get tenderTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 296 Hump- or Beef-steak, Stewed KUMP- or BEEF-STEAK, Stewed (an Entr6o). Ingredients.—About 2 lbs. of beef or rump steak, 3 onions, 2 turnips, 3 car- rots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, \ pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, h do. of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 tablespoon- ful of ilour. Mode.—Have the steaks cut tolerably thick and rather lean; divide them into convenient-sized pieces, nnd fry them in the butter a nice brtxsvn on both sides. Cleanso and pare the vegetables, cut the onions and carrots into thin slices, and the turnips into dice, and fry these in the same fat that the steaks were done in. Put all into a saucepan, add ^ pint of water, or rather more should it be necessary, and simmer very gently for 2.^ or 3 hours; when nearly done, skim well, add salt, pepper, and ketchup in the above proportions, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour mixed with 2 of cold water. Let it boil up for a minute or two after the thickening is added, and serve. When a vegetable-scoop is at hand, use it to cut the vegetables in fanciful shapes; and tomato, Harvey's sauce, or walnut- liquor may be used to flavour the gravy. It is less rich if stewed the previous day, so that the fat may be taken off when cold ; vfhen wanted for table, it will merely require warming through. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. BUSKS, to make (Siiffolk Becipe). Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 2 oz. of butter, ^ pint of milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon- ful of yeast. Mode.—Put the milk and butter into a saucepan, and keep shaking it round until the latter is melted. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, mix theso well together, aud beat the eggs. Stir them with the yeast to the milk and butter, and with this liquid work the flour into a smooth dough. Cover a cloth over the basin, and leave the dough to rise by the side of the firo ; then knead it, and di- vide it into 12 pieces ; place them in a brisk oven, and bake for about 20 mi- nutes. Tttk" +Jio rusks out, break them Sago Pudding BUSES. in half, and then set them in the oven to get crisp on the other side. When. cold, they should bo put into tin ca-.- nisters to keep them dry; and if in- tended for tho cheese course, the sifted sugar should bo omitted. Time.—20 mi- nutes to bake tho rusks ; 5 minutes to render them crisp after being divided. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient to make 2. dozen rusks. Seasonable at any time. BUSKS, Italian. A stale Savoy or lemon cake may be: converted into very good rusks in the following manner. Cut the cake into slices, divide each slice in two ; put them, on a baking-sheet, in a slow oven, and. when they are of a nice brown and quite;- hard, they are done. They should be«l k kept in a closed tin canister in a dryj place, to preserve their crispness. SAG-E-AND-ONION STUFFING;, for Geese, Ducks, and Pork. Ingredients.—4 large onions, 10 sage-' leaves, ^ lb. of bread crumbs, 1^ oz. off butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. • Mode.—Peel the onions, put them into boiling water, let them simmer for 5 mi- nutes or rather longer, and just before they are taken out, put in the sage- leaves for a minute or two to take o:; their rawness. Chop both these very fine, add the bread, seasoning, and butter, and work the whole together with the yolk of an egg, when the stuf- fing will be ready for use. It should b rather highly seasoned, and tho sage- leaves should be very finely chopped. Many cooks do not parboil the onions in the manner just stated, but mcrcV.- uso them raw. Tho stuffing then, l o.vcvei . is not nearly so mild, an 1. t ) mar. tastes, its strong flavour would be very objectionable. When made for goose, .| a portion of tho liver of the bird, sim- mered for a few minutes and very finelv minced, is frequently added to this stut- fing ; and whero economy is studied, th**) egg may bo dispensed with. Time.— Rather more than 5 minutes to simmer tho onions. A rcrage cost, for this r/r ;i- tity, 4d. Sufficient for 1 goose, or a ; r of ducks. SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients.—\h pint of milk, S t^^bJa*- spoonfuls of sago', tho rind of k lemon,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 297 Sago Sauce for Sweet Puddings 3 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, 1^ oz. of butter, gi'ated nutmeg, puif-paste. Mode.— Put the milk and lemon-rind into a stew- pan, place it by the side of the fire, and let it remain until the milk is well fla- voured with the lemon ; then strain it, mix with it the sago and sugar, and simmer gently for about 15 minutes. Let the mixture cool a little, and stir to it the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the butter. Line the edges of a pie- dish with puff-paste, pour in the pud- ding, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake from f to 1 hour. Time.—J to 1 hour, or longer if the oven is very slow. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. A^ote.—The above pudding may be boiled instead of baked; but then allow 2 extra tablespoonfuls of sago, and boil the pudding in a buttered basin from 1^ to 1^ hour, SAGO SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of sago, i pint of water, ^ pint of port or sherry, the rind and juice of 1 small lemon, sugar to taste ; when the flavour is liked, a little pounded cinnamon. Mode.— Wash the sago in two or three waters; then put it into a saucepan, with the water and lemon-peel; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for 10 minutes, then t ake out the lemon-peel,add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be particular to strain the lemon-juice before adding it to the sauce. This, on trial, will be found a delicious accom- paniment to various boiled puddings, such as those made of bread, raisins, rice, &c. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, 9cZ, Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. SAGO SOUP. Ingredients.—5 oz. of sago, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Wash the sago in boiling water, add it, by degrees, to the boiling stock, and simmer till the sago is entirely dissolved, and forms a sort of jolly. Time.—Nearly an hour. Average cost, IM. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all tho year. iVo^e.—The yolks of 2 eggs, beaten up with a little cream, previously boiled, and added at tho moment of serving, much Improves this soup. SALAD, Boiled. Ingredients.—2 heads of celery, 1 pint of Irench beans, lettuce, and ondivo. Salad Dressing. Mode.—Boil the celery and beans se- parately until tender, and cut the celery into pieces about 2 inches long. Put these into a salad-bowl or dish pour over either of the salad dressings, and garnish the dish with a little lettuce finely chopped, blanched endive, or a few tufts of boiled cauliflower. This composition, if less agreeable than vegetables in their raw state, is morewholesome ; for salads, however they may be compounded, when eaten uncooked, prove to some people indigestible. Tarragon, chervil, burnet, and boiled onion, may be added to the above salad with advantage, as also slices of cold meat, poultry, or fish. Seasonable.—From July to October. SALAD DRESSmG (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 table- spoonfuls of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the mixed mustard into a salad-bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredients well toge- ther. Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added very gradually/, or the sauce will ciu'dle. Put in the seasoning, when the mixture will be ready for use. If this dressing is properly made, it will have a soft creamy appearance, and will be found very delicious with crab, or cold fried fish (the latter cut into dice), as well as with salads. In mixing salad dressings, the ingredients cannot be added" too gradualli/, or stirred too much. Average cost, for this quantity, Bd. Sufficient for a small salad. This recipe can be confidently recom- mended by the editress, to whom it was given by an intimate friend noted for her salads. SALAD DBESSING (Excellent). Ingredients.—eggs, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, \ teasjioonful of whito pepper, half that quantity of cayenne, salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, vinegar. il/ocZe.—Boil tho eggs until hard, which will be in about ^ hour or 20 minutes; put them into cold water, tako off tho shells, and pound the yolks in a mortar to a smooth paste. Tlicn add all thp other ingredients, except tho vinegar, and filir Ihem well until298 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Salad Dressing the whole are thoroughly incorporated one with the other. Pour in sufficient vinegar to make it of the consistency of cream, taking care to add but little at a time. The mixture will then be ready for iiso. Averarje cost, for this quantity, Id. Sufficient for a moderate- sized salud. Note.—The whites of the eggs, Skit into rings, will serve very well as a gai-nishing to the salad. SALAD DHESSmG (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of salad oil, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, teaspoonful of salt, h teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream. Mode.— Prepare and mix the ingredients by the preceding recipe, and be very particular that the whole is well stirred. Note.—In making salads, the vege- tables, &c., should never be added to the sauce very long before they are wanted for table; the dressing, however, may always be prepared some hours before required. Where salads are much in request, it is a good plan to bottle off • sufficient dressing for a few days' con- sumption, as, thereby, much time and trouble are saved. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good for 4 or 5 days. Poetic Recipe for Salad.—The He v. Sydney Smith's recipe. " Two large potatoes, pass'd through kitchen sieve. Smoothness and softness to the salad give: Of mordent mustard add a single spoon. Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault. To add a double quantity of salt: Pour times the spoon with oil of Lncca crown. And twice with vinegar procured from ' town;' True flavour needs it, and your poet begs, The pounded yellow of two well-boii'd egga. Let onion's atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavour'd compound tosa A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. Oh 1 great and glorious, and, herbaceous treat, 'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he'd turn his weai-y soul. And plunge his fingers in the salad-bowl," SALAD, French. Ingredients.—Lettuces; alittlechoppod burnet. To every 4 tablespoonfuls of oil allow 1 i of cither Tarragon or plain French vinegar; 1 saltspoonful of salt, J saltspoonful of pepper. Mode.—Wash the lettuces, shake them in a cloth, i^nd Salad, Hed Cabbage cut them into inch lengths. Put the lettuce into a salad-bowl, sprinkle over the chopped burnet, and mix these well together. Put the salt and pepper into the salad-spoon, moisten with the vinegar, disperse this amongst the salad, pour the oil over, and mix the whole well together for at least five minutes, when the pre- paration will 1)0 ready for table. This is the very simple and expeditious mode of preparing a salad geneniliy adopted by our French neighbours, who are so noted, for the delicious manner in which they dress their bowl. Success will not bo obtained if the right vinegar is not pro- cured, therefore we advise our friends- who wish to excel in making a French. salad to procure a bottle of the best' French vinegar, flavoured with Tarragon . or not as the taste may dictate. Those: persons living in or near London, can i purchase the vinegar of Messrs. Crosse 3 & Blackwell, Soho Square, at whose es- ■ tablishment the quality of this important t ingredient in a salad can be relied cn.. Time.—To be stirred at least 5 minutes after all the ingredients are put in.. Sufficient. Allow 2 moderate-sized 1 lettuces for 4 persons. SecLsonalle.. Plentiful in summer, but scarce and I dear dming the winter season. Fresh. Fruit (A Dessert t SALAD, Dish). Mode.—Fruit salads are made by' stripping the fruit from the stalks, piling r it on a dish, and sprinkling over it tinely ' pounded sugar. They may be made of strawberries, raspberries, cun-ants, or • any of these fruits mixed ; peaches also ' make a very good salad. After the sujrar ■ is sprinkled over, about 6 large table- • spoonfuls of wine or brandy, or 3 table- - spoonfuls of liqueur, should be poured in i the middle of the fruit; and, when the » flavour is liked, a little pounded cinna- mon may be added. In helping the fruit, it should be lightly stirred, that the wine and sugar may be equally dis- • tributed. Snfficient.—Ih pint of fruity with 3 oz. of pounded sugar, for 4 or persons. Seasonable in summer. SALAD, Bed Cabbage. Ingredients.—A small red cabbage, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, i pint of vinegar, 3 tcaspoonfuls of oil, a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Mode.—Take off th* < outside leaves of a fresh red cabbageTHE DICTIONAHY OF COOKERY. 299 Salad, Summer and cut the remainder very finely into small thin slices. Mix with the cabbage the above salad ingredients, and let it remain for two days, when it will be fit for use. This salad will keep very well for a few days. The quantity of the ingredients may of com'se be a little varied, according to taste. Time.—2 days. Average cost, from 2c?. to 3rf, each. Seasonable in July and Augusli, SALAD, Summer. Ingredients.—3 lettuces, 2 handfuls of mustard- and-cress, 10 young radishes, a few slices of cucumber, il/orfe.—Let the herbs be as fresh as possible for a salad, and, if at all stale or dead-lcoking, let them lie in water for an hour or two, which will very much refresh them. SALAD IK Bowt. thoroughly by swinging them gently in a, clean cloth. With a silver knife, cut the lettuces into small pieces, and the radishes and cucumbers into thin slices; arrange all those in- gredients lightly on a dish, with the mustard-and-cress, and pour under, but not over the salad, either of the salad dressings, and do not stir it up until it is to be eaten. It may be garnished with hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices, sliced cucumbers, nasturtiums, cut vegetable- flowers, and many other things that taste will always suggest to make a pretty and elegant dish. In making a good salad, care must bo taken to have the herbs freshly gathered, and tliorourjidy drained before the sauce is added to them, or it will bo watery and thin. Young spring onions, cut small, are by many persons considered an improve- ment to salads; but, before these are added, the cook should always consult the taste of her employer. Slices of cold meat or poultry added to a salad make a convenient and quickly-mado summer luncheon-dish; or cold fish, flaked, will also be found exceedingly nice, mixed with it. Average cost, 9d for a Balad for 6 or 6 persons; but more ex- pensive when the herbs are forced. Salmon (a la Genevese) Sufficient for 5 or 6 persona. Seasonable from May to September. SALAD, "Winter. Ingredients. — Endive, mnstard-and- cress, boiled beetroot, 3 or 4 hard-boiled, eggs, celery. Mode.—The above in- gredients form the principal constituents of a winter salad, and may be converted into a very pretty dish, by nicely con- ' trasting the various colours, and by tastefully garnishing it. Shred the celery jRito thin pieces, after having carefully washed and cut away all worm-eaten pieces; cleanse the endive and mustard- and-cress free from grit, and arrange these high in the centre of a salad-bowl or dish; garnish with the hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, both of which should be cut in slices ; and pour into the dish, but not over the salad, either of the salad dressings. Never dress a salad long before it is required for table, as, by standing, it loses its freshness and pretty crisp and light appearance ; the sauce, however, may always be prepared a few hours beforehand, and when required to use, the herbslaid lightly over it. Average cost, ^d. for a salad for 5 or 6 persons. Sitfficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from the end of September to March. SALMON {h, la Genevese). Ingredients.—2 slices of salmon, 2 chopped shalots, a little parsley, a small bunch of herbs, 2 bay-leaves, 2 carrots, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of Madeira, ^ pint of white stock, thickening of butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of essence of an- chovies, the juice of 1 lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—^nh the bottom of a stewpan over with butter, and put in the shalots, herbs, bay- leaves, carrots, mace, and seasoning; stir them for 10 minutes over a clear fire, and add the Madeira or sherry; simmer gently for h hour, and strain through a sieve over, the fish, which stew in this gravy. As soon as the fish is sufficiently cooked, take away all the liqvior, except a little to keep the salmon moist, and put it into another stewpan ; add the stock, thicken with butter and flour, and put in the anchovies, lemon- juice, cayenne, and salt; lay the salmon on a hot dish, pour over it part of tho sauce, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Time,—11^ hour, Average cost800 THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKER?. Salmon, Boiled for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. SALMON, BoUed. Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water,—sufBcient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, and be particular that no blood is left insido ; lay it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, adding salt in the above proportion. Bring it quickly to a boil, take off all the scum, and let it simmer gently till the fish is done, which will be when the meat sepa- rates easily from the bone. Experience alono can teach the cook to fix the time for boiling fish ; but it is especially to be remembered, that it should never be under-dressed, as then nothing is more unwholesome. Neither let it remain in the kettle after it is sufficiently cooked, as that would render, it insipid, watery, and colourless. Drain it, and if not wanted for a few minutes, keep it warm by means of warm cloths laid over it. Sei^ve on a hot napkin, garnish with cut lemon and parsley, and send lobster or shrimp sauce, and j)lain melted butter to table with it. A dish of dressed cucum- ber usuallj' accompanies this fish. Time. —8 minutes to each lb. for large thick salmon ; 6 minutes for thin fish. Aver- age cost, in full season. Is. 2d. per lb. Sufficient, h lb., or rather less, for each person' Seasonable from April to August. Note.—Cut lemon should be put on the table with this fish ; and a little of the juice squeezed over it is regarded by many persons as a most agrccablo addi- tion. JBoiled peas are also, by some con- noisseurs, considered especially adapted to bo sei'ved with salmon. To Choose Salmon.—To be good, the belly should bo firm and thick, which may readily bo ascertained by feel- ing it with the thumb and finger. The circumstance of this fish having red gills, though given as a standing rule in most cookery-books, as a sign of its goodness, is not at all to bo relied on, as this quality can bo easily given them by art. SAIiMON AND CAPEB, SAUCE. Ingredients.—2 slices of salmon, \ lb. butter, .i, teaspoonfulof chopped parsley, 1 shalot'; salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg to tasto. Mode.—h&j the salmon Salmon, Curried in a baking-dish, place pieces of butter over it, and add the other ingredients, rubbing a little of the seasoning into the fish; baste it frequently; when done, take it out and drain for a minute or two ; lay it in a dish, pour caper sauce over it, and serve. Salmon dressed in: this waj', with tpmato sauce, is very delicious. ?'me. —About ^ hour. Aver.- age cost, Is. Zd. per lb. Sufficient for 41 or 6 persons. Seasonable from April to > August. SALMON". Collared. Ingredients.—A piece of salmon, say 31b., a high seasoning of salt, pounded mace, and pepper; water and vinegar, 3 bay-leaves. Mode.—Split the fish; scale, bone, and wash it thoroughly clean ; wipe it, and rub in the season- ing inside and out; roll it up, and bind firmly ; lay it in a kettle, cover it with vinegar and water vinegar, in pro. portion to the water); add the bay- leaves and a good seasoning of salt and whole pepper, and simmer till done. Do not remove the lid. Serve with melted butter or anchovy sauce. For pre- serving the collared fish, boil up the liquor in which it was cooked, and add a little more vinegar. Pour over when cold. Time.—^ hour, or rather more. SALMON", Crimped. Salmon is frequently dressed in this way at many fashionable tables, but must be very fresh, and cut into shoes 2 or 3 inches thick. Lay these in cold salt and water for 1 hour; have ready some boiling water, salted, and well skimmed; put in the fish, and simmer gently for | hour, or rather more; should it be very thick, garnish the same as boiled salmon, and serve with the same sauces. Time.—^ hour, more or les% according to size. Note.—Never use vinegar with salmon, as it spoils the taste and colour of the fish. SALMON, Curried. Ingredients.—Any remains of boiled salmon, '>i pint of strong or medium stock, 1 onion, 1 tablespoonful of curry- powder, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, 1 toiispoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 oz. of butter, the juice of A lemon, cayenno and salt to taste. Alode.^-Cni up theTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 301 Salmon Cutlets ■ fcnions into small pieces, and fry them of < 1 pale brown in- the butter ; add all the i jigredients but the salmon, and simmer yently till the onion is tender, oceasion- \\ly stirring the contents; cut the salmon into small squai-e pieces, carefully take \way all skin and bone, lay it in the stewpan, andletitgradually heat through; but do not allow it to boil long. Time.— I hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold hsh, 9d. SALMON CUTLETS. Cut the slices 1 inch thick, and season them with pepper and salt; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on a separate piece, with their ends twisted; broil gently over a clear fire, and serve with anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped herbs and a little spice. Time. —5 to 10 minutes, SALMON", Pickled. Ingredients.—^a\mQn, h oz. of wholo pepper, ^ oz. of whole allspice, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 2 bay-leaves, equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Mode.—After the fish comes from table, lay it in a nice dish with a cover to it, as it should be excluded from the air, and take away the bone ; boil the liquor and vinegar with the ether ingredients for 10 minutes, and let it stand to get cold ; pour it over the salmon, and in 12 hours this will be fit for the table. Time,—10 minutes. SALMON, Potted. Ingredients.—Salmon, pounded mace, cloves, and pepper to taste ; 3 bay-leaves, \Vo. butter. Mode.—^kin the salmon, and clean it thoroughly by wiping with a cloth (water would spoil it); cut it into square pieces, which rub with salt; let them remain till thoroughly drained, then lay them in a dish with the other ingredients, and bake. When quite done, drain them from the gravy, press into pots for use, and, when cold, pour over it claritied butter. Tiriie,—}^ hour. SALMON, to Curo. This process consists in splitting the fish, rubbing it with salt, and then put- ting it into pickle in tubs provided for the purpose. Here it is kept for about Salsify, to Dress six weeks, when it is taken out, pressed and packed in casks, with layers of salt. SALMON, to Help. First run the knife quite down to tho bono, along the side of the fish, from a to h, and also from c to d. Then help the thick part lengthwise, that is, in the direction of the lines from a to &; and the thin part breadthwise, that is, in the direction of the lines from e to /, as shown in the engraving. A slice of the thick part should always be accompanied by a smaller piece of the thin from the belly, where lies the fat of the fish. Note. — Many persons, in carving salmon, make the mistake of slicing the thick part of this fish in the opposite direction to that we have stated ; and thus, by the breaking of the flakes, the beauty of its appearance is destroyed. SALSIFY, to Dress. Ingredients.—Salsify; to each ^ gallon of water fdlow 1 heaped tablespoontul of salt, 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Scrape the roots gently, so as to strip them only of their outside peel; cut them into pieces about 4 inches long', and, as they are peeled, throw them into water with which has been mixed a little lemon-juice, to pre- vent their discolouring. Put them into boiling_ water, with salt, butter, and lemon-juice in the above proportion, and lot them boil rapidly until tender j try them with a fork j and, when it pene- trates easily, thoy are done. Drain the salsify, and servo with a good white sauce or French melted butter. Time.—Z^ to £0 minutes. Seasonable in winter. Note.—This vegetable may be also boiled, sliced, and fried in batter of a nice brown. When crisp and a good colour, thoy should be served with fried parsley in tho centre of the dish, and a little line salt sprinkled over the salsify.THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 803 Sandwiches, Victoria SANDWICHES, Victoria. Ingredients.—A eggs; their weight in pounded sugar, butter, and flour; :J salt- spoonful of salt, a layer of any kind of jam or marmalade. Mode.—BcsX tho butter to a cream; dredge in the flour and pounded sugar; stir theso ingre- dients well togther, and add the eggs, which should be previously thoroughly whisked. When the mixture has been well beaten for about 10 minutes, butter a Yoi-kshire-pudding tin, pour in the batter, and bake it in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Let it cool, spread one half of tho cake with a layer of nice pre- serve, place over it the other half of the cake, press the pieces slightly together, and then cut it into long finger-pieces ; pile them in crossbars, on a glass dish, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Is. ^d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. SAUCES, General Eemarks upon. The preparation and appearance of sauces and gravies are of the highest consequence, and in nothing does the talent and taste of the cook more display itself. Their special adaptability to the various viands they are to accompany cannot be too much studied, in order that they may harmonize and blend with them as perfectly, so to speak, as does a pianoforte accompaniment with the voice of the singer. The general basis of most gravies and some sauces is the same stock as that used for soups ; and, by the employment of these, with, perhaps, an additional slice of ham, a little spice, a few herbs, and a slight flavouring from some cold sauce or ketchup, very nice gi'avies may be made for a very small expenditure. A milt (either of a bullock or sheep), the shank-end of mutton that has already been dressed, and the necks and feet of poultry may all be advantageously used for gravy, where much is not required. It may, then, bo established as a rule, that there exists no necessity for good gravies to be expensive, and that there is no occasion, as many would have the world believe, to buy ever so many pounds of fresh meat, in order to furnish an ever BO littlo quantity of gravy. Erown sauces, generally speaking, should scarcely be so thick as white sauces ; and \i is well to bear in mind, that all those which are intended to mask Sauce a la Matelote, for Fish. the various dishes of poultry or meatt should be of a sufficient consistency t slightly adhere to the fowls or joint., over which they are poured. For brown ing and thickening sauces, &;c., browne' flour may be properly employed. Sauces should possess a decided cha racter; and whether sharp or sweet savoury or plain, they should carry oul: their names in a distinct manner, al- though, of course, not so much flavourc as to make them too piquant on the one hand, or too mawkish on the other. Gravies and sauces should be sent to table very hot; and there is all the more necessity for the cook to see to this point, as, from their being usually served in small quantities, they are more liable to cool quickly than if they were in a larger body. Those sauces, of which cream or eggs form a component part, should be well stirred, as soon as these ingredients are added to them, and must. never be allowed to boil; as, in that case,, they would instantly curdle. SAUCE h L'AUEOBE, for Trout, Soles, &c. Ingredients.—The spawn of 1 lobster, 1 oz. of butter, .] pint of Bechamel, the juice of h lemon, a high seasoning of salt and cayenne. Mode.—Take the spawn and pound it in a mortar with the butter, until quite smooth, and work it through a hair sieve. Put the Bdchamcl into a stowpan, add the pounded spawn, the lemon-juice, which must bo strained, and a plentiful seasoning of cayenne and salt; let it just simmer, but do not allow it to boil, or the beautiful red colour of the sauce will be spoiled. A small spoon- ful of anchovy essence may bo added at pleasure. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. Suffi- cient for a pair of lai'ge soles. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE a, la MATELOTE, for Fish. Ingredients.—\ pint of Espngnole, 3 onions, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, .3 glass of port wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, A bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, I clove, 2 berries of allspice, a little liquor in which the fish has been boiled, lemon-juice, and an- chovy sauce. Mode.—Slice and fry tho onions of a nice brown colour, and put them into a stewpan with tho Espagnole, ketchup, wine, and a little liquor ini THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 303 Sauce Allemande ^ which the fish has be»n boiled. Add the .' seasoning, herbs, and spices, and simmer .;■ gently for 10 minutes, stirring well the ..^ whole time ; strain it through a tine hair ;j sieve, put in the lemon-juice and anchovy ' sauce, and pour it over the fish. This sauce may be very much enriched by putting in a few small quenelles, or force- ; meat balls made of fish, and also glazed V onions or mushrooms. These, however, should not be added to the matelote till • it is dished. Tivie.—10 minutes. Average ^ cost, Is 6d. Seasonable at any time. J^''oie.—This sauce originally took its ; name as being similar to that which the ■ French sailor (maielot) employed as a ■ relish to the fish he caught and ate. In some cases cider and perry were substi* •^uted for the wine. The Norman mate- lotes were very celebrated. SATJC£3 ALLEMANDE, or German Sauce. Ingredients.—J pint of sauce tournSe, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Put the sauce into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, which have been previously strained. Let it just simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle ; and after they are added to the sauce, it must be stirred without ceasing. This sauce is a general favou- rite, and is used for many made dishes. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, 6d. SAUCE ARISTOCRATIQUE (a Store Sauce). Ingredients.—Green walnuts. To every pint of juice, 1 lb. of anchovies, 1 drachm of cloves, 1 drachm of mace, 1 drachm «f Jamaica ginger bruised, 8 shalots. To every pint of the boiled liquor, h pint of vinegar, | pint of port wine, 2 table- spoonful* of soy. Mode.—FovLud the walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear juice, and to every pint of it, add anchovies, spices, and cloves in the above proportion. Boil all these together till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again, put in the shalots (8 to every pint), and boil again. To every pint of the boiled liquor add vinegar, wine, and soy, in the above quantities, and bottle off for use. Cork well and seal the corks. Seasonable.— Make thifl sauce from the beginning to Sauce, Bread the middle of July, when walnuts are iu perfection for sauces and pickling. Average cost, 3s. Qd. for a quart. SAUCE, Benton (to serve with Hot or Cold Eoast Beef). Ingredients. — 1 tablespoonful of scraped horseradish, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of vino^var. Mode.'—Grate or scrape the horseradish very fine, and mix it with the other in- gredients, which must be all well blended together; serve in a tureen. With cold meat, this sauce is a very good substitute for pickles. Average cost for this quan- tity, 2d. SAUCE, Mango Chetney, Bengal Eecipe for Making. Ingredients. — 1^ lb. of moist sugar, f lb. of salt, I lb. of garlic, | lb. of onions, | lb. of powdered gingei", | lb. of dried chilies, f lb. of mustard-seed, | lb. of stoned raisins, 2 bottles of best vinegar, 30 large unripe sour apples. Mode.—The sugar must be made into syrup ; the garlic, onions, and ginger be finely pounded in a mortar ; the mustard- seed be washed in cold vinegar, and dried in the sun ; the apples be peeled, cored, and sliced, and boiled in a bottle and a half of the vinegar. When all this is done, and the apples are quite cold, put them into a large pan, and gradually mix the whole of the rest of the ingre- dients, including the remaining half- bottle of vinegar. It must be well stirred until the whole is thoroughly blended, and then put into bottles for use. Tie a piece of wet bladder over the mouths of the bottles, after they are well corked. This chetney is very superior to any which can be bought, and one trial will prove it to be delicious. Note.—This recipe was given by a native to an English lady, who had long been a resident in India, and who, since her return to her native country, has become quite celebrated amongst her friends for the excellence of this Eastern relish. SaUCE, Bread (to serve with Roast Turkey, Fowl, Game, &c). Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, f lb. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion; pounded mace, cayonno, aod salt to304 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bauce, Bread tasto ; 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—PcgI and quarter the onion, and simmer it in the milk till perfectly tender. Break the bread, which should bo stale, into small pieces, carefully picking out any hard or side pieces ; put it in a very clean sauce- pan, strain the milk over it, cover it up, and let it remain for an hour to soak. Now beat it up with a fork very smoothly, add a seasoning of pounded mace, cayenne, and salt, with 1 oz. of butter; give the whole one boil, and sci-ve. To enrich this sauce, a small quantity of cream may be added just before seuding it to table. Time.—Altogether, If hour. Average cost iovihiBqaaxiixtj, 4d. Suf- ficient to serve with a turkey, pair of fowls, or brace of partridges, SAUCE, Bread (to serve with Boast Tiirkey, Fowl, Game, &c). Ingredients.—Giblets of poultry, f lb. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion, 12 whole peppers, 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or melted butter, 1 pint of water. Mode.— Put the giblets, with the head, neck, legs, &c., into a stewpan ; add the onion, fepper, mace, salt, and rather more than pint of water. Let this simmer for an hour, when strain the liquor over the bread, which should be previously grated or broken into small pieces. Cover up the saucepan, and leave it for an hour by the side of the fire ; then beat the sauce up with a fork until no lumps remain, and the whole is nice and smooth. Let it boil for 3 or 4 minutes ; keep stirring it until it is rather thick; when add 3 table- spoonfuls of good melted butter or cream, and serve very hot. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost, 6d. SAUCE, Christoplier ITorth's, for Meat or Game. Ingredients.—1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, 1 des- sertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, ditto of pounded whito sugai', 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, ^ teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, ditto of salt. Mode.—Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, and beat the sauce gratlually, by placing the vessel in which it is made in a saucepan of boiling water. Do not allow it to boil, and serve directly it is ready. This sauce, if bottled immediately, will keep good for a fortnight, and will be found ozcellcut. Sauce, Epicurean SAUCE, Dutch, for Fish. Ingredients. — h teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of A lemon ; salt to taste. Mode.—Put all'the ingredients, except the lemon-juice, into a stewpan ; set it over the fire, and keep continually stirring. When it is sufiiciently thick, take it off, as it should not boil. If, however, it happens to curdle, strain that sauce through a tammy, add the lemon- juice, and serve. Tarragon vinegar may" be used instead of plain, and, by many, is considered far preferable. Average', cost, 6d. Note.—This sauce may be poured hot over salad, and left to get quite cold, when it should be thick, smooth, and somewhat stifi". Excellent salads may ber made of hard eggs, or the remains of salt fish flaked nicely from the bone, by. pouring over a little of the above mixture, when hot, and allowing it to cool. SAUCE, Green Dutch, or Hollan- daise Verte. Ingredients. — 6 tablespoonfuls of B&hamel, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne, a little parsley-green to colour, the juice of h a lemon. Mode.—Put the B€chamel into a saucepan with the seasoning, and bring it to a boil. Make a green colouring by pounding some parsley in a mortar, and squeezing all the juice from it. Let this just simmer, when add it to the sauce. A moment before sei-ving, put in the lemon-juice, but not before ; for otherwise the sauce would turn, yellow, and its appearance bo thus spoiled. Average cost, Ad. SAUCE, Epicurean, for Steaks, Chops, Gravies, or Fish. Ingredients.—\ pint of walnut ketchup, I pint of mushroom ditto, 2 tablespoon- fuls of Indian soy, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine ; i oz. of whito popper, 2 oz. of shalots, j( oz. of cayenne, i oz. of cloves, I pint of vinegar. Moae.—Put the whole of the ingredients into a bolllo. and lot it remain for a fortnight in a warm place, occasionally shaking up the contents. Strain, and bottle ofi" for uso. This sauce will be found an agreeable addition to gravies, hashes, stows, &.Q, Average cost, for this quantity, Is. Qd.THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKERY. 305 Sauce, Genevese SAUCE, Genevese, for Salmon, Trout, &c. Ingredients.—1 small carrot, a small faggot of sweet herbs, including parsley, 1 onion, 5 or 6 mushrooms (when obtain- able), 1 bay-leaf, 6 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, 1 glass of sherry, Ih pint of white stock, thickening of butter and flour, the juice of half a lemon. Mode.—Cnt up the onion and carrot into small rings, and put them into a stewpan with the herbs, mush- rooms, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace; add the butter, and simmer the whole very gently over a slow fire until the onion is quite tender. Pour in the stock and sherry, and stew slowly for 1 hour, when strain it off into a clean saucepan. Now make a thickening of butter and flour, put it to the sauce, stir it over the fire until perfectly smooth and mellow, add the lemon-juice, give one boil, when it will be ready for table. Time.—Alto- gether 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 2d. per pint. Sufficient, half this quantity for two slices of salmon. SAUCE, Green, for Green Geese or Ducklings. Ingredients. — \ pint of sorrel-juice, 1 glass of sherry, h pint of green goose- berries, 1 teaspoonftd of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter. Mode.—Boil the gooseberries in water until they are quite tiender; mash them and press them through a sieve; put the pulp into a saucepan with the above ingredients; simmer for 3 or 4 minutes, and serve very hot. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Note.—We have given this recipe as a sauce for green geese, thinking that some of our readers might sometimes require it; but, at the generality of fashionable tables, it is now seldom or never served. SAUCE, Indian Chetney. Ingredients. — 8 oz. of sharp, sour apples, pared and cored; 8 oz. of toma- toes, 8 oz. of salt, 8 oz. of brown sugar, 8 oz. of stoned raisins, 4 oz. of cayenne, 4 oz. of powdered ginger, 2 oz. of garlic, 2 oz. of shalots, 3 quarts of vinegar, 1 quart of lemon juice. Mode.—Chop tho apples in small square pieces, and add to them the other ingredients. Mix the whole well together, and put in a \7ell-covcred jar. Keep this in a warm place, and stir "every da.j for q month. Sauce, Leamington taking care to put on the lid after this operation ; strain, but do not squeeze it dry; store it away in clean jars or bottles for use, and the liquor will serve as an excellent sauce for meat or fish. Seasonable.—Make this sauce when toma- toes are in full season, that is, from tbo beginning of September to the end of October. SAUCE, Italian (Brown). Ingredients.—A few chopped mush- rooms and shalots, ^ pint of stock, ^ glass of Madeira, the juice of ^ lemon, ^ tea- spoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.— V\xt the stock into a stewpan with the mush- rooms, shalots, and Madeira, and stew gently for 5 hour, then add the remain- ing ingredients, and let them just boil. When the sauce is done enough, put it in another stewpan, and warm it in a lain marie. The mushi-ooms should not be chopped long before they are wanted, as they will then become black. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, for this quantity, Id. Sufficient for a small dish. SAUCE, Italian (WMte). Ingredients.—h pint of white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped shalots, 1 slice of ham, minced very fine; ^ pint of Bechamel ; salt to taste, a few drops of garlic vinegar, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a squeeze of lemon- juice. Mode. —Put the shalots and mush- rooms into a stewpan with the stock and ham, acid simmer very gently for ^ hour, when add tho Bechamel. Let it just boil up, and then strain it through a tammy; season with the above ingredients, and serve very hot. If this sauce should not have retained a nice white colour, a little cream may be added. Time.—h hour. Average cost, for this quantity, lOd. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. iV^oie.—To preserve the colour of tho mushrooms after pickling, throw them into water to which a little lemon-juice has been added. m SAUCE, Leamington (an Excellent Sauce for Flavouring Gravies, Hashes, Soups, &c. —Author'B Kecipe). Ingredients.—Walnuts. To each quar't of waluut-jiiico allow 3 (Quarts of vinegqa*,THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 806 Sauce, Maltre d'Hotel 1 pint of Indian soy, 1 oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of shalots, f oz. of garlic, A pint of port wine. Mode.—Be very particular in choosing the walnuts as soon as thoy ap- pear in the market; for they aro more easily bruised before they become hard and shelled. Pound them in a mortar to a pulp, strew some salt over them, and let them remain thus for two or throe days, occasionally stirring and moving them about. Press out tho juice, and to each quart of walnut-liquor allow the above proportion of vinegar, soy, cayenne, Bhalots, garlic, and port wine. Pound each ingredient separately in a mortar, then mix them well together, and store away for use in small bottles. The corks should be well sealed. Seasonable.—This sauce should be made as soon as walnuts are obtainable, from the beginning to tha middle of July. SAUCE, Maltre d'Hotel (Hot), to serve with Calf's Head, Boiled Eels, and different Fish. Ingredients.—1 slice of minced ham, a few poultiy-trimmings, 2 shalots, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, | pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 heaped tablespoouful of chopped pars- ley ; salt, pepper, and cayenne, to taste ; the juice of ^ large lemon, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Put at the bottom of a stewpan the minced ham, and over it the poultry-trimmings (if these are not at hand, veal should be substituted), with the shalots, gai-lic, and bay-leaf. Pour in the water, and let the whole simmer gently for 1 hour, or until tho liquor is reduced to a full ^ pint. Then strain this gravy, put it in another saucepan, make a thickening of butter and flower in the abovo proportions, and stir it to the gravy over a nice clear firo, until it is perfectly smooth and rather thick, care being taken that the butter does not float on the surface. Skim well, add tho remaining ingredients, lot tho sauce gradually heat, but do not allow it to boil. If this sauce is intended for an cntrdo, it is necessary to make it of a suflicient thickness, so that it may adhere to what it is meant to cover. Time.—1.^ hour. Average cost, \t. 2d. per pint. Sufficie7it for re- warming the remains of h calf's head, or a small dish of cold flaked turbot, cod^ &0, Sauce, a Good SAUCE, Maigre Maltre d'Hotel (Hot.—Made without Meat). Ingredients.—^ pint of melted butter, 1 heaped tablespoonful of chopped pars' ley, salt and pepper to taste, the juice of 1 largo lemon; when liked, 2 minced shalots. i7orfe.—Make ^ pint of melted butter, stir in the above ingredients, and let them just boil; when it is ready to serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, Qd. per pint. SAUCE PIQUANTE, for Cutlets, Boast Meat, &c. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 small carrot, 6 shalots, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, \ a bay-leaf, 2 slices of lean ham, 2 cloves, 6 pepper- corns, 1 blade of mace, 3 whole allspice, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, i pint of stock, 1 small lump of sugar, | s'altspoon- ful of cayenne, salt to taste. Mode.—■ Put into a stewpan the butter, with tho carrots and shalots, both of which must be cut into small slices; add tho herbs, bay-leaf, spices, and ham (which must ba minced rather finely), and let these in« gredients simmer over a slow fire, until the bottom of tho stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and put in the remain- ing ingredients. Simmer very gently for \ hour, skim off every particle of fat, strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot. Care must be taken that this sauce be not made too acid, although it' should possess a sharpness indicated by its name. Of course the above quantity of vinegar may be increased ordiminished at pleasure, according to taste. Time. — Altogether ^ hour. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for "a medium-sized dieh of cut- lets. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE, a Good, for Various Boiled Puddings. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, | lb. of pounded sugar, a wineglassful of brandy or rum. Mode.—Beat tho butter to a cream, until no lumps remain ; add the pounded sugar, and brandy or rum ; stir once or twice until tho whole isthoroucfhly mixed, and servo. This sauce may cither bo poured round tho pudding or served in a tureen, according to the taste or faucjf of the cook or mistress. 4-veraj]$S07 THE DICTIONARY OF COOEERf. Sauce, Plum-Pudding cost, M. tor this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding. SAUCE, Plum-Pudding. Iiifjredients.—1 wineglassful of brandy, 2 oz. of very fresh butter, 1 glass of Ma- deira, pounded sugar to taste. Mode.— Put the pounded sugar in a basin, with part of the brandy and the butter; let it stand by the side of the fire until it is warm and the sugar and butter are dis- solved ; then add the rest of the brandy, with the Madeira. Either pour it over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. This is a very rich and excellent sauce. Average cost, Is. 3rf. for this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding made for 6 persons. SAITCf], Quin's, an Excellent Fish Sauce. Ingredients.—^ pint of walnut pickle, h pint of port wine, 1 pint of mushroom ketchup, 1 dozen anchovies, 1 dozen shalots, ^ pint of soy, J teaspoonful of cayenne. Mode.—Put all the ingre- dients into a saucepan, having previously chopped the shalots and anchovies very small; simmer for 15 minutes, strain, and, when cold, bottle off for use; the corks should be well sealed to exclude the air. Time.—\ hour. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE, Reading. Ingredients.—2 J pints of walnut pickle, 1J oz. of shalots, 1 quart of spring water, ^ pint of Indian soy, ^ oz. of bruised ginger, ^ oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, 1 anchovy, | oz. of cay- enne, ^ oz. of dried sweet bay-leaves. Mode.—Bruise the shalots in a mortar, and put them in a stone jar with the walnut-liquor; place it before the fire, and let it boil until reduced to 2 pints. Then, into another jar, put all the in- gredients except the bay-leaves, taking care that they are well bruised, so that the flavour may be thoroughly extracted ; put this also before the fire, and let it boil for 1 hour, or rather more. Wlien the contents of both jars are sufficiently cooked, mix them together, stirring them well as you mix them, and submit them to a slow boiling for ^ hour ; cover closely, anif let them stand 24 hours in a cool lace ; then open the jar and add the ay-lcavcs ; let it stand a week longer closed down, when strain through a Sauce, a Good, for Steaks flannel bag, and it vnll be ready for usa- The above quantities will make ^ gallon. Time.—Altogether, 3 hours. Seasonabla, —This sauce may be made at any time. SAUCE, Robert, for Steaks, &g. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 4 tablespoonfuls of gravy or stock, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 tea* spoonful of vinegar, the juice of | lemon. Mode,—Put the butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and, when browning, throw in the onions, which must be cut into small slices. Fry them brown, but do not burn them ; add the flo\ir, shake the onions in it, and give the whole another fry. Put in the gravy and seasoning, and boU it gently for 10 minutes ; skim off the fat, add the mus- tard, vinegar, and lemon-juice; give it one boil, and pour round the steaks, or whatever dish the sauce has been pre- pared for. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. Average cost, for this quantity, Qd. Suffi- cient for about 2 lbs. of steak. Season- able at any time. JVote.—This sauce will be found an ex- cellent accompaniment to roast goose, pork, mutton cutlets, and various other dishes. SAUCE, Soyer's, for Plum-Pud- ding. Ingredients.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 1 gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wineglassfuls of brandy. Mode. —Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs, and put the former into a stew- pan ; add the sugar, milk, and grated lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens; but do not allow it to boil. Put in the brandy; let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, tc get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a boat or tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding, yime.—Altogether, 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons, SAUCE, a Good, for Steaks. Ingredients.—1 oz. of whole black pepper, J oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of salt, 5 oz. grated horseradish, oz. of pickled shalots, 1 pint of mushroom ketchup or walnut pickle. Mode.—Pound all tlio ingredients finely in a msrtar, and putTHE DICTIONAEy OP COOKEEY. 308 Sauce, Sweet, for Puddings tlicm into tlio ketchup or walnut-liquor. Lot them stand for a fortnight, when strain off the liquor and bottle for use. Either pour a little of the sauce over the steaks, or mix it in the gravy. Season- able.—This can be made at any time. Note.—In using a jar of pickled wal- nuts, there is frequently left a large quantity of liquor. This should be con- verted into a sauce like the above, and will be found a very useful relish. SAUCE, Sweet, for Puddings. Ingredients.—h pint of melted butter made with milk, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, flavouring of grated lemon-rind or cinnamon. Mode.—Make h pint of melted butter, omitting any salt; stir in the sugar, add a little grated lemon-rindj nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon, and serve. Previously to making the melted butter, the milk can be flavoured with bitter almonds, by infusing about half a dozen of them in it for about \ hour; the milk should then be strained before it is added to the other ingredients. This simple sauce may be served for children with rice, batter, or bread pud- ding. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SAUCE, Sweet, for Venison. Ingredients.—A small jar of red-cur- rant jelly, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.— Put the above ingredients into a stew- pan, set them over the fire, and, when melted, pour in a tureen and serve. It should not be allowed to boil. Time.— 6 minutes to melt the jelly. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. SAUCE, Tourn^e. Ingredients.—1 pint of white stock, thickening of flour and butter, or white roux, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, (5 chopped mushrooms, 6 green onions. Mode.—Put the stock into a stewpan with the herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about h hour; stir in suflicient thickening to make it of a proper con- sistency ; let it boil for a few minutes, then skim off all the fat, strain and serve. This sauce, with the addition of a little cream, is now frequently called veloutfi. Time.—h hour. Average cost, for this quantity'; «^ Sausage-meat Stuffing Note.—If poultry trimmings are at hand, the stock should be made of these. The above sauce should not bo made too thick, as it does not then admit cf the fat being nicely removed. SAUCE FOB "WTLDPOWIi. Ingredients.—1 glass of port wine, 1 tablespoonful of Leamington sauce, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 slice of lemon-peel, 1 large shalot cut in slices, 1 blade of mace, cayenne to taste. Mode, —Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, set it over the fire, and let it simmer for about 5 minutes; then strain and serve the sauce in a tureen. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost, for this quantity, 8ci. SAUSAGE-MEAT, Fried. Ingredients.—To every 1 lb. of lean pork, add | lb. of fat bacon, h oz. of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. Mode.—Remove from the pork all skin, gristle, and bone, and chop it finely with the bacon ; add the remaining ingredients, and carefully mix altogether* Pound it well in a mortar, make it into convenient-sized cakes, flour these, and fry them a nice brown for about 10 minutes. This is a very simple method of making sausage-meat, and on trial will prove very good, its great recom- mendation being, that it is so easily made. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable from September to March, SAUSAGE - MEAT STUFFING FOR TURKEYS. Ingredients.—6 oz. of lean pork, 6 oz. of fat pork, both weighed after being chopped (beef-suet may be substituted for the latter), 2 oz. of bread-crumbs, 1 small tablespoonful of minced sage, 1 blade of pounded mace, salt and pepper to tasto, 1 egg. Mode.—Chop the meat and fat very finely, mix with them the other ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Mois- ten with the egg, and the stufiing will be ready for use. Equal quantities of this stuffing and forcemeat will be found to answer veiy well, as the herbs, lemon- peel, &c., in the latter, impart a very delicious flavour to the sausage-meat. As preparations, however, like stuffings end forcemeats, are matters to bo de-809 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Sausage or Meat Kolls cided by individual palates, they must be left, to a great extent, to the discrimi- nation of the cook, who should study her employer's taste in this as in evei-y other respect. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for a small turkey. SAUSAGE OB MEAT BOLLS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of puff-paste, sau- eage-meat, the yolk of 1 egg. Mode.— Make 1 lb. of puff-paste; roll it owt to the tluckness of about ^ inch, or rather less, and divide it into 8, 10, or 12 squares, according to the size the rolls are intended to be. Place Bome sausage-meat on one-half of each square, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it over the meat; slightly press the edges together, and trim them neatly with a knife. Brush the rolls over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them in a well-heated oven for about ^ hour, or longer should they be very large. The remains of cold chicken and ham, minced and seasoned, as also cold veal or beef, make veiy good rolls. Time.—\ hour, or longer if the rolls are large". Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient.—1 lb. of paste for 10 or 12 rolls. Seasonable, with sausage-meat, from September to March or April. SAUSAGES. Beef. Ingredients.—To every lb. of suet allow 2 lbs. of lean beef, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mode.—Clear the suet from skin, and chop that and the beef as finely as possible ; season with pepper, salt, and spices, and mix the whole well to- gether. Make it into flat cakes, and fry of a nice brown. Many persons pound the meat in a mortar after it is chopped; but this is not necessary when the meat is minced finely. Time.— 10 minutes. Average cost, for this quan- tity. Is. Qd. Seasonable at any time. SAUSAGES, Fried. Ingredients.—Sausages: a small piece of butter. Mode.—Vrick the sausages with a fork (this prevents them from bursting), and put them into a frying- PBIBD SAUSAGES. pan with a small piece of butter. Keep moving the pan about, apd turn ^the Sausages, Veal sausages 3 or 4 times. In from 10 to 12 minutes they will be suffi- ciently cooked, unless they are very large, when a little more time should be allowed for them. Dish them with or without a piece of toast under them, and serve very hot. In some counties, sausages are boiled and served on toast. They should be plunged into boiling water, and simmered for about 10 or 12 minutes. Time.—10 to 12 minutes. Average cost, \0d. per lb. Seasonable.— Good from September to March. Note.—Sometimes, in close warm weather, sausages very soon turn sour; to prevent this, put them in the oven for a few minutes with a small piece of butter to keep them moist. When wanted for table, they will not require BO long frying as uncooked sausages. SAUSAGES, Pork (Author's Ox- ford Becipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle ; 1 lb. of lean veal, 1 lb. of beef suet, ^ lb. of bread- crumbs, the rind of ^ lemon, 1 small nutmeg, 6 sage-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, ^ tea- spoonful of savory, ^ teaspoonful of marjoram. Mode.—Chop the pork, veal, and suet finely together, add the bread-crumbs, lemon-peel (which should be well minced), and a small nutmeg grated. Wash and chop the sage- leaves very finely; add these with the remaining ingi-edients to the sausage- meat, and when thoroughly mixed, either put the meat into skins, or, when wanted for table, form it into little cakes, which should be floured and fried. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for about 30 moderate- sized sausages. Seasonable from October to March. SAUSAGES, Veal. Ingredients.—EqnaX quantitifaj of fat bacon and lean veal; to every lb. of meat, allow 1 teaspoonful of minced- sage, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.— Chop the meat and bacon finely, and to every lb. allow the above proportioti of very finely-minced sago; add a sea- soning of pepper and salt, mix the whole well together, make it into flat cakes, and fry a nice brown, Seasonab from March to October,310 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 3avoy Cako SAVOY CAKE. Ingredients.—Tho weight of 4 eggs in pouuded loaf sugar, the weight of 7 in flour, a little grated lemon-rlnd, or es- sence of almonds, or orange-flower water. Mode.—Break the 7 eggs, put- ting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, the grated lemon-rind, or any other flavouring to taste ; beat them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, continuing to beat the mixture for ^ hour, butter a mould, pour in the cake, and bake it from 1^ to 1^ hour. This is a very nice cake for desert, and may be iced for a supper table, or cut into slices and spread with jam, which converts it into sandwiches. Time.—l;|tol2hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. SEA-BREAM, Baked. Ingredients.—1 bream. Seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and cayenne ; ^ lb. of butter. Mode.—Well wash the bream, but do not remove the scales, and wipe away all moisture with a nice dry cloth. Season it inside and out with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and lay it in a baking-dish. Place the butter, in small pieces, upon the fish, and bake for rather more than ^ an hour. To stufif this fish before baking, will be found a great improvement. Time.— Eather more than ^ an hour. Seasonable in summer. Note.—This fish may be broiled over a nice clear fire, and served with a good brown gravy or white sauce, or it may be stewed in wine. SEA-KALE, Boiled. Ingredients.—To each I gallon of water allow one heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Well wash the kale, cut away any worm-eaten pieces, and tie it into small bunches; put it into boiling ■water, salted in the above proportion, and lot it boil uickly until ten- or. Take it out, drain, untie the bunches, and Borvo with plain molted butter or white sauce, a Uttlo of which may be Beed-Cake, a Very Good poured over tho ka'e. Sea-kale may also bo parboiled and stewed in good brown gravy : it will then take about ^ Lour ■ altogether. Time. —15 minutes; when liked very thorouglily done, allow an extra 5 minuies. Average cost, in full season, 9(^. per basket. SuJJicienl.—Allow 12 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iable from February to Juno. SE3D BISCTJITS. Ingredieyits.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of sifted sugar, ^ lb. of butter, J oz. of caraway seeds, 3 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in the flour, sugar, and caraway seeds; and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the eggs, which should be well whisked. Roll out the paste, with a round cutter shape out the biscuits, and bake them in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. The tops of the biscuits may be brushed over with a little milk or the white of an egg, and then a little sugar strewn over. Time.—10 or 15 minutes. Average cost. Is. Svfficient to make 3 dozen biscuits. Seasonable at any time. SEED-CAKE, Common. Ingredients. — ^ quartern of dough, 1 lb. of good dripping, C oz. of moist sugar, ^ oz. of caraway seeds, 1 egg. Mode.—If the dough is sent in from the bakers, put it in a basin covered with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. Then with a wooden spoon beat the dripping to a liquid; add it, with the other ingredients, to the dough, and beat it until everything is very tho- roughly mixed. Put it into a buttered tin, and bake the cake for rather more than 2 hours. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, 8<i. Seasonable at any time. SEED-CAKE, a Very Good. Ingredients.—I lb. of butter, 6 eggs, 'I lb. of sifted sugar, pounded mace and grated nutmeg to taste, 1 lb. of flour, 4 oz. of caraway seeds, 1 wineglassful of brandy. Jl/orfc—Beat tho butter to a cream ; dredge in tho flour; add the sugar, mace, nutmeg, and caraway seeds, and mix these ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir to them the brandy, and beat tho cake a^ain for 10 minutes. Put it into a tin lined with buttered311 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Semolina Pudding, Baked. paper, and bake it from 1^ to 2 hours. This cako would be equally nice made with currants, and omitting the caraway seeds. Time.—li to 2 hours. Average cost, 2s. 6c?. Seasonable at any time. SEMOLINA PUDDma, Baked. Ingredients.—3 oz. of semolina, Ih pint of milk, \ lb. of sugar, 12 bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, 4 egsfs. il/o(Ze.—Flavour the milk with the bitter almonds, by in- fusing them in it by the side of the fire for about h hour; then strain it, and mix with it the semolina, sugar, and butter. Stir these ingredients over the fire for a few minutes ; then take them off, and gradually mix in the eggs, which should be well beaten. Butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake in rather a slow oven from 40 to 50 minutes. Serve with cus- tard sauce or stewed fruit, a little of which may be poured over the pudding. Time.—40 to 50 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. SEMOLINA SOUP. Ingredients.—5 oz. of semolina, 2 quarts of boiling stock. Mode.—Drop the semo- lina into the boiling stock, and keep stirring, to prevent its burning. Simmer ently for half an hour, and serve. Time. an hour. Average cost, lOd. per quart, or id. Svfficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. SEPTEMBER—BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for 18 Persons. First Course. W S, Julienne Soup, g removed by ^ BriU& Shrimp Sauce, s- 4 2 Vase of W g Flowers. § Qiblet Soup, Qj removed by g Salmon and Lobster ra Sauce. September—Bills of Pare Dinner for 12 persons. First CoM7-se.—Mock-turtle soup ; soup h la Jardiniere; salmon and lobster sauce; fried whitings; stewed eels. ees—Veal cutlets; scalloped oysters ; curried fowl; grilled mushrooms. Second Coicrse.—Haunch, of mutton; boiled calf's head k la Bdchamel j braised ham roast fowls aux Crossons. Third Course; — Leveret; grouse; cabinet pudding, iced pudding; compOte of plums; deaa Entries. Lamb Cutlets and g French Beans. 0 »<* ■S CO 2 O Vase of <a Flowers. Sweetbreads and Tomato Sauce. Second Coiurse. r> Saddle of Mutton. & & Veal-and-Ham Pie. (ft a Vase of 5 Flowers. -a Broiled Ham, gar- "5 nished with Cauli- ^ flowers. Fillet of Veal. Third Course. g Partridges, removed by 'S Plum-pudding. S m Compote of Greengages 9 "a, g Vase of o 5^ Flowers. a o Q <u Hd Pastry Sandwiches. 5"' „ B Grouse &Br eadSauce, M H removed by S g. Nesselrode Pudding. t» Dessert and Ices.TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 812 September, Plain Family Dinners son tart; cream ; fruit jelly ; prawns; lobster salad. Dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Flemish soup; turbot, garnished with fried smelts ; red mullet and Italian sauce. Entrees.—Tendrons de veau and trufiQes; lamb cutlets and sauce piquante. Second Course.—Loin of veal k la B€chamel; roast haunch of venison; braised ham; gi'ouse pie ; vege- tables. Third Course, — Roast hare ; plum tart; whipped cream ; punch jelly ; compete of damsons; marrow pudding; dessert. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Game 'soup ; crimped skate; slices of salmon h la geu6v€se. Entrees. — Fricasseed sweetbreads ; sa- voury rissoles. Second Course.—Sirloin of beef and horseradish sauce ; boiled leg of mutton and caper sauce; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast partridges; char- lotte Russe; apricots and rice; fruit jelly; .cabinet pudding; dessert. First Course. — Thick gravy soup; fillets of turbot k la crSme ; stewed eels. Entrees.—Vol-au-vent of lobster; salmi of grouse. Second Course.—Haunch of venison ; rump of beef h la Jardiniere ; hare, boned and larded, with mushrooms. Third Course.—Roast grouse; apricot blancmange ; compote of peaches; plum- tart ; custards; plum-pudding ; dessert. SEPTEMBEB, Plain Family Din- ners for. Sunday.—1. Julienno soup. 2. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, horse- radish sauce, French beans, and potatoes. 3. Greengage pudding, vanilla cream. Monday.—1. Crimped skate and crab sauco. 2. Cold beef and salad, small veal-and-ham pie. 3. Vegetable marrow and white sauce. Tuesday. — 1. Fried solos, melted butter. 2. Bowled fowls, parsley-and- butter; bacon-cheek, garnished with French beans ; beef rissoles, made from remains of cold beef. 3. Plum tart and cream. Wednesday.—1. Boiled round of beef, carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings; marrow on toast. 2. Baked damsons and rice. Thursday.—\. Vegetable soup, mado from liquor that beol was boiled in, 2. September, Things In Season Lamb cutlets and cucumbers, cold bo( and salad. 3. Apple pudding. Friday.—!. Baked soles. 2. Bubble and-squeak, made from cold beef ; vet cutlets and rolled bacon. 3. Damson tan Saturday.—1. Irish stew, rump-sleak and oyster-sauce. 2. Somersetshir dumplings. Simday.—1. Fried filleted soles an' anchovy sauce. 2. Roast log of mutton brown onion sauce, French beans, an< potatoes; half calfs head, tongue, an< brains. 3. Plum-tart; custards, in glasses Monday.—1. Vegetable-marrow soup 2. Calf's head h. la maltre d'hCtel, fron remains of cold head; boiled brisket o beef and vegetables. 3. Stewed frui and baked rice pudding. Tuesday.—1. Roast fowls and water cresses; boiled bacon, garnished witl tufts of cauliflower; hashed mutton, fron remains of mutton of Sunday. 2. Bakec plum-pudding. Wednesday.—1. Roiled knuckle of vea and rice, turnips, potatoes; small ham garnished with French beans. 2. Baked api^le pudding. Thursday.—1. Brill and shrimp sauce 2. Roast hare, gravy, and red-currant jelly; mutton cutlets and mashed po tatoes. 3. Scalloped oysters, instead of pudding. Friday. — 1. Small roast loin of mutton ; the remains of hare, jugged vegetable marrow and potatoes, 2. Damson pudding. Saturday.—1. Rump-steaks, broiled and oyster-sauce, mashed potatoes vcal-and-ham pie,—the ham may be cut from that boiled on Wednesday, if not all eaten cold for breakfast 2. Lemon pudding. SEPTEMBER, Things in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp, cod, cols, flounders, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate, soles, turbot, whiting, whitebait. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veaU Poultry. — Chickens, ducks, fowls gecsc, larks, pigeons, pullets, rabbits teal, turkeys. Uaine. —Blackcock, buck venison, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants. Vegetables. — Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbage sprouts, caiTots, celery, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, pease, potatoes, salads, sea-kalo, sprouts, toma- toes, turnips, vegctablo marrow^-* various herbs.«Asparagus. •Lamb Cutlets and Green Peas. S'l^eet Omelette hux Confit, ures. Caiilifloivcr. iVicaudeau of Veal. Vol-au-VcntTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 313 Shad, to Dress Fniit.—Bullaces, damsons, figs, fil- berts, grapes, melons, morella cherries, mulberries, nectarines, peaches, pears, plums, quinces, walnuts. SHAD, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 shad, oil, pepper, and salt." Mode.—Scale, empty and wash the fish carefully, and make two or three incisions across the back. Season it with pepper and salt, and let it remain in oil for h hour. Broil it on both sides over a clear fire, and serve with caper sauce. This fish is much esteemed by the French, and by them is considered excellent. Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average cost. —Seldom bought. Seasonable from April to Juno. SHEEP'S BRAINS, en Matelote (an Entr6e). Ingredients.—6 sheep's brains, vinegar, salt, a few slices of bacon, 1 small onion, 2 cloves, a small bunch of parsley, suffi- cient stock or weak broth to cover the brains, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, matelote sauce. jyocZe.—Detach the brains from the head without breaking them, and put them into a pan of warm water; remove the skin,' and let them remain for two hours. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, add a little vinegar and salt, and put in the brains. When they are quite firm, take them out and put them into very cold water. Place 2 or 3 slices of bacon in a stewpan, put in tho brains, the onion stuck with 2 cloves, the pai-sley, and a good sea- soning of pepper and salt; cover with stock, or weak broth, and boil them gently for about 25 minutes. Have ready some crotitons; arrange these in tho dish alternately with the brains, and cover with a matelote sauce, to which has been added the above propor- tion of lemon-juice. 5r*?52e.—25 minutes. Average cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonalle at any time. SHEEP'S FEET or TROTTERS (Soyer's Recipe). Ingredients.—12 feet, J lb. of beef or mutton suet, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 2 bay- leaves, 2 sprigs of thymo, 1 oz. of salt, i oz. of pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2^ quarts of water, | lb. of fresh butter, 1 tcaspoonful of salt, 1 tcaspoon- ful of flour, I teaspoonful of pepper, a Shortbread, Scotch little grated nutmeg, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 gill of milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Have the feet cleaned, and the long bone extracted from them. Put the suet into a stewpan, with tho onions and carrot sliced, the bay-leaves, thyme, salt, and pepper, and let theso simmer for 5 minutes. Add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour and the water, and keep stirring till it boils; then put in the feet. Let these simmer for 8 hours, or until perfectly tender, and take them and lay them on a sieve. Mix together, on a piate, with the back of a spoon, butter, salt, flour (1 teaspoonful), pep- per, nutmeg, and lemon-juice as above, and put the feet, with a gill of milk, into a stewpan. When very hot, add the butter, &c., and stir continually till melted. Now mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 5 tablespoonfuls of milk ; stir this to the other ingredients, keep moving the pan over the fire continually for a minute or two, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. Sei've in a very hot dish, and garnish with crotl- tons, or sippets of toasted bread. Time, —3 houi'S. Average cost, Is. Qd. Stiff- cient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SHEEP'S HEAD. Ingredients.—1 sheep's head, suffi- cient water to cover it, 8 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 or 3 parsnips, 3 onions, a small bunch of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, | lb. of Scotch oatmeal. Mode.—Clean the head well, and let it soak in warm water for 2 hours, to get rid of the blood ; put it into a saucepan, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils, add tho vegetables, peeled and sliced, and the remaining ingredients; before adding the oatmeal, mix it to a smooth batter with a little of the liquor. Keep stirring till it boils up; then shut tho saucepan closely, and lot it stew gently for Ih or 2 hours. It may be thickened with I'ice or barley, but oatmeal is pre- ferable. Time.—1.^ to 2 hours. Average cost, 8d. each. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. SHORTBREAD, Scotch. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, J lb. of pounded loaf sugar, ^ oz. of caraway seeds, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, a few strips of candied orauge pcol.314 THE CICTIONAUY OF COOKER?. Shrimp Sauce Mode.—Boat tho butter to a cream, gradually dredge iu the flour, and add the sugar, caraway seeds, and sweet almonds, which should be blanched and cut into small pieces. Work the paste until it. is quite smooth, and divide it into six ijieces. Put each cake on a separate piece of paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about an SHOniBEEAD. inch, and pincli it upon all sides. Prick it well, and ornament with one or two strips of candied orange-peel. Put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from 25 to 30 minutes, fivie.—25 to 30 minutes. Averacje cost, for this quan- tity, 2s. Sufficient to make 6 cakes. Seasonable at any time. JVote.—Where the flavour of the cara- way seeds is disliked, omit them, and add rather a larger proportion of can- died peel. SHRIMP SAUCE, for Various Kinds of Fish. Ingredients.—\ pint of melted butter, J pint of picked shrimps, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Make the melted butter very smoothly, shell the shrimps (sufii- cient to make ^ pint when picked), and put them into the butter; season with cayenne, and let the sauce just simmer, but do not allow it to boil. When liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce may be added. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. SHBIMPS OB PBAWNS, to Boil. Ingredients.—^ lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Prawns should be very red, and have no spawn under the tii,il; much depends on their freshness ana the way in which they are cooked. Throw them into boiling water, salted as above, and keep them boiling for about 7 or 8 minutes. Shrimps should be done in the same way; but loss time must be allowed. It may easily be known when they are done by their changing colour. Care should be taken that they are not over-boiled, as tliey then become taste- less ftn4 indigestible. ^TiJ/ie.—Prawns, Skate, Boiled about 8 minutes; shrimps, about f5 minutes. Average cost, prawns, 2s. pei ■ lb. ; shrimps, 6d. per pint. SecuonabU i all the year. SHRIMPS OB PBAWNS, Bat-; tered. Ingredients.j-l pint of picked prawn* or shrimps, f pint of stock, thickenin. of butter and flour; salt, cayenne, anu nutmeg to taste. J/orfe. — Pick the prawns or shrimps, and put them in a stewpan with the stock ; add a thicken- ing of butter and flour; season, and simmer gently for 3 minutes. Serve on a dish garnished with fried bread or toasted sippets. Cream sauce may be substituted for the gravy. Tirae. — 3 minutes. Average cost for this quan-. tity. Is. id. SHRIMPS, Potted. Ingredients.—1 pint of shelled shrimps, , \ lb. of fresh butter, 1 blade of pounded: mace, cayenne to taste ; when liked, a little nutmeg. Mode.—Have ready a* pint of picked shrimps, and put them,, with the other ingredients, into a stew- • pan ; let them heat gradually in the. butter, but do not let it boil. Pour into, small pots, and when cold, cover with. melted butter, and carefully exclude tbes air. Time.—\ hour to soak in the butter.. Average cost for this quantity, 1*. 3tZ. SKATE, to choose. This fish should be chosen for its firm- • ness, breadth, and thickness, and should : have a creamy appearance. Wlien; crimped, it should not be kept longer- than a day or two, as all kinds of crimped • fish soon become sour. Thomback is* often substituted for skate, but is very. inferior in quality to the true skate. SKATE, Boiled. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gal- lon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and skin ■ the skate, lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it simmer very • gently till done; then dish it on a hot. napkin, and serve with shrimp, lobster, or caper sauce. Time.—According t-o size, from ^ to 1 hour. Average cost, id, ]jer lb. Seasonable from August to April.THE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKEHY. 315 Skate, Crimped SKATE, Crimped. Ingredients—I lb. of salt to each gallon of water. il/ocTe.—Clean, skin, and cut the fish into slices, which roll and tie round with string. Have ready some water highly salted, put in the fish, and boil till it is done. Drain well, remove the string, dish on a hot napkin, and serve with the same sauces as above. Skate should never be eaten out of season, as it is liable to produce diarrhoea and other diseases. It may be dished without a napkin, and the sauce poured over. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average cost, Ad. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. SKATE, With. Caper Sauco (bi la Fran?aise). Ingredients.—2 or 3 slices of skate, ^ pint of vinegar, 2 oz. of salt, h teaspoon- ful of pepper, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch' of parsley, 2 bay-leaves, 2 or 3 sprigs of thyme, sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Put in a fish-kettle all the above ingredients, and simmer the skate in them till tender. When it is done, skin it neatly, and pour over it some of the liquor in which it has been boiling. Drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour over it caper sauco, and send some of the latter to table in a tureen. Time.—h hour. Average cost, id. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. Note.—Skate may also be served with onion sauce, or parsley and butter. SKATE, Small, Fried. Ingredients.—Skate, sufficient vinegar to cover them, salt and pepper to taste, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, the juice of h lemon, hot dripping. Mode.—Cleanse the skate, lay them in a dish, with sufficient vinegar to cover them ; add the salt, pepper, onion, pars- ley, and lemon-juice, and let the fish remain in this pickle for J hour. Then drain them well, flour them, and fry of a nice brown, in hot dripping. They may be served either with or without sauce. Skate is not good if dressed too fresh, unless it is crimped; it should, therefore, be kept for a day, but not long enough to produce a disagreeable smell. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, id. per lb. Seasonable from Au- ^st to April. Snipes, to Dress J SMELTS. When good, this fish is of & fine silvery appearance, and when alive, their backs are of a dark brown shade, which, afcer death, fades to a light fawn. They ought to have a relreshing fra- grance, resembling that of a cucumber, SMELTS, to Bake. Ingredients.—12 smelts, bread-crumbs, I lb. of fresh butter, 2 blades of pounded mace; salt and cayenne to taste. Mode. —Wash, and dry the fish thoroughly in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them with fine bread-crumbs, and place little pieces of butter all over them. Season and bake for 15 minutes. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and gar- nish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Time.—| hour. Average cost, 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. Su£ia,ent for 6 persons. SMELTS, to Fry. Ingredients,—Egg and bread-cnimbs, a little flour ; boiling lard. Mode.— Smelts should be very fresh, and not washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip them in egg, and sprinkle over with very fine bread-crumbs, and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a nice pale brown, and be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before the tire on a drainer, and serve with plain melted butter. This fish is often used as a garnishing. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost, 2s. per dozen. Seasonuble irom October to May. SNIPES, to Dress. Ingredients. — Snipes, butter, flour, toast. Mode.—These, like woodcocks, should be dressed without being drawn. Pluck, and wipe them outside, and trass them with the head under the wing, having previously skinned that and the neck. Twist the legs at the first joint, J press the feefi — t^^^^^^ and pass a skewer ^— and the body. BOAST SNIPE. pjacQ ^ skewer, tie them on to the jack or spit, and roast before a clear fire for aboubTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 816 Snipes, to Carve SHIPE. i hour. Put somo pieces of buttered toast into the dripping-pan to catcli the trails; flour and froth the birds nicely, dish tho pieces of toast with the snipes on them, and pour round, but not over them, a little good brown gravy. They should bo sent to table very hot and expeditiously, or they will not bo worth eating. Tme.—About ^ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. the brace. Sufficient.— 4 for a dish. &easomUe from November to February, Note.—Ortolans are trussed and dressed in the same manner. SNIPES, to Carve. One of these small but delicious birds may be given, whole, to a gentleman; but, in helping a lady, it will be better to cut them quite through the centre, from 1 to 2, completely dividing them into equal and like portions, and put only one half on the plate. SNOW-CAKE. Ingredients.—| lb. of ious-les-mois, i lb. of white pounded sugar, ^ lb. of fresh or washed salt butter, 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; then add the egg, previously well beaten, and then the other ingredients ; if the mixture is not light, add another egg, and beat for ^ hour, until it turns white and light. Line a flat tin, with raised edges, with a sheet of buttered paper; pour in the cake, and put it into the oven. It must be rather slow, and tho cake not allowed to brown at all. If the oven is properly heated, 1 to 1^ hour will be found long enough to bake it. Let it cool a few minutes, then with a clean sharp knife cut it into small square pieces, which should be gently removed to a large flat dish to cool before putting away. This will keep for several weeks. Time. —1 to 1,^ hour. Average cost, Is. 3d. Seasonable at any time. SNOW-CAKE (a genuine Scotcti Kecipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of arrowroot, J lb. of pounded white sugar, ^ lb. of butter, the whites of 6 eggs ; flavouring to taste, of essence of almonds, or vanilla, or lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir ia the sugar and aiTowroot gradually, at the same time beating tho Soda-Cako mixture. Whisk the whites of the eg to a stiS" froth, add them to the other i gi-odients, and beat well for 20 minute Put in whichever of tho above flavoi ings may bo preferred ; pour tho ca into a buttered moulder tm, and bake in a moderate oven from 1 to 1^ hoi Time.—1 to li hour. Average cost, wi tho best Bermuda arrowroot, 4«. 6c< with St, Vincent ditto, 2s. 9d. Sv.fficie to make a moderate-sized cake, ^easo able at any time, SODA-BISCUITS, Ingredients.—1 lb, of flour, ^ lb, pounded loaf sugar, {lb. of fresh buttt 2 eggs, 1 small tc-aspoonful of carbona of soda. Mode.—P\xi the flour (whi' should be perfectly dry) into a basil rub in the butter, add the sugar, ai. mix these ingredients well togethe Whisk the eggs, stir them into tt mixture, and beat it well, until ever- thing is well incorporated. Quickly si in the soda, roll the paste out until it about ^ inch thick, cut it into smt round cakes with a tin cutter, and baV't them from 12 to 18 minutes in rather- brisk oven. After the soda is adde great expedition is necessary in roUir and cutting out the paste, and in puttii the biscuits immediately into the ove or they will be hea-vy. Time.—12 to '. minutes. Average cost, \s. Sv.fficient make about 3 dozen cakes. Seaso7ial at any time. SODA-BBEAD. Ingredients.—To evei-y 2 lbs. of floi allow 1 teaspoonful of tartaric acid, 1 te spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of ca bonate of soda, 2 breakfast-cupfuls cold milk. Mode.—Let the tartaric ac and salt be reduced to tho finest possib powder; then mix them well with tl flour. Dissolve the soda in the mill and pour it several times from one bas: to another, before adding it to tho flou Work the whole quickly into a ligl dough, divide it into 2 loaves, and pt them into a well-heated oven imm diately, and bake for an hour. Soi milk or buttermilk may bo used, b» then a little less acid will bo neede< Time,—1 hour. SODA-CAKE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, 1 lb flour, J lb. of currants, ^ lb. of (THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 317 Sole or Cod Pie Bugar, 1 teacupf ul of milk, 3 eggs, 1 tea- Bpoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.— Kub the butter into the flour, add the currants and sugar, and mix these ingre- dients well together. Whisk the eggs well, stir them to the flour, &c., with the milk, in which the soda should be pre- viously dissolved, and beat the whole up together with a wooden spoon or beater. Divide the dough into two pieces, put them into buttered moulds or cake-tins, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The mixture must be extremely well beaten up, and not allowed to stand after the soda is add&d to it, but must be placed in the oven immediately. Great care must also be taken that the cakea are quite done through, which may be ascertained by thrusting a knife into the middle of them : if the blade looks bright when withdrawn, they are done. If the tops acquire too much colour before the inside is sufficiently baked, cover them over with a piece of clean white paper, to prevent them from burning. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient to make 2 small cakes. Seasonable at any time. SOLE OR COD PIE. Ingredients.—The remains of cold boiled Bole or cod, seasoning to taste of pepper. Bait, and pounded mace, 1 dozen oystei's to each lb. of fish, 3 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 1 teacupful of ci-eam thick- ened with flour, puff paste. Mode.— Clear the fish from the bones, lay it in a pie-dish, and between each layer put a few oysters and a little seasoning; add the stock, and, when liked, a small quan- tity of butter; cover with puflf paste, and bake for i hour. Boil the cream with sufficient flour to thicken it; pour in the pie, and serve. Time.—^ hour. Average cost for this quantity, lO"^. Sufficient lor 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SOLES, to Choose. This fish should bo both thick and firm. If the skin is difficult to be taken off, and the tiesh looks grey, it is good, SOLES, Baked. Ingredients.—2 soles, \ lb. of butter, egg, and bread-crumbs, minced parsley, 1 glass of sherry, lemon-juice ; cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Cle&n, skin, and well wash the fish, and dry thorn Soles, Filleted, I'ltalienne thoroughly in a cloth. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread- crumbs mixed with a little minced pars- ley, lay them in a large flat baking-dish, white side uppermost; or if it will not hold the two soles, they may each be laid on a dish by itself; but they must not be put one on the top of the other. Melt the butter, and pour it over the whole, and bake for 20 minutes. Talio a portion of the gravy that flows from the fish, add the wine, lemon-juice, and seasoning, give it one boil, skim, pour it under the fish, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Is. to 2s. per pair. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- sonahle at any time. SOLES, Boiled. Ingredients. —^ lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and wash the fish carefully, cut off the fins, but do not skin it. Lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufiicient cold water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it gra- dually come to a boO, and keep it sim- mering for a few minutes, according to the size of the fish. Dish it on a hot napkin after well draining it, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Shrimp, or lobster sauce, and plain melted butter, are usually sent to table with this dish. Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes for a middling-sized sole. Average cost. Is. to 2s. per pair. Sufficient.—1 mid- dling-sized sole for two' persons, SecL' sonahle at any time, SOLES, BoUed or Fried, to Help. The usual way of helping this fish is to cut it right through, bone and all, distributing it in nice and not too large pieces. A moderately-sized sole will be sufficient for three slices; namely, tho head, middle, and tail. The guests should be asked which of these they prefer. A small one will only give two slices. If the sole is very largo, the upper side may be raised from the bono, and then divided into pieces ; and tho under side afterwards served in the same way. _ In helping Filleted Soles, one fillet ia given to each person, SOLES, FiUeted, ft, I'ltaUenno. Ingredients. —2 solos; salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste; egg and318 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Soles, Fricasseed bread-crumbs, butter, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Skin, and carefully wash the soles, separate the meat from the bone, and divide each fillet in two pieces. Brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and season- ing, and put them in a baking-dish. Place small pieces of butter over the whole, and bake for \ hour. "When they are nearly done, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve on a dish, - with Italian sance {see Sauces) pourwd over. Time.—^ horn*. Average cost, from Is. to 2s. per pair. Sufficient for 4 or P persons. Seasonable at anytime. Whiting may be dressed in the same mannor, and wUl be found very deli- cious. SOLES, Fricasseed. Ingredients.—2 middling-sized soles, 1 small one, ^ teaspoonful of chopped lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated bread ; salt, pep- per, and nutmeg to taste ; 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, ^ pint of good gravy, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine, cayenne and lemon-juice to taste. Mode.—Fry the soles of a nice brown, and drain them well from fat. Take all the meat from the small sole, chop it fine, and mix with it the lemon-peel, parsley, bread, and seasoning; work altogether, with the yolk of an egg and the butter; make this into small balls, and fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessertspo')n» ful of flour, add the port wine, cayemi*!^ and lemon-juice ; lay in the 2 soles and balls; let them simmer gently for 5 minutes; serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon. Time.—10 minutes to fry the soles. Average cost for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time.J SOLES, Fried Filleted. Soles for filleting should be largo, as the flesh can be more easily separated from the bones, and there is less waste. Skin and wash the fish, and i"aise the meat carefully from the bones, and di- vide it into nice handsome pieces. The more usual way is to roll the fillets, after dividing each one in two pieces, and either bind them round with twine, or run a small skewer through them. Brush over with egg, and cover with broad- crumbs; fry thorn as directed ia the Soles, -with. Mushrooms foregoing recipe, and garnish with fi; parsley and cut lemon. When a pre', dish is desired, this is by far the most c gant mode of dressing soles, as they much better than when fried whole. J stead of rolling the fillets, they may cut into square pieces, and arranged the shape of a pyramid on thp di- Time.—A.hout 10 minutes. Average co. from Is. to 2s. per pair. Sujficient, large soles for 6 persons. Seasonable ■ any time. SOLES, Fried, Ingredients.—2 middling-sized sole hot lard or clarified dripping, egg, a; bread-crumbs. Mode.—Skin and car fully wash the soles, and cut off the fii- wipe them very dry, and let them rem;, in the cloth until it is time to dress the:: Have ready some fine bread-crumbs a', beaten egg ; dredge the soles with a li'. ■ flour, brush them over with egg, a: cover with bread-crumbs. Put them i . a deep pan, with plenty of clarified drip: ping or lard (when the expense is not obi jected to, oil is still better) heated, ss that it may neither scorch the fish nc: make them sodden. When they are su: ! ficiently cooked on one side, turn ther: carefully, and brown them on the other.* they may be considered ready when thick smoke rises. Lift them out careo fully, and lay them before the fii'e on ; reversed sieve and soft paper, to absorH the fat. Particular attention should b paid to this, as nothing is more disagre€. able than greasy fish : this may be alway i avoided by dressing them in good timee and allowing a few minutes for them i:* get thoroughly crisp, and free from grease; moisture. Dish them on a hot napkina garnish with cut lemon and fried parsleyv and send them to table with shrimp saucj and plain melted butter. Time.—I'i minutes for large soles; less time fo < small ones. Average cost, from If. to 2** per pair. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons? Seaso7uible at any time. SOLES, with. Mushrooms. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 pint o water, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. salt, a littl lemon - juice, 2 middling - sized soles ■ Mode.—Cleanse the soles, but do no skin them, and lay them in a fish-kettle with the milk, water, butter, salt, an< lemon-juice. Bring them gradually t- boil, and let thorn simmer very gentl; (819 Soles, with. Cream Sauce till done, which will be in about 7 minutes. Take them up, drain them well on a cloth, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. (See Sauces.) Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SOLES, with Cream Sauce. Ingredients. — 2 soles; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste ; the juice of i lemon, salt and water, | pint of cream. ilode.—Skin, wash, and fillet the soles, and divide each fillet in 2 pieces; lay them in cold salt and water, which bring gradually to a boil. When the water boils, take out the fish, lay it in a deli- cately clean stewpan, and cover with the cream. Add the seasoning, simmer very gently for ten minutes, and, just before serving, put in the lemon-juice. The fillets may be rolled, and secured by means of a skewer; but this is not so economical a way of dressing them, as double the quantity of cream is required. Tims.—10 minutes in the cream. Ave- rage cost, from Is. to 2s. per pair. Svffi- cienl for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. This will be found a most delicate and delicious dish. SOUFFLE, to make. Ingredients.—3 heaped tablespoonfuls of potato-flour, rice-flour, arrowroot, or tapioca, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, sifted sugar to taste, \ saltspoonful of salt flavouring. Mode.—Mix the potato-flour, or which- ever one of the above ingredients is used, with a little of the milk; put it into a saucepan, with the, remainder of the milk, the butter, salt, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Stir those ingredients over the fire until the mixture thickens ; then take it off the fire, and let it cool a little. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat the latter, and stir them into the Sdufll^ batter. Now whisk the whites of BOTjiFL^-PAw. the eggs to the firmest possible froth, for on this depends the excellence of the dish ; stir them to the other in- gredients, and add a few drops of essence of any flavourin/^ that may be preferred; Soups, General Directions foi? such as vanilla, lemon, orange, ginger, &c. &c. Pour the batter into a soufi3€- dish, put it immediately into the oven, and bake for about ^ hour; then take it out, put the dish into another more ornamental one, such as is made for the purpose; hold a salamander or hot shovel over the soufH€, strew it with sifted sugar, and send it instantly to table. The secret of making a soufilS well, is to have the eggs well whisked, but particularly the whites, the oven not too hot, and to send it to table the moment it comes from the oven. If the souffle be ever so well made, and it is allowed to stand before being sent to table, its appearance and goodness will be entirely spoiled. Souffles may be fla- voured in various ways, but must be named accordingly. Vanilla is one of the most delicate and recherche flavourings that can be used for this very fashionable dish. Time.—About ^ hour in the oven; 2 or 3 minutes to hold the salamander over. Average co.it, Is. Snfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SOUPS, General Directions for Making. Lean, juicy Beef, Mutton, and Veal form the basis of all good soups ; therefore it is advisable to procure those pieces which afford the richest succu- lence, and such as are fresh-killed.' Stale meat renders soups bad, and fat is not well adapted for making them. The principal art in composing good rich soup is so to proportion the several ingredients that the flavour of one shall not predominate over another, and that all the articles of which it is composed shall form an agreeable whole. Care must be taken that the roots and herbs are perfectly well cleaned, and that the water is proportioned to the quantity of meat and other ingredients, allowing a quart of water to a pound of moat for soups, and half that quantity for gravies. In making soups or gravies, gentle stew- ing or simmering is absolutely necessary. It may be remarked, moreover, that a really good soup can never be made but in a well-closed vessel, although, perhaps, greater wholesomeness is obtained by an occasional exposure to the air. Soups will, in general, take from four to six hours doing, and are imich better i^repared the day before they are wanted. When the Bo'up is cold, the fat may be easilyTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 320 Soups, General Directions for and completely removed; and in pouring it off, care must bo taken not to disturb the Ecttlings at tlio bottom of tho vessel, which aro so fine that they will escape through a sieve. A very fine hair-sievo or cloth is the best strainer; and if the soup is strained while it is hot, let tho tamis or cloth bo previously soaked in cold water. Clear soups must be per- fectly transparent, and thickened soups about the consistency of cream. To obtain a really clear and transparent soup, it is requisite to continue skimming tho liquor until there is not a particle of scum remaining, this being commenced immediately after tho water is added to the meat. To thicken and give body to soups and gravies, potato-mucilage, arrowroot, bread-raspings, isinglass, flour and butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal aro used. A pieco of boiled beef pounded to a pulp, with a bit of butter and flour, and rubbed through a sieve, and gradually incorporated with the soup, will bo found an excellent addition. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot weather, they should be warmed up every day, put into fresh-scalded pans or tureens, and placed in a cool larder. In temperate weather, every other day may be suflicient. Stock made from meat only keeps good longer than that boiled with vegetables, the latter being liable to turn the mixture sour, par- ticularly in very warm weather. Vauious Herbs and Vegetables are required for the purpose of making soups and gravies. Of these the principal are,— Scotch barley, pearl barley, wheat flour, oatmeal, bread-raspings, pease, beans, rice, vermicelli, macaroni, isinglass, po- tato-mucilage, mushroom or mushroom- ketchup, champignons, parsnips, carrots, beetroot, turnips, garlic, shalots, and onions. Sliced onions, fried with butter and flour till they are browned, and then rubbed through a sieve, are excellent to heighten tho colour and flavour of brown soups and sauces, and form the basis of many of tho fine relishes furnished by tho cook. The older and drier tho onion, the stronger will be its flavour. Leeks, cucumber, or burnct vinegar; celery or celery seed pounded. The latter, though equally strong, does not impart tho deli- cate sweetness of tlio fresh vegetable; and when used as a substitute, its flavour should be corrected by tho addition of a bit of sugar. Crcss-sccd, parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. ( thyme, knotted marjoram, sa;- mint, winter savoury, and basil. . fresh green basil is seldom to bo p? cured, and its fine flavour is soon lo the best way of preserving tho extract by pouring wine on tho fresh leaves. For the Seasoning of Soups, b:i leaves, tomato, tarragon, chervil, burnr. allspice, cinnamon, ginger, nutmc, clove, maco, black and white pepper, c sence of anchovy, lemon peel and juic and Seville orange juice, are all tuket Tho latter imparts a finer flavour tha the lemon, and the acid is mu milder. These materials, with wii. mushroom ketchup, Harvey's sauc tomato sauce, combined in various pr portions, are, with other ingredient! manipulated into an almost endless vr riety of excellent soups and gravic Soups, which are intended to constitir the principal part of a meal, certair . ought not to be flavoured like sauc^ which are only designed to give a reli.-, to some particular dish. SOXTP-MAKING, the Chemistr and Economy of. Stock being the basis of all me- soups, and, also, of all the princii- sauces, it is essential to the success ^ these culinary operations, to know th.. most comp.ete and economical methotx of extractin/, from a certain quantit;] of meat, the best possible stock, or broth.: The theory and philosophy of this proccs-s wo will, therefore, explain, and then proceed to show the practical course be adopted. As all meat is principally composed o. fibres, fat, gelatine, osmazome, anc: albumen, it is requisite to know that th' < fibres are inseparable, constituting almos- all that remains of the meat after it ha^ undergone a long boiling. Fat is dissolved by boiling; but as i i is contained in cells covered by a verj? fine membrane, which never dissolves^ a portion of it always adheres to th( i fibres. Tho other portion rises to the J surface of the stock, and is that whicbi has escaped from tho cells which were* not whole, or which have burst by boiling. Gelatine is soluble; it is the basis< and tho nutritious portion of the stock... When there is an abundance of it, it; causes the stock, when cold, to become J a jelly. Osmazome is soluble even when coJJaTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 321 Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. of and is that part of the meat which gives flavour and perfume to the stock. The flesh of old animals contains more osma- zome than that of young ones. Brown meats contain more than white, and the former make the stock more fragrant. By roasting meat, the osmazome appears to acquire higher properties; so, by putting the remains of roast meats into your stock-pot, you obtain a better flavour. Albumen is of the nature of the white of eggs; it can be dissolved in cold or tepid water, but coagulates when it is put into water not quite at the boiling- point. From this property in albumen, it is evident that if the meat is put into the stock-pot when the water boils, or after this is made to boil up quickly, the albumen, in both cases, hardens. In the first it rises to the surface, in the second it remains in the meat, but in both it prevents the gelatine and osma- zome from dissolving; and hence a thin and tasteless stock will be obtained. It ought to be known, too, that the coagu- lation of the albumen in the meat always takes place, more or less, according to the size of the piece, as the parts farthest from the surface always acquire that degree of heat which congeals it before entirely dissolving it. Bones ought always to form a com- ponent part of the stock-pot. They are composed of an earthy substance,—to which they owe their solidity,—of gela- tine, and a fatty fluid, something like marrow. Tioo ounces of them contain as much gelantine as one pound of meat; but in them, this is so incased in the earthy substance, that boiling-water can dissolve only the surface of whole bones. By breaking them, however, you can dissolve more, because you multiply their surfaces; and by reducing them to pow- der or paste, you can dissolve them entirely; but you must not grind them dry. We have said that gelatine forms the basis of stock; but this, though very nourishing, is entirely without taste; «.nd to make the stock savoury, it must contain osmazome Of tliis, bones do not contain a particle ; and that is the reason why stock made entirely of them *» not liked ; but when you add meat to the broken or pulverized bones, the osmazomo contained in it makes the stock ufficiently savoury . In concluding this part of our subject, the following condensed hints and direc- Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. of tions should be attended to in the economy of soup-making:— Beep makes the best Stock ; veal stock has less colour and taste ; whilst mutton sometimes gives it a tallowy smeU, far from agreeable, unless the meat has been previously roasted oi broiled. Fowls add very little to the flavour of stock, unless they be old and fat. Pigeons, when they are old, add the most flavour to it; and a rabbit or partridge is also a great improvement. From the freshest meat the best stock ia obtained. Ip THE Meat be Boiled solely to make stock, it must be c it up into the smallest possible pieces ; l ut, generally speaking, if it is desii-ed to have good stock and a piece of savoury meat as well, it is necessary to put a rather large piece into the stock-pot, say suffi- cient for two or three days, during which time the stock will keep well in all weathers. Choose the freshest meat, and have it cut as thick as possible; for if it is a thin, flat piece, it will not look well, stnd will be very soon spoiled by the boiling. Never wash Meat, as it deprives its surface of all its juices ; separate it from the bones, and tie it round with tape, so that its shape may be preserved, then put it into the stock-pot, and for each pound of meat, let there be one pint of water; press it down with the hand, to allow the air, which it contains, to escape, and which often raises it to the top of the water. Put the Stock-pot on a Gentle Fire, so that it may heat gradually. The albumen will first dissolve, afterwards coagulate; and as it is in this state lighter than the liquid, it will rise to the sur- face, bringing with it all its impurities. It is this which makes the scum. Tho rising of the hardened albumen has the same oflect in clarifying stock as the white of eggs; and, as a rule, it may be said that the more scum there is, the clearer will be the stock. Always take care that the fire is very regular. Remove the Scum when it rises thickly, and do not let the stock boil, because then one portion of the scum will be dissolved, and the other go to tho bottom of the pot; thus rendering it very difficult to obtain a clear brcjh. If the fire is regular, it will not be ne- cossary to add cold water in order to mako tho scuip rise j but if the fire is too 11522 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. of large at first, it will then be necessary to do so. WuEN THE Stock is ■vn'ell Skimmed, autl begins to boil, put in salt and vege- tables, which to every 3 lbs. of meat should consist of three carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, a few leeks, and a little celery. You can add, according to taste, a iiieco' of cabbage, two or three cloves stuck in an onion, and a tomato. The latter gives a very rgreeable flavour to the stock. If burnt onion be added, it ought, according to the advice of a famous French chef, to be tied in a little bag : without this precaution, the colour of the stock is liable to be clouded. By Tnis TIME wo will now suppose that you have chopped the bones which were separated from the meat, and those which were left from the roast meat of the day before. Eemember, as was before pointed out, that the more these are broken, the more gelatine you will have. The best way to break them up is to pound them roughly in an iron mortal-, adding, from time to time, a little water, to prevent them getting heated. It is a great saving thus to make use of the bones of meat, which, in too many English families, we fear, are entirely wasted ; for it is certain, as previously stated, that two ounces of bone contain as much gelatine (which is the nutritive portion of stock) as one pound of meat. In their broken state tie them up in a bag, and put them in the stock-pot; adding the gristly pai-ts of cold moat, and trimmings, which can be used for no other purpose. If, to make up the weight, you have received from the butcher a piece of mutton or veal, broil it slightly over a clear firo before putting it in the stock-pot, and bo very careful that it docs not contract the least taste of being smoked or burnt. Add now the Vegetables, which, to n certain extent, will stop the boiling of the slock. Wait, therefore, till it simmers well up again, then draw it to the side of the fire, and keep it gently simmering till it is served, preserving, as before said, your firo always tho same. Cover tho stock-put well, to prevent evaporation ; do not fill it up, even if you take out a little stock, unless tho meat is exposed ; in which ca.se a little boiling- water may be added, but only enough to cover it. After six hours' slow and gentle simmering, the stock /s done; and it should I'ot bo continued on the Soup, Brilla fire longer than is necessary, or it wi tend to insipidity. Note.—It is on a good stock, oi fin good broth and sauce, that excellence i cookery depends. If tho preparati' of this basis of tho culinary art is i: trusted to negligent or ignorant persoi. and the stock is not well skimmed, b . indifferent results will bo obtaine<i h i Tho stock will never be clear; and whei(^ it is obliged to be clarified, it is deterici rated both in quality and flavour. the proper management of the st<.)ck an immense deal of trouble is saved inasmuch as one stock, in a small dinneii serves for all purposes. Above things, tho greatest economy, consisten with excellence, should be practised and the price of everything which ente^ the kitchen 'correctly ascertained. Tj| theory of this part of Household Mana mcnt may appear trifling, but its pr tice is extensive, and therefore itrequL the best attention. SOUP, Baked. Ingredients—Wh. of any kind of meat' any 'trimmings or odd pieces ; 2 ouionsj 2 carrots, 2 oz. of rice, 1 pint of spKi peas, pepper and salt to taste, 4 qu of water. J/orfe.—Cut the meat am vegetables in slices, add to them the rici antl peas, season with pepper and salf. Put the whole in a jar, fill up with thr water, cover very closely, and bake fc 4 hours. Tmc—4 hours. Average cos. 2hl. per quart. Seasonable at any time* Hvfficicni for 10 or 12 persons. _This will be found a verycbea' and wholesome soup, and will be conver icnt in those cases where baking is mor easily performed than boihng. SOUP, Brilla, Iin/redi'cnis.- 4 lbs. of shin of l)ec) 3 eur'rots, 2tuniiiis,alarge.';prigof thymt 2 onions, 1 head of celery, Sidt an pepper to tattc, 4 quarts watei Mode.—Take the beef, cut off all tl. moat from tho bone, in nice .squar. pieces, and boil tho bono for 4 hours Strain tho liquor, let it cool, and tak off the fat; then put the pieces of m«i in tho cold liquor ; cut small the carrotf turnips, and celery; chop the onions add tiicm with the thyme and scasoninp. and simmer till tho meat is tender. J not brown enough, colour it with brcwO in--. Tme.—6 hours. Avcrogt cost 1 \323 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Soup, Cliaiitilly M. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 persons. SOUP, Chantilly. Ingredients.—1 quart of young green peas, a small bunch of parsley, 2 j'oung onions, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode. —Boil the peas till quite tender, with the parsley and onions ; then rub them through a sieve, and pour the stock to them. Do not let it boil after the peas are added, or you will spoil the colour. Serve very hot. Tme.—§ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficient for 8 persons. ^ote.—Cold peas pounded in a mortar, with a little stock added to them, make a very good soup in haste. SOUP, Calfs-head. Ingredients.—h of calf's head, 1 onion stuck with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet herbs, 2 blades of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, 6 oz. of rice-flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 3 quarts of white stock, or pot-liquor, or water. Mode.—Rub the head with salt, soak it for 6 hours, and clean it thoroughly, put it in the stewpan, and cover it with the stock, or pot-liquor, or water, adding the onion and sweet herbs. When well skimmed and boiled for 1.^ hour, take out the head, and skim and strain the soup. Mix the rice-floiu" with tho ketchup, thicken the soup with it, and limmer for 5 minutes. Now cut up the lead into pieces about two inches long, land simmer them in tho soup till the Imeat and fat are quite tendci*. Season •with white pepper and mace finely ifcoundcd, and serve very hot. AVhen [the calfs head is taken out of tho soup, Icover it up or it will discolour. Time.— |2i| hours. Average cost, Is. ^d. per quart, Jwith stock. Seasonable from May to lOctober. Sufficient for 10 persons. 1 Notf.—Force-meat balls can be added, land the soup may bo flavoured with a Aittle lemon-juice, or a glass of sherry or ^ladeira. The bones from tho head may M)e stewed down again, with a few fresh ■vegetables, and it will make a very good ftiommon stock. ■BOUP, h la Cantatrice. (An Excel- V lent Soup, very Beneficial for the ■ Voice.) Jj Ingredients.—3 oz. of sago, h pint of Iweam, tho yolks of ' -ggs, I'lump of Soup, a la Flamande sugar, and seasoning to taste, 1 bay-leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock.-— Mode.—Having washed the sago in boil- ing water, let it be gradually added to the nearly boiling stock. Simmer for ^ hour, when it should be well dissolved. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream; stir these quickly in the soup, and serve imme- diately. Do not let the soup boil, or.the eggs will curdle. Time.—40 minutes. Average cost. Is. &d. per quart. Season- able all the year. SufficieiU for 8 persons. Note.—This is a soup, the principal ingredients of which, sago and eggs, have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat. In various quantities, and in different preparations, these have been partaken of by the pi-in- cipal singers of the day, including the celebrated Swedish Nightingale, Jenny Lind, and, as they have always avowed, with considerable advantage to the voice, in singing. SOUP, h la Crecy, Ingredients.—4 carrots, 2 sliced onions, 1 cut lettuce, and chervil; 2 oz. butter, 1 pint of lentils, the crumbs of 2 French rolls, half a teacupful of rice, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode.—Put the vege- tables with the butter in the stewpan, and let them simmer 5 minutes; then add the lentils and 1 pint of the stock, and stew gently for half an hour. Now fill it up with the remainder of the stock, let it boil another hour, and put in the crumb of the rolls. When well soaked, rub all through a tammy. Have ready the rice boiled ; pour the soup over this, and serve. Tivie.—1| hour. Average cost, Is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. SOUP, h la Flamande (Flemish). Ingredients.—1 turnip, 1 small carrot, J head of celeiy, 6 green onions shred very fine, 1 lettuce cut small, chervil, | pint of asparagus cut small, ^ pint of peas, 2 oz. butter, the yo) ks of 4 eggs, h pint of cream, salt to taite, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Pat tho vegetables in tho butter to stew gently for an hour with a teacupful of stock; then add tho remainder of the stock, and simmer for another hour. Now beat tho yolks of the eggs well, mix with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve. Taktf the32i THE DTCTIOHAR!^ 01? COOKERt. Soup, a la Flamando Boup off the firo, put the eggs, &c., to it and keep stirring it well. Bring it almost to boiling point, but do not leave off stirring, or the eggs will curdle. Season with salt, and add the sugar. 7'ivie.— 2h hours. Average cost, Is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable from May to August. Suffi- cient for 8 persons. SOUP, h la Flamande (Flemish). Ingredients. — 5 onions, 5 heads of celery, 10 moderate-sized potatoes, 3 oz. butter, g pint of water, \ pint of cream, 2 quarts of stock. A/ode.—Slice the onions, celery, and potatoes, and put them with the butter and water into a stcwpan, and simmer for an hour. Then fill up the stewpan with stock, and boil gently till the potatoes are done, which will be in about an hour. Hub all through a tammy, and add the cream (previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in. Time.—2h hours. Average cost, Is. 4d. per quart. Seasonalle from September to May. Svfficient for 8 persons. Note.—This souid can be made with water instead of stock. SOUP, a Good Family. Ingredients.—Remains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, any cold pieces of meat or beef-bones, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 parsnip, 1 head of celery, 4 quarts of water, 5 tcacupful of rice ; salt and pepper to Taste. Mode.—Vut all the ingredients in a stewpan, and simmer gently for 4 hours, or until all the good- ness is drawn from the meat. Strain off the soup, and lot it stand to get cold. The kernels and soft parts of the tongue must bo saved. When the soup is wanted for use, skim off all the fat, put in the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of fresh carrot, turnip, and onion ; stew till the vege- tables are tender, and serve with toasted bread. Time. —5 hours. Average cost, Zd. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Svfficient for 12 persons. SOUP, Hessian. Ingredients.—llali an ox's head, 1 pint of split peas, 8 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 EotatocF, 6 onions, 1 head of celorj', 1 unch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of mace, a little all- spice, 4 cloves, tho crumb of a French roll, G quarts of water. J/y<!e.—Clean Soup, Prince of Wales's , ^ the head, rub it with salt and water, at: i' soak it for 5 hours in warm watc< Simmer it in the water till tender, p it into a pan and let it cool; skim off i, the fat; take out the head, and add tit vegetables cut up small, and the ipett which have been previously soak eel simmer them without tho meat, till the. » are done enough to pulp through a stevii » Put in the seasoning, with the pieces •. »■ meat cut up; give one boil, and serv^i v Time.—4 hours. Average coU, Gd. p(i i: quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficiet. 6 for 16 persons. • Note.—An excellent hash or ragoilt ca > :; be made by cutting up the nicest par: of the head, thickening and seasonin. more highly a little of the soup, ar;. adding a glass of port wine and 2 tabli-i spoonfuls of ketchup. SOUP, Portable. Ingredients. — 2 knuckles of veal, shins of beef, 1 large faggot of herbs,, bay-leaves, 2 heads of celery, 3 oniomis 3 carrots, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves, . teaspoonful of salt, sufBcient water tu. cover all the ingredients. Mode.—Takk the marrow from the bones ; put all thL( ingredients in a stock-pot, and simmec slowly for 12 hom-s, or more, if the mea.- be not done to rags ; strain it off, and pu ; it in a very cool place ; take off all th. fat, reduce the liquor in a shallow pan- by setting it over a sharp fire, but bi particular that it does not burn ; boil r t fast and uncovered for 8 hours, and kecj t it stirred. Put it into a deep dish, ani i set it by for a day. Have ready a stew pan of boiling water, place the dish ir: it, and keep it boiling; stir occasionally: and when the soup is thick and ropy, ii; is done. Form it into little cakes bj pouring a small quantity on to the botton . of cups or basins ; when cold, turn then out on a flannel to dry. Keep them fron: the air in tin canisters. Average cos> of this quantity, 16*. ^T^P^^ _goup can bo made in 5 minutes - with this, by dissolving a sm Jl piece, ^ about the size of a walnut, in a pint of warm water, and sviinering for 2 mi- nutes. Vermicelli, nincftroni, or other' Italian pastes, may bo added. SOUP, Prince of Wales's. Ingredients.—\2 turnips, 1 lump of' sugar, 2 spoonfuls of strong veal stock, sait and white pepper to taste, 2 q\mrt» ■'325 DiOTIONAfit OP COOKEHT. Soup, Hegency of very bright stock. Mode.—Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as possible, but very small. Put them in the stock, which must be very bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal stock and seasoning. Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling; moisten them with stock; put them into a tureen and pour the soup over without shaking, for fear of crumbling the bread, which would spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick. Time.—2 hours. Seasonable in the winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. SOUP, Hegency. Ingredients.—The bones and remains of any cold game such as of pheasants, partridges, &c.; 2 carrots, 2 small onions, 1 head of celery, 1 turnip, \ lb. of pearl barley, the yolks of 3 eggs boiled hard, { pint of cream, salt to taste, 2 quarts of medium or common stock. Mode.— Place the bones or remains of game in the stewpan, with the vegetables sliced ; pour over the stock, and simmer for 2 hours ; skim off all the fat, and strain it. Wash the barley, and boil it in 2 or 3 waters before putting it to the soup ; finish simmering in the soup, and when the barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks of the eggs. "When you have finished pounding, rub it through a clean tammy, add the cream, and salt if necessary; give one boil, and serve very hot, putting in the barley that was taken out first. Time.—2^ houi-s. Average cost, Is. per quart, if made with medium stock, or Qd. per quart, with common stock. Season- able from September to Mai'ch. Suffi- cient for 8 persons. SOUP, b, la Beine. Ingredients.—1 large fowl, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, the crumb of 1 \ French roll, i pint of cream, salt to taste, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 quarts of good whito veal stock. Mode.—JioW the fowl gently in the stock till quite tender, which will be in about an hour, or ratlier more; take out the fowl, pull the meat from the bones, and put it into a mortar with the almonds, and pound very fine. When beaten enough, put the meat back in the stock, with the crumb of the rolls, and lot it simmer for an hour; rub it through a tammy, add the sugar, h pint of cream that has boiled, and, if you Soup a la Solferino prefer, cut the crust of the roll into small round pieces, and po'or the soup over it, when you serve. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 2s. Id. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note. — All white soups should ba warmed in a vessel placed in another o/ boiling water, SOUP, h> la Reine (Economical). Ingredients. — Any remains of roast chickens, h teacupful of rice, salt and pepper to taste, 1 quart of stock. Mode. —Take all the white meat and pound it with the rice, which has been slightly cooked, but not too much. When it is all well pounded, dilute with the stock, and pass through a sieve. This soup should neither be too clear nor too thick. Time. —1 hour. Average cost, 'id. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—If stock is not at hand, put the chicken-bones in water, with an onion, caiTot, a few sweet herbs, a blade of mace, pepper and salt, and stew for 3 hours. SOUP, h la Solferino (Sardinian Recipe). Ingredients.—4 eggs, \ pint of cream, 2 oz. of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, a little flour to thicken, 2 quartjS of bouillon. Mode.—Beat the eggs, put them into a stewpan, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning; stir in as much flour as will bring it to the consistency of dough;, make it into balls, cither round or egg-shaped, and fry them in butter; put them in the tureen, and pour the boiling bouillon over them. Time.— 1 hour. A verage cost, Is. 3d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This recipe was communicated to the Editress by an English gentleman, who was present at the battle of Sol- ferino, on June 24, 1859, and who was requested by some of Victor Emmanuel's troops, on the day before the batttlo, to partake of a portion of their potage. Ho willingly enough consented, and found that these clever campaigners had made a palatable dish from very easily- procured materials. In sending the recipe for insertion in this work, he has. however. Anglicised, and somewhat^ ho thinks, improved it.32() THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERlf. Soup, Spring SOUP, Spring, or Potage Printa- nier. Ingredients.—^ a pint of green peas, if in season, a little chervil, 2 shredded lettuces, 2 onions, a very small bunch of parsley, 2 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pint of water, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of stock. Put in a clean stew- pan the chervil, lettuces, onions, parsley, and butter, to 1 pint of water, and let ' them simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper ; when done, strain off the vegetables, and j)ut two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, and at the moment of serving, add this, with the vegetables which you strained off, to the soup. Time.—^ of an hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable from May to October. Suffi- cient for 8 persons. SOUP, stew, Inqredients.—2 lbs. of beef, 5 onions, 5 tu mips, ^ lb. of rice, a large bunch of parsley, a few sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 2 quarts of water. Alode.—Cut the beef up in small pieces, add the other ngredients, and boil gently for 2^ hours. Oatmeal or potatoes would be a great improvement, yi'me. —2^ hours. Ave- rage cost, 6(1. per quart. Seasonahle in winter. Sufficient for 6 persons. SOUP, stew. Ingredients.—h lb. of beef, mutton, or poi-k ; i, pmt I f split peas, 4 turnips, 8 })Otatoes, 2 onions, 2 oz. of oatmeal or 3 oz. of rice, 2 quarts of water. Mode.— Cut the meat in small pieces, as also the vegetables, and add them, with the peas, to the water. Boil gentlj' for 3 hours ; thicken with the oatmeal, boil lor another hour, stirring all the time, antl season with pepper and salt. Time. —hours. Average cost, id. per quart. Seasonahle in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup maybe made of the liquor in wbicli tripe has been boiled, by adding vegetables, seasoning, rice, 6iO. SOUP, Stew, of Salt Meat. Ingredients.-- Auy pieces of salt beef or pork; say 2 lbs.; 4 carrots, 4 parsnips, 4 turnips, 4 potatoes, 1 cabbage, 2 oz. of oatmeal or ground rice, seasoning of salt ftU'l pepijcr, 2 quarts of water. Mode,— Soup, White Cut up the meat small, add the water' st- and let it simmer for 2^ hours. Now adt il the vegetables, cut in thin small slices- lia season, and boil for 1 hour. Thickei; with the oatmeal, and servo. Time.— 2 hours. Average cost, 3d. per quar^ j; without the meat. Seasonable in winter: ^ Sifficient for 6 persons. Note.—If rice is used instead of cat" •» meal, put it in with the vegetables. SOUP, Useful for Benevolent Pur.- ^ poses. Ingredients.—An ox-cheek, any piece:) of trimmings of beef, which may b( bought very cheaply (say 4 lbs.), a few bones, any pot-liquor the larder maj. furnish, \ peck of onions, 6 leeks, a largt j bunch of herbs, h lb. of celery (the out .' side pieces, or green tops, do very well) ; h, lb. of carrots, h lb. of turnips, ^ lb. ol f coarse brown sugar, h a pint of beer, U lbs. of common rice, or pearl barley ; ij. lb. of salt, 1 oz. of black pepper, a few^ raspings, 10 gallons of water. Mode.— Divide the meat in small pieces, breaks the bones, put them in a copper, withi the 10 gallons of water, and stew for: half an hour. Cut up the vegetables,-, put them in with the sugar and beer, audi boil for 4 hours. Two hours before thee soup is wanted, add the rice and rasp-- ings, and keep stirring till they are well i mixed in the soup, which simmer gently.. If the liquor boils away a little, fill up- with water. Time.—hours. Averagt- cost, \hd. per quart. SOUP, White. Ingredienti.—| lb. of sweet almonds, I lb. of cold veal or poultry, a thick slico of stale bread, a piece of fresh lemon- peel, 1 blade of mace, pounded, 3 pint of cream, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 quarts of white stock. Mode.— Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a paste, with a spoonful of water, and add to them the meat, which should be previously pounded with llio bread. Beat all together, and add tho lemon-peel, very finely choppeil, and tho mace. Pour tho boiling stoch. on tho whole, and simmer for an hour. Rub tho eggs in tho cream, put in tiio soup, bring it to a boil, and servo im- mediatelj\ Time.—\\ honr. Arrrage cost, Is. 6d. per qtiart. Sca.<!onable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—A more economical white soup may bo made by using common vealTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 1 ^27 Spinacli, to Boil BPINACH GARNISHED WITH CBOUTONS. stock, and thickening with rice, flour, and milk. Vermicelli should be served with it. Average cost, 5d. per quart. SPIWACH.to Boil (Englisli Mode), Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 oz. of pf butter, pepper to taste. Mode.—Pick the spinach carefully, and see that no stalks or weeds are left amongst it; wash it in several waters, and, to pre- vent it being gritty, act in the following manner:—Have ready two large pans or tubs iillod with water ; put the spinach into one of these, and thoroughly wash it; then, with the luinds, take out the spi- nach, and put it into the other tub of water (by this means all the grit will be left at the bottom of the tub) ; wash it again, and should it not be perfectly free from dirt, repeat the pro- cess. Put it into a very large saucepan, with about I pint of water, just sufficient to keep the spinach from burning, and the above proportion of salt. Press it down fre- quently with a wooden spoon, that it may be done equally; and when it has boiled for rather more than 10 minutes, or until it is perfectly tender, drain it in a colander, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it finely. Put the spinach into a clean stewpan, with the butter and a seasoning of pepper; stir the whole over the fire until quite hot; then put it on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spi- nach, 5 minutes to warm with the butter. Average cost tor the above quantity, 8c?, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable. —Spring spinach from March to July; winter sp.inach from November to March. Note.—Grated nutmeg, pounded mace, or lemon-juice may also be added to enrich the flavour; and poached eggs are also frequently served with spinach: they should be placed on the top of it, and it should bo garnished with sippets of toasted bread. SPINACH dressed with. Cream, b. la Francjaise. Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz. of b'ltter, 8 tablespoonfals of cream, 1 small toa- «poonful of poundeo^ sugar, a vor^ Uttle Spinach-Green grated nutmeg. Mode.—Boil and drain the spinach; chop it tine, and put it into a stewpan with the butter ; stir it over a gentle fire, and, when the butter has dried away, add the remaining ingre- dients, and simmer for about 5 minutes. Previously to pouring in the cream, boil it first, in case it should curdlo. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish either with sippets of toasted bread or leaves of puff- paste. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to stew with the cream. Average cost for the above quan- tity, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July ; winter spinach from November to March. SPITsTACH, French Mode of Dress- ing. Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz, of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 8 tablespoonfuls of good gravy ; when liked, a vexy little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Pick, wash, and boil the spinach, and when tender, drain and squeeze it perfectly dry from the water that hangs about it. Chop it very fine, put the butter into a stewpan, and lay the spinach over that; stir it over a gentle fire, and dredge in the flour. Add the gravy, and let it boil quickly for a few minutes, that it may not discclour. When the flavoiu* of nut- meg is liked, grate some to the spinach, and when thoroughly hot, and the gravy has djied away a little, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to simmer in the gravy. Average cost for the above quan- tity, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July; winter spinach from October to February. Note.—For an entremets or second- course diih, spinach dressed by the above recipe may be pressed into a hot mould ; it should then be turned out quicSly, and served immediately. SPIlSrACH-GREElSr, for Colouring various Dishes. Ingredients.—2 handfuls of spinach. Mode.—Pick and wash the spinach free from dirt, and pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice; then press it through a hair slave, and put the juica into a sniall stewpan or jar. Place tliiar 828 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Spinacli Soup in a bain mario, or saucepan of boiling water, and lot it sot. Watch it closely, as it sliould not boil; and, as soon as it is done, lay it in a sieve, so that all tho water may drain from it, and the green will then be ready for colouring. If made according to this recipe, the spinach-green will be found far superior to that boiled in the ordinary way. SPINACH SOUP (French Hecipe). Ingredients. — As much spinach as, when boiled, will half fill a vegetable- dish, 2 quarts of very clear medium stock. Mode.—Make the cooked spinach into balls the size of an egg, and slip them into the soup-tureen. This is a very elegant soup, the green of the spinach forming a pretty contrast to the brown gravy. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable from October to June, SPONGE-CAKE. Ingredients.—The weight of 8 eggs in pounded loaf sugar, the weight of 5 in flour, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon- ful of brandy. Mode.—Put the eggs into one side of the scale, and take the weight of 8 in pounded loaf sugar, and the weight of 5 in good dry flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former, put them into a sauce- pan with the sugar, and let them remain over the fire untO milh-%oarni, keeping them well stirred. Then put them into a basin, add the grated lemon-rind mixed with the brandy, and stir these well together, dredging in the flour very gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, stir them to the flour, &c., and boat tho cake well for ^ hour. Put it into a buttered mould strewn with a little fine-sifted sugar, and balce the cake in a quick oven for 1A hour. Care must be taken that it is'put into the oven immediately, or it will not be light. The flavouring of this cake may be varied by adding a few drops of essence of al- monds instead of the grated lemon-rind. Time.—\}i hour. Average cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any tim'»> SPONGE-CIKE. Sprats SPONGE-CAKE, Ingredients.—h lb. of loaf su^rar, n quite I pint of water, 5 eggs, 1 lemon, lb. of flour, ^ teaspoonful of carbonate soda. Mode.—Boil the sugar and w t together until they form a thick syiui let it cool a little, then pour it to tl eggs, which should be previously w( whisked; and after the eggs and syri are mixed together, continue be tii them for a few minutes. Grate ti lemon-rind, mix the carbonate of so< with the flour, and stir these lightl ' the other ingredients; then add lemon-juice, and, when the whole thoroughly mixed, pouritinto abutten mould, and bake in rather a quick ov( for rather more than 1 hour. The r mains of sponge or Savoy cakes answ very well for trifles, light puddings, &c and a very stale one (if not mould makes an excellent tipsy cake. Time. Rather more than 1 hoiu\ Average co. lOd. Sufficient to make 1 cake. Seaso able at any time, SPONGE-CAKES, SmalL Ingredients.—The weight of 5 eggs flour, the weight of 8 in pounded lo sugar ; flavouring to taste. Mode.—Ih the flo\ir be perfectly dry, and the sugc well pounded and sifted. Separate w: whites from the yolks of the eggs, ai.:i beat the latter up with the sugar ; th( whisk the whites until they becon rather stifle, and mix them with the yolli^ but do not stir them more than is ju necessary to mingle the ingredients wt together. Dredge in the flour by d grees, add tho flavovtring; butter tl: tins well, pour in tho batter, sift a litt sugar over the calces, and bake them rather a quick oven, but do not allc them to take too much coloar, as thr> should be rather pale. Remove the: from the tins before they get cold, at: turn them on their faces, where let the. remain until quite cold, when store tho away in a closed tin canister or wid mouthed glass bottle. Tivte.—10 to "' minutes in a quick oven. Avei-age cof\ Id, each. Seasonable at any time. SPKATS. Sprats should be cooked very frosiJ which can bo ascertained by their brigbi and sparkling eyes. Wipe them dry? fasten them in rows bv a skewer n"j(THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 329 Sprats, Dried through the eyes ; dredge with flour, and broil them on a gridiron over a nice clear fire. The gridiron should be rubbed with suet. Serve very hot. Time.— 3 or 4 minutes. Average cost, Id. per lb. Seasonable from November to March. To Choose Sprats. — Choose these from their silvery appearance, as the brighter they are, so are they the fresher. SPRATS, Dried. Dried sprats should be put into a basin, and boiling water poured over them ; they may then be skinned and served, and this will be found a much better way than boiling them. SPRATS, Fried in Batter. Ingredients. — 2 eggs, flour, bread- crumbs ; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Wipe the sprats, and dip them in a batter made of the above ingredients. Fry of a nice brown, serve very hot, and garnish with fried parsley. Sprats may be baked like heirings. SPROUTS, to Boil Young. Ingredients.—To each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. JfocZe.—Pick away all the dead leave's, and wash the greens well in cold water; drain them in a colander, and put them into fast-boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, until tender; and the moment they are done, take them up, or their colour will be spoiled ; when ! well drained, serve. The great art in cooking greens properly, and to have them a good colour, is to put them into plenty of fast-boiling water, to lot them toil very ^ickly, and to take them up the m^Xient they become tender. Time. —Brocoli sprouts, 10 to 12 minutes; k young greens, 10 to 12 minutes; sprouts, 12 minutes, after the water boils. Sea- sonable.—Sprouts of various kinds may be had all the year. i STEW, Irish. Ingredients.—S lbs. of the loin or nock of mutton, 5 lbs. of potatoes, 5 large onions, popper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water. Mode.— Trim off some of the fat of the above quantity of loin or neck of mutton, and cut it into chops of a moderate thickness. Stilton Cheese Pare and halve the potatoes, and cut the onions into thick slices. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of mutton and onions, and season with pepper and salt; proceed in this manner until the stewpan is full, taking care to have plenty of vegetables at the top. Pour in the water, and let it stew very gently for 2^ hours, keeping the lid of the ste^vpan closely shut the wJiole time, and occasionally shaking the preparation to prevent its burning. Time. —2| hours. Average cost, for this quan- tity^ 2s. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—^viit&hlQ for a winter dish. STEW, Irish. Ingredients.—2 or 3 lbs. of the breast of mutton, 1^ pint of water, salt and pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of potatoes, 4 large onions. Mode.—Put the mutton into a stewpan with the water and a little salt, and let it stew gently for an hour; cut the meat into small pieces, skim the fat from the gravy, and pare and slice the potatoes and onions. Put all the ingre- dients into the stewpan, n layers, first a layer of vegetables, then one of meat, and sprinkle seasoning of pepper and salt between each layer; cover closely, and let the whole stew very gently for 1 hour, or rather more, shaking it fre- quently to prevent its burning. Time. —Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. Note.—Irish stew may be prepared in the same manner as above, but baked in a jar instead of boiled. About 2 hours or rather more in a moderate oven will be sufficient time to bake it. STILTON CHEESE. Stilton cheese, or British Parmesan, as it is sometimes called, is generally pre- ferred to all other cheeses by those whose authority few will dis- pute. Those Mayor June are usually served at Christmas; or, to be in prime order, should be kept from BIILIOir OHBBSB. 10 to 12 months, or even longer. An artificial ripeness in Stilton cheese iaTnE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 330 Stocks for all kinds of Soupa somotimos produced by inserting a small pioco of decayed Cheshire into an aper- ture at the top. From 3 weeks to a month is sufficient time to ripen the cheese. An additional Havour may also be obtained by scooping out a piece from the top, and pouring therein port, sherry, Madeira, or old ale, and letting the cheese absorb these for two or three weeks. But that cheese is the finest which is ripened without any artificial aid, is the opinion of those who are judges in those matters. In serving a Stilton cheese, the top of it should be cut off to form a lid, and a napkin or piece of white paper, with a frill at the top, pinned round. When the cheese goes from table, the lid should be replaced. STOCKS for all kinds of Soups (Kich Strong Stock). Ingredients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 5 lb. of good lean ham ; any poultry trimmings ; 2 oz. of butter ; 3 onions, 3 carrots, 2 turnips (the latter should be omitted in summer, lest they ferment), 1 head of celery, a few chopped mushrooms, when obtainable; 1 tomato, a bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley; 1^ oz. of salt, 3 lumps of sugar, 12 white peppercorns, 6 cloves, 3 small blades of mace, 4 quarts of water, il/oc^e.—Line a delicately clean stewpan with the ham cut in thin broad slices, carefully trimming off all its msty fat; cut up the beef and veal in pieces about 3 inches square, and lay them on the ham; set it on the stove, and draw it down, and stir frequently. When the meat is equally browned, put in the beef dnd veal bones, the poultry trimmings, and pour in the cold water. Skim well, and occasionally add a little cold water, to stop its boiling, until it becomes quite clear ; then put in all the other ingredi- ents, and simmer very slowly for 5 hours. Do not let it come to a brisk boil, that the stock be not wasted, and that its colour may be preserved. Strain through a very fine hair sieve, or cloth, and the stock will be fit for use. Time. — 5 hours. Average coat, Is. 3d. per quart. STOCK, Economical. Ingredients.—Tho liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, say 4 quarts; trimmings of fresh meat or poiUtry, shank-bones, &c., roast-beef bones, any pieces the larder may fur- Stock, to Clarify nish; vegetables, spice.s, and tho sa - seasoning as in tho foregoing reci j ^ Mode.—Let all the ingredients simr . ti gently for G hours, taking caro to sk. ■„ carefully at first. Strain it off, and ] by for use. Time.—6 houi's. Aver ^ cost, 3d. per quart. STOCK, Medium. 6' Ingredients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. each ; any bones, trimmings of poult - or fresh meat, | lb. of lean bacon - ham, 2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, e: , stuck t^Hh 3 cloves ; 1 turnip, 3 carrc 1 head of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, 2 of salt, h a teaspoonful of whole pepf 1 largo blade of mace, 1 bunch of savo' • herbs, 4 quarts and h pint of cold wat Mode.—Cut up the meat and bacon r ham into pieces of about 3 inches squa rub the butter on the bottom of : - stewpan ; put in ^ a pint of water, \. meat, and all the other ingrediei Cover the stewpan, and place it 01 . sharp fire, occasionally stirring its c j tents. When the bottom of the pan comes covered with a pale, jel'iy-l 'i^i substance, add the 4 quarts of cold ter, and simmer very gently for 5 hoi . As we have said before, do not let it 1 T quickly. Remove every particle of sc T. whilst it is doing, and strain it throi ^ a fine hair sieve. This stock is the b: ^. of most of the soups mentioned in i dictionary, and will be found quite strc .. enough for ordinary purposes. Time 5S hours. Average cost, 9d. per quar STOCK, To Clarify. r. Ingredients.—The whites of 2 ci: ^ pint of water, 2 quarts of sto Mode.—Supposing that by some accid the soup is not quite clear, aud that quantity is 2 quarts, take the white.' - 6; 2 eggs, carefully separated from tt yolks, whisk them well together w tho water, and add gradually tho 2 qua 5. of boiling stock, still whisking. PI tho soup on tho fire, and when boil and well skimmed, whisk tho eggs w tj: it till nearly boiling again ; then di | it from the fire, and let it settle, ui tho whites of tho eggs become sejiarat Pass through a fine cloth, and the si should bo clear. jV^o^c.—Tlo nilo is, that all clear so^ should bo of a light straw-colour, ; should not savciur too strongly of »'•331 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Stock, "White meat; and that all white or brown thick SDups should have no more consistency than will enable them to adhere slightly ■10 the spoon when hot. All ;purees ■should be somewhat thicker. STOCK, White (to be used in the preparation of White Soups). Ingredien ts.—i lbs. of knuckle of veal, any poultry trimmings, 4 slices of lean ham, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head of ce- lery, 12 white peppercorns, 2 oz. of salt, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of herbs, 1 oz. butter, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut up the veal, and put it with the bones and trimmings of poultry, and the ham, into the stewpan, which has been rubbed with the butter. Moisten with ^ a pint of water, and simmer till the gravy be- gins to flow. Then add the 4 quarts of water and the remainder of the ingre- dients ; simmer for 5 hours. After skim- ming and straining it carefully through a very fine hair sieve, it will bo ready for use. Time.—5^ hours. Average cost, 9(i. per quart. Note.—When stronger stock is de- sired, double the quantity of veal, or put in an old fowl. The liquor in which a young turkey has been boiled, is an excellent addition to all white stock or soups. STOCK, Consom.m6 or White, for many Sauces. Consomm^ is made precisely in the same manner as white stock, and, for ordinary purposes, will be found quite good enough. When, however, a stronger stock is desired, cither put in half the quantity of water, or double that of the meat. This is a very good foimdation .Jor all white sauces. STRAWBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow ^ pint of red-currant juico, \\ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Strip the cur- lants from the stalks, put them into a jar ; place this jar in a saucepan of boil- ing water, and simmer until the juico is well drawn from tho fruit ; strain the currants, measure the juice, put it into a preserving pan, and add the sugar. Select well-ripened but sound straw- berries ; pick them from the stalks, and when tho sugar is dissolyocl in tho cur- Strawberries and Cream rant-juice, put in the fruit. Simmer the whole over a moderate fire, from \ to ^ hour, carefully removing tho scum as it rises. Stir the jam only enough to pro- vent it from burning at the bottom of the pan, as the fruit should be pre- served as whole as possible. Put the jam into jars, and when cold, cover down. Time.—\ to f hour, reckoning from the time the jam simmers all over. Average cost, from Id. to 8d. per lb. pot, Sufficient.—12 pints of strawberries will make 12 lbs. of jam. Seasonable in June and July. STRAWBERRY JELLY. Ing''-edients.—Strawberries, pounded sugar; to every pint of juice allow 1;^ oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Pick trie straw- berries, put them into a pan, squeeze them well with a wooden spoon, add sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten them nicely, and let them remain tor 1 hour, th'.xt the juice may be extracted ; then add I pint of water to every pint of juico. Strain the strawberry-juice and water through a bag; measure it, and to every pint allow 1^ oz. of isinglass, melted and clarified in ^ pint of water. Mix this with tho juice; put the jelly into a mould, and set the mould in ice. A litt.le lemon-juice added to the straw- berry-juice improves the flavour of the jolly, if tho frnit is very ripe ; but it must be well strained before it is put to the other ingredients, or it will make the jelly muddy. Time.—1 hour to draw the juice. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 3s. Sufficient.—Allow pint of jelly for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. STRAWBERRIES and CREAM. Ingredients.—To every pint of picked strawberries allow J pint of cream, 2 oz. of finely-pounded sugar. Mode. —Pick the stalks from the fruit, place it ou a glass dish, sprinkle over it pounded sugar, and slightly stir the strawberries, that they may all be equally sweetened ; pour tho croara over the top, and servo. Devonshire cream, when it can be ob- tained, is exceedingly delicious for this dish; and, if very thick indeed, may bo diluted with a little thin cream or milk. Ai-arnge cost fortius quantity, with cream at Is. per pint, Is. Suffi- cient lor 2 persons. Seasonable in Juno arid July.333 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Strawberries, Preserved in Wine STBAWBERKIES, Preserved in Wine. Ingredients. — To every quart bottle allow \ lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; sherry or JIadeira. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in fine weather, and used as soon as picked. Havo ready some per- fectly dry glass bottles, and some nice soft corks or bungs. Pick the stalks from tho strawberries, drop them into the bottles, sprinkling amongst them pounded £ agar in the above proportion, and when the fruit reaches to the neck of the bottle, fill up with sherry or Madeira. Cork the bottles down with new corks, and dip them into melted resin. Season- able.—Make this in June or July. STRAWBEBRIES, to Preserve Whole. Ingredients. — To every lb. of frait allow 1.1 lb. of good loaf sugar, 1 pint of red-currant juice. Mode.—Choose the strawberries not too ripe, of a fine large sort and of a good colour. Pick off the stalks, lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded. Shake the dish gently, that the sugar may be equally distributed and touch the under-side of the fruit, and let it remain for 1 day. Then have ready the currant-juice, drawn as for red-currant jelly ; boil it with the remainder of the sugar until it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the strawberries and sugar, until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken not to stir the fruit roughly, as it should be preserved as whole as possible. Straw- berries prepared in this manner are very good served in glasses and mixed with thin cream. Time.—\ hour to 20 mi- nutes to simmer the strawberries in tho syrup. Seasonable in June and July. STBAWBEBBY, Open Tart of, or any other Kind of Preserve. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any kind of jam. Mode.—Butter a tart- pan of the shape shown in the engraving, roll out tho paste to tho thickness of h an inch, and line tho pan with it; prick a few holes at the bottom with a fork, and bake tho tart in a brisk oven from 10 to l.T minutes. Let tho paste cool a littlo; thou till it with preserve, place a Sturgeon, Boast few stars or leaves on it, which hav p been previously cut out of the paste a' ' baked, and tho tart is ready lor tab. By making it in this manner, both th' flavour and colour of the jam are pre - served, which would otherwise be lost: s OPEir-TAET MOULD. ^ were it baked in the oven on the paste ? I' and, besides, so much jam is not re " quired. Timie.—10 to 15 min. Averag ' cosl,Sd. Sufficient.—1 tart for 3 persons ^ P Seasonable at any time. •■ STTJBGEOW, Baked. ; Ingredients. — 1 small sturgeon, sal i and pepper to taste, 1 small bunch c ii herbs, the juice of \ lemon, i lb. o I butter, 1 pint of white wine. Mode.— F Cleanse the fish thoroughly, skin it, an( i split it along the belly without separatin;. i it; have ready a large baking-dish, ii: which lay tho fish, sprinkle over th ; seasoning and herbs very finely minced i and moisten it with tho lemon-juice an( wine. Place the butter in small piece ^ over the whole of the fish, put it in tin oven, and baste frequently; brown i : ^ nicely, and serve with its own gravy Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average cost, Is to Is. Gd. per lb. Seasonable fi-om Augus i 1 to March. STUBGEON", Boast. Ingredients.— Veal stufiing, buttered! \ paper, the tail-end of a sturgeon. Mode — Cleanse tho fish bono and skin it : make a nice veal stufflpg {see Forcemeats) . and fill it with tho part where the bone; ■ came from ; roll it in buttered paper . bind It up firmly with t.ipo, like a fillei; of veal, and roast it in a Dutch over i before ft clear fire. Serve with good333 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Suet Pudding brown gravy, or plain melted butter. Time.—About 1 Lour. Average costs, Is. to Is. did. per lb. Seasonable from August to March. ,.,,.11 ~ iV'^o^e.—Sturgeon may be plamly boiled, and served with Dutch sauce. The fish is very firm, and requires long boiling. SUET PUDDIWGr, to serve with Eoast Meat. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, I saltspoonful of salt, h saltspoonful of pepper, | pint of milk or water. i/orZe.—Chop the suet very finely, after freeing it from skin, and mix it well with the flour; add the salt and pepper (this latter ingredient may be omitted if the flavour is not liked), and make the whole into a smooth paste with the above proportion of milk or water. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, or put it into a buttered basin, and boil fi-om 2| to 3 hours. To enrich it, substitute 3 beaten eggs for some of the milk or water, and increase the pro- portion of suet. Time.—2h to 3 hoiu-s. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—When there is a joint roasting or baking, this pudding may be boiled in a long shape, and then cut into slices a few minutes before dinner is served ; these slices should be laid in the dripping- pan for a minute or two, anei then browned before the fire. Most children like this accompaniment to roast-meat. SUGAB, to Boil, to Caramel. Ingredients. — To every lb. of lump eugar allow 1 gill of spring water. Mode. — Boil the sugar and water together very quickly over a clear fire, skimming it Very carefully as soon as it boils. Keep it boiling until the sugar snaps when a little of it is dropped in a pan of cold water. If it remains hard, the sugar has attained the right degree; then squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and lot it remain an instant on the fire. Set the pan into another of cold water, and the caramel is then ready for use. The insides of well-oiled moulds aro often ornamented with this sugar, which with a fork should bo spread over them in fine threads or network. A dish of light pastry, taste- fully arranged, looks very pretty with this sugar spun lightly over it. Suppers SUPPEBS. Much may be done in the arrange- ment of a supper-table, at a very small expense, provided taste and ingemdty are exercised. The colours and flavours of the various dishes should contrast nicely ; there should be plenty of fruit and flowers on the table, and the room should be well hghted. We have endeavoured to show how the various dishes may be placed; but of course these little matters entirely depend on the length and width of the table used, on individual taste, whether tho tables are arranged round the room, whether down tho centre, with a cross one at the top, or whether the supper is laid in two separate rooms, &c., &c. The garnishing of the dishes has also much to do with the appearance of a supper-table. Hams and tongues should be ornamented with cut vegetable flowers, raised pies with aspic jelly cut in dice, and all the dishes garnished sufficiently to be in good taste without looking absurd. The eye, in fact, should bo as much gratified as the palate. Hot soup is now often served at suppers, but is not placed on the table. The servants fill the plates from a tureen on tho buff"et, and then hand them to the guests : when these plates are removed, the business of supper commences. Where small rooms and large parties necessitate having a standing supper, manythiugs enumerated in the following bill of fare may be placed on the buffet. Dishes for these suppers should be se- lected which may be eaten standing without any trouble. The following list may, perhaps, assist our readers in the arrangement of a buffet for a standing supper. Beef, ham, and tongue-sandwiches, lobster and oyster-patties, sausage-rolls, meat-rolls, lobster-salad, dishes of fowls, the latter all cut up; dishes of sliced ham, sliced tongue, sliced beef, and ga- lantine of veal; various jellies, blanc- manges, and creams; custards in glasses, compotes of fruit, tartlets of jam, and several dishes of small fancy pastry; dishes of fresh fruit, bonbons, sweet- meats, two or three sponge-cakes, a few plates of biscuits, and the buffet orna- mented with vases of fresh or artificial flowers. Tho above dishes are quite suf- ficient for a standing supper; whore more aro desired, a supper must then be laid and arranged in the usual manner.831 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. SLTPPEE, BILL OF FAHE FOB A l ALL, FOB 60 PEBSONS3| (tor Winter). CO p o o a ■a o CO o o » CO o 4 Fi-uited Jelly. Small Pastry. Vanilla Cream, Prawns. Biscuits. Custards, in glasses. Boae's Hbad, garnished with Aepic Jelly, Uayonnaise of Fowl. Small Ham, garnished. Iced Savoy Cake. Epergne, with Fruit. Two Boiled Fowls, with Bdchamel Sauce. Tongue, ornamented. Trifle, ornamented. Fruited Jelly. Meringues. Bafpborry Cream. Small Pastry, Cu'tardfl, in glasses. Prawns Biscuits. Fruited Jelly. Charlotte Bussc. Baised Chicken Pie. Tipsy Cake. Boast Pheasant. Epergne, with Fruit. Galantine of Veal. Tipsy Cake. Baised Game Pie. Trifle, ornamented. Tongue, ornamented. Two Boiled Fowls, with BiSchamel Sauce, BPEBGNB, WITH mCIT. locd Savoy Cake, Small Ilam, garnished. Mayonnaise of Fowl. Larded Capon, Charlotte BuEse. BiscuitB. Fruited Jelly. Prawns. Email Pastry. Custaras, in glasses. Swiss Cream. Meringues. Fruited Jelly. Biscuits. CuFta'ds, in (;la£se8. Prawns. _ Small Pastry. Blancmange. Fruited Jelly, o o o K o 00 .n o o o o jVo/g.—When Boup is served from tlio buffet, Mock Turtle and Julienne may be Bolcctcd. Besides the articles enumerated above. Ices, Wafers, Biscuits, Tea, Coffee, Wines and Liqueurs will be required. I'uuch Jl la Romainc may also be added to the list of bovoragoa.335 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. SUPPER, BILL OF FARE FOR A BALTi, Or a Cold Collation for a Summer Entertainment, or Wedding or Cliris- tening Breakfast for 70 or 80 Persons (July), Dish of Lobster, cut up. Charlotte Kusse a la Vaiiille. Pigeon Pie. Q o ^ O. CO P " £§ O O) P 1-1 ^ In n <B ?■ t/3 «• s z. CO p CO to ^ ® Qj B- -. O P CO n H p to 1 5 n p — C ° re o* o >d Pigeon Pie. " ?5 p re !? re (B 3. re Qj O a> C re a. CD CO Dish of Lobstei", cat up. B3 CO ►1 C 1 « o 1 p Dish of a„„„„ Lobster, Savoj cut up. Tongue. Sibs of Lamb. Two Eoast Fowls. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Veal-and-Ham Pie. 00 p o Epergne, withFlowers. CM hp Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue, garnished. Boiled Fowh and Bechamel Sauce. Collared Eel. Ham. Eaised Pie. Two Eoast Fowls. Shoulder of Lamb, stuffed. Mayonnaise of Salmon. B P (a 3 ° S' C re r ft, Epergne,with Flowers, Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue. Boiled Fowls and Bechamel Sauce, Raised Pie. Ham, decorated. Shoulder of Lamb, stuffed. Two Boast Fowls. Mayonnaise of Saknon. p CO Epergne, with Flowers, Saroy Cake. Dish of Lobster, cut up. CO ^ Pigeon Pie. 05 ^ Dish of Lobster, cut up. Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue, garnished. Boiled Fowls and Bdchamel Sauce, Collared Eel. Char- lotte Eusse a la Tanille. Teal and Ham Pie. Dish of Lobster, cut up. 5 « a P (U n o 0) 0 •c 43 O P< o O K> ail 5" « 3 -a « a o f-. a m CJ 03 CO o —. -a a a gm cQ Cm o QJ d CO tn a o O •^o^e—The length of the page will not admit of our givingthe dishes as they should be plnced on the table ; they thould be arranged with the lurpe and high dishes down the centre and the spaces filled up with the smaUer dishes, fruit, and flowers, taking care that the flavours and colours contrast nicely, and that no two dishes of a sort come tcgclhcr. This bill of faro nmy be made to answer three or four purposes, placing a wedding cake or christening cake in the centre on a high stand, if required for either of these occasions. A few dishes of lowls, lobster salads, &C. &C., should be kept in reserTe to replenish those that are most likely to be eaten trst. A jomt of cold roast and boiled beef should be placed on the Imflct, as being somethinff substantial for the gentlemen of the party to partake of. Besides the articles enumerated in the bill ot tare, biscuits and wafers will bo required, crcam-and-water ices, tea. wllee. wines liqueurs, soda-water, ginger-beer, and lemonade. 'THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 336 Sweetbreads, Baked SWEETBBEADS, Baked (an En- tree). Ingredienis.—3 sweetbreads, egg and bread-crumbs, oiled butter, 3 slices of toast, brown gravy. Mode. — Choose large white sweetbreads; put them into warm water to draw out the blood, and to improve their colour ; let them remain for rather more than 1 hour; then put them into boiling water, and allow them to simmer for about 10 minutes, which BWEETBBEADS, renders them firm. Take them up, drain them, brush over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs; dip them in egg again, and then into more bread-crumbs. Drop on them a little oiled butter, and put the sweetbreads into a moderately-heated oven, and let them bake for nearly ^ liour. Make 3 pieces of toast; place the sweetbreads on the toast, and pour round, but not over them, a good brown gravy. TMJie.—To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 minutes, baked 40 minutes. Average cost, Is. to 5s. Sufficient for an entr6e. Seasonalle.—In full season from May to August. SWEETBBEADS, Fried {h la Maitre d'Hotel), an Entree, Ingredienis.—3 sweetbreads, egg and bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, rather more than I pint of maltre-d'hOtel sauce. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in warm water for an hour; then boil them for 10 minutes; cut them in slices, egg and bread-crumb them, season with popper and salt, and put them into a frying-pan, with the above proportion of butter. Keep turn- ing them until done, which will be in about 10 minutes ; dish them, and pour over them a maitre-d'hOtel sauce. 'J'ho dish may be garnished with slices of cut emon. Time.—To soak 1 hour, to bo broiled 10 minutes, to be fried about 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. to 5.?., ac- cording to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable.—In full season from May to August. J^o(e.—Tho egg and bread-crumb may bo omitted, and the slices of sweetbread dredged with a little flour instead, and a Sweetbreads, Lambs* good gravy may be substituted for that maitre-d'hOtel sauce. This is a veryr simple method of dressing them. SWEETBBEADS, Stewed (an En- tree). Ingredients.—3 sweetbreads, 1 pint of white stock, thickening of butter and: flour, C tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 table- - spoonful of lemon-juice, 1 blade of: pounded mace, white pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in. warm water for 1 hour, and boil them for- 10 minutes; take them out, put them. into cold water for a few minutes; layr them in a stewpan with the stock, and! simmer them gently for rather more than; I hour. Dish them; thicken the gravy .• with a little butter and flour ; let it boU up, add the remaining ingredients, allow > the sauce to get quite hot, but not boil,, and pour it over the sweetbreads. Tijne.. —To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 mi-- nutes, stewed rather more than h hour.. Average cost, from Is. to 5s., according; to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seaso7iable.—In full season from ilay to ' August. Note.—A few mushrooms added to this dish, and stewed with the sweetbreads, will be found an improvement. SWEETBBEADS, Lambs',larded, and Asparagus (an Entree). Ingredients.—2 or 3 sweetbreads, ^ pint of veal stock, white pepper and salt to tasto, a small bunch of green onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, thickening of butter and flour, 2 eggs, nearly h pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water, and put them into a saucepan with suf- ficient boiling water to cover them, and lot them simmer for 10 minutes; then take them out and put them into cold water. Now lard them, lay them in a stewpan, add the stock, seasoning, onions, mace, and a thickening of butter and flour, and stew gently for ^ hour or 20 minutes. Beat up the egg with the cream, to which add the minced parsley and a very little grated nutmeg. Put this to the other ingredients; stir it well till quite hot, but do not let it boil after the cream is added, or it will curdle. Have ready some asjiaragus-tops, boiled; add these to the sweetbreads, and servr Time.—Altogether ^ hour. Averagt cost.337 THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. Sweetbreads, another way to Dress 2s. Gd. to 3.?. 6d. each. Su^cient.—d iweetbreads for 1 entree. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. SWEETBREADS, another Way to Dress (an Entr6e). Ingredients. — Sweetbreads, egg and bread-crumbs, ^ pint of gravy, h glass of sherry. 3Iode.—Soak the sweetbreads in water for an hour, and throw them into boiling water to render them firm. Let them stew gently for about ^ hour, take them out and put them into a cloth to drain all the water from them. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and either brown them in the oven or before the fire. Have ready the above quantity of gravy, to which add ^ glass of sherry; dish the sweet- breads, pour the gravy under them, and garnish with water-cresses. Time. — Rather more than h hour. Average cost, 2s. M. to 3s. Gd' each. Sufficient—t sweetbreads for 1 entree. Seasonalle, from Easter to Michaelmas. SYLLABUB. Ingredients.—1 pint of sherry or white wine, ^ grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, 1^ pint of milk. Mode.—Put the wine into a bowl, with the grated nutmeg and plenty of pounded sugar, and milk into it the above proportion of milk from the cow. Clouted cream may bo laid on the top, with pounded cinnamon or nutmeg and sugar; and a little brandy may be added to the wine before the milk is put in. In some counties, cider is substi- tuted for the wine: when this is used, brandy must always be added. Warm milk may be poured on from a spouted jug or teapot; but it must bo held very high. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. SYLLABUBS, Whipped. Ingredients. — h pint of cream, \ pint of sherry, half that quantity of brandy, the juice of ^ lemon, a little grated nutmeg, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, whipped cream the same as for trifle. Mode.—Mix all tho ingredients ogethcr, put the syllabub into glasses, and over the top of them heap a little whipped cream, made in the same manner as for trifle. Solid syllabub is made by whisking or milling the mixture to a stiff troth, and putting it ic the glasses, with- Tartlets out the whipped cream at the top. Average cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient to lill 8 or 9 glasses. Seasonable at any time. SYRUP for Jellies, to Clarify. Ingredients.—To every quart of water allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar; the white ot 1 egg. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and, when the sugar is dissolved, add the white of the egg, whipped up with a little water. Whisk the whole well together, and simmer very gently until it has thi'own up all the scum. Take this off as it rises, strain the syrup through a fine sieve or cloth into a basin, and keep it for use. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 oz. of tapioca, 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, 4 eggs, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon-rind, or bitter almonds. Mode. —Wash the tapioca, and let it stew gently in the milk by the side of the fire for ^ hour, occasionally stirring it; then let it cool a little ; mix with it the butter, sugar, and eggs, which should bo well beaten, and flavour with either ot the above ingredients, putting in about 12 drops of the essence of almonds or vanilla, whichever is preferred. Butter a pie-dish, and line the edges with puff- paste ; put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. If the pud- ding is boiled, add a little more tapioca, and boil it in a buttered basin 1^ hour. Time.—1 hour to bake, Ih hour to boil. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. TAPIOCA SOUP. Ingredients.—5 oz. of tapioca, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Put the tapioca into cold stock, and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer gently till tender, and serve. Time. —Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Season- able all tho year. Sufficient for 8 persons. TARTLETS. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any jam or marmalade that may be pre- ferred. Mode.—Roll out the paste to the thickness of about ^ inch; butter some small round patty-pans, line them with it, aad cut off the superfluousj)astaTUE DICTIONARY 01? COOKEEY. S38 Tartlets, Polish DlSn OP TAEILETS, close to the edj^o of the pan. Put a Email piece of bread into each tartlet (this is to keep them in shape), and bake in a .brisk oven .for about 10 mi- nutes, or rather longer. When they are done, and are of a nice colour, take the pieces of bread out carefully, and replace them by a spoon- ful of jam or marmalade. Dish them high on a white d'oyley, piled high in the centre, and serve. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, \d. each. SvjfL- dent.—1 lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of "iartlets. Seasonable at any time. TABTLETS, Polish. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, the white of an egg, pounded sugar. Ilode.—Eoll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it into 2g-inch squares; brush each square over with the white of an egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the middle of each piece of paste; slightly press the two pieces together, brush them over with the egg, sift over sugar, and bake in a nice quick oven for about I hour. When they are done, make a little hole in the middle of the paste, and fill it up with apricot jam, marmalade, or red-currant jelly. Pile them high in the centre of a dish, on a napkin, and garnish with the same pre- seiTO the tartlets are filled with. Time. —\ hour or 20 minutes. Average cost, with h lb. of pufif-paste, Is. Svfficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. Note.—It should be bonio in mind, that, for all dishes of small pastry, such C.s the preceding, trimmings of puff- jiaste, left from iaigcr tarts, answer as well as making the paste expressly. TEA, to make. There is very little art in making good tea; if the water is boiling, and fhcro is no sparing of the fragrant leaf, the beverage will almost invariably bo good. The old-fashioned plan of allow- ing a tcaspoonful to each person, and ono over, is still practised. Warm the teapot with boiling water ; let it remain for two or three minutes for tho vessel to become thoroughly hot, then pour it away. Put in tho tea, pour in Irom h Tea-Cakes to J pint of boiling water, close the lid,, and let it stand for the tea to dr.^w• from 6 to 10 minutes; then fill up the pot with water. Tho tea will be quite spoiled unless made with water that is actually boiling, as the leaves will not' open, and the flavour not be extracted from them; the beverage will conse- quently be colourless and tasteless,^ in fact, nothing but tepid water. Whera i there is a very large party to make tea. for, it is a good plan to have two tea- pots, instead of putting a largo quantity of tea into one pot; the tea, besides, will go farther. When the infusion has been once completed, the addition of fresh tea adds very little to the strength; so, when more is required, have the pot emptied of the old leaves, scalded, and fresh tea made in the usual manner. Economists say that a few grains of car- bonate of soda, added before the boiling water is poured on the tea, assist to draw out the goodness; if the water is very hard, perhaps it is a good plan, as the soda softens it; but care must be taken to use this ingi-edient spa- ringly, as it is liable to give the tea a eoapy taste if added in too largo a quantity. For mixed tea, the usual proportion is four spoonfuls of black to one of green; more of the latter when theflavourisvery much liked ; but strong green tea is highly pernicious, and should never be pai-takeu of too freely. Time.— 2 minutes to warm the teapot, 5 to 10 minutes to draw the strength from the tea. Sufficient.—AHovf 1 teaspoonful to each person. TEA-CAKES. " Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, \ tea- spoonful of salt, ^ lb. of butter or lard, 1 egg, a piece of German yeast the size of a walnut, warm milk. Mode.—Put tho flour (which should be perfectly dry) into a basin; mix with it the salt, and rub in tho butter or lard ; then beat tho egg well, stir to it tho yeast, and add these to tho flour with as much warm milk as will make tho whole into a smooth paste, and knead it well. Lot'it rise near tho fire, and, when well risen, form it into cakes; place them on tins, let them 2-:so again for a few minutes before putting them into tho oven, and bake from \ to J, hour in a moderate oven. Those are very nice with a few currants and a littlo sugar added to the other ingredient^THE DICTIONAKY OF COOKEHY. 339 Tea-Cakes, to toast I they should bo put in after the butter is j rubbed in. These cakes should be but- ' tared, and eaten hot as soon as baked ; but, when stale, they are very nice split and toasted; or, if dipped in milk, or even water, and covered with a basin in the oven till hot, they will be almost equal to new. Time.—I to h hour. Average cost, lOrf. Sufficient to make 8 tea-cakes. Seasonable at any time. TEA-CAKES, to toast. Cut- each tea-cake into three or four slices, according to its thickness; toast them on both sides before a nice clear fire, and as each slice is done, spread it with butter on toasted,pilethe '^^^^^^ slices one on the tea-cakes. top of the other, cut them into quai-ters, put them on a very hot plate, and send the cakes immediately to table. As they are wanted, send them in hot, one or two at a time, as, if allowed to stand, they spoil, unless kept in a muffin- plate over a basin of boiling water. TEAL, Boast. Ingredients.—TeTi], butter, a little flour. J/ot/e.—Choose fat, plump birds, after the frost has set in, as they are generally better flavoured ; truss them in the same manner as wild duck; roast them before a brisk fire, and keep them well basted. Serve with brown or orange gravy, water-cresses, and a cut lemon. The remains of teal make excellent hash. Time.—From 9 to 15 minutes. Averar/e cost, Is. each; but seldom bought. Suhl- cie>it.-2 for a dish. Seasonahle from October to' February. TEAL. Teal, being of the same character as widgeon and wild duck, may bo treated, m carving, in the same style. TENCH, Matelot of. Ingredients.—^ pint of stock, h pint of port wine, 1 dozen button onions, a few mushrooms, a faggot of herbs, 2 blades of mace, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of mmced parsley, thyme, 1 shalot, 2 ancho- vies, 1 teacupful of stock, flour, 1 dozen oysters, the juice of ^ lemon; the number of tench, according to size. Mode.— Tendrons de Veau, Stewed Scale and clean the tench, cut them into pieces, and lay them in a stewpan; add the stock, wine, onions, mushrooms, herbs, and mace, and simmer gently for ^ hour. Put into another stewpan all the remaining ingredients but the oysters and lemon-juice, and boil slowly for 10 minutes, when add the strained liquor from the tench, and keep stirring it over the fire until somewhat reduced. Rub 'A through a sieve, pour it over the tench with the oysters, which must be pre- viously scalded in their own liquor, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. Garnish with croutons. Time. —J hour. Seasonable from October to June. TENCH, Stewed with Wine. Ingredients. — \ pint of stock, ^ pint of Madeira or sherry, salt and pepper to taste, 1 bay-leaf, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Clean and crimp the tench, carefully lay it in a stewpan with the stock, wine, salt and pepper, and bay-leaf, let it stew gently for h hour: then take it out, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Strain the liquor, and thicken it with butter and flour kneaded to- gether, and stew for 5 minutes. If not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, add a very little cayenne, and pour over the fish. Garnish with balls of veal forcemeat. Time. —Rather more than ^ hour. Seasonable from October to June. TENDRONS DE VEAU, Stewed (an Entr6e). Ingredients.-The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, white stock, 1 faggot of savom-y herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel. Mode.—Th.Q tendrons or gristles, which are found round the front of a breast of veal, are now veiy fi-c- quently served as an entrdo, and when well dressed, make a nice and favourite dish. Detach the gristles from the bone, and cut them neatly out, so as not to spoil the joint for roasting or stewing. Put them into a stewpan, with sufficient stock to cover them ; add the herbs, mace, cloves, carrots, onions, and lemon, and simmer these for nearly, or quite, 4 hours. They should bo stewed until n fork will enter the meat easily. Tako them up, drain them, strain tho gravy, boil it down to a glaze, with which glaza the meat. Dish the te'^dvon-i in a circ!©THE DICTIONAllY OP COOKERY. 340 Tendrons de Veau ■with crofitons fried^ of a nice colour placed between each ;*and put mushroom sauce, or a purde of green peas or toma- toes, in the middle. Time.—4 hours. Sufficient ior 1 entr€o. Seasonable.—With peas, from June to August. TEWDRONS DE VEAU (an Entr6e). Ingredients. — The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, white stock, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 1 blade of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel, egg and bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, the yolk of 1 egg, 3 table- spoonfuls of cream. Mode.—After re- moving the gristles from a breast of veal, stew them for 4 hours, as in the pre- ceding recipe, with stock, herbs, mace, cloves, carrots, onions, and lemon-peel. When perfectly tender, lift them out and remove any bones or hard parts remain- ing. Put them between two dishes, with a weight on the top, and when cold, cut them into slices. Brush these over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry a pale brown. Take ^ pint of the gravy they were boiled in, aTid 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushi'ooms, a seasoning of salt and pepper, the sherry, and the yolk of an egg beaten with 3 tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens ; when it is on the point of boiling, dish the tendrons in a circle, and pour the sauce in the middle. Tendrons are dressed in a variety of ways,—with sauce h I'Espagnole, vege- tables of all kinds: when they are served with a pur6e, they should always bo glazed. Tme.—4^ hours. Average cost. —Usually bought with breast of veal. Sufficient for an entrdo. Seasonable from March to October. TETE DE VEAU EN TOBTUE (an Entree). Ingredients.—Half a calf's head, or the remains of a cold boiled ono; rather more than 1 pint of good white stock, 1 glass of sherry or Jladoira, cayenne and salt to taste, about 12 mushroom-buttons (when obtainable), 6 hard-boiled eggs, 4 phorkins, 8 quenelles, or forcemeat balls, 12 crayfish, 12 crofltons. Mode.—lloXt a calf's head is sufficient to make a good jntrdo, and if there are any remains of a cold ono loft from the preceding day, it Tipsy Cake will answer very well for this dish. After boiling the head until tender, remove tho bones, and cut the meat into neat pieces; put tho stwck into a stewpan, add the wino, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne; fry the mushroocis in butter for 2 or 3 minutes, and add these to the gravy. Boil this quickly until somewhat reduced ; then put in tho yolks of the hard-boiled eggs whole, and the whites cut in small pieces, and the gherkins chopped. Have ready a few veal que- nelles, add these, with the slices of head, to the other ingredients, and let the whole get thoroughly hot, xvithout boiling. Arrange the pieces of head as high m the centre of the dish as possible; pour over them the ragotlt, and garnish with the crayfish and croutons placed alter- nately. A little of the gravy should also be served in a tureen. Time.—About ^ hour to reduce the stock. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Average cost, ex- clusive of the calf's head, 2s. 9d. Sea- sonable from March to October. TIPSY CAKE. Ingredients.—1 moulded sponge or Savoy cake, sufficient sweet wino or sherry to soak it, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 pint of rich custard. Mode.—Procure a cake that is three or four days old, — either sponge. Savoy, or rice answering for the purpose of a tipsy cake. Cut the bottom of the cake level, to make it stand firm in the dish; make a small hole in the centre, and pour in and over the cake sufficient sweet wine or ^r^^gAXBK^^^gffk sherry, mixed with ^^^^^^^^v^r the above proper- ^^S^jM^^J^^J^ tion of brandy, to ^^^^Hjf^^^ soak it nicely. When the cake V is well soaked, ^^^j E blanch and cut '"^^^. K tho almonds into ^^^^^=S^ strips, stick them all over tho cake, tip.x cakb. and pour round it a good custard, made by our recipe, allowing 8 eggs instead of 5 to tbo pint of milk. The cakes are sometimes crumbled and soaked, and a whipped cream heiiped over thera, the s.inio as for trifles. Time. —About 2 hours to soak tho cako. Average cost, As. (id. Suffi- cient for 1 dish. Seasonable at any time.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 341 Tipsy Cake, an easy way of making TIPSY" CAKE, an easy way of making. Ingredients.—12 stale small spongo- cakes, raisin wino, ^ lb. of jam, 1 pint of custard (see Custard). Mode.—Soak the sponge-cakes, which should be stale (on this account thoy should be cheaper), in a littJe raisin wine; arrange them on a deep glass dish in four layers, putting a layer of jam between each, and pour round them a pint of custard, made by recipe, decorating the top with cut pre- served-fruit. Time.—2 hours to soak the cakes. Average cost, 2s'. 6d. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable at any time. TOAD-IW-THE-HOLE (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Q oz. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, butter, a few slices of cold mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 kid- neys. Mode.—Make a smooth batter of flour, milk, and eggs in the above pro- portion ; butter a baking-dish, and pour in the batter. Into this place a few slices of cold mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kidneys, which should be cut into rather small pieces; bake about 1 hour, or rather longer, and send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oystth-s or mushrooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found ex- ceedingly good. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. A verage cost, exclusive of the cold meat, ?>d. Seasonable at any lime. TOAD-ITT-THE-HOLE (a Homely but Savoury Dish). Ingredients.—1^ lb. of rump-steak, 1 sheep's kidney, pepper and salt to taste. For the batter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, h salt- spoonful of salt. Mode.—Cut up the steak and kidney into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a pie-dish, with a good seasoning of salt and pepper ; mix the flour with a small quantity of milk at first, to prevent its being lumpy ; add the remainder, and the 3 eggs, which should bo well beaten ; put in the salt, stir the batter for about 5 minutes, and pour it over the steak. Place it in a tolerably brisk oven immediately, and bake for l.J hour. Time.—1.^ hour. Ave- rage cost, 1*. 9rf. Sufficient for 4 or 5 por- Bons. Seaeonable at any time. iiote.—Tho rcniaiasof cgld beef, rather Toast, to make Hot Buttered underdone, may be substituted for the steak, and, when liked, the smallest pos- sible quantity of minced onion or shalot may be added. TOAST, to make Dry. To make dry toast properly, a great deal of attention is required ; much more, indeed, than people generally suppose. Never use new bread for making any kind of toast, as it eats heavy, and, besides, is very extravagant. Procure a loaf of household bread about two days old ; cut off as many slices as_ may be required, not quite j inch in thickness ; trim olf the crusts and ragged edges, put the bread on a toasting-fork, and hold it before a very clear tire. Move it back- wards and forwards until the bread is nicely colourea; then turn it and toast the other side, and do not place it so near the fire that it blackens. Dry toast should be more gradually made than buttered toast, as its great beauty consists in its crispness, and this cannot be attained unless the process is slow and the bread is allowed gradually to colour. It should never be made long before it is wanted, as it soon becomes tough, unless placed on the fender in fi-ont of the fire. As soon as each piece is ready, it should be put into a rack, or stood upon its edges, and sent quickly to table. TOAST, to makr Hot Buttered. A loaf of household bread about two days old answers for making toast better than cottage bread, the latter not being a good shape, and too cnisty for the pur- pose. Cut as many nice even slices as may be required, rather more than ^ inch in thickness, and toast them before a very bright fire, without allowing the bread to blacken, which spoils the ap- pearance and flavour of all toast. When of a nice colour on both sides, put it on a hot plate ; divide some good butter into small pieces, place them on the toast, set this before the fire, and when the butter is just beginning to melt, spread it lightly over the toast. Trim off the crust and ragged edges, divide each round into 4 pieces, and send the toast quickly to table. Some persons cut the slices of toast across from corner to corner, so making the pieces of a throe-cornered shape. Soyer i-ecommcnds that each slice should be cut into pieces as soon as it is buttered, ancl when all are ready.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 843 Toast-and-Water that they should be piled lightly on the dish they arc intended to bo served on. IIo says that by cutting through 4 or 5 slices at a time, all the butter is squeezed out of the upper ones, while the bottom one is swimming in fat liquid. It is highly essential to \;so good butter for making this dish, TOAST-ATTD-WATER. Ingredients.—A slice of bread, 1 quart of boiling water. Mode.—Cut a slice from a stale loaf (a piece of hard crust is better than anything else for the pur- pose), toast it of a nice brown on every side, but do not allow it to hum or hlachen. Put it into a jug, pour the boiling water over it, cover it closely, and let it remain until cold. When strained, it will be ready for use. Toast-and-water should always be made a short time before it is required, to enable it to get cold: if drunk in a tepid or lukewarm state, it is an exceedingly disagreeable beverage. If, as is sometimes the case, this drink is wanted in a hurry, put the toasted bread into a jug, and only just cover it with the boiling water ; when this is cool, cold water may be added in the proportion required, the toast-and-water strained ; it will then be ready for use, and is more expeditiously prepared than by the above method. TOAST SANDWICHES. Ingredients. — Thin cold toast, thin slices of bread-and-butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. — Place a very thin piece of cold toast between 2 slices of thin bread-and-butter in the form of a sandwich, adding a seasoning of pepper and salt. This sandwich may be varied by adding a little pulled meat, or very fine slices of cold meat, to the toast, and in any of these,forms will bo found very tempting to the appetite of an invalid. TOFFEE, Everton. Ingredicnls.— 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 teacupful of water, ^ lb. of butter, 6 drops of essence ot lemon. Mode.—Put the water and sugar into a brass pan, and beat the butter to a cream. When the sugar is dissolved, add the butter, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire until it sets, when a little is poured on to a buttered dish ; and just before tho toffee is done, add the essence of lemon. Butter a dish or tin, pour on it tho mixture, and w^:cn cool, it will Tomato Sauce for Keeping easily separate from the dish. Buttei' Scotch, an excellent thing for coughs- is made with brown, instead of whit sugar, omitting the water, and flavours with \ oz. of powdered ginger. It i. made in the same manner as toffee Time.—18 to 35 minutes. Average cost IQd. Sufficient to make a lb. of tolfce, TOMATO SAUCE for Keeping (Excellent). Ingredients.—To every quart of tomato- pulp allow 1 pint of cayenne vinegar, ^ oz. of shalots, J oz. of garlic, peeled and cut in slices ; salt to taste. To every six quarts of liquor, 1 pint of soy, 1 pint of anchovy-sauce. Mode.—Gather the tomatoes quite ripe ; bake them in au slow oven till tender ; rub them through: a sieve, and to every quart of pulp add cayenne vinegar, shalots, garlic, and salt, in the above proportion; boil the whole together till the garlic and shalots ares quite soft; then rub it through a sieve, put it ngain into a saucepan, and, to every six quarts of the liquor, add 1 pintt of^soy and the same quantity of anchoiy- sauce, and boil altogether for about 20 minutes ; bottle off for use, and carefully seal or resin the corks. This will keep good for 2 or 3 years, but will be fit for use in a week. A useful and less expen- sive sauce may be made by omitting tho anchovy and soy. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Seasonable.—Make this from the middle of September to the end of October. TOMATO SAUCE for Keeping (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 dozen tomatoes, 2 tea- spoonfuls of the best powdered ginger, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 1 head of garlio chopped tine, 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, 1 dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar (.% small quantity of cayenne may be sub- stituted for this). Mode.—Choose ripe tomatoes, put them into a stone jar, and stand them in a cool oven until quite tender; whan cold, take the skins and stalks from them, mix the pulp with tlie liquor which is in tho jar, but do not strain it; add all tho other ingredients, mix well together, and put it into well- sealed bottles. Stored away in a cool, dry place, it will keeji good for years. It is ready for use as soon as made, but tho flavour is better after a week or two. Should it not appear to keep, turn it out, and boil it up ivitb a little additional343 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Tomato Sauce for Keeping ginger and cayenne. For immediate use, the skins should be put into a wide- mouthed bottle with a little of the diffe- rent ingredients, and they wiU be found very nice for hashes or stews. Time.— 4 or 5 hours in a cool oven. Seasonable from the middle of September to the end of October. TOMATO SAUCE for Keeping (Excellent). Ingredients. — 3 dozen tomatoes ; to every pound of tomato-pulp allow 1 pint of Chili vinegar, 1 oz. of garlic, 1 oz. of shalot, 2 oz. of salt, 1 large green cap- sicum, ^ teaspoonful of cayenne, 2 pickled gherkins, 6 pickled onions, 1 pint of common vinegar, and the juice of 6 le- mons. Mode. — Choose the tomatoes when quite ripe and red ; put them in a jar with a cover to it, and bake them till tender. The bettor way is to put them in the oven overnight, when it will not be too hot, and examine them in the morning to see if they are tender. Do not allow them to remain in the oven long enough to break them ; but they should be sufficiently soft to skin nicely and rub through the sieve. Measure the pulp, and to each pound of pulp add the above proportion of vinegar and other ingredients, taking care to chop very fine the garlic, shalot, capsicum, onion, and gherkins. Boil the whole together till everything is tender; then again rub it through a sieve, and add the lemon-juice. Now boil the whole again till it becomes as tliick as cream, and keep continually stirring ; bottle it when quite cold, cork well, and seal the corks. If the flavour of garlic and shalot is very much dis- liked, diminish the quantities. Time.— Bake the tomatoes in a cool oven all night. treasonable from the middle of September to the end of October. Nole. — A quantity of liquor will flow from the tomatoes, which must bo put through the sieve with the rest. Keep it well stirred whilst ou the fire, and use a wooden spoon. TOMATO SAUCE, Hot, to serve with Cutlets, Koast Meats, &c. InrjredienU. — 6 tomatoes, 2 shalots, 1 clove, 1 blade of mace, salt and cayenne to taste, \ pint of gravy or .stock. Mode. — Cut the tomatoes in two, and squeeze the juice and seeds out; put them in a stew- pan with all the ingredients, and let thera Tomatoes, Stewed simmer gently until the tomatoes are tender enough to pulp ; rub the whole through a sieve, boil it for a few minutes, and serve. The shalots and spices may be omitted when their flavour is objected to. Time.—1 hour, or rather more, to simmer the tomatoes. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. In full season in Sep- tember and October. TOMATOES, Baked (ExceUent). Ingredients.—8 or 10 tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, bread- crumbs. Mode. — Take off the stalks from the tomatoes ; cut them into thick slices, and put them into a deep baking- dish ; add a plentiful seasoning of pepper and salt, and butter in the above pro- portion ; cover the whole with bread- crumbs ; drop over these a little clarified butter; bake in a modei-ato oven from 20 minutes to h hour, and serve very hot. This vegetable, dressed as above, is an exceedingly nice accompaniment to all kinds of roast meat. The tomatoes, in- stead of being cut in slices, may be baked whole; but they will take rather longer time to cook. Time.—20 minutes to h hour. Average cost, in full season, 9d. per basket. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October j but may be had, forced, much earlier. TOMATOES, Baked (another Mode). Ingredients.—Some bread-crumbs, a little butter, onion, cayenne, and salt. Mode.—Bake the tomatoes whole, then scoop out a small holo at the top; fry the bread crumbs, onion, &c., and fill the holes with this as high up as pos.siblo; then brown the tomatoes with a sala- mander, or in an oven, and take care that the skin does not break. TOMATOES, Stewed. Ingredients.—8 tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Slice the tomatoes into a lined saucepan ; season them with popper and salt, and place small pieces of butter on them. Cover the lid down closely, and stew from 20 to 25 minutes, or until the tomatoes are perfectly tender; add the vinegar, stir two or three times, and serve with any kind of roast moat, with which they will344 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Tomatoes, Stowed bo found a delicious accompaniment. Time.—20 to 25 minutes. Average cost, STEWED TOMATOES. in full season, Qd. per basket. SvJJtcient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to October; but may be had, forced, much earlier. TOMATOES, Stewed. Ingredients.—8 tomatoes, about i pint of good gravy, thickening of butter and flour, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode. —Take out the stalks of the tomatoes ; put them into a wide stewpan, pour over them the above proportion of good brown gravy, and stew gently until they are tender, occasionally carcjully turning them, that they may be equally done. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour worked together on a plate; let it just boil up after the thickening is added, and serve. If it be at hand, these should be served on a silver or plated vegetable-dish. Time.—20 to 25 minutes, very gentle stewing. Average cost, in full season, 9cJ. per basket. Suf- ficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October; but may be had, forced, much earlier. TONGUE, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 tongue, a bunch of sa- voury herbs, water. Mode.—In choosing a tongue, ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth skin, which denotes its being 3'oung and tender. If a dried one, and rather hard, soak it at least for 12 hours previous to cooking it; if, however, it is fresh from the pickle, 2 or 3 hours will be sufficient for it to remain in soak. Put the tongue into a stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs ; let it gradually come to a boil, skim well, and simmer very gently until tender. Peel ofi" the skin, garnish with tufts of cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, and serve. Boiled tongue is frequently sent to table with boiled poultry, instead of ham, and is, by many persons, preferred. If to sei-ve cold, peel it, fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through the top, to straighten it. When cold, glaze it, and Tongue, to Pickle and Dress a put a paper ruciio round the root, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Tirae.— A largo smoked tongue, 4 to 4^ hours ; a small one, 2^ to 3 hours. A large un- smoked tong'ue, 3 to 3 J hours; a small one, 2 to 2.^ hours. Average cost, for a moderate-sized tongue, 3s. Qd, Season- able at any time. TONGUES, to Cure. Ingredients.—For a tongue of 7 lbs., 1 oz. of saltpetre, A oz. of black pepper, -4 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of juniper berries, G oz. of salt. Mode.—Hub the above ingredients well into the tongue, and let it remain in the pickle for 10 days or a fortnight; then drain it, tio it up in brown paper, and have it smoked for about 20 days over a wood fire; or it may be boiled out of this pickle. Time. —From 10 to 14 days to remain in the pickle ; to be smoked 24 days. Average cost, for a medium-sized uncured tongue, 2s. Qd. Seasonable at any time. Note.—If not wanted immediately, the tongue will keep 3 or 4 weeks without being too salt; then it must not be rubbed, but only turned in the pickle. TONGUES, to Cur«. Ingredients.—9 lbs. of salt, 8 oz. of sugar, 9 oz. of powdered saltpetre. Mode. —Rub the above ingredients well into the tongues, and keep them in this curing mixture for 2 months, turning them every day. Drain them from the pickle, cover with brown paper, and have them smoked for about 3 weeks. Time. —The tongues to remain in pickle 2 months ; to be smoked 3 weeks. Snffi- dent.—The above quantity of brine suf- ficient for 12 tongues, of 5 lbs. each. Seasonable at any time. TONGUE, to Pickle and Dress a, to Eat Cold. Ingredients.—G oz. of salt, 2 oz. of bay- salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of coarse sugar; cloves, mace, and allspice totasto; butter, common crust of flour and water. Mode.—L&y the tongue for a fortnight in the above pickle, turn it every day, and be particular that the spices are well pounded; put it into a small pan just large enough to'hold it, place some pieces of butter on it, and cover with acommon crust. "Bake in a slow oven until so tender that a straw would penetrate it;345 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Treacle Pudding, Boiled take oOf tbe skin, fasten it down to a piece of board by running a fork tbrougb the root, and another through the tip, at the same time straightening it and put- ting it into shape. When cold, glaze it, put a paper ruche round the root, which is generally very unsightly, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Time.—From 3 to 4 hours in a slow oven, according to size. Average cost, for a medium-sized uncured tongue, 2s, 6d. Seasonable at any time. TBEACLE PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 lb. of suet crust, | lb. of treacle, J teaspoonful of grated ginger. jJ/otZe.—Make, with 1. lb. of flour, a suet crust by our given recipe, roll it out to the thickness of ^ inch, and spread the treacle equally over it, leaving a small margin where the paste joins ; close the ends securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 2 hours. We have inserted this pudding, being economical, and a favourite one with children ; it is, of course, only suitable for a nursery, or very plain family dinner. Made with a lard instead of a suet crust, it would be very nice baked, and would be suffi- ciently done in from 1.^ to 2 hours. Time.—Boiled pudding, 2^hours; baked pudding, 1.^ to 2 hours. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. TBIFLE, to make a. Ingredients.—For the whip, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of pounded sugai-, the white of 2 eggs, a small glass of sherry or raisin wine. For the trifle, 1 pint of custard, made with 8 eggs to a pint of milk ; 6 small sponge cakes, or 6 slices of sponge-cake ; 12 macaroons, 2 dozen ratafias, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, the ^ated rind of 1 lemon, a layer of rasp- berry or strawberry jam, h pint of sherry or sweet wine, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—The whip to lay over the top of the trifle should ho made the day before it is required for table, as the flavour is better, and it is much moi-e solid than when prepared the same day. Put into a large bowl the pounded sugar, the whites of the eggs, which should be beaten to a stiff froth, a glass of sherry or sweet wine, and the cream. Whisk these ingredients well in a cool place, Trifle, Indian. and take off the froth with a skimmer as fast as it rises, and put it on a sieve to drain ; continue the whisking till there is sufficient of the whip, which must be put away in a cool place to drain. The next day, place the sponge-cakes, macaroons, and ratafias at the bottom of a trifle- dish them ^ pour over pint of sherry or sweet wine, mixed with 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, and, teifle. should this pro- portion of wine not be found quite suffi- cient, add a little more, as the cakes should be well soaked. Over the cakes put the grated lemon-rind, the sweet almonds, tjanched and cut into strips, and a layer of raspberry or strawberry jam. Make a good custard, by recipe, using 8 instead of 5 eggs to the pint of milk, and let this cool a little; then pour it over the cakes, &c. The whip being made the day previously, and the trifle prepared, there remains nothing to do now but heap the whip lightly over the iop : this should stand as high as possible, and it may be garnished with strips of bright currant jelly (see illustra- tion), crystallized sweetmeats, or flowers; the small coloured comfits are sometimes used for the purpose of garnishing a trifle, but they are now considered rather old- fashioned. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 5s. Qd. Sufficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time, TBIFI.E, Indian. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, the rind of ^ large lemon, sugar to taste, 5 heaped tablespoonfuls of rice-flour, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, ^ pint of custard. Mode.—Boil the milk and lemon-rind together until the former is well flavoured; take out the lemon-rind and stir in the rice-flour, which should first be moistened with cold milk, and add sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten it nicely. Boil gently for about 6 minutes, and keep the mix- ture stirred; take it off" the fire, let it cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. When cold, cut the rice out in the form of a star, or any other shape that may be846 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Tripe, to Dress proforred ; take out the spare rice, and fill the space wilh boiled custard. Blanch and cut the almonds into strips ; stick them over the trifle, and garnish it with pieces of bright-coloured jelly, or pre- served fruits, or candied citron. Time.— \ hour to simmer the milk, 5 minutes after the rice is added. Averar/ecosl, Is. Sufficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time. TKIPE, to Dress. Inrjredients.—Tripe, onion sauce, milk and water. Mode.—Ascertain that the tripe is quite fresh, and have it cleaned and dressed. Cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it in equal proportions of milk and water for J hour. Should the tripe be entirely undressed, more than double that time should be allowed'for it. Have ready some onion sauce, made by our given recipe, dish the ti-ipe, smother it with the sauce, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Time.—f hour; for undressed tripe, from 2.^ to three hours. Average cost, Id, per lb. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Tripe may be dressed in a variety of ways : it may be cut in pieces and fried in batter, stewed in gravy with mushrooms, or cut into collops, sprinkled with minced onion and savoury herbs, and fried a nice brown in clarified butter. THOUT, Stewed. Ingredients.—2 middling-sized trout, }, onion cut in thin slices, a little parsley, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of medium stock, 1 glass of port wine, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Wash the fish very clean, and wipe it quite dry. Lay it in a stewpan, with all the ingredients but the butter and flour, and simmer gently for h hour, or rather more, should not the fish be quite done. Take it out, strain the gravy, add the thickening, and stir it over a sharp fire for 6 minutes; pour it over Ibe trout, and sen-e. 2'ime.— According to size, h hour or more. A ver- atje cost.—Seldom'bought. Seasonable from May to September, and fatter from the middle to the end of August than at any other time. Sufficient for 4 persons. Trout may bo served with anchovy or caper sauce, baked in buttered paper, or fried whole liko smelts. Trout dressed i), Truffles, Italian Mode of Dressing la G€n6ve80 is extremely delicate; for this proceed the same as with sal moo, TRUFFLES, to Drese, with Cham- pagne. Ingredients.—12 fine black imf^en, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, a bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 glasses of champagne, A pint of stock. Mode.— Carefully select the truffles, reject those that have a musty smell, and wash them well with a brush, in cold water only, until perfectly clean. Put the bacon into a stewpan, with the truffles and the remaining ingredients ; simmer these gently for an hour, and let the whole cool in the stewpan. When to be served, ro- warra them, and drain them on a cleaa cloth J then arrange them on a delicately white napkin, that it may contrast as strongly as possible with the trufiles, and serve. The trimmings of truSles are used to flavour gravies, stock, sauces, &c. ; and are an excellent addition to ■ ragofits, made dishes of fowl, &c. Time. —1 hour. Average cost.—Not ofteu . bought in this country. Seasonable from > November to March. TRUFFLES A L'lTALIENITE. higredienls.—10 truffles, 1 tablespoon-' ful of minced parsley, 1 minced shalot, salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of good brown gravy, the juice of h lemon, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Wash the truffles and cut them ; into slices about the size of a penny- piece ; put them into a frying-pan, with the parsley, shalot, salt, pepper, and 1 oz. of butter; stir them over the fire, that they may all be equally done, whicli will be in about 10 minutes, and drain of! some of the butter; then add a little more fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, the juice of lemon, and a little cayenne; stir over the fire until the whole is on the point of boiling, when serve. Time.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average cos<.—Not ofteu bought in this- country. Seasonable from November to March. TRUFFLES, ItaUan Mode of Dressing. Ingredients.—10 tnifflos, i pint of s£^lad-oil, pepper and salt to taste, j:|The DICTlONAHY OF COOKERY. 317 Truffles au Naturel tablespoonful of minced parsley, a very- little finely minced garlic, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice. Mode.—After cleansing and brush- ing the truflBes, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a baking-dish, on a seasoning of oil, pepper, salt, parsley, garlic, and mace in the above proportion. Bake them for nearly an hour, and, j ust before serving, add the lemon-juice, and send them to table very hot. Time.— Nearly 1 hour. Average cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. TKTTFFLES AU NATUBEL. Ingredients.—Truffles, buttered paper. Mode.—Select some fine truffles ; cleanse them, by washing them in several waters with a brush, until not a particle of sand or grit remains on them; wrap each truffle in buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for quite an hour; take off the paper, wipe the truffles, and serve them in a hot napkin. Time.—Ihour. Average cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. TTJKBOT. In choosing turbot see that it is thick, and of a yellowish white; for if of a bluish tint, it is not good. The tui-bot- kettle, as will be seen by our cut, is made ■J L EDOT-KETTLE. difTerently from ordinary fish kettles, it being less deep, whilst it is wider, and more pointed at the sides ; thus exactly answering to the shape of the fish which it is intended should be boiled in it. TUBBOT, Boiled. Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Choose a middling- Bizcd turbot; for they are invariably the most valuable: if vei-y large, the meat will be tough and thready. Three or four hours before dressing, soak the fish in salt and water to tako off the slime ; then thoroughly cleanse it, and with a knife make an incision down the middle Turbot & la Creme of the back, to prevent the skin of the belly from cracking. Rub it over with lemon, and be particular not to cut off the fins. Lay the fish in a very clean turbot-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and salt in the above propor- tion. Lot it gradually come to a boil, and skim veiy carefully ; keep it gently simmering, and on no account let it boil fast, as the fish would have a very- unsightly appearance. When the meat separates easily from the bone, it is done ; then take it out, let it drain well, and dish it on a hot napkin. Rub a little lobster spawn through a sieve, sprinkle it over the fish, and garnish with tufts of parsley and cut lemon. Lobster or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should bo sent to table with it. Time.—After the water boils, about ^ hour for a large turbot; middling size, about 20 minutes. Average cost,—large turbot, from IO5. to I2s. ; middling size, from 12s. to. 15s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, .1 middling-sized tm-bot for 8 persons. TURBOT, to Help. First run the fish-slice do-wn the thick- est part of the fish lengthwise, quite through to the bone, and then cut hand- some and regular slices across the fish until all the meat on the upper side is helped. When the carver has removed all the meat from the upper side of the fish, the backbone should be raised, put on one side of the dish, and the under side helped as the upper. TIIB.BOT A LA CREME. Ingredients. — The remains of cold turbot. For sauco, 2 oz. of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste. Mode.—Clear away all skiu and bone from the flesh of the turbot, which should be done when it comes from table, as it causes less waste when trimmed hot. Cut the flesh into nice square pieces, as equally as possible ; put into a stewpan the butter, let it melt, and add the cream and seasoning; let it just simmer for one minute, but not boil. Lay in the fish to warm, and servo it garnished with crofltons or a paste border. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of cold salmon may- be dressed in this way, and the above mixture may be served in a vol-aii-vent.•THE DICTlOlJARY OF COOKKR"?. 348 Turbot, Bakod Fillets of TUKBOT, Baked Fillets of. Ingredients. — Tho remains of cold turbot, lobster sauce loft from the pro- ceding day, egg, and bread-crumbs; cayenne and salt to taste ; minced pars- ley', nutmeg, lemon-juice. Mode.—After having cleared the fish from all skin and bone, divide it into square pieces of an equal size ; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sviffieicnt butter to baste with. Bake for \ hour, and do not forget to keep them well moistened with the butter. Put a little lemon-juice and grated nutmeg to the cold lobster sauce ; make it hot, and pour over the fish, which must be well drained from tlic butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Time. —Altogether, h hour. Seasonable at any time. Hoie.—Cold turbot thus warmed in the remains of lobster Fauce will be found much nicer than putting the fish again in water. TURBOT A Ii'ITALIENNE, FiUets of. Ingredients. — The remains of cold tm-bot, Italian sauce. Mode. — Clear the fish carefully from the bone, and take away all skin, which gives an un- pleasant flavour to the sauce. Make the sauce hot, lay in the fish to warm through, but do not let it boil. Garnish •with croMons. Time.—5 minutes. Sea- sonahle all tho year, TURBOT, or other Large Fish, Garnish, for. Take the crumb of a stale loaf, cut it into small pyramids with flat tops, and on the top of each pyramid put rather more than a tablespoonful of white of egg beaten to a stiif froth. Over this, sprinkle finely-chopped parsley and fine raspings of a dark colour. Arrange these on the napkin round the fish, one green and one brown alternately, TURBOT AU GRATIN. higredieiits.—Tiomnins of cold turbot, bechamel {see Sauces), bread-crumbs, butter. Mode. —Cnt the fish of tho turbot into small dice, carefully freeing it from all skin and bona. Put them Ti^rkey, Boiled into a stewpan, and moisten with 4 or tablespoonfuls of bechamel. Let it p thoroughly hot, but do not allow it i boil. Spread tho mixture on a disi cover with finely-grated bread-cruml and place small pieces of butter o\ the top. Brown it in the oven, or wiiL salamander. Time.—Altogether, J hou; Seasonable at any time. TURKEY, Boiled. Ingredients. — Turkey ; forcemc-a Choosing and Trussing.—Hen turkeys ;i: preferable for boiling, on account of tL whiteness and tendeniess, and one ■ moderate size should be selected, as large one is not suitable for this mode cooking. They should not be drcs> until they have been killed 3 or 4 da as they will neither look white, nor v they be tender. Pluck the bird, ca fully draw, and singe it with a pi-, of white paper ; wash it inside and o . and wipe it thoroughly dry with a ch ti Cut off the head and neck, draw tl strings or sinews of the thighs, and c\ off the legs at the first joint; draw 11 legs into the body, fill the breast wit forcemeat; run a skewer through th- B0II.BD hjeket. wing and the middle joint of the lef ji quite into the leg and wing on tho oppi ij site side ; break the breastbone, an (! make the bird look as round and as con jj pact as possible. Mode.—Put the turkc ji into sufficient/iO< water to cover it; let l| come to a boil, then carefully remove a 1| the scum : if this is attended to, there Jj no occasion to boil the bird in a flourc i\ cloth ; but it should be well covered w; the water. Let it simmer very crently about hour to hour, according to : size, ami serve with cither white, celt ; oyster,or mushroom sauce, orparsley-s: butter, a little of which sliould be poi:: over the turkey. Boiled ham, bac tongue, or pickled pork, shoiJd always company this dish; and when oyster sam jj is served, tho turkey should bo stuffc.« with oyster forcemeat. Time.—A smoil turkey, hour; a largo one, lj| brn»TflE DICTIONAEY op COOKERl?. 349 Turkey, Croquettes of Average cost, 5s. 6d. to 7s. Qd. each, but more expensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from December to February. rURKET. Croquettes of (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients. — The remains of cold turkey ; to every \ lb. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham or bacon, 2 shalots, 1 oz, of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.— fhe smaller pieces, that will not do for a fricassee or hash, answer very well for this dish. Mince the meat finely with ham or bacon in the above proportion; make a gravy of the bones and trimmings, well seasoning it; mince the shalots, put them into a stewpan with the butter, add the flour; mix well, then put in the mince, and about h pint of the gravy made from the bones. (The proportion of the butter must be increased or di- minished according to the quantity of minco.) When just boiled, add the yolks of 2 eggs ; put the mixture out to' cool, and then shape it in a wineglass. Cover the croquettes with egg and bread- crumbs, and fry them a delicate brown. Put small pieces of parsley-stems for stalks, and serve with rolled bacon cut very thin. Time.—8 minutes to fry the croquettes. Seasonable from December to February. TURKEY, Fricasseed (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast or boiled turkey; a strip of lemon-peel, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, the yolk of an egg. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from the remains of a cold turkej', and put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with the lemon-peel, herbs, onion, pep- er, salt, and the water; stew for an our, strain the gravy, and lay in the pieces of turkey. When warm through, add the cream and the yolk of an egg; stir it well round, and, when getting thick, take out the pieces, lay them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish tho fricassee with sippets of toafetftd bread. Celery or cucumbers, cut into small pieces, may bo put into the sauce j if the former, it must be Turkey, Boast boiled first. Time.—I hoiu- to make tho gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the cold turkey, id. Seasonable from De- cember to February. TURKEY, Hashed. higredients.—^The remains of cold roas turkey, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 car- rot, 1 turnip, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port wine, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—G\it the turkey into neat joints; the best pieces reserve for the hash, the inferior joints and trimmings put into a stewpan with an onion cut in slices, pepper and salt, a carrot, turnip, mace, herbs, and water in the above proportion; simmer these for an hour, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, flavour with ketchup and port wine, and lay in the pieces of turkey to warm through ; if there is any stuSing left, put that in also, as it so much improves the flavour of the gravy. When it boils, servo, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy. Sea' sonable from December to February. TURKEY, Roast. Ingredients. — Turkey ; forcemeat. Choosing and Trussing. —Choose cock turkeys by their short spurs and black legs, in which case they are young; if the spiu-s are long, and the legs pale and rough, they are old. If the bird has been long killed, the eyes will appear sunk and the feet very dry ; but, if fresh, the contrary will be the case. Middling- sized fleshy turkeys are by many per- sons considered superior to those of an immense growth, as they are, generally speaking, much more tender. They should never be dressed the same day they are killed; but, in cold weather, should hang at least 8 days; if the wea- ther is mild, 4 or 5 days will be found sufficient. Carefully pluck the bird, singe it with white paper, and wipe it thoroughly with a cloth; draw it, pre- serve the liver and gizzard, and be parti- cular not to break the gall-bag, as no washing will remove the bitter taste it imparts where it once touches. Wash it inside well, and wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth; the outside merely rcquireaTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKER?. 350 Turkey, Roast nicely wiping, as we havo just stated. Cut off the neck close to the back, but leave enough of the crop-skin to turn over; break the leg-bone close below the knee, draw out the strings from the thighs, and flatten the breastbone to make it look plump. Have ready a forcemeat; fill the breast with this, and, if a trussing-needle is used, sew the neck over to the back; if a needle is not at hand, a skewer will answer the purpose. Run a skewer through the pinion and thigh into the body to the pinion and thigh on the other side, and press the BOAST TUEKBT. legs as much as possible between the breast and the side-bones, and put the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other. Pass a string across the back of the bird, catch it over the points of the skewer, tie it in the centre of the back, and be particular that the turkey is very firmly trussed. This may bo more easily accomplished with a needle and twine than witb skewers. Mode.—Fasten a sheet of buttered paper on to the breast of the bird, put it down to a bright fire, at some little distance at first (afterwards draw it nearer), anri keep it well basted the whole of the tim it is cooking. About | hour before e.vinj^, remove the paper, dredge the turkey lightly with Hour, and put a piece of butter into the basting-ladle; as the butter melts, baste the bird with it. When of a nice brown and well frothed, serve with a tureen of good brown gravy and one of bread sauce. Fried sausages arc a favourite addition to roast turkey ; tlicy make a pretty garnish, besides adding very much to the flavour. When these are not at hand, a few force- moat balls should be placed round the dish as a garnish. Turlcey may also bo stufl'ed with sausage-meat, and a chest- nut forcemeat with the chestnut sauce is, by many persons, very much esteemed as an accompaniment to this favourite dish* Time.—Small turkey, hour ; moderate-sized one, about 10 lbs., 2 hours ; large turkey, 2^ hours, or longer. Average cost, from lOil to 12s., but ex- Turkey Poults, Roast pensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. SufficieiU.—A moderate- sized turkey for 7 or 8 persons, fieason- able from December to February. TURKEY, Roast. A noblo dish is a turkey, roast or boiled. A Christmas dinner, with the middle-classes of this empire, would scarcely be a Christmas dinner without its turkey ; and we can hardly imagino an object of greater envy than is pre- sented by a respected portly pater- familias carving, at the season devoted to good cheer and genial charity, his own fat turkey, and carving it well. The ouly art consists, as in the carving of a goose, in getting from the breast as many fine slices as possible ; and all must havo remarked the very great diflerence in the large number of people whom a good carver will find slices for, and the com- paratively few that a bad carver will succeed in serving. As we have stated BOAST TUBKET. in both the carving of a duck and goose, the carver should commence cutting slices to the wing, from 2 to 3, and then proceed upwards towards the ridge of the breastbone: this is not the usual plan, but, in practice, will be found the best. The breast is the only part which IS looked on as fine in a turkey, the legs beii:g very seldom cut oQ" and eaten at table : they are usually removed to the kitchen, where they are taken off, as hero mai-kcd, to appetir only in a form which seems to have a special attraction at a ■ bachelor's supper-table,—wo mean ilo- villcd : served in this waj', they are espo- cially liked and relished. A boiled tur- key is carved in the same manner as • when roasted. TURKEY POULTS, Roast. Ingredients.—Turkey poult; butter. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose a plump ■ bird, and truss it in the foUonnng man- ■ nor:—After it has been carefully plucked, drawn, and singed, skin the neck, and. fasten the bead under the wing; turn ih« iTHE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 351 Turkey Soup ! cgs at the first joint, and bring the feet close to the thighs, as a woodcock should ■ he trussed, and do not slitff^ it. Mode.— Put it down to a bright fire, keep it well basted, and at first place a piece of paper on the breast to prevent its taking too much colour. About 10 minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with floui', and baste well; when nicely frothed, send it to table immediately, with a little gravy in the dish, and some in a tureen. If at hand, a few water-cresses may be placed round the turkey as a garnish, or it may be larded. Time.—About 1 hour. Aver- ai/e cost, 7s. to S.t. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—In full sea- son from Juno to October, TUEKEY SOUP (a 'Seasonable Dish at Christmas). Ingredients.—2 quarts of medium stock, the remains of a cold roast turkey, 2 oz. of 1 ice-flour or arrowroot, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ketchup. Mode.— Cut up the turkey in small pieces, and put it in the stock ; let it simmer slovrly until the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out, and work the soup through a sieve ; when cool, skim well. Mix the rice-flour or arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup; add it with the sea- soning and sauce, or ketchup. Give one boil, and serve. Time.—4 hours. Aver- age cost, lOd. per quart. Seasonable at Christmas. Svfficient for 8 persons. Note.—Instead of thickening this soup, vermicelli o. macaroni may be served in it. TUENIPSOUP Incjredieais.—S oz. of butter, 9 good- sized tuniips, 4 onions, 2 quarts of stock, seasoning to taste. J/oc/e. — Melt the buitcr in the stcwpan, but do not let it boil; wash, drain, and slice the turnips and onions very thin ; put them -in the butter, with a teacupful of stock, and stew very gently for an hour. Then add the remainder of the stock, and simmer another hour. Paib it through a tammy, put it back into the stewpau, but do not let it boil. Serve very hot. Time.—2h hours. Avcrar/e cost, Sd.-per qntirt. Sea', sonable from October to March, S^iffi. cicvt for 8 jjcrsons. iVofe.—By adding a little cream, this poup will be much improved. Turnips, Mashed TURNIPS, BoUed. Ingredients. — Turnips ; to each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt. Mode. — Pare the turnips, and, should they be very large, divide them into quarters ; but, imless this is the case, let them be cooked whole. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and let them boil gently until tender. Try them with a fork, and, when done, take them up in a colander; let them thoroughly drain, and serve. Boiled turnips are usually sent to table with boiled mutton, but are infinitely nicer when mashed than served whole: unless nice and young, they are scarcely worth tho trouble of dressing plainly as above, Time.—Q\A turnips, ^- to ]| hour; young ones, about 18 to 20 minutes. Average cost, id. per bunch. Sufficient.—Allow a bunch of 12 turnips for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—May be had all the year; but in spring only useful for flavouring gravies, &c. TURNIPS, German Mode of Cooking, Ingredients.—8 large turnips, 3 oz, of butter, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than ^ pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Mode.—Make the butter hot in a stewpan, lay in the turnips, after having pared and cut them into dice, and season them with pepper and salt. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then add the broth, and simmer the whole gently till the turnips are tender. Brown the above proportion of flour with a little butter; add this to the turnips, let them simmer another 6 minutes, and serve. Boiled mutton is usually sent to table with this vegetable, and may be cooked with tho turnips by placing it in the midst of them: the meat would then be very deUcious, as, there being so little liquid with tho tur- nips, it would almost be steamed, and, consequently, very tender. jPtmc—20 minutes. Aveo-age cost, id. per bunch. Svfficient for 4 persons. Seasonable,—' May be had all the year, TURNIPS, Mashed, Ingredients.—10 or 12 large turnips; to each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, Cayenne or white paper to tasto. Mode.^THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 8o2 Turnips in White Sauce Pare the turnips, quarter them, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; boil them until tender; then drain them in a colander, and squeeze them as dry as possible by pressing thom with the back of a large plate. When quite free from water, rub the turnips with a wooden spoon through the colander, and put tbem into a very clean saucepan; add the butter, white pepper, or cayenne, and, if necessary, a little salt. Keep stirring them over the fire until the butter is well mixed with them, and the turnips are thoroughly hot; dish, and serve. A little cream or milk added after the turnips are pressed through the colander, is an improvement to both the colour and flavour of this vegetable. Time.—From i to | hour to boil the turnips; 10 minutes to warm them through. Average, cost, M, per bunch. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. SeasonaUe.—Maybe had all the year; but in early spring only good for flavouring gravies. TUBNIPS TN WHITE SAUCE. (An Entremets, or to be served with the Second Course as a Side- dish.) of Ingredients.—7 or 8 turnips, 1 oa butter, I pint of white sauce. Mode.— Peel and cut the turnips in the shape of pears or marbles ; boil them in salt and water, to which has been added a little butter, until tender; then take them out, drain, ai'range them on a dish, and pour over the white sauce made by either of the recipes, and to which has been added a small lump of sugar. In winter, when other vegetables are scarce, this will be found a very good and pretty- when approved, a little be added to the sauce. I hour to boil the turnips. id. per bunch. Sufficient SeasonaUe in winter. looking dish: mustard may Time.—About A'verage cost, tor 1 side dish. VANILLA CTJSTABD SAUCE, to serve with Puddings. Inqredienls.—\ pint of milk, 2 eggs, 2 cz. of sugar, 10 drops of essence of vanilla. jJ/ode.—Beat the eggs, sweeten the milk ; etir these ingredients well together, and flavour them with essence of vanilla, regulating the proportion of this latter ingredient by the strength of the essence, the Bize of the eggs, &c. Put the mixture Veal, Breast of, to Carve into a small jug, place this jug in a sauce pan of boiling water, and stir the sauc one way until it thickens; but do nc allow it to boil, or it will instantl curdle. Serve in a boat or tureen sepai rately, with plum, bread, or any kincf c dry pudding. Essence of bitter almond or lemon-rind may be substituted for tbJ vanilla, when they are more in accordanc with the flavouring of the pudding witv which the sauce is intended to be served! Time.—To be stirred in t'ao jug from to 10 minutes. Average cost, id. Su^ dent for 4 or 5 persons, VEAL, Baked (Cold Meat Cookery/) Ingredients.—^ lb, of cold roast veal, few slices of baoon, 1 pint of breaci crumbs, ^ pint of good veal gravy, teaspoontul of minced lemon-peel, 1 bladi of pounded mace, cayenne and salt t; taste, 4 eggs. Mode.—Mince finely thii veal and bacon; add the bread-crumbee gravy, and seasoning, and stir thes^ ingredients well together. Beat up th eggs thoroughly; add these, mix thai whole well together, put into a dish, ana br.ke from | to 1 hour. When liked, little good gravy may be served in tureen as an accompaniment. Time.— from 5 to 1 hour. Avei'age cost, exclusive of the cold meat, Qd. Sufficient for 3 ca 4 persons. Seasonable from March tl October, f VEAL, Boast Breast of. Ingredients. — Veal ; a little flo Mode.—W&sh. the veal, well wipe it, am dredge it with flour; put it down to f|<i bright fire, not too near, as it should nc be scorched. Baste it plentifully unt' done ; dish it, pour over the meat som good melted butter, and send to tabl' with it a piece of boiled bacon and a ci lemon. Time.—From 1^ to 2 hourf«j. Average cost, S^d. per lb. Sufficient fc j^ 5 or 6 persons, " ScasonahU from M; to October. ||] VEAL, Breast of, to Carve. The car%nng of a breast of veal is nci dissimilar to that of a fore-quarter <^ lamb, when the shoulder has been tak«l olF. The breast of veal consists ot tx parts, — the rib-bones and the grist brisket. These two parts should first H separated by sharplv passing the knif in the direction of the linos 1, 2; whe853 Tfil2 DlCTiONAllY Of COOEEHY. Veal, Stewed Breast of, and Peas they are entirely divided, the rib-bones should be carved in the direction of the lines 6 to 6 ; and the brisket can be helped by cutting pieces m the direction SBBi.ST OV VSiXi. 3 to 4, The carver should ask the guests whether they have a preference for the brisket or ribs; and if there be a sweetbread served with the dish, as it often is with roast breast of veal, each pei'son should receive a piece. VEAL, Stewed Breast of, and Peas. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, 2 oz. of butter, a bunch of savoury herbs, in- cluding parsley; 2 blades of pouuded mace, 2 cloves, 5 or 6 young onions, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 6 allspice, \ tea- spoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonlul of salt, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 2 tablespoon- fuls of tomato sauce, 1 tablespoonfid of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup, green peas. Mode.—Cut the breast in half, after removing the bone underneath, and divide the meat into convenient-sized pieces. Put the butter into a frying-pan, lay in the pieces of veal, and fry until of a nice brown co- lour. Now place these in a stewpan with the herbs, mace, cloves, onions, lemon- peel, allspice, and seasoning; pour over them just sufficient boiling water to cover the meat; well close the lid, and let the whole simmer very gently for about 2 hours. Strain off as much gi'avy tts is required, thicken it with butter and flour, add the remaining ingredients, skim well, let it simmer for about 10 minutes, then pour it over the meat. Have ready somo green peas, boiled separately ; sprinkle these over the veal, and serve. It may bo garnished with forcemeat balls, or rashers of bacon curled and fried. Instead of cutting up the meat, many persons prefer it dressed whole ; — in that case it should bo half- roasted before the water, &c. are put to it. Time.—2\howY3. Avera(;: cost, S},d. Sufficient for 6 or G persons. Ccasnndble from lilarch to October. Veal, Curried VEAL, la Bourgeoise (Excellent). Ingredients.—2 to 3 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 10 or 12 young carrots, b bunch of green onions, 2 slices of lean bacon, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, a few new potatoes, 1 pint of green peas. Mode.—Cut the veal into cutlets, trim them, and put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little butter ; lay in the cutlets and fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. Add the bacon, carrots, onions, spice, herbs, and season- ing ; pour in about a pint of boiling water, and stew gently for 2 hours on a very slow fire. When done, skim off the fat, take out the herbs, and flavour the gravy with a little tomato sauce and ketchup. Have ready the peas and potatoes, boiled separately; put them with the veal, and serve. Time.— 2 hours. Average cost, 2s. 9cZ. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from June to August with peas; — rather earlier when these are omitted. VEAL CAKE (a Convenient Dish for a Picnic). Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 2 hard- boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a little pepper, good gravy. Mode.—Cut off all the brown outside from the veal, and cut the eggs into slices. Procure a pretty mould ; lay veal, ham, eggs, and parsley in layers, with a little pepper between each, and when the mould is full, get some strong stock, and fill up the shape. Bake for h hour, and when cold, tuim it out. Time.—^ hour. Seasonable at any time. VEAL, Curried (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Hhs, remains of cold roast veal, 4 onions, 2 apples sliced, 1 table- spoonful of curry-powder, 1 dessertspoon, ful of flour, I pint of broth or water, 1 tablespoon ful of lemon-juice. Mode, —Slice the onions and apples, and frj them in a little butter ; then take then out, cut the meat into neat cutlets, and fry these of a pale brown :, add the curry- powder and flour, put in the onion, apples, and a little liroth or water, and stew gently till quite tender; add tne lomon-jnice, and serve with an edging of 12851 THE DlCTIONAllY OP COOKERlf. VEAIi CUILET3, Veal Cutlets (an Entree) boiled rice. The curry may bo orna- mented with pickles, capsicums, and gherkins, arranged prettily on the top. Time..—^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL CUTLETS (an Entree). Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of the prime part of the leg of veal, egg and bread- crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of minced sa- voury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, a small piece of l:)utter. Mode.—Have the veal cut into slices about ^ of an inch in thickness, and, if not cut perfectly even, level the meat with a cutlet-bat or rolling-pin. Shape and trim the cutlets, and brush them over with egg. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, with which have been mixed minced herbs and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and press the crumbs down. Fry them of a delicate brown in fresh lard or butter, and be careful not to burn them. They should be very thoroughly done, but not dry. If the cutlets be thick, keep the pan covered for a few minutes at a good distance Irom the fire, after they have acquired a good colour: by this means, the meat will be done through. Lay the cutlets in a dish, keep them hot, and make a gravy in the pan as follows :—Dredge in a little flour, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, brown it, then pour as much boiling water as is required over it, season with pepper and salt, add a little Icmon-juico, give one boil, and pour it over the cut- lets. They should be garnished with slices of broiled bacon, and a few force- meat balls will be found a very excellent addition to this dit^h. Time.—For cut- lets of a moderate thickness, about 12 minutes ; if very thick, allow more time. Average cost, \Qd. per lb. Svjiicient for G persons. Seasonable from Miuroh to October. Note.—Veal cutlets may bo merely floured and fried of a nice brown : tbo gravy and garnishing should bo the same as in iho precuiling reci|iO. They may also bo cut from the loia or nock, as ■howD in the engraving. Veal, Fillet of, au Bechamel 1 VEAL CUTLETS, BroUed, & j Italienno (an Entr6e). Ingredients.—Neck of veal, salt atj pepper to taste, the yolk of 1 egg, brea« crumbs, ,^ pint of Italian sauce. Mom —Cut the veal into cutlets, flatten axj trim them nicely; powder over them little salt and pepper; brush them ov with the yolk of an egg, dip them bread-crumbs, then into clarified butteJ and, afterwards, in the bread-crumM again ; boil or f ry them over a clear fini that they may acquire a good brovj colour. Arrange them in the dish alt nately with rashers of broiled ham, an pour the sauce (made by recipe for It sauce, p. 305) in the middle. Time.— to 15 minutes, fCCOi'ding to the thicl of the cutlets. A vcrage cost, \Qd. perl Seasonable from March to October, VEAL CUTLETS, h la Mainteno (an Entree). Ingredien ts.—2 or 3 lbs. of veal cutlet: egg and bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfi of minced savoury herbs, salt and pepp- to taste, a little grated nutmeg. Mo -Cut the cutlets about i inch in thiu ness, flatten them, and brush them ov j| .- with the yolk of an egg ; dip them in:.^': bread-crumbs and minced herbs, seasi with pepper and salt and prated nutme* and fold each cutlet in a piece of butter- paper. Broil them, and send them table with melted butter or a good graW Time.—From 15 to 18 minutes. Avert cost, \0d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 o; persons. Seasonable from March October. VEAL, Fillet of, au B^chaitn (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, pint of b(^chamcl sauce, a few brer crumbs, clarified butter. Mode.—A fil . of veal that has been roasted the p n ceding day will answer very well for t' dish. Cat the middle out rather de< leaving a pood margin round, from whi to cut nice slices, and if there should any cracks in the veal, fill them up w forcemeat. Jlince finely the meat tl was taken out, mixing with it a little the forcemeat to flavour, and stir to sufl^icient bdcliamol to make it of jiroper consistency. Warm the veal the oven for about an hour, takiii;,' a to baste it woll, that it may P"t be dr.THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 35S Veal, Hoast Fillet of put the mince in the place where the meat was taken out, sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over it, and drop a httle clarified butter on the bread-crumbs; put it into the oven for ^ hour to brown, and pour bechamel round the sides of the dish. Tt'me.—Altogether 1.^ hour. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Boast Fillet of. Ingredients.—Veal, forcemeat, melted butter. Mode.—Have the fillet cut ac- cording to the size requu'ed ; take out the bone, and after raising the skin from the meat, put under the flap a nice force- meat. Prepare sufBcieut of this, as there should be ^ome left to eat cold, and to season and flavour a mince if required. Skewer and bind the veal up in a SILLEX OF TXAIi. round form; dredge well with flour, put it down at some distance from the fire at first, and baste continu- ally. About ^ hour before serving, draw it nearer the fire, that it may acquire more colour, as the outside should be of a rich brown, but not burnt. Dish it, remove the skewers, which replace by a silver one ; pour over the joint some good melted buttei-, and serve with either boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork. Never omit to send a cut lemon to table with roast veal. Time.—A fillet of veal weighing 12 lbs., about 4 hours. Aver- age cost, dd. per lb. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, FiUet of. The carving of this joint is similar to that of a round of beef. Slices, not too thick, in the direction of the line 1 to 2 are cut; and the only point to bo careful about is, that the veal be evenly carved. Between the flap and the meat the stuffing is insertedj and Veal, Fricandeau of riUBT OV VBAI/. a small portion of this should be served to eveiy guest. The persons whom the host wishes most to honour should be asked if they like the delicious brown outside slice, as this, by many, is exceed- ingly relished. VEAL, Stewed Fillet of. Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, forcemeat, thickening of butter and flour, a few mushrooms, white pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, 2 blades of pounded mace, h glass of sherry Mode.—If the whole of the leg is pur- chased, take ofl" the knuckle to stew, and also the square end, which will serve for cutlets or pies. Remove the bone, and fill the space with a forcemeat. Roll and skewer it up firmly ; i^lace a few skewers at the bottom of a stewpan to prevent the meat from sticking, and cover the veal with a little weak stock. Let it simmer vary gently until tender, as tha- more slowly veal is stewed, the better. Strain and thicken the sauce, flavour it with lemon-juice, mace, sherry, and whit© pepper; give one boil, and pour it over the meat. The skewers should be re- moved, and I'eplaced by a sQver one, and the dish garnished with slices of cut lemon. Time.—A fillet of veal weighing 6 lbs., 3 hours' very gentle stewing. Average cost, 9cZ. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Fricandeau of (an Entr6e). Ingredients.—A piece of the fat side of a leg of veal (about 3 lbs.), lardoons, 2 carrots, 2 large onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 6 whole allspice, 2 bay-leaves, pepper to taste, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 pint of stock. Mode. —The veal for a ruiCANDEATJ OH VEAIi. fricandeau should be of the best quality, or it will not be good. It may be known by the meat being white and not thready. Take off the skin, flatten the Teal on tho35G TEE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 2 blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful of salfl' (Jd. .Siillicienl for an entr(Jo, Season- Veal, Fricandeau of table, then at ono stroko of tlio knife, cut off as much as is rciiuired, for a fricandeau witli an uneven surface never looks well. Trim it, and with a sharp knifo make two or three slits in the middle, that it may tasto more of the seasoning. Now lard it thickly with fat bacon, as lean pives a red colour to the fricandeau. Slice the vegetables, and put these, with the herbs and spices, in the middle of a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon at the top : these should form a sort of mouud in the centre for the veal to rest upon. Lay the frican- deau over the bacon, sprinkle over it a little salt, and 23our in just sufBcient stock to cover the bacon, &c., without touching the veal. Let it gradually come to a boil; then put it over a slow and equal fire, and let it simmer very gently for about 2^ hours, or longer should it be very large. Baste it frequently with the liquor, and a short time before serving, put it into a brisk oven, to make the bacon firm, which otherwise would break when it was glazed. Dish the fricandeau, keep it hob, skim off the fat from the liquor, and reduce it quickly to a glaze, with which glaze the fricandeau, and serve with a pur^e of whatever vegetable happens to be in season—spinach, sorrel, asparagus, cucumbers, peas, &c. Time. —2| hours. If very large, allow more time. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonahle from March to October. VEAIi, Fricandeau of (more econo- mical). Ingredients.—The best end of a neck of veal (about 2i lbs.), lardoons, 2 car- rots, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little whole white pepper, a few slices of fat bacon. Mode.—Cut away the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal with a sharp knife, scooping it from the bones. Put the bones in with a little water, which will serve to moisten the frican- deau: they should stow about 1^ hour. Lard the veal, proceed in the same way as in the preceding recipe, and be care- ful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau. Stew very gently for 3 tours; glaze, and serve it on sorrel, apinach, or with a little gravy in the dish. Tivie.—3 hours. Average cost, able from Maroh to October. Veal, Stewed Knuckle of, and Bit KNUCKLB OF VEAL. Note.—When the prime part of tl leg is cut off, it spoils the whole; c- Bcqucntly, to use this for a fricando. is rather extravagant. The best end the neck answers the purpose nearly (: quite as welL VEAI/, to Carve a Knuckle of. The engraving, showing the dotte^ line from 1 to 2, sufliciontly indi- cates the direc- tion which should \>3 given to the knife in carvingthisdish. The best slices are those from the thickest part of the knuckle, that is, outside the li' 1 to 2. VEAL, to Eagout a Knuckle of. Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, peppr and salt to taste, flour, 1 onion, 1 head i celeiy, or a little celery-seed, a faggot ■ savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mac thickening of butter and flour, a fe young carrots, 1 tablespoonful of tomn' sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, t' juice of h lemon. Mode.—Cut the me from a knuckle of veal into neat slice season with pepper and salt, and dred them with flour. Fry them in a lit; butter of a pale brown, and put th' into a stewpan with the bone (whi should be chopped in several places add the celery, herbs, mace, and carrot pour over all about 1 pint of hot watc and let it simmer very gently for 2 honi ■ over a slow but clear fire. Take out tl slices of meat and carrots, strain an thicken the gravy with a little butt rolled in flour ; add the remaining ingr. dients, give one boil, put back the mcc and carrots, let these get hot througl i and serve. When in season, a few gree peas, hoiled separafelj/, and added to th' dish at the moment of sen-ing, would t found a very agreeable addition. Tint' ■ —2 hours. Average cost, 5d. to 6d. pe lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. VEAL, Stewed Knuckle of, ami Eice. Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, 1 onio; j lb. of rice. Mode.—Have the knuckl id \THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 357 Veal, Koast Loin ©f cut small, or cut some cutlets from it, that it may be just large enough to be eaten the same day it is dressed, as cold boiled veal is not a particularly tempting dish. Break the shank-bone, wash it clean, and put the meat into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it gi-adually come to a boil, put in the salt, and remove the scum as fast as it rises. When it has simmered gently for KNUCKLE OF VEAL. about I hour, add the remaining ingre- dients, and stew the whole gently for 2| hours. Put the meat into a deep dish, pour over it the rice, &c., and send boiled bacon, and a tiireen of parsley and butter to table with it. Time.—A. knuckle of veal weighing 6 lbs., 3 hours' gentle stewing. Average cost, 5d. to 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle from March to October. Note. — Macaroni, instead of rice, boiled with the veal, will be found good; or the rice and macaroni may be omitted, and the veal sent to table smothered in parsley and butter. VEAL, Hoast Loin of. Ingredients. — Veal; melted butter. Mode. — Paper the kidney fat; roll in and skewer the flap, which makes the joint a good shape ; dredge it well with flour, and put it down to a bright fire. Should the loin be very large, skewer the kidney back for a time to roast thoroughly. Keep it well basted, and a short time before serving, remove the paper from the k\dney, and allow it to acquire a nice brown colour, but it should not be burnt. Have ready somo melted butter, put it into the dripping-pan after it is emptied of its contents, pour it over Veal, to Carve Loin of the veal, and serve. Garnrsh the dish with slices of lemon and forcemeat balls, and send to table with it boiled bacon, ham, pickled pork, or pig's cheek. Time. —A large loin, 3 hours. Average cost, Qld. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—A piece of toast should bo placed under the kidneys when the veal is dished. VEAL, Loin of, au Bechamel (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Loin of veal, ^ teaspoon- ful of minced lemoa-peel, rather more than I pint of bechamel or white sauce. Mode.—A loin of veal which has come from table with very little taken off, answers well for this dish. Cut off the meat from the inside, mince it, and mix with it some minced lemon-peel; put it into sufficient bechamel to warm it through. In the mean time, wrap the joint in buttered paper, and place it in the oven to warm. When thoroughly hot, dish the mince, place the loin above it, and pour over the remainder of the bechamel. Time.—1^ hour to warm the meat in the oven. Seasonahle from March to October. VEAL, Loin of, a la Daube. Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of veal, forcemeat, a few slices of bacon, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, h teaspoonful of whole white pepper, 1 pint of veal stock or water, 5 or 6 green onions. Mode.—Cni off the chump from a loin of veal, and take out the bone ; fill the cavity with force- meat, tie it up tightly, and lay it in a stewpan with the bones and trimmings, and cover the veal with a few slices of bacon. _ Add the herbs, mace, pepper, and onions, and stock or water; cover the pan with a closely-fitting lid, and simmer for 2 hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. Take out the bacon, herbs, and onions; reduce the gravy, if not already thick enough, to a glazo, with which glaze the meat, and serve with tomato, mushroom, or sorrel sauce. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 9d. pet lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Season- able from March to October. VEAL, to Carve Loin of. As is the case with a loin of mutton, the careful jointing of ^ Xoin of veal is858 TUB DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. rOIK OF VBAL. Veal, Minced, with Bichamel Sauce more than half tho battle in carving it. If the butcher bo negligent in this matter, he should be admonished; for there is nothing more annoying or ir- ritating to an inexperienced carver than to be obliged to turn his knife in all directions to find the exact place where it should be inserted in order to divide the bones. When the j'lintiiig is properly performed, there is little difficulty in carrying the 2<nife down in the direction ot the line 1 to 2. To each guest should be given a piece of the kidney and Jddney fat, ■which lie underneath, and are cousidered gi'eat delicacies. VEAL, Minced, with Bechamel Sauce (Cold Meat Cookery, very good). Ingredients.—The r6!aains of a fillet of veal, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, A tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, "iorce- meat balls. Mode.—Cut — but do not chop—a few slices of cold roast veal as finely as possible, sufficient to make rather more than 1 lb., weighed after being minced. Make the above propor- tion of bdchamel, by recipe ; add the lemon-peel, put in the veal, and let the whole gradually warm through. When it is at the point of simmering, dish it, and garnish with forcemeat balls and fried sippets of bread. Time, --To simmer 1 minute. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, is. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Minced (more economical). Ingredients. — The remains of cold roast fillet or loin of veal, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 onion, h tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, salt and •white pepper to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 or 3 young carrots, a faggot of Bweet herbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. Mode. —Take about 1 lb. of veal, and should there bo any bones, dredge them with flour, and put them into a stewpan with tUe bro ra outside, and few meat trito- Veal, Minced, and Macaroni mings; add rather more than a pint of water, the onion cut in slices, k-mon- poel, seasoning, mace, carrots, and herbs; simmer these well for rather more than 1 hour, and strain the liquor. Hub a little fiour into some butter ; add this to the gravy, set it on the fire, and, when it boils, skim well. Mince the veal finely by ctUtin^, and not chopping it; put it in the gravy ; let it get warmed through gradually ; add the lemon-juico and cream, and, when it is on the point of boiling, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread and slices of bacon rolled and toasted. Forcemeat balls may also be added. If more lemon-peel is liked than is stated above, put a little very finely minced to the veal, after it is warmed in the gravy. 2'ime. —1 hour to make the gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, tid. Sea- sonable from March to October. VEAL, Minced, and Macaroni (a pretty side or corner dish). Ingredients.—| lb. of minced cold roast veal, 3 oz. of ham, 1 tablespoonful ot gravy, pepper and salt to taste, ^ tea- spoonful of gi-ated nutmeg, | lb. ot bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of macaroni, 1 or 2 eggs to bind, a small piece of butter. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from a cold fillet of veal, trim off the brown outside, and mince the meat finely with the above proportion of ham : should the meat be very dry, add a spoonful of good gravy. Season highly with pepper and salt, add the grated nutmeg and bread-crumbs, and mix these ingredients with 1 or 2 eggs well beaten, which should bind the mixture and make it like forcemeat. In the mean time, boil the macaroni in salt and water, and drain it; butter a mould, put some of the macaroni at the bottom and sides of it, in whatever form is liked; mix the remainder with the forcemeat, fill the mould up to the top, put a plate or small dish on it, and steam for ,3 hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with good gravy poured round, but not over, the meat. I'ime.—h hour. Aveinge cost, exclusive of the'cold meat, lOd. Sea' soiiable from March to October. Note.—To make a variety, boil some carrots and turnips separately in a little salt and water; when done, cut them into pieces about ^ inch in thickness; butter an oval mould, and place these in it, in whit© and i-ed stripes altomat»ly1?HE DICTIONAHY Of COOKEU?. 359 Veal, Moiilded Minced at the bottom aud sides. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, and be very cai'cfiil in turning it out of the mould. VEAIj, Moulded Minced (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—f lb. of cold roast veal, a small slice of bacon, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-])eel, ^ onion chopped fine, salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste, a slice of toast soaked in milk, '1 egg. Mode.—Mince the meat very- fine, after removing from it all skin and outside pieces, and chop the bacon; mix these well together, adding the lemon-peel, onion, seasoning, mace, and toast. When all the ingredients are thofoughlj' incorporated, beat up an egg, with which bind the mixture. Butter a shape, put in the meat, and bake for ^ hour; turn it out of the mould carefully, and pour round it a good brown gravy. A sheep's head dressed in this manner is an economical and savoury dish. Time. ^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Braised Neck of. Ingredients.—The best end of the neck of veal (from 3 to 4 lbs.), bacon, 1 table- spoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste; 1 onion, 2 carrots, a little celery (when this is not obtainable, use the seed), ^ glass of sherry, thickening of butter and flour, lemon-juice, 1 blado of pounded mace. Prepare the bacon for larding, and roll it in minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; lard the veal, jjut it into a stewpan with a few slices of lean bacon or ham, an onion, carrots, and celery; and do not quite cover it with water. Stew it gently for '2 hours, or until it is quite tender ; strain off the liquor; stir together over the fire, in a stewpan, a little flour and butter until brown; lay the veal in this, the upper side to tbo bottom of the pan, and let it remain till it is a nice brown colour. Place it in the dish ; pour into the stew- pan as mucn gravy as is rcquii-ed, boil it up, skim well, add the wine, pounded mace, and lemon-juice; simmer for 3 minutes, pour it over the meat, and Rervo. Time. — Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, M. per lb. ISii.lJi. dent for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable Irom March to October. Veal Pie VEAL, Hoast Week of. Ingredients. — Veal, melted butter, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Have the veal cut from the best end of the neck ; dredge it with flour, and put it down to a bright clear fire ; keep it well basted ; dish it, pour over it some melted butter, and garnish the dish with fried force- meat balls ; send to table with a cut lemon. The scrag may be boi'ed or stewed in various ways, with rice, onion- sauce, or parsley and butter. Time.— About 2 hours. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficient—4: or 5 lbs. for 5 or 6 ■ lersons. Seasonable from March to Octobei'. VEAL OLIVE PIE (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A few thin slices of cold fillet of veal, a few thin slices of bacon, forcemeat, a cupful of gravy, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, puff-crust. Mode. —Cut thin slices from a fillet of veal, place on them thin slices of bacon, and over them a layer of forcemeat, made by recipe, with an additional seasoning of shalot and cayenne ; roll them tightly, and fill up a pie-dish with them ; add the gravy and cream, cover with a puff- crust, and bake for 1 to 1^ hour : should the pie be very large, allow 2 hours. The pieces of rolled veal should be about 3 inches in length, and about 3 iuches round. Tiiiie.—Moderate-sized pie, 1 to 1^ hour. Seasonable from Mai-oh to October. VEAL PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonl'uls of minced savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, crust, 1 teacupful of gravy. Mode. — Cut the cutlets into square pieces, and season them with popper, salt, and pounded mace; put them in a pie-dish with the savoury herbs sprinkled over, and 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham placed at the top; if possible, this should be previotisly cooked, as undressed bacon makes the veal red, and spoils its appearance. Pour in a little water, cover with crust, orna- ment it in any way that is approved; brush it over with the 3 olk of an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for about lA liour. Pour in a good gravy after baking, which is done by removing the \THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Veal and Ham Pio top ornament, and replacing it after the gravy is adiled. Time.—About Ih hour. A veracje cost, 2s. Gd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, i lb. of boiled ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, popper and salt to taste, a strip of ■ lemon-peel finely minced, the yolks of 2 Lard-boiled eggs, h pint of water, nearly h pint of good strong gravy, puff-crust. Mode.—Cut the veal into nice square pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish ; sprinkle over these a portion of the herbs, spices, seasoning, lemon-peel, and the yolks of the eggs cut in slices; cut the ham very thin, and put a layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, so arranging it that tho ham comes at the top. Lay a puff iDaste on the edge of the dish, and pour in about I pint of water ; cover with crust, ornament it with leaves, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for 1 to 1^ hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. When it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, nearly h pint of strong gravy: this should be made suffi- ciently good that, when cold, it may ciit in a lirm jcll,v. This pio may be very much enriched by adding a few mush- rooms, oysters, or sweetbreads; but it will be found very good without any of the last-namad additions. Time.— l\ hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. Average cost, 3s. Sujjicient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Potted (for Breakfast). Ingredients. — To every lb. of veal allow ^ lb. of bam, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, G oz. of fresh butter; clarified butter. Mode.—Mince the veal and ham togetliei as finely as possible, and pound well in a mortar, with cayenne, pounded maco, and fresh butter in tho above proportion. When reduced to a perfectly smooth paste, press it into potting-|iots, and cover with clarified butter. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good some days. Seasonable from March to October. Veal noils VEAL, Hagout of Cold (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients,—Tho remains of cold veal, 1 oz. of butter, pint of gravy, thicke; ing of butter and flour, pepper and to taste, 1 blade of pounded niace, 1 tablespoonf«l of mushroom ketchup, i tablespoonful of sheiTy. 1 dessertspoo;.- ful of lemon-juice, forcemeat bali ^lode.—Any part of veal will make tL: dish. Cut the meat into nice-lookii ■ pieces, put them in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, and fry a light brown ; add the gravy (hot water may be substituted for this), thicken with a little butter and flour, and stew gently about \ hour ; season with pepper, salt, and poundeil mace; add the ketchup, sherry, and lemon-juiee; give one boil, and serv-r Garnish the dish with forcemeat bal. and fried rashers of bacon. Tivie.— Altogether h hour. Average cost, exclu- sive of cold meat, 5cJ. Seasonable from March to October. ^Nole.—Tho above recipe may bo vr ricd, by adding vegetables, such as pe.-is cucumbers, lettuces, green onions cut in slices, a dozen or two of gfi'een goose- berries (not seedy), all of which should be fried a little with the meat, and then stewed la the gi*avy. VEAL RISSOLES (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast; veal, a few slices of ham or bacon, 11 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 1 table- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, 11 blade of pounded mace, a very li lid-' prated nutmeg, cnyenno and salt to r;i<te, 2 eggs well beaten, bread-crumbs. Mode. —Mince the veal very finely wiih a liltio ham or bacon ; add the parsley, herbs,, spices, and seasoning ; mi.\ into a pastoj with an egg; form into balls or cones;; brush these over with egg, sprinkle withi bread-crumbs, and fiy a rich brown. Serve with brown gravy, and garnish the dish with fried parsley. Time.—About: 10 minutes to fry the ris.soles. Season' able from March to October. VEAL ROLLS (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Tho remains of a colJi fillet of veal, cpg and bread-crumbs, a< few slices of fat bacon, forcemeat. Mode. —Cut a few slices from a cold filkt of voal -THE DICTIONAHY OF COOKERY. 361 Veal, Sliouldcr of i inch thick ; rub them over with egg; [:\y a thin shoe of fat bacon over each piece of veal; brush these with the cgfT. and over this spread the forcemeat thinly ; roll up each piece tightly, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them a rich brown. Serve with mushroom sauce or brown gravj'. Tiine.—10 to 15 mi- nutes to fry the rolls. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Stuffed and Stewed Shoulder of. Ingredients. — A shoulder of veal, a few slices of ham or bacon, forcemeat, 3 carrots, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, a faggot of savoury herbs, 3 blades of pounded mace, water, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Bone the joint by carefully detachin^- the meat from the blade-bone on one side, and then on the other, being particular not to pierce the skin ; then cut tho boue from the knuckle, and take it out. Fill tho ca- vity whence the bone was taken with a forcemeat, lloll and bind the veal up lightly; put it into a stewpan with tho carrots, onions, seasoning, herbs, and mace; pour in just suflicient water to cover it, and let it stew very gently for about 5 hours. Before taking it up, try if it is properly done by thrusting a larding-needlo in it: if it pencti-atcs easily, it is sufficiently cooked. Strain and skim the gravy, thicken with butter and flour, give one boil, and pour it round the meat. A few young carrots may be boiled and placed round tho dish as a garnish, and, when in season, green peas should always bo served with this dish. Time.—5 hours. Aver^rge ccd,Td. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonalle from March to October. VEAL, Stewed with Peas, Young Carrots, and Now Potatoes. Ingredients.—3 or 4 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 15 j'oung carrots, a few green onion?, 1 pint of green peas, 12 now potatoes, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of to- mato sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup. Mode. — Dredge tho meat with flour, and roast or bake it for about ^ hour: it should acquire a nice brown colour. Put the meat into a •tewpan with tho carrots, onions, pota- Vegetable Marrow, Boiled toes, herbs, pepper, and salt; pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it, and stew gently for 2 hours. Take out the meat and herbs, put it in a deep dish, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and flavour it with lemon-juice, tomato sauce, and mushroom ketchup, in the above proportion. Have ready a pint of green peas boiled separateb/; put these with the meat, pour over it tho gravy, and servo. The dish may be garnished •with a few forcemeat balls. Tho meat, when preferred, may bo cut into chops, and floured and fried instead of being roasted ; and any part of veal dressed in this way will be found extremely sa- vo\iry and good. Time. — 3 hours. Average cost, OtZ. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable, with peas, from Juno to August. VEGETABLE MARROV^T, BoUed. Ingredients. — To each h gallon of ■water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; vegetable marrows. Mode.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; put in the marrows after peeling them, and boil them until quite tender. Take them up with a slice, halve, and, should they be .?>^^^*^?^^^^g very large, quar- ^=^^^2ir^'st^^^!^f^='''?!^S^ ter them. Dish visgetable maekow them on toast, on toast. and send to tablo with them a tureen of melted butter, or, in lieu of this, a small pat of salt butter. Large vegetable mari'ows may be preserved throughout the winter by storing them in a dry place; when wanted for use, a few slices should be cut and boiled in the same manner as above ; but, when once begun, the mar- row must bo eaten quickly, as it keeps but a short time after it is cut. Vege- table marrows are also very delicious mashed : they should bo boiled, then Grained, and mashed smoothly with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a sauce- pan, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, and a small piece of butter, and dish with a few sippets of toasted bread placed round as a garnish. Time.— Young vegetable marrows, 10 to 20 mi- nutes ; old ones, ^ to ^ hour. Average cost, in full season. Is. per dozen. <S'?6^'- cient.—Allow 1 msderate-sized marrow for each person. Seasonable in July,THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 862 Vegetable Marrow, Fried Au^cust, aiiil September; but may bo preserved all the wiutor. VEGETABLE MABROW, Fried. Ingredients.—3 moflium-sized vctre- tablo marrows, e<rg and brcad-cnmibs, hot lard, il/or/e.—Peel, and boil the marrows until tender in salt and water ; then drain thorn and cut them in quarters, and take out the seeds. When tho- rotighly drained, brush the marrows over with egg', and sprinkle with bread- crumbs ; have ready some hot lard, fry the marrow in this, and, when of a nice brown, dish ; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and serve. Time.—Atout h hour to boil the marrow, 7 minutes to fry it. Average cost, in full season, Is. per dozen. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable ia July, August, and Sep- tember. VEGETABLE MATEIBOWS IN WHITE SAUCE. Ingredients. — 4 or 5 moderate-sized marrows, g pint of white sauce. Mode, —Pare the marrows ; cut them in halves, and shape each half at the top in a point, leaving the bottom end flat for it io stand up- right in the dish. Boil the marrows in salt and water until tender ; take them up very carefully, and arrange them on a hot dish. Have rearly h pint of white sauce ; pour this over the marrows, and servo. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes to boil the marrows. Average cost, in full season. Is. per dozen. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. Ingredients.—4 young vegetable mar- rows, or more, if very small, h pint of crean), salt and white pepper to taste, 2 qu;irts of white stock. Mode.—Pare and slice tlio marrows, and put them in the stock boiling. When done almost to a mash, press them through a sieve, and at the moment of serving, add the boiling cream and seasoning. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 2(i. per quart. Seasonable in summer. Sufficient lor 8 persons. VEGBTABLE MARKOW IS WHITE SAUCE. Vegetable Soup VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients.—'! oz. of carrot, 10 oz. • parsnip, 10 oz. of potato, cut into ti; slices; Ij oz. of butler, 5 tea'^poonli of Hour, a teaspoonful of n ade mu-tani, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks oi 2 eggs, rather more than 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Boil the vegetables in. the water 2h hours ; stir them often, and. if the water boils away too quickly, addi more, as there should be 2 q'larts of soup when done. Mix up in a basin the butter and flour, mustard, salt, and pepper, with a teacupful of cold water :. stir in the soup, and boil 10 minutes. Have ready the yolks of the eggs in thee tureen; pour on, stir well, and serve*- Time.—Z hours. Average cost, id. perr quart. Seasonable in winter. SufficienU for 8 persons. VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients. — Equal quantities onions, carrots, turnips; \ lb. of butter/ a crust of toasted bread, 1 head oi celery, a faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 2 quarts of common stock or boUing water. Allow ^ lb. of vegetablesi to 2 quarts of stock. il/ocZe.—Cut u tho onions, carrots, and turnips ; wasi and drain them well, and put them im the stewpan with the butter and pow. dered sugar. Toss the whole over q . sharp fire for 10 minutes, but do not let them brown, or you will spoil the (lavoui of the soup. When done, pour the stock or boiling water ou them ; add the bread, celer}', herbs, and scasouinar; stew for 3 hours; skim well and strain it off. When ready to serve, add o. little sliced carrot, celery, and turnip, and flavour with a spoonful of Harvey's - sauce, or a little ketchup. Tnne.— 3.^, hours. Average cost, Gd. per quartX] S'casonable all the year. Sufficient fo; 8 persons. VEGETABLE SOUP. (Gocil and C/uuj), made ivilhout Meat.) Inqredicnis.—Q potatoes, 4 turnips, or 2 if very large ; 2 carrots, 2 onions; if obtainable, 2 mushrooms; 1 head of celery, 1 largo slice of bread, 1 smal saltspoonful of s.alt, i saltspoonful oi: ground black pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls oV Harvey's sauce, G quarts of water.- Moik.—VQQl the vegetables, and cqtTHE DICTIONAUY OP COOKERY. 363 Vegetables, Cut for Soups, &c. them up into small pieces; toast the breart rather brown, and put all into a stewpan with the water and seasoning. Simmor gently for 3 hours, or until all is reduced to a pulp, and pass it through a sieve in the same way as poa-soup, which it should resemble in consistence ; but it should be a dark brown colour. "Warm it up again when required ; put in the Harvey's sauce, and, if necessarj^j add to the flavouring. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average cost, Id. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Suffi- cient for 16 persons. Note.—This recipe was forwarded to the Editress by a lady in the county of Durham, by whom it was strongly re- commended, VEGETABLES, Cut for Soups, Sc. The annexed engraving represents a cutter for shaping vegetables for soups, ragotits, stews, &c. ; carrots and turnips being the usual vegetables for which this utensil is used. Cut the vegetables into slices about \ inch in thick- ness, stamp them out with the cutter, and boil them for a few minutes in salt and water, until tender. Turnips should be cut in rather thicker slices than carrots, on account of the former boiling more quickly to a pulp than the latter. VENISON, Hashed. Ingredients. — The remains of roast venison, its own or mutton gravy, thickening of butter and flour. Mode. —Cut tlio meat from the bones in neat I'iccs, and, if there is sufficient of its iwn gravy left, ])ut the meat into this, .IS it is preferable to any other. Should there not be enough, put the bones and ti-iiiiniiiigs into a stewpan, with about a l int of mutton gravy ; let them stew onlly for an hour, and strain the gi-avy, J'ut a litile flour and butter into the stewpan, keep stirring until brown, then ad<l the strained gravy, and give it a boil up ; skim and strain again, and, when a little cool, put in the slices of venison. Place the stewpan by the side VBGETABLE-CUTTEE, Venison, Koast Haunch of of the fire, and, when on the point of simmering, serve: do not allow it to boil, or the meat will be hard. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time, —Altoguthcr, 1.3 hour. Seusonahle.— Buck venison, from June to Michaelmas; doe venison, from November to the end of January. Note.—A small quantity of Harvey's sance, ketchup, or port wine, may be added to enrich the gravy : these ingre- dients must, however, be used very spar- ingly, or they will ovei-power the flavour of the venison, VENISON", Eoast Haunch of. Ingredients. —Venison, coarse flour- and-water paste, a little (lour. Mode.— Choose a haunch with clear, bright, and thick fat, and the cleft of the hoof smooth and close ; the greater quantity of fat there is, the better quality will the meat be. As many people object to venison when it has too much haut goiit, ascer- tain how long it has been kept, bj' run- ning a sharp skewer into the meat close to the bone: when this is withdrawn, its sweetness can be judged of. With care and attention, it will keep good a fort- night, unless the weather is very mild. Keep it perfectly dry by wiping it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains, and sprinkle over pow- dered ginger or pepper, as a preventive against the fly. When required for use, EOAST HATJKCH OF VENISOIT, wash it in warm water, and dri/ it ircll with a cloth; butter a sheet of white paper, put it over the fat, lay a coarse paste, about ^ inch in thickness, over this, and then a sheet or two of strong paper. Tie the whole firmly on to the haunch with twine, and put tho joint down to a strong close firo; baste tho venison immediately, to prevent the paper and string from burning, and con- tinue this operation, without intermis- sion, tho whole of the time it is cooking. About 20 minutes before it is done, care- fully remove the paste and paper, dredgo tho joint with flour, and bast's well with3G4 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKEEY. Vonison, Haunch of, to Carvo btiUer until it is nicely frothed, and of a iiico palo-biown colour y garnish tho knucklo-bono with a frill of white paper, nnil sorvo with a good, strong, but un- (lavourcd gravy, in a turocn, and currant jolly; or molt tho jolly with a little port wine, and servo that also in a turoen. As the principal object in roasting veni- son is to preserve the fat, the above ia tho best mode of doing so where expense is not objected to ; but, in ordinary cases, the paste may bo dispensed with, and a double paper placed over tho roast instead: it will not require so long cooking without tho paste. Do not omit to send very hot plates to table, as the venison fat so soon freezes: to bo thoroughly enjoyed by epicures, it should be eaten on hot-water plates. The neck and shoulder may be roasted in the same manner. Time.—A large haunch of buck vonison, with the paste, 4 to 5 hours ; haunch of doe venison, 3| to 3;j hours. Allow less time w'ithout the paste. Average cost, Is. id. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 18 persons. Sea- sonahle.—Buck venison in greatest per- fection from June to Michaelmas; doe venison from November to the end of January. VENISOlf, to Carve Haunch of. Here is a grand dish for a knight of the carving-knife to exercise his skill upon, and, what will be pleasant for many to know, there is but little diffi- culty in the performance. An incision being made completely down to ,the bone, in the direction of the line 1 to" 2, tho gravy will then bo able easily to flow ; when slices, not too thick, should be out HAUNCH OF VENISOK. along the haunch, as indicated by the line 1 to 3 ; that end of the joint marked 3 having been turned towards the carver, so that he may have a more complete command over the joint. Although some epicures affect to believe that some parts of the haunch are superior to other?, yet wo doubt if there is any difference between the slices cut above and below the lino. It should be borne Vermicelli Soup in mind to servo each guest with a por- tion of fat; and tho most expeditious carver will be the best carver, as, like nmtton, venison soon begins to chill, when it loses much of its charm. VENISON, Stewed. Ingredients.—A. shoulder of venison, a few slices of mutton fat, 2 glasses of port wine, pepper and allspice to taste, Ih pint of weak stock or gravy, A tea- spoonful of whole pepper, ^ teaspoonlul of whole allspice. J/ocZe.—Hang the venison till tender; take out tho bone, flatten tho meat with a rolling-pin, and place over it a few slices of mutton fat, which have been previously soaked for 2 or 3 hours in port wine; sprinkle these with a little fine allspice and pepper, roll the meat up, and bind and tie it securely. Put it into a stewpan with the bono and the above proportion of weak stock or gravy, whole allspice, black pepper, and port wine ; cover the lid down closely, and simmer, very gently, from 3i to 4 hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, and dish the meat; strain the gravy over it, and send it to table with red currant jelly. Un- less the joint is very fat, the above is the best mode of cooking it. Time.— 3i to 4 hours. Average cost, Is. id. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sujjicieni for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable. — Buck venison, from June to Michaelmas; doe venison, from November to tho end of January. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 oz. of vermicelli, \\ pint of milk, h pint of cream, 3 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of" sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.— Boil the vermicelli in the milk until it ia tender; then stir in the remaining ingre- dients, omitting the cream, if not obtain- able. Flavour tho mixture with grated lemon-rind, essence of bitter almonds,. or vanilla; butter a pie-dish; line the. edges with puff-paste, put in the pud-- ding, and bake in a moderate oven for: about ^ hour. Time,—f hour. Ave- rage cost, Is. 2d. without cream. Siiffi- cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at', any time. VERMICELLI SOUP. Ingredients.—lb. of bacon, stuck, with cloves; .J oz. of butter, worked up in flour; 1 small fowl, trussed for boiU JTHE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 365 Vermicelli Soup ing; 2 oz. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of white stock. Mode. — Put tlio stock, bacon, butter, and fowl, into tho stow- pan, and stew for of an hour. Take tho vermicelli, add it to a lictio of tho stock, and set it on tho fire, till it is quite tender. When tho soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put the bacon on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as possible; pour it, with the ver- micelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread thin, put in the soup, and serve. I'ime. —2 hours. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl and bacon, lOrf. per quai't. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. VERMICELLI SOUP. Ingredients. — \ lb. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of clear gravy stock. Mode.— Put the vermicelli in tho soup, boiling ; simmer very gently for § an hour, and stir frequently. Time."— ^ an hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. per quart. Season- able all the yeai". Sufficient for 8 persons. VOL-AU-VENT (an Entree). Ingredients.—^ to 1 lb. of pufF-paste, fricasseed chickens, rabbits, ragotlts, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in thick white sauce. Mode.— Make from f to 1 lb. of puff-paste, taking care that it is very evenly rolled out each time, to ensure its rising pro- perly ; and if the paste is not extremely light, and put into a good hot oven, this cannot be accomplished, and the vol-au- vent will look very badly. Roll out the paste to the thickness of about 1^ inch, and, with a fluted stamp to the shape. cutter, it out desired either ' round or oval, and, with the vci-AU-vBifT. point of a small knife, make a slight incision in the paste all round the top, about an inch from tho edge, which, when baked, forms tho lid. Put the vol-au-vent into a good brisk oven, and keep the door shut for a few minutes after it is put in. Particular attention should bo paid to the heating of the oven, for the pksto cannot rise without a tolerable degree of heat, "When of a Vol-au-Vent of Fresh Strawberries nice colour, without being scorched, withdraw it from the ovc-n, instantly remove the cover where it was marked, and detach all the soft crumb from the centre : in doing this, be careful not to break the edges of the vol-axi-vent; but should they look thin in places, stop them with small flakes of the inside paste, stuck on with the white of an egg. This precaution is necessary to prevent the fricassee or ragoilt from bursting the case, and so spoiling the appearance of the dish. Fill the vol-au-vent with a rich mince, or fricassee, or ragotit, or the remains of cold fish flaked and warmed in a good white saiice, and do not make them very liquid, for fear of the gravy bursting the crust: replace the lid, and serve. To improve the appearance of the crust, brush it over with the yolk of an egg after it has risen properly. Time.—5 hour to bake the vol-au-vent. Average cost, exclusive of the interior, I5. Qd. Seasonable at any time. _ Note. —Small vol-au-vents may bo made like those shown in the en graving, and filled with minced veal, chicken, &c. They should be made of the same paste as the larger ones, and stamped out with a smaU fluted cutter. VOL-AU-VENT OF FRESH V STRAWBERRIES, WITH WHIPPED CREAM. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of pufF-paste, 1 pint of freshly-gathered strawberries, sugar to taste, a plateful of whipped cream. Mode.—Make a vol-au-vent case, only not quite so large nor so high as for , a savoury one. When nearly done, ' brush the paste over with the white of an egg, then sprinkle on it some pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to set the glaze. Remove the interior, or soft crumb, and, at the moment of serving, fill it with the strawberries, which should be picked, and broken up with sufficient sugar to sweeten them nicely. Place a few spoonfuls of whipped cream on the top and servo. Time.—h hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-aic-vent. Ave- rage cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for 1 voZ-att« vent. Seasonable in Ju^a and July. SMALL VOL-Ar-VENIS.3Gfl THE DICTIONARY OP COOKER?. Vol-au-Vcnt, Sweet VOL-AU-VENT, Sweet, of PlumH, Apples, or any other Fresh Fruit. Im/redients.—^ lb. of puff-paste, about 1 pint of fruit compflte. Tl/ot^e.—Make lb. of putt'-pasto, taking caro to bako it in a good brisk oven, to draw it up uicely and mako it look light. Ilavo ready sudicicnt stowed fruit, tho syrup of which must bo boiled down until very thick ; fill tho vol-au-venl with this, and pile it high in tho centre ; powder a little sugar over it, and put it back in the oven to glaze, or use a salamander for tho purpose: the vol-au-vent is then ready to servo. It may bo made wilh any fruit that is in season, such as rhubarb, oranges, gooseberries, currants, cherries, apples, &a. ; but caro must be taken nob to have the syrup too thin, for fear of its breaking through the crust. Time.—h hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-au-vent. Average cost, exclusive of the compOte, Is. Id. Sufficient for 1 en- tremets. WAFERS, Geneva. Ingredients.—2 eggs, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, 3 oz. pounded sugar. Mode.—Well whisk the eggs ; put them into a basin, and stir to them the butter, which should be beaten to a cream ; add the flour and sifted sugar gradually, and then mix all well together. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop on it a teaspoonful of the mixture at a time, leaving a space be- tween each. Bake in a cool oven ; watch tho pieces of paste, and, when half done, roll them up like wafers, and put in a small wedge of bread or piece of wood, to keep them in shape. Return them to the oven until crisp. Before serving, remove the bread, put a spoonful of preserve in tho widest end, and fill up with whipped cream. This is a very pretty and ornamental dish for tho supper-table, and is very nice and easily made. Time.—Altogether from 20 to 25 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the preserve and cream. Id. Sufficient for a nice-sized dish. Seasonable "at any time. WALNUT KETCHUP. Ingredients.—^f}') walnuts, 1 handful of salt, 1 qua.t of vinegar, :J oz. of mace, )l oz. of nutmeg, ^ oz. of cloves, \ oz. of ginger, ^ oz. of whole black pepper, a Walnuts, to have Fresh small piece of horseradiKh, 20 sh ,j lb. of anchovies, 1 pint of port Mode.—Procure tho walnuts at the you can run a pin through t slightly bruise, and put them into with tho salt and vinegar ; let them ; 8 days, stirring every day ; then tho liquor from them, and boil it, tho above ingredients, for about ' It may bo strained or not, as prefc and, if required, a little more vineg wine can bo added, according to 1 When bottled well, seal the corks, i —h hour. Seasonable.—Make this the beginning to tho middle of . when walnuts are in perfection pickling purposes. WALNUT KETCHUP. Ingredients.—.J sieve of walnut-st 2 quarts of wate'r, salt, J lb. of sha 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of mace, 1 o: whole pepper, 1 oz. of garlic. Moo Put the walnut-shells into a pan, the water, and a lar^re quantity of s let them stand for 10 days, then bi the shells up in tho water, and Ic drain through a sieve, putting a h( weight on the top to express the ju place it on the fire, and remove all si that may arise. Now boil the liq with the shalots, cloves, mace, pep; and garlic, and let all simmer till shalots sink ; then put the liquor int pan, and, when cold, bottle, and c closely. It should stand 6 months bel using: should it ferment during t time, it must be again boiled and skiran; Time. — About ^ hour. Seasonable September, when the walnut-shells obtainable. WALNUTS, to have Fre throughout the Season. Ingredients,—To every pint of wa allow 1 teaspoonful of salt. Modi Place the walnuts in the salt and wa for 24 hours at least; then take tb out, and rub them dry. Old nuts li be freshened in this manner; or t nuts, when first picked, may be put i an earthen pan with salt sprinkl amongst them, and with damj^ed placed on the top of them, and covered down with a lid. They i be well wiped before they are put table. Seasonable.—Shov,\d be stor away in September or October.307 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Walnuts, Pickled WALNUTS, Pickled (very Good). Ingredients. — 100 walnuts, salt and water. To each quart of viuegar allow 2 oz. of whole black pepper, 1 oz. of all- spice, 1 oz. of bruised ginger. Mode.— Procure the walnuts while young ; be careful they are not woody, and prick them well with a fork ; prepare a strong brine of salt and water (4 lbs. of salt to each gallon of water), into which put tho walnuts, letting them remain 9 days, and changing the brine every third day; drain them ofif, put them on a dish, place it in the sun until they become perfectly black, which will be in 2 or 3 days; have ready dry jars, into which place the walnuts, and do not quite fill the jars. Boil sufBcient vinegar to cover them, for 10 minutes, with spices in the above proportion, and pour it hot over the walnuts, which must be quite co- vered with the pickle; tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. They will be fit for use in a month, and will keep good 2 or 3 years. Time.— 10 minutes. Seasonable. — Make this from the beginning to the middle of July, beforo the walnuts harden. Note.—When liked, a few shalots may be added to the vinegar, and boiled with it. WATER SOUCHY. Perch, tench, soles, eels, and flounders are considered the best fish for this dish. For the souchy, put some water into a stewpan with a bunch of chopped pai's- ley, some roots, and suiBcient salt to make it brackish. Let these simmer for 1 hour, and then stew the fish in this water. When they are done, take them out to drain, have ready some finely- chopped parsley, and a few roots cut into slices of about one inch thick and an inch in length. Put tho fish in a turccu or deep dish, strain the liquor over them, and add the minced parsley and roots. Sorve with brown broad and butter. WHEATEARS, to Dress. Ingredients.—Whcatears; fresh butter. Mode. — After tho birds are picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them like larks, put them down to a quick fire, and baste them woU with fresh butter. When done, which will be in about 20 minutes, dish tb.sm on fried bread-crumbs, and giirnish tho dish with slices of lemon. White Sauce, Good Time. — 20 minutes. Seasonable from July to October. WHISKEY CORDIAL. Ingredients.—1 lb. of ripe white cur- rants, the rind of 2 lemons, ,j oz. of grated ginger, 1 quart of whiskey, 1 lb, of lump sugar. Mode.—Strip the cur- rants from the stalks ; put them into a large jug; add the lemon-rind, ginger, and whiskey ; cover the jug closely, and let it remain covered for 24 hours. Strain through a hair-sieve, add the lump sugar, and let it stand 12 hours longer ; then bottle, and cork well. Time.—To stand 24 hours before being strained ; 12 hours after the sugar is added. Seasonable.— Make this in July, WHITEBAIT, to Dress. Ingredients.—A little flour, hot lard, seasoning of salt. Mode. — This fish should be put into iced water as soon as boiight, unless they are cooked imme- diately. Drain them from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean dry cloth, over which put 2 good hand- fuls of flour. Toss in the whitebait, shake them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker-sieve to take away the superfluous flour. Throw them into a pan of boiling lard, very few at a time, and let them fry till of a whitey-brown colour. Directly they are done, they must be taken out, and laid before the fire for a minute or two on a sieve re- versed, covered with blotting-paper to absorb the fat. Dish them on a hot napkin, arrange tho fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over tho whole. Time.—3 minutes. Seasonable from April to August. WHITE SAUCE, Good. Ingredients.—^ pint of white stock, ^ pint of cream, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, salt to taste. Mode. — Have ready a delicately-clean saucepan, into which put the stock, which should be well flavoured with vegetables, and rather savoury ; mix the flour smoothly with the cream, add it to the stock, season with a little salt, and boil all these ingredients very gently for about 10 minutes, keeping them well stirred the whole time, as this sauce is very liable to burn. Time.— 10 minutes. Average cost, \s. Sufficient for a pair of fowls. Seasonable at any tini(>.86S THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHT. White Sauco, mado without Moat WHITE SAUCE, Made without Meat. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 2 small onions, 1 carrot, i a small toacupful of flour, 1 pint of new milk, sal t and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Gut up the onions and carrot very small, and put them into a Btowpan with the butter; simmer them till tho butter is nearly dried up; then stir in tho flour, and add tho milk ; boil tho whole gently until it thickens, strain it, season with salt and cayenne, and it will bo ready to serve. Time.—.j hour. Average cost, 5d. Sufficient for a pair of fowls. Seasonable at any timo. WHITE SAUCE (a very Simple and Inexpensive Method). Ingredients.—pint of milk, Ih oz. of rice, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 1 small blade of pounded mace, salt and cayenne to taste. 3Iode.—Boi\ the milk with the lemon-peel and rice until the latter is perfectly tender, then take out the lemon- peel and pound the milk and rice to- gether ; put it back into the stewpan to warm, add the mace and seasoning, give it one boil, and serve. This sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream. Time.—About 1^, hour to boil the rice. Average cost, id. Sufficient for a pair of fowls. Seasonable at any time. WHITING, Boiled. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse tho fish, but do not skin them ; lay them in a fish- kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover them, and salt in the above proportion. Bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer gently for about 5 minutes, or rather more should the fish be very large. Dish them on a hot napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Serve with an- chovy or caper sauce, and plain melted butter. Time.—After the water boils, 5 minutes. Average cost for small whit- ings, 4cZ. each. Seasonable all tho j'car, but best from October to March. Suffi- cient.—1 small whiting for each person. To Choose Whiting.—Choose for tho firmness of its flesh, and the silveiy hue of its appearance. WHITING, Broiled. Inr/i-edients.—^aXt and water; flour. Mode,—Wash tho whiting in salt and Whiting au Gratin water, wipe them thoroughly, and lot them remain in tho cloth to ab.sorb all moisture. Flour them well, au.l broil over a very clear fire. Servo with muilre (ChClel sauce, or plain melted butter (see Sauces), lie careful to preserve the liver, as by some it is considered very delicate. Time.—5 minutes for a small whiting. Average cost, id. c^ich. Season- able all tho year, but best from October to March. Sufficient.—1 small whiting for each person. WHITING, &c. Whiting, pike, haddock, and other fish, when of a sufficiently largo size, may bo carved in the same manner as salmou. When small, they may be cut through, bono and all, and helped in nice pieces, a middling-sized whiting serving for two shces. WHITING, Fried. Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour, hot lard, or clarified drip- ping. Mode.—Take off the skin, clean, and thoroughly wipe the ftsh free from all moisture, as this is most essential, in order that the egg and bread-crumbs may properly adhere. Fasten the tail in the mouth by means of a small skewer, brush the fish over with egg, dredge with a little flour, and cover with bread- crumbs. Fry them in hot lard or clari- fied dripping of a nice colour, and servo them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Send them to table with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. Time.— About G minutes. Average cost, id. each. Seasonable all tho year, but best from October to March. Sufficient.—1 small whiting for each i^erson. Jfote.—Large whitings may be filleted, rolled, and served as fried filleted soles. Small fried whitings are frequently used for garnishing largo boiled fish, such as turbot, cod, &c. WHITING AU GRATIN, or BAKED WHITING. Ingredients. — 4 whiting, butter. 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, a few chopped mushrooms when obtainable ; pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste , butter, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, bread-crumbs. J/otfe.—Grease the bot- tom of a baking-dish with butter, andTHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 369 Whiting aux Finoa Herbes yer it strew some minced parsley and lushroDms. Scale, empty, and wash he whitinfTs, and wipe them thoroughly ry, carefully preserving the livers. Lay hem in the dish, sprinkle them with read-crumbs and seasoning, adding a ttle grated nutmeg, and also a little lore minced parsley and mushrooms, 'lace small pieces of butter over the fhiting, moisten with the wine, and bake 3r 20 minutes in a hot oven. If there bould be too much sauce, reduce it by oiUng over a sharp fire for a few minutes, nd pour under the fish. Serve with a ut lemon, and no other sauce. Time.— 0 minutes. Average cost, 4cZ. each. 'easonable all the year, but best from Ictober to March. Sufficient. — This uantity for 4 or 5 persons, VHITINQ AUX FINES HERBES. Ingredients.—1 bunch of sweet herbs hopped very fine ; butter. Mode.— ilean and skin the fish, fasten the tails 1 the mouths, and lay them in a baking- ish. Mince the herbs very fine, strew hem over the fish, and place small pieces f butter over; cover with another dish, nd let them simmer in a Dutch oven 3r { hour or 20 minutes. Turn the fish nee or twice, and, sers'e with the sauce lOured over. Time.—\ hour or 20 mi- utes. Average cost, id. each. Seasoii- hle all the year, but best from October 0 March. Sufficient.—1 small whiting Dr each person. ?^IDGEON, Roast, Ingredients.—y^idgeons, a little flour, lutter. Mode. — These are trussed in he same manner as wild duck, but must rOt be kept so long before they ai'e iressed. Put them down to a brisk fire ; our, and baste them continually with lutter, and, when browned and nicely rothed, send them to table hot and [uickly. Serve with brown gravy, or range gravy, and a cut lemon. Time.— hour; if liked well done, 20 minutes, iverage cost. Is. each: but seldom lought. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Sea- onable from October to February, ?7IDGEON. Widgeon ma^ bo carved in tho same ^ay as descrioed in regard to wild lucl-. "Wine Sauce for Puddings WINE OR BRANDY SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 pint of melted butter. 3 heaped teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar'; 1 large winoglassful of port or sherry, oi f of a small glassful of brandy. Mode. — Make ^ pint of melted butter, omitting the salt; then stir in the sugar and wine or spirit in the above propor- tion, and bring the sauce to the point of boiling. Serve in a boat or tureen sepa- rately, and, if liked, pour a little of it over the pudding. To convert this into punch sauce, add to the sherry and bi-andy a small wineglassful of rum and the juice and grated rind of ^ lemon. Liqueurs, such as Maraschino or Curagoa, substituted for the brandy, make ex- cellent sauces. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. WINE SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, Ingredients.—^ pint of sherry, \ pint of water, the yolks of 5 eggs, 2 ozs. of pounded sugar, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, a few pieces of candied citron cut thin. Mode.—Separate the yolks from the whites of 5 eggs ; beat them, and put them into a very clean saucepan (if at hand, a lined one is best); add all the other ingredients, place them over a sharp fire, and keep stirring until the sauce begins to thicken ; then take it off and serve. If it is allowed to boil, it will be spoiled, as it will immediately curdle. Time. —To be stirred over the fire 3 or 4 minutes ; but it must not boil. Average cost, 2s. Sifficient for a large pudding ; allow half "this quantity for a moderate-sized one. Seasonable at any time. WINE SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, Excellent, Ingredients.—ThQ yolks of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz, of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of fresh butter, \ saltspoon- ful of salt, A pint of sherry or Madeira. Mode.—Vwt the butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the former thickens; then add the sugar, salt, and wine, and mix these in- gredients well together. Separate the yolks from the whites of 4 eggs; boat up the former, and. stir them Drisidy to the sauce ; let it remain over the fire unti' ■*370 THE DICTIONARY OP C00KEE7. "Wino, to Mull is on the point of bimmerinf''; but do not allow it to boil, or it will instimtly curdle. This sauco is delicious with plum, marrow, or bread puddings ; but should bo served separately, and not poured over the pudding. Time.—From 5 to 7 minutes to thiclvcn the butter; about 6 minutes to stir the sauco over the fire. Average cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. ■WINE, to MiiU. Ingredients.—To eveiy pint of wine allow 1 large cupful of water, sugar, and spice to taste. Mode.—In making pre- parations like the above, it is very diffi- cult to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar and siiico, as what quantity might suit one person would be to another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water until the flavour is extracted, then add the wine and sugar, and bring the whole to the boiling-point, ■when serve with strips of crisp dry toast, or with biscuits. The spices usually used for mulled wine are cloves, grated nut- meg, and cinnamon or mace. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port and claret are those usually selected for the purpose ; and the latter requires a very large proportion of sugar. The vessel that the wine is boiled in must be deU- cately clean, and should be kept exclu- sively for the purpose. Small tin warmers may be purchased for a trifle, which are more suitable than saucepans, as, if the latter are not scrupulously clean, they will spoil the wine, by imparting to it a very disagreeable fiavour. These warmers should bo used for no other purposes. WOODCOCK, Boast. Ingredients. — Woodcocks ; butter, flour, toast. Mode.—Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trails are, by epi- cures, considered a great delicacy. Pluck, and wipe them well outside; truss them BOAST •WOODCOCK. with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressinor upon the thighs; skin the nock and iiead, and bring the beak Yeast-Cake round under the wing. Place sone sliq^ of toast in the dripjjing-pan to catch ti traiiu, allowing a piece of to.asl for eai bird. Roast before a clear fire from to 25 minutes ; keep them well baste and flour and froth them nicely. Wh' done, dish the pieces of toust with t; birds upon them, and pour round a ve littio gravy ; send some more to tuljle a tureen. These are most delicious bin when well cooked ; but they should n be kept too long: when the feathe drop, or easily come out, they are fit f for table. Time.—When liked unde done, 15 to 20 minutes; if liked wc. done, allow an extra 5 minutes. A'cera cost.—Seldom bought. SujjicieiU.—2 f< a dish. Seasonable from Kovember ■ i February. WOODCOCK. This bird, like a partridge, may I carved by cutting it exactly into tw like portions, or made into three helj. ings, as described in carving part- f^/^^^T^r^ ridge. The back- '^x^^V bone is considered the tit-bit of a ^ —^ry.^. woodcock, and by woodcock. many the thigh is also thought a great delicacy. This bir is served in the manner advised V> Brillat Savarin, in connection with th pheasant, viz., on toast which h;is r(: cuivod its (?-ippings whilst roasting; an a piece of this t()ast should iuvariabl accompany each plate. WOODCOCK, SCOTCH. Ingredients. — A few slices of he buttered toast; allow 1 anchovy to eac slice. For the sauce,—.} pint of creau the yolks of 3 eggs. il/ot?e.—Separat the yolks from the whites of the eggs beat the former, stir to them the crearr and bring the sauce to the boihng-poini" but do not allow it to boil, or it wi curdle. Have ready some hot buttere toast, spread with anchovies pounded t a paste ; pour a littio of the hot sauce o the top, and servo very hot and ver quickly. Time. —5 minutes to make tli sauce hot. Si'fficicnl.—AUo'w h slice t each person. Seasonable at any time. YEAST-CAKLE. Inijredie7its.—lh lb. cf flour, h lb. n butter. I pint of milk. Li tablc>i-i'!!!371 THE DICTIONAny OF COOKEEY. Yeast-Dumplings of good yeast, 3 eggs, f lb. of cnrrants, Alb. of white moistsu>rar, 2 oz. of candied jiecl. J/u(/e.—Put the milk and butter into a saiicejian, and shako it round over ft tiro until the butter is melted, but do not allow the milk to get very hot. Put the flour into a basin, stir to it the milk and butter, the yeast and eggs, which should be well beaten, and form the whole into a smooth dough. Let it stand in a warm place, covered with a cloth, to rise, and, when sufficiently risen, add the currants, sugar, and candied peel cut into thin slices. When all the ingredients are thoro\ighly mixed, line 2 moderate- sized cake-tins with buttered paper, which should be about six inches higher than the tin ; pour in the mixture, let it stand to rise again for another h hour, and then bake the cakes in a brisk oven for about 1.^ hour. If the tops of them become too brown, cover thera with paper until they are done through. A few drops of essence of lemon, or a little grated nutmeg, may be added when the flavour is liked. Time.—From 1| to 1| hour. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient to make 2 moderate-sized cakes. ilSeasonable at any time. YEAST-DTJMPLINGS. Ingredients. — \ quartern of dough, boiling water. Mode.—Make a very litrht dough as for bread, using to mix it, milk, instead of water; divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings; plunge them into boiling water, and boil them for 20 minutes. Serve the instant they are taken up, as they spoil directly, by falling and be- coming heavy ; and in eating them do not touch them with a knife, but tear them apart with two forks. They may bo eaten with meat gravy, or cold butter and sugar; and if not convenient to make the dough at home, a little from the baker's answers as well, only it must be placed for a few minutes near the fire, in a basin with a cloth over it, to let it rise again before it is made into dumplings. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, 4d. Snfficierd for 5 or '^^ persons. Seasonable at any time. Yeast, Kirkleatham YEAST, to Make, for Bread. Ingredients.—Ih oz. of hops, 3 quarts of water, 1 lb. of bruised malt, h pint of yeast. Mode. — Boil the hops in the water for 20 minutes; let it stand for about 5 minutes, then add it to 1 lb. of bruised malt prepared as for brewing. Let the mixture stand covered till about lukewarm ; then put in not quite 5 pint of yeast; keep it warm, and let it work 3 or 4 hours ; then put it into small pint bottles (ginger-beer bottles are the best for the purpose), cork them well, and tie them down. The yeast is now ready for use ; it will keep good for a few weeks, and 1 bottle will bo found sufficient for 18 lbs. of flour. When re- quired for use, boil 3 lbs. of potatoes without salt, mash them in the same water in which they were boiled, ard rub them through a colander. Stir in about i lb. of flour; then put in the yeast, pour it in the middle of the flour, and let it stand warm on the hearth all night, and in the morning let it be quite warm when it is kneaded. The bottles of yeast require very careful opening, as it is generally exceedingly ripe. Time.— 20 minutes to boil the hops and wator, the yeast to work 3 or 4 hours. Suffi- cient.—^ pint sufficient for 18 lbs. of flour. YEAST, Kirkleatham. Ingredients.—2 oz. of hops, 4 quarts of water, i lb. of flour, h pint of yeast. Mode.—Boil the hops and water for 20 minutes ; strain, and mix with the liquid h lb. of flour and not quite ^ pint of yeast. Bottle it up, and tie the corks down. When wanted for use, boil po- tatoes according to the quantity of bread to be made (about 3 lbs. are sufTicient for about a peck of flour); mash them, add to them ^ lb. of flour, and mix about ^ pint of the yeast with them ; let this mixture stand all day, and lay the bread to rise the night before it is wanted. Time.—20 minutes to boil the hops and water. Sufficient.—^ pint of this yeast sufficient lor a peck of fiour, or rather more.EEOIPES FOE SERVING THE DISHES ILLUSTEATED ON THE COLOUEED PLATES. BOILED SAIiMOlJ". Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water; sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, and be particular that no blood is left inside; lay it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, adding salt in the above proportion. Bring it quickly to a boil, take off all the scum, and let it simmer gently till the fish is done, which will be when the meat separates easily from the bone. Experience alone can teach the cook to fix the time for boiling fish'; but it is especially to be remembered that it should never be under-dressed, as then nothing is more unwholesome. Neither let it remain in the kettle after it is sufficiently cooked, as that would render it insipid, watery, and colourless. Drain it, and if not wanted for a few minutes, keep it warm by means of warm cloths laid over it. Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with cut lemon and parsley, and send lobster or shi'imp sauce, and plain melted butter to table with it. A dish of dressed cucumber usually accompanies this fish. BOILED TUEBOT. Ingbedients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Choose a middling-sized turbot; for they are invariably the most valuable: if very large, the meat will be tough and thready. Three or four hours before dressing, soak the fish in salt and water to take off the slime; then thoroughly cleanse it, and with a knife make an incision down the middle of the back, to prevent the skin of the belly from cracking. Rub it over with lemon and be particular not to cut off the fins. Lay the fish in a very clean turbot- kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and salt in the above proportion. Let it gradually come to a boil, and skim very carefully; keep it gently simmering, and on no account let it boil fast, as the fish would have a very unsightly appear- ance. When the meat separates easily from the bone, it is done; then take it out, let it drain well, and dish it on a hot napkin. Rub a little bbster spawn through a sieve, sprinkle it over the fish, and garnish with tufts of parsley and cut lemon. Lobster or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it.374 Philosophy of Housekeeping. GAHNISH FOR TUBBOT. . Take the crumb of a stale loaf, cut it into small pyramids with flat tops, an on tlio top of each pyramid put rather more than a tablespoouful of white of eg , beaten to a stiff froth. Over this,'^Birinkle finely chopped parsley and tin ' raspings of a dark colour. Arrange tOTse on the napkin round the fish, one greei i and cue brown alternately. COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish; 6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Alode. —Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and rub a little salt over the thick par-; and inside of the fish, one or two . hours before dressing it, as this very mucl improves the flavour. Lay it in the fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water tc cover it. Be very particular not to pour the water on the fish, as it is liable t' break it, and only keep it just simmering. If the water should boil away, add ; little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle, and not on the fish. Add salt ir the above proportion, and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim very carefully; draw it to the side of the fire, and let it gently simmer till done. Take it oul and drain it; serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and horse- radish, ROAST PIGEON'S. Ingeedients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter; pepper and salt to tasto. ?'r?wsi«(7.—Pigeons, to be good, should be eaten fresh (if kept a little, the flavour goes ofi ), and they should be drawn as soon as killed. Cut off the heads and necks, truss the wings over the backs, and cut off the toes at the first joint; previous to trussing, they should be carefully cleaned, as no bird requires so much washing. Mode.—Wipe the birds very dry, seasonr them inside with pepper and salt, and put I oz. of butter into the body of each: this makes them moist. Put Ihem down to a bright fire, and baste them well the whole of the time they are cooking (they will be done enough in from 20 to 30 minutes); garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a tureen of pai-sley and butter. Bread sauce and gravy, the same as for roast fowl, are exceedingly nice accompaniments to roast pigeons, as also egg-sauce. ROAST PHEASANT. Ia'GREDIEKTS.—Pheasant, flour, butter. Choosing and Triissinsr.—Old pheasants may be known by the length and shni-pness of their spurs; in young ones they are short and blunt. The cock- bird is generally reckoned the best, except when the hen is with egg. They should hang S(>me time before they are dressed, as, if they ai-8 cooked fresh, the375 Roast Duck, flesh will be exceedingly dry and tasteless. After the bird is plucked and drawn, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and truss it in the same manner as partridge. If the head is left ou as shown in the Coloured PJate,.bring it round under the wing, and fix it on the point of the skewaij^ Mode.—Roast it before a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and flour and froth it nicely. Serve with brown gi'avy, a little of which should be poured round the bird, and a tui'een of bread-sauce. Two or three of the pheasant's best tail- feathers are sometimes stuck in the tail as an ornament; but the fashion is not much to be commended, TO FRY SMELTS. Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour; boiling lard. 3/ocZe.—Smelts should be very fresh, and not washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip them in egg, and sprinkle over with very fine bread-crumbs, and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a nice pale brown, and be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before the fire on a drainer, and servo with plain melted butter. This fish is often used as a garnish. ROAST FOWL, WITH WATERCRESSES. Ingredients.—A fowl, a lai-ge bunch of water-cresses, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, ^ pint of gravy. Mode.—Truss and roast a fowl, taking care that it is nicely frothed and brown. Wash and dry the water-cresses, pick them nicely, and arrange them in a flat layer on a dish. Sprinkle over a little salt and the above proportion of vinegar ; place over those the fowl, and pour over it the gravy, A little gravy should be served in a tureen. When not liked, the vinegar may be omitted. ROAST DUCK. Ingredients.—A duck, sage-and-onion stuffing, a little flour. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose ducks with plump bellies, and with thick and yellowish feet. Truss with the feet on, which should be scalded and the skin peeled off, and then turned up close to the legs. Run a skewer through the middle of each leg, after having drawn them as close as possible to the body, to plump up the breast, passing the same quite through the body. Cut off the head and neck and the pinions at the first joint; bring these close to the sides, twist the feet round, and twist them at the back of the bird. After the duck is stuffed, both ends should be secured with string, so as to keep in the seasoning. Mode.—To ensure ducks being tender, never dress them the same day they are killed ; and if the weather permits, they should hang a day or two. Make a etuffmg of sage and onion sufficient for one duck. Put down to a brisk clear fire, 2 C Z876 Philosophy of Housekeeping, ^ and keep well basted the whole of the time it is cooking. A few minutes bofo.j ., serving, dredge lightly with flour, to make it froth and look plump; and wh«4 the steam draws towards the fire, send them to table hot and quickly, withn good brown gravy poured round but not over the duck, and a little of the sana '• in a turooa. When in season, green peas should invariably accompany tbii ^'^ dish. ii' BOILED TURKEY, ^' (it: Ingredients.—Turkey, forcemeat, bacon. .w Choosiuff and Trussinr/.—Hen turkeys are preferable for boiling, on accouw * of their whiteness and tenderness, and one of moderate size should be selectet^ as a large one is not suitable for this mode of cooking. They should not I i« dressed until they have been killed 3 or 4 days, as they will neither look whit<j *f nor will they be tender. Pluck the bird, carefully draw, and singe it with a piec-o «''■ of paper ; wash it inside and out, and wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth. Ci. c ofif the head and neck, draw the strings or sinews of the thighs, and cut off tl legs at the first jeint; draw the legs into the body, fill the breast with forcemeat run a skewer through the wing and the middle joint of the leg, quite into the le and wing on the opposite side ; break the breastbone, and make the bird loo ,^ as round and as compact as possible. j. Mode.—Put the turkey into suf&cient Jiot water to cover it; let it come t ' ^ a boil, then carefully remove all the scum: if this is attended to, there is n- < '= occasion to boil the bird in a floured cloth ; but it should be well covered wit : ^ the water. Let it simmer very gently for about 1^ hour to 1^^ hour, according t > it the size, and serve with either white, celery, oyster, or mushroom sauce, o i " parsley-and-butter, a little of which should be poured over the turkey. Boilc' ham, bacon, tongue, or pickled pork, should always accompany this di.sh ; ani i when oyster sauce is served, the tm-key should be stuCfed with oyster force }' meat. ROAST TURKEY. iNGREcnsNTS.—Turkey, forcemeat, sausages. Mode.—Fasten a sheet of buttered paper on to the breast of the bird, put i down to a bright fire, at some little distance at first (afterwards draw it nearer) and keep it well basted the whole of the time it is cooking. About ^ hour befon : serviug, remove the paper, dredge the turkey lightly with flour, and put a piec of butter into the basting-ladle ; as the butter melts, baste the bird with it When of a nice brown and well frothed, serve with a tureen of good brown grav} and one of bread sauce. Fried sausages are a favourite addition to roast turkey they make a pretty garnish, besides adding very much to the flavour. Whei these are not at hand, a few forcemeat balls should be placed round the dish a; a garnish. Turkey may also be stuffed with sausage-meat, and a chestnut force meat with the same sauce is, by many persons, much esteemed as an accompani- ment to this favourite dish.877 Boiled B-abbit. ROAST GOOSE. Ingeedients.—Goosej 4 large onions, 10 sage-leaves, J lb. of bread-crumbs, 1 h OH. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. t'hoosing and Trttssint/.—Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump breast, and yellow feet: if these latter are red, the bird is old. Should the weather permit, let it hang for a few days: by so doing, the flavour will be very much impi'oved. Pluck, singe, draw, and carefully wash and wipe the goose; cut ofif the neck cl jse to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over ; cut off the feet at the first joint, and separate the pinions at the first joint. Beat the breast-bone ffat with a rolling-pin, put a skewer through the under part of each wing, and Laving drawn up the legs closely, put a skewer into the middle of each, and pass the same quite through the body. Insert another skewer into the small of the leg, bring it close down to the side-bone, run it through, and do the same to the other side. Now cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin suEBciently large for the passage of the rump, in order to keep in the seasoning. Mode.—Make a sage-and-onion stuffing of the above ingredients; put it into the body of the goose, and secure it firmly at both ends, by passing the rump through the hole made in the skin, and the other end by tying the skin of the neck to the back ; by this means the seasoning will not escape. Put it down to a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and roast from to.2 hours, according to the size. Eemove the skewers, and serve with a tureen of good gravy, and one of well-made apple-sauce. Should a very highly-flavoured seasoning be preferred, the onions should not be parboiled, but minced raw: of the two methods, the mild seasoning is far superior. A ragout, or pie, should be made of the giblets, or they may be stewed down to make gravy. Be careful to serve the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be spoiled by coming flattened to table. As this is rather a difficult joint to carve, a large quantity of gravy should not bo poured round the goose, but sent in a tureen. BOILED RABBIT. Ingredients.—Rabbit, water. Mode.—For boiling, choose rabbits with smooth and sharp claws ; as that denotes they are young: should these be blunt and nigged, the ears dry aud tough, the animal is old. After emptying and,skinning it, wash it well in eold water, and let it soak for about \ of an hour in warm water to draw out the blood. Bring the head round to the side, and fasten it there by means of a skewer run through that and the body. Put the rabbit into sufiicient hot water to cover it, and let it boil very gently until tender, which will be from Ho f hour, according to its size and age. Dish it, and smother it either with'onions, mushroom, or liver sauce, or parsley-and-butter ; the former is, however, generally preferred to any of the last-named sauces. When liver-sauce is preferred, the liver should be boiled for a few minutes, and minced very finely, or rubbed through a sieve before it is added to the sauce.378 Philosophy of Housekeeping. FBIED SOLES. iNcmnmENTS.—Two middling-sized soles, hot lard or clarified dripping, eggj and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Skin and cai'efully wash the soles, and out oflf the fins, wipe them vei-j. dry, and let them remain in the cloth until it is time to dress them. Have readj some fine bread-crumbs and beaten egg; dredge tlio soles with a little fiour brush them over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Put thorn into a deej pan with plenty of clarified dripping or lard (when the expense is not objected to., i.- oil is still better) boiling, so that it may neither scorch tho fish nor make thema sodden. When they arc sufficiently cooked on one side, turn them carefully', ancc brown them on the other : they may be considered ready when a thick smokt rises. Lift them out carefully, and lay them before the fire on a reversed sieve j and soft paper, to absorb the fat. Particular attention should be paid to this, a:' nothing is more disagreeable than greasy fish : this may be always avoided b]. - dressing them in good time, and allowing a few minutes for them to get thoroughb crisp, and free from greasy moisture. Dish them on a hot napkin, garnish witl cut lemon and fried parsley, and send them up to table with shrimp sauce anc; plain melted butter. BROILED MACKEREL. Ingredients.—Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil. Mode.—Mackerel should never be washed when intended to be broiled, bu merely wiped very clean and dry, after taking out the gills and inside. Open thi back, and put in a little pepper, salt, and oil; broil it over a clear fire, turn i over on both sides, and also on the back. When sufficiently cooked, the flesh cai be detached from the bone, which will be in about ten minutes for a smal mackerel. Chop a little parsley, work it up in the butter, with pepper and sal. to taste, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and put it in the back. Serve before th .< butter is quite melted, with a mAitre d'hOtel sauce in a tureen. FRIED FILLETED SOLES. Soles for filleting should bo larg*e, as the flesh can be more easily separated froDT ihe bones, and there is less waste. Skin and wash the fish, and raise the mea carefully from the bones, and divide it into nice handsome pieces. The mori ; usual way is to roll the fillets, after dividing each one into two pieces, and eitke i ^ bind them round with twine, or run a small skewer through them. Brush ther : over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs; fry them as directed in the fort going recipe, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. When a pretty dis is desired, this is by far tho most elegant mode of dressing soles, as they loo much better than when fried whole. Instead of rolling the fillets, they may b cut into square pieces, and arranged in tho shape ol a pyramid on tho dish.879 Koast Partridge. EED MTJIiLET. Ingredients.—Oiled paper, thickening of butter and flour, ^ tea-spoonful of ichovy sauce, 1 glass of sherry; cayenne and salt to taste. Ilode.—Clean the fish, -take out the gills, and leave the inside, fold in oiled I per, and bake them gently. When done, take the liquor that flows from the 50, add a thickening of butter kneaded with flour ; put in the other ingredients, id let it boil for two minutes. Serve the sauce in a tureen, and the fish either ith or without the paper cases. TO BOIL IiOBSTEBS. Ingredients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Buy the lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of lotion, which is an indication of their freshness. When the shell is encrusted, it 1 a sign they are old : medium-sized lobsters are the best. Have ready a stewpan f boUiug water, salted in the above proportion ; put in the lobster, and keep it oQing quickly from 20 minutes to f hour, according to its size, and do not forget ) skim well. If it boils too long, the meat becomes thready, and if not done Qough, the spawn is not red : this must be obviated by great attention. Rub le shell over with a little butter or sweet oil, which wipe off again. TO DBESS CBAB. Ingredients.—1 crab, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 ditto of oil; salt, white iepper, and cayenne, to taste. Mode.—Empty the shells, and thoroughly mix the meat with the above ingre- .ients, and put it into the large shell. Garnish with slices of cut lemon and parsley. ?h© quantity of oil may be increased when it is much liked. BOAST PABTBIDGE. Ingredients.—Partridge, butter. Choosing and Trussing—Choose young birds, with dark-coloured bills and ellowish legs, and let them hang a few days, or there will be no flavour to the esh, nor will it be tender. The time they should be kept entirely depends on be taste of those for whom they are intended, as what some persons would con- ider delicious would be to others disgusting aad offensive. They may be trussed nth or without tho head, the latter mode being now considered the most fashion- ble. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge carefully inside and out; cut ofl" the lead, leaving sufficient skin on tho neck to skewer back ; bring the legs close to bo breast, between it and the side-bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions ,nd the thick part of the thighs. When the head is left on, it should be brought ound and fixed on to the point of the skewer. Roast before a pice bright fire ; keep it well bagted, and a few minutes880 PhiloBophy of Housekeeping, before serving flour and salt it well. Dish and serve with gravy and bre. crumbs, and sond to table hot and quickly, '■' i- ROAST HARE. Ingredients.—Hare, forcemeat, a little milk, butter, f Choosing' and Trussing.—Choose a young hare, which may be known by. ? smooth and sharp claws, and by the cleft in the lip not being much spread. be eaten in perfection, it must hang for some time ; and, if properly taken a- of, it may be kept for several days. It is better to hang without being paunche f- bxxt should it be previously emptied, wipe the inside every day, and sprinkle o- - it a little pepper and ginger, to prevent the musty taste which long keeping. ^' the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuflSng. After it is skinned, Wi; ^ well, and soak for an hour in warm water to draw out the blood ; if old, let it in vinegar for a short time, but wash it well afterwards in several waters. Mc i ^ a forcemeat, wipe the hare dry, fill the belly with it, and sew it up. Bring > hind and fore legs close to the body towards the head, run a skewer throu each, fix the head between the shoulders by means of another skewer, and careful to leave the ears on. Put a string round the body from skewer to skew and tie it above the back. F. Mode.—The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire when it is fi" y. put down, or the outside will become dry and hard before the inside is do:: „ Baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with butter; and p; ^ ticular attention must be paid to the basting, so as to preserve the meat the back juicy and nutritive. When it is almost roasted enough, flour the ha j. and baste well with butter. When nicely frothed, dish it, remove the skewe ,■ and send it to table with a little gravy in the dish, and a tureen of the sar , Red-currant jelly must also not be forgotten, as this is an indispensable acco paniment to roast hare. For economy, good beef dripping may be substitut for the milk and butter to baste with ; but the basting must be continued withe intermission. If the liver is good, it may be parboiled, minced, and mixed with \ stuffing; but it should not be used unless quite fresh. BOILED FOWL OR CHIOKEW. \ Ingredients, - A fine fowl, water. I Choosing and Trussing.—In choosing a fowl for boiling, it should be borne mind that those that are not black-legged are generally much whiter wb ^ dressed. Pick, draw, singe, wash, and truss it in the following manner, wi- • out the liver in the wings; and, in drawing, be careful not to break the gr ' bladder :—Cut off the neck, leaving sufficient skin to skewer back. Cut the ft - off to the first joint, tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the bel twist the wings over the back of the fowl, and secure the top of the leg and t bottom of the wing together by running a skewer through them and the boc881 Larded Fowl. The other side must be done in the same manner. Should the fowl be vei-y large and old, dj-aw the sinews of the legs before tucking them in. Make a slit in the apron of the fowl, largo enough to admit the parson's nose, and tie a string on the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper place. Mode.—When firmly trussed, put it into a stewpan with plenty of hot water , bring it to boil, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Simmer very gently until the fowl is tender, and bear in mind that the slower it boils the plumper and whiter will the fowl be. Many cooks wrap it in a floured cloth to preserve the colour, and to prevent the scum from clinging to it ; in this case, a few slices of lemon should be placed on the breast; over these a sheet of buttered paper, and then the cloth. Cooking the fowl in this manner renders the flesh very white. Boiled ham, bacon, boiled tongue, or pickled pork is the usual accompaniment to boiled fowl, and the fowl may be served with bechamel, white sauce, parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, celery, or mushroom sauce. A little should be poured over the bird after the skewers are removed, and the remainder sent in a tureen to table. TO ROAST SmPES. Ingredients.—Snipes, butter, flour, toast. Mode.—These, like woodcocks, should be dressed without being drawn. Pluck, and wipe them outside, and tniss them with the head under the wing, having previously skinned that and the neck. Twist the legs at the first joint, press the feet upon the thighs, and pass a skewer through these and the body. Place four on a skewer, tie them on to the jack or spit, and roast before a clear fire for about \ hour. Put some pieces of buttered toast into the dripping-pan to catch the trails ; flour and froth the birds nicely, dish the pieces of toast with the snipes on them, and pour round, but not over them, a little good brown gravy. They should be sent to table very hot and expeditiously, or they will not be worth eating. LARDED FOWL. Ingredients.—Fowl, bacon, lardoons. 3/ocZe.—Bacon for larding should bo firm and fat, and ought to be cured without any saltpetre, as this reddens white meats. Lay it on a table, the rind downwards ; trim ofi' any rusty part, and cut it into slices of any equal thickness. Place the 'slices on the top of one another, and cut them evenly into narrow strips, so arranging it that every piece of bacon is of the same size. Bacon for fricandeaux, poultry, and game should be about two inches in length, and rather more than one-eighth of an inch in width. If for larding fillets of beef or loin of veal, the pieces of bacon must be thicker. Truss the fowl in the following manner ;-After having carefully picked it, cut off the head, and skewer the 8km of the neck down over the back. Cut off the claws ; dip the legs in boiling water, and scrape them; turn the pinions under, run a skewer through them and882 Philosophy of Housekeeping. the middle of the legs, which should be passed through the body to the piniot. svnd leg on tho other side, one skewer securing the limbs on both sides. Th( liver and gizzard should be placed in tho wings, the liver on one side and th< gizzard on the other. Tie the legs together by passing a trussing-needle threaded with twine, through tho back-bone, and secure it on the other side. I trussed like a capon, the legs are placed more apart. When firmly trussed, singe all over, and begin to lard in three distinct linos across the breast i incl apart. Place the larding-needlo in, and di-aw it out at the exact opposite point place the bacon in the needle, andi>ull it through, leaving h inch of bacon on eacl side. Proceed thus until three rows ai-e finished. Put it down to a bright cleai" fire, paper the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, and keep the fowj Well basted. Roast for f hour, more or less, according to the size, and 10 rninutes before serving, remove the paper, dredge the fowl with a little fine flour, put a piece of butter into the basting-ladle, and as it melts, baste the fowl with it; when nicely frothed and of a rich colour, serve with good brown gravy, a little of which should be poured over the fowl, and a tureen of well-made bread- sauce. Mushroom, oyster, or egg sauce is a very suitable accompaniment to roast fowl. BOILED CALF'S HEAD. INGBEDIENTS.—Calf's head, water, a little salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablesiDoonful of minced parsley, jjepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—After the head has been thoroughly cleaned, and the brains removed, soak it in warm water to blanch it. Lay the brains also into warm water to soak,: and let them remain for about an hour. Put the head into a stewpan, with suffi- cient cold water to cover it, and when it boils add a little salt; take off every particle of scum as it rises, and boil the head until perfectly tender. Boil the brains, chop them, and mix them with melted butter, minced parsley, pepper,- salt, and lemon-juice in the above proportion. Take up the head, skin the" tongue, and put it on a small dish with the brains round it. Have ready some parsley and butter, smother the head with it, and the remainder send to table inr a tureen. Bacon, ham, pickled pork, or a pig's cheek is indispensable with calf's head. The brains are sometimes chopped with hard-boiled eggs, and mixed with a little bechamel or white sauce. BOILED KOUND OF BEEF. Ingredients.—Beef, water. Mode.—As a whole round of beef, generally speaking, is too large for small families, and very seldom required, we here give the recipe for dressing a portion of the silver side of the round. Take from 12 to 16 lb., after it has been in salt about 10 days; just wash off the salt, skewer it up in a nice round-lookmg form, and bind it with tape to keep the skewers ia their places. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, se*- it upon a good fire, and when it begins to boil, carefullyBoast Leg of Pork. icmvivc all scum from the suifaco ; as, if this is not attended to, it sinks on to the meat, and, when bi'ought to table, presents a very unsightly appearance. When it is well skimmed, draw the pot to the corner of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until done. Remove the tape and skewers, which should bo replaced by a silver one; pour over it a little of the pot-liquor, and garnish with carrots. Carrots, turnips, parsnips, and sometimes suet dumplings, accompany this dish; and these may all be boiled with the beef. The pot- liquor should be saved, and converted into pea-soup ; and the outside slices, which are generally hard and of an uninviting appearance, may be cut off before being sent to table, and potted. These make an excellent relish for the breakfast or luncheon table. KOAST SmTiOIN OF BEEP. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode.—As a joint cannot be well roasted without a good firo, see that it is well made up about f hom* before it is required, so that when the joint is put down, it is clear and bright. Choose a nice sirloin, the weight of which should not exceed 16 lb., as the outside would be too much done, whilst the inside would not be done enough. Spit it or hook it on to the jack firmly, dredge it slightly with flour, and place it neai- the fire at first, as directed in the preceding recipe. Then draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done. Sprinkle a small quantity of salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water slightly salted, stir it about, and strain over the meat. Garnish with tufts of horseradish, and send horseradish sauce and Yorkshire pudding to table with it. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. Ingredients.—Mutton, water, salt, Mode.—A. leg of mutton for boiling should not hang too long, as it will not look a good colour when dressed. Cut ofi" the shank-bone, trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean ; plunge it into suflicient boiling water to cover it; let it boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, where it should remain till the finger can be home in the water. Then place it suflSciently near the fire, that the water may gently simmer, and be very careful that it does not boil fa.st, or the meat will be hard. Skim well, add a little salt, and in about 2i hours after the water begins to simmer, a moderate-sized leg of mutton will be done. Servo with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce to table with it in a tm-eeu. k EOAST LEG- OP POEK. iNGREmFNTS.-Leg of pork, a little oil, sage-and-onion stuffing. ^oc/e.-Choose a small log of pork, and score the skin across in narrow strips,m Philosophy of Housekeeping. about a ^ inch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with sago-and-onion stuffing. Prush the joint over with a little salad-oil (this maket the crackling crisper, and a hotter colour), and put it down to a bright, cleai iiro,—not too near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it well, ano serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and do not omit to send tc table with it a turoen of well-made apple-sauce. STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND BICE. Ingredients.—Knuclde of veal, 1 onion, 2 blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful o:' salt, ^ lb. of rice. Mode,—Have the knuckle cut small, or cut some cutlets from it, that it may b(; just large enough to be eaten the same day it is dressed, as cold boiled veal is no-: a particularly tempting dish. Break the shank-bone, wash it clean, and put th(: meat into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it gradually come to <• i boil, put in the salt, and remove the scum as fast as it rises. When it has sim mered gently for about f hour, add the remaining ingredients, and stew thi whole gently for 2j hours. Put the meat into a deep dish, and pour over it thi i rice, &c., and send boiled bacon, and a tureen of i^arsley and butter, to tabl<: with it. Note.—Macaroni, instead of rice, boiled with the veal, will be found good; or the ric and macaroni may be omitted, and the veal sent to table smothered in parsley and butter. LOIN OF VEAL, with. Forcemeat. IngeEDIENTS.—The chump end of a loin of veal, forcemeat, a few slices o bacon, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, h teaspoonful of whole whit :^ pepper, 1 pint of veal stock or water, 5 or 6 green onions. 3f ode.—Cnt off the chump from a loin of veal, and take out the bone ; till th i cavity with forcemeat, tie it up tightly, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone and trimmings, and cover the veal with a few slices of bacon. Add the herbs - mace, pepper, and onions, and stock or water ; cover thepanwithaclosely-fittin., lid, and simmer for 2 hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. Take out th bacon, herbs, and onions; reduce the gravy, if not already thick enough, to glaze, with which glaze the meat, and serve with tomato, mushroom, or sorrc sauce. CALF'S TONGUE AND BIIA.IN3. Ingredients.—Tongue and brains of a calf ; seasoning. Mode.—Teel the tongue, and cut it into thin slices, or serve whole, as illu; = tratcd. Boil the brains in a cloth, chop it fine, and beat it up with the egg, flou:" milk, and nutmeg. Have ready a fi7ing-pan of boiling lard, and fry the mixtui in fritters the siso of a crown-piece. Flavour the gravy with a seasoning < | pepper, salt, and mace, herbs, onion, and cayenne popper; let it simmer L-'385 Shoulder of Lamb Stuffed. minutes, strain it, and add the wine and mushrooms. Place the sliced head and tongue in this, and let it warm gently for 10 minutes. Serve with the brain, frittei-s, bacon, and forcemeat balls round; strew egg-balls over the whole. BOAST HIND LOIN OF POBK. Ingredients.—Pork, a little salt. Mode.—Score the skin in strips rather more than ^ inch apart, and place the joint at a good distance from the fire, on account of the crackling, which would harden before the meat would be heated through, were it placed too near. If very lean, it should be rubbed over with a little salad oil, and kept well basted all the time it is at the fire. Pork should be very thoroughly cooked, but not dry ; and be careful never to send it to table the least underdone, as nothing is more unwholesome and disagreeable than undressed white meats. Serve with apple sauce, and a little gravy made in the dripping-pan. A stuffing of sage and onion may be made separately, and baked in a flat dish: this method is better than putting it in the meat, as many persons object to the flavom-. EOAST SPAKE-BIB OF POBK. Ingredlexts.—Pork, a little powdered sage. Mode.—Aa this joint frequently comes to table hard and dry, particular caro should be taken that it is well basted. Put it down to a bright fire, and flour it. About 10 minutes before taking it up, sprinkle over some powdered sage ; make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, strain it over the meat, and serve with a tureen of apple sauce. This joint will be done in far less time when the skin is left on ; consequently, should have attention that it be not dried up. BOILED LEG OF POBK. Ingredients.—Leg of pork, salted. iVode.—U the pork be purchased ready salted, ascertam how long the meat I as been in pickle, and cook accordingly. Place it in a boiling-pot with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it come gradually to a boil, removing the scum as it rises. Simmer gently until tender, and do not allow it to boil fast, or the knuckle will fall to pieces before tho middle of the leg is done. Garnish with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and with parsley. SHOULDEB OF LAMB STUFFED. INGREDIENTS.-Shculder of lamb, forcemeat, trimmings of veal or beef 2 or.ions, ^ head of celery, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a few slices of fat bacon 1 quart of stock. ' Mode.-TaU the blade-bone out of a shoulder of lamb, fill up its place with forcemeat, and sew it up with coarse thread. Put it into a stewpan, with a few .hoes of bacon under and over the lamb, and add the remaining in^ro 13886 Philosophy of Housekeeping. dients. Stew very gently for rather more than 2 hours. Reduce the gravy, with which glaze the moat, and serve with peas, stewed cucumbers, or sorrel sauce. BOLLED LOIN OF MUTTON. Inqeedients.—About 6 pounds of a loin of mutton, J teaspoonful of pepper, I teaspoonful of pounded allspice, J teaspoonful of mace, | teaspoonful of nutmeg, 6 cloves, forcemeat, 1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Hang the mutton till tender, bone it, and sprinkle over it pepper, mace, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg in the above proportion, all of which must be pounded very fine. Let it remain for a day, then make a forcemeat, cover the meat with it, and roll and bind it up firmly. Half bake it in a slow oven, let it grow cold, take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan; flour the meat, put it in the gravy, and stew it perfectly tender. Now take out the meat, unbind it, add to the gravy wine and ketchup as above, give one boil, and pour over the meat. Serve with red-currant jelly; and, if obtainable, a few mushrooms, stewed for a few minutes in the gravy, will be found a great improvement. BOAST SADDLE OP MUTTON. Ingredients.—Saddle of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—To ensure this joint being tender, let it hang for 10 days or a fortnight, if the weather permits. Cut off the tail and flaps, and trim away every part that has not indisputable pretensions to be eaten, and have the skin taken off and skewered on again. Put it down to a bright, clear fire, and, when the joint has been cooking for an hour, remove the skin and dredge it with flour. It should not be placed too near the fire, as the fat should not be in the slightest degree burnt, but kept constantly basted, both before and after the skin is removed. Sprinkle some salt over the joint; make a little gi-avy in the dripping-pan ; pour it over the meat, which send to table with a tureen of gravy and red-currant jelly. BOAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Ingredients.—Shoulder of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—Put the joint doVn to a bright, clear fire; flour it well, and keep continually basting. About | hour before serving, draw it near the fire, that the •outside may acquire a nice brown colour, but not suflficieutly near to blacken the meat. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, empty the dripping-pan of its •contents, pour in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this ovtr the joint. Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, are usually sent to table with this dish, and sometimes baked potatoes. BOAST HAUNCH OF MUTTON. iNGnEDIENTS.—ITaunch of mutton, a little salt, flour.SS7 A Ham Garnished. Mode.—Lot this joint hang as loDg as possible without becoming tainted, and while hanging dust flour over it, which keeps off the flies, and prevents the air from getting to it. If not well hung, the joiiit, when it comes to table, will do credit neither to the butcher nor the cook, as it will not be tender. Wash the outside well, lest it should have a bad flavour from keeping ; then flom- it and put it down to a nice brisk fire, at some distance, so that it may gradually warm through. Keep continually basting, and about ^ hour before it is served, draw it nearer to the fire to get nicely brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, pour off the diippicg, add a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Place a paper ruche on the bone, and send red-currant jelly and gravy in a tureen to table with it. BOAST LEG OF MUTTON". Ingbedients.—Leg of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—As mutton, when freshly killed, is never tender, hang it almost as long as it will keep ; flour it, and put it iu a cool au-y place for a few days, if the weather will permit. "Wash off the flour, wipe it very dry, and cut off the shank- bone ; put it down to a brisk, clear fire, dredge with floui-, and keep continually basting the whole time it is cooking. About 20 minutes before serving, draw it near the fire to get nicely brown ; sprinkle over it a little salt, dish the meat,, pour off the dripping, add some boihng water slightly salted, strain, and serve, A HAM GARNISHED. Ingbedients.—Ham, water, glaze, or raspings. Mode.—In choosing a ham, ascertain that it is perfectly sweet, by running a. sharp knife into it, close to the bone; and if, when the knife is withdrawn, it has an agreeable smeU, the ham is good ; if, on the contrary, the blade has a greasy appearance and offensive smell, the ham is bad. If it has been long hung, and it is verj- dry and salt, let it remain in soak for 24 hours, changing the water fre- quently. This length of time is only necessary in the case of its being very hard ; from 8 to 12 hoiu-s would be sufiicient for a Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham. Wash it thoroughly clean, and trim away from the under side all the rusty and smoked pai-ts, which would spoil the appearance. Put it into a boiling-pot,, with suflBcient cold water to cover it; bring it gradually to boil, and as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Keep it simmering very gently until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiling, nor boil too quickly. When done, take it out of the pot, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over it a few fine bread-raspings, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and serve. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in tho water until nearly cold: by this method the juices ara kept in, and it will be found infinitely superior to one taken out of the water hot;. it should, however, bo borne in mind that the ham must not remain in the sauce- l)an uU night. When the skin is removed, sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if • wanted particularly nice, glaze it. Place a paper frill round the knuckle, and; garnish with parsley or cut vegetable flowers. i383 Philosophy of Housekeeping. BOAST SUCKINa-PIQ. Ingredients.—Pig, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, 16 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salad oil or butter to ba?te with, about J pint of gravy, 1 tablcspoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—A sucking-pig, to be eaten in perfection, should not be more than three weeks old, and should be dressed the same day that it is killed. After preparing the pig for cooking, stuff it with finely-grated bread- crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter the size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and put into the body of the pig. Sew up the slit neatly, and truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, and the under part to be crisp. Put the pig down to a bright clear fire, not too near, and let it lie till thoroughly dry ; then have ready some butter tied up in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. Keep it well rubbed with the butter the whole of the time it is roasting, and do not allow the crackling to become blistered or burnt. When half-done, hang a pig-iron before the middle part (if this be not obtainable, use a flat iron), to prevent its being scorched and dried up before the ends are done. Before it is taken from the fire, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the middle. Chop the brains and mix them with the stufiing ; add ^ pint of good gravy, a tablcspoonful of lemon-juice, and the gravy that flowed from the pig ; put a little of this on the dish with the pig, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Place the pig back to back in the dish, with one half of the head on each side, and one of the ears at each end, and send it to table as hot as possible. Instead of the butter, many cooks take salad oil for basting, which makes the crackling a-isjj; and as this is one of the principal things to be considered, perhaps it is desirable to use it; but be particular that it is very pure, or it will impart an unpleasant flavour to the meat. The brains and stufiing may be stirred into a tureen of melted butter instead of gravy, when the latter is not liked. Apple sauce and the old- fashioned currant sauce are not yet obsolete as accompaniments to roast pig. ROAST FORE-QUARTER OP LAMB. Ingredients.—Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—To obtain the flavour of lamb in perfection, it should not be long kept; time to cool is all that is required ; and though the meat may be somewhat thready, the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb that has been killed 2 or 3 days. Make up the fire in good time, that it may be c^ear and brisk when the joint is put down. Place it at sufficient distance to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till the moment of serving. Lamb should be very thoroughly done without being dried up, and not the slightest appearance of red gravy should be visible, as in roast mutton : this rule is appli- cable to all young white meats. Servo with a little gravy made in the dripping- pan, the same as for other roasts, and send to table with a tureen of mint sauce and' a fresh salad. A cut lemon, a small piece of fresh butter, and a littla389 Stewed Fillet of Veal. cayenne should also be placed on the table, so that when the carver separates the shoulder from the ribs, they may be ready for his use ; if, however, he should not bo very expert, the cook should divide these joints nicely before coming to table. A FRENCH MODE OF COOKING ARTICHOKES. Ingredients.—5 or 6 artichokes ; to each § gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of pepper, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 oz. of butter. J/ofZe.—Cut the ends of the leaves, as also the stems ; put the artichokes into boiling water, with the above proportion of salt, pepper, herbs, and butter; let them boil quickly until tender, keeping the lid of the saucepan off, and when the leaves come out easily, they are cooked enough. To keep them a beautiful green, put a large piece of cinder into a muslin bag, and let it boil with them. Serve with plain melted butter. BOILED ASPARAGUS. Ingredients.—To each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; asparagus. Mode.—Asparagus should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut, although it may be kept for a day or two by putting the stalks into cold water ; yet, to be good, like every other vegetable, it cannot be cooked too fresh. Scrape the white part of the stems, hef/inning from the head, and throw them into cold water ; then tie them into bundles of about 20 each, keeping the heads all one way, and cut the stalks evenly, that they may all be the same length ; put them into hoiling water, with salt in the above proportion ; keep them boiUng quickly until tender, with the saucepan uncovered. When the asparagus is done, dish it upon toast, which should be dipped into the water it was cooked in, and leave the white ends outwards each way, with the points meeting in the middle. Sen o with a tureen of melted butter. STEWED FILLET OP VEAL. Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, forcemeat, thickening of butter and flour, a few mushrooms, white pepper to taste. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, 2 blades of pounded mace, h, glass of sheny, h pint of weak stock. Mode.—If the whole of the leg is purchased, take off the knuckle to stew, and also the square end, which will serve for cutlets or pies. Remove the bone, and fill the space with a forcemeat. Roll and skewer it up firmly; place a few skewers at the bottom of the stewpan to prevent the meat from sticking, and cover the veal with a little weak stock. Let it simmer very (jenilij until tender, as the more slowly veal is stewed the better. Strain and thicken the sauce, flavour it with lemon-juice, mace, sherry, and white pepper; give one boil, and390 Philosophy of Housekeeping. pour it ovor tho meat. The skewers should be removed, and replaced by a silver cue, and the dish garnished with slices of cut lemon. OTJKRIED RABBIT. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 pint of stock, 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of mushroom powder, tho juice of h lemon, ^ lb. of rice. Mode.—Empty, skin, and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it neatly into joints. Put it into a stewpan with the butter and sliced onions, and let them acquire a nice brown colour, but do not allow them to blacken. Pour in the stock which should be boiling ; mix the curry-powder and fiour smoothly with a little water, add it to the stock, with the mushroom powder, and simmer gently for rather more than h hour ; squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve in the centre of a dish, with an edging of boiled rice all round. Where economy is studied, water may be substituted for the stock; in this case, the meat and onions must be very nicely browned. A little sour apple and rasped cocoa-nut stewed with the curry will be found a great improvement. MINCED VEAL, with Bechamel Sauce. INGREDIENTS.—^The remains of a fillet of veal, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, h teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Cut—but do not cJiop—a few slices of cold roast veal as finely as possible, sufiicient to make rather more than 1 lb. weight after being minced. ]\Iake the above proportion of bechamel; add the lemon-peel, put in the veal, and let the whole gradually warm through. When it is at the point of simmering, dish it, and garnish with forcemeat balls and fried sippets of bread. BEEP RISSOLES. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of meat allow f lb. of bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a few chopped savoury herb?, n a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 or 2 eggs, according to the quantity of meat. Mode.—Mince the beef voiy fine, which should be rather lean, and mix with this bread-ci-umbs, herbs, seasoning, and lemon-peel, in the above proportion, to each pound of meat. Make all into a thick paste with 1 or 2 eggs ; divide into balls or cones, and fry a rich brown. Garnish the dish with fried parsley, and send with them to tablo some good brown gravy in a tureen. Instead of gar- nishing with fried parsley, gravy may be poured in the dish, round the nssolos: in this case, it will not be necessary to send any in a tureen. MUTTON CHOPS, with Mashed Potatoes. Ingredients.—Chops, loin or neck of mutton, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, brown gravy, potatoes, or tomato sauce.391 Sweet Omeletts aux Confitures. Mode.—Cut the remains of cold loin or neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and take away a portion of tho fat, should there be too much; dip them in beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown in hot dripping. Arrange them on a dish, around a wall of mashed potatoes, and pour round thom either a good gravy or hot tomato sauce. DISH OF OYSTERS. Ingredients.—Native oysters, lemon. Mode.—Open the oysters in tbe flat shell, arrange in a pyramid round a jar <jovez'ed with a white muslin. Garnish with lemon slices. LAMB CTJTL-ETS AND PEAS. Ingredients.—Cutlets, egg and bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little clarified butter, green peas. Mode.—Cut the cutlets from a neck of lamb, and shape them by cutting off the thick part of the chine bone. Trim oflf most of the fat and all the skin, and scrape the top part of the bones quite clean. Brush the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and season with pepper and salt. Now dip them into clarified butter, sprinkle over a few more bread-crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning them when required. Lay them before the fire to drain, and arrange round the green peas. Serve with a good gravy. SPIlSrACH ATTD EGGS. Ingredients.—Spinach, eggs, and toast. Mode.—Cai-efully wash, boil, strain, and chop the spinach, mould into shape, and edge with diamonds of toast. Poach some new-laid eggs carefully, and arrange on the top. Serve very hot. SWEET OMELETTE AUX COKFITURES. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of apricot, straw- berry, or any jam that may be preferred. Mode.—hlakc the omelet by recipe, only instead of doubling it over, leave it flat in the pan. When quite firm, and nicely brown on one side, turn it carefully on to a hot dish, siiread over the middle of it the jam, and fold the omelet over on each side; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve very quickly. A pretty dish of small omelets may be made by dividing the batter into 3 or 4 portions, and frying them separately; they should then be spread each one with a different kind of preserve, and the omelets rolled over. Always sprinkle sweet omeleta with sifted sugar before being sent to table.392 Philosophy of Housekeeping. OMELETTE AUX PINES HERBES. INGRKDIENTS.—2 Or 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, ^ teocupful of milk. il/oc/e.—Make a thin cream of the flour and milk; then beat up the eggs, mix all together, and a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small fryingpan, and, when very hot, pour in the batter. Let the pan remain for a few minutes over a clear fire ; then sprinkle upon the omelet some chopped herbs and a few shreds of onion ; double the omelet dexterously, and shake it out of the pan on to a hot dish. A simple sweet omelet can bo made by the same process, substituting sugar or preserve for the chopped herbs. CAULIFLOWEKS A LA SAUCE BLANCHE. {Entremets, or Side-dish, to be served with the Second Course.) Ingredients.—3 cauliflowers, ^ pint of sauce blanche, or French melted butter, 3 oz. of butter, salt and water. Mode.—Cleanse the cauliflowers, and cut the stalks off flat at the bottom; boil them until tender in salt and water, to which the above proportion of butter has been added, and be cai'eful to take them up the moment they are done, or they will break, and the appearance of the dish will be spoiled. Drain them well, and dish them in the shape of a large cauliflower. Have ready ^ pint of sauce, pour it over, and serve hot and quickly. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. Ingredients.—6 ozs. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, batter, a few slices of cold mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 kidneys. Mode.—Make a smooth batter of flour, milk, and eggs, in the above propor- tion ; butter a baking-dish, and pour in the batter. Into this place a few slices of cold mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kidneys, which should be cut into rather small pieces ; bake about 1 hour, or rather longer, and send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oysters or mushi-ooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found exceedingly good. BEETROOT. Ingredients.—Beetroot, boiling water. Mode.—When large, young, and juicy, this vegetable makes a very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily be converted into an economical and quickly-made pickle. Beetroot is more frequently served cold than hot: when the latter mode is preferred, melted butter should be sent to the table with it. It may also be stewed with button onions, or boiled and served with roasted cnions. Wash the beets thoroughly; but do not prick or break the skin beforeS33 Boiled Tongue. they are cooked, or they would lose their beautiful colour in boiling. Put them into boiling water, and let them boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be served hot, remove the peel quickly, cut the beet into thick slices, aud send to table melted butter. For salads, pickle, &o., let the root cool, then peel, and cut it into slices. FRICASSEED CHICILENS. Ingredients.—2 small fowls or one large one, 3 oz. of buttei-, a bunch of parsley and green onions, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, 1 shalot, 1 bay-leaf, salt and white pepper to taste, 5 pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Choose a couple of fat plump chickens, and, after drawing, singeing, aud washing them, skin, and carve them into joints ; blanch these in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes; take them out, and immei-se them in cold water to render them white. Put the trimmings, with the necks and legs, into a stew-pan ; add the parsley, oniohs, clove, mace, shalot, bay-leaf, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour to these the water that the chickens were blanched in, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. Have ready another stewpan ; put in the joints of fowl, with the above proportion of butter; dredge them with flour, let them get hot, but do not brown them much; then moisten the fricassee with the gravy made from the trimmings, &c., and stew very gently for | hour. Lift the fowl into another stewpan, skim the sauce, reduce it quickly over the fire, by letting it boil fast, and strain it over them. Add the cream, and a seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne ; let it boil up, and when ready to serve, stir to it the well- beaten yolks of 3 eggs : these should not be put in till the last moment, and the sauce should be made hot, but must not hoil, or it will instantly cmxlle. A few button mushrooms stewed with the fowl are an improvement. PBICANDEAU OF VEAL. IxGREDiENTS.—The best end of a neck of veal (about 21 lb.), lardoons (strips of bacon cut for larding), 2 carrots, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little whole white pepper, a few slices of fat bacon. il/orfe.—Cut away the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal with a sharp knife, scooping it from the bones. Put the bones in with a little water, which will serve to moisten the fricandeau ; they should stew about 1 h hour. Lard the veal, and be careful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau. Stew very gently for three hours; glaze, and serve it on sorrel, spinach, or with a little gravy in the dish. BOILED TONGUE. Inobedien'TS.—1 tongue, a bunch of savoury herbs, water. Mode.—In choosing a tongue, ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth skin, which denotes its being young and tender. If a dried one, and rather hord, soak it at least for 12 hours previously to cooking j if,394 Philosophy of Housokeepmg, owover, it is fresh from tho pickle, 2 or 3 hours will be sufficient for it to remain in soak. Put the tongue into a stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs; let it gi-adually come to a boil, skim well, and simmer very gently until tender. Peel oif the skin, garnish with tufts of cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, and serve. Boiled tongue is frequently sent to table with boiled poultry, instead of Lam, and is, by many jjersons, prefcri-cd. If to serve cold,, peel it, fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through tho top, to straighten it. When cold, glaze it, and put a paper ruche round the root, and garnish with tufts of parsley. BKOILED KIDNEYS. Ingeedients.—Kidneys, butter, pepper, salt, toast. Mode.—Skin and split the kidneys lengthways, place them near a quick fire to broil, cut side downwards; in one minute turn and place butter on the cut side, add pepper and salt, and serve very hot on toast. VEQETABLE MAKROW. Ingeedients.—Vegetable marrows, toast. Mode.—Peel the marrows and divide them lengthwise, boil until tender, and serve on buttered toast, with a good melted-butter sauce. DISH OF PBAWWS AND CEAY-PISH. Ingeedients.—Prawns, cray-fish, bread. Mode. —Cut a mould of bread from a stale loaf, arrange the cray-fish alter- nately with tufts of parsley, placing the largest fish at the bottom, and garnish the pyramid with the prawns. MINCE PIES. Ingeedients.—Grood puff-paste, mincemeat. Mode.—Make some good puff-paste, roll it out to the thickness of about ^ inch, and line some good-sized pattypans with it; fill them with mincemeat, cover with the paste, and cut it off all round close to the edge of the tin. Put the pies into a brisk oven to draw the paste up, and bake for 25 minutes, or longer, should the pies be very large ; brush them over with the white of an egg beaten with the blade of a knife to a stiflf froth ; sprinkle over pounded sugar, and put them into the oven for a minute or two, to diy the egg ; dish the pies on a white d'oyley, and serve hot. They may be merely sprinkled with pounded sugar instead of being glazed, when that mode is preferred. To warm them, put the pies on tho pattypans, and let them remain in the oven for 10 minutes or ^ hour, and they will be almost as good as if freshly made.395 Kaised Pie of Poultry or Game. VOL-AU-VENT. Ingredients.—f to 1 lb. of pufif-paste, fricasseed chickens, rabbits, ragotits, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in thick white sauce. Mode.—Make from | to 1 lb. of puff-paste, taking care that it is very evenly rolled out each time, to insure its rising properly; and if the paste is not extremely light, and put into a good hot oven, this cannot be accomplished, and the vol-au-veni will look very badly. Roll out the paste to the thickness of about Ih inch, and, with a fluted cutter, stamp it out to the desired shape, either round or oval, and, with the point of a small knife, make a slight incision in the paste all round the top, about an inch from the edge, which, when baked, forms the lid. Put the vol-aii-vent into a good brisk oven, and keep the door shut for a few minutes after it is put in. Particular attention should be paid to the heating of the oven, for the paste co-jinot rise without a tolerable degree of heat. When of a nice colour, without eing scorched, withdraw it from the oveu, instantly remove the cover where it was marked, and detach all the soft crumb from the centre : in doing this, be careful not to break the edges of the vol-au-vent; but should they look thin in places, stop them with small flakes of the inside paste, stuck on with the white of an egg. This precaution is necessary, to prevent the fricassee or ragotlt from bursting the case, and so spoiling the appearance of the dish. Fill the vol-aii-vent with a rich mince, or fricassee, or ragotit, or the remains of cold fish flaked and warmed in a good white sauce, and do not make them very liquid, for fear of the gi'avy bursting the crust; replace the lid, and serve. To improve the appearance of the crust, brush it over with the yolk of an egg after it has risen properly. RAISED PIE OF POULTRY OR GAME. INGKEDIENTS.—To every lb. of flour allow h lb. of butter, ^ pint of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, ^ teaspoonful of salt (these are for the crust), 1 large fowl or pheasant, a few slices of veal cutlet, a few slices of dressed ham, forcemeat, seasoning of nutmeg, allspice, pepper and salt, gravy. Mode.—Make a stiff short crust with the above proportion of butter, flour, water, and eggs, and work it up very smoothly ; butter a raised-pie mould, and line it with the paste. Previously to making the crust, bone the fowl, or what- ever bird is intended to be used, lay it, breast downwards, upon a cloth, and season the inside well with pounded mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; then spread over it a layer of forcemeat, then a layer of seasoned veal, and then one of ham, and then another layer of forcemeat, and roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back. Line the pie with forcemeat, put in the fowl, and fill up the cavities with slices of seasoned veal and ham and iorcemeat; wet the edges of the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges together with the paste-pinchers, and decorate it with leaves ; brush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it in a mpderato oven for 4 hours. In the mean time, make a good strong gravy from the bones, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top ; cover this hole with a small398 Philosophy of Housekeeping. loaf, and the pie, when cold, will be ready for use. Let it be reraembered that tho gravy must be considerably reduced before it is poured into the pie ; aa, wlieii cold, it should form a firm jolly, and not be the least degree in a liijuid state. Thii jocipe is suitable for all kinds of poultry or game, using one or more birds, according to the sizo of tho pio intended to be made ; but the birds must always bo boned. Truffles, mushrooms, &c., added to this pie, make it much nicer ; and to enrich it, lard tho fleshy parts of the poultry or game with thin strips of bacon. This method of forming raised pies in a mould is generally called a timhale, and has the advantage of being more easily made than one where the paste is raised by the hands ; the crust, besides, being eatable. MEAT PATTIES. Ingrediekts.—The remains of cold veal; to every \ \h. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of veal gravy, ^ tea«poon!ul of minced lemon-peel; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; one tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour ; puff-paste. Mode.—Mince very small the white meat from a cold fillet of veal; weigh it, and for every \ lb. of meat allow the above proportion of minced ham. Put these into a stewpan with the remaining ingredients, stir over the fire for 10 minutes or \ hour, taking care that the mixture does not burn. Koll out some puff-paste about I inch in thickness ; line the pattypans with this. Put upon each a small piece of bread, and cover with another layer of paste ; brush over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a brisk oven for about \ hour. When done, cut a round piece out of the top, and with a small spoon, take out the bread (be particular in not breaking the outside border of the crust), and fill the patties with the mixture. LOBSTEK SALAD. Inobedients.—1 hen lobster, lettuces, endive, small salad (whatever is in season), a little chopped beetroot, 2 hard-boiled eg,;js, a few slices of cucumber. For dressing—4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 do. of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, the yolks of 2 eggs, cayenne and salt to taste, ^ teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. These ingredients should be mixed perfectly smooth, and form a creamy- looking sauce. j/of^e.—Wash the salad, and thoroughly dry it by shaking it in a cloth. Cut up the lettuces and endive, pour the dressing,on them, and lightly throw in the small salad. Mix all well together with the pickings from the body of the lobster ; pick the meat from the shell, cut it up into nice square pieces, put half in tho salad, the other half reserve for garnishing. Separate tho yolks from tho whites of 2 hard-boiled eggs ; chop the whites very fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad liMitly on a glass dish, and garnish, first with a row of sliced cucumber, then with the pieces of lobster, the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral, and beetroot, placed alternately, and arranged in small separate bunches, so that the colom-s contrast iiiccly.397 A Kice Plum-Cake. MAYONAISi] OF SALMON. Ingredients.—Cold dressed salmon, 1 pint cream, 3 oz. butter, 1 lb. bread- crumbs, salt, popper, mace, 4 eggs. Mode. —Place the salmon with the butter and seasoning in a stewpan for 10 minutes. Heat the cream and steep the bread-crumbs in it for 10 minutes, add the fish and crumbs, and beat smooth in a mortar, well beat the eggs, pour into a buttered mould, and bake for 20 minutes; turn out, and garnish with cauli- llower and cray-fish. RICH WEDDIlSrG-CAKE. Ingredients—5 lb. of the finest flour, 3 lb. of fresh butter, 5 lb. of cur- rants, 2 lb. of sifted loaf-sugar, 2 nutmegs, \ oz. of mace, half \ oz. of cloves, 16 eggs, 1 lb. of sweet almonds, | lb. of candied citron, \ lb. each of candied orange and lemon peel, 1 gill of wine, 1 gill of brandy. J/orfe.—Let the flour be as fine as possible, and well dried and sifted ; the cun-ants washed, picked, and dried before the fire ; the sugar well pounded and sifted; the nutmegs grated ; the spices pounded ; the eggs thoroughly whisked, whites and yolks separately; the almonds pounded with a little orange-flower water ; and the candied peel cut in neat slices. When all these ingredients are prepared, mix them in the following manner. Begin working the butter with the hand till it becomes of a cream-like consistency; stir in the sugar, and when the whites of the egg? are whisked to a solid froth, mix them with the butter and sugar; next, well beat up the yolks for 10 minutes, and adding them to the flour, nut- megs, mace, and cloves, continue beating the whole together for ^ hour or longer^ till wanted for the oven. Then mix in lightly the currants, almonds, and candied peel with the wine and brandy ; and having lined a hoop with buttered paper, fill \t with the mixture, and bake the cake in a tolerably quick oven, taking care, however, not to burn it: to prevent this, the top of it may be covered with a sheet of paper. To ascertain whether the cake is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, withdraw it directly, and if the blade is not sticky, and looks bright, the cake is sufficiently baked. These cakes ai-e usually spread with a thick layer of almond icing, and over that another layer of sugar icing, and after- wards ornamented. In baking a large cake like this, attention must be paid to the heat of the oven; it should not be toD fierce, but have a good soaking heat. A NICE PLUM-CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of fJour, ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, h, lb. of currants, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, ^ pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia or cai-bonate of soda. 3Iode.—?\xi the flour into a basin with the sugar, currants, and sliced candied peel; beat the butter to a cream, and mix all these ingredients together with the milk. Stir the ammonia into 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; add it to the dough, and398 Philosophy of Housekeeping. beat the whole well, until ovorythinj? is thoroughly mixed. Put the dough into a buttered tin, and bake the cake from li to 2 hours. SPONGE-CAKE. Ingredients.—The weight of 8 eggs in pounded loaf-sugar, the weight of 5 in flour, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the eggs into one side of the scale, and take the weight of 8 in pounded loaf-sugar, and the weight of 5 in good dry flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former, put them into a saucepan with the sugar, and let them remain over the fire until milk-warm, keeping them well stirred. Then put them into a bnsin, add the grated lemon-rind, mixed with the brandy, and stir these well together, dredging in the flour very gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stifif froth, stir them to the flour, &c., and beat the cake well for 5 hour. Put it into a buttered mould strewn with a little fine- sifted sugar, and bake the cake in a quick oven for 1| hour. Care must be taken that it is put into the oven immediately, or it will not be light. The flavouring of this cake may be varied by adding a few drops of essence of almonds instead of the grated lemon-rind. OPEN JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM. Ingredients.—pint of jelly, h pint of cream, 1 glass of sherry, sugar to taste. Mode.—Make the above proportion of calf's-feet or isinglass jeUy, colouring and flavouring it in any way that may be preferred; soak a mould, open in the centre, for about I hour in cold water ; fill it with the jelly, and let it remain in a cool place until perfectly set; then turn it out on a dish, fiU the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with sheriy and sweetened with pounded sugar : pile this cream high in the centre, and serve. The jelly shovdd be made of rather a dark colour, to contrast nicely with the cream. JELLY MOULDED WITH PBESH FRUIT, or MACEDOINE DE FRUITS. Ingredients.—Rather more than 1^ pint of jelly, a few nice strawberries, or red or white currants, or raspberries, or any fresh fruit that may be in season. Mode.—lla.ye ready the above proportion of jelly, which must be very clear and rather sweet, the raw fruit requiring an additional quantity of sugar. Select ripe, nice-looking fruit; pick ofi" the stalks, unless currants are used, when they are laid in the jelly as they come from the tree. Begin by putting a Uttle jelly at the bottom of the mould, which must harden ; then arrange the fruit round the sides of the mould, recollecting that it tcill be reversed wlun turned out; then pour in some more jelly to make the fruit adhere, and when that layer is set, put another row of fruit and jelly until the mould is full. If convenient, put it in ice399 Meringues. until required for table, then wring a cloth in boiUng water, wrap it round the mould for a minute, and turn the jelly carefuUy out. Peaches, apricots, plums, apples, &c., are better for being boiled in a little clear syrup before they are laid in the jelly; strawberries, raspberries, grapes, cherries, and currants ai-e put in raw. In winter, when fresh fruits are not obtainable, a very pretty jelly may be made with presei-ved fruits or brandy cherries ; these, in a bright and clear jelly, have a very pretty effect; of course, unless the jelly be very clear, the beauty of the dish wiU be spoiled. It may be garnished with the same fruit as is laid in the jeUy; for instance, an open jelly with strawberries might have, piled in the centre, a few of the same fi-uit prettily arranged, or a little whipped cream might be substituted for the fruit, TARTLETS. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any jam or marmalade that may be preferred. J/oc?e.—Roll out the paste to the thickness of about ^ inch ; butter some small round pattypans, line them with it, and cut off the superfluous paste close to the edge of the pan. Put a small piece of bread into each tartlet (this is to keep them in shape), and bake in a quick oven for about 10 minutes, or rather longer. When they are done, and are of a nice coloui", take the pieces of bread out carefully, and replace them by a spoonful of jam or marmalade. Dish them high on a white d'oyley, piled high in the centre, and serve. MERINGUES. Ingredients.—^ lb. of pounded sugar, the whites of 4 eggs. J/ocZe.—Wbisk the whites of the eggs to a sti£f froth, and with a wooden spoon, stir in quicMi/ the pounded sugar; and have some boards put in the oven thick enough to prevent the bottom of the meringues from acquiring too much colour. Cut some strips of paper about two inches wide ; place this paper on the board, and drop a tablespoonful at a time of the mixture on the paper, taking care to let all the meringues be the same size. In dropping it from the spoon, give the mixture the form of an egg, and keep the meringues about two inches apart from each other on the paper. Strew over them some sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for ^ hour. As soon as they begin to colour, remove them from the oven ; take each slip of paper by the two ends, and turn it gently on the table, and, with a small spoon, take out the soft part of each meringue. Spread some clean paper on the board, turn the meringues upside down, and put them into the oven to harden and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with]whipped cream, flavoured with liqueur or vanilla, and sweeten with pounded sugar. Join two of the meringues together, and pile them high in the dish. To vary their appearance, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be strewn over them before the sugar is sprinkled over ; and they may be garnished with any bright-coloured preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making-400 r Philosopliy of Housekeeping. this swoot dish; as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former molts, and the mixture runs on the paper, instead of keeping its egg-shape. The sweeter the meringues are made, tho crisper they will be; but if there is noc sufficient sugar mixed with them, they will most likely be tough. 'J'hey are sometimes coloured with cochineal ; and, if kept well covered in a dry place, will remain good for a month. BOILED CUSTARDS. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf-sugar, 3 laurel-leaves, or the rind of A lemon, or a few drops of essence of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and whichever of the above flavourings may be preferred (the lemon-rind flavours custards most deliciously), and let the milk steep by the side of the fire until it is well flavoured. Bring it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a basin ; whisk the eggs well, and, when the mUk has cooled a little, stir in the eggs, and strain this mixture into a jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire; keep stirring the custard one way until it thickens ; but on no account allow it to reach the boiling-point, as it will instantly curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off" the lire, stir in the brandy, and, when this is well mixed with the custard, pour it into glasses, which should be rather more than three-parts full; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the dish is ready for table. To make custards look and eat better, ducks' eggs should be used, when obtainable; they add very much to the flavour and richness, and so many are not required as of the ordinary eggs, 4 ducks' eggs to the pint of milk making a delicious custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream should be substituted for the milk, and double the quantity of eggs used, to those mentioned, omitting the whites. KICE CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, 1 quart of milk, 6oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring ■of vanilla, lemon-peel, or bitter almonds, egg and bread-crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Vvit the rice, milk, and sugar into a saucepan, and let the former gradually swell over a gentle fire until all the milk is dried up ; and just before the rice is done, stir in a few drops of essence of any of the above flavourings. Let the rice get cold ; then form it into small round balls, dip them into yolk of egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard for about 10 minutes, turning them about, that they may get equally browned. Drain the greasy moisture from them, by placing them on a cloth in front of the fire for a minute or two ; pile them on a white d'oyley, and send tliem quickly to table. A small piece of jam is sometimes introduced into the middle of each croquette, which adds very much to the flavour of this favourite dish.401 Jelly of Two Colours. STEWED PEARS. Ingredient's.—8 large pears, 5 oz. of loaf-sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, ^ pint of water, ^ pint of port wine, a few drops of prepared cochineal. Mode.—Pare the pears, halve them, remove the cores, and leave the stalks on ; put them into a lined saucepan with the above ingredients, and let them simmer very gently until tender, which will be from 3 to 4 hours, according to the quality of the pears. They should be watched, and, when done, carefully lifted out on to a glass dish without breaking them. Boil up the syrup quickly for 2 or 3 minutes ; allow it to cool a little, pour it over the pears, and let them get perfectly cold. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of jprepared cochineal may be added, which rather enhances the beauty of this dish. The fi-uit must not be boiled fast, but only simmered, and watched that it be not too much done. NEAPOLITAN CAKES. Ingredients.—The weight of 4 eggs in pomided loaf-sugar, the weight of 7 in flour, a little grated lemon-rind, or essence of almonds, or orange-flower water. Mode.—Break the 7 eggs, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, the grated lemon-rind, or any other flavouring to taste; beat them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, con- tinuing to beat the mixtui-e for \ hour; butter a mould, pour in the cake, and bake it from 1.^ to 1^ hour. This is a very nice cake for dessert, and may be iced for a supper-table, or cut into slices and spread with jam, which converts it into sandwiches. CHRISTMAS PIiUM-PUDDIlSrG. Ingredients.—1| lb. raisins, l lb. currants, 1 lb. mixed peel, ^ lb. bread- crumbs, -I lb. suet, 8 eggs, 1 wineglassful brandy. Mode.—^toue and cut the raisins in halves, but do not chop them : wash pick, and dry the currants, and mince the suet finely; cut the candid peel into thin slices, and grate down the bread into fine crumbs. When all these dry ingre- dients are prepared, mix them well together; then moisten the mixture with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the brandy ; stir well, that everything may be thoroughly blended, and press the pudding into a buttered mould ; tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, and boil for 5 or 6 hours. JELLY OF TWO COLOURS. Ingredients.—li pint of calf *s-feet jelly, a few drops of prepai-ed cochineal. Mode.-Unke l.i pint of jelly, or, if wished more economical, of clarified syrup and gelatine, flavouring it in any way that may be preferred. Colour one-half of the jelly with a few drops of cochineal. Well wet a mould; pour402 Philosophy of Housekeeping. in the red jelly, and let this set; when firm, pour on the same quantity of pale jelly, and let tliis set. Continue this, letting each colour set before pouring in another. Blancmange jelly may be moulded together. The layers should be about an inch in depth, and each layer should be perfectly hardened before another is added. Half a mould of blancmange and half a mould of jelly are frequently served in the same manner. A few pretty dishes may be made in this way, of jellies or blancmanges left from the preceding day, by melting them separately in a jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and then moulding them. TBIPLE. Ingredients.—| lb. macaroons, J lb. ratafias, 26 Savoy biscuits, ^ pot of raspberry jam, 1 pint custard, whites of eggs, 1^ oz. pounded sugar, ^ pint of sherry, 6 sponge-cakes, 1 oz. almonds. 3Iode.—Spread the raspberry jam on 13 of the biscuits and press the other 13 closely over them ; line a large round glass dish with them, and pour over the sherry; let them soak 2 hours; arrange, the ratafias and macaroons over them, and the sponge-cakes, thickly stuck with blanched and sliced almonds on the top; pour the custard over, and add a whip made of the whites of the eggs and the sugar, and serve cold. COMPOTE OF OBANGES. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, 6 oranges. Mode.—Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into small pieces without breaking the thin skin with which they are surrounded. Make the syrup, adding the rind of the orange cut into thin narrow strips. When the syrup has been well skimmed, and is quit« clear, put in the pieces of orange, and simmer them for 5 minutes. Take them out care- fully with a spoon without breaking them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly until thick; let it cool a httle, pour it over the oranges, and, when cold, they vnll be ready for table. LEMON" JELIiT. Ingredients.—6 lemons, f lb. lump-sugar, 1 pint of water, IJ oz. of isinglass, I pint of sherry. Mode.—Peel 3 of the lemons, pour h pint of boiling water on the rind, and let it infuse for h hour ; put the sugar, isinglass, and i pint of water into a lined saucepan, and boil those ingredients for 20 minutes; then put in the strained emon-juice, the strained infusion of rind, and bring the whole to tbe pohit of boiling ; skim well, add the wine, and run the jelly through a bag; pour it into n mould that has been wetted or soaked in water; put it in ice, if convenient, where let it remain until required for table. Previously to adding the lemon- juice to the 9ther ingredients, ascertain that it is very nicely strained, a.% if this is403 Ices. not properly attended to, it is liable to make the jelly thick and muddy. As this jelly is very pale, and almost colourless, it answers very well for moulding with a jelly of any bright hue ; for instance, half a jelly bright red, and the other half made of the above, would have a very good effect. Lemon jelly may also be made with calf s-feet stock, allowing the juice of 3 lemons to every pint of stock. CHARLOTTE-AUX-POMMES. Ingredients.—A few slices of rather stale bread ^ inch thick, clarified butter,, apple marmalade, with about 2 dozen apples, g glass of sherry. 3fode.—Cut a slice of bread the same shape as the bottom of a plain round mould, which has been well buttered, and a few strips the height of the mould and about Ig inch wide; dip the bread in clarified butter (or spread it with cold butter, if not wanted quite so rich); place the round piece at the bottom of the mould, and set the narrow strips up the sides of it, ovei'lapping each other a little, that no juice from the apples may escape, and that they may hold firmly to the mould. Brush the interior over wilh white of egg (this will assist to make the case firmer); fill it with apple marmalade, with the addition of a little sherry, and cover all with a round piece of bread, also brushed over with egg, the same as the bottom ; slightly press the bread down, to make it adhere to the other pieces ; put a plate on the top, and bake the clmrlotte in a brisk oven, of a light colour. Turn it out on the dish, strew sifted sugar over the top, and pour round it a little melted apricot jam. OPEN" TART. Ingredients,—Trimmings of puff-paste, any kind of jam. Mode.—Bxxiiev a tart-pan of the shape shown in the Plate, roll out the paste to the thickness of | an inch, and line the pan with it; prick a few holes at the bottom with a fork, and bake the tart in a brisk oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Let the paste cool a little ; then fill it with preserve, place a few stars or leaves on it, which have been previously cut out of the paste and baked, and the tart is ready for table. By making it in this manner, both the flavour and colons of the jam are preserved, which would otherwise be lost, were it baked in the oven on the paste; and, besides, so much jam is not required. ICES. Ingredients.—To every pint of fruit-juice allow 1 pint of cream; sugar ta taste. Mode- Let the fruit be well ripened ; pick it off the stalks, and put it into a large earthen pan. Stir it about with a wooden spoon, breaking it until it is well mashed ; then, with the back of the spoon, rub it through a hair sieve. Sweeten it nicely with pounded sugar; whip the cream for a few minutes, add it to the fruit, and whisk the whole again for another .5 minutes. Put the mixture into404 Philosophy of Housekeeping. the freozing-pot, and freeze. Raspberry, strawberry, currant, and all fruit ice- creams are niado in the same manner. A little pounded sugar sprinkled over th» fruit before it is mashed assists to extract the juice. In winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable, a little jam may bo substituted for it; it should be melted and worked through a sieve, before being added to the whipped cream ; and if the colour should not be good, a little prepared cochineal may be put in to improve its appearance. ICED PUDDINa. Ingredients.—40 chestnuts, 1 lb, sugar, flavouring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino, 1 oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, h pint of whipped cream, 3 eggs. Mode.—Blanch the chestnuts in boiling water, remove the husks, and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smo6th, adding a few spoonfuls of syrup. Tlien rub them through a fine sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of synip made from 1 lb. of sugar, clarified and flavoured with vanilla, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, stirring it ict7/(o"i ceasing, and just as it begins to boil, take it off and pass it through a tammy. When it is cold, put it into a freezing-pot, adding the Maraschino, and make the mixture set: then add the sliced citron, the currants, and stoned raisins (these two latter should be soaked the day previously in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla) ; to the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a pineapple-shaped mould: close the lid, place it again in the freeziug-pan, covered over with pounded ice and salt- petre, and let it remain until required for table ; then turn the pudding out, and serve. DISHES OF FRUIT. These dishes are arranged with much taste. Foliage of various kinds are mixed with the fruits, and among these fern-leaves and grasses are placed.HER Hand has lost its cunning—the firm, true hand that wrote these fonmilcE, and penned the information contained in this little book. Cold in the silent tomb lie the once nimble, useful fingers,—now nerveless, unable for anything, and ne'er to do work more in this world ! Exquisite palate, unerring judgment, sound common sense, refined tastes,—all these had the dear Lady who has gone ere her youth had scarcely come. But four times seven years were all she passed in this world; and since the day she became wedded wife—now nearly nine years past—her greatest, chiefest aims were to provide for the comfort and pleasure of those she loved and had around her, and to employ her best faculties for the use of her sisters, Englishwomen generally. Her surpassing affection and devotion led her to find her happiness in aiding, with all her heart and soul, the Husband whom she richly blessed and honoured with her abounding love. Her Works speak for themselves; and, although taken from this world in the very height of health and strength, and in the early days of womanhood, she felt that satisfaction—so great to all who strive with good intent and warm will—of knowing herself regarded with respect and gratitude, Her labours are ended here; in a purer atmosphere she dwells; and may be, ui the land beyond the skies, she has nobler work to accomplish. Her plans for the future cannot be wholly carried out : her Husband knew them all, and will diligently devote himself to their execution, as far as may be. The remembrance of her wishes,— always for the private and public welfare,—and the companionship of her two little boys, — too young to know the virtues of their good Mother,—this memory, this presence, will nerve the Father, left alone, to continue to do his duty : in which he -wall follow the example of his Wife, for her duty no woman has ever better accom- plished than the latam H if t I-i * J I 1^