86 THE UPPER LIMB. fibres from the entire breadth of the posterior surface of the humerus. It also springs from the posterior surface of the internal intermuscular septum, and from the lower part of the corresponding surface of the external inter- muscular septum. The inner head of the triceps, therefore, has very much the same origin from the back of the bone that the brachialis anticus has from the front of the bone. The dissector should now study the conunon tendon of insertion of the triceps. The long and the outer heads end in a broad, flat tendon, which is inserted into the back part of the upper surface of the olecranon process, and at the same time gives off, on the outer side, a strong expansion to the fascia of the forearm as it covers the anconeus muscle. The short fleshy fibres of the inner head are, for the most part, inserted into the deep surface of the common tendon, but a considerable number find direct attachment to the olecranon, whilst a few of the deepest fibres are inserted into the loose posterior part of the capsule of the elbow-joint. These latter fibres have been described as a separate muscle under the name of subanconeus} Dissection.—In order that the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery may be fully exposed, the external head of the triceps must be divided. Thrust the handle of a knife along the musculo-spiral groove, and under the muscle. This will give the direction in which the outer head of the triceps should be severed. Beyond cleaning the nerve and its branches, and the superior profunda artery, as they lie in the groove, no further dissection is necessary. The Musculo-spiral Nerve is the direct continuation of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus after it has furnished ^ The common tendon is spread out on the superficial surface of the outer head, but it is chiefly placed upon the deep surface of the long head, and it is into this latter portion of it that the fibres of the internal head are inserted. The student can readily satisfy himself on this point by slitting the muscle in a downward direction, in the line between the outer and long heads.