PEL VIS. 561 the dissection must be made. Seeing that the first part of the rectum hes to the left of the mesial plane it is best to make the dissection on the right side. Dissection from above.—This dissection is undertaken with the view of exposing the pelvic aspect of the fascia. Strip the peritoneum from the right side of the pelvic wall by means of the fingers. It should also be partially removed from the same side of the bladder. On care- fully scraping away the loose fatty extra-peritoneal tissue with the handle of the knife, or better still, with the finger nails, the pelvic fascia will be brought into view. To expose it in front, the bladder must be forcibly dragged backwards from the pubic bones, and the inter- vening areolar tissue taken away. At this point the pelvic fascia will not be encountered until we have descended to within half-an-inch or so from the lower end of the symphysis. Here it is so thick that it is beyond injury so long as we work with the fingers, or the handle of the knife, but laterally it is thin, and great care must be taken. The extra- peritoneal tissue which surrounds the internal iliac vessels must also be removed, and the relation of their parietal branches to the fascia made out. Dissection from below.—The object of this dissection is to expose the perineal surface of the fascia. The pelvis must be placed so that the outlet looks upwards. The fat having previously been removed from the ischio-rectal fossa, divide the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves if they are still present, and then raise the levator ani muscle from the side of the rectum. To do this the muscle must be cut transversely about an inch above the anus. At first the levator ani will be observed to rest upon the side of the gut, separated from it, however, by a well-marked layer of fascia (the rectal layer of pelvic fascia), but, as the dissector proceeds with the dissection, the muscle will be found higher up to be in close contact with the under surface of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Lastly, he will come to the line of origin of the muscle from the pelvic fascia, i.e.^ the line along which the visceral layer leaves the parietal layer—and here he must stop. In the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 353), the parietal pelvic fascia was exposed and recognised as forming the outer wall of the space. The entire inner surface of the parietal portion, both in its pelvic and perineal parts, is, therefore, now displayed, and, if the levator ani be drawn outwards and the pelvis held up to the light, the visceral pelvic fascia will be seen passing inwards from the parietal part of the aponeurosis to the viscera. But it is also necessary to obtain a view of the outer aspect of the parietal pelvic fascia, and, for this purpose, the following dissection must be made. VOL. I.—36