122 THE UPPER LIMB. to the integument; and if the dissector exercises sufficient patience and care in the dissection, he will notice attached to the nerve twigs numerous minute, oval, seedlike bodies. These are the Fad?nan bodies. At the extremity of the fingers the digital nerves divide into two terminal branches. Of these, one ramifies in the pulp, whilst the other inclines backwards to reach the bed upon which the nail rests. The Ulnar Nerve enters the palm by passing ifi front of the annular ligament. It lies secure from the effects of pressure under the shelter of the pisiform bone, and upon the inner side of the ulnar artery. At this level it divides into two terminal branches—a superficial and a deep. The deep brcmch of the ulnar is continued downwards upon the annular ligament, and associates itself with the profunda branch of the ulnar artery. It leaves the present dissection by passing backwards between the abductor and the flexor brevis muscles of the little finger. The superficial branch of the ulnar nerve runs downwards under cover of the palmaris brevis, to which it gives a branch of supply, and then divides into two digital branches. One of these proceeds obliquely over the short muscles of the little finger to gain the inner side of that digit; the other descends to the cleft between the little and ring fingers, and divides into the collateral branches for the adjacent sides of these digits. A branch of communication passes from the second digital branch of the ulnar nerve to the adjoining digital branch of the median nerve. The digital branches of the ulnar nerve are distributed on the sides of the fingers in precisely the same manner as those derived from the median. Anterior Annular Ligament.—This is a thick, dense, fibrous band, which stretches across the front of the carpal arch, so as to convert it into an osteo-fibrous tunnel for the passage of the flexor tendons into the palm. On each side it is attached to the two piers of the carpal arch, viz., on the outer side to the tubercle of the scaphoid and the ridge of