A R TIC ULA TIONS. 157 by the lower end of the radius, but to the inner side of this the triangular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar joint likewise enters into its construction. The lower surface of the radius is divided by a low ridge into an outer triangular and an inner quadrilateral facet. The outer facet, in the ordinary position of the hand, is in contact with the greater extent of the superior articular surface of the scaphoid. The inner facet of the radius, with the triangular fibro- cartilage, forms a much larger surface, triangular in out- line, which is opposed to the superior articular surface of the semilunar. When the hand is placed in line with the forearm no part of the upper articular surface is allotted to the cuneiform; its small articular facet rests against the inner part of the capsule of the joint. When the hand is moved inwards adducted), however, the cuneiform bone travels outwards, and its articular surface comes into contact with the under surface of the triangular fibro- cartilage. The semilunar bone at the same time crosses the bounding ridge on the lower surface of the radius, and encroaches on the territory of the scaphoid, whilst a con- siderable part of the scaphoid surface leaves the radius, and comes into contact with the outer part of the capsule. Synovial Membrane.—The synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint lines the deep surfaces of the ligaments forming the capsule, and between the carpal bones it covers the upper surfaces of the two interosseous hgaments which complete the carpal surface. Sometimes the triangular fibro-cartilage is imperfect, and in these cases the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint becomes continuous with the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. Movements at the Radio-carpal Joint.—The hand can be moved in four directions at the radio-carpal joint. Thus we have—{a) forward movement, or flexion; {b) backward movement, or extension; {c) in- ward movement, or addtiction; {d) outward movement, or abduction. In estimating the extent of these movements in the living person the student is apt to be misled by the increase of range which is con-