243 FRONT OF THE THIGH. the gluteus medius. It extends downwards with a slight inclination backwards, and is inserted into the ilio-tibial band of fascia lata at its angle of splitting. The External Circumflex Artery is the largest branch which proceeds from the profunda femoris. It arises near the origin of the latter from the femoral artery, and runs outwards between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve and under cover of the sartorius and rectus femoris muscles. It ends by dividing into ascending, transverse, and descend- ing branches. The ascending branch reaches the dorsum ilii by passing under cover of the tensor fasciae femoris. Its terminal twigs anastomose with the gluteal artery. The transverse branch is of small size and passes to the deep surface of the vastus externus. It reaches the back of the thigh, and inosculates with the internal circumflex and the first perforating arteries. The descejiding branch gives twigs to the crureus and rectus femoris and one long branch, which may be traced down- wards amid the fibres of the vastus externus to the knee, where it anastomoses with the superior external articular artery. The Intermuscular Septa.—Divide the ilio-tibial bafid of fascia lata below the point at which it spHts to enclose the tensor fascise femoris. This is done so as to obtain a better view of the vastus externus, and in order to demonstrate satisfactorily the external intermuscular septum. Take hold of the lower portion of the ilio-tibial band, and draw it forcibly outwards ; at the same time push inwards the vastus externus muscle, and a strong fibrous septum will be seen passing inwards from the fascia lata towards the linea aspera. This is the external intermuscular septum of the thigh, a partition interposed between the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps. Follow it upwards and down- wards with the finger. The fibres of the vastus externus are seen arising from it, but little difficulty will be experienced in making out its attachment to the linea aspera of the