A R TIC ULA TIONS. 327 thicker around its circumference than the internal cartilage. It forms the segment of a smaller circle, and its horns being fixed to the tibia close together, a very nearly complete circle is formed. The anterior fibrous horn is attached, immediately in front of the tibial spine, to the outer side of and partly under cover of the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament. The posterior horn is fixed to the summit of the tibial spine in the interval between the two tubercles. It likewise gives a strong slip to the posterior crucial liga- ment. The external lateral ligament is not in contact with the external semilunar cartilage. It is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, and the impress of the tendon is left on the cartilage in the form of a faint smooth groove on its outer and posterior border. Behind, its circumfer- ence is attached to the posterior ligament. The internal semilu?iar cartilage is semicircular in form, and forms the segment of a much larger circle than the external cartilage. Its anterior fibrous horn is fixed to the fore part of the intermediate rough area of the tibia in front of the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament; its posterior horn is attached to the back part of the inter- mediate rough area of the tibia, behind the tibial spine, and in front of the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. The circumference of this cartilage is closely connected with the deep surface of the internal lateral ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a fibrous band which stretches across from the fore part of one semilunar carti- lage to the corresponding part of the other, constituting thereby a bond of union between them. Dissection.—The condyles of the femur should now be detached by dividing the external lateral ligament and the crucial ligaments close to their femoral attachments. Attachment of Parts to Upper Surface of the Tibia.—The ligamentous structures are attached to the intermediate area on the upper surface of the tibia in the following order from before backwards :—(i) The anterior horn of the internal