ABDOMINAL WALL. 421 The Deep Circumflex Iliac (arteria circumflexa ilii pro- funda) springs from the outer side of the external ihac artery, about the same level as the deep epigastric, and runs outwards behind Poupart's ligament to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. From this point onwards it takes the crest of the ilium as its guide, and ends by anastomosing with the ilio-lumbar artery. At first it is placed in the extra-peritoneal fat, and consequently it lies between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum. Its course behind Poupart's ligament is indicated by a whitish line, which marks the union of the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca; and if the former fascia be now divided along this line, the deep circumflex iliac will be exposed. At the crest of the ilium the vessel pierces the fascia transversalis, and lies between this and the transversalis muscle; and lastly, about the middle point of the iliac crest it pierces the transversalis muscle, and its terminal twigs ramify between it and the internal oblique. In this manner, then, the artery gradually approaches the surface as we trace it from its origin to its termination, and its relations may be expressed thus :— 1. Between fascia transversalis and peritoneum. 2. Between fascia transversalis and transversalis muscle. 3. Between transversalis muscle and internal oblique muscle. The dissector has already seen the ascending branch ysiMiokx it sends upwards between the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles. The Superior Epigastric and Musculo-phrenic Arteries are the two terminal branches of the internal mammary. The superior epigastric will be found behind the rectus muscle and w^ithin the upper part of its sheath. It gives twigs to the rectus, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric. The 7Jiusculophrenic can only be seen by reflecting the transversalis from the ribs. It will be found at the level of the eighth rib. From this it proceeds downwards and back- wards, along the attachment of the diaphragm, to the last