205 BACK OF THE THIGH. is inserted into the groove on the back of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, under cover of the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Three additional attachments, however, require to be noted. These are effected by aponeurotic extensions from the tendon—(i) to the back of the knee-joint, forming a considerable part of the posterior ligament; (2) to the surface of the popliteus muscle, which is covered by the expansion; and (3) to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Great Sciatic Nerve commences at the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and terminates a little below the middle of the thigh by dividing into the internal and external popliteal nerves. Its relations in the gluteal region have already been studied. In the thigh it lies on the posterior surface of the adductor magnus muscle, and is covered by the long head of the biceps. It gives branches to both heads of the biceps, to the semitendi- nosus, to the semimembranosus, and to the adductor magnus; the branches to the two last-named muscles arise by a common trunk. In a few cases it may be observed to give off a long articular twig, which enters the popliteal space and takes the place of the superior external articular nerve which, as a rule, comes from the external popliteal nerve. Perforating Arteries.—Four perforating arteries, branches of the profunda femoris, will be found emerging from the surface of the adductor magnus muscle close to the linea aspera of the femur. They are called first, second, third, and fourth, according to the level at which they appear from above downwards. The fourth is the terminal branch of the profunda artery of the thigh, and it makes its appearance about an inch above the opening in the adductor magnus muscle through which the popliteal artery enters the popliteal space. The perforating arteries and their branches must be thoroughly cleaned, together with the apertures in the adductor magnus through which they pass. It will then