ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 513 the pylorus, and, at the point where the stomach gives place to the duodenum, they are aggregated into a circular band, called \}!\& pyloric sphincter. The internal layer consists of oblique fibres, and only gives a partial covering to the stomach. They are continuous with the circular fibres of the gullet, and are best seen on the fundus of the stomach to the left of the oesophageal opening. From this they spread out upon both surfaces of the viscus, and embrace the oesophageal opening. The submucous coat is composed of loose areolar tissue. It intervenes between the muscular and mucous tunics, and binds the one to the other. The nmcous coat must be studied from the inside of .the stomach. Open up the viscus by running the scissors along the lesser curvature. The duodenum may be laid open at the same time. The gastric mucous membrane will now be seen to be thick, soft and pulpy. In the dissecting-room the student cannot obtain a proper idea of its natural colour. In infancy it is rosy red, but as life advances it gradually becomes paler, and in old age it always presents a brownish hue from the presence of pigment. When the mucous membrane is cleansed and examined with a pocket lens, its surface is observed to present a pitted appearance. Innumerable polygonal depressions are brought into view, and these are observed to be larger and better marked in every way near the pylorus than in the vicinity of the fundus. At the bottom of these pits are the mouths of the minute tubular glands of the gastric mucous membrane. When the stomach is empty, the mucous membrane is thrown into longitudinal folds or rugae, but these disappear when the organ is distended. During life the mucous membrane of the stomach is thickest at the cardiac end, but after death it is always thinned at this point by post-mortem digestion. At the pylorus the mucous membrane is raised into a remarkable circular fold, called the pyloric valve (Fig. 107). This fold contains between its two layers the VOL. I.—33