THE LOWER LIMB. 17 over the gluteus maximus, but also from the area in front of this. In the latter situation a dense opaque pearly white aponeurosis is by this means exposed. This covers the anterior part of the gluteus medius, and is firmly attached above to the crest of the ilium. It stands in marked con- trast with the deep fascia over the gluteus maximus which is thin and transparent. Subsequent dissection will show that the dense fascia over the anterior part of the gluteus medius when it reaches the anterior border of the gluteus maximus, splits into two lamellae which enclose that muscle between them. Dissection.—Now proceed to clean the gluteus maximus muscle. If it is the right limb, begin at the anterior or upper margin of the muscle ; but if it is the left, commence the dissection at the posterior or lower border. In undertaking this dissection, the dissector must keep clearly before him the rules which have already been laid down regarding the cleaning of a muscle :—(i) render the fibres as tense as possible by rotating the limb inwai'ds; (2) remove the fascia in one continuous layer; (3) always cut in the direction of the muscular fibres : (4) define very carefully the borders of the muscle. The gluteus maximus is a difficult muscle to clean, the fasciculi are so exceedingly coarse. To do it well, it is not sufficient to remove the fascia which covers the muscle, but it is necessary at the same time to follow, for a short distance, the septa which penetrate between the fasciculi, and to remove them also. Do not remove the thick opaque fascia which covers the insertion of the muscle. The dissector of the left limb, on reaching the anterior margin of the muscle, will observe that the fascia which he holds in his hand is continuous with the strong aponeurosis which covers the gluteus medius ; and further, if he now frees the anterior border of the muscle from subjacent parts, he will notice that the layer of fascia upon which the gluteus maximus rests is also continuous with the same aponeurosis. In other words, he will in this manner be able to satisfy himself that the strong fascia which covers the anterior part of the gluteus medius splits into two layers to enclose the gluteus maximus. The small sciatic nerve lies in very close relation to the deep surface of the muscle, and is apt to be injured in the subsequent steps of the dissection, unless it is secured at once by everting the lower border of the muscle. The Gluteus Maximus arises from a narrow, rough area on the dorsum ilii, which is included between the superior