THE UPPER LIMB. 92 the glenoid ligament. Externally it is fixed to the outer part of the anatomical neck of the humerus. The width of the capsule is not uniform throughout. It will be noticed to expand as it passes over the enclosed head of the humerus, and to contract as it reaches its scapular and humeral attachments. The great laxity of the capsule of the shoulder-joint will now be apparent. When the muscles are removed, and air is admitted into the joint, the bony surfaces fall away from each other—the head of the humerus sinking downwards, when the part is held by the scapula, to the extent of an inch. The capsule of the shoulder-joint is not complete upon all aspects. Its continuity is interrupted by two, and some- times three, apertures. The largest of these is an opening of some size, which is placed upon its inner or anterior aspect, near the root of the coracoid process. Through this aperture an extensive protrusion of the synovial mem- brane takes place in the form of a synovial bursa, which, from its position under the upper part of the subscapularis muscle, receives the name of the bursa subscapularis. It is important to note the position and character of this opening, seeing that in some cases the head of the bone may be driven through it in dislocation of the joint. The second aperture is smaller and more distinctly defined. It is placed between the two tuberosities of the humerus, at the upper part of the bicipital groove, and it is through this that the long tendinous head of the biceps gains admission to the interior of the capsule. The synovial membrane also protrudes from this opening, and lines the bicipital groove as low as the insertion of the pectorahs major. It is not often that the third ope?iing will be seen. It is situated, when present, on the outer or posterior aspect of the capsule, and allows a pocket of synovial membrane to bulge out in the form of a bursa under the infraspinatus muscle. At certain points the capsule of the shoulder-joint is