13 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. It is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular surface at the root of its spine. It is entirely covered by the trapezius. The rhomboideus major arises from the upper four or five dorsal spines, and the corresponding part of the supraspinous ligament. Its fibres run obliquely downwards and outwards, and end in a tendinous cord, which receives insertion into the base of the scapula close to the inferior angle. From this point, up to the commencement of the spine, the tendinous cord is firmly bound to the base of the scapula by areolar tissue. The greater part of the rhom- boideus major is covered by the trapezius; only a small portion near the inferior angle of the scapula lies immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. The Levator Anguli Scapulae is an elongated muscle which arises by four more or less tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae, and passes downwards and backwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula from the superior angle to the spine. Dissection.—In cleaning the levator anguli scapulae muscle care must be taken of the nerves which pass to it from the cervical plexus, and also of the nerve to the rhomboids and the posterior scapular artery which lie under cover of it near the base of the scapula. The dissector of the head and neck has an interest in the levator anguli scapulae, and when it has been studied by both dissectors it should be divided midway between its origin and insertion, and the lower portion turned out- wards. The nerve to the rhomboids has already been secured in the interval between the rhomboideus minor and the levator anguli scapulae, and it has still further been exposed by the reflection of the latter muscle. It may now be displayed in its whole length, together with the posterior scapular artery, which it accompanies, by reflecting the rhomboid muscles. These should be detached from the ligamentum nuchae and the vertebral spines, and thrown outwards towards the base of the scapula. In doing this take care of the serratus posticus superior, a thin muscle which lies subjacent, and is apt to be injured. The Nerve to the Rhomboids is a long slender twig which springs from the fifth cervical nerve, usually in common