PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 41 be seen at the present stage. It springs from the posterior aspect of the axillary, and at once proceeds backwards with the circumflex nerve close to the inner and under aspect of the head of the humerus, and in the interval between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. The small anterior cii'cu?nflex artery {a. circumflexa humeri anterior) takes origin from the outer aspect of the axillary, and runs outwards in front of the surgical neck of the humerus, under cover of the coraco-brachiahs and short head of the biceps. Reaching the bicipital groove it divides into two branches. Of these one is directed upwards with the long head of the biceps to the shoulder-joint; the other continues onwards to the under surface of the deltoid, and finally anastomoses with some of the terminal twigs of the posterior circumflex artery. Axillary Vein.—This venous trunk is the continuation upwards of the basilic vein of the upper arm. Beginning at the lower border of the teres major, it becomes the subclavian vein at the outer margin of the first rib. At the lower margin of the subscapularis it receives the two ven(E comites of the brachial- artery, and above the level of the pectorahs minor it is joined by the cephalic vein. Its other tributaries correspond to the branches of the axillary artery. The Subclavius Muscle may now be cleaned and its attachments defined. It is a small muscle, placed below the clavicle, and it is enclosed in a stout sheath derived from the costo-coracoid membrane. It takes origin by a short rounded tendon, from the upper surface of the first costal arch at the junction of the rib with its cartilage, and the small fleshy belly is inserted into the shallow groove on the under surface of the clavicle. Its nerve of supply comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves and has been previously noticed, p. 34. Dissection.—The middle third of the clavicle should now be removed, and the subclavius muscle reflected, in order that a connected view of