POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 287 tendon. They do not blend with each other. They are usually separated by a furrow, at the bottom of which the flattened tendon, to which the fasciculi of both heads are attached, may be seen. The internal head is the more bulky of the two, and it extends lower down than the external head. The flattened tendon in which they ter- minate narrows slightly as it descends, and a short distance below the middle of the leg it blends with the stouter tendon of the soleus to form the tendo Achillis. Dissection.—The aponeurotic tendon of the gastrocnemius may be divided in the middle of the leg, and the two heads of origin thrown upwards towards the back of the femur. The sural arteries from the popliteal trunk, and the branches of supply from the internal popliteal nerve which enter the heads of the gastrocnemius, can thus be pre- served. On raising the upper portion of the inner head, a bursa which intervenes between it and the condyle of the femur will be brought into view. On opening this with the knife it will, in all probability, be found to communicate with the interior of the knee-joint. The smooth and tendinous opposed surfaces of the gastrocnemius and the soleus, and the narrow tendon of the plantaris which passes downwards and inwards between them, are displayed. Plantaris.—The small fleshy belly of the plantaris is not more than three or four inches long. It lies along the inner side, and partly under cover of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and it arises from the posterior surface of the femur immediately above its external condyle. It ends in a slender tendon which is remarkable for its great length. This proceeds downwards and inwards between the gastroc- nemius and soleus, and then runs along the inner side of the tendo Achillis to gain insertion into the posterior aspect of the os calcis. It is frequently closely connected with the tendo Achillis, and sometimes becomes blended with it or with the fascia of the leg before it reaches the OS calcis. The plantaris is supplied by a branch from the internal popliteal nerve. Dissection.—The plantaris may now be reflected.