ABDOMEN. 6io cally, it is important, because in some cases it is large enough to entangle the point of a small catheter or bougie. The dissector should now pass bristles along the common ejaculatory ducts. They will be observed to run downwards between the middle and lateral lobes of the prostate. Finally, entering the wall of the sinus pocularis, they open by slit-like apertures, just within the margin of its orifice. Owing to the presence of the verumontanum on the floor of the canal, and the prostatic sinus upon each side of it, a transverse section of the prostatic portion of the urethra presents a crescentic figure—the convexity of the crescent being directed forwards and the concavity backwards. As old age approaches, the prostate is very liable to become enlarged, and the most important result of this is the effect which it exerts upon the urethra. When the enlargement is uniform, the prostatic portion of the canal is simply elongated ; when, however, the enlargement is con- fined to one lobe or part of a lobe, it impinges upon the urethra, and produces an alteration in its direction, and a consequent difficulty in micturition. When the middle lobe alone is increased in size, it projects forwards into the bladder so as to close the commencement of the canal. The Membranous Portion of the Urethra.—This is the narroivest and the shortest division of the urethra. It extends from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the penis, and describes a gentle curve from above, downwards and forwards, behind the lower border of the symphysis pubis, from which it is distant about one inch. Its length is fully three-quarters of an inch, and its concavity is directed forwards and upwards, and its convexity backwards and downwards. Throughout its entire extent it is enveloped by the fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle, whilst towards its termination Cowper's glands are placed behind it—one on each side. The relation of the membranous part of the urethra to the triangular ligament and the parietal pelvic fascia is very important. As it emerges from the prostate, the parietal pelvic fascia (/>., the superior layer of the triangular liga-