232 THE LOWER LIMB. head of the bone there is a habihty for the vessel to sHp from under the fingers. It is much safer to compress it against the brim of the pelvis. Below the head of the femur, during the remainder of its course through Scarpa's triangle, the artery is not in direct relation to the bone. It crosses in front of the angular interval between the neck and shaft of the femur. Towards the apex of the space, however, it comes into relation with the inner side of the shaft of the femur, and this position it holds to its termination. In the present condition of the dissection it is only that part of the femoral artery which traverses Scarpa's triangle which comes under the notice of the dissector. The length of this part varies with the development of the sartorius muscle, and the degree of obliquity with which this crosses the front of the thigh. It measures from three to four inches in length, and is comparatively superficial throughout its entire course. i\t the apex of the triangle it disappears under cover of the sartorius and takes up a deeper position in the limb. In Scarpa's triangle the femoral artery is enveloped in its upper part by the femoral sheath, and is separated from the surface by the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, whilst below, it is crossed by the internal cutaneous nerve, which runs along the inner border of the sartorius muscle. Behind the vessel is the psoas, and then the pectineus muscle. It rests directly upon the psoas—the femoral sheath and the nerve to the pectineus, as it crosses inwards, alone intervening; but it is separated from the pectineus by an interval occupied by fatty areolar tissue, and here also the profunda artery crosses behind it, and the femoral vein is seen to have a position posterior to it. Upon the outer side of the femoral artery is the anterior crural nerve —but not in apposition with it, as a small portion of the psoas intervenes. The femoral vein changes its position with reference to the artery, as it is traced from above