GLUTEAL REGLON. 173 Cutaneous Nerves.—The superficial fascia forms a bed in which the cutaneous nerves ramify before they enter the skin. In this region the cutaneous nerves are very numer- ous, and they are derived from a great variety of sources. Some proceed from the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves, whilst others are branches of the anterior pri7nary divisions of the spinal nerves. From the posterior primary divisio?is there are usually six —three from the sacral nerves, and three from the lumbar nerves. The three sacral nerves reach the surface by pierc- ing the gluteus maximus muscle close to its origin from the sacrum and coccyx. They are usually of small size and pierce the muscle in a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx. The largest is found opposite the lowest piece of the sacrum, the highest about an inch above this, and the lowest about the same distance below it. Owing to the coarseness of the muscular fasciculi between which they appear, they are somewhat difficult to find. In looking for them, it is best to cut right down through both superficial and deep fasciae, so as to secure them as they emerge from the muscle. The three lumbar nerves are easily found. They cross the crest of the ilium at a point corresponding to the outer limit of the attachment of the erector spinae to the inno- . minate bone. They pass downwards and slightly forwards in the superficial fascia, and run in different planes, the larger trunks being placed deeper than the smaller branches. They communicate with one another and with the sacral nerves. A few twigs may be followed as far as the great trochanter. The cutaneous twigs which come from the anterior pri7n- ary divisions of the spinal nerves may be classified under three headings—(i) those which pass downwards over the crest of the ilium; (2) those which pass backwards over the insertion of the gluteus maximus into the fascia lata; (3) those which turn upwards around the lower margin of the gluteus maximus.