THE LOWER LIMB. 228 it descends for a short distance in a perpendicular direction. It then turns forward and bulges through the saphenous opening. Should it still continue to enlarge, it bends upwards over Poupart's ligament, and pushes its way outwards towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The protrusion is thus bent upon itself: if reduction is to be carried out successfully it must be made to retrace its steps. In other words, it must be drawn downwards, and then pushed gently back- wards and upwards. The position of the limb during this procedure must be attended to. When the thigh is fully extended and rotated outwards, all the fascial structures in the neighbourhood of the crural canal are rendered tight and tense. When the limb is flexed at the hip-joint and rotated inwards, on the other hand, the superior cornu of the falciform edge of the saphenous opening, and even Gimbernat's ligament, are relaxed. This, then, is the position in which the limb should be placed during the reduction of the hernia. As the hernia descends it carries before it the various layers which it meets in the form of coverings. First it pushes before it the perito- neum, and this forms the hei'iiial sac. The other coverings from within outwards are—(i) the septum crurale ; (2) the wall of the femoral sheath (if it does not burst through one of the apertures in this); (3) the cribriform fascia ; (4) and lastly, the superficial fascia and skin. The crural canal, as we have noted, is surrounded by very unyielding structures. Stricture in cases of femoral hernia is therefore a matter of very common occurrence. The sharp base of Gimbernat's ligament and the superior cornu of the falciform edge of the saphenous opening are especially apt to bring about this condition. The Abnormal Obturator Artery.—But our account of the surgical anatomy of femoral hernia would not be complete if we omitted to mention the relation which the obturator artery frequently bears to the crural ring. In two out of every five subjects the obturator artery on one or on both sides takes origin from the deep epigastric. In these cases it passes backwards to gain the obturator canal in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. According to the point at which it arises from the epigastric trunk, it presents different relations to the femoral ring. In the majority of cases it proceeds backwards in close contact with the external iliac vein and on the outer side of the femoral ring. In this position it is in no danger of being wounded in operations undertaken for the relief of a strictured femoral hernia. In about thirty-seven per cent., however, of the cases in which it exists, the artery is placed less favourably. In these, it either proceeds backwards across the septum crurale which closes the opening into the crural canal, or it arches over it and turns backwards on the inner side of the ring upon the deep aspect of the base of Gimbernat's ligament. In the latter situation it is