AR TICULA TIONS. 319 Dissection.—The external lateral ligament may be exposed by remov- ing the part of the capsule which is formed by the ilio-tibial band of fascia lata, and also the prolongation which this gives backwards over the ligament. By this proceeding the inferior external articular artery will be displayed as it extends forwards to the front of the joint. The External Lateral Ligament is rounded and cord-like. It stands well away from the joint, and is attached above to a tubercle on the outer tuberosity of the femur. Below, it is fixed to a depression on the head of the fibula in front of the styloid process. It is closely associated with the tendon of the biceps and the tendon of the popliteus. It splits the tendon of the biceps into two pieces, and extends vertically downwards to its fibular attachment between them. The tendon of the popliteus takes origin from the outer tuberosity of the femur below and in front of the femoral attachment of the external lateral ligament. As it proceeds backwards it is placed under cover of the ligament. An additional slip is sometimes described as the posterior part of the external lateral ligament. When present it is attached to the femur, under cover of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, in connection with the posterior ligament. Below, it is implanted into the styloid process of the fibula. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a long flat band, broader in the middle than at either extremity, which springs from the inner tuberosity of the femur below the adductor tubercle. As it descends it inclines slightly for- wards, and finally it gains attachment to the upper part of the shaft of the tibia below the internal tuberosity. The main part of the tendon of the semimembranosus extends forwards under cover of its posterior border to gain an insertion into the tuberosity of the tibia, whilst lower down the inferior internal articular vessels are carried forwards between it and the bone. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus, lie upon its superficial surface, but are separated from it by an intervening bursa. The Posterior Ligament stretches from the external to the internal lateral ligament. Above, it is fixed to the