489 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. muscular fibres. These are disposed in two layers, viz., an external stratum of longitudinal fibres, and an internal stratum of circular fibres. Of these the circular layer is the thicker and more distinct of the two. The external longitudinal fibres are spread out in the form of a very thin uniform layer all round the circumference of the gut. In that part of the wall opposite the mesenteric attachment they are more thickly disposed than elsewhere. The sub- mucous coat is composed of loose areolar tissue which binds the muscular to the mucous coat. It is more firmly con- nected with the latter. The mucous coat must be examined throughout the whole length of the jejunum and ileum. Dissection.—The student has noticed that externally no distinction can be drawn between the jejunum and ileum, with this one exception, viz., that as the tube descends it diminishes slightly in its calibre and in the thickness of its walls. It is necessary, therefore, that he should open it up along its whole length, with the view of determining what differences exist internally. Before doing this, about twelve inches of the upper part of the jejunum should be removed and inflated with air. It should then be hung up to dry in order that the folds of mucous membrane, called valvulee conniventes, may be studied in their con- tinuity. The best way to open the remainder of the intestine is to tie a ligature around the lower cut end of the ileum, and fill the gut as full as possible with water. The scissors can now be easily carried along the line of the mesenteric attachment, and the intestine slit open in its entire length. The intestine can be laid open with much greater ease if a piece of costal cartilage be impaled upon that blade of the scissors which is introduced into the gut. The Mucous Membrane of the Small Intestine.—The valvulce conniveittes are the most conspicuous objects on the inner wall of the small intestine. These are folds of the mucous membrane placed more or less transversely to the long axis of the gut. Note particularly that they are per7nanentfolds, and that no amount of stretching or dis- tension of the walls will cause their obliteration. On care- ful study of the dried specimen three main varieties of valvulse conniventes may be recognised. The great majority are in the form of crescentic folds, which extend for a vari-