631 PEL VIS. of three parts—viz., a fundus, a body, and a neck or cervix (Fig. 145). The fundus is the rounded upper end. The Fallopian tube enters the organ on each side at its upper angle, and a line drawn transversely between these is arbitrarily fixed upon as the limit between the fundus and the body of the uterus. It is completely covered by peritoneum. The body diminishes in breadth as it proceeds downwards towards the neck. In front and behind, it is smooth and convex, the convexity of the posterior surface, however, being much more marked, especially in its upper part, than that of the anterior surface. Upon each side it is joined immediately below the entrance of the Fallopian tube; in front, by the round ligament; and behind, by the ligament of the ovary (Fig. 149). Inferiorly, the body of the uterus is marked off from the neck by a slight constriction, which is very apparent in the infant, but which becomes less distinct as puberty approaches, and usually disappears altogether after parturition. This constriction is called the isthmus. The fieck or cervix, about an inch in length, is narrower than the body, and more cylindrical in form. It projects into the upper end of the vagina, the walls of which are attached to the uterus around it. To obtain a satisfactory view of the cervix uteri, it is necessary to slit up the vagina along its lateral aspect and to remove the stuffing. The posterior wall of the vagina will then be seen to ascend to a higher level upon the cervix than the anterior wall; or, in other words, the anterior wall of the vagina will be observed to be shorter than the posterior wall (Fig. 147). On the lower extremity of the cervix, which is full, rounded and knob-like, there is an aperture called the os uteri externum. In the virgin this opening is small and circular, but in females that have borne children it is usually transverse and somewhat irregular in outline. It is bounded by two thick rounded lips. Comparing these it will be noticed that the anterior