THE UPPER LIMB. 74 part. But, in addition, two muscles of the forearm will be observed extending upwards into the arm, to seek origin from the external supracondyloid ridge: they are the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior. They are closely applied to the outer side of the brachialis anticus. The brachial artery, with its venae comites, extends through the region in relation to the inner margin of the biceps, and all the terminal branches of the cords of the brachial plexus, with the exception of the circumflex, will be found for some part of their course in this region. The musculo-spiral, it is true, almost at once proceeds to the back of the limb, but it again comes to the front, and may be found in the lower part of the outer side of the arm, by separating the origins of the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior from the brachialis anticus, and dissecting in the interval between them. Dissection.—In carrying out this somewhat extensive dissection, the main object of the dissector should be to keep the brachial artery as undisturbed as possible until he has satisfied himself as to its relations. He is therefore, in the first instance, advised to clean only those parts of the muscles which are in immediate relationship to the vessel and its branches. The divided brachial nerves, with the axillary artery and vein, should be arranged in proper order, and then tied to a small piece of wood about IJ inches long [e.g., a piece of a penholder), held trans- versely. By means of a loop of string this can then be fastened to the coracoid process. By this device the dissection of the upper arm will be greatly facilitated. The dissection of the entire length of the brachial artery should be carried out at one and the same time, and its termina- tion in the radial and ulnar arteries should be defined. Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery is the direct con- tinuation of the axillary trunk into the upper arm. It therefore begins at the lower border of the teres major, and it proceeds downwards to a point a short distance below the bend of the elbow, where it ends opposite the neck of the radius by dividing into two terminal branches—the radial and the ulnar arteries. The course which it pursues is not a straight one: at first it lies upon the inner side of the