THE UPPER LIMB. 114 obscured by the soft parts attached to it. It is the pisiform bone, and when taken firmly between the finger and thumb a shght degree of ghding movement can be communicated to it. Traversing the thick integument of the palm, three strongly-marked furrows are apparent. One of these begins at the elevation formed by the scaphoid and trapezium, and curves downwards and outwards around the base of the thenar eminence to the outer margin of the hand. A second crosses the palm transversely. Commencing at the middle of the outer border of the hand, where the first furrow ends, it runs inwards, but, as a general rule, it fades away upon the hypothenar eminence. The third furrow begins near the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and proceeds inwards with a gentle curve across the hypothenar eminence to the inner margin of the hand. The transverse cutaneous furrows at the roots of the fingers, and on the palmar aspects of the interphalangeal joints, should also be noticed, and it should always be remembered that, except in the case of the proximal interphalangeal joints, these do not correspond accurately with the subjacent articulations. The furrows at the roots of the fingers are placed at least one inch below the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, whilst the distal inter- phalangeal furrows lie slightly lower than the corresponding interphalangeal joints. The upper of the two furrows in front of each of the proximal interphalangeal joints is placed immediately over the articulation. Reflection of Skin.—In the first instance the skin should only be raised from the palm. Two incisions are required, viz.—(i) a vertical incision along the middle line of the palm ; (2) a transverse cut across the roots of the fingers from the ulnar to the radial margin of the hand. The skin is tightly bound down to the subjacent deep fascia, and it must be raised with care. More especially is it necessary to proceed with caution at the roots of the fingers in order that some transverse fibres constituting a superficial cutaneous ligament may be preserved. In reflecting the inner flap of integument it is well not to lift it quite as far as the ulnar border of the hand, because it is into this portion of skin that the palmaris brevis is inserted.