PEL VIS. 6ii ment) sweeps backwards upon it to take part in the forma- tion of the prostatic capsule. At its termination it pierces the triangular ligament proper about an inch below the symphysis pubis. It may therefore be looked upon as lying in the interval between these membranes. Immediately subjacent to the mucous membrane the membranous part of the urethra is surrounded by a thin coating of erectile tissue, outside which there is a muscular tunic composed of involuntary fibres arranged circularly. The Spongy Portion of the Urethra.—This is the loigesf division of the urethra. It is embedded throughout in the substance of the corpus spongiosum penis, and shows con- siderable differences in its calibre as it is followed forwards to the glans. At each expansion of the corpus spongiosum there is a corresponding dilatation of the urethra. Thus the canal presents two dilatations—(i.) in the bulb, and (2.) in the glans : between these it is of uniform diameter, and slightly wider than the membranous part. The dilatation of the urethra in the glans is termed the fossa ?iavicularis. At its orifice, which is termed the meatus urinarius, the canal is much contracted, and is even narrower, than any part of the membranous portion. This aperture is a vertical slit, the lower end of which is connected with the prepuce by a fold of mucous membrane, termed the fr(Bnum preputii. In the bulb and in the glans penis the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum is disposed very unequally around the urethra. In the former it is chiefly massed below or behind the tube, whilst in the glans it is chiefly placed in front and upon each side, a very thin layer covering it posteriorly. The ducts of Cowpers glands open into the spongy portion of the urethra by piercing its floor about an inch in front of the triangular ligament. These orifices are extremely minute, and very difficult to find. By making a small hole in the wall of the duct as it emerges from the gland, and passing a fine bristle along it, the dissector may be able to