THE LOWER LIMB. 212 bear in mind that the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve pierces the fascia lata in the middle line of the thigh about an inch or so below Poiipart's ligament. Take care also of the two divisions of the middle cutaneous nerve, which make their appearance in the same line about three inches below Poupart's ligament. To define the saphenous opening, the dissector should commence by cautiously removing the superficial fascia from the fascia lata over the upper parts of the adductor longus and pectineus muscles. . The deep fascia at this point is called the pubic portion of the fascia lata, and as it is cleaned, from within outwards, it will be observed to recede gradually from the surface and to be continued behind the femoral vessels. The clearly-defined inferior cornu of the saphenous opening will now be brought into view, curving under the internal saphenous vein, and blending with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The cribrifor^n fascia, a thin and imperfect layer which is spread over the aperture, must be removed so as to display the outer boundary of the opening. In doing this take great care of the subjacent sheath of the femoral vessels to which it is more or less firmly attached. To a certain extent this dissec- tion is artificial, seeing that the cribriform fascia is merely a continuation inwards of the outer lip of the opening. The outer boundary is usually very much broken up by the superficial branches of the femoral artery which pierce it, and its definition is a matter of some difficulty. In a spare subject, however, the line of demarcation between the cribriform fascia and the iliac portion of the fascia lata^ may be distinguished. Saphenous Opening.—This is the opening in the deep fascia through which the saphenous vein passes to effect its junction with the femoral vein. A thin fascia, called the cribriforju fascia^ is spread over the opening. This fascia has received the name of " cribriform," because it is pierced by the saphenous vein and by numerous lym- phatic vessels. Some difference of opinion exists as to what this fascia really is. It is regarded by many as being a part of the superficial fascia, but it is more correct to look upon it as being a thin layer of fascia lata carried over the open- ing, or, in other words, a prolongation inwards of the outer margin of the opening. ^ This is the name w hich is given to that part of the fascia lata which lies external to the opening.