ABDOMEN. 6o6 blood vessels and nerves ramify before they enter the mucous membrane. It connects the mucous and muscular coats, and has a considerable amount of elastic tissue entering into its composition. Dissection.—The vmcoiis membrane which lines the bladder should now be examined, and, for this purpose, it is necessary to open up the viscus by an incision along its anterior aspect from the apex to the neck. It is better to lay open the first portion of the urethra at the same time by carrying the incision along the mesial plane through the anterior part of the prostate. Mucous Membrane of the Bladder.—When the mucous membrane is washed, it will be observed to be highly rugose, except over a triangular area immediately behind the urethral orifice. This rugosity is due to the loose manner in which the membrane is bound by the submucous layer to the muscular coat. When the bladder is distended, the folds are effaced, and the mucous lining becomes smooth and even. Orifices of the Bladder.—The orifice of the urethra, or the canal which conducts the urine from the bladder, is situated at the neck. Immediately above this, the mucous membrane will be noticed to be elevated so as to form a slight prominence, which bulges forwards into the aperture. This elevation is termed the hiette., or the uvula vesicce, and it results from an accumulation or thickening of the submucous tissue at the spot. Probes should now be passed along the ureters into the interior of the bladder. By this means the dissector will be able to see how very obliquely these ducts pierce the walls of the bladder. Indeed, they traverse the wall for more than three-quarters of an inch before they reach the internal orifices. This arrangement, whilst it permits the passage of urine from the ureter into the bladder, exercises a valvular action in dis- tension of the viscus, and prevents any backward flow of the urine into the ureters. The openings of the ureters are two slit-like apertures, which are placed about an inch and