ABDOMEN. 368 This muscle is supplied by one or two delicate twigs from the perineal division of the pudic nerve.^ Cowper's Glands.—As a general rule, these glands can readily be detected by raising the lower fibres of the com- pressor urethrae. They are small lobulated bodies of a deep yellow colour, and resemble peas both in size and shape. They are placed one on each side of the middle line, immediately below the membranous part of the urethra, and are overlapped by the posterior part of the bulb— separated from it, however, by the triangular ligament. From each a minute duct proceeds, but this duct does not open into the membranous portion of the urethra. It passes forwards between the wall of the urethra and the substance of the bulb for the distance of one inch, and opens on the floor of the spongy part of the urethra. Internal Pudic Artery.—The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac. It is met with in three different regions of the body—-viz. (i.) within the cavity of the pelvis; (2,) in the gluteal region, where it lies upon the spine of the ischium ; and (3.) in the perineal space. It is consequently described as consisting of a pelvic, a gluteal, and a perineal part. The periiieal or third part of the pudic artery enters the perineum by passing through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. At first it is placed deeply; but, as it is traced forwards, it is found to become more superficial, and, at the same time, to incline inwards, so that, at its termination, it lies close to the middle line of the body. In the rectal triangle the pudic artery is contained within a sheath, termed Alcock's canal, which is formed by the splitting of that part of the parietal pelvic fascia which forms the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. It lies fully an inch and a-half above the level of the lower border of the ischial ^ The name traiisverstts perinei profundus is sometimes given to a few extra fibres added to the lower border of the constrictor, by means of which it gains an insertion into the central point of the perineum.