546 ABDOMEN. these connections the dissector will understand that this fascia is simply the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. But what are its superior and inferior attachments ? Above, it is fixed to the last rib, and is thickened so as to form the Uganientum arcuatu77i externum; whilst inferiorly, it is attached to the ilio-lumbar ligament. The quadratus lumborum muscle, therefore, is enclosed in a sheath formed anteriorly by the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, and posteriorly by the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia (Fig. 8i, p. 409). The Fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus is one con- tinuous aponeurotic sheet. Above the level of the crest of the ilium, where it is merely in relation to the psoas, it is thin and narrow. Here it is attached externally to the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum, whilst internally it is fixed to the spine by a series of fibrous arches which bridge over the lumbar arteries. Superiorly, it has been seen to form the thickened band termed the ligavientum arcuatuin mter?iu7n. Below., the fascia expands so as to cover both the psoas and the iliacus, and, at the same time, it becomes much denser and thicker. Here it receives the name of the fascia iliaca^ and presents most important connections. The external iliac vessels lie upon it, whilst the anterior crural nerve lies behind it. The genito-crural nerve pierces it, and comes into relation with the external iliac artery. Externally it is firmly fixed to the crest of the ilium, whilst internally it sweeps over the psoas, and is attached to the brim of the true pelvis. These attachments can be easily demonstrated by dividing it in the vertical direction, over the iliacus, a short way to the outer side of the psoas. It is very loosely attached to the subjacent muscles, so that the fingers can readily be passed behind it, first in an outward and then in an inward direction. Note that no perceptible fascial partition dips backwards from it between the psoas and iliacus. The inferior connections of this fascia have already been