24 THE UPPER LIMB. the anterior margin of the deltoid. In the interval between it and the portion of the pectoralis major which arises from the clavicle, the cephalic vein and, subjacent to this, the Inuneral thoracic artery will be discovered. The Pectoralis Major extends from the anterior aspect of the chest to the humerus. It is divided by a deep fissure into a clavicular and a costo-sternal portion. This fissure penetrates through the entire thickness of the muscle, the clavicular and costo-sternal portions being thus distinct, except close to their insertion. The clavicular portion arises by short tendinous and muscular fibres from an impression on the inner half of the anterior surface of the clavicle. The costo-sternal portion takes origin by fleshy fibres from the anterior surface of the sternum, from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and occasionally from the sixth rib near its cartilage. Under cover of this more superficial origin, and partially independent of it, a variable number of muscular slips spring from the cartilages of the upper six ribs. The pectoralis major is inserted by a flattened bilaminar tendon into the outer lip of the bicipital groove of the humerus (pectoral ridge), and the fibres of the muscle undergo a re-arrangement as they converge upon this tendon. The greater part of the clavicular portion joins the anterior lamina of the common tendon; some of the innermost clavicular fibres, however, are inserted directly into the humerus below the tendon, whilst a few gain attachment to the deep fascia of the arm, and become adherent to the adjacent part of the deltoid. The fibres of the costo-sternal portion of the muscle take different directions as they proceed to join both laminae of the tendon of insertion; thus the upper fibres descend slightly, the intermediate fibres pass horizontally outwards, whilst the lower fibres ascend, and, at the same time, gain the deep surface of the rest of the muscle. A smooth, full and rounded lower border is in this way formed which constitutes the anterior fold of the axilla. The