277 THE LEG. with branches of the external plantar artery. The tarsal artery also anastomoses with the external malleolar and peroneal arteries. From the arch which is formed by the metatarsal artery three dorsal interosseous arteries proceed, one to each of the three outer interosseous spaces. At the clefts between the toes these divide and supply dorsal digital twigs to the adjacent sides of the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes. From the outermost interosseous artery a twig is also given to the outer side of the little toe. The First Dorsal Interosseous Artery takes origin from the dorsalis pedis at the point where it turns downwards to reach the sole of the foot. It continues forwards upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and divides into dorsal digital branches from the inner side of the great toe and the adjacent sides of the great toe and second toe. The Anterior Peroneal Artery is one of the two terminal branches of the peroneal branch of the posterior tibial. It reaches the front of the leg by piercing the interosseous membrane about one and a-half or two inches above the outer malleolus, and it descends upon the lower part of the fibula under cover of the peroneus tertius. It is distributed on the outer side of the tarsus, where it anastomoses with the external malleolar and the tarsal arteries. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum may now be examined. It arises from the anterior part of the os calcis, and also from the lower part of the anterior annular ligament. It splits into four fleshy belHes, which extend forwards and inwards on the dorsum of the foot, and end in four slender tendons for the four inner toes. The inner?}iost tendon crosses the dorsalis pedis artery near its termination, and is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; the remaining three tendons join the long extensor tendons which go to the second, third, and fourth toes. The extensor brevis digitorum is supplied by the external branch of the anterior tibial nerve.