PEL VIS. 633 (i.) upon the greater pliability of the body as compared with the firmer consistence and greater rigidity of the cervix ; and (2.) upon the fact that the cervix is more or less held in position by its attachments to the anterior vaginal wall and the base of the bladder in front, and to the posterior vaginal wall behind. By the term " anteversion," we mean that the whole uterus—both body and cervix—is inclined forwards so as to form an angle of greater or less magnitude with the vertical axis of the trunk. In this position of the uterus the coils of the small intestine and a loop of the sigmoid flexure rest upon its posterior surface, whilst its anterior surface is supported by the bladder. It is very rare indeed that a coil of small intestine is found between the uterus and the bladder in the utero-vesical pouch of peri- toneum. In multiparje (women who have borne children) the anteflexion of the uterus is not so marked as it is in nulliparie. But the uterus possesses a great degree of mobility, and consequently we find that its position is constantly liable to change. Intra-abdominal pressure, and distension of the bladder or rectum, are the chief agencies at work in pro- ducing these effects. Every breath that is taken, every movement of the body, is followed by a slight alteration in the position of the uterus. When the bladder fills the uterus is raised with it; the anteflexion and the anteversion become less marked, and, in cases of hyper-distension of the bladder, the uterus may assume an almost erect position (Fig. 148). With this change of position the relation of the uterus to the rectum becomes more intimate, through the forcing of the small intestine out of the pouch of Douglas. When the rectum becomes distended the uterus is pushed forwards and to the right side. Under no circumstances is it usual to find the uterus occupying an accurately median position. It would appear that it is more frequently inclined to the left than to the right (Waldeyer).