ABDOMEN. 456 peritoneal fold known as the gastro-splenic omentum ; whilst tying the spleen down to the surface of the kidney is another short fold, sometimes called the lieno-renal ligament. The internal surface also shows a longitudinal slit, termed the hilum, which gives passage to the vessels and nerves which enter and leave the organ. The superior extremity of the spleen approaches close to, and usually touches, the left suprarenal capsule ; the inferior extremity, sometimes flattened out into a distinct surface, is in relation to the splenic flexure of the colon, and rests upon the phrenico-colic ligament—a fold of peritoneum which binds the splenic flexure of the colon to the diaphragm. The afiterior border presents two or three notches. The posterior border is not notched. The Stomach.—The stomach is the most dilated part of the alimentary canal, and constitutes the receptacle for the food after it has been masticated and swallowed. The gullet or oesophagus opens into it above, whilst below it becomes continuous with the duodenum or first part of the small intestine. Its form and position are greatly influenced by the amount of food it contains. In the dissecting room the stomach is usually seen in a relaxed and empty condition. The walls are then in apposi- tion with each other, and, if healthy, the viscus will probably lie altogether to the left of the mesial plane. When dis- tended the stomach assumes a pyriform shape, and is curved upon itself. Its upper end, which is large, full, and rounded, forms a bulging called the fundus., which is directed upwards so as to rest on the under surface of the left cupola of the diaphragm. Its lower part becomes much smaller and is termed the pyloric portion. Just before it gives place to the duodenum it usually shows a slight dilatation, which receives the nam-e of ajitrum pylori. To the right of the fundus and about two inches or more below its highest point, is the oesophageal or cardiac orifice. At this point it is joined by the gullet.