444 ABDOMEN. shaped diaphragm, which presents a deep concavity towards the abdomen. Inferiorly, it is floored by the pelvic diaphragm, which is also concave towards the abdominal cavity. It is formed by the levatores ani and the coccygei muscles. Neither the roof nor the floor are com- plete and unbroken. The diaphragm is perforated by certain structures which pass between the thorax and the abdomen. The continuity of the pelvic diaphragm is broken by the passage of certain structures between the pelvic division of the abdominal cavity and the perineum. The upper part of the abdominal cavity extends upwards for a considerable distance under the shelter of the lower ribs and their costal cartilages. The protection which is thus afforded to the viscera in this portion of the cavity is most complete laterally and behind. In front, as the costal cartilages ascend towards the sternum, a wide y\-shaped gap is left between those of opposite sides. The level to which the costal arches descend on either side varies greatly in different subjects, but in the great majority of cases a narrow belt of abdominal wall, from one to two inches wide, is left between the lower border of the chest wall and the highest point of the iliac crest, which receives no skeletal support beyond that which is afforded by the vertebral column. Inferiorly, the expanded iliac bones give support to the abdominal walls posteriorly and laterally, whilst, in its lowest part, the pubic, ischial, sacral, and coccygeal bones form very complete bony boundaries for the cavity. Whilst the abdominal cavity, therefore, is very fully pro- tected, posteriorly and laterally, by skeletal parts, the front wall is almost entirely formed by the muscles and aponeuroses which have been dissected in this region. From this it will be seen that the roof, floor, and the greater part of the abdominal wall are composed of muscular structures, the contraction of which would diminish the capacity of the cavity, and subject the contained viscera to compression.