430 ABDOMEN. called the digital fossa. Note particularly that it is along the posterior border of the testicle that the parietal part of the tunica vaginalis becomes continuous with the visceral part. Dissection.—Some of the main facts relating to the structure of the testicle may be learned by a careful naked-eye examination of its different parts. For this purpose place it in a cork-lined tray and dissect it under water. Having fixed it with pins to the bottom of the tray, begin by tracing the vessels into the gland. In doing this a quantity of involuntary muscular tissue spread over the posterior border of the testicle and the epididymis becomes apparent. This is the inner mtisciilar tunic of Kolliker. The intimate manner in which the visceral tunica vaginalis clings to the surface of the testis should next be ascertained by endeavouring to raise it as a distinct layer. Remove now the parietal tunica vaginalis and free the globus minor and body of the epididymis from the back of the gland. This can be easily done by cutting the serous covering as it passes from one to the other, and breaking through the fibrous tissue which intervenes between the globus minor and the lower part of the body of the testis. Do not interfere with the globus major. Turning the epididymis aside, the body of the gland may be divided transversely with a sharp knife about its middle into an upper and a lower portion. Structure of the Testicle.—The cut surface of the lower part of the body of the testis may now be studied. The dense, tough fibrous coat which envelops it under cover of the visceral tunica vaginalis first attracts attention. It is called the tujtica albugi?iea. At the posterior border of the gland it will be seen to be projected into the interior in the form of a thick fibrous elevation. This extends along the whole length of the posterior border, and receives the name of the mediastinuui testis (corpus Highmori). It is traversed by the vessels that pass into and out from the gland, and it is also tunnelled by a plexus of seminal canals, called the rete testis. From the front and sides of the mediastinum testis radi- ating fibrous lines will be seen passing into the substance of the testis. These are the cut margins of incomplete fibrous lamellae or septa which extend towards the deep sur-