178 THE LOWER LIMB. order that they may be subsequently traced to their origins. As the surface of the great sacro-sciatic hgament is gradually laid bare, a number of small arteries (the coccygeal branches of the sciatic arter}-) \\-ill be seen piercing it and immediately sinking into the substance of the gluteus maximus. These cannot be retained. It is necessar}- to sever them in order that the muscle may be freed. The perforating branch of the fourth sacral nerve, which winds round the lower border of the gluteus maximus near the cocc}-x, must also be remembered and traced to the great sacro-sciatic ligament which it will be seen to pierce. The gluteus maximus is now completely separated from the parts from which it arises, but it cannot be thrown downwards towards its inser- tion. It is still tied to its place by the blood-vessels and ner\-es which enter its deep surface. These are (i) the branches of the superficial diz'isioji of the gluteal artery which we have already seen above the level of the p}Tiformis; (2) branches of the sciatic artery and the ijiferior ghiteal nei've below the level of the p}Tiformis. The veins may at once be removed, but the arteries and nerves must be systematically cleaned as they come into \'iew, and traced into the substance of the gluteus maximus. Finally, to allow of the complete reflection of the gluteus maximus, these vessels and nerves must be cut, and it is ad^■is- able to leave in connection with the cut end of each a small portion of muscle-substance in order that they may be readily recognised in the further steps of the dissection. The whole muscle may now be thrown forwards, and after a little dissection an admirable ^•iew is obtained of its insertion. Piercing the lower part of this there will be seen a few small twigs of the first perforating arter}-. In the case of the right limb the procedure adopted in reflecting the gluteus maximus is the same as detailed above, with this exception, that we begin by detaching it from the coccyx and great sciatic ligament and work upwards towards the ilium. Although we have recommended that the gluteus maximus should be reflected from above downwards, it is right to mention that an equally instructive view of the subjacent parts may be obtained by detaching it from its insertion and throwing it upwards towards its origin. The senior student would do well to adopt this method. Bursas under cover of the Gluteus Maximus.—Two bursa, are found in relation to the insertion of the gluteus maximus. The one—a large loose sac—is interposed between the aponeurosis, into which the upper part of the muscle is inserted and the great trochanter of the femur. It allows the bone to play freely on the under surface of