THE UPPER LIMB. I04 internal supracondyloid ridge. The fascia covering it and the fibrous septum on its inner side also contribute fibres. The coronoid head is placed deeply, and it may be recognised from the fact that it intervenes between the median nerve and the ulnar artery. To bring it into view the superficial humeral head must be drawn well inwards. The coronoid head is very variable in size. As a rule, it is a small fleshy slip, but sometimes it is chiefly fibrous. It arises from the inner aspect of the coronoid process of the ulna, and soon joins the deep surface of the humeral head. The muscle thus formed is carried obliquely downwards and outwards, and ends in a tendon which gains insertion into a rough impression upon the middle of the outer surface of the radius. This attachment is placed on the summit of the chief curve of the radius, an arrangement which enables the muscle to exercise its pronating action at a great advantage. Close to its insertion the pronator radii teres is crossed by the radial artery and is covered by the supinator longus muscle. The Flexor Carpi Radialis arises from the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm and the fibrous septa which intervene between it and the adjacent muscles. Its fleshy belly gives place a short distance below the middle of the forearm to a long flattened tendon, which at the wrist traverses the groove on the front of the trapezium in a special compartment of the anterior annular ligament. It is inserted into the palmar aspect of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index, and sHghtly also into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its rela- tions to the annular ligament, and also its attachment to the metacarpus, will be exposed and studied at a later stage of the dissection. The Palmaris Longus is a long slender muscle, which is not always present. It springs from the common origin, the aponeurotic investment of the forearm and the fibrous septa on either side of it. Its tendon pierces the deep