ABDOMINAL WALL. 391 from the subjacent superficial fascia and turned outwards. If the abdominal wall is flaccid, the dissection may be facilitated by inflating the abdomen. Make an incision through the umbilicus large enough to admit the nozzle of the bellows, and when the walls are quite tense secure the opening with twine, which has previously been sewn round the lips of the incision. The Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia which is now laid bare is seen to present the same appearance, and possess the same characters as in other locahties. Above, it is thin and weak, and is directly continuous with the corre- sponding fascia over the chest. Following it downwards, it will be noticed to become more strongly marked, and to acquire a greater density. Towards the low^er part of the abdomen it consists of two layers—a fatty superficial stratum called Camper's fascia^ and a deep membranaceous stratum termed Scarpa's fascia. There is another point, however, in which the superficial fascia differs somewhat from the same fascia in other parts of the body. It is more elastic, and this elasticity is due to the presence of elastic fibres in its deeper membranaceous part. Over the lower part of the linea alba the elastic tissue is generally seen collected in the form of a distinct band. A reference to comparative anatomy gives interest to this fact. In the human subject this elastic band is the rudi- mentary representative of a continuous and distinct layer of yellow elastic tissue {the abdominal tunic), which is present in the horse. But what becomes of the two layers of the superficial fascia if we follow them downwards from the front of the abdomen ? The fatty layer of Camper is carried over Poupart's ligament, and becomes directly continuous with the fatty superficial fascia on the front of the thigh. The relations of the fascia of Scarpa are very different. In the region of the pubes it is carried continuous downwards over the spermatic cords, the penis and scrotum, into the peri- neum, where it becomes continuous with the fascia of Colles. On either side of this it proceeds downwards, and