595 PEL VIS. The insertion of the levator ani must also be looked at from three points of view. The anterior fibres proceed downwards upon the lateral aspect of the prostate ; and from the support which they give to it, they are sometimes spoken of under the name of levatorprostatce. Behind the prostate they meet in the mesial plane, with the correspond- ing fibres of the opposite side, and are inserted into the central point of the perineum. The intermediate and largest portion of the muscle descends upon the side of the rectum, into which it is inserted, some of the fibres mingling with those of the external sphincter. The posterior fibres pass downwards and inwards and are inserted into a median raphe behind the anus, and also into the side of the lower end of the coccyx. The levator ani draws its nervous supply from the fourth sacral 7ierve and the inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve. Coccygeus.—This is a small triangular muscle which lies behind and upon the same plane as the levator ani— indeed, their margins are contiguous. It arises by its narrow end from the pelvic surface of the ischial spine, and from the parietal pelvic fascia above the spine. Expanding as it passes inwards, it is inserted into the margin of the lower piece of the sacrum and the margin and anterior aspect of the coccyx. It is supplied by twigs from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. Pelvic Spinal Nerves.—The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves in the pelvis are six in number—viz., five sacral and one coccygeal. These should be dissected, and the various branches which they give off followed to their distribution, or the point where they quit the pelvis. It is well to begin by cleaning the lumbo-sacral cord and securing the upper root of the superior gluteal nerve which springs from its posterior aspect. The upper four sacral nerves appear through the anterior sacral foramina; the fifth sacral nerve comes forward in the interval between the sacrum and coccyx; and the coccygeal a little lower down