ABDOMEN. 544 colon. Towards its termination it is crossed by an artery, a vein, and a minute nerve, viz., the spermatic artery, the deep circumflex iliac vein, and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. It rests upon the inner margin, and close to Poupart's ligament, directly in front of the psoas muscle. The artery is separated from the muscle, however, by the iliac fascia, to which it is bound down by a condensed part of the extra-peritoneal tissue, which passes over it. The genito-crural nerve lies along the outer side of the artery, and the companion vein is placed on its inner side ; on the right side, however, the vein, as it passes upwards, gradually comes to lie behind the artery. The external iliac gives off two large branches to the abdominal wall, viz., (i.) the deep epigastric; (2.) the deep circumflex iliac. They arise close to Poupart's ligament, and have both been examined (pp. 419, 421). The veins corresponding to these arteries open into the external iliac vein. Deep Lymphatic Glands.—The dissector has, doubtless, noticed a chain of lymphatic glands in connection with the external iliac artery, the common iliac artery, and also extending upwards upon the vertebral column in relation to the aorta and inferior vena cava. The external iliac glands receive the efferent vessels which proceed from the inguinal glands. As we proceed upwards, the lymphatic vessels which connect the various glands become greatly diminished in number, but much increased in calibre, until at last they resolve themselves into four or five trunks, which join the lower part of the receptaculum chyli. Receptaculum Chyli.—This is the dilated commencement of the thoracic duct. It is placed upon the body of the second lumbar vertebra, in the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta. To bring it into view, it is necessary to separate the right crus from the lumbar vertebrae and pull it aside. When fully displayed, the receptaculum chyli is seen to be a narrow elongated sac