135 FOREARM AND HAND. which the superficial palmar arch descends can be indicated by drawing a line transversely across the palm from the lower margin of the outstretched thumb. The deep palmar arch lies half an inch higher. The digital arteries, which spring from the convexity of the superficial arch, run in a line with the clefts between the fingers. An incision, therefore, which is made below the superficial arch, and in a direction corresponding to the central line of one of the fingers, may be con- sidered free from danger in so far as the vessels are concerned. The loose synovial sheath which envelops the flexor tendons as they pass behind the anterior annular ligament has been noticed to extend upwards into the lower part of the forearm, and downwards into the palm. When this is attacked by inflammatory action it is apt to become distended with fluid (thecal ganglion) and the anatomical arrangement of parts at once offers an explanation of the appearance which is presented. There is a bulging in the palm, and a bulging in the lower part of the forearm, but no swelling at all at the wrist. Here the dense annular ligament resists the expansion of the synovial sheath, and an hour-glass constriction is evident at this point. The fingers are very subject to an inflammatory process, termed whitlow, and, in considering this, it is essential to remember that the flexor fibrous sheath ends on the base of the distal phalanx in each digit. When the whitlow occurs below this, in the pulp of the finger, the vitality of the distal part of the ungual phalanx is endangered, but the flexor tendons may be regarded as being tolerably safe. When the inflammation occurs above this, and involves the flexor sheath, as it generally does, sloughing of the tendons is to be apprehended, unless an immediate opening is made. And no slight superficial incision will suffice. The knife must be carried backwards in the centre of the finger, so as to freely lay open the sheath containing the tendons. Early interference in cases of whitlow of the thumb and little finger is even more urgently required than in the case of the other three digits, because, as we have seen, the digital synovial sheaths of the former are, as a rule, offshoots from the great carpal bursa, and offer a ready means for the upward extension of the inflammatory action. Every amputation of the fingers above the insertion of the tendons of the flexor profundus involves the opening of the flexor sheaths, and this no doubt explains the frequent occurrence of palmar trouble after opera- tions of this kind. The open tubes offer a ready passage, by means of which septic material may travel upwards into the palm, and, in the case of the thumb and little finger, into the carpal tunnel and lower part of the forearm.