329 THE ANKLE-JOINT. external and internal lateral ligaments more fully into relief, and at the same time display the articulating surfaces, and thus permit the play of these surfaces to be seen when the joint is flexed and extended. The Anterior and Posterior Ligaments are feeble bands which are placed in front of and behind the joint. They are attached to the margins of the articulating surfaces, except in front and below, where the anterior ligament is fixed to the neck of the astragalus. The fibres of these ligaments have for the most part a transverse direction. The External Lateral Ligament is divided into three distinct bands—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior. The anterior fasciculus is a flattened band which passes from the anterior border of the lower end of the fibula to the outer and back part of the neck of the astragalus. The middle fasciculus^ round and cord-like, passes from a point a little in front of the tip of the external malleolus to the external surface of the calcaneum. The posterior fasci- culus^ the strongest of the three, is a powerful band of fibres which proceeds almost horizontally inwards from the deep pit behind the lower articular surface of the fibula to a prominent tubercle on the back of the astragalus. This tubercle is sometimes detached, and forms a supernumerary tarsal bone which may represent the os trigomim found in some mam mals. In such cases it has been mistaken for a fracture. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament is of a tri- angular form. Its apex is directed upwards and is attached to a shallow pit on the under border of the inner malleolus. Its fibres diverge as they descend, and are attached in a continuous layer from before backwards to the scaphoid, astragalus, sustentaculum tali, and behind this to the astra- galus again. The Synovial Membrane lines the ligaments above de- scribed, and sends a small process upwards between the tibia and fibula. It is thrown into a transverse fold in front, when the joint is flexed, and into a similar fold behind when the joint is extended.