PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 31 The Axillary Fascia is a dense felted membrane which stretches across the base of the armpit. It is continuous in front with the deep fascia covering the pectoraHs major, behind with the sheaths of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, and internally with the deep fascia over the serratus magnus. Notice that it is drawn upwards towards the hollow of the axilla. This is chiefly due to the con- nection of its deep surface with the sheath of the pecto- ralis minor, but also to its attachment to the areolar tissue which fills the space. In a well-injected subject a small artery, from the lower part of the axillary trunk, may be observed ramifying upon the fascia. Dissection.—Begin the dissection of the axilla from below by carefully separating the deep fascia from the lower edge of the pectoralis major muscle, so as to expose and clean the anterior fold of the axilla. Then grasp the edge of the fascia with the hand and pull it backwards, teasing out with the point of the knife the areolar tissue, which holds it in place. By this means the axillary fascia is reflected in one piece, and the upper lateral cutaneous nerves are put on the stretch, and can be followed out. Lateral Cutaneous Branches of the Second and Third Intercostal Nerves.—As a rule, the first intercostal nerve does not give off a lateral cutaneous nerve. That which springs from the second intercostal nerve is the largest of the series, and differs from the others in not dividing into an anterior and posterior branch. It is termed the intercosto-humeral nerve, on account of its being distributed to the skin on the inner and back aspect of the upper part of the arm. To reach this destination it crosses the axilla and pierces the deep fascia. But before doing so it establishes communications and forms a plexiform arrange- ment in the axilla with the nerve of Wrisberg (the lesser internal cutaneous nerve) and the lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal nerve.^ This plexus may be joined by another twig, which is occasionally present, viz., the minute lateral cutaneous branch of the first intercostal nerve.