429 ABDOMINAL WALL. This is an elongated and arched structure, which is adapted to the upper end and outer side of the posterior border of the testicle. Its upper end is enlarged, and is termed the globus major; its lower end is called the globus minor., and the intervening portion, which is narrow, receives the name of the body of the epididymis. The globus major is directly attached to the upper end of the testicle, which it surmounts like a helmet, by the vasa efferentia, which pass from the one into the other. The globus mi?ior is merely fixed to the back of the testicle by areolar tissue, whilst the body is free, and is separated from the body of the testicle by an involution of the serous covering which forms the digital fossa. If the upper end of the body of the testis be carefully examined, two minute structures will be observed attached to it close to the globus major. These are the " hydatids of Morgagni,^' remnants of an embryonic canal called Miiller's duct. One of the hydatids is usually pear-shaped and stalked; the other is smaller and generally sessile. The vas deferens emerges from the lower end of the globus minor, and then passes upwards upon the posterior border of the testicle on the inner side of the epididymis. By this relation, the side to which a given testicle belongs can be readily detected. The vessels have already been seen entering and emerging from the posterior border of the testicle. Visceral Layer of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis.—Having learned the foregoing points concerning the testicle, the student is in a position to trace the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis upon its surface. Observe that it envelops it closely on every side, with the exception of the posterior border, where the vessels enter and emerge. The posterior aspect of the epididymis is also, to a certain extent, left bare. Follow it backwards over the outer surface of the organ, and it will be seen to form a little cul-de-sac between the body of the epididymis and the body of the testicle. This is