FRONT OF THE THIGH. 213 The importance of the saphenous opening consists in the fact that it is through it that a femoral hernia makes its way to the surface. It is oval in shape and very harrow, being not more than half-an-inch in width; but it is at least one and a-half inches long. Its inner boundary lies on a deeper plane than the outer boundary ; it is formed by the receding pubic portion of the fascia lata. The outer boundary is crescentic, and is known as the falciform edge of the opening. It is formed by the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The inferior cornu of the falciform edge curves inwards under the saphenous vein, in the form of a very distinct process which joins the pubic part of the fascia lata. The superior cornu (sometimes called Hey's ligament), not so well defined, sweeps inwards in front of the upper part of the subjacent femoral sheath, and joins the front of Gimbernat's ligament. Reflection of Skin.—The next step in the dissection consists in reflecting the skin from the lower two-thirds of the front of the thigh, and also from the anterior aspect of the knee. This is effected by extending the vertical incision, which has already been made upon the inner aspect of the thigh downwards .to the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and then carrying a transverse incision from the lower end of the vertical cut outwards over the front of the leg to its outer aspect. In raising the skin from the front of the knee take care not to injure the patellar plexus of nerves and the patellar bursa. In reflecting the integu- ment from this extensive area, we have two objects in view—Firstly, the dissection of the cutaneous nerves and vessels of the thigh ; and secondly, the examination of the entire extent of the fascia lata. Internal Saphenous Vein.—The internal saphenous vein should be dissected in the superficial fascia to the lower limit of the area from which the skin has been reflected. It is the largest superficial vein of the lower limb. Taking origin on the dorsum of the foot, it extends upwards on the leg. On the inner side of the knee it will be seen to be placed very far back. As it reaches the thigh it inclines somewhat forwards, and runs upwards on the front and inner aspect of the limb to the saphenous opening in