ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 533 each side of these from two Hgamentous arches, termed the liga77ienta arcuata; laterally^ it arises from the lower six costal arches. Examine each of these attachments in turn. Anterior Attachment.—The sternal origin consists of two slips w^hich spring from the back of the xiphoid cartilage. These are separated from each other by a narrow linear interval filled by areolar tissue, and comparable w4th the wider interval in the mesial plane behind, which separates the two crura of the diaphragm. The Lateral Attachment.—The costal origin consists of six pointed and fleshy slips which spring from the deep surfaces of the lower six costal cartilages. These inter- digitate with the digitations of the transversalis abdominis. The sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm are sepa- rated by a small triangular interval, in which the pleural and peritoneal membranes are merely separated from erch other by some loose areolar tissue. Through this gap the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery descends into the abdominal wall. The Posterior Attachment.—^ho. ligamentum arcuattim externum is a fibrous band which stretches from the last rib to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. It arches in front of the quadratus lumborum, and is merely the thickened upper part of the fascia which covers this muscle, i.e., the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. By pressing the rib backwards the arch will be rendered more prominent. The ligai7ie?itum arciiatum internum arches over the psoas muscle, and, like the external ligament, is simply a thickening of the fascia which covers it. It is the stronger of the two, and is attached by one extremity to the tip of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and by the other to the body of the second lumbar vertebra and the tendinous part of the crus. Fleshy fibres arise from both of these arcuate bands; those from the internal ligament are more numerous and better marked than those which take origin from the external ligament, and they are