ABDOMEN. 4o8 nerves of the series. They are directed forwards between the internal obhque and the transversahs close to the crest of the ilium. The iho-hypogastric is the higher of the two, and gives off an iliac or lateral branchy which pierces the two oblique muscles and then crosses the crest of the ilium to reach the skin of the gluteal region. The hypogastric portion of the nerve perforates the internal oblique a short distance in front of the anterior superior spine of the iUum, and then runs forwards towards the linea alba. It becomes super- ficial by piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique immediately above the external abdominal ring. The ilio-ingiiinal nerve gives off no lateral branch. It pierces the internal oblique, to which it gives branches, a short distance above Poupart's ligament, and it becomes super- ficial by passing through the external abdominal ring. Transversalis Muscle (transversus abdominis).—This is the deepest of the three muscular strata which enter into the formation of the wall of the abdomen. It has a threefold origin—viz., from the pelvis, from the vertebral column, and from the costal cartilages. By its pelvic origin it is attached to the outer third of Poupart's ligament and to the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium; by its costal origin it arises from the inner surfaces of the costal cartilages of the lower six ribs by a series of slips or digitations which interdigitate with the slips of origin of the diaphragm; by its vertebral origiji it is attached through the medium of the lumbar fascia to the spinous processes, transverse processes, and bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. In point of fact, the lumbar fascia constitutes the posterior aponeurosis of this muscle. But the manner in which this fascia is attached to the vertebrae requires further explanation. As it approaches the spine it splits into three layers or lamellae; of these the posterior lamella is attached to the tips of the spinous processes, the anterior lamella to the bodies of the