I40 THE UPPER LIMB. pollicis, to reach the interosseous membrane and the back of the carpus. In following this part of the nerve, the terminal or perforating branch of the anterior interosseous artery will be seen appearing on the back of the forearm, under cover of the extensor secundi internodii ])ollicis. Deep Muscles.—These are—(i) The supinator brevis ; (2) the extensor ossis metacarpi polHcis; (3) the extensor primi internodii polHcis; (4) the extensor secundi inter- nodii polHcis; and (5) the extensor indicis proprius. The supinator brevis will be recognised from the close manner in which it is apph"ed to the upper part of the shaft of the radius. The other muscles take origin from above downwards in the order in which they have been named. The attachments of the supinator brevis cannot be satis- factorily studied at present. They will be described at a later stage of the dissection. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis (m. abductor longus pollicis) arises from both bones of the forearm, and from the interosseous membrane which stretches between them. Its origin from the radius corresponds to the middle third of its posterior surface; its origin from the ulna is at a higher level from the outer part of the posterior aspect of the shaft immediately below the oblique line which marks the lower limit of the insertion of the anconeus. The muscle proceeds downwards and outwards, and comes to the surface in the interval between the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor carpi radialis brevior. Closely accompanied by the extensor primi internodii pol- licis it crosses the two radial extensors. The tendon which issues from it at this point is continued downwards over the outer side of the expanded lower end of the radius, and under cover of the posterior annular ligament. It'Is inserted into the radial side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis (m. extensor brevis pollicis) is placed along the lower border of the preceding muscle. It arises from a small portion of the posterior aspect