ABDOMEN. pudic artery. It is partially divided into two lateral parts by a median septum, which dips backwards from the super- ficial fascia. This septum is very perfect posteriorly, but becomes incomplete towards the scrotum. Traced forwards, the fascia of Colles passes over the scrotum, penis, and spermatic cords, to the front of the abdomen, where it be- comes continuous with the fascia of Scarpa. How to verify these facts.—The student can verify these facts in two ways, viz.—(i.) by inflating the pouch with air, and (2.) by dissec- tion. Make a longitudinal incision, large enough to admit the nozzle of the bellows, into the superficial fascia towards the back part of the pouch and a little to one side of the middle line. This cut must be carried through the fascia until the fibres of the superficial perineal muscles are exposed. In using the bellows, the margins of the opening into the pouch must be held tightly around its nozzle. The air which is introduced passes forwards, and is first confined to one side of the pouch. Reaching the scrotum, however, where the septum is in- complete, it forces its way across the middle line, and inflates the opposite side of the pouch. The pouch is now rendered prominent, and the attachments of the fascia become very evident. The air cannot pass into the rectal triangle owing to the union of the fascia of Colles to the base of the triangular ligament; it cannot pass down the inner aspect of the thighs from the attachment of the fascia to the sides of the pubic arch ; it can only force its way forwards under the superficial fascia and dartos muscle of the scrotum, and from this on to the penis and along the spermatic cords to the anterior aspect of the abdomen. By this means the dissector obtains a very striking view of the course which would be taken by urine escaping from a rupture in the urethra in front of the triangular ligament. The attachments of the fascia of Colles are so important that the student should also test them by dissection. To do this it is necessary to make two incisions through the superficial fascia. Enter the knife in the middle line at the root of the scrotum, and carry it backwards and outwards to the tuber ischii on each side of the body. A central ^-shaped flap and two lateral flaps of fascia are thus marked out. By raising and turning backwards the central portion, the septum of the pouch is brought into view, and the attachment of the fascia to the base of the triangular ligament is demonstrated, and by throwing each lateral flap outwards it will be seen to be firmly fixed to the side of the pubic arch. In effecting this dissection the utmost care is demanded on the part of the student. In the areolar tissue immediately subjacent to the