401 ABDOMINAL WALL. parts which are related to inguinal hernia. On the right side of the body divide the lower part of the aponeurosis along the outer border of the rectus to the pubes. This incision should pass to the inner side of the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring, so that this opening may be preserved. The triangular flap of aponeurosis may now be thrown downwards and outwards. By this proceeding we can study more successfully Poupart's ligament, the entire extent of the internal oblique muscle, and the cremaster muscle. Poupart's Ligament (ligamentum inguinale).Poupart's ligament is merely the thickened lower border of the aponeurosis of the external oblique folded backwards upon itself. It thus presents a rounded surface towards the thigh and a grooved surface towards the abdominal cavity. The manner in which it is attached by its outer and inner extremities deserves the close study of the dissector. Externally it is fixed to the anterior superior spine of the ilium; internally it has a double attachment—viz. (i) to the pubic spine, which may be considered as its attachment proper; (2) through the medium of Gimbernat's ligament to the ilio-pectineal line. Poupart's ligament does not pursue a straight course between its iliac and pubic attachments. It describes a curve, the convexity of which is directed downwards and outwards towards the thigh. By its lower border it gives attachment to the fascia lata. When this is divided Poupart's ligament at once loses its curved direction. Gimbernat's Ligament (Fig. 78) is a triangular process of aponeurotic fascia. Raise the spermatic cord, and place the finger behind the inner end of Poupart's ligament, and press downwards. The structure upon which the finger rests is the ligament in question, and the student should note that at this point it offers a barrier to the passage of the finger into the thigh. With the handle of the knife its shape and connections can be easily defined. Its apex ^ The term superficial crural arch is frequently applied to this ligament. VOL. I.—26