THE UPPER LIMB. 36 therefore lying very deeply, is the exterjial respiratory nerve, or nerve of Bell. A small branch, called the superior thoracic, takes origin from this part of the axillary artery, and must be followed out. Lastly, the cephalic ajid thoracic axis veins must be traced to their junction with the axillary vein. The sternal part of the pectoralis major muscle may now be divided about its middle, and the two portions thrown outwards and inwards. Several nerves will be observed entering its deep surface, and these must be preserved. They come from the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves. One or more from the latter pierce the pectoralis minor, and are now seen emerging from its anterior surface. The pectoralis minor must be cleaned and its attachments defined. The Pectoralis Minor is a fan-shaped muscle, which ex- tends from the thoracic wall to the scapula. It arises by three flat, tendinous slips from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, close to their cartilages. Between the ribs these slips are prolonged into the anterior intercostal aponeuroses. From this origin the fibres proceed outwards and upwards, and converge upon a stout tendon, which is inserted into the front part of the inner border and upper surface of the coracoid process. The pectoralis minor is supplied by the internal anterior thoracic nerve. Dissection.—The axillary vessels and the brachial nerves can now be cleaned throughout their entire extent, but the pectoralis minor muscle should not be reflected until the relations of these important structures have been thoroughly studied. The Axillary Artery is a portion of the great arterial trunk which carries blood for the supply of the upper.limb. It begins above at the outer border of the first rib, where it is continuous with the subclavian artery, and it ends below at the lower border of the teres major muscle, where it becomes continuous with the brachial artery. Its course through the axilla varies with the position of the limb. When the arm is abducted from the trunk (as it is when the axilla is being dissected), the student should observe that a straight line—drawn from the centre of the clavicle to a point below the anterior fold of the axilla, and im-