14 THE UPPER LIMB. with the upper root of the nerve of Bell. It pierces the scalenus medius, and then proceeds downwards under cover of the levator anguli scapulae to the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles to which it is distributed. The nerve to the rhomboids likewise supplies one or two twigs to the levator anguli scapulae.^ The Posterior Scapular Artery is a branch of the transver- salis colli, and takes origin close to the outer margin of the levator anguli scapulae. At first it proceeds backwards under cover of this muscle, but soon changing its direction it runs downwards along the base or vertebral border of the scapula under cover of the rhomboid muscles. It gives numerous branches to both ventral and dorsal aspects of the scapula, and its terminal twigs may enter the latissimus dorsi. One large branch usually passes back- wards in the interval between the rhomboid muscles, or through the greater rhomboid, to reach the trapezius muscle, and another branch, the supraspifial., is given to the supraspinatus muscle, and the structures superficial to it. Reflection of Latissimus Dorsi.—Divide the muscle by carrying the knife from its upper margin, about three inches from the vertebral spines, obliquely downwards and backwards to a point a little way behind its digitation from the last rib. In raising the inner portion of the muscle care must be taken of the subjacent serratus posticus inferior. The attachment of the latissimus dorsi to the crest of the ilium and to the lumbar aponeurosis can now be verified. The outer part of the muscle is next to be thrown forwards, so that the three costal digita- tions may be seen from their deep aspect, and also for the purpose of displapng the termination of the subscapular ai'tery and the long stib- scapiilar nerve. These are found upon the deep surface of the muscle at the inferior angle of the scapula. Lastly, replace the outer portion of the latissimus dorsi muscle, and fix it in position by a stitch or two around one or more of the ribs. This is done so as to preserve the posterior fold of the axilla. The ner\'e to the rhomboids sometimes pierces the levator anguli scapulae in two or more branches, which unite in a plexiform manner.