MALE PERINEUM. 351 superficial fascia are the superjicial perineal vessels and nerves, which are certain to be injured, or perhaps even reflected with the fascia, unless the greatest caution be exercised. Sphincter ani Externus.—When this muscle is cleaned it will be seen to consist of a thick ring of muscular fibres surrounding the orifice of the rectum. Behind, it is attached by a pointed tendon to the tip and posterior surface of the terminal part of the coccyx; i?t front, it blends with other perineal muscles in the central point of the perineum. The fibres, in passing between these two points of attachment, encircle the anal orifice and con- stitute a true sphincter muscle. Some of the superficial fibres, both in front and behind the anal opening, are directly attached to the skin. It draws its nervous supply from two sources, viz., the fourth sacral nerve and the inferior hce?norrhoidal nerve. Ischio-rectal Fossa.—Although the rectum is the largest and most important object which is contained within the posterior portion of the perineum, it does not fill up the entire extent of the rectal triangle. An interval or recess is left upon each side of the rectum—between it and the ischium—and to this recess is given the name of the ischio- rectal fossa (Fig. 66, p. 355). In shape the ischio-rectal fossa is pyramidal, the apex of the pyramid being directed upwards towards the pelvic cavity, and the base downwards towards the integuments. The inner wall of the space is sloping, whilst the outer wall is steep and perpendicular. Boundaries.—Whilst the term ischio-rectaV^ is applied to this fossa, it must be borne in mind that neither the ischium nor the rectum enter directly into the formation of its walls. Both are separated from the space by fascial and muscular layers. Upon the inner aspect of the ischium is the obturator internus muscle, and this again is covered by the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia as it is continued down to be attached to the tuberosity of the