238 THE LOWER LIMB. From the femoral artery, as it traverses Hunter's canal, proceed muscular twigs and the anastomotic branch. The muscular bra7iches are irregular in number and in their mode of origin. They supply the vastus internus, the adductor longus, and the sartorius. The Anastomotic Artery {a. genu suprema) springs from the femoral trunk a short distance above the point where it enters the popliteal space by passing through the opening in the adductor magnus. It almost immediately divides into a superficial and a deep branch: very frequently, indeed, these branches take separate origin from the femoral artery. The superficial hratich accompanies the long saphenous nerve, and leaves Hunter's canal by passing under cover of the lower border of the fibrous expansion which is stretched over the canal. On the inner side of the knee it appears between the gracilis and sartorius, and it ends in branches to the integument on the inner aspect of the upper part of the leg. The deep branch enters the substance of the vastus internus and proceeds downwards in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus (Fig. 45). It gives some twigs to the vastus internus and others which spread out over the upper and inner aspect of the knee-joint, and anastomose with branches of the internal articular arteries. One well-marked branch runs outwards above the patella to anastomose with the superior external articular artery. The Femoral Vein is the direct continuation upwards of the popliteal vein. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus, through which it enters Hunter's canal, whilst above it passes behind Poupart's ligament, and becomes continuous with the external iliac vein. It accompanies the femoral artery, but the relations of the two vessels to each other differ at different stages of their course. In the lower part of Hunter's canal the vein lies on the outer side of the artery, but it inclines inwards as it ascends, and in the upper part of the thigh it hes on its inner side and on the same