48o ABDOMEN. abdomen. The importance of these fossoe depends upon the fact that one or other of them may become the site of a form of hernia, termed retro-peritoneal hernia, through a knuckle of the small intestine be- coming engaged within it. From their position they are termed (i) the fossa duodeno-jejunalis : (2) the fossa subccecalis, and (3) the fossa in- tersigmoidea. In every abdomen that is opened in the dissecting room these fossce should be looked for before the peritoneal folds are dissected. The fossa dnodeno-Jejiuialis, if present, will be brought into view by throwing the omentum with the transverse colon upwards over the ribs and drawing the coils of the small intestine well to the right. The little fossa lies on the left side of the commencement of the jejunum. It is bounded below by a free projecting semilunar peritoneal fold, and it passes for a short distance behind the parietal peritoneum. Cases are known in which this small peritoneal pocket has become so distended through the entrance of the small intestine that it has formed a hernial sac into which the whole of the jejunum and ileum has passed. When the fossa sitbccccalis exists it will be brought into view by drawing the ctecum forwards and to the right. It is a small peritoneal pocket which ascends for a short distance behind the ileo-ccecal junction. It is right to mention that there are several varieties of this fossa. The fossa i^itersiginoidea is very rarely seen in the adult. When present it will be found by raising the sigmoid loop of the great intestine. Its mouth lies about the middle of the under surface of the root of the sigmoid mesentery, over the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles (Henle). Dissection.—The structures which are included between the two layers of the mesentery j^roper and between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon must now be dissected. The great omentum being thrown well up over the lower margin of the chest, remove the entire anterior layer of the mesentery from its root down to where it is attached to the gut. Begin at the upper end of the jejunum at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and gradually travel downwards to the lower end of the ileum, stripping off the peritoneum and cleaning the structures exposed. To display all the branches of the superior mesenteric artery it is necessary to remove also the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon and the peritoneum which proceeds on the posterior wall of the abdomen towards the caecum and ascending colon. Follow the main trunk of the superior mesenteric artery upwards to its origin from the aorta, by raising the lower border of the pancreas. Superior Mesenteric Artery (arteria mesenterica superior). •—The superior mesenteric artery springs from the front of