ABDOMEN. 532 arteries enter its substance—viz., the superior., 7mddle, and inferior capsular arteries. On the anterior surface of the suprarenal capsule of each side there is a slit, called the hiluvi^ from which a large vein emerges. When a section is made through the suprarenal capsule it is seen to consist of an external firm portion termed the cortex.^ and of a soft pulpy dark-coloured internal substance called the medullary part. Dissection.—Having now disposed of all the viscera within the cavity of the abdomen proper, the student should, in the next place, direct his attention to the diaphragm—the great muscle which constitutes a mov- able partition between the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Stripping the peritoneum from its lower concave surface, clean the muscular fibres and the central tendinous expansion towards which they ascend. In making this dissection be careful to preserve the phrenic arteries which ramify upon this aspect of the diaphragm and also the nerves which accompany them. The Diaphragm is, after the heart, the most important muscle in the body. It forms the dome-shaped roof of the abdomen, and the highly arched and convex floor of the thorax. It is the chief muscle of inspiration. Each respiratory act is accompanied by a descent and ascent of its muscular part, and in this way the capacity of the thoracic cavity is alternately increased and decreased in the vertical direction. The vault or cupola of the diaphragm is higher on the right side than upon the left side of the body. In forced expira- tion it rises on the right side as high as the upper margin of the fourth rib, close to the sternum; whereas, on the left side, it only reaches the upper border of the fifth rib, The central portion of the diaphragm is tendinous. From this the fleshy fibres will be observed to radiate, and, at the same time, to arch downwards, so as to obtain attachment to the circumference of the lower aperture or outlet of the thorax, hi front., it takes origin from the back of the lowest segment of the sternum; behind., it springs by two partly fleshy and partly tendinous processes called the crura^ from the bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, and upon