PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 27 clavicle, first rib, and upper margin of the scapula, and through it pass from the neck the great axillary vessels and brachial nerves. The wide vaulted base of the armpit is closed by the axillary fascia. Contents of the Axilla.—The axillary artery and vein, with the great brachial nerves, constitute the most important contents of the armpit. Except at the summit of the space, they lie closely applied to the outer wall, and follow it in all the movements of the upper arm. Of the branches which spring from the axillary artery, two (viz., the thoracic axis and the long thoracic) are related to the anterior wall; two (viz., the posterior circumflex and subscapular) to the posterior wall; one, the superior thoracic, to the inner wall; and one, the anterior circumflex, to the outer wall. The thoracic axis artery arises high up in the space, and at once proceeds forwards through the costo-coracoid mem- brane. The lo7ig thoracic artery runs inwards along the lower border of the pectoralis minor. The posterior circumflex artery arises from the posterior aspect of the main trunk, and at once leaves the space by passing backwards through the posterior wall in the interval between the subscapularis and the teres major muscles. The subscapular artery runs inwards along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. The anterior circumflex, a small vessel, proceeds outwards upon the humerus, under cover of the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. The siperior thoracic artery, also a small vessel, ramifies upon the first intercostal space high up in the axilla. In making an opening into the axilla from below, for the purpose of allowing a collection of pus to escape, or for any other purpose, it is manifestly absolutely necessary to bear these relations in mind. The outer wall, where the great axillary vessels are, must be most carefully avoided ; so also must be the anterior and posterior walls, where there would be a risk of injuring the long thoracic and subscapular arteries. The inner wall, however, is, comparatively speaking, free from danger, as the small thoracica suprema is placed high up in the space. There- fore enter the knife with the sides of the blade towards the anterior