AR TICULA TIONS. i6i the forearm above the upper border of the interosseous membrane. The obUque ligament is often absent, and unless the utmost care be taken in removing the muscles in the preparation of the ligaments it is apt to be injured. Movements at the Radio-ulnar Joints.—At the radio-ulnar joints the movements of pronation and supination take place. When the limb is in a condition of complete supination the palm of the hand is directed forwards, the thumb outwards, and the two bones of the fore- arm are parallel, the radius lying along the outer side of the ulna. In the movement of pronation the radius is thrown across the ulna, so that its lower end comes to lie on the inner side and in front of it. Further, the hand follows the radius in this movement, and the dorsal aspect of both is directed to the front, and the thumb is turned in- wards. The dissector should analyse, as far as possible, in the part upon which he is engaged, the movements at the two radio-ulnar joints which produce these effects. At the same time it should be remembered that results obtained from a limb, in which the dissection has proceeded so far, are apt to be deceptive. In the case of the superior radio-ulnar joint the movement is simple enough. The head of the radius merely rotates within the orbicular ligament, and accuracy of motion is obtained by the cup-like depression on the upper end of the radius, resting and moving upon the rounded capitellum of the humerus. But it should be remembered that the head of the radius does not fit accurately upon the capitellum in all positions of the elbow-joint. In extreme extension and extreme flexion of the elbow it is only partially in contact with it. Therefore the semi-flexed condition of the elbow-joint places the radius in the most favourable position for free and precise movement at the superior radio- ulnar joint. At the inferior radio-ulnar joint the lower end of the radius revolves around the lower end of the ulna, and carries the hand with it. In this movement the triangular fibro-cartilage moves with the radius, and travels backwards on the lower end of the ulna in supination, and for- wards in pronation. But the question may be asked. Does the ulna move during pronation and supination ? When the elbow-joint is extended to its fullest extent the ulna remains almost immovable. When, however, pronation and supination are conducted in the semi-flexed limb, the ulna does move. A small degree of lateral movement at the elbow-joint is allowed, and the lower end of the ulna during pronation is carried slightly backwards and outwards, and in the reverse direction during supination. VOL. I.—11