PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 43 in this dissection. At the same time the pectoralis minor may be divided about an inch and a-half from its insertion, and the two parts thrown inwards and outwards. In doing this care must be taken of the internal anterior thoracic nerve which pierces its deep surface. When the con- tinuity of the axillary and subclavian vessels has been satisfactorily displayed they may be ligatured in two places at the level of the clavicle and then divided between the ligatures. By throwing the axillary vessels downwards the examination of the brachial nerves will be greatly facilitated. The dense connective tissue which surround these large nerves should be completely removed and the arrangement of the brachial plexus studied. The Brachial Plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the four lower cervical nerves and the greater part of the large anterior primary division of the first dorsal nerve. Above, the plexus is further reinforced by a small twig of communication which passes from the fourth to the fifth cervical nerve, whilst below, a similar connecting twig not infrequently passes upwards, in front of the neck of the second rib, from the second to the first dorsal nerve. The manner in which these great nerves unite to form the plexus is very constant. The fifth and sixth nerves unite to form an upper trunk; the seventh remains single and proceeds downwards as a middle trunk; whilst the eighth cervical and first dorsal fierves join close to the intervertebral foramina to constitute a third or lower trunk. A short distance above the clavicle each of these three trunks splits into an anterior and a posterior division. Raise the three anterior divisions on the handle of the knife, and it will be seen that all the three posterior divisions unite to form the posterior cord of the plexus, and, further, that the innermost of these divisions is much smaller than the other two. Of the three anterior divisions the two outer join to constitute the outer cord., whilst the innermost is carried downwards by itself as the inner cord of the plexus. From the three cords of the plexus are given off the branches which supply the upper limb. From the above description it will be seen that the plexus.