POPLITEAL SPACE. 193 They afterwards come to the surface at its posterior border. The in- ternal saphenous vein ascends on the surface of that muscle, whilst the posterior division of the internal cutaneous nerve courses downwards along the posterior border of the same muscle, and comes to the surface a short distance behind the internal saphenous nerve. Properly speak- ing, these structures belong to the thigh, but it is convenient to secure them at this stage. They will be afterwards noticed more fully. When the boundaries of the space are thoroughly defined and cleaned, the con- tents should be dissected by removing the soft fat which surrounds them. In dissecting the popliteal space, a mistake is often made in confining the dissection chiefly to the upper part, whereas the work should be carried out over the entire area at the same time. The heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, therefore, should be well separated from each other. It is here that the dissection becomes tedious, because the numerous branches of the nerves and vessels to the muscles on the back of the leg require time and care for their dissection. Contents of the Space.—The principal objects within the popliteal space are the popliteal artery and vein with their branches. They are placed deeply in the space, and in close contact with each other—the vein being superficial to the artery throughout. The two popliteal nerves—external and internal—also traverse the space. With the exception of the small sciatic nerve which descends immediately subjacent to the deep fascia, the inter^ialpopliteal 7ierve is the most super- ficial structure in the popliteal space. It lies over the popliteal vessels, and is readily found by separating the adi- pose tissue in the middle line of the space. The external popliteal nerve will be exposed by dissecting along the upper and outer boundary of the space. It lies under shelter of the biceps muscle. Both of these large nerves give off branches. The majority of these are easily secured and readily followed. The articular twigs, however, are very delicate, and great care is required in their dissection. In intimate relation to the popliteal artery is the geniculate branch of the obturator nerve. It descends in close apposi- tion with the coats of the artery. As the fat is being cleared out from the space the dissector will not fail to VOL. I.—13