THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT 335 The ligaments which hold the astragalus in its place are four in number. Three are attached to the os calcis and one to the scaphoid bone. They are : 1. An interosseous astragalo-calcanean. 2. An external lateral astragalo-calcanean. 3. A posterior astragalo-calcanean. 4. A dorsal astragalo-navicular. The interosseous ligament is by far the most powerful. It occupies the tarsal canal, and consists of strong fibres attached below to the groove between the articular facets on the upper surface of the os calcis, and above to the corre- sponding groove on the under surface of the astragalus. The external ligajnent is a short band of fibres which proceeds from the outer surface of the astragalus to the outer surface of the os calcis. It is parallel with the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, but it is placed on a deeper plane, and lies somewhat in front of it. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior border of the astragalus to the os calcis. It closes the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation behind. The dorsal astragalo-navicular ligament extends on the dorsum of the foot from the head of the astragalus to the scaphoid bone. It is thin and membranous. The two lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint help to keep the astragalus in its place. Dissection.—The astragalus should now be removed by dividing the various ligaments which hold it in place. By this proceeding the different parts which form the socket for the head of the astragalus will be brought into view ; and the posterior astragalo-calcanean articulation will be seen to be completely cut off from the anterior articulation by the interosseous astragalo-calcanean ligament. The great strength of this ligament can now be appreciated, and the facets on the head of the astragalus studied. These are :—(i) a convex surface which looks for- wards and articulates with the scaphoid ; (2) an elongated facet on its under aspect (sometimes divided into two), which rests upon the sustentaculum tali; and {3) between these, a triangular facet which