THE UPPER LIMB. 76 At the bend of the elbow it is crossed by the bicipital fascia, which, as previously stated, intervenes between it and the median-basilic vein. The basilic vein, in its lower part, is separated from the artery by the deep fascia. It does not lie immediately over it, but to its inner side (Figs. 21 and 22). Higher up, after the vein has pierced the fascia, it comes into closer relationship with the artery. Two venae comites are closely applied to the brachial artery, and the numerous connecting branches which pass between these veins cross over and under the vessel, so as to make the relationship still more intimate. Behind, the brachial artery is supported by a succession of structures, as we trace it from above downwards. First, it lies in front of the long head of the triceps, but here the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery are interposed ; next, it rests upon the inner head of the triceps; then upon the insertion of the coraco-brachialis; and lastly, for the remainder of its course, upon the brachialis anticus. With the exception of the musculo-cutaneous, all the large nerves of the arm will be seen to lie, for a certain part of their course, in relation to the brachial artery. The median accompanies it closely throughout its whole length. At first it lies in front, and to the outer side of the vessel; towards the middle of the arm it crosses superficially to the vessel; from this onwards it is placed along its inner side. The ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves lie close to its inner side, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and then they leave the artery. The former inclines back- wards, and, piercing the internal intermuscular septum, enters the posterior compartment of the arm. The internal cutaneous nerve, on the other hand, inclines forwards, and becomes superficial by piercing the brachial aponeurosis. The musculo-spiral^ for a very short distance, is placed behind the brachial artery, as it lies in front of the long head of the triceps, but soon it leaves the vessel by dis-