THE LOWER LIMB. 224 which it is formed, must next be considered. This entails the study of some of the structures concerned in the con- struction of the abdominal wall. Unfortunately it is not likely that at this period the dissection of the abdomen is in a sufficiently advanced state for their examination. A small portion of the inner part of the interval between Poupart's ligament and the portion of the innominate bone over which it stretches is filled up by Gimbernat's ligament. Immediately to the outer side of this the femoral vessels, enclosed within the femoral sheath, enter the thigh from the abdominal cavity, whilst to the outer side of these the interval is occupied by the ilio-psoas muscle. Three nerves also find their way into the thigh through this interval, viz., the crural branch of the genito-crural, which passes down- wards in the femoral sheath; the anterior crural nerve, which occupies the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles; and the external cutaneous nerve, which runs behind Poupart's ligament close to its iliac attachment. The arrangement of the aponeurotic lining of the ab- dominal cavity with reference to this interval of communica- tion between abdomen and thigh also requires attention. The lower part of the posterior wall of the abdomen, immediately above the thigh, is formed by the iliacus and psoas muscles. These are covered by that part of the aponeurotic lining of the abdomen which receives the name of the fascia iliaca. The anterior wall of the abdomen is lined in like manner by a portion of the general lining, termed the fascia transversalis. To the outer side of the femoral vessels these two fascial layers become continuous with each other, and at the same time are attached to the back of Poupart's ligament. It is behind this that the ilio- psoas, the anterior crural nerve, and the external cutaneous nerve, are carried downwards into the thigh. But the external iliac vessels (the femoral vessels in the thigh) with the genito-crural nerve lie in front of the fascia iliaca, or, in other words, within the fascial lining of the abdomen, and, as