FOREARM AND HAND. 117 transverse fibres pass across it in relation to its deep sur- face, and bind together its diverging slips. In the three intervals between the digital slips of the palmar fascia, the digital arteries and nerves, together with the corresponding lumbrical muscles, make their appearance. The connections of the four digital slips of the palmar fascia must be closely examined. Each lies in front of the two flexor tendons proceeding to the finger with which it is connected, and each will be observed to divide into two portions, so as to form an arch under which these tendons pass. This arch is connected with the flexor sheaths, which bind the tendons to the front of the finger, and the two portions which form it are carried backwards, to obtain attachment to the transverse metacarpal ligament, which stretches transversely across the front of the heads of the metacarpal bones. These relations can only be satisfactorily made out by dividing the arch, and slitting the slip of fascia in an upward direction. Fascial Compartments of the Palm.—Two weak septa proceed into the palm from the margins of the strong central portion of the palmar fascia. They join a laye. of fascia, which is spread out over the interosseous muscles and the deep palmar arch, and they thus subdivide the palm into three fascial compartments, viz., a central^ con- taining the flexor tendons, the lumbrical muscles, the superficial palmar arch, and the terminal branches of the median nerve; an inner^ enclosing the short muscles of the little finger; and an outer, enclosing the short muscles of the thumb. Dissection—V.^SsQ the central part of the palmar fascia. Divide its narrow upper part, throw it downwards, and finally remove it com- pletely. The supe7'ficial palmar arch is the most superficial of the structures now exposed. Trace the ulnar artery into it, and follow the digital branches which it gives off. The median and ulnar nerves must also be dissected. The muscular branches, which the median gives to the muscles of the thenar eminence, are especially liable to injury.