ABDOMEN. 5o8 in the substance of the gland to join the main duct. Close to the duodenum the pancreatic duct comes in contact with the common bile duct, and bending downwards they both pierce in company the coats of the descending part of the duodenum upon its posterior and inner aspect, and open into the gut by a common orifice. The Hepatic Ducts may next be examined (Fig. 114). Leaving the transverse fissure of the liver, the student will notice two ducts, called respectively the right and left hepatic ducts. These soon unite to form the hepatic duct, which in turn is shortly joined by the cystic duct of the gall-bladder. The junction of the cystic and hepatic ducts gives rise to the common bile duct, or the ductus communis choledochus, and this descends between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum to the right of the hepatic artery and in front of the vena portae. Passing behind the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, it ends by opening, as we have already seen, into the second part of the duodenum. Dissection.—The attention of the student should now be directed to the ending of the vagi nerves within the abdominal cavity, and also to the great epigastric or solar plexus of the sympathetic. For the proper display of these it is necessary to divide the gastro-duodenal artery, the common bile duct, and the portal vein at the level of the upper border of the first part of the duodenum, and then, having allowed the air to escape from the stomach and duodenum, to throw both, along with the pancreas, over to the left side of the body. The dissection of the solar plexus is a very tedious one, because mingled with the nerves, which are soft and easily broken, are several lymphatic glands and a quantity of tough areolar tissue. Pneumogastric or Vagi Nerves.—These enter the abdomen through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm. The left vagus will be found lying upon the anterior aspect of the gullet. Trace it downwards and notice that it breaks up into branches, the great bulk of which spread out upon the anterior wall of the stomach; a few, however, run to the right, along the lesser curvature, and establish communica- tions with the coronary plexus, whilst others ascend between