227 FRONT OF THE THIGH. anteriorly Pouparfs ligament., and posteriorly the pubic bone covered by the. pecfi?ieus muscle. The portion of the extra- peritoneal fatty tissue which closes the ring is called the sephmi crurale. On the abdominal surface of the septum crurale is the peritoneal lining of the abdominal cavity, and when examined from above both are seen to be slightly depressed into the opening so as to produce the appearance of a dimple. Femoral Hernia.—Femoral hernia is the name applied to a patho- logical condition which consists in the protrusion of a viscus or part of a viscus from the abdominal cavity into the region of the thigh. In its descent it passes behind Poupart's ligament along the crural canal, or innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. The arrangement of parts in connection with the interval between the innominate bone and Poupart's ligament has been carefully considered, and the dissector should therefore be in a position to understand how the occurrence of such a protrusion is rendered possible. To the inner side of the femoral sheath the interval is closed by Gimbernat's ligament, which, by its strength and firm connections, constitutes an impassable barrier in this locality. To the outer side of the femoral sheath a hernial pro- trusion is equally impossible. Here the fascia transversalis on the anterior wall of the abdomen becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca on the posterior wall of the abdomen, and along the line of union both are firmly attached to Poupart's ligament. It is in the region of the femoral sheath, then, that femoral hernia takes place. Its three compartments open above into the abdominal cavity, but there is an essential difference between them. The two outer, which hold the artery and the vein, are completely filled up by their contents. The crural canal, or innermost compartment, is not; it is much wider than is necessary for the passage of the fine lymphatic vessels which traverse it. Further, its widest part is the upper opening or crural ring. It has been noted that this is wide enough to admit the point of the little finger. Here then is a weak point in the parieties of the abdomen, and a source of weakness which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that in the former the distance between the iliac and pubic spines is proportionally greater, and in consequence the crural ring wider. Femoral hernia, therefore, is more common in the female. When attempts are made to reduce a femoral hernia, it is absolutely necessary that the course which the protrusion has taken should be kept constantly before the mind of the operator. In the first instance