POPLITEAL SPACE. 191 the semimembranosus. By pressing deeply into the interval between the hamstrings, the (injected) popliteal artery may be distinguished, and its pulsations can sometimes be dis- tinguished in this situation in the living subject. The tendon of the adductor magnus can be readily detected on the inner side of the limb, and should be traced downwards to the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. It can be rendered distinct by slightly flexing the knee-joint, and at the same time forcibly abducting the limb. The tuberosities of the femur may be seen and felt: the internal is the more prominent of the two. The articulation between the femur and the head of the tibia can very seldom be seen, but can always be felt. Below the knee-joint the head of the fibula forms a prominence on the outer side, and, by flexing the knee and pressing deeply between the fibula and the external condyle of the femur, the cord-like external lateral ligament can be distinguished. The external popli- teal nerve may be felt as it crosses the outer side of the neck of the fibula, just before it pierces the peroneus longus muscle. The two heads of the gastrocnemius form pro- minent objects in muscular subjects. The back of the thigh presents a smooth, rounded surface. In thin subjects indications of the belHes of the hamstring muscles may be seen. Reflection of Skin.—Before beginning the dissection a good-sized block should be placed under the knee so as to support the limb and render the muscles which bound the space tense. Incisions—(i) a vertical incision along the middle line of the limb, beginning about five inches above, and terminating about four inches below, the bend of the knee ; (2) a transverse incision at the upper end of the mesial incision ; (3) a transverse incision at the lower extremity of the mesial incision. The two transverse incisions should extend almost half-way round the limb. Two flaps of skin are thus mapped out, and these must be raised and thrown, the one inwards and the other outwards. Superficial Fascia—External Saphenous Vein—Branches of Small Sciatic Nerve.—The fatty layer upon which the