ABDOMEN. 400 On a dose inspection of the lower part of the external abdominal aponeurosis, the student will observe a number of cross fibres arching over its surface. These are called the intercoluiimar fibres^ and in some cases they are very strongly marked. They begin at Poupart's ligament close to the iliac spine, and arch upwards and inwards above the external abdominal ring. The function of these fibres is very evident, and the term inter columnar'^ is derived from the part which they play. They bind together the two pillars of the ring, and prevent their further separation or divarication. There is a direct continuity between the intercolumnar fibres and the external spermatic fascia which clothes the cord, and consequently, as we have already seen, the term " inter- columnar " is frequently applied to the latter. Reflection of the Obliquus Externus.—The external oblique muscle should now be reflected. Begin by detaching each digitation from the rib to which it is fixed. Between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the posterior border of the muscle will be found free ; some- times it is slightly overlapped by the latissimus dorsi, but in other cases a small portion of the internal oblique muscle can be observed in a triangular interval between them (trigonum Petiti, vide y>- h)- These points can only be seen by tilting the body slightly over on its opposite side. Raise the posterior border of the muscle from the subjacent in- ternal oblique, and divide the fleshy fibres which are inserted into the crest of the ilium close to the bone. Next divide the aponeurosis horizontally in a line leading from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer border of the rectus. The entire muscular portion, and the greater part of the aponeurotic portion of the external oblique can now be thrown forward. On approaching the outer border of the rectus, the dissector must proceed with care, because a little beyond this the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique fuses with the deep surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Define the line of union, and notice that it does not extend beyond the lower margin of the thorax. Above this the rectus is simply covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; the outer margin of the muscle is bare, and the hand can be freely passed between it and the costal cartilages. On the left side of the body, the parts below the horizontal line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the outer border of the rectus, and along which the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle has been divided, should be preserved intact for the special study of those