478 ABDOMEN. in the immediate vicinity of the oesophagus. It presents a right free margin, which extends from the transverse fissure of the Hver to the duodenum, and forms the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Over the greater part of its extent it is very thin; the two layers are fused, and often it is fenestrated. The two layers, however, become evident along its lines of attachment, and also in the portion adjoining its right free edge. The gastro-splenic omentu?n, composed of two peritoneal layers continuous with the two anterior layers of the great omentum, forms a short fold, which connects the fundus of the stomach with the spleen. Between its two layers the vasa brevia of the splenic artery gain access to the stomach. The Mesenteries of the Great Intestine.—Under ordinary circumstances these are three in number—viz., the transverse meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso-rectum. The transverse meso-colon stretches from the transverse colon to the posterior wall of the abdomen, to which it is attached along the lower border of the pancreas (PI. I.). It is an extensive fold, formed by the two posterior layers of the great omentum after they have enclosed the colon, and containing between them the blood vessels which go to this portion of the gut. It is longest in the mesial plane of the body, and shortens as it is traced to the right and to the left, until finally at the two flexures which mark the limits of the transverse colon it ceases to exist as a free fold. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long mesentery, composed of two layers of peritoneum, which binds the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. At its root it is narrow, but it widens out as it is traced to the gut, and it contains within it the blood vessels which supply this portion of the intestine. The line of attachment of its root is oblique, and extends from the highest point of the iliac crest across the iliac fossa to the left sacro-iliac articulation, where it crosses the iliac vessels (PI. I.). Towards both ends the fold rapidly shortens, and inferiorly it becomes continuous with the meso-rectum.