A R TIC ULA TIONS. 2. Three stout interosseous ligaments^ which occupy the intervals between the basal ends of the bones. 3. The transverse metacarpal ligament^ which connects the heads or distal extremities of the bones (p. 149). This ligament has been removed in the dissection of the inter- osseous muscles. The interosseous ligaments cannot be seen at present, but can be studied later on by separating the bases of the metacarpal bones from each other. Carpo-metacarpal Joints.—The metacarpal bone of the thumb articulates with the trapezium by a joint which is quite distinct from the other carpo-metacarpal articulations. A capsular ligament surrounds the joint, and is sufficiently lax to allow a very considerable range of movement. On the dorsal and outer aspects of the articulation it is specially thickened. It encloses a separate synovial membrane. The four inner metacarpal bones are connected to the carpus by palmar and dorsal ligaments, and by one inter- osseous ligament. Each of these metacarpal bones, with the exception of the fifth, possesses, as a rule, two dorsal ligaments and one palmar ligament. The articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone is also closed on the inner side by ligamentous fibres. The interosseous ligament springs from the contiguous lower margins of the os magnum and unciform, and passes to the inner side of the base of the third metacarpal bone. Dissection.—To display this ligament, divide the bands which connect the bases of the third and fourth metacarpal bones, and sever the dorsal ligaments which bind the two inner metacarpal bones to the carpus. The metacarpal bones thus set free can then be forcibly bent forward, when the ligament in question will come into view. Synovial Membranes of the Carpal, Carpo-metacarpal, and Intermetacarpal Joints.—The pisiform joint, and the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb, possess each a separate synovial membrane. The other carpal, and carpo- metacarpal and also the intermetacarpal articulations present