i88 THE LOWER LIMB. minimus and the tensor fasciae femoris. Begin by rotating the limb well outwards. Then seizing the gluteus maximus with left hand, pull it well outwards, and divide the glistening aponeurosis into which it is inserted for two or three inches in a downward direction. This will bring very conspicuously into view the upper part of the vastus externus. Next, grasp the cut edge of the fascia lata from which the gluteus maximus has been separated, and, dragging it forcibly out- wards, dissect in the interval between it and the gluteus medius. The tensor fascise femoris, which is intimately associated with this portion of the fascia lata, is pulled outwards with it, and the deep surface of the muscle clothed by a strong deep lamella of fascia comes into view. Very little dissection is required to expose its nerve of supply—a branch from the superior gluteal—which emerges from the anterior border of the gluteus minimus, and sinks into its deep surface. An artery will also be noticed ramifying on the deep surface of the tensor fasciae femoris; this is the ascending branch of the external circumflex. Seeing that the anterior borders of the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus are adherent, it is well to separate them from behind forward by introducing the fingers between their posterior borders. When the gluteus medius is completely isolated, it may be divided about two inches above the great trochanter of the femur, and the two portions thrown respectively upwards and downwards. A small bursa between the muscle and the upper part of the great trochanter will thus be brought into view, and the exact insertion of the tendon will be rendered evident. As the upper part of the muscle is raised, a number of vessels and nerves between it and the gluteus minimus will be exposed. These must be carefully cleaned and followed to their destinations. They are derived from the gluteal artery and the superior gluteal nerve. Gluteal Artery.—This is a large vessel which escapes from the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro- sciatic foramen above the level of the pyriformis. Immediately after its exit, it divides into a superficial and a deep division. The superficial division has been already seen during the reflection of the gluteus maximus. It is distributed to the deep surface of that muscle, and is placed between it and the gluteus medius. The deep division bifurcates close to its origin into a superior and an inferior branch; both of these lie between the gluteus medius and minimus. The superior branch