345 MALE PERINEUM. passing the cord once or twice round the instep, and then tying a knot upon the inner aspect of the foot. The subject must now be drawn towards the end of the table until the breech projects slightly over the edge. A block is intro- duced under the pelvis, and the cords carried downwards and fastened on each side to the leg of the table, so as to keep the lower limbs well apart from each other. A third cord must next be passed behind the flexed knee-joints, and then round the neck of the subject, and tightened so as to flex the thighs upon the abdomen. The body is retained for two days in this posture, and during this time the dis- sector of the abdomen is expected to dissect the perineutn. MALE PERINEUM. To prepare the part for dissection, a staff should first be introduced into the bladder. The rectum should then be 7noderately distended with tow, and the orifice of the anus stitched up. In passing the staff into the bladder, the dissector must stand upon the left side of the subject. Having smeared the instrument with oil, hold it lightly in the right hand and guide it gently along the upper and right wall of the urethra. When the point of the instrument reaches the triangular ligament—a strong aponeurotic structure which is stretched tightly across the pubic arch—depress the handle, but use no force. Should any difficulty be experienced, introduce the forefinger of the left hand into the rectum to guide the point of the instrument along the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra. The most dependent part of the scrotum should now be stitched to the prepuce of the penis, and dragging both penis and scrotum forwards upon the staff, they should be fixed by means of the twine to its handle. Lastly, fasten the handle of the staff to the cord which passes behind the flexed knee-joints of the subject. Boundaries of the Perineum.—The perineal space may be said to correspond to the inferior aperture or outlet of the pelvis. It is absolutely necessary, then, that the student should renew his acquaintance with this part of the skeleton before he begins the dissection. Let him obtain a pelvis with the ligaments in situ. He will observe that he has to