THE UPPER LIMB. i6 8. Subclavius muscle. 9. Nerve to the subclavius. 10. Brachial plexus and certain of the branches which proceed from it. 11. Intercosto-humeral nerve. 12. The nerve of Bell. 13. The axillary vessels and their branches. 14. Lymphatic glands. Four Days are allowed for this dissection. The arm must then be removed, so as to allow the dissector of the thorax to commence the dissection of the thoracic wall. The following Table may be found useful in regulating the amount of work which should be undertaken each day :— First Day. — [a] Surface Anatomy; {b) reflection of skin; (<r) cutaneous vessels and nerves of the chest, both on its anterior and lateral aspects ; {d) cleaning of the pectoralis major; {e) reflection of the axillary fascia ; (/) cleaning of that part of the serratus magnus which lies below the fourth rib. Second Day.—Dissection of the axillary space from below. This includes the boundaries and contents of the space, in so far as they can be got at without the reflection of any muscle. Third Day.—(a) Reflection of the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major ; (5) the costo-coracoid membrane and the structures piercing it ; (c) removal of the membrane ; {d) the dissection of the upper part of the axilla ; [e) reflection of the sternal part of the pectoralis major. Fourth Day.—{a) Reflection of pectoralis minor ; {b) general revision of the space and study of the axillary vessels and nerves ; {c) removal of the middle third of clavicle ; {d) subclavius muscle ; {e) brachial plexus; (/) nerve of Bell and serratus magnus muscle; {g) separation of limb from the trunk. Surface Anatomy.—The entire length of the clavicle can be felt under the skin, and as the student follows its curves with his finger, he can recognise the origins of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles along its anterior border. In a few instances these muscles may present an unbroken line of origin from the sternal to the acromial end of the bone, but in the vast majority of cases a triangular interval is left between them. This is marked on the surface by a shallow depression, termed the infra-