THE LOWER LIMB. i84 Dissection.—The student should flex the knee and raise it on a block in order to relax the great sciatic nerve. By pulling this great nerve- trunk outwards, the dissector will expose the nerve to the quadratus femoris lying directly upon the bone. Internal to this he will find the pudic vessels and nerve with the nerve to the obturator internus crossing the spine of the ischium. These structures require to be carefi.illy cleaned. The twig from the nerve to the obturator internus to the gemellus superior is especially liable to injury. The dissection will be improved by scraping off the periosteum from the small area of bone which is in relation to the above-mentioned vessels and nerves. The Pudic Vessels and Nerve, and the Nerve to the Obturator Internus, emerge from the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis, and are only exposed in the present dissection for a very short part of their course. They pass out of view by entering the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The nerve to the obturaioi"- i?iternus is placed most externally. It lies on the base of the ischial spine, and furnishes a twig to the gemellus superior. The internal pudic artery.^ with a companion vein on each side, crosses the tip of the spine. The internal pudic nerve is placed most internally, and lies on the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament close to its attachment to the spine. In some cases, how- ever, the pudic nerve unites in a plexiform manner with the nerve to the obturator internus, so that the whole, or a part, of it may lie external to the pudic vessels. External Rotator Muscles of the Thigh.—Under this heading we include the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. They are all inserted into or in the neighbourhood of the great trochanter of the femur, and they are applied to the posterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. The pyriformis arises within the pelvis from the three middle pieces of the sacrum, and slightly from the upper margin of the great sciatic notch of the innominate bone. The sacral origin cannot be seen at present, but the iUac origin should be made out. After passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the muscle is directed downwards,