585 PEL VIS. indicate the subdivision of the prostate into two lateral lobes. This is further marked by a median notch in the posterior aspect of the base. A third or middle lobe is also present It is a small piece interposed between the lateral lobes on the one hand, and the posterior aspect of the neck of the bladder and first part of the urethra on the other. This lobe can only be displayed by detaching the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia from the base of the bladder, and throwing them backwards. On tracing the slender common ejaculatory ducts, they will be observed to pass into the base of the prostate between the middle lobe and the lateral lobes. The middle lobe of the prostate is very variable in size, and may even be absent (Griffiths). Afiteriorly, the prostate is in relation to the pubo-prostatic ligaments and the dorsal vein of the penis; posteriorly, it rests upon the second part of the rectum; laterally, it is supported by the anterior fibres of the levator ani, which, from this relation, receive the name of levator prostatas; inferiorly, the urethra emerges from its apex, and the gland is in close relation to the superior layer of the triangular ligament ; whilst superiorly, its base embraces the neck of the bladder, and the common ejaculatory ducts are received into the interval between its middle and lateral lobes. Vesiculse Seminales.—These are two sacculated recep- tacles for the semen, which intervene between the base of the bladder and the second part of the rectum. Conical or somewhat pyriform in shape, each seminal vesicle presents a narrow inferior end in close proximity to the base of the prostate, and an expanded or blunt superior end in relation to the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum and the entrance of the ureter. Inferiorly, they are near to each other and the mesial plane, but they diverge widely as they proceed upwards, so that posteriorly they are separated by a consider- able interval. The vas deferens lies along the inner side of each. In length, the vesicle measures about two inches. By introducing a blow-pipe into the narrow anterior