AR TICULA TIONS. 155 Inferiorly the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint is prolonged downwards into the superior radio-ulnar joint, so that both articulations possess a single continuous synovial cavity. Movements at the Elbow-joint.—The movements at the elbow- joint must not be confounded with those that take place at the superior radio-ulnar joint. At the elbow-joint two movements, \Az., flexion, or forward movement of the forearm, and extension, or backward movement of the forearm, are permitted. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in flexing the forearm upon the upper arm at the elbow-joint are the biceps, the brachialis anticus, the pronator radii teres, and the supinator longus. The muscles which extend the forearm at this articulation are the triceps and anconeus. Dissection.—It is advisable to study the radio-carpal, or wrist-joint, before the articulations between the two bones of the forearm are examined. The anterior and posterior annular ligaments, together with the extensor and flexor tendons, should be completely removed from the wrist. No attempt, however, should be made to detach the extensor tendons from the back of the fingers and thumb. The short muscles of the thenar and hypothenar eminences must also be taken away. Radio-carpal Joint.—In the radio-carpal joint, the under surface of the radius, with a triangular plate of fibro-cartilage on its inner side, forms a shallow socket for the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. The ulna does not take part in this articulation, as the triangular fibro-cartilage is interposed between its lower end and the carpus. The ligaments which retain the opposed surfaces in con- tact with each other are four in number, viz.— 1. Anterior. I 3. Internal. 2. Posterior. I 4. External. The Anterior Ligament is strong and broad, and it is composed of fibres which run in different directions, although those which pass obliquely downwards and in- wards predominate. Above it is attached to the lower border of the inferior expanded extremity of the radius; and below, it is inserted into the bones which constitute the first row of the carpus, with the exception of the pisiform,