MALE PERINEUM. 353 allows of the distension of the rectum. Embedded in its midst are certain blood vessels and nerves. Crossing the fossa from its outer to its inner wall are the ififerior hcEinor- rhoidal vessels and nerve ; entering the fossa at its posterior part is the perineal branch of the foitrth sacral 7ierve ; turning round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, not far from the coccyx, is the perforatitig cutaneous branch of the fourth sacral nerve; whilst in the anterior part of the space will be found the commencement of the two superficial perineal nerves (Fig. 66). Dissection.—Begin by exposing the posterior margin of the gluteus 7/iaximus muscle. Take a point a short distance to the outside of the tuber ischii and another in the middle line about an inch above the tip of the coccyx, and cut boldly down through the superficial fascia, in a line between these points, until the fleshy fibres become visible. Winding round the lower margin of the muscle so as to gain its superficial aspect, there are a few small arteries and nerves. The arteries are derived from the inferior hcsjjwrrhoidal vessels, or from the sciatic artery, whilst the nerves are the perforating cutatieozis brajich from the fourth sacral nerve and some offsets from the small sciatic nerve. Both are destined for the supply of the skin in the lower part of the gluteal region. The perforating cutaneous nerve turns round the margin of the gluteus maximus close to the coccyx, whilst the cutaneous branches from the small sciatic nerve appear on the outer side of the tuber ischii. Having secured these vessels and nerves, clean the lower margin of the gluteus maximus, and then proceed to dissect the ischio-rectal fossa. If the subject is obese, a considerable quantity of fat may be removed at once without endangering the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. Take the surface of the gluteus maximus and the margin of the external sphincter as guides, and transfix the fat with the knife in this plane. The adipose tissue superficial to this plane may be removed en masse with safety. The Jmmorrhoidal vessels and nerve may be found by dissecting cautiously in the fat and carrying the knife in a transverse direction from the outer to the inner wall of the space. The branch from the fouHh sacral ner7)e appears by the side of the coccyx. Roof of the Space.—When the contents of the space are secured, continue to remove the fat from the fossa until its walls are fully displayed. On passing the finger upwards, its passage into the pelvis is prevented by the junction of VOL. I.—23