ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 477 The right lateral ligament will be brought into view by dragging the right lobe of the liver to the left and looking into the interval between the back part of its right surface and the diaphragm. It is a very small free fold, formed by the apposition of the two layers of the coronary ligament at the right extremity of the bare area of the liver (Figs. 102 and 112). The left lateral ligament is a much more extensive fold, which passes from the under surface of the diaphragm to the posterior part of the upper surface of the left lobe of the liver. It is triangular in form, and its basal margin is crescentic and free and directed to the left. When the liga- ment is traced to the right its upper layer is seen to become continuous with the left layer of the falciform ligament, whilst the lower layer becomes continuous with the front layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum (Figs. 102 and 112). Peritoneal Omenta.—We have seen that these are three in number—viz., the great omentum, the small omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The great omentum is by far the largest free fold of peritoneum in the abdomen. It is formed by the two layers which invest the stomach and first part of the duodenum passing downwards for a variable distance and then being folded backwards upon themselves to gain the transverse colon. In the adult, especially towards its lower free margin, the four layers have become blended, so that it is impossible to separate them. The cavity of the lesser peritoneal bag is carried downwards into it. In obese people the whole structure becomes loaded with fat. The small or gastro-hepatic omentum., formed of two layers, leaves the lesser curvature of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum, and proceeds upwards as a free fold towards the liver. Above it is attached along the transverse fissure of the liver, the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure of the liver (/.<?., that part which contains the obliter- ated ductus venosus) (Fig. i ii), and also to the diaphragm