THE LOWER LIMB. 330 Movements.—The movements which take place at the ankle-joint are—(i) flexion (dorsal-flexion); (2) extension (plantar-flexion); and (3) a very limited degree of lateral movement (abduction and adduc- tion) when the foot is fully extended. The two principal movements (flexion and extension) take place around a horizontal axis, which is not transverse, but which is directed outwards and backwards, so that it is inclined to the median plane of the body at an angle of about 60° (Krause). This horizontal axis passes through or near the interosseous canal between the os calcis and astragalus (Henle). As the articular cavity formed by the tibia and fibula, and also the part of the astragalus which plays in it, are broader in front than behind, it follows that the more completely the ankle-joint is flexed the more tightly will the astra- galus be grasped between the two malleoli. In the erect position the astragalus is held firmly in the bony socket, and portions of its articular surface project both in front of and behind the tibia. The centre of gravity is placed in front of the ankle-joint, and in this way the bones are kept firmly locked. When, on the other hand, the ankle-joint is fully extended (as when we rise on tip-toe) the narrower posterior part of the astragalus is brought into the socket, and thus a limited amount of lateral movement is allowed. In flexion the middle and posterior fasciculi of the external lateral ligament, the greater part of the internal lateral ligament and the posterior ligament are put on the stretch. In extension the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, the anterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament, and the anterior ligament, are rendered tense. The Muscles principally concerned in producing dorsi-flexion of the foot at the ankle-joint are the tibialis anticus and the peroneus tertius ; those which operate as plantar-flexors are the superficial muscles of the calf, the tibialis posticus, and the peroneus longus and brevis. TIBIO-FIBULAR JOINTS. The fibula articulates with the tibia by both its upper and lower extremity. Each of these joints is provided with a synovial membrane and possesses its own appropriate liga- ments. The interosseous membrane which occupies the interval between the shafts of the bones may be regarded as a ligament common to both joints. Dissection.—Preparatory to the examination of the tibio-fibular joints the foot must be removed by dividing the internal lateral ligament and