ABDOMEN. cava inferior, and both lie in close relation to the coeliac axis. When thoroughly defined, they will be observed to be of a very irregular shape, and to show little of the outline from which their name is derived. The upper extremity of each ganglion is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. The Coeliac Plexus.—This plexus of nerves connects the two semilunar ganglia with each other, and surrounds the coeliac axis so closely that it almost completely hides its trunk from view. It is reinforced by twigs from the right vagus and is joined by the small or second splanchnic nerve. Three secondary plexuses—viz., the coronary, the hepatic, and the splenic—take origin from the coeliac plexus. The coronary plexus accompanies the artery of the same name along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and dis- tributes twigs to both aspects of the viscus. The hepatic plexus follows the hepatic artery, the vena portse, and the bile' duct to the transverse fissure of the liver. It is joined by twigs from the left pneumogastric, and it gives origin to the pyloric, right gastro-epiploic^ superior pancreatico-duodenal^ and cystic plexuses^ which accompany the arteries of the same names. The splenic plexus is prolonged along the splenic artery to the spleen. It is joined by twigs from the right pneumo- gastric, and gives off branches to the pancreas and to the fundus of the stomach, and also the left gastro-epiploic plexus. Renal Plexus.—This consists of numerous nerves which spring chiefly from the outer part of the semilunar ganglion. Some will be found, however, coming from the coeliac, and others from the aortic plexus. The smallest or third splanchnic nerve^ when it is present, joins this plexus. Thus constituted, the filaments of the renal plexus run with the renal artery to the hilum of the kidney, and are distributed to the gland substance. Several twigs are likewise given to the spermatic plexus. A few scattered ganglia are usually found in connection with the renal plexus.