382 ABDOMEN. clitoris, and there gain insertion into a tendinous expansion which lies superficial to the dorsal vein. This fasciculus is comparable with the anterior fibres of the ejaculator urinae in the male, which embrace the circumference of the body of the penis. The Perineal Triangle.—The dissector should now observe that the three perineal muscles form the sides of a small triangle, the floor of which is constituted by the superficial layer of the triangular ligament. Perineal Body.—It has been already stated that the term " perineum " is confined by the obstetrician to the narrow interval betw^een the fourchette and the anus. Now that this part has been dissected, it will be seen to consist of an indefinite mass of fibrous and muscular tissue, which occu- pies the interval between the rectum and the vagina. This is known as the perineal body. Muscular tissue belonging to the sphincter ani, levatores ani and sphincter vaginae, together with the central point of the perineum, enter into its con- stitution. Dissection.—The sphincter vaginae should now be carefully raised from the surface of the bulb, and the erector muscle from the surface of the crus clitoridis. The transversus perinei muscle may be removed at the same time. Bulb of the Vestibule.—The bulb of the vestibule is now displayed. It consists of two oblong bodies, composed of erectile tissue, placed one on each side of the vestibule and entrance to the vagina. Somewhat narrow in front, they expand as they pass backwards, and each is invested by a fibrous capsule derived from the triangular ligament, upon the anterior surface of which they rest. Externally they present a rounded convex surface which is coated with the sphincter vaginae muscle, whilst internally, each erectile mass rests upon the deep surface of the mucous membrane of the vagina. In front of the urethra, between it and the clitoris, the two halves of the bulb are brought into direct communi- cation with each other by a small venous plexus called the