THE UPPER LIMB. inwards (flexion); (3) inwards towards the index finger (adduction) ; one continuous joint-cavity, and possess a single synovial membrane. This complicated and extensive synovial mem- brane may be seen to pass upwards in the intervals between the three bones of the first row (scaphoid, semilunar,, and cuneiform) as far as the interosseous ligaments. It lines the under surfaces of these, and is excluded by them from the radio-carpal joint. In a downward direction it may be traced between the four bones of the second row to the carpo- metacarpal joints of the four fingers, and from these it finds its way into the three intermetacarpal articulations. In some cases the interosseous ligament which connects the base of the third metacarpal to the os magnum and unciform shuts off the articulation of the unciform with the two inner metacarpal bones, and also the innermost intermetacarpal articulation from the general joint-cavity. In such cases a separate synovial membrane is provided for these articulations. Dissection.—To display the articular surfaces of the carpo-metacarpal articulations, the metacarpus should be detached from the carpus. The interosseous ligaments between the carpal bones of the second row, and also between the bases of the four inner metacarpal bones, can likewise be demonstrated by carrying the knife between the bones, and dividing the ligaments. Articular Surfaces.—The base of the metacarpal bone of the index will then be seen to be hollowed out for the reception of the trapezoid. On the outer side it likewise articulates with the trapezium, and on the inner side with the OS magnum. The base of the third metacarpal rests on the OS magnum alone. The base of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger rests upon the unciform, but also articulates slightly with the os magnum. The fifth meta- carpal bone articulates with the unciform. Movements of the Metacarpal Bones.—The opposed saddle-shaped surfaces of the trapezium and thumb-metacarpal allow very free move- ment at this joint. Thus the metacarpal bone of the thumb can be moved—(i) backwards and outwards (extension) ; (2) forwards and