479 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. The loop of intestine which is enclosed in sigmoid meso-colon when held up presents a somewhat pedunculated appearance, and cases of intestinal obstruction through the twisting of this loop of gut around its own base are not unknown. The uieso-redum will be examined in connection with the pelvis. The Mesentery Proper.—By this we mean the extensive fold of peritoneum by which the jejunum and ileum are suspended from the posterior wall of the abdomen. To obtain a proper view of the mesentery proper, it is necessary to throw up the great omentum and the transverse colon over the lower margin of the chest. It is attached along an oblique line, which extends from the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra downwards, and to the right into the right iliac fossa. This attachment is called the "root" of the mesentery, and as it is traced downwards it will be seen to cross obliquely the third part of the duo- denum, the aorta on the front of the spine, and the psoas muscle (PI. I.). The "root" of the mesentery is thus, com- paratively speaking, narrow (about six inches), but, as the fold approaches the coils of the small intestine, it widens out enormously, so that when it reaches the gut its width equals the length of the jejunum and ileum. This great width is not at first apparent, because the mesentery is thrown into folds like a goffered frill. The coiled condition of the gut is due to this arrangement. The two layers of the mesentery are not in apposition with each other. They are separated by a variable amount of fat, and also certain important structures which lie between them. These are (i) the superior mesenteric vessels and their branches to the jejunum and ileum ; (2) the superior mesenteric nerves; (3) great numbers of lymphatic glands and lacteal vessels ; (4) the gut itself. Occasional Peritoneal Fossae.—It is necessary to take notice at this stage of three little peritoneal pockets or blind recesses which are occasionally present in different positions on the posterior wall of the