240 THE LOWER LIMB. With the exception of the long saphenous, which is dis- tributed upon the inner side of the leg and foot, the distribution of the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural has been already examined (p. 216). The nerve to the pectineits arises a short distance below Poupart's ligament and turns inwards behind the femoral vessels to reach its destination. The branches to the sartorius are two or three in number. As a rule they take origin by a common trunk with the middle cutaneous nerve. The middle cutaneous fierve sometimes pierces the upper border of the sartorius. It divides into two branches which perforate the fascia lata about three or four inches below Poupart's ligament. The internal cutaneous ?ierve inclines downwards and inwards, and crosses in front of the femoral artery. It divides into an anterior and a posterior portion, which become superficial at different levels on the inner side of the limb. From the trunk of the nerve a few cutaneous twigs are given to the skin over the upper and inner part of the thigh. The anterior branch crosses the sartorius muscle and makes its appearance through the fascia lata in the lower part of the thigh, a short distance in front of the saphenous vein. The posterior branch runs downwards along the posterior border of the sartorius, and pierces the deep fascia on the inner side of the knee behind that muscle and the long saphenous nerve. A short distance below the middle of the thigh the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve forms, with filaments from the obturator nerve and the long saphenous nerve, a plexiform interlacement, the sartorial plexus, which is placed under the sartorius muscle, as it lies over Hunter's canal. The twig from the obturator nerve appears at the inner border of the adductor longus. The long saphenous nerve is the largest branch of the anterior crural. It springs from the posterior division of that nerve and extends downwards on the outer side of the femoral artery. Entering Hunter's canal with the femoral