ABDOMEN. 6oo backwards through the coccygeus muscle, and ends in the skin in this neighbourhood. Dissection.—The dissector should, in the next place, make out the distribution of the sympathetic nerves within the pelvis. These have, no doubt, been considerably injured in previous dissections, but those which remain must be carefully traced. Pelvic Plexuses of the Sympathetic.—The hypogastric plexus has been observed to end inferiorly by dividing into two lateral portions, which are prolonged downwards, one upon each side of the rectum. These are termed the pelvic plexuses^ and each consists of a dense mesh-work of sym- pathetic nerves. In addition to the branches from the hypogastric plexus, they receive numerous twigs from the sacral spinal nerves, more especially from the third and fourth, and the points at which these unite with the sym- pathetic filaments are marked by minute ganglia.' The pelvic plexuses also acquire branches from the sacral portion of the sympathetic cord. Prolongations from the pelvic plexus upon each side are sent along the various branches of the internal iliac artery. There are thus formed various secondary plexuses—viz., the vesical plexus., to the coats of the bladder, to the seminal vesicle and the vas deferens ; the hceinorrhoidal plexus to the rectum ; and the prostatic plexus to the prostate. The prostatic plexus proceeds forwards between the prostate and the levator ani, and sends twigs to the erectile tissue of the penis. These latter are termed the cavernous nerves. Gangliated Cord of Sympathetic.—The sympathetic cord as it enters the pelvis is considerably reduced in size. It proceeds downwards in front of the sacrum, along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. Above, it is continuous with the lumbar portion of the sympathetic cord, whilst below, it ends in the mesial plane in front of the coccyx in a minute ganglion, termed the ganglion impar, which acts as a bond of union between the cords of the two sides. The ganglia