494 ABDOMEN. lumbar region, immediately above the intertubercular plane of subdivision. The function of this valve is very obvious. It is so arranged that the free passage of materials from the ileum into the caecum is in no way impeded, but when the caecum becomes distended, and there is con- sequently a tendency to regurgitation, the frsena of the valve are put upon the stretch, and the free borders of the segments brought into firm contact. In this way reflux of the contents of the coecum into the ileum is effectually prevented. Dissection.—The coeliac axis, the artery which supplies blood to the stomach, liver, duodenum, spleen, and pancreas, should now be dis- sected. Pull the stomach downwards, and tear through the two layers of peritoneum which form the gastro-hepatic omentum. The artery will be found by dividing the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the lesser sac along the upper border of the pancreas. This dissection will be facilitated if the liver is first raised and then fixed in this position, by stitching it to the lower margin of the thorax. The Cceliac Axis (arteria coeliaca) is a short, wide vessel, which springs from the front of the aorta, between the two crura of the diaphragm, opposite the lower border of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and in immediate relation to the upper margin of the pancreas. It is directed hori- zontally forwards, and after a course of little more than half-an-inch divides into three large branches, viz.:—(i) the coronary; (2) the hepatic; and (3) the splenic, which radiate from each other like the spokes of a wheel. The coeliac axis is surrounded by a thick, matted plexus of nerves, called the cceliac plexus., which sends numerous nervous twigs with the three branches which spring from the axis. The coeliac plexus must be left undisturbed, and in following the coronary, hepatic, and splenic arteries the nerves which accompany them must be carefully preserved. The Coronary Artery (arteria gastrica sinistra), the smallest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, proceeds upwards and to the left, behind the lesser sac of peritoneum, to the oesophageal opening of the stomach. Here it changes its direction, enters between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic