343 THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT bones ;^ (5) a separate synovial lining for the joint between the first metatarsal and the internal cuneiform ; (6) a distinct synovial membrane for the articulations between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsal bones. This is prolonged forwards into the joint between the bases of these two metatarsals. Metatarso-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Joints.— These joints are constructed upon a plan almost identical with that of the corresponding joints of the upper ex- tremity. For the detailed description the student is therefore referred to p. 167. In the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe the thick mferior ligament or fibrous plate holds two large sesamoid bones, which slide upon grooved surfaces on the head of the metatarsal bone. Movements.—The movements which take place in the tarso-meta- tarsal, intermetatarsal, and in the majority of the tarsal joints, are simply gliding motions. In the joints between the astragalus and scaphoid, and also between the os calcis and the cuboid, movements of a wider range are possible. It is here that the movements of inversion and eversion of the foot chiefly take place. The first and the fifth metatarsal bones enjoy a considerable degree of mobility. The second metatarsal is so tightly grasped by the in- ternal and external cuneiform bones, and so firmly bound to the tarsus by its basal ligaments, that only a slight degree of movement is pos- sible. At the metatarso-phalangeal joints, flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction, are allowed ; whilst the inter-phalangeal joints only permit of flexion and extension. In the erect posture the parts of the foot which are chiefly concerned in transmitting the weight of the body to the ground are the heel, the head of the first metatarsal bone, and the shaft of the fifth metatarsal bone. Rather more than the middle third of the inner border of the ^ The external interosseous tarso-metatarsal ligament, which passes from the external cuneiform bone (frequently from the cuboid bone) to the base of the third metatarsal bone, separates the articulations of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones from the general tarsal articular cavity. Whether it proceeds from the external cuneiform, or from the cuboid, it always intervenes between the opposed articular facets on the base of the fourth metatarsal, and on the external cuneiform bone.