490 ABDOMEN. able distance round the wall of the gut ; others form com- plete rings around the interior of the intestine; whilst the third variety, and usually the least numerous, are arranged in a spiral manner, and take from one to three spiral turns around the wall of the gut (Brooks and Kazzander). Each fold consists of two layers of mucous membrane, with a little intervening areolar tissue derived from the submucous coat. The other coats of the intestine take no part in the formation of the valvulae conniventes. In the upper part of the jejunum the valvulae conniventes are strongly developed, and placed so closely together that the intervals between them are hardly greater than the thickness of one of the folds. As we follow them down, however, they gradually diminish in numbers, become more widely separated, more oblique in their direction, and not nearly so prominent. Approaching the middle of the ileum, they become exceedingly sparse and far between, and a little beyond this they usually disappear altogether. The chief function of the valvulse conniventes is to increase the ab- sorbing and secreting surface of the small intestine. Another peculiarity characteristic of the mucous lining of the small intestine is the presence of villi. These are minute projections of the mucous membrane, varying in length from one-fourth to one-third of a line. They occur in enormous numbers over the entire extent of the inner surface of the gut, not only upon the valvulae conniventes, but also in the intervals between them, and they give to the mucous membrane a velvety or fleecy appearance. To obtain a proper view of these minute villous processes it is necessary to float out a portion of the small intestine in water after it has been carefully cleansed from adhering mucus, and examine it with an ordinary pocket lens. If a portion of the upper end of the jejunum be placed side by side with a portion of the lower part of the ileum, and in- spected in this manner, the student will readily detect that the villi are, if anything, larger, and that they are decidedly