GLUTEAL REGION. 175 external oblique muscle at its attachment to the ilium. It usually crosses the iliac crest opposite a tubercle which projects from the outer lip of the crest about two and a half inches from the anterior superior spine, but it may emerge at any point between this tubercle and the anterior border of the iliac origin of the latissimus dorsi. The iliac branch of the last dorsal nerve pierces the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall, a short distance in front of the ilio- hypogastric branch, at a point situated from one to two inches above the iliac crest. Both nerves, after crossing the iliac crest, run downwards in the thick superficial fascia over the upper part of the gluteus medius, and spread out into a great number of fine twigs, which ramify over the insertion of the gluteus maximus. Certain of them reach downwards as far as the level of the great trochanter. The nerves which pass backwards over the insertion of the gluteus maximus are a few small branches of the pos- terior division of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh. They are found above the level of the great trochanter. The cutaneous twigs which hook round the lower margin of the gluteus maximus muscle, to reach the skin over this region, are a few offsets from the small sciatic nerve and the perforating cutaneous branch of the fourth sacral nerve. The former appear external to the tuberosity of the ischium, and are accompanied in some cases by twigs from the sciatic artery. The latter comes into view internal to the ischial tuberosity, and is accompanied by small branches of the inferior haemorrhoidal artery. These nerves can most readily be found by everting the lower border of the gluteus maxi- mus ; but in doing this, care must be taken ^ot to injure the trunk of the small sciatic nerve, as it passes from under cover of the gluteus maximus and runs vertically down the thigh. The Deep Fascia is brought into view by removing the remnants of the superficial fascia. The fatty tissue should be cleared away not only from the deep fascia as it is spread