236 THE LOWER LIMB. adductor muscles. If this furrow be traced upwards, it will be seen to run into the deeper, wider, and more apparent hollow, which has been described as Scarpa's space. Further, this intermuscular recess is converted into a canal, triangular on transverse section, by a strong fibrous mem- brane which stretches across it, and upon the surface of which the sartorius muscle is placed. The tunnel thus formed is called " Hunter's Canal." When the fibrous ex- pansion which closes in the canal is traced upwards, it is seen to become thin and ill-defined as it approaches Scarpa's triangle; when traced in the opposite direction, however, it becomes dense and strong, and opposite the opening in the adductor magnus it presents a thick, sharply-defined margin. It stretches from the tendons of the adductor longus and the adductor magnus on the inner side to the vastus internus on the outer side. In its lower part the posterior wall of the canal, where it is formed by the adductor magnus, presents a deficiency or aperture which leads backwards into the popliteal space. The appearance and construction of this aperture will be studied at a later stage. It is called the ope?ii?ig in the adductor magnus. The femoral vessels and the long saphenous nerve traverse Hunter's canal. In this part of its course the artery gives off some muscular twigs and the anastomotica magna branch. The femoral vessels leave the canal at its lower end by inclining backwards through the opening in the adductor magnus and entering the popliteal space. The long saphenous nerve, accompanied by the superficial branch of the anastomotica magna artery, escape from the canal by passing under cover of the lower thickened margin of the fibrous expansion which closes it in. They can be seen in the present stage of the dissection in this situation. Dissection.—The fibrous expansion which is stretched across Hunter's canal under cover of the sartorius muscle should now be divided, in order that the arrangement of the parts within the canal may be studied.