469 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. layer which we left upon the posterior wall of the abdomen. The other turns downwards over the third part of the duodenum, and is almost immediately led away from the posterior wall of the abdomen by the superior mesenteric vessels, which, spreading out in a fan-like manner, conduct it to the small intestine. Turning round the gut so as to invest it, the peritoneum proceeds backwards upon the posterior aspect of the superior mesenteric vessels to the spine. In this manner the mesentery proper is formed. The peri- toneum is now carried downwards over the posterior abdo- minal wall into the pelvis, where it may be traced over the rectum and bladder,^ to both of which it gives partial coverings, and then on to the anterior abdominal wall, where it becomes continuous with the layer which we left there. The tivo afiterior layers of the great omentum therefore proceed upwards to the under surface of the diaphragm, and there separate, the one passing forwards over the anterior portion of its under surface to reach the anterior wall of the abdomen, whilst the other is directed backwards over the posterior part of its under surface to reach the posterior wall of the abdomen. On their way up to the diaphragm these layers enclose the stomach, form the gastro-hepatic omentum, and partially enclose the liver. On the other hand, the ttvo posterior layers are directed backwards to the spine, and there separate. In passing back, they enclose the transverse colon, and form the transverse meso-colon. The one layer then ascends to become continuous with the layer on the posterior abdominal wall. The other layer passes down- wards, doubles upon itself to enclose the small intestine and form the mesentery proper, enters the pelvis, and then reaches the anterior abdominal wall. A reference to Fig. 98 will show that the peritoneal sac is ^ In the female it also gives a covering to the uterus, but the disposi- tion of the peritoneum in the pelvis, both male and female, will be fully described in connection with the pelvic viscera.