ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 535 and posterior attachments of the diaphragm are therefore in this manner marked off from each other. The crura of the diaphragm are two thick fleshy pro- cesses which descend upon the bodies of the upper lumbar vertebra, tapering as they proceed downwards, and finally ending in pointed tendinous extremities. The right crus is the larger and longer of the two. It takes origin from the bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, and the intervertebral discs which intervene between them. The left crus springs from the left side of the bodies of the first two lumbar vertebrae. It is much smaller, and lies upon a posterior plane to the right crus. Follow the crura up- wards ; opposite the last dorsal vertebra they will be observed to be connected across the middle line by a strong fibrous band which arches over the aorta. From the upper border of this fibrous arch fleshy fibres arise which join both crura, and on this account we give it the name of ligaine7itum arcuatum medium} Above this level the fleshy fibres of the crura diverge and ascend to join the posterior border of the central tendon. The innermost fibres of each crus, however, decussate so as to separate the aortic from the oesophageal openings. The decussating fasciculus of the right crus is always the larger of the two, and moreover it usually passes in front of the decussating fasciculus of the left crus. Central Tendon.—The central tendon is exceedingly strong. It is composed of strong tendinous bundles run- ning in different directions, and closely woven together so as to give it a plaited appearance. This is well seen by an It may be regarded as a universal law that wherever an artery pierces the origin or insertion of a muscle, and comes to lie between bone and muscular fibres, it is protected by a fibrous arch. Of this nature is the arch in question, and also the fibrous arch thrown over the superior profunda artery on the back of the humerus, and the fibrous arches in the adductor magnus for the passage of the perforating arteries, and the femoral artery itself.