547 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. studied (p. 440). On the outer side of the iHac vessels it has been seen to become continuous with the fascia trans- versalis, and, at the same time, to be attached to Poupart's hgament; whilst behind these vessels it is carried down- wards into the thigh, to form the posterior wall of the femoral sheath. Dissection.—T\\Q muscles should now be cleaned and their attach- ments defined ; but, in doing this, certain points must be attended to. The inner portion of the fascia iliaca must be carefully preserved, in order that its relation to the pelvic fascia may be afterwards made out. In the case of the psoas muscle, great care must be taken not to injure— (i) the sympathetic cord, which lies along its anterior margin ; (2) the genito-crural nerve, which runs downwards in front of it; (3) the ilio- inguinal, and the external cutaneous nerves, which appear at its outer border, and the anterior crural nerve, which lies in the interval between it and the iliacus muscle. In the case of the quadratus lumborum, bear in mind that the last dorsal nerve runs outwards in front of this muscle, close to the lower border of the last rib, and that the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves cross it obliquely at a lower level. Quadratus Lumborum.—This muscle arises from the ilio- lumbar ligament and from the crest of the ilium behind it. It likewise receives two or three slips from the transverse processes of a corresponding number of the upper lumbar vertebrae. Narrowing slightly as it passes upwards, it is inserted into the inner half of the last rib, behind the ligamentum arcuatum externum, and by four tendinous slips into the tips of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae. The Psoas Magnus.—This muscle has three distinct modes of origin from the side of the vertebral column :— (i) by five fleshy processes from the anterior surfaces and lower borders of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae close to their roots ; (2) by five slips, each of which arises from the intervertebral disc and the contiguous margins of the bodies of two vertebrae—the first slip springing from the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebras and the intervening disc, and the last slip from the two lower lumbar vertebrae and their intervening disc; (3) from