THE UPPER LIMB. Dissection.—The extensor tendon should now be raised from the dorsal aspect of the joint. By this proceeding the joint is opened, and a demonstration is afforded of the fact that the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are destitute of dorsal ligaments. A synovial membra?ie lines the deep surfaces of the liga- ments in each joint, and also the deep surface of the extensor tendon, as it passes over the articulation and takes the place of a dorsal ligament. Movements at the Metacarpo-phalangeal Joints.—The move- ments of the first phalanx at these joints are—{a) flexion, or forward movement; {b) extension, or backward movement; {c) abdiictiojt; and {d) addtiction. During flexion of the fingers, the first phalanx travels forwards with the thick palmar ligament upon the head of the metacarpal bone. The interosseous and lumbrical muscles are chiefly instrumental in producing this movement. The first phalanges of the fingers in the movement of extension can only be carried backwards to a very slight degree beyond the line of the metacarpal bones. The extensor co?/i7nunis and the special extensors of the index and little finger are the muscles which operate in this case. Abduction and adduction are movements of the first phalanx away from and towards a line prolonged downwards through the middle finger, and are seen when the fingers are spread out and again drawn together. The abductor viinimi digiti and the dorsal interosseous muscles act as abductors of the fingers at these joints, whilst the palmar interosseous muscles operate as adductors of the little, ring, and index fingers. In the case of the middle digit, the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles act alternately as abductors and as adductors. In connection with the movements of abduction and adduction it should be noticed that in the extended position of the fingers they are very free ; but if flexion be induced, the power of separating the fingers becomes more and more restricted, until it becomes absolutely lost when the hand is closed. An examination of the lateral ligaments will afford the explanation of this. These "are attached far back on the metacarpal bones, so as to be much nearer to their inferior ends than to their palmar aspects " (Cleland). Consequently, whilst they are comparatively lax in the extended position of the fingers, the further flexion advances the tighter they become, and in this way they interfere with the lateral move- ments of the first phalanges. The first phalanx of the thumb has only a limited range of movement at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint.