467 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. coils of the small intestine. This omentum is composed of four layers—two anterior layers and two posterior layers, and these are continuous with each other at the lower free margin of the fold. Trace the two anterior layers upwards. They lead to the greater curvature of the stomach, and here they separate from each other so as to enclose this viscus between them—one passing in front and the other passing behind it. The smooth glistening appearance presented by the surface of the stomach is due to the peritoneal coating which it thus acquires. At the lesser curvature of the stomach the two layers come together, and are prolonged upwards to the liver as a distinct fold, which receives the name of the gastro-hepatic or lesser oiimituvi. Reaching the transverse fissure of the liver the two layers again separate, this time to enclose the liver. The one layer is directed forwards over the under surface of the organ round its anterior border, and then onwards over its anterior and superior surfaces. On reaching the point where the liver and diaphragm are in contact, it is reflected on to the diaphragm, and proceeds forwards upon its under surface to reach the anterior wall of the abdomen. The other layer turns backwards, and, clothing the lobulus Spigelii on the posterior surface of the liver, is reflected on to the back part of the diaphragm, and turns downwards on the posterior wall of the abdomen. We shall leave these layers for a little and trace the two posterior layers of the omentum. For this purpose it is necessary to turn up the great omentum over the ribs. Its two posterior layers in pro- ceeding upwards come to the transverse colon. This they enclose, the one passing in front and the other behind, and coming in contact with each other again on the other side of the gut, they are prolonged backwards to the posterior wall of the abdomen, as the transverse ineso-colo7i. They reach the back wall of the abdomen at the lower border of the pancreas, and here they separate. The one layer turns upwards over the pancreas to become continuous with the