THE UPPER LIMB. 78 of the coraco-brachialis, and the dissector should not be satisfied until he has traced it into the medullary foramen of the bone. When the nutrient artery is not seen in its usual position, it will probably be found in the dissection of the back of the arm, taking origin from the superior profunda. Henle describes this as the normal arrange- ment.i The anastoniotica magna arises about two inches above the bend of the elbow, and runs inwards upon the brachi- alis anticus. It soon divides into a small anterior and a larger posterior branch. The anterior branch is carried downwards in front of the internal condyle of the humerus in the interval between the brachialis anticus and the pro- nator radii teres. It anastomoses in this situation with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery. The posterior branch pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and will be seen later on in the posterior compartment of the arm. The two Internal Cutaneous Nerves.—Very little more requires to be said about these nerves. Their origin within the axilla has already been noted, and they have been traced to their distribution from the points where they pierce the investing brachial aponeurosis. It only remains for the dissector to examine them in that part of their course in which they lie under cover of the brachial aponeurosis. It will be observed that they both lie along the inner side of the brachial artery. The nerve of Wris- berg, or lesser internal cutaneous nerve gives off, as a rule, no branches in this situation, except one or more twigs of ^ Of 8i humeri recently macerated in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, 25 were found to possess two nutrient foramina, one at the outer border of the musculo-spiral groove, and the other below the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; in 42 the foramen below the insertion of the coraco-brachialis was the only one present, but it varied somewhat in position, being in 4 cases within two and a-half inches of the lower margin of the trochlea; in the remaining 4 humeri there was one foramen situated in the musculo-spiral groove (Brooks.)