SHO ULDER—SCAPULAR REGION. 59 the capsular ligament: in other words, it is directly con- tinuous with the synovial membrane which lines the joint. This can readily be ascertained by making an incision through its wall. An instrument can then be passed into the joint. Dissection.—The suprascapular artery and nerve must now be followed to their distribution on the dorsum of the scapula. They have already been traced to the upper border of the scapula. Divide the infraspinatus muscle about an inch and a half from its insertion, taking care not to injure the subjacent vessels. Pull the muscle cautiously backwards, and its nerve of supply with the terminations of the suprascapular and dorsalis scapulae vessels will be exposed. Treat the supraspinatus muscle in a similar manner (Fig. 13). The Suprascapular Artery {a. transversa scapulae) enters the supraspinous fossa by passing over the ligament which bridges across the suprascapular notch. It divides, under cover of the supraspinatus muscle, into a supraspinous and an infraspinous brafich. The former supplies the supra- spinatus muscle, and gives off the chief nutrient artery to the scapula ; the latter proceeds downwards in the great scapular notch, and under cover of the spino-glenoid ligament, to reach the deep surface of the infraspinatus muscle to which it is distributed. At the upper border of the scapula the suprascapular artery gives off a branch (the subscapular) which enters the subscapular fossa under cover of the subscapularis muscle. The Suprascapular Nerve accompanies the artery of the same name, but it enters the supraspinous fossa by passing through the suprascapular notch, under cover of the supra- scapular ligament. It supplies the supraspinatus, and ends in the infraspinatus muscle. It usually sends two articular twigs to the posterior aspect of the shoulder-joint, viz., one while in the supraspinous fossa, and the second as it lies in the infraspinous fossa. Dorsalis Scapulae Artery {a. circumflexa scapulae).—This vessel has already been observed to arise from the sub-