ABDOMEN. 362 aspect of the tuber ischii, and is inserted by an aponeurotic expansion into the lower and outer surface of the anterior portion of the crus. Perineal Nerve.—This is one of the two terminal branches of the pudic nerve. It supplies twigs to the skin, to the muscles of the perineum, and to the bulb of the penis. The cutaneous branches have already been followed out. They are the posterior and anterior superficial perineal nerves. Muscular twigs, occupying a deeper plane, may be traced to each of the three superficial perineal muscles and to the levator ani, whilst a few minute offsets pierce the triangular ligament to supply the compressor urethrse muscle. The nerve to the bulb is a small branch which breaks up into filaments which enter the hinder part of the corpus spongiosum. Perineal Triangle.—If the superficial perineal muscles be now examined in regard to the relations which they hold to each other, the student will observe that they constitute the boundaries of a small triangular space upon each side of the middle line. The base of the triangle is formed by the transversus perinei; externally it is limited by the erector penis, and internally by the ejaculator uringe. Let the student now place the point of his finger within this space and press upwards and backwards. He will perceive that it rests upon a strong resisting membrane. This is the triangular ligament, which therefore forms the floor of the space. Dissection.—To bring the triangular ligament of the urethra fully into view, it is necessary in the first place to remove the superficial perineal muscles. When this is done the three divisions of the root of the penis are exposed to view, and their manner of attachment (which has already been described, p. 358) can be studied. Detach in the next place the crura penis from the sides of the pubic arch, and turn them aside. This must be affected with care, so as not to destroy the attachment of the ligament to the sides of the pubic arch, or to injure the pudic artery and dorsal nerve of the penis which pierce the ligament in its upper part.