THE UPPER LIMB. 134 forwards in front of the interosseous spaces and unite near the roots of the fingers, with the corresponding digital arteries from the superficial palmar arch. Sometimes one or more of these branches enlarge and take the place of the corresponding digital arteries. Arteria Radialis Indicis, and Arteria Princeps Pol- licis.—These arteries spring from the radial as it proceeds forwards between the first and second metacarpal bones. To bring them into view, the adductor transversus, and the adductor obliquus pollicis must be detached from their origins and turned outwards. The radial artery is now seen coming forwards between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. The arteria radialis iiidicis runs downwards between the adductor transversus pollicis and the first dorsal interosseous muscle to the radial border of the index, along which it proceeds as its outer collateral branch. The arteriapri7icepspollicis takes a course downwards and outwards under cover of the adductor obliquus pollicis, and gains the front of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Here it lies behind the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and divides into the two collateral branches of the thumb. These branches make their appearance, in the interval, between the adductor obliquus and the superficial head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and are carried forward on either side of the tendon of the long flexor. Surgical Anatomy of the Palm and Fingers.—When an abscess forms in the middle compartment of the pahn early surgical interference is urgently called for. The dense palmar fascia effectually prevents the passage of the pus forwards, whilst an easy route upwards into the forearm is offered to it by the open carpal tunnel, through which the flexor tendons enter the palm. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that before this can occur the surgeon should make an opening in the palm by means of which the pus can escape. In making such an incision it is a matter of the utmost importance to bear in mind the position of the various vessels which occupy the middle compartment of the palm. As we have stated, the level to