407 ABDOMINAL WALL. spending portion of the transversalis. At this level these two muscles are always closely connected, and in some cases they may be even found to be partially blended. The cretnaster muscle should also be reflected from the spermatic cord. This can best be done by making a longitudinal incision along it. Entering the deep surface of the cremaster is a small branch of the deep epigastric artery and the genital branch of the genito-crural ne^-ve. These constitute its vascular and nervous supply, and must, if possible, be secured. Now clean the transversalis muscle, and dissect out the vessels and nerves which lie upon it. Nerves of the Abdominal Wall.—Running forwards upon the transversalis muscle, the dissector will find the following nerves :— I. The anterior portions of the ^ The anterior primary divisions The six loiver intercostal nerves issue from the anterior ends of the six lower intercostal spaces, and then proceed forwards, between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, to the outer border of the rectus. Here they disappear by piercing and passing within the sheath of this muscle. In a future dissection they will be observed sinking into the substance of the rectus, supplying it with twigs, and then turning forwards to pierce the sheath a second time. They end on the front of the abdomen as the anterior cutaneous nerves. Midway between the spine and the linea alba they give off the lateral cutaneous nerves. They likewise supply offsets to the transversalis and two oblique muscles. Minute arteries accompany these nerves. The last dorsal nerve has the same relation in the abdominal wall as the preceding nerves. It gives off the same branches, but in addition supplies a branch to the pyramidalis muscle. Its lateral cutaneous or iliac branch., however, goes to the skin of the buttock. The ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal are the two lowest of the lower seven dorsal nerves. 3. The ilio-hypogastric nerve. 4. The ilio-inguinal nerve. ^ From the anterior primary divi- / sion of the first lumbar nerve.