ABDOMEN. 358 two preceding nerves, but to their outer side. Trace it forwards and backwards. The long pudendal communicates with the inferior hemor- rhoidal nerve, and also with the posterior superficial perineal nerve. The long pudetidal nerve is derived from an altogether different source. It is a branch of the small sciatic nerve, and pierces the deep fascia of the thigh a short distance in front of the tuber ischii, and about an inch and a-half to the outer side of the margin of the pubic arch. As it proceeds forwards it inclines inwards, and, piercing the attachment of the superficial fascia to the margin of the pubic arch, it accompanies the other vessels and nerves to the scrotum, the outer and front part of which it supplies. Dissection.—Divide the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, and throw them aside. Root of the Penis.—At this stage of the dissection the student should consider the position of the triangular liga- ment, and the relation which it bears to the root of the penis. The triangular ligament is a strong aponeurotic membrane which stretches across the pubic arch, and sub- divides the urethral portion of the perineum into a super- ficial and a deep area. The root of the pe?iis is placed altogether in front of it, in the superficial area of this region. With the handle of the knife clear away for a short distance the loose tissue which surrounds the body of the penis. The body of the penis is then seen to consist of three cyhndrical masses which are chiefly composed of erectile tissue, and are placed in close apposition with each other. These are the two corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum. The corpora cavernosa constitute the chief bulk of the organ. They are placed side by side and form the dorsum and sides of the penis. They are partially blended with each other along the middle line,—indeed the only surface indication of the double nature of this portion of the penis are two median longitudinal grooves which run one along its upper and the other along its lower aspect. The corpus