34 THE UPPER LIMB. soon leaves the artery, by deviating outwards and enter- ing the substance of the coraco-brachiaUs muscle. Its branch of supply to that muscle should be secured at this stage. In this part of its course the axillary artery gives off three branches—the subscapular., which has already been found; the posterior circumflex., which arises from its pos- terior aspect; and the anterior circumflex^ a small vessel which runs outwards under cover of the coraco-brachialis, and is apt to be injured in cleaning the nerves. Dissection.—The axillary space must now be dissected from the front. This is done by reflecting the clavicular part of the pectoralis major. The sternal portion of the muscle is not to be disturbed at present. Divide the clavicular part close to its origin from the clavicle, and throw it downwards and outwards. This must be done with care, because some twigs from the external anterior thoracic 7ierve, and also some of the pectoral thoracic branches of the thoracic axis artery, enter its deep surface. These must be cleaned and preserved. Costo-Coracoid Membrane.—A space or gap between the clavicle and pectoralis minor is now exposed. This gap, however, is closed by the costo-coracoid membrane, the connections of which must be studied. Trace it outwards to its attachment to the coracoid process, and inwards to its attachment to the first rib. Above it constitutes the sheath of the subclavius muscle by splitting into an anterior and a posterior layer. These, passing upwards, enclose the muscle, and are attached, the one to the anterior border of the clavicle, and the other to the posterior border of the bone. But how can the two layers be demonstrated ? Divide the anterior lamina transversely close to the clavicle, and throwing it downwards, pass the handle of the scalpel upwards behind the muscle. The posterior attachment can in this manner be verified, and at the same time the nerve to the subclavius will be seen sinking into the deep surface of the muscle. Observe that the density of the mem- brane diminishes almost immediately below the subclavius,