THE UPPER LIMB. 138 cover of the posterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior is closely associ- ated with the preceding muscle. It arises by the common extensor tendon from the external condyle of the humerus ; it also derives fibres from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the investing deep fascia, and the fibrous septa in connection with it. The tendon of the muscle accompanies that of the long radial extensor under cover of the posterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the third metacarpal bone immediately beyond the root of its styloid process. The Extensor Communis Digitorum takes origin by the common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus. The deep fascia and the intermuscular septa in relation to it also contribute fibres. Its fleshy belly in the lower part of the forearm sends out four tendons, which pass under cover of the posterior annular ligament. On the dorsum of the hand they diverge and proceed onwards to the four fingers. Their arrangement and attachments on the dorsum of the hand and fingers will be afterwards considered. The Extensor Minimi Digiti is a slender fleshy belly which at first sight appears a part of the preceding muscle, but its tendon passes through a special compartment in the posterior annular hgament. It arises in common with the extensor communis digitorum. The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris arises, by means of the common extensor tendon, from the outer condyle of the humerus, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the extensor minimi digiti. In the middle third of the forearm it may also receive some fibres from the strong fascial layer which binds it to the posterior border of the ulna. The tendon does not become free from the fleshy fibres until it approaches close to the wrist. It occupies the groove on the posterior aspect of the