SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION. 53 Subacromial Bursa.—This is a large bursal sac which in- tervenes between the acromion process and deltoid above, and the upper aspect of the capsule of the shoulder-joint below. It facilitates the play of the upper end of the humerus with its capsule, on the under aspect of the acromion process and deltoid. Pinch a portion of it up with the forceps and make an incision into it.^ The finger may then be introduced into its interior and its extent and connections explored. In some cases it is divided by internal partitions into two or more chambers or loculi. Dissection.—The branches of the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve should now be dissected out on the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. Circumflex Vessels. — The posterior circumflex artery (a. circumflexa humeri posterior) has been already ob- served to arise within the axilla from the posterior aspect of the axillary artery a short distance below the sub- scapular branch. It at once proceeds backwards through the quadrilateral space, and winding round the surgical neck of the humerus, it is distributed in numerous branches to the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. Several twigs are also given to the shoulder-joint and the integument. It anastomoses with the acromial branch of the thoracic axis and the anterior circumflex artery, and also by one or more twigs which it sends downwards to the long head of the triceps, with the superior profunda branch of the brachial. The termination of the anterior circumflex artery {a. cir- cumflexa humeri anterior) can now be more satisfactorily studied, and its anastomosis with the posterior circumflex estabhshed if the injection has flowed well. By this anasto- mosis the arterial ring which encircles the upper part of the shaft of the humerus is completed. If the wall of the bursa be quite entire a blowpipe may be thrust into it. It can then be distended, and if unilocular it may be inflated to about the size of a hen's egg. It varies, however, much in size in different individuals.