244 THE LOWER LIMB. femur. It extends in an upward! direction as far as the insertion of the gluteus maximus, whilst below it reaches the external tuberosity of the lower end of the femur. Immediately above the external condyle of the femur it is pierced by the superior external articular vessels and nerve. The internal intennusaclar septum is interposed between the adductors and the vastus internus, and should also be examined. It is thin in comparison with the external septum. f Quadriceps Extensor Cruris (quadriceps femoris).—This muscle is composed of four portions. The rectus femoris, which is placed on the front of the thigh, is quite distinct from the others, except at its insertion ; the vastus externus, the crureus and the vastus internus clothe the shaft of the femur on its outer, anterior and 'nner aspects, and are more or less blended with each other. The Rectus Femoris arises by two tendinous heads of origin, which may be exposed by dissecting deeply in the interval between the iliacus and tensor fasciae femoris. The anterior or straight head springs from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; the posterior or reflected head arises from a marked impression on the outer surface of the ilium, immediately above the upper part of the rim of the acetabulum, and is connected both with the capsule of the hip-joint and the deep lamina of the ilio-tibial band of fascia lata. The two heads of origin of the rectus femoris join at a right angle immediately beyond the margin of the acetabulum, and form a strong flattened tendon, which gives place to a fusiform, fleshy belly. The tendon of origin spreads out on the anterior surface of the muscle in its upper part in the form of an aponeurosis. About three inches above the knee-joint the rectus femoris ends in a strong tendon of insertion, which is prolonged for some distance upwards on its deep surface in the form of an aponeurosis. As it nears the patella, this tendon is joined by the other tendons of the quadriceps, and through the