POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 285 dissection of the popliteal space. The nerviis co)nnninica?is tibialis., a branch of the internal popliteal, descends in the interval between the two heads of the gastrocnemius and pierces the deep fascia midway between the knee and ankle. A short distance below this it is joined by the nervus communicans fibularis, and then acquires the name of external saphenous. On the outer side of the posterior aspect of the leg is the nervus conwiunicans fibularis, a branch of the external popliteal. It descends upon the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and, perforating the deep fascia, unites with the nervus communicans tibialis a short distance below the middle of the leg, to form the external saphenous nerve. The latter has already been traced behind the external malleolus to the outer margin of the foot and little toe. Deep Fascia.—A continuous view of the deep fascia on the back of the leg can now be obtained by removing the remains of the superficial fat. Observe how thin and transparent it is in the upper part of the leg, and how it thickens as it is followed downwards towards the heel. At no point, however, is it very dense. As it passes over the interval between the heel and the internal malleolus it forms the internal a?inular ligament. It is continuous above with the popliteal fascia, and a short distance below the knee, on the inner side, it receives a reinforce- ment of fibres from the tendons of the sartorius, the gracilis, and the semitendinosus. Dissection.—Divide the fascia along the middle line and turn it out- wards and inwards. Leave the internal annular ligament intact. On raising the inner part of the fascia it will be seen to be attached to the internal border of the tibia. In fact, it blends with the periosteum covering the inner subcutaneous surface of this bone. On turning the outer portion of fascia outwards it will be observed to be directly con- tinuous with the fascia on the front of the leg : further, the strong inter- muscular septum (posterior peroneal septum) which passes in to join the external border of the fibula between the peroneal muscles and the