579 PEL VIS. of the second part of the rectum. It is not in actual con- tact with the gut, however; above, it is separated from it by the lower part of the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, and below this by the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia, the vasa deferentia, and the vesiculae seminales (Fig. 133). The ureters open into the upper part of the base. The inferior surface, which looks downwards, is devoid of peritoneum, and rests directly upon the pubic bones in its fore part. Further back, however, it is separated from the symphysis by a triangular interval, which is filled with a little pad of soft pliable fatty-areolar tissue. This is termed the retro-pubic pad, and it occupies a space bounded below by the pubis, above by the bladder, and behind by the anterior true ligaments of the bladder (Fig. 133). The superior surface is directed upwards, and is covered by peritoneum. Resting upon this aspect of the bladder are some coils of the small intestine, and probably also a loop of great in- testine formed by the first part of the rectum and the lower part of the sigmoid flexure. Upon the lateral surface the obliterated hypogastric artery and the vas deferens will be found. As the latter descends towards the base, it will be noticed to cross the obliterated hypogastric artery. This aspect of the bladder is clothed by peritoneum as far down- wards as the obliterated hypogastric artery; along the line of this fibrous cord it quits the viscus and passes to the iliac fossa and the lateral wall of the pelvis. The neck or cervix of the bladder is that part from which the urethra issues. It is surrounded by the base of the prostate, and is directed downwards. When the urine is ejected from the bladder the superior wall descends until it becomes approximated to the inferior wall and the basal wall. The viscus, therefore, becomes flattened from above downwards, and comes to lie entirely within the cavity of the true pelvis. When such a bladder is examined in a mesial section of the pelvis, and in a subject from whom the urine has been expelled shortly before death, the walls of the bladder are thick and firm, and the lumen of the viscus may be reduced to a mere slit. The part of the lumen which lies behind the