POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 291 soleus, and is accompanied by the nerve to the flexor longus hallucis. It cannot be traced further at present, as it sinks into the substance of that muscle. Posterior Tibial Nerve.—This is the continuation into the back of the leg of the internal popliteal nerve. It begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle and ends in the hollow between the heel and the internal malleolus by dividing into the external and internal plantar nerves. It accompanies the posterior tibial vessels, and presents the same relations. For a short distance in the upper part of the leg it lies on the inner side of the posterior tibial artery, but it soon crosses it, and is then continued downwards for the remainder of its course on the outer side of the vessel. It supplies—{a) muscular branches to the tibialis posticus, flexor longus hallucis, and flexor longus digitorum; {li) a cutaneous twig, the internal calcanean, which springs from it close to its termination, and pierces the internal annular ligament to reach the integument of the heel and sole of the foot; and {c) articular filaments to the ankle-joint. Deep Muscles.—The popliteus muscle will be seen lying upon the posterior aspect of the knee-joint and upon the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique line. Its tendon of origin lies within the capsule of the knee-joint, and can only be properly studied when this articulation is dissected. Note the strong fascia which covers the posterior surface of the popli- teus, and trace it upwards and inwards to the inner side of the knee. Here it will be observed to be continuous with the tendon of the semi- membranosus, and through it, therefore, the semimembranosus may be regarded as having an insertion into the oblique line of the tibia. The flexor lofigus hallucis is placed upon the posterior aspect of the fibula, and its tendon will be noticed to groove deeply the posterior border of the astragalus as it passes forwards to gain the sole of the foot. The flexor longus digitorum lies upon the tibia. The tibialis posticus