641 PEL VIS. The Uterine Artery springs from the anterior division of the internal ihac artery, and proceeds downwards and in- wards to the neck of the uterus. At this point it gives several small branches to the vagina and bladder, and, changing its direction, extends upw^ards in a tortuous manner along the lateral border of the uterus and between the t\vo layers of the broad ligament. Reaching the fundus, it sends several twigs outwards into the broad ligament; of these, one accompanies the round ligament, another goes with the Fallopian tube, and several proceed to the ovary, and anastomose with twigs from the ovarian artery. Whilst, in contact with the lateral border of the uterus, the uterine artery gives numerous branches to this organ. The Vaginal Artery also springs from the anterior division of the internal iliac, but it is not unusual for it to arise in common with the uterine artery, or the middle haemorrhoidal artery. It is distributed to the vagina, and sends twigs to the rectum and bladder. The Ovarian Artery.—The course which this vessel takes wathin the abdomen proper is described at p. 541. When it arrives at the pelvis, it insinuates itself between the tw^o layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, where this forms the ovario-pelvic fold. It is highly tortuous, and runs along the anterior border of the ovary, and from thence onwards to the fundus of the uterus into which its terminal branches sink. It follows, therefore, the course of the Fallopian tube to which it gives several branches, and in the neighbourhood of the ovary a crowd of small twigs enter along the hilum of that organ. It likewise supplies an offset which follows the round ligament, and it anastomoses freely with branches of the uterine artery. The other arteries of the female pelvis are identical with those of the male, and therefore it is needless to repeat the description which will be found at p. 588. Veins of the Pelvis.—Very few facts require to be added to those which are given regarding the veins of the male VOL. I.—41