187 GLUTEAL REGION. passes backwards between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus. It anastomoses with the terminal twig of the middle division of the external circumflex artery, which in a well injected subject will be noticed appearing from midst the fibres of the vastus externus at its upper part. An arterial circle is thus completed around the upper part of the femur which communicates above with the sciatic artery and below with the first perforating artery. This series of inosculations is sometimes spoken of as the crucial anastomosis of the thigh. Dissection.—The dissector has now examined all the structures in the gluteal region which lie below the level of the pyriformis. He should, in the next place, turn his attention to that portion of the dissection which lies above the level of that muscle. Here are found a number of parts in close relation to the dorsum ilii. These are the gluteus medius, the gluteus minimus, and the tensor fascise femoris muscles, together with the blood-vessel and nerve which supplies them, viz., the gluteal artery and the superior gluteal nerve. The gluteus medius muscle is only covered in its hinder part by the gluteus maximus. In front it is invested by the dense aponeurotic layer already referred to. This fascia must be removed in order that a satis- factory view of the muscle may be obtained. It will then become evident that numerous ileshy fibres arise from the deep surface of the fascia. Care must be taken not to injure the origin of the tensor fascii-e femoris which overlaps the anterior part of the gluteus medius, and is partially adherent to it. Gluteus Medius.—The gluteus medius arises from that part of the dorsum ihi which is bounded above by the superior curved line and the anterior four-fifths of the crest of the ilium, and below by the middle curved line; it also derives fibres from the strong fascia which covers its upper and anterior part. The fibres converge to form a flattened band, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, which is inserted into an oblique line on the outer surface of the great trochanter of the femur. Dissection.—The gluteus medius must now be reflected. This dis- section is complicated by the fact that in its upper and anterior part the gluteus medius is partially blended with the subjacent gluteus