270 THE LOWER LIMB. found impossible to raise the fascia from the subjacent muscles without lacerating their surfaces. It should therefore be left in position. At a lower level it can readily be separated. Divide it in a longitudinal direction midway between the tibia and fibula. On throwing the inner piece inwards, its firm attachment to the anterior border of the tibia will become evident; and as the outer piece is turned outwards, the anterior peroneal septum will come into view. Contents of the Anterior Tibio-fibular Compartment.— Four muscles are brought into view by the above dissec- tion, viz., the tibiahs anticus, the extensor longus digi- torum, the extensor longus hallucis, and the peroneus tertius. The tibialis atiticus lies in relation to the tibia; the extensor longus digitorum is placed along the fibula \ and on separating these muscles from each other, the extensor longus hallucis will be observed in the interval between them. The peroneus tertius lies upon the lower portion of the fibula, and in most cases is incorporated with the extensor longus digitorum. The anterior tibial vessels and nerve proceed downwards in this compartment. At first they are deeply placed, but as they approach the ankle they come nearer to the surface. Dissection.—To expose the anterior tibial vessels and nerve in their entire course on the fronjt of the leg, the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum must be separated from each other along the line of a strong intermuscular septum, which dips backwards between them, and affords a surface of origin to each. The knife should be carried upwards along the plane of this septum. By drawing aside the peroneus tertius muscle, the anterior peroneal arteyy will be seen piercing the interosseous membrane. It is a small artery which descends upon the lower end of the fibula. As the structures in the anterior tibio-fibular compart- ment are being exposed and cleaned, the dissector should at the same time carry on the dissection of the dorsum of the foot. Here the tendons of the muscles on the front of the leg must be followed to their insertions, and the extensor brevis digitorum muscle defined. The dorsalispedis artery and the anterior tibial nerve should also be followed, and their branches traced to their various destinations. The Tibialis Anticus is a powerful muscle, which takes origin from the lower part of the external tuberosity of the