THE UPPER LIMB. 142 nator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and then it extends downwards between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm. It gives branches to these, and by the time it has reached the lower end of the forearm it is greatly reduced in size. In a well-injected limb it will be seen to end on the back of the carpus by anastomosing with the anterior interosseous and the posterior carpal arteries. In addition to the branches which it suppHes to the muscles, it gives off one large branch called the posterior iriterosseoiis recurrent. The posterior interosseous 7'ecurrent artery takes origin from the parent trunk as it appears between the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and turns upwards, under cover of the anconeus muscle, to reach the posterior aspect of the outer condyle of the humerus. The anconeus should be detached from its origin and thrown inwards, in order that the artery may be traced to its ter- mination. The interosseous recurrent artery will then be seen to end by anastomosing with the posterior terminal branch of the superior profunda artery. The Anastomosis around the elbow-joint should now be reviewed as a whole. A distinct inosculation will be found to take place upon both the anterior and posterior aspect of each condyle of the humerus. Behind the external condyle the posterior i?iterosseous 7'ecurre?it joins the posterior branch of the superior pi'ofunda : in front of the same con- dyle the anterior branch of the superior profunda communi- cates with the radial recurreiit. On the inner side of the joint the anterior 2J\d posterior ulnar recu7'rent arteries diScend respectively in front of and behind the internal condyle, and anastomose, the former with the anterior brafich of the anastomotic, and the latter with the posterior brafi€h of the anastomotic and the inferior profunda. In this sketch of the anastomosis around the elbow-joint only the leading inosculations are mentioned. Rich net- works of fine vessels, however, are formed over the