226 THE LOWER LIMB. outward direction over the ilio-psoas muscle, whilst from its posterior aspect a lamina is given off which passes behind that muscle and joins the capsule of the hip-joint. Interior of the Femoral Sheath.—The femoral sheath should be opened, in order that the arrangement of parts inside may be displayed. Make three vertical and parallel incisions through the anterior wall—one over the femoral artery which occupies the outer part of the sheath, another over the femoral vein, and the third about half-an-inch internal to the second. The first two should begin at the level of Poupart's Hgament, and should extend downwards for an inch and a-half. The most internal of the three incisions should commence at the same point, but should only be carried downwards for half-an-inch or less. A little dissection will show that the sheath is subdivided by two vertical partitions into three compartments. The femoral artery and crural branch of the genito-crural nerve occupy the outermost compartment; the femoral vein fills up the 7niddle compartment; whilst in the innermost compartment is lodged a little loose areolar tissue, a small lymphatic gland, and some lymphatic vessels. This last compartment, from its relation to femoral hernia, has the special name of crural canal applied to it. Crural Canal.—The boundaries and extent of this canal must be very thoroughly studied. The best way to do this is to introduce the little finger into it and gently push it upwards. Its length is not nearly so great as that of the other two compartments. Indeed it is not more than half-an-inch long. Inferiorly it is closed, and it rapidly diminishes in width from above downwards. Its superior aperture lies on the outer side of the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and is called the crural ring. It is closed by the closely-applied extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. The parts which immediately surround this opening can be readily detected with the finger; externally the femoral vein., inter- nally the sharp crescentic base of Gimbernafs ligatnent.,