385 THE FEMALE PERINEUM. pudic arteries, the dorsal nerves of the clitoris, and the small arteries which enter the crura, are very apt to be injured. The pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve will be seen piercing the triangular ligament about half-an-inch below the symphysis pubis, and a little way external to the middle line. The Triangular Ligament.—A good view is now obtained of the triangular ligament. Owing to the greater width of the pubic arch, it is a more extensive membrane than in the male. It does not possess the same strength, however, and is not so perfect, seeing that it is pierced by the vaginal canal. In the middle line it is pierced fully an inch below the symphysis pubis by the urethra, and immediately below the urethral opening by the wide vaginal canal. Its base is perforated by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, whilst the internal pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris pierce it about half-an-inch below the symphysis. The dorsal vein of the clitoris passes backwards through an oval opening between the transverse perineal ligament and the subpubic ligament. The so-called deep layer of the triangular Ugavient is really a part of the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia. Opposite the pubic arch the deep layer of the triangular ligament by its lower border fuses with the base of the triangular ligament. As it is traced upwards, however, it recedes from the triangular ligament, and consequently a space or interval is left between them. Dissection.—The triangular ligament should be reflected upon one side. Detach it from the margin of the pubic arch and throw it in- wards. The pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris, together with the compressor urethrse muscle, may now be examined. Urethra.—The female urethra is a short canal, which ex- tends from the neck of the bladder to its orifice on the vestibule. It measures about one and a-half inches in length, and has an oblique and slightly curved course from above downwards and forwards. The concavity of the VOL. I.—25