4i8 ABDOMEN. and forwards. So much for its length and direction; we have still to make out in connection with it (i) a floor; (2) an anterior wall; and (3) a posterior wall. The floor is formed in the first part of the canal by the upper grooved surface of Poupart's ligament. Towards the outlet, however, the floor becomes broader and more definite; here it is formed not only by Poupart's ligament, but also by Gimbernat's ligament. At this point, as the student has already observed, the cord rests directly upon the abdominal surface of the latter ligament. The parts which enter into the formation of the anterior wall are—(i) the aponeurosis of the external oblique throughout the entire extent of the canal; and (2) the lower border of the internal oblique in the outer third of the canal. These facts can be readily verified by restoring the structures to their original positions. The parts which compose the posterior wall are still in situ. Naming them in order, from the inlet to the outlet, they are—(i) the fascia trans- versalis; (2) the conjoined tendon; and (3) the triangular fascia, when it is strongly developed. But it may be asked, Does the transversalis muscle take no part in the formation of the inguinal canal? The student can readily satisfy himself as to this point. He will notice that the arched lower border of this muscle does not descend so low as that of the internal oblique, that, in fact, it stops short immediately above the internal abdominal ring. The canal is closed superiorly by the approximation of the anterior and posterior walls above the cord, and by the intervention between these walls of the lower borders of the transversalis and internal oblique. There is still another point to be noted, viz., the relation which the deep epigastric artery bears to the posterior wall of the canal. This vessel can be felt (and, indeed, in most cases seen) extending obliquely upwards and inwards behind the transversalis fascia to the outer border of the rectus. A triangular space is thus mapped out by the artery, Pou-