MALE FERINE mi. 355 very distinctly the pudic vessels and nerve as they pass forwards to gain the urethral triangle. In this position they are enclosed in a tube or sheath formed by the parietal pelvic fascia. This fascial tunnel is called Alcock's canal. The student must for the present be satisfied with this partial view of these structures. To expose them would necessitate the division of the parietal pelvic fascia, and this should be kept entire until the pelvic fascia can be studied as a whole. Inferior Haemorrhoidal Vessels and Nerve.—The inferior or external hceniorrhoidal arteries are branches of the internal pudic. They are usually two or three in number, and, piercing the inner wall of Alcock's canal, they pass inwards through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa to supply the lower end of the rectum and the muscles in connection with it, as well as the skin around the anus. They anastomose with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and with branches from the middle and superior hccmorrhoidal arteries. They likewise send a few twigs round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, in company with the per- forating cutaneous nerve to supply the skin in the lower part of the buttock. The ijiferior hceniorrhoidal voxwi, when they become varicose, give rise to haemorrhoids. The inferior hcEniorrhoidal nerve accompanies the vessels. It may proceed directly from the sacral plexus, but more frequently it is a branch of the internal pudic nerve. Perforating the inner wall of Alcock's canal, it enters the ischio-rectal fossa, and then it breaks up into muscular, cutaneous, and communicating branches. The muscular twigs supply the external sphincter : the cutaneous offsets are given to the skin which surrounds the anus, whilst the coni- nmnicating filanmits pass forwards to join the long pudendal nerve and the superficial perineal nerves. Perineal Branch of Fourth Sacral Nerve.—This small nerve enters the ischial-rectal fossa by piercing the coccygeus muscle at the side of the coccyx. It is distributed to the