THE UPPER LIMB. 64 on one condyle, the middle finger on the other, and the forefinger on the olecranon. The limb should then be alternately flexed and extended, so as to make clear the limits of the excursion performed by the olecranon. In full extension at the elbow-joint the three prominences are placed on the same straight line; when the forearm is bent at a right angle the three bony points are placed at the angles of an equilateral triangle, the apex of which points downwards. When the arm is extended the head of the radius may be easily felt on the back of the limb, immediately below the external condyle, and when the movements of pronation and supination are alternately induced it will be felt to roll under the finger. As the skin of the forearm must be reflected in the pur- suit of the cutaneous nerves, it is well, at this stage, to study also the external anatomy of this segment of the limb. In its upper half the radius is deeply imbedded in muscles, but in its lower half it can be felt, and its styloid process on the outer side of the wrist can be readily distinguished. The sinuous posterior border of the ulna is subcutaneous, and may be followed by the finger throughout its entire length. In cases of fracture, therefore, it affords valuable information. The styloid process may be detected, and it should be observed that this does not extend so low down as the corresponding process of the radius. The rounded lower end of the ulna makes a marked projection on the inner and posterior aspect of the limb immediately above the wrist-joint. Reflection of Skin.—The skin should be removed from the limb as far down as the wrist-joint. It is necessary to do this in order that a connected view may be obtained of the cutaneous nerves and the super- ficial veins. But at the same time the skin should not be cast aside, as it forms a most efficient protective wrapping for the part even after it has been detached. Make one long incision along the middle of the fore aspect of the arm and the forearm down to the wrist. A second in- cision, carried transversely round the lower end of the forearm imme- diately above the wrist-joint, will enable the dissector to reflect the skin