THE LOWER LIMB. 26o Abduction, or outward movement of the thigh, is checked by the pubo- femoral band. Adduction, or inward movement [e.g., as in crossing one thigh over the other), is limited by the upper portion of the ilio-femoral band and the upper part of the capsule. Rotation inwards tightens the ischio-capsular band, and is therefore in a measure restrained by it. Rotation outwards is limited by the outer portion of the ilio-femoral band. In circumduction, which is combination of the movements of flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction, different parts of the capsular ligament are tightened at different stages of the movement. The flexor muscles, which operate on the femur at the hip-joint, are chiefly—(i) the ilio-psoas, and (2) the pectineus ; the extensors are—(i) the gluteus maximus, and (2) the gluteus medius ; the abductors—(i) the upper part of the gluteus maximus, (2) the gluteus medius, (3) the gluteus minimus; the adductors—(i) the three adductors, {2) the pecti- neus, (3) the lower part of the gluteus maximus, and (4) the obturator externus ; the inward rotators—(i) the anterior part of the gluteus medius, (2) the anterior part of the gluteus minimus, (3) the tensor fascice femoris, and (4) the ilio-psoas ; the outward rotators—(i) the two obturator muscles, (2) the gemelli, (3) the pyriformis, (4) the quadratus femoris, and (5) the gluteus maximus. Dissection.—The hip-joint may now be opened, and in doing this it is advisable to remove in the first instance the whole capsule, with the exception of the ilio-femoral band. The enormous strength of this portion of the capsule can in this way be appreciated. It is fully a a quarter of an inch thick, and a strain varying from 250 lbs. to 750 lbs. is required for its rupture (Bigelow). It is very rarely torn asunder in dislocations, and consequently the surgeon is enabled in most cases to reduce the displacement by manipulation. The ilio-femoral band may now be removed. The Cotyloid Ligament is a firm fibro-cartilaginous ring, which is fixed to the brim or margin of the acetabulum. It bridges across the notch, and thus completes the circumfer- ence of the cavity, deepens it, and at the same time narrows slightly its mouth. The cotyloid ligament fits closely upon the head of the femur, and acting Hke a sucker, exercises an important influence in retaining it in place. Both surfaces are covered by synovial membrane; its free margin is thin, but it is much thicker at its attachment to the acetabular brim.