396 ABDOMEN. forwards to the middle line in the form of aponeuroses. The union of these with the corresponding aponeuroses of the opposite side forms the li7iea alba—a strong band which extends in the median line from the symphysis pubis to the ensiform cartilage. Dissection.—Remove the superficial fascia from the front of the abdomen. This will expose the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. Towards the thorax this aponeurosis is very thin, and is liable to injury, unless the dissection be performed with care. Proceed cautiously also at the lower part of the abdomen, above the inner end of Poupart's ligament. Here the aponeurosis is pierced in the male by the spermatic cord. The lips of the opening thus formed are prolonged downwards upon the cord in the form of a thin membrane called the external spermatic fascia. In defining this the blade of the knife must not be used. Work entirely with the handle. The thin layer of deep fascia which is spread over the muscular part of the external oblique muscle must also be removed. In doing this it is not necessary to carry the knife in the direction of the fleshy fasciculi. Indeed, the muscle can best be cleaned by carrying the knife at right angles to the general direction of the fibres. In front, the deep fascia will be seen to blend with the aponeurosis of the muscle, along the line of junction between the tendinous and fleshy fibres. The slips of origin of the external oblique muscle from the eight lower ribs must each be carefully defined. The Obliquus Abdominis Exteraus arises by eight pointed processes or digitations from the outer surfaces and lower borders of the eight lower ribs (Fig. 77). Of these, the upper five interdigitate with the digitations of the serratus magnus, and the lower three with those of the latissimus dorsi. From this origin the fibres proceed downwards and forwards with varying degrees of obliquity. The posterior fibres have a nearly vertical direction, and are inserted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium. The superior fibres are almost horizontal, and the inter- mediate fibres are directed obliquely downwards and for- wards, and both end in a strong aponeurosis called the aponeurosis of the external obliqiie. Siperiorly, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is very thin, and is carried forwards to be attached to the ensiform