PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 17 clavicular fossa, and it is rendered all the more apparent by the prominence of the shoulder on its outer side, and the sharp backward curvature of the clavicle immediately above it. If the finger be placed in this fossa, and pressed backwards and outwards, it will rest upon the inner side of the coracoid process of the scapula. The articulations of the clavicle should also be examined. Little or no promi- nence is formed by the outer end of the clavicle—its upper surface passes continuously on to the upper surface of the acromion process of the scapula. By moving the limb, however, the joint can easily be detected. In strong con- trast to this is the sterno-clavicular joint, where the inner end of the clavicle can be felt as a marked projection, although this is masked to the eye by the sternal part of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The suprasternal notch on the upper border of the manubrium sterni between the clavicles should next be felt, and then the finger can be carried downwards in the middle line and in front of the sternum. A prominent ridge, crossing the bone transversely at the level of the second costal cartilages, indicates the junction between the body and manubrium sterni. The portion of the sternum uncovered by the two greater pectoral muscles is narrow above, but it widens out below, and suddenly, at the lower end of the meso-sternum, the finger sinks into a depression between the cartilages of the seventh pair of ribs, and rests upon the ensiform cartilage. This is termed the infrasternal fossa, or pit of the stomach. The costal arches below the first are easily recognised, but the first rib lies deeply under the clavicle, and can only be felt in front at its junction with the manubrium sterni. The arm should now be abducted {i.e., carried outwards from the trunk), when the hollow of the armpit will be brought into view, as well as the two rounded folds which bound it in front and behind. The anterior fold of the axilla is formed by the lower border of the pectoralis major, and to a small extent also VOL. I.—2