THE UPPER LIMB. 98 as follows : the first supplies the ulnar side of the thumb; the second goes to the radial side of the index finger; the third divides to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers; whilst the fourth joins with a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar (as already described) to supply the contiguous margins of the middle and ring fingers. It should be noted that, except in the cases of the thumb and little fingers, the dorsal collateral nerves do not reach the extremities of the digits. The skin on the back of the lower parts of the digits is supplied by twigs, which proceed backwards from the palmar collateral nerves. As already stated, it is from the branch of the radial, which goes to the outer side of the thumb, that the radial palmar cutaneous nerve arises. Numerous fine filaments are given to the skin on the dorsum of the hand, and a certain amount of crossing of the adjacent ulnar and radial twigs takes place in this locality; in other words, twigs from the one nerve invade the territory which is occupied by the other nerve. The Deep Fascia, which envelopes the forearm, should now be cleaned by removing the subcutaneous adipose tissue. It is an aponeurosis of great strength and density. More particularly is this the case on the posterior aspect of the limb, and also in the lower third of the forearm, where the fleshy bellies of the subjacent muscles give place to the tendons. In its upper part it receives an accession of fibres from the tendon of the biceps in the form of the bicipital or semilunar fascia. Some fibres are also given to it by the tendon of the triceps. Near the elbow it serves as a surface of origin for the numerous muscles which spring from the condyles of the humerus, and from its deep aspect dense septa pass between the fleshy bellies. These partitions are indicated on the surface by a series of white lines. At the wrist it becomes continuous in front with the anterior annular ligament, whilst behind it forms an obliquely