THE UPPER LIMB. 8 supraspinous ligaments which bridge across the intervals between them. The cranial or occipital origin is by short tendinous fibres, which are interlaced with aponeurotic bands, connecting it to the adjacent attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid. The cervical and dorsal origin is, for the most part, also effected by short tendinous fibres, which are not very apparent, owing to the fact that they are almost immediately replaced by the fleshy fasciculi; but in the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions they lengthen out so as to form a manifest flat tendon, which, taken in conjunction with the corresponding aponeurosis of the opposite side, exhibits an oval outline. As the fibres of the trapezius pass outwards, they con- verge to gain an insertion into the two bones of the shoulder- girdle. The occipital and upper cervical fibres incline downwards, and turning forwards over the shoulder, are inserted into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle; the lower cervical and upper dorsal fibres pass more or less transversely outwards, to gain an insertion into the inner border of the acromion process and the upper margin of the spine of the scapula; while the lower dorsal fibres are directed upwards and, at the base of the scapula, end in a flat, triangular tendon, which plays over the smooth surface at the root of the scapular spine, and is inserted into a rough tubercle on the spine of the scapula immediately beyond this. To facilitate the movement of the tendon upon the bone a small synovial bursa intervenes between them. Dissection.—The latissimus dorsi is now to be dissected. It is a difficult muscle to clean, not only on account of the varying direction of its fibres, but also because its upper part is generally very thin, and its upper border ill-defined. Near the spines of the vertebrae it is overlapped in its upper part by the trapezius, but in its greater extent it is subcutane- ous. Both layers of fascia should be raised together from its surface, and its fibres may be stretched by raising the arm and folding it under the neck. The origin of the latissimus dorsi in the lumbar region is effected through the medium of the superficial lamina of the lumbar fascia, a dense tendinous aponeurosis, which covers the erector spinoe in the loins (Fig. 3). Clean this structure thoroughly. The attachment of