302 THE LOWER LIMB. between the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor brevis digitorum. In following the external plantar nerve, the branches which it gives to the musculus accessorius and the abductor minimi digiti must be secured. The latter nerve lies close to the os calcis. Internal Plantar Artery.—This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. It arises in the hollow between the internal malleolus and the pro- minence of the OS calcis at the lower border of the internal annular ligament. At first it is placed under cover of the abductor hallucis, but as it proceeds forwards it appears in the interval between this muscle and the flexor brevis digi- torum. Finally, at the root of the great toe it ends by joining the digital branch to the inner side of the hallux. The branches which proceed from the internal plantar are small but very numerous. They are—(i) three twigs which accompany the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve to the clefts between the four inner toes. These end by joining the corresponding digital arteries; (2) a series of cutaneous branches to the skin of the sole, which pierce the deep fascia in the furrow between the internal lateral and central parts of the plantar fascia; (3) a number of branches to the muscles in the vicinity; (4) some offsets which pass inwards under cover of the abductor hallucis to reach the inner border of the foot. The External Plantar Artery is much larger than the internal plantar. It is accompanied by the external plantar nerve and two vejicz coinites. From its origin in the hollow of the OS calcis it proceeds outwards across the sole to reach the interval between the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor minimi digiti. In this interval it is continued forwards for a short distance, and then at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone it turns suddenly inwards, and crosses the sole a second time, under cover of the flexor tendons, to form the plantar arch. In the present stage of the dis- section it is only displayed as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Between its origin and this point its