249 INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. ductor magnus. Numerous large branches spring from the profunda femoris, so that it rapidly diminishes in size. Ultimately it is reduced to a fine terminal twig, which turns backwards, through the adductor magnus, and is termed the fourth perforating artery. The following, then, are the relations of the profunda femoris :—(i) It lies on the iliacus to the outer side of the femoral artery. (2) It rests on the pectineus, behind the femoral artery, but separated from it by the femoral vein. (3) It is placed on the adductor brevis, and lower down on the adductor magnus; the adductor longus lies in front of it, and separates it from the femoral artery. (4) The terminal twig, called the fourth perforating artery, pierces the adductor magnus at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh. The branches which spring from the profunda femoris are : the two circumflex arteries, the four perforating arteries, and some muscular branches. The external circuinflex arises from the outer aspect of the profunda, close to its origin. It has already been followed to its distribution (p. 243). The internal circumflex., which takes origin at the same level, but from the inner and back aspect of the profunda, will be studied when the pectineus muscle is reflected. The muscular branches are irregular both in origin and size. They supply the adductor muscles, and give twigs which pierce the adductor magnus to reach the hamstring muscles. The internal circumflex frequently arises from the common femoral trunk. The Perforating Arteries arise in series from the main trunk, and pass backwards through the adductor muscles to the back of the thigh. They may be recognised from the close relation which they bear to the linea aspera of the femur. The first perforating artery comes ofl" at the level of the lower border of the pectineus. It proceeds backwards through the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. The second perforating artery takes origin a short distance lower