596 ABDOMEN. at the side of the coccyx. The two latter are very minute, but they can be easily found by following downwards a twig from the fourth to the fifth sacral nerve, and another twig which connects the fifth nerve with the coccygeal. The first and second sacral nerves are very large and almost equal in size ; the third sacral nerve is much smaller than these, and the fourth still smaller than the third. Each spinal nerve is joined by two twigs from the sym- pathetic cord. The first three sacral nerves unite to form the sacral plexus. This is joined above by the lumbo-sacral cord, and below by a branch from the fourth sacral nerve. The fifth sacral nerve and the coccygeal nerve, with the descending branch of the fourth sacral nerve, unite to form the sacro-coccygeal plexus. Sacral Plexus.—When the nerves which enter the sacral plexus are dissected they will be seen to resolve themselves into two flattened bands—viz., an upper sciatic and a lower pudendal. The sciatic band is very large, and is formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with the first sacral nerve and the greater portion of both the second and the third sacral nerves. It proceeds downwards and outwards to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and, here much reduced in width and increased in thickness, it enters the gluteal region below the level of the pyriformis muscle as the great sciatic nerve. This nerve indeed may be regarded as the direct continuation of the sciatic band of the plexus into the thigh. The pudendal band is small and lies at a lower level than the sciatic band. It takes origin by roots which spring from the second, third and fourth sacral nerves, and unite in a plexiform manner to form the band. It leaves the pelvis through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis, and is continued directly into the internalpudic nerve. The sacral plexus rests upon the pyriformis muscle; whilst, anteriorly, it is clothed by parietal pelvic fascia,