THE LOWER LIMB. 222 the fascia lata must be partially reflected. Divide the superior horn of the outer crescentic margin of the saphenous opening, and then carry the knife outwards along the lower border of Poupart's ligament, so as to sever the attachment of the fascia lata to this thickened band. This incision should extend to within an inch of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The piece of fascia marked out by the incision above, and by the outer free margin of the saphenous opening internally, must be carefully raised from the subjacent femoral sheath and thrown down- wards and outwards. On the removal of a little loose fat, the fe/?wral sheath will be brought into view as it enters the thigh under Poupart's ligament. Isolate it carefully from adjacent and surrounding parts, by carrying the handle of the knife gently round it—insinuating it first between the sheath and Poupart's ligajuent, then between the sheath and Gimbertiafs ligajuent^ which lies internal to it. Femoral Sheath.—The funnel-shaped appearance of the femoral sheath will now be apparent—the wide mouth of the membranous tube being directed upwards into the abdomen, and the narrow inferior part gradually closing upon the vessels, and fusing with their coats about the level of the lower limit of the saphenous opening. Whilst it presents this appearance, however, it should be noticed that its sides do not slope equally towards each other. The outer side of the sheath indeed is nearly vertical in its direction, whilst the inner wall proceeds very obliquely from above downwards and out- wards. If the dissection has been successfully performed, the crural branch of the ge?iito-crural nerve should be seen piercing the outer wall of the sheath, and the internal saphenous vein, and some lymphatic vessels, perforating its anterior and inner walls. Further, if the subject be spare, and the fasciae well marked, the dissector will in all proba- bility notice that the anterior wall of the sheath in its upper part is strengthened by some transverse fibres which pursue an arched course across it. To these fibres the name of deep crural arch is given, in contradistinction to the term super- ficial crural arch., which is frequently applied to Poupart's ligament. In favourable circumstances the deep crural arch may be observed to spring from the under surface of