584 ABDOMEN. The Prostate.—This is a solid body, partly glandular and partly muscular, which embraces the neck of the bladder and surrounds the first part of the urethra. In shape, it is conical, and somewhat resembles a Spanish chestnut—its base being directed upwards, and its apex downwards. In size, it is variable; but its average dimen- sions are commonly stated to be about one inch and a-quarter from base to apex, and one inch and a-half from side to side at its broadest part. The prostate rests upon the anterior aspect of the second part of the rectum. It is about one inch and a-half distant from the anus, whilst its anterior surface lies three-quarters of an inch behind the lower part of the symphysis pubis. The prostate has already been noticed to be enclosed within a dense capsule derived from the pelvic fascia, and when the constitution of this capsule is analysed, it will be seen that the vesical, recto-vesical, and parietal layers of this fascia all enter into its composition. The vesical layer, in which the pubo-prostatic or anterior true ligaments of the bladder are developed, forms the anterior part j the recto- vesical layer closes it behind; whilst the same layer and the parietal pelvic fascia complete it below. These points are brought out in a diagrammatic manner in Figs. 128, 130, and 131. This capsule prevents the prostate altering its position in response to the continual changes in the state of distension of the bladder. Open into the capsule, and lay bare the prostate. It will be found to be surrounded within the capsule by a dense network of veins. This is the prostatic plexus, and it will be noticed that the veins are chiefly massed upon the lateral aspects and around the base of the gland. The dorsal vein of the penis passes upwards in relation to the anterior or pubic surface of the prostate, and, after dividing into two, joins the plexus. Two median grooves, one upon its anterior or pubic surface, and the other upon its posterior or rectal surface.