ABDOMEX. 626 been seen to take place along the line of the obHterated hypogastric artery. The false ligaments of the uterus are four in number— tivo a7iterior and tivo posterior. These are simply other names applied to the recto-uterine and utero-vesical folds. The recto-uterine folds, or folds of Douglas, contain a consid- erable quantity of involuntary muscular tissue between their layers. Hypogastric Nervous Plexus.—In no respect does it differ from that of the male {vide p. 559). Pelvic Fascia.—For a description of the pelvic fascia and the manner in which it should be dissected the student is referred to page 560. The parietal portion is identical with that of the male, except in so far that in front it sweeps backwards upon the urethra and vagina, instead of the prostate, to join the visceral part. The visceral portion differs inasmuch as it gives a sheath to the vagina. Reaching the lateral aspect of the viscera, it thus divides into four layers, viz.—(i.) A vesical layer^ which forms the lateral true ligament of the bladder; (2.) A vesico-vaginal layer^ which passes between the bladder and vagina ; (3.) A recto- vaginal layer, which proceeds inwards between the vagina and rectum ; and (4.) A rectal layer, for the lateral and posterior aspects of the rectum. Dissection.—The right innominate bone should now be removed, in accordance with the directions given at p. 573, and the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia followed out in its various reflections upon the viscera. \Mitn thoroughly satisfied upon this point, remove the remains of the fascia and clean the viscera, taking care not to injure the blood vessels and nerves which supply them. This dissection will be rendered easier if the rectum and vagina be cleansed and moderately stuffed with tow. It is better also to partially inflate the bladder, but it is a difficult matter to retain the air when introduced ; still it can be accomplished by sewing a fine thread round the urethral orifice, and tightening it like a purse- string as the blow-pipe is withdrawn.