MALE PERINEUM. 349 by strong fibrous bands or cords. In this locality the superficial fascia acts as a cushion on which the tuber ischii rests when the body is in the sitting posture. But, again, if the superficial fascia be now followed for- wards over the urethral triangle, another change in its character becomes manifest. The further forwards we pro- ceed, the scarcer becomes the fat which it contains in its meshes, and in the scrotum the fat entirely disappears and gives place to a thin layer of involuntary muscular fibres. These constitute the dartos muscle., and are recognised by their ruddy colour. The rugosity of the scrotal integument is caused by the contraction of these fibres. Over the urethral triangle the superficial fascia can be shown to consist of two very definite layers. The super- ficial layer is fatty and is not confined to this region. In fact it is simply a portion of the general fatty covering of the body. Behind it is continuous with the plugs of fat which fill up the ischio-rectal fossa; on either side it leaves the perineum and becomes continuous with the fatty tissue on the inner aspects of the thighs. The deep layer is of an altogether different nature. It is a dense membranaceous stratum, devoid of fat, which is spread over the urethral triangle. It is called the fascia of Colles. This sheet of fascia forms very definite attachments around the limits of the urethral triangle. Thus, on either side it is fixed to the anterior lips of the rami of the pubis and ischium, whilst inferiorly it is tucked round the two transverse perineal muscles and blends with the base of the triangular ligament. A pouch is thus formed, which is bounded i?i front by the fascia of Colles, behind by the triangular ligament, laterally by the attachment of these to the sides of the pubic arch, whilst below it is closed by the union of the fascia of Colles with the base of the triangular ligament (Fig. 66, p. 355). Within this pouch certain important parts are placed—viz., the superficial perineal muscles, vessels, and nerves, the bulb and crura of the penis, and the termination of the