PEL VIS. 601 are very variable in number, but as a general rule there are five—one in relation to each sacral vertebra. Each of these is brought into connection with the spinal nerves by two short twigs. The branches of these ganglia are chiefly distributed upon the anterior surface of the sacrum and around the middle sacral artery. A few filaments, however, are given to the pelvic plexuses, and some minute twigs proceed from the ganglion impar to the parts about the coccyx and to the coccygeal body. Coccygeal Body.—This is a minute lobulated body about the size of a small pea, and situated in front of the tip of the coccyx. In structure it is almost entirely vascular, being composed of a plexus of minute arteries in connection with the terminal twigs of the middle sacral artery. It receives minute filaments from the ganglion impar. The function of this little body is quite unknown. Possibly it has none. Most likely it is vestigial, and has a develop- mental significance. Removal of the Viscera.—The viscera must now be removed from the pelvic cavity. Begin by dividing the vessels and nerves which enter them, the levator ani, and the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. Then sever the parts which hold the membranous portion of the urethra and the bulb of the penis to the pubic arch. Great care must be taken at this stage not to injure the delicate walls of the urethra, or to lose sight of Cowper's glands. Lastly, separate the rectum from its con- nections with the coccyx. Laying aside the viscera for a little, the dissector should study the muscles in relation to the pelvic wall—viz., the obturator internus and the pyriformis. Obturator Internus.—This muscle clothes the lateral wall of the pelvis upon its inner aspect. Remove the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia, and it will come into view. It is a fan-shaped muscle, and has an extensive origin, viz.—(i.) from the circumference of the thyroid foramen, except above, where the obturator vessels and nerve quit the pelvis; (2.) from the deep surface of the membrane which extends across the foramen; and (3.) from the surface of bone behind the