30 THE UPPER LIMB. and posterior walls of the space, and with the back of the blade towards the outer wall and axillary vessels. The knife may then be carried inwards towards the chest. But there are various nerves in relation to the walls of the axilla. Entering the deep surface of the anterior wall are the two anterior thoracic nerves for the supply of the two pectoral muscles. Upon the posterior wall are the three subscapular nerves., which supply the three muscles which constitute this boundary. Running downwards upon the inner wall is the nerve of Belt, or posterior thoracic nerve, while piercing it are the intercosio-humeral and upper lateral cutaneous nerves. In addition to the contents already enumerated, numerous lymphatic glands are lodged in the fat of the axillary space. Before proceeding with the dissection the student will do well to refer to Fig. 7. It represents a horizontal section through the right shoulder and axillary region, near the apex of the latter. The axilla appears as a triangular space, occupied for the most part by fat, but on its inner side the brachial plexus of nerves, the subclavian artery, close to the point at which it becomes the axillary artery, and the corre- sponding part of the subclavian vein may be seen. These structures are all cut transversely, as the section was made with the arm close to and parallel with the body. On the inner wall the first, second, and third ribs are seen in section with the intercostal muscles and serratus magnus ; on the outer wall the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles appear. Ajiteriorly, the pectoralis major, the pectoralis minor and sub- clavius close in the space; posteriorly, the subscapularis is seen. The student should bear in mind that it is only in frozen sections that the exact relations of the parts can be accurately studied. Much can be learned from a properly dissected axilla; but the large open space which is thus displayed differs widely from the small, triangular, inter- muscular recess which is seen in a frozen section. Figure 8 gives a view of a transverse section through the axillary space at a lower level, and with the arm still by the side. The trian- gular outline of the space is seen ; the boundaries and contents are also apparent. The great vessels and nerves will be observed to have shifted more to the outer side of the recess. Note further the tendons of insertion of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, which are cut in front of the shaft of the humerus.