THE UPPER LIMB. 32 The lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal nerve divides into an anterior and posterior part, and these are distributed in the ordinary way. From the posterior branch twigs are given to the skin of the axilla, and the terminal twigs are distributed to the integument on the upper part of the inner aspect of the arm. Lymphatic Glands.—In the subsequent dissection of the axilla the lymphatic glands must be removed as they are brought into view. The position which they occupy in the space should, however, in the first place, be care- fully noted. They are disposed in three groups—{a) a group lying close to the axillary vessels which receives the lymphatic vessels ascending from the limb; {b) a group of pectoral glands placed along the lower border of the pectoraUs minor, which are joined by the lymph- atics from the mammary gland and the front of the chest; ic) a group of subscapular glands, situated along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle on the posterior wall of the axilla, and into which the lymphatics of the back pour their contents. Dissection.—The loose areolar tissue and fat must now be cautiously removed from the hollow of the armpit. Begin by dissecting out the subscapular a7'tery and the long subscapular nerve. The guide to their position is the lower margin of the subscapularis muscle. In relation to the lower border of the pectoralis minor muscle the long thoracic a7'tery will be found. A vertical incision along the inner wall, a short distance anterior to the point where this joins the posterior wall, will display the external respiratory 7ierve, or the nerve of Bell, upon the axillary surface of the serratus magnus. These structures being secured, the dissector may proceed with his work more boldly, as the remaining contents of the space are not so liable to injury. The axillary artery and vein and the great brachial nerves may next be exposed. Note the close manner in which they cling to the outer wall of the axilla in the various movements of the limb, and then isolate them thoroughly by removing their areolar sheaths, and establish their individual identity. In dissecting these structures care must be taken to secure the small internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. This nerve is generally given off within the axilla in common with a muscular branch to the long head of the triceps, and it crosses the latissimus dorsi and