398 ABDOMEN. lower border of the aponeurosis folded back upon itself. Beiiveen these attachiimits it proceeds forwards over the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba and into the front of the OS pubis. In connection with this aponeurosis note that it is broadest and strongest inferiorly, that it is narrowest about the level of the umbilicus, but that it widens somewhat again towards the ribs. Superiorly it is so thin that the fibres of the rectus muscle shine through it. External Abdominal Ring (annulus inguinalis cutaneus) (Fig. 78).—In the male, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced immediately above the pubes by the spermatic cord; and in the female it is pierced, at the same point and in the same manner, by the round ligament of the uterus. The aperture, which is thus formed, receives the name of the external abdominal ring. At the present stage of the dissection, this opening is not visible, because a thin fascial covering is carried downwards from its lips upon the spermatic cord or round ligament of the uterus. This is called the external sper7iiatic or the i?itercohiinnar fascia. If the cord be raised and rendered tense, this covering will be observed to invest it completely, and to be somewhat funnel-shaped—wide above, but closing upon the cord as it is traced downwards. With the point of the knife divide the external spermatic fascia round the cord, and then, with the handle, define the margins of the external abdominal ring. When this is done, the dissector will observe that the term " ring," as applied to this opening, is calculated to convey to the mind an erroneous impression. It is not circular, but triangular, in shape. The direction of the opening is very oblique, the base of the triangle being formed by the crest of the pubes, whilst the apex is directed outwards and slightly upwards. The external abdominal ring, therefore, is merely a small gap or interval left between that portion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle which is inserted into