497 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. right to left along the lesser curvature of the stomach be- tween the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. It ends by inosculating with the coronary. The gastro-duodenal (arteria gastro-duodenalis) arises close to the pyloric artery, and is directed downwards behind the first part of the duodenum, at the lower border of which it ends by dividing into the superior pancreatico-duodenal and the right gastro-epiploic. The superior pancreatico-duodenal takes a curved course round the head of the pancreas, between it and the duo- denum, to both of which it gives branches. It ends by inosculating and forming an arch with the inferior pancreatico- duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The right gastro-epiploic (arteria gastro-epiploica dextra) is directed from right to left, along the greater curvature of the stomach, and between the two anterior layers of the great omentum. It gives branches upwards to both surfaces of the stomach, and downwards to the great omentum, and ends by anastomosing with the left gastro-epiploic, a branch of the splenic. The right and left hepatic arteries, the terminal branches of the hepatic, diverge from each other, and sink into the liver at the two extremities of the transverse fissure. From the right hepatic a small branch called the cystic is given to the gall-bladder. This divides into two twigs, one of which ramifies in the areolar tissue between the liver and gall- bladder, and the other upon the opposite surface of the gall- bladder immediately subjacent to its peritoneal covering. The cystic vein joins the vena portae or its right branch. The Splenic Artery (arteria lienalis), the largest branch of the coeliac axis, takes a wavy or tortuous course behind the lesser sac of the peritoneum to the left side, and ends near the spleen by dividing into five or six branches, which enter the organ on its concave surface. To obtain a good view of the splenic artery, it is necessary to throw the stomach upwards towards the ribs. The vessel VOL. I.—32