PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 37 mediately to the inner side of the sUght prominence caused by the coraco-brachialis muscle—will, with tolerable accuracy, indicate the course pursued by the vessel. The relations of the axillary artery vary very much as it traverses the armpit; and with the view of obtaining a greater precision of description, anatomists are in the habit of arbitrarily dividing the vessel into three parts, according to the position which it occupies with reference to the pectoralis minor muscle. The first part extends from the outer border of the first rib to the upper border of the pectoralis minor; the second part lies under cover of that muscle; the third part extends from the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the lower border of the teres major. The first part of the axillary artery lies very deeply. It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, cla- vicular part of the pectoralis major, and the costo-coracoid membrane. But, even when these are removed, the vessel is not completely exposed, because it is enveloped, along with the vein and great nerves, by a funnel-shaped sheath, which is prolonged upon them from the deep cervical fascia, and it is crossed by the cephalic and thoracic axis veins. The loop of communication between the two anterior thoracic nerves likewise lies in front of it. Posteriorly this part of the vessel is supported by the first intercostal space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus muscle, and the nerve of Bell crosses behind it. To its inner side., and somewhat overlapping it, is the axillary vein, whilst above and to its outer side are the large brachial nerve-trunks. The second part of the axillary artery is placed behind the two pectoral muscles, and has the three cords of the brachial plexus disposed around it. Thus the inner cord lies upon its inner side, the outer cord upon its outer side, and the posterior cord behind it. The axillary vein is still upon its inner side, but is separated from the artery by the inner nerve-cord. Strictly speaking, it is not in apposition with any muscle posteriorly, being separated