ABDOMEN. 592 lumbar arteries. It gives off a small spinal branch (ramus spinalis), which enters the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramen between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The iliac branch (ramus iliacus) breaks up into twigs, which run outwards, some in the substance of the iliacus muscle, and others between it and the bone ; of the latter set, one will be observed to enter the nutrient foramen in the ihac fossa. Reaching the crest of the ilium, the terminal branches of this vessel anastomose with the deep circumflex iliac and lumbar arteries. The gluteal artery (arteria glutsea superior) is the largest of the branches of the internal iliac. It has a very short course within the pelvis. Passing downwards between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, it leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and appears in the gluteal region in the interval between the pyriformis and gluteus minimus muscles. The lateral sacral (arteria sacralis lateralis) is usually represented by two arteries, which extend downwards upon the pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves, external to the anterior sacral foramina and the sympathetic cord. They furnish twigs to the parts upon which they lie, and branches which enter the sacral foramina (rami spinales). The latter, after supplying the membranes and nerve-roots within the sacral canal, emerge behind, through the posterior sacral foramina, and there anastomose with branches of the gluteal artery. The lower of the two lateral sacral arteries inoscu- lates inferiorly with the middle sacral. The Superior Hsemorrhoidal Artery (arteria hsemor- rhoidalis superior).—This is the continuation into the pelvis of the inferior mesenteric artery. It descends behind the rectum, between the two layers of its mesentery, and soon divides into two branches which extend downwards, one upon each side of the gut. Upon the second part of the rectum these branches break up into several twigs which surround the intestine. Approaching the anal canal they