THE LOWER LIMB. 256 subject, along the ligamentum teres into the head of the femur. Psoas and Iliacus.—These muscles arise within the abdo- men and enter the thigh behind Poupart's ligament. A tendon appears on the outer side of the psoas, and into this the fibres of the iliacus are for the most part inserted. The conjoined tendon of the ilio-psoas is implanted into the small trochanter of the femur, but a certain proportion of the fleshy fibres of the iliacus obtain direct insertion into the shaft of the femur below and in front of that prominence. Dissection.—Divide the femoral vessels, and the anterior crural nerve, about an inch below Poupart's ligament, and having tied them together with twine throw them downwards. Now cut through the sartorius and the rectus femoris about two inches from their origin and turn them aside. The tendon of the ilio-psoas must next be detached from its insertion and the muscle thrown upwards. This will expose the anterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. An intervening bursal sac will also be displayed. Open this and ascertain its extent by intro- ducing the finger. It facilitates the play of the ilio-psoas upon the front of the hip-joint, and in some rare cases it will be found to be directly continuous with the synovial membrane of this articulation through an aperture in the capsular ligament. The intimate connection which exists between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendon of the gluteus minimus, the reflected head of the rectus femoris, and the deep layer of the ilio-tibial band, should be noticed. Lastly, reflect the tensor fascice femoris, and carefully clean the capsule of the hip-joint. HIP-JOINT. It is necessary that the hip-joint be studied at this stage, as the further dissection of the limb can only be satisfactorily carried out after its removal from the trunk. The hip-joint is the most perfect example; of an enarthrodial or ball and socket joint in the body. It does not allow so free a range of move- ment as that which takes place at the shoulder-joint, but what it loses in this respect it gains in strength and stability. Its great strength and security depend: (i) upon the depth of the cotyloid cavity and the