THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT 339 ligaments is greater than that of the dorsal ligaments, and they are very largely formed by slips from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The dissector may now divide freely all the dorsal, and the innermost of the plantar scapho-cuneiform ligaments. The scaphoid bone can then be drawn backwards so as to expose the interior of the joint. The knife may also be carried romid the outer side of the external calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. A much better view of this ligament is thus ob- tained, although it entails the division of the dorsal scapho-cuboid ligament. The convex anterior articular surface of the scaphoid fits into a transversely concave socket, which is formed for it by the posterior surfaces of the three cuneiform bones, and often by a small facet on the inner surface of the cuboid bone as well. The articular surface of the scaphoid is divided by prominent ridges into areas or facets corre- sponding with the different parts of the socket in which it lies. The synovial membrane which lines this joint is pro- longed forwards into the intercuneiform joints. Scapho-cuboid and Cubo-cuneiform Articulations.—It has been noted that the anterior pillar of the longitudinal arch of the foot consists of an outer and an inner column. The tarsal portions of these are connected together by the scapho-cuboid and the cubo-cuneiform articulations. It is only occasionally that the scaphoid bone touches and articulates directly with the inner surface of the cuboid bone. When it does so, the facet on the cuboid bone lies in series with the articular surfaces on the hinder ends of the cuneiform bones, and forms with them the socket for the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The ligaments which bind the scaphoid to the cuboid bone are disposed trans- versely, and consist of—(i) a series of short strong ijiter- osseous fibres which bind the opposed surfaces together; (2) a dorsal band ; and (3) a plantar band. The dorsal band has previously been divided in exposing the interior of the scapho-cuneiform joint and in defining