578 ABDOMEX. Tr.r - . ter. introduced into the bladder, being held in the - : r 'ould pass the forefinger of the right hand into rt::: V. - : ir to distinguish by touch the parts in relation to the ir. -: : : - e gut. Passing beyond the bulb, the staff, as it lies ii: riie ziei— ra- us part of the urethra, will be felt very distinctly; next, the prostate will be encountered; and, immediately behind this, the finger, provided it is carried upwards exactly in the middle line, will rest upon the small triangular surface of the base of the bladder, which is in contact with the rectvim—the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fescia alone intervening. The Bladder.—This is a hollow viscus, with strong muscu'-Er vralls. which acts as a temporary reserv oir for the ur'nt. brfore :: is emitted from the body by the process of micturition. As will be readily understood, its form, and in a great measure its position and relations, are influ- enced by the quantity of fluid which it contains, ^^^len moderately distended, it assumes an oyoid shape. In this condition it presents for examination an apex and base ; a superior, inferior, and two lateral surfaces; and a neck. The long axis of the organ is nearly horizontal and is directed from before backwards, from the apex to the base. The apex or sumTuit of the bladder is directed forwards, and rests upon the posterior aspect of the anterior ab- dominal wall immediately aboye the pubis. From its centre a strong fibrous cord, the urachus, proceeds upwards in the middle line to the umbihcus.^ The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the apex; it clothes it as far forwards as the urachus, which conducts it to the abdominal wall. The base of the bladder looks backwards towards the conca\-ity - :-:r:r-:i"^ ;:r.:;:urr 2. developmental poin: c:-.-lew. I: - :r:^;;:r.- \\ : ::r r-:::on which exists between the 1:1; ' Irr a- " ;11:^: : 1 : \i .r.z z::.zryo. At an early stage c: - z r^- . e: -'r z ; : : ;.llantois consists of an extra-abdomir.; l r. : r. :r. 1:-:-:.l :n. which communicate with each other : : : :gl- the urr.bihcus. In course of time the extra-abdominal part disappears. Thr :=:e tf the intra-abdominal part is different; its lower portion is ce ^ ir.to the bladder, whilst its upper portion shrivels and be- ccir.ei .:.z urachus.