217 FRONT OF THE THIGH. The patellar branch of the long saphenous nerve pierces the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata on the inner side of the knee, and turns outwards and forwards in front of the joint below the level of the patella. Four of the cutaneous nerves of the thigh have been noticed to send twigs to the skin over the knee-joint, viz., the anterior division of the external cutaneous, the middle cutaneous, the anterior division of the internal cutaneous, and the long saphenous. These nerves communicate with each other and form an interlacement which is situated over the patella, the ligamentum patellae, and upper part of the tibia. It is termed the patellar plexus. On the inner side of the thigh two minute cutaneous nerve-twigs sometimes make their appearance which do not belong to any of the above main cutaneous trunks. One appears below the ilio-inguinal nerve, and is a twig from the long pudendal branch of the small sciatic; the other pierces the deep fascia half-way down the inner side of the thigh, and comes from the obturator nerve. Fascia Lata.—This is the name which is given to that portion of the general aponeurotic investment of the lower limb which clothes and preserves the figure of the thigh. It should be carefully cleaned by removing the remains of the superficial fascia. This being done, the dissector will be struck with the marked difference in strength which it shows on the outer and inner aspects of the thigh. Externally it is so dense and strong that it appears to be more tendinous than aponeurotic in its character. The reason of this is, that the tensor fasciae femoris muscle and the greater portion of the gluteus maximus are inserted into it upon this side of the limb. The strong band thus formed goes under the name of the ilio-tibial band., from its being attached above to the crest of the ilium, and below to the outer tuberosity of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. It acts as a powerful brace on the outer aspect of the limb, which in the erect posture helps to steady the pelvis, and at the same time keeps the knee-joint firmly extended. Internally, the fascia