565 PEL VIS. sented by a thin cellular membrane covering, the anterior aspect of the pyriformes muscles, and the sacral plexus of nerves. It is in consequence frequently described under the name of the fascia of the pyrifor7nis. Laterally^ it is strong and dense, and in this situation it covers the inner surface of the obturator internus muscle. Superiorly, it is attached for a distance of about one inch to the back part of the ilio-pectineal line, where it will be observed to be directly continuous with the fascia iliaca, which is inserted into the same line; but the attachment of both to the bone is weak; so that by passing a probe down behind the latter the continuity of the two membranes can be determined. In front of this, the line of attachment of the parietal pelvic fascia leaves the ilio-pectineal line; it descends obliquely along the superior border of the obturator internus muscle to the upper margin of the thyroid foramen, and, opposite the groove on the under surface of the ascend- ing ramus of the pubic bone, there is a break in its bony attachment. At this point it turns over the margin of the obturator internus, and, joining the thyroid membrane on the other side, converts the groove into a canal. From this onwards the line of attachment gradually sinks upon the posterior aspect of the body of the pubis, and, in front, it is found as low as the inferior border of the symphysis. There is thus a considerable part of the inner surface of the pelvis below the level of the ilio-pectineal line, and the crest of the pubis devoid of fascial lining. Here no continuity can be shown to exist between the iliac and pelvic fasciae, ex- cept through the medium of the periosteum. This part of the pelvic wall is therefore merely lined by extra-peritoneal tissue and the peritoneum. From the line of attachment thus indicated the parietal pelvic fascia descends upon the inner or deep surface of the obturator internus muscle, and is attached inferiorly to the tuberosity of the ischium through the medium of the falci- form edge of the great sciatic ligament, and also behind