46 THE UPPER LIMB. border of the subscapularis muscle, and ends in the teres major. Dissection.—The cords of the brachial plexus may now be divided. Begin with the inner and outer cords, because when these are thrown downwards a better view of the posterior cord and the three subscapular nerves will be obtained. When the posterior cord is cut the arm should be forcibly dragged away from the trunk, so as to put the serratus magnus on the stretch. Posterior Thoracic Nerve.—The external respiratory nerve of Bell, or the posterior thoracic nerve, as it passes down- wards upon the outer surface of the serratus magnus, may now be studied in its whole length. It is the nerve of supply to the serratus magnus, and it arises in the root of the neck by three roots from the brachial plexus. The upper two roots (one from the fifth cervical and the other from the sixth cervical nerve) pierce the scalenus medius, and uniting into one stem give off branches to the upper part of the serratus magnus. The third root takes origin from the seventh cervical nerve, and passes in front of the scalenus medius. It runs downwards for a considerable distance on the surface of the serratus magnus, before it unites with the other part of the nerve. The entire nerve, thus formed, can be followed to the lower part of the serratus, giving twigs to each of its digitations. The upper part of the nerve is very deeply placed, and passes behind the axillary vessels; the lower part on the side of the chest is comparatively superficial, being covered only by skin and fascia. Serratus Magnus Muscle.—The serratus magnus arises by fleshy digitations from the upper eight or nine ribs, about midway between their angles and cartilages. These slips are arranged on the chest-wall, so as to present a gentle curve convex forwards. The lower three or four interdigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The serratus magnus is inserted into the entire length of the vertebral border of the scapula. The muscle fa'lls naturally into three