230 THE LOWER LIMB. and internal circumflex arte?-ies will be seen to arise from the profunda femoris within Scarpa's triangle. The external circumflex should be traced outwards as it passes amongst the branches of the anterior crural nerve, to disappear under cover of the outer boundary of the space. The internal cii'ciimflex is lost to view shortly after its origin by sinking backwards through the floor of the space be- tween the pectineus and psoas muscles. The veins corre- sponding to these arteries must be cleaned at the same time. Certain nerves are also to be found in this space, viz.— (i) the crural branch of the genito-crural; (2) the external cuta?ieous ; and (3) the anterior crural. The crural h-anch of the gefiito-crural descends in the outermost compartment of the femoral sheath on the outer side of the femoral artery. It pierces the external wall of the sheath and the fascia lata a short distance below Poupart's ligament, and has already been traced to its distribution (p. 214). The external cutaneous 7ierve passes into the thigh behind Poupart's ligament, close to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It soon leaves the triangle by crossing the sartorius and piercing the fascia lata. It has already been traced in its ramifications in the superficial fascia on the outer aspect of the thigh. The anterior crural nerve will be detected lying deeply in the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles, about a quarter of an inch to the outer side of the femoral artery. Insinuate the handle of a knife under the main trunk, so as to raise it above the level of the muscles between which it lies, and render it tense, and then follow the numerous branches into which it breaks up as far as the limits of the space will allow. The minute twig to the pectineus muscle must be looked for with especial care. It passes inwards behind the femoral vessels. The floor of Scarpa's triangle slopes backwards both from the inner and outer boundary of the space. To the inner side of the femoral artery it is formed by the adductor longus