THE LOWER LIMB. In the interval between the gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris, the small ascending terminal bra7ich of the internal circumflex artery will be seen, whilst between the contiguous margins of the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus the larger transverse terminal branch of the same artery makes its appearance. The Inferior Gluteal Nerve is the nerve of supply to the gluteus maximus. It springs from the sacral plexus, and enters the gluteal region through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. During the reflection of the gluteus maximus it was seen to break up into numerous twigs which entered the deep surface of the muscle. Sciatic Artery.—The sciatic artery, which issues from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, proceeds downwards with the sciatic nerves under cover of the gluteus maximus. Finally reach- ing the lower border of that muscle, it is continued as a fine cutaneous twig to the back of the thigh, in company with the small sciatic nerve. It gives off numerous branches in the gluteal region. Of these the large muscular offsets to the gluteus maximus, and the cutaneous twigs that accom- pany the branches of the lesser sciatic nerve which turn round the lower border of that muscle, have been already studied. The following three branches remain to be ex- amined:—(i) the coccygeal branch, which passes inwards between the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments to reach the integument and fascia in the region of the coccyx ; a number of twigs derived from this branch have been previously noticed piercing the greater of the two ligaments and ending in the gluteus maximus; (2) comes ?iervi ischiadici, a minute artery, which runs downwards on the great sciatic nerve and finally penetrates into its substance; (3) the artery to the quadratus femoris., which accompanies the nerve to that muscle, and will be found lying on the innominate bone under cover of the great sciatic nerve. In a well-injected body the anastomosis between the