ABDOMEN. 366 sinks into the bulb, and is carried forwards through the entire length of the corpus spongiosum to its external opening on the glans penis. On either side of the urethral aperture there is a small opening in the ligament which gives passage to the corresponding artery to the bulb. Half an inch further forwards the dorsal 7ierve of the penis and the inter?ialpudic artery pierce the ligament on either side, close to the margin of the pubic arch, and under cover of the corresponding crus penis. The term ^'■inferior or superficial layer'' of the triangular ligament is frequently applied to this membrane, which im- plies that there is a deeper or superior layer to be studied in connection with it; and so there is. But whilst these layers are very intimately connected, they must be looked upon as being distinct structures. The superficial or inferior layer or the triangular ligament proper is in the same morpho- logical plane as the bony wall of the pelvis and the thyroid membrane, and, in fact, completes the pelvic wall in front. The superior or deep layer is simply the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia carried round to the front of the pelvis. Consequently the connections of this layer can be examined very much better in conjunction with the pelvic fascia. Suffice it for the present to say that inferiorly it is blended with the base of the triangular liga- ment, but that it recedes from the surface as it passes upwards, so that a space or interval is left between the two aponeurotic strata. Contained within this interval are the following structures :— 1. The membranous portion of the urethra. 2. The dorsal vein of the penis. 3. The compressor urethr^e muscles. 4. Cowper's glands. 5. The pudic vessels and nerves and the artery to the bulb. Dissection.—To expose these parts, the superficial layer of the triangular ligament must be raised upon one side of the body. It should be care- fully preserved upon the opposite side, for in the subsequent dissection of the pelvis it is required as a landmark. On the side selected detach