POPLITEAL SPACE. 201 forwards under cover of the tendon of the adductor magnus to reach the deep surface of the vastus internus muscle. The Inferior Articular Arteries arise from the popUteal as it Ues on the lower part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The i?iferior external articular artery {a. genu inferior lateralis) takes a transverse course outwards, under cover of the plantaris and outer head" of the gastrocnemius, to gain a point on the outer side of the knee, immediately above the head of the fibula. It proceeds onwards under cover of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The inferior ifiternal articular artery {a. genu inferior medialis) takes a very oblique course downwards and inwards, under cover of the inner head of the gastrocnemius, and along the upper border of the popliteus muscle, to gain the inner side of the tibia below the internal tuberosity. Here it turns forwards under cover of the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Azygos Articular Artery {a. genu media) springs from the popliteal as it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. It pierces this ligament to reach the synovial membrane. Popliteal Vein.—The popliteal vein is formed near the lower border of the popliteus muscle by the union of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. It runs upwards through the popliteal space, and, entering Hunter's canal through the opening in the adductor magnus, it becomes the femoral vein. The relations which it presents to the popliteal artery have already been detailed. In addition to tributaries corresponding to branches of the artery, it receives the external saphenous vein, which has been seen piercing the popliteal fascia to join it. By slitting it open with the scissors the dissector will see that it possesses three (sometimes four) valves in its interior. Obturator Nerve.—This minute nerve will be found lying upon the inner side of the popliteal artery. Trace it upwards, and it will be seen to enter the space by piercing the lower