SOLE OF THE FOOT. 313 spending ligament of the hand, inasmuch as it includes within its grasp the metatarsal bone of the hallux. Dissection.—A satisfactory display of the interosseous muscles cannot be obtained unless the transverse metatarsal ligament be divided be- tween the heads of the metatarsal bones. The toes can now be separ- ated more freely from each other, and the interosseous muscles traced to their insertions. It is well also to reflect at this stage the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Interosseous Muscles.—The pla?itar interosseous muscles are three in number, and are so placed that they adduct the three outer toes towards a line drawn through the second toe. They arise from the plantar aspects of the outer three metatarsal bones, and are inserted one upon the tibial side of each of the corresponding toes. The dorsal interosseous fimscles are four in number. They occupy the four intermetatarsal spaces, and consequently they must be dissected both upon the plantar and dorsal aspects of the foot. They are arranged so as to abduct the second, third, and fourth toes from a line drawn through the second toe. They are inserted, therefore, as follows :—the first upon the tibial side of the second toe; the seco?id upon the fibular side of the same toe; the third upon the fibular side of the third toe; and the fourth upon the fibular side of the fourth toe. The slender tendons of the interosseous muscles are only very shghtly attached to the bases of the proximal phalanges. They are for the most part inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendons on the dorsal aspect of the toes. Tendons of the Tibialis Posticus and Peroneus Longus. —Before leaving the sole of the foot the dissector must determine the precise insertions of the tendons of the tibialis posticus and the peroneus longus. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is not merely inserted into the tubercle of the scaphoid. Fibrous sHps are seen to spread out from it, and these may be traced to every bone of the tarsus with the exception of the astragalus, and also to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. As it