141 FOREARM AND HAND. of the radius, and also from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon is closely applied to that of the extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, and accompanies it under the posterior annular ligament. It may be traced on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the base of the proximal phalanx, into which it is inserted. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis (m. extensor longus pollicis) takes origin from the outer part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna in its middle third, and also from the interosseous membrane. It to some extent overlaps the preceding muscle, and ends in a tendon which passes under cover of the posterior annular ligament. Here it occupies a deep narrow groove on the back of the lower end of the radius. On the carpus it takes an oblique course, and, crossing the tendons of the two radial extensors and the radial artery, reaches the thumb. It is inserted into the base of the distal phalanx of that digit. When the thumb is powerfully extended in the living person the tendons of its three extensors become promi- nent on the outer aspect of the wrist. The oblique course of the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii is rendered evident, and a distinct depression between it and the other two tendons is seen. The Extensor Indicis Proprius arises below the preceding muscle from a limited area on the posterior surface of the ulna and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon accompanies those of the extensor communis under cover of the posterior annular ligament, and wall afterwards be traced to its insertion on the index finger. Posterior Interosseous Artery.—This vessel arises in the front of the forearm, from the common interosseous branch of the ulnar artery. It at once proceeds backwards be- tween the two bones of the forearm, in the interval between the upper border of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament. In the present dissection it makes its appearance between the contiguous borders of the supi-