4 THE UPPER LIMB. Reflection of the Skin.—The following incisions are necessary :— I, From the tip of the coccyx upwards, along the middle line of the body to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. 2. From the upper end of the foregoing mesial incision transversely outwards, to the inner border of the acromion process of the scapula. 3. From the lower extremity of the mesial incision in a curved direction outwards and forwards, along the crest of the ilium, to within two inches of the anterior superior iliac spine. 4. An oblique incision from the spine of the first lumbar vertebra, upwards and outwards, to the outer border of the acromion process. The two large flaps which are now mapped out upon the back must be carefully raised from the subjacent fatty tissue. Reflect the upper triangular flap first, and then deal in the same way with the lower flap. Superficial Fascia.—The fatty layer which is now ex- posed is termed the superficial fascia. It constitutes the cushion upon which the skin rests, rounds off the angu- larities of the body, and varies in thickness according to the obesity of the subject. In subjects that have lain for some time on the back it is usually more or less infiltrated with fluid which has gradually gravitated into its loose meshes. The superficial fascia constitutes the bed in which the cutaneous vessels and nerves ramify before they enter the skin; and it is separated from the muscles by a tough, but thin, layer of fibrous tissue, devoid of fat, which forms an investment for the body. This aponeurotic membrane receives the name of the deep fascia ; it can be readily demonstrated by making an incision in the superficial fascia, and raising a small portion of it. Dissection.—In searching for a cutaneous nerve, cut boldly down through the superficial fascia in the direction in which the nerve runs, until the plane at which the superficial and deep fasciae blend is reached. It is here that the main trunks are to be found ; and in a well injected subject the cutaneous arteries constitute the best guides. A more rapid way of finding the cutaneous nerves in this region is to reflect both fasciae outwards from the vertebral spines. The nerves are seen piercing the muscles. This plan, however, should only be adopted by the senior student. Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves.—The cutaneous nerves of the back are derived from the posterior primary divisions