I20 THE UPPER LIMB. to the nerves: the nerves are now in front, and the arteries behind. Upon the terminal phalanx the two collateral branches join to form an arch, from which proceed great numbers of fine twigs, to supply the pulp of the finger, and the bed upon which the nail rests. Each digital artery at the point at which it divides is joined by the corresponding interosseous branch of the deep palmar arch. The collateral branches give a liberal supply of twigs to the integument, sheaths of the tendons, and joints of the fingers. Median Nerve.—The median nerve enters the palm by passing behi?id the anterior annular ligament with the flexor tendons. In this part of its course it is enveloped by the synovial sheath which is wrapped around the tendons. Further, before it emerges it assumes a flattened form, and divides into two portions. Of these, the external divisioi is slightly the smaller of the two, and gives off—(i) a stout short branch to some of the intrinsic muscles of the thumb ; (2) three digital branches which go to the two sides of the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. The muscular branch takes origin at the lower border of the annular ligament, and at once turns outwards to supply the abductor pollicis, the superficial head of the flexor brevis polHcis, and the opponens pollicis. The digital nerves which run along the ulnar side of the thumb, and the radial side of the index, give several branches to the fold of integument which stretches between the roots of these digits ; whilst the long digital branch to the radial border of the index gives a minute twig to the first or outer- most lumbrical muscle. The larger internal division of the median nerve divides into two branches. Of these one runs towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and splits into the collateral branches for the adjacent sides of these digits. From this nerve a twig to the second lumbrical muscle is given off. The second branch of the internal division of