342 THE LOWER LIMB. and through this with the scapho-cuneiform synovial mem- brane. The bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones are supported by the cuboid, but that of the fourth, by its inner margin, articulates also with the external cuneiform. A separate synovial membrane is present in the articulation between the two outer metatarsal bones and the tarsus. Intermetatarsal Joints.—The bases of the metatarsal bones, with the exception of the first, articulate with each other, and are very firmly bound together. The ligaments which connect the bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are dorsal^ plantar, and interosseous. To bring the interosseous ligaments into view it is necessary to divide the dorsal ligaments, and then forcibly separate the bases of the bones from each other. They are strong bands which pass between the non-articular portions of the basal parts of the bones. They constitute the chief bond of union. In addition to these basal ligaments, the strong tra?is- verse metatarsal ligament unites the distal extremities of the metatarsal bones. This ligament has been previously de- scribed (p. 312). Synovial Cavities of the Foot.—There are six separate synovial cavities in connection with the tarsal, tarso-meta- tarsal, and inter-metatarsal articulations, viz.—(i) in the joint between the posterior facets of the astragalus and os calcis; (2) in the calcaneo-cuboid joint; (3) in the joint formed by the head of the astragalus, the scaphoid, the sustentaculum tali, and the two calcaneo-scaphoid liga- ments ; (4) a complicated synovial membrane which lines the scapho-cuneiform articulations, and is prolonged forwards between the cuneiforms, and also between the cuboid and external cuneiform bones. This synovial membrane, how- ever, is not confined to the tarsus, but reaches forwards into the articulation between the second and third meta- tarsal bones and the tarsus, as well as into the joints be- tween the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal