638 ABDOMEN. which enclose the ovary leave it. Everywhere else it presents a free surface. The name of " hilum," on the other hand, is given to this margin because the vessels, nerves, and lym- phatics enter and leave the organ along its whole length. The posterior border of the ovary is free, and looks slightly inwards towards the rectum as well as backwards. The Fallopian tube in the natural position of the pelvic organs encircles the greater part of the circumference of the ovary. It may be well to state here that anatomists are by no means unanimous on the question of the typical position of the ovary. Kolliker considers that it lies obliquely, with its long axis parallel to the external iliac vessels. Hasse believes that the long axis is directed forwards and out- wards ; whilst Schultze figures the ovaries with their long axes directed from before backwards. The author has given preference to the views of His and Waldeyer, because they are in accordance with his own observations. The ovary is completely surrounded by peritoneum, except along its hilum. The membrane, however, does not present so highly polished an appearance as in other parts of the abdominal cavity. This is due to a change in the form of the surface epithelium, which is placed over the ovary. Before puberty the surface of the ovary is smooth and uniform. After this period, however, it becomes scarred and puckered from the breaches which are made by the escape of the ova from the Graafian follicles. Parovarium, or the Organ of Rosenmiiller.—This structure is of interest because it is the representative of the epididymis in the male. It is somewhat triangular in form, and will be discovered by an attentive examination of that portion of the broad ligament of the uterus which stretches between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. Its apex is directed towards the former, and its base towards the latter; but it lies free between the two layers of the ligament, and is not connected with either. In structure it will be seen to consist of a number of tubules which radiate from the apex of the body and are joined together by a longitudinal tube (the