ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 457 The pyloric orifice., or the opening into the duodenum, is at the lower end of the stomach, and is directed backwards in the natural condition of parts. Its position is rendered evident by a slight constriction which marks the junction of the stomach with the small intestine. The surfaces of the distended stomach are convex. The anterior surface., which bulges more than the posterior sur- face, looks forwards and upwards. It is largely covered by the liver, but below the sharp margin of that organ it is in apposition with the diaphragm, which separates it from the lower costal arches of left side, and also with the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall. The posterior sur- face looks backwards and downwards, and rests upon the spleen, the upper part of the left kidney, the left suprarenal capsule, the pancreas and the transverse meso-colon. The borders of the stomach are termed its curvatures. The right or upper border forms the lesser curvature. It extends from the cardiac orifice to the pylorus, and is concave. From this curvature passes a fold of peritoneum, called the gastro-hepatic omentum, which connects the stomach to the under surface of the liver. The left or lower border, called the greater curvature on account of its great length, is convex, and from this hangs downwards the peritoneal fold, termed the great omentum. Position of the Stomach.—It is a difficult matter to say anything definite regarding the position of the stomach, as the space which it occupies within the abdominal cavity varies so much with the amount of food which it contains. It lies in the left hypochondriac and the epigastric regions. When empty, about equal parts are contained in these regions, and the pyloric opening corresponds, as a rule, to the mesial plane. The greater part of the viscus, under these conditions, is nearly vertical in its direction. This vertically-placed portion of the organ may be said to com- prise three-fourths of its bulk. The pyloric fourth is more or less horizontal, and its opening is situated about half-