ii6 THE UPPER LIMB. Dissection.—The palmaris brevis should be reflected by detaching its fasciculi from their origin, and turning them inwards. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the ulnar artery and nerve, which lie under cover of it, and a little nerve-filament from the latter should be traced into its substance. The granular fat should next be removed from the palm, and the dense palmar fascia cleaned. Towards the roots of the fingers the digital vessels and nerves, together with the lumbrical muscles, appear in the intervals between the slips into which the palmar fascia divides. These should be defined, and it will be seen that they pass downwards under cover of the superficial transverse liga- ment. Having noted this point, remove the ligament. The digital arteries and nerves for the inner side of the little finger, and the outer side of the index, appear beyond the area of the central part of the deep fascia, higher up than the others, and are consequently liable to injury, unless it be remembered that they occupy this position. Palmax Fascia.—The deep fascia of the palm is com- posed of three portions—a central and two lateral. The lateral parts are thin and weak, and are spread over the muscles which constitute the thenar and hypothenar eminences on the outer and inner margins of the palm. The central portion of the palmar fascia, on the other hand, is exceedingly strong and dense, and is spread out over the middle of the palm. It counteracts the effect of pressure in this region, and effectually protects the ves- sels, nerves and tendons, over which it is stretched.. Its strength differs considerably in different hands, and it is seen to best advantage in the horny hand of a labourer, or of a mechanic who has been in the habit of handling heavy implements. In shape it is triangular. Above, it is narrow and pointed, and at the wrist it is attached to the anterior annular ligament, and receives the insertion of the flattened tendon of the palmaris longus. As it approaches the heads of the metacarpal bones it expands, and finally divides into four slips, which separate slightly from each other, and pass to the roots of the four inner digits. It gives no slip to the thumb. For the most part it is composed of longitudinal fibres, but, where it divides, a series of strong and very evident