PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 25 bilaminar tendon of the pectoralis major is the direct continuation of the axillary fold, and its two laminae are thus united, or, in other words, continuous below. The precise manner in which it is attached will be more fully studied at a later stage of the dissection (p. 55). The Axilla may be defined as being the hollow or recess between the upper part of the side of the chest and the upper part of the arm. When the limb is abducted from the trunk, and the areolo-fatty tissue which occupies the armpit is removed, the space presents a distinctly pyramidal form. The apex, or narrow part of the space, placed immediately to the inner side of the coracoid process, is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, whilst the wider part or base looks downwards. But the space is not absolutely pyramidal in form, for the inner wall formed by the chest is of greater extent than the outer wall formed by the arm. It follows from this, therefore, that the anterior and posterior walls converge as they proceed outwards. Before engaging in the dissection of the space, it is neces- sary that the student should have some knowledge of its boundaries, and the manner in which its contents are disposed in relation to these. Boundaries of the Axilla.—The anterior wall is formed by the two pectoral muscles and the costo-coracoid mem- brane. The pectoralis major constitutes the superficial stratum, and is spread out over the entire extent of the anterior wall. The pectoralis minor, which lies subjacent to the greater pectoral muscle, is only in relation to about one-third of the anterior boundary, whilst the interval or gap between this muscle and the clavicle is filled up by the costo-coracoid membrane. The lower border of this wall of the axilla constitutes its anterior fold, as already explained. This is formed by the lower margin of the pectoralis major, with a small part of the lower border of the pectoralis minor, which comes into view near the side of the chest.