127 FOREARM AND HAND. posed of transverse fibres, and it acquires a great thickness and density forming a distinct arch, called the vaginal liga- ment. Such an arrangement over the joints, however, would seriously interfere with the free flexion of the fingers, and therefore in front of the articulations between the phalanges the sheath is exceedingly thin, and is strengthened by oblique interlacing fibres. The flexor tubes in front of one or more of the fingers may now be opened. They will be seen to be lined by a synovial sheath, which is reflected over the enclosed tendons so as to give each a separate investment. The synovial sheath of the little finger has been seen to be a direct pro- longation from the carpal synovial sheath; the other three are distinct from this, and are carried upwards into the palm. They envelope the tendons of the ring, index, and middle fingers, as far as a line drawn across the palm immediately above the heads of the metacarpal bones. If the flexor tendons be raised from the phalanges certain synovial folds will be noticed connecting them to the bones. These are termed the vincula accessoria. Of these we dis- tinguish two kinds, viz., ligamenta brevia and longa. In the accompanying illustration (Fig. 30) the connections of these may be seen. The ligamenta brevia (5 and 6) are triangular folds, which connect the tendons near their insertions to the anterior face of the phalanx. The liga7iienta longa (4) are not invariably present. They are placed higher up, and are narrow, weak folds which pass between the tendons and the bones. The insertions of the two tendons can now be studied. In front of the first phalanx the tendon of the flexor sub- limis becomes flattened and folded round the subjacent cylindrical tendon of the flexor profundus. It splits into two parts, which pass behind the tendon of the flexor profundus, and allow it to pass onwards between them. Behind the deep tendon the two portions of the tendon of the flexor sublimis become united by their margins, and