MALE FERINE mi. 367 the ligament from the margin of the pubic arch, and, cautiously raising it from the subjacent structures, throw it inwards towards the bulb. Membranous Portion of the Urethra.—The canal of the urethra is subdivided for descriptive purposes into three parts, according to the structures which are in relation to its walls as it passes from the bladder to its termination on the glans penis. These are—(t.) the prostatic portion ; (2.) the membranous or muscular portion ; and (3.) the spongy portion. Each of these subdivisions has a very definite relation to the triangular ligament; the prostatic part is placed behind this ligament; the membranous part is situated between the two layers of the ligament, whilst the spongy portion lies in front of the ligament. Now that the superficial layer of the triangular ligament is removed upon one side, the student can readily feel with the point of the finger the staff as it lies within the membranous portion of the urethra. He should examine also its sur- roundings. It is the shortest subdivision of the urethra, and is distant about one inch from the symphysis pubis. Throughout its entire extent it is enveloped by the fibres of the compressor urethra, and on this account it is some- times called the muscular part of the urethra. On each side, and at a lower level, are Cowper's glands, whilst between it and the symphysis pubis is the dorsal vein of the penis as it extends backwards between the two layers of the triangular ligament. The Compressor or Constrictor Urethrse is a fan-shaped muscle. It has a narrow tendinous origin from the pubic arch close to the junction of the pubic and ischial rami. Expanding as it passes inwards towards the urethra, its fibres arrange themselves into two layers, which enclose between them the entire extent of the membranous portion of the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides meet there- fore in the middle line, and the muscular fibres which compose the two layers are inserted into a median raphe, both upon the upper and lower aspects of the urethra.