BACK OF THE ARM. 85 the teres minor and subscapularis muscles. From the lower border of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle an aponeurotic slip proceeds, which joins the long head of the triceps upon its inner aspect. This slip has been already alluded to as a remnant of the dorsi-epitrochlearis muscle of the lower animals. The two humeral heads take origin from the posterior aspect of the humerus, and if it be borne in mind that no fibres arise from the musculo-spiral groove, and that this groove intervenes between the origins of these heads, their connections will be easily understood. The dissector should provide himself with a humerus, and, having first identified the musculo-spiral groove, proceed to map out the areas of attachment of the humeral heads of the triceps as they are exhibited in the dissected part. The outer head (caput laterale) of the triceps arises from the outer and posterior aspect of the shaft of the humerus, above the level of the musculo-spiral groove. It takes origin, by short tendinous fibres, along a line which descends verti- cally from the insertion of the teres minor above to the upper border of the musculo-spiral groove below. But it also de- rives fibres from a strong aponeurotic bridge or arch, which is thrown over the groove, so as to give protection to the superior profunda artery and the musculo-spiral nerve. The strength and position of this arch can be tested by thrusting the handle of the knife downwards and outwards in the musculo-spiral groove, and along the course of the nerve and artery under the external head of the triceps. By its lower end the arch is connected with the external inter- muscular septum. The inner head (caput mediale) of the triceps is placed below the musculo-spiral groove. It sends upwards, on the posterior aspect of the humerus, and along the inner margin of the groove, a narrow pointed fleshy slip, which obtains origin from the bone as high as the insertion of the teres major muscle. Below, it widens out and arises by short