341 THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. they will be seen stretched and tense. If the force be continued they will rupture. The interosseous ligaments are three in number, viz., an internal, a middle, and an external. The internal interosseous ligament is an exceedingly strong band, which passes forwards and outwards from the anterior part of the outer surface of the internal cuneiform bone to the adjacent surface of the base of the second metatarsal bone. The middle interosseous ligament is small, and passes forwards between the anterior part of the inner surface of the external cuneiform and the adjacent surface of the base of the second metatarsal. The external interosseous ligament passes from the outer surface of the external cunei- form bone to the outer side of the base of the third meta- tarsal. One interosseous " ligament therefore passes from each of the cuneiform bones, and of these two are attached to the base of the second, and the third to the base of the third metatarsal bone. Tarso-metatarsal Articular Surfaces.—The manner in which the metatarsus is implanted upon the tarsus should now be examined. The first metatarsal rests upon the internal cuneiform, and this joint possesses a separate synovial membrane. The second metatarsal rests upon the middle cuneiform, but its base is grasped by the pro- jecting anterior ends of the internal and external cuneiform bones, with both of which it articulates, and with both of which it is connected by interosseous ligaments. No wonder then that this metatarsal should possess so little power of independent movement, and present a difficulty to the surgeon when he is called upon to amputate the fore-part of the foot through the tarso-metatarsal articula- tions (Hey's operation). The third metatarsal rests upon the external cuneiform. The synovial membrane which lines the joints between the tarsus and the second and third metatarsal bones is continuous with that which is present between the internal and middle cuneiform bones.