417 ABDOMINAL WALL. bone, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is partially blended. Internal Abdominal Ring (annulus inguinalis abdomi- nahs).—We have seen that the transversalis fascia is pierced by the spermatic cord. The opening through which it passes is called the internal abdominal ring. This opening can only be defined from the front by an artificial dissection—viz., by dividing the infundibuliform fascia around the cord, and pushing it upwards with the handle of the knife. The ring thus defined will be observed to lie about half-an-inch above Poupart's ligament, at a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Through the opening the dis- sector can see the extra-peritoneal fat upon which the trans- versaHs fascia rests, and immediately internal to the opening he will notice the deep epigastric artery, pursuing its oblique course upwards and inwards, and shining through the fascia. If the handle of the knife be now introduced into the ring and carried outwards between the fascia and extra-peritoneal fat, the attachments of the fascia to Poupart's ligament and to the iliac crest can be very clearly shown. Inguinal Canal.—The dissector has observed that the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female pierces the abdominal wall above Poupart's ligament. The passage which is formed for their transmission receives the name of the ingui?ial canal. Now, as this canal is a source of weakness to the abdominal wall, and as it is in connection with it that inguinal hernia occurs, the student will understand how necessary it is that he should examine it carefully from all points of view. The inguinal canal is a narrow groove or channel o'f about one inch and a-half in length. It begins at the internal abdominal ring, which may be spoken of as its inlet, and ends at the external abdominal ring, which constitutes its outlet. It is, consequently, very oblique, having a direction almost directly inwards, with a slight inclination downwards VOL. I,—27