THE LEG. 263 flat internal surface of the shaft of the tibia is also sub- cutaneous below the level of the insertion of the sartorius, and the inner border of the bone can be followed very readily throughout its entire length. The fibula is more deeply placed, and the upper half of its shaft cannot be felt from the surface owing to the manner in which it is surrounded by muscles. The head of the bone, however, is very evident where it articulates with the outer and back part of the tuberosity of the tibia; and for a short distance above the external malleolus the shaft of the fibula is subcutaneous over a triangular area which is interposed between the peroneus tertius muscle in front and the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis muscles behind. The two malleoli form marked projections in the region of the ankle. The internal malleolus is the broader and more prominent of the two; it does not descend so low down, however, and when viewed from the front it is observed to reach further forwards. This latter appearance is due to its greater breadth, because when examined from behind the posterior borders of the two projections are seen to occupy very much the same plane. On the posterior aspect of the leg the prominence known as the " calf of the leg " is visible. This is largely due to the fleshy bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle. Below the calf and immediately above the heel the powerful tendo Achillis can be felt. On either side and in front of this tendon a slight hollow is apparent. As the skin is reflected from the dorsum of the foot during the dissection of the leg, the present opportunity should be seized for studying the surface anatomy of the foot. The individual tarsal bones cannot be recognised through the integuments which cover the dorsum of the foot; but if the foot be powerfully extended the head of the astragalus will be brought into view in the shape of a slight prominence. The margins of the foot require very careful study, because it is by the recognition of certain