BACK OF THE THIGH. 203 the trunk of the small sciatic nerve, which passes down in the middle line of the limb immediately subjacent to the fascia. Hamstring Muscles.—The hamstring muscles are three in number, viz., the biceps, the semitendinosus, and the semimembranosus. They stretch from the tuberosity of the ischium to the upper ends of the tibia and fibula. The biceps is recognised from its diverging outwards to form the outer and upper boundary of the popliteal space. The se?nitendinosus and semimembranosus extend downwards on the inner side of the posterior aspect of the thigh, the former on the superficial aspect of the latter. In cleaning these muscles the dissector should proceed cautiously to work, otherwise he is certain to injure the arterial and nervous twigs which enter them. The latter may be easily secured by pulling upwards the upper part of the great sciatic nerve, and at the same time gently separating the muscles with the fingers. The Biceps Flexor Cruris arises by two heads—a long^ or ischial., and a short, or femoral—and is inserted chiefly into the head of the fibula. The long head arises from the ischium by a tendon which is common to it and the semi- tendinosus. This is implanted into the inner of the two impressions which mark the upper part of the tuber ischii. Some fibres from the great sacro-sciatic ligament are con- tinued into it. The short head arises from the back of the femur below the insertion of the gluteus maximus, viz., from the outer lip of the linea aspera, from the upper half of the external supracondyloid ridge, and from the external inter- muscular septum. Its parallel fibres run obliquely down- wards and outwards, and join the anterior and inner surface of the tendon of insertion. This tendon, on the outer aspect of the knee-joint, is split into an anterior and a posterior part by the external lateral ligament. Both are inserted into the head of the fibula in front of the styloid process, but the posterior slip gives an aponeurotic extension