how fully I recognised the achievements of the dead master from his first epoch-making publications, and how greatly I prized the personal friendship which he extended towards me. In truth, the lessons that I received from him in his labcratory— a very modest one according to present conditions—and the introduction to his work which I owe to him, form -one of the pleasantest and most lasting recollections of my visit to Kensington. The most competent witness of Huxley's earliest period of development, Professor Foster, presented in the first of these lectures a picture of the rapidly increasing extension of the biological knowledge, which must have excited not only our admiration but also the emulation of all who study medicine. Upon me the duty is incumbent of incorporating with this presentment the newer strides of knowledge, and of stating their influence upon the art of healing. So great a task is this that it would be presumptuous even to dare to attempt its accomplishment in a single lecture. I have decided, there- fore, that I must confine myself to merely sketching the in- fluence of biological discoveries upon medicine. In this way also will the example of Huxley be most intelligible to us. Huxley himself, though trained in the practical school of Charing Cross Hospital, won his special title to fame in the domain of biology. As a matter of fact at that time even the name of biology had not come into general use. It was only recently, as I showed in my lecture " On the Position of Patho- logy amongst Biological Studies,^" that the idea of life itself obtained its full significance. Even in the late middle ages it had not sufiicient strength to struggle through the veil of dogmatism into the light. I am glad to be able to-day, for the second time, to credit the English nation with the service of having made the first attempts to define the nature and character of life. It was, as I then pointed out, Francis Glisson, who, following expressly in the footsteps of Paracelsus, investigated the principium vita. If he could not elucidate the nature of life he at least recognised its main characteristic. This is what he was the first to describe as " irritability," the property on which the energy of living matter depends. He thus succeeded in.setting aside the mystical idea of the spiritualistic Archceus which Paracelsus and his followers had placed in the forefront of their deliberations, and in locat- ing the principiuvi energeticum in matter itself. How great was the step from Paracelsus to Glisson and—we may continue—from Glisson to Hunter ! According to Para- celsus, life was the work of a special spiritiis which set material substance in action, like a machine; for Glisson matter itself was the princiinum enei-geticicm. Unfortunately, he did not confine this dictum to living substances only, but applied it to substance in general, to all matter. It was Hunter who first announced the specific nature of living