19 rapidly became sexually ripe in the bowel, and produced not alone ova, but also living embiyos and larvae. Thus one comes to the worms which live in the blood, distomata and fllaria5, and which later wander into the tissues. They all have a period during which they have their dwelling as organo- zoa in the midst of the living tissues of the organism, and become so perfectly incoi-porated that they cany on their own lives just like the proper cells. Quite new and pertaining exclusively to the investigations of our own time are the parasitic protozoa, beings of so rudimentary a kind that their position in the biological system is even yet not quite clear. Chief among these are the protozoa of malaria, quite micro- scopical organisms, many of which are such pigmies that they can penetrate into the smallest cells, such as the red blood coi-puscles. The darkness which for thousands of years had enveloped a group of most dangerous diseases—the tropical fevers—has been dispelled by the discoveiy of these tiny creatures. Important links in the history of these parasites are still wanting ; we know nothing definite as to their origin or their career outside the great organisms which are their temporary dwelling place, and nothing, also, as to their mode of action within these organisms, but we hold the threads by means of which perfect knowledge must be attained. Lastly comes the equally new field of microscopic plants which appear sometimes as mere grains (cocci), at others as minute rods or chains (bacilli), and from which many of the most severe diseases, the ilite of the parasitic infectious mala- dies, take origin. Their recognition began with the study of two veiy great and most widely spread processes, ferment- ation and putrefaction. It will ever remain the imperishable merit of Pasteur, not only to have firmly established the de- pendence of these processes on the activity of microbes, but to have elucidated the further life-histoiy of the germs and their power of producing active chemical or physico-chemical sub- stances. Here for the first time were subjected to experiment parasitic beings which live and carry on their work outside the organism. Hence has been attained the wonderful result which has unlocked new methods both in medicine and in technical science. Above all, the results of microscopical re- search have been supported by trustworthy experiments, and their significance raised above all doubts ; hence pathology in particular has won in directions which had hithei-to been shunned by all who studied the nature of its processes, a clearness and certainty which has been reached in few other fields. The first great stride in the special domain of pathology was made in veterinaiy medicine. The discoveiy by Brauell of the anthrax bacillus opened the long series of new, and as we now call them, pathogenic bacilli. It would lead too far afield to refer to all of these, or even to enumerate them ; it