4 liaiu uf the bdioola, thrown upon the use of his own intellect, compellod to test each single object as regards properties and history, he soon forgets the dogmas of the prevailing system and becomes first a sceptic and then an investigator. This change, which did not fail to affect Huxley, and through which arose that Huxley whom we commemorate to-day, is no unknown occurrence to one who is acquainted with the history not only of knowledge but also of individual scholars. We need only point to John Hunter and Darwin as closely allied examples. The path on which these men have achieved their triumphs is that which biology in general has trodden with ever-widen- ing strides since the end of last century; it is the path of genetic investigation. We Germans point with pride to our countryman who opened up this road with full conviction of its importance, and who directed towards it the eyes of the world—our poet-prince Goethe. What he accomplisliwd in particular for plants others of our fellow-countrymen achieved for animals. I recall Casper Friedrich Wolf, Dollinger, Joh. Priedricli Meckel, Carl von Baer, and our whole embiyological school. As Harvey, Haller, and Hunter had once done, so these men began also with the study of the " ovulum," but this very soon showed that the egg was itself organised, and that from it arose the whole series of organic developments. When Huxley after his return came to publish his funda- mental observations, he found the history of the progressive transformations of the contents of the egg already verified, for it was by now known that the egg was a cell, and that from it fresh cells, and from them organs, arose. The second of his three famous papers, that on the relationship between man and the animals next beneath him, limned in exemplary fashion the parallelism in the earliest development of all animal beings. But beyond this it stepped boldly across the border-line which tradition and dogma had drawn between man and beast. Huxley had no hesitation infilling the gap which Darwin had left in his argument, and in explaining " that in respect of substance and structure man and the lower animals are one." Whatever opinion one may hold as to the origin of man- kind, the conviction as to the fundamental correspondence of human organisation with that of animals is at present uni- versally accepted. All biological science, especially physi- ology and pathology, creates hence the impulse to corresponding studies, and in particular all that has to be based on experi- ment must in the first instance be investigated in animals, while all that requires morphological confirmation finds support in comparative anatomy, histology, and embryology. Tlie basis of our comprehension of the tlieory of medicine actually rests nowadays on minute microscopy, for the elaboration of which the animal tissues form an indispensable