16 although doubtless a kind of unitary structure of a generally - similar type, is nevertheless in a double sense a socially con- stituted organ. Not only is it composed of numberless inde- pendent cells and cell territories of dissimilar kinds • apart from the vessels and nerves, of the connective tissue the cutis proper, and the horny epithelial tissue, which forms also hairs and glands, the individual constituents of the skin have a special disposition and are exposed to various external and internal influences. This is best shown by the numer- ous morbid states to the definite scientific classification of which English dermatologists so early devoted themselves. The existence of maculae, papules, pustules, and all the various other kinds of skin spots is demonstrated by the fact that in the skin a large number of little communities may be noted from the first as independent or hereditary factors of a particular predisposition. When mothers' marks (n^vi), hairs, or even spines grow from them, it follows that in spite of their common origin there must exist a lasting difi'erence between the various localities. There is another highly remarkable question which every year claims the attention of medical men more and more; this is what was described in the old medicine as aberratio /oci, in the new a,^ heterotopia. It has long been known that hairs are present, not alone on the external skin, to which they properly belong, but also in internal organs where they are quite out of place ; and further, that other cutaneous structures, such as epidermis, sebaceous glands, and cutis appear in such places. We unite this whole group under the general term " dermoids." Modern histologists have long struggled against this theory of aberration, but they have finally had to quit the field, and the view has become dominant that as a matter of fact even in foetal life smaller or greater rudimentary fragments can be separated from their natural places of abode, and removed to other spots, where they, so to speak, find a new home, and can undergo all the further changes which are dependent on their cutaneous nature. It is thus that cysts and other tumours can arise from them. The most remarkable examples of such heterotopias are afforded by certain glandular organs which under normal conditions present communities of similar parts, arranged in special divisions. Among them a high place is taken by two organs which have recently demanded much attention, the thyroid and the suprarenal glands. On their surface may often be observed the pushing forward and progressive isola- tion of separate parts in the form of nodules or small lobes. But occasionally these nodules pass completely out of associa- tion with the main body of the gland, and arc found discon- nected in a perfectly strange place more or less removed from their seat of origin. The farthest journeys are those of the