9 the body of a cell. Hence the original amoi-phous substance would be the special constructive material, while the nucleus was the true cell builder ; Schwann called the former cysto- blastem, the latter cystoblast. It is obvious that from these premisses people must have been logically led to the conclusion that every form of organic tissue or organism, eveiy kind of new cell must be separated from the preceding by a definite gap (hiatus), so that each new formation must be grouped as a discontinuous vital origin. Strangely enough, this classification arose and was accepted at a time when Darwin was already at work proving that new species arise by the modification of pre-existing forms. But Schwann's cell theory was in truth a resuscitation of the archaic doctrine of spontaneous generation Qjeneratio mquivoca, epigenesis). With the rule of such a creed Darwinism was incompatible. The supports of this generatio cequivoca have been, as far as zoology is concerned, gradually demolished. The forma- tion of tissue cells from the egg and its partition has been observed throughout the whole animal kingdom. Apparently eggless animals, such as the cestoids and trichinse, have one after the other been brought under Harvey's law; we know their eggs, their embryos, and their wanderings. There remains, in fine, but one great domain, though this is of the highest importance : it belongs particularly to pathology, and is that of the plastic exudates, which accompany the most important clinical processes, particularly the inflam- matory. It will readily be understood that so essentially pathological a subject would have but little interest for pure natural philosophers. They left it to medical men, who have to occupy themselves with it all day long. But in medicine this territory was held sacred; no one doubted that therei n spoke old, well-attested experience. We old students were endowed with the so-called theorem of the plastic exudate s from our earliest studies. Translated into our latterday parlance, such a theorem would recognise discontinuity in most pathological new formations; it would establish —and this is well worthy of note—the grounds for the dogma of the origin of life from non-living matter. Experience has taught us the exact opposite. Permit me here, gentlemen, to speak a little more person- ally than is elsewhere my intention. Perhaps it will be more intelligible to the students of this hospital, and will make more impression if I narrate how I myself arrived at quite other views. It was towards the end of my academical studies, more than fifty years ago, that I had to take up the work of assistant in the ophthalmic clinic of the Charity Hospital at Berlin. My attention was at once directed to the diseases of the