matter as contrasted with non-living. But lie also did not attain perfect clearness of vision, because in the development of English medicine the idea had been 'allowed to take root and grow, that life was not bound up with structure, so that Hunter also was led to place a materia vitce diffusa at the head of his physiological and pathological views. Hence he arrived at the assumption of the so-called plastic substances in respect of which the blood served both as rallying-point and seat of formation, and so it happened that in place of the old Greek humoral pathology which Paracelsus had overthrown, a new humoral pathology arose—ha3matology. According to the teaching of Hewson and Hunter, the blood supplied the plastic materials of physiology as well as the plastic exudates of pathology. Such was the basis of the new biological method, if one can apply such an expression to a still incomplete doctrine, in 1842 when Huxley was beginning his medical studies at Charing Cross Hospital. Of pathology in England, John Hunter was the accepted master, and so remained for many years thereafter. So great was his influence that Continental medicine also recognised it. To this I can myself testify, as I was at this time at the end of my university studies. It would lead too far afield were I to recount in this place how it happened that I myself, like Huxley, was early weaned from the pernicious doctrines of humoral pathology ; it must suffice to say that salvation lay in the same science which had already once before, in the sixteenth century, brought about deliver- ance from humoral pathology. It then came about that Vesalius threw over the authority of Galen and founded human anatomy upon direct observation, on necropsy. Since then anatomical studies have been much widened and im- proved. When Huxley himself left Charing Cross Hospital, in 1846, he had enjoyed a rich measure of instruction in anatomy and physiology. How great this was can be gathered from the interesting statistics which Professor Foster has col- lected with the aid of Huxley's distinguished fellow student, Sir Joseph Fayrer. Of the lectures which junior students attended, one hundred and forty in each of the three years of study were devoted to anatomy and physiology. Thus trained, Huxley took the post of naval surgeon, and by the time that he returned, four years later, had become a perfect zoologist and a keen-sighted ethnologist. How this was possible anyone will readily understand who knows from his own experience how great the value of personal observation is for the develop- ment of independent and unprejudiced thought. For a young man who, besides collecting a rich treasure of positive know- ledge, has practised dissection and the exercise of a critical judgment, a long sea-voyage and a peaceful sojourn among entirely new surroundings afford an invaluable opportunity for original work and deep reflection. Freed from the forma-