24 the body. These exhibit numerous analogies with microbes. They also are independent living beings, or, as Brucke said', elemental organisms implanted in the social structure of the body. They can be removed, transplanted, and grafted in a new situation. If they increase, and thus form a tumour this can produce metastases by transplantation. But the process as such is always bound up with a certain number of living elements, is always cellular in character. It is not the flowing blood which makes a tumour or a cell ; it is the mother cells, from which all new formation originates. From this consideration I have for decades drawn the con- clusion that the local action of the cells, bound up as it is with certain matricial parts, dominates pathological laws, and must also determine the practice of physicians and sur- geons. Cellular pathology demands above all treatment attacking the affected parts themelves, be this treatment medical or surgical. It is with great joy that I see this deduc- tion ever becoming more widely generalised, be it with more or with less conscious knowledge. Hence follows in surgery the recommendation of early operation or destruction of the focus of disease. But cells also, just as bacteria, exercise chemical influences. Apart from the destruction which they efl'ect by absorption, they secrete chemical substances. These appear flrst as tissue fluids, passing later into the circulation. Thus arises a change in the composition of the flowing juices, particularly of the blood, in fact a dyscrasia. This is, as I have always ex- plained, a secondary dyscrasia, quite distinct from the primary dyscrasias of the humoral pathologists, by localisa- tion of which topical diseases, and particularly tumours, were supposed to arise. According to my view, each dyscrasia is de- termined by the taking in of products of tissue secretion which may now be called metabolic products, or according to the old dictum, recrementitious substances. The tissue-juice, and the excreted material which is returned into the body have of late years gained much esteem. The semen, which I myself have always indicated as the classical example of such a tissue juice, and exhibited as the prototype of secretion by tumours and organ-cells, has provided materia medica with spermin, as has the thyroid juice with thyroidin and thyroiodin. New substances, some resembling alkaloids, others albuminates, are isolated from various organs, experimentally tested and technically worked up. So arose injection or serum-therapeutics, on the results of which we are not yet in a position to pass a final judgment, though everyone who is sufliciently unprejudiced must admit that they have in many cases been good. Ex- perience will determine the value of these methods; you must learn by the aid of practice to deduce the lasting theo- retical truths. But never forget that the source of all these