5 control object. Suffice it to say that in scientific biology the division between man and beast becomes less and less defined, but only let it be remarked the division between the abstract man and the abstract animal. It is the same relation as meets us in the differentiation between plants and animals. How many definitions of this have been put forth in the course of time, and how one after the other has been wrecked ? But if we place a given animal and a given plant side by side we overcome the difficulties which we had only raised by our own definition. The greatest difficulty in biology has arisen in this way— that mankind, following a natural tendency, has set the search after the unitary basis of life in the foreground of its consideration. As a matter of fact, what is more natural than the conclusion that life as a special phenomenon must also have a special basis, and that the material process of life must be derived from a common cause? During the last century an attempt was made to satisfy this claim by the assumption, with ever4ncreasing conviction, of a special force —vital force. Nowadays we can still perceive the logical errors which this assumption rendered possible. Time has, however, passed judgment upon it, and to-day no one con- tinues to speak of vital force. And yet the necessity for a single basis of all vital manifestations remains. How is this to be satisfied? This is a question which is not alone of great theoretical interest, but which has become an indis- pensable foundation for practical work, and particularly for medical practice. But in order to reach this foundation, it is first of all necessaiy to dispense with all the dogmas of the schools, and to seek to construct an objective picture of the nature of vital processes. As regards material construction, man, and the higher animals and plants, are no unitary, simple beings ; on the con- trary, they are put together from many units. They are hence called organisms. If they possessed but one single power which set all their parts in action, it would be impossible to understand how the special kind of activity which each one of these organisms exercises in its individual way comes about. This specific activity is present in the organism not alone in its perfect or fully-grown form, but also dui-ing its development and growth. How can a single power, whether we call it in the spiritualistic sense spirit, soul, spiritus rector, or, in the physical sense, vital force or electricity, build up such diverse organisms ? Or if this power resided in a single organ—were it in brain, or spinal cord, or heart—how could those brainless and heartless creatures be explained which present so abnormal a condition that at the begiruiing of this century they were the proper battle-ground of the mystics ? There is here, in my opinion, only one solution possible.