7 fact which first raised the famous theorem of Harvey to the high position whicli it merits. In a medical school, where the teaching is almost entirely concerned with human beings, we might put this sentence at the head of the lesson: "The organism is not an individual but a social mechanism." An exact anatomical analysis of this mechanism always brings us at last to cells ; they are the ultimate constituents of all tissues as they were their origins. Hence we call them the living elements, and hence we regard tliem as the anatomical basis of all biological analysis, whether it has a physiological or a pathological object in view. In relation to this two propositions must be stated: (i) That every organism, like every organ and tissue, provided it is alive, contains cells ; (2) that the cells are composed of organic chemical substances, which are not themselves alive, but the mechanical arrangement of which determines the direction and power of their activity. The first proposition has of late slowly come to be realised. Schwann, who recognised the origin of tissues from cells, still clung to the opinion that in the further develop- ment of many tissues the cells were used up. Among these he reckoned that important group which has sub- sequently become known as the supporting tissues, be- cause it ensures form and stability to single organs, and to the whole organism. First among these stand the osseous and connective tissues, which also foi'm so large a fraction in the quantitative constitution of higher organisms. The conception of the osseous and connective tissues as free from cells must now be given up. Where formerly only empty spaces or mere leaks (lacunae, holes) were seen in the tissue, we now can demonstrate actual cells. "We can even isolate them. Hence it is now desirable that the name " tissue," in the sense of living tissue, should be applied only to such parts as contain living cells. Outside the cells the tissue may contain a more or less rich share of organic (chemical) material, but this intercellular or extracellular substance must be regarded as an additional endowment, and not as a vital factor. Such parts as arose originally from liv- ing cells, but of which the cells have perished, must be ex- cluded from biological consideration. As examples may be adduced the epidermis and the hair belonging to it, together with the enamel of the teeth. These consist in reality of dead tissue. As regards the second proposition that no living organic chemical substance exists, the fact has been objected that all living matter is put together from organic chemical materials ; but whoever raises this point must have well-nigh overlooked the fact that these two kinds of substances, the living and the non-living, cannot be identified with one another.