25 who by devising this treatment has introduced the greatest and most beneficent reform that the practical branches of medical science have ever known, everyone is aware that Lord Lister, on the strength of his original reasoning, aiTived at practical results which the new theory of fermentative and septic processes fully confirmed. Before anyone had suc- ceeded in demonstrating by exact methods the microbes which are active in various diseases, or in establishing the special functions that they perform. Lister had learnt in a truly prophetic revelation the means by which protection against the action of putrefactive organisms can be attained. The opening up of further regions of clinical medicine to the knife of the surgeon, and a perfect revolution in the basis of therapeutics, have been the consequence. Lord Lister, whom I am proud to be able to greet as an old friend, is already and always will be reckoned amongst the greatest benefactors of the human race. May he be long spared to remain at the head of the movement which he called into existence. It remains for me to say a word concerning the other great problem, the solution of which the whole world is awaiting with anxious impatience. I refer to the pr-oblem of immunity and its practical corollary, artificial immunisation. It has already happened once that an Englishman has succeeded in applying this to the nearly complete destruction of at least one of the most deadly infectious diseases. Jenner's noble dis- covery has stood its trial as successfully, except in the popular fancy, as he hoped. Vaccine is in all hands, vaccination is, with the aid of Governments, spreading continually. In the same direction Pasteur worked resolutely, even with bold- ness ; he introduced into practice the vaccines of chicken cholera, anthrax, and rabies. Others have followed him, and the new doctrine of antitoxins is continually acquiring more adherents. But it has not yet emerged from the conflict of opinions. Still less is the secret of immunity itself revealed. Even if everything points to the view that immunity is based on the condition of the cells and the juices of their parenchyma, and not on the serum or the humours— these being probably only the means of transport for the immunising as for the infecting fluids—we must still become well accustomed to the thought that only the next century can bring perfect light and certainty on those points. The homo2opathic notion that toxin and antitoxin are one and the same, seems so foreign to our biological ideas that very many experimental and practical proofs will be required before it can be admitted into the creed of the future. Before then we must at least have succeeded in finding a way of strength- ening the cells in their fight with bacteria by means of im- munity. Let us,in conclusion, turn once more to the special cellswhich build up the body, and which arise from proliferation within