13 of innumerable independent parts wliich together constitute a single social body. If we take the ultimate elements of these parts we must call them all without exception cells, lor cells alone are truly alive and scientific judgment is m tne last instance concerned with them. So little is the whole organism a definite unit that the number of its living constituents is in the highest degree inconstant. • Looking at the gross structure of organs we are accustomed to regard a certain number of them as typical peculiarities of human beings or the various genera and species of animals. We expect to find two of each paired organ and one of each unpaired in a single individual. Man, like all other mammals, has a fixed number of bones and teeth, and these numbers are rightly used as diagnostic of man or of the particular val-iety or species of animal. But these numbers form no essential condition of existence; a man with six fingers or seven toes remains a man, just as a lung with supernumerary lobes or a kidney with an excess of coni medullares remains a lung or a kidney. A woman with three, four or even more mammary glands is thereby no more a lower animal than a man with a tail would be. These are theromorphs (" sports ") which can have no influence on our opinion as to the sex of the afiected individual or its position in the animal scale. ^ But it will be a long time before general opinion on the significance of "sports" will, even among experts, become unanimous. One sect will connect them with descent, and see in them a proof of atavism ; while the other will regard them only as a pathological formation, and will trace this back to an acquired lesion. During the last century we. have gone through violent disputes as to whether certain malformations were inherited or acquired. Those who pinned their faith to inheritance had very generally the arrih-e pem4e that the variation was atavistic, and the question soon pre- sented itself as to whether the atavism was derived only from human ancestors, or whether one would have to go back as far as the lower animals to account for it. A universally valid explanation of theromoi-phism has not yet been found. In my opinion it will never be found. Each single example must be separately studied and explained, and the general value of this explanation will be by no means increased if we find atavism in any single case. Doubtless an acquired variation can also be transmitted, and the circumstance that it is animal-like (theroid) does not go to prove a not acquired but atavistically transmitted condition. In connection with this I may refer to my paper on Eace-Formation and Inheritance." I can here discuss only the principal ground for the disputes regarding hereditary diseases which are special to pathology. Medical men are accustomed to describe as hereditary all diseases which reappear in difl'erent generations of the same