11 of these cells by division, and the consequent growth of the It was not difficult to follow out the direct transition of the epiphysial cartilage into the periosteum of the neighbouring bone, and thus into connective tissue. At this time the whole world was convinced of the correctness of the state- ment made by Duhamel that increase in thickness in the long bones was effected by the periosteal vessels exud- ing a nutritious juice out of which the new bone substance was formed. Pathologists had extended this formula to peri- ostitis and the formation of exostoses and hyperostoses; they assumed that between the periosteum and the bone a plastic exudation was excreted and stored up, in which the new osteophyte arose by secondary organisation. The consequence of my investigations was that in not one of these spots, neither in the cartilage nor in the periosteum, neither in normal growth nor in rickets or periostitis, was organisa- tion preceded by the presence of a recognisable amorphous exudation. On the contrary, it was indubitably shown that the first stage of the changes was an active productive process of cell multiplication ; that at the same time the intercellular substance altered in character and undei-went a series of suc- cessive changes till it assumed an osteoid appearance ; and that then, and not till then, followed calcification and true ossification. There was also no difficulty in adducing the proof that the separate stages of these processes in cartilage and in periosteum ran a perfectly parallel course, although the new tissue was in the one case at first true cartilage, in the other only cartilage-like. If one wishes to designate this process in general it must be called proliferation. Most of these pro- cesses are of the nature of proliferation. Whoever calls the proliferative layer an exudation will never obtain an objective view of the actual proceeding. There is thus not the slightest necessity for the genuine ob- server to hold to the arbitrary and totally erroneous formula of a plastic exudation. There is no such thing as a plastic exudation which is ever simply amorphous; the cells which may be found in it have not arisen there. With this proof, which can be obtained in numberless other places, the doc- trine of the discontinuous origin of pathological new forma- tions is set aside. Every such new formation presupposes a tissue from which its cells arise ; this is its matrix. There is no difi'erence in principle between the descent of men and animals from one mother and the descent of pathol ogical new formations from one matrix. Pathology has been somewhat late in arriving at the knowledge of this correspondence, but I thmk that it has acquired especial value for biology in general. In order to avoid misunderstanding, it may be noted that not every living cell is capable of becoming a matrix. All cells which are destined for the highest animal functions