15 versal was this conviction that the Government, with the consent of the clergy, wished to promulgate a marriage- forbidding decree; only a small majority in Parliament threw out the proposition. I was then requested by the Government to travel through the leprous districts and to make a report ; I succeeded in collecting a certain, though small, number of indubitable cases in which all suspicion of inheritance could be excluded. These were in particular persons who came as healthy adults from quite leprosy-free neighbourhoods into the infected districts, and after a long sojourn there developed leprosy. A few years later Armauer Hansen discovered the leprosy bacillus. Medical opinion changed in a moment. The vener- able idea of the contagiousness of the disease was revived. Inheritance was denied and predisposition vanished from the treasurehouse of dogmas. I will not assert that the grounds for embracing the present view are absolutely convincing, but I am positive that it is far to be preferred to the dogma of inheritance. And it is an experience instructive to all of us that one single fact, the discovery of a causa viva should have sufficed to dash down the apparently best grounded theory. The safely-established recognition of a known cause has at once converted leprosy from an inherited into an ac- quired disease, A similar thing happened a few decades earlier with two skin diseases which were, according to the views of humoral pathology, traceable to a change in the blood, a dyscrasia, namely tinea (favus, porrigo) and the itch. The first actually bore the name of tinea hereditaria, or in German Erbgrind. But the microscope revealed to Schonlein that favus arises from a mycelial fungus, and as regards scabies the popular Italian view was confirmed, namely that ^a mite (acarus sarcoptes) was its cause. So unstable are the most plausible theories in the light of an objective, practical knowledge. Exactly the same experience has been met with in relation to certain diseases of the hair. When fungi were found on the hairs, no one cared any more about predisposition, although this possibly does occur. It is certain that there are parasitic forms of alopecia. But fungi cannot be found in eveiy case of alopecia. Still less is this the case in anomalies of the hair associated with excessive growth. Here no other explanation is possible, except the assumption of a pre- disposition. This holds equally for hirsute races and for families of hairy men as well as for those single hairy cutaneous patches (nsevus pilosus) which are regarded as hereditary. The factors in the predisposition are the hair roots, and moreover those which, although arising during foetal life, belong also to the post-generative group, since they are called later into increased activity. The general cutaneous covering, in brief the "skin,"