22 IS useless if not dangerous. To have learnt this is a good omen for a mighty stride in biological methods. The other, much further elaborated, point in the study of infectious diseases is the question of the mode of action of infection. As long as infection by animal parasites was re- garded as the type of infection in general, the destructive action was described as the result of a mechanical action just comparable to a bite or devouring. But the exact study of the larger entozoa and organozoa soon brought about a com- plete conversion. Neither the taenia solium nor the ttenia echinococcus possesses an oral opening. They undoubtedly take in nourishment and draw it from their autosites, or, as they are poetically called, their hosts, but this applies only to the absorption of fluids. The feeding of bacteria and other vege- table and plant-like parasites has to be regarded in the same way. They certainly injure the tissues and organs in which they reside by the consumption of important materials, but their action is not limited to this. This much we haveah-eady learnt in the study of fermentation and putrefaction. It is admitted that organic matter is destroyed by them, but in addition they produce new substances, some of them emi- nently poisonous. Thus, it has been known for centuries that alcohol is produced by fermentation. The putrefaction poisons could for a long time not be isolated; first Selmi and then Brieger achieved this result. Gradually one ptomaine after the other was found ; for the whole group the new term of toxins has been introduced by Brieger instead of the name virus. They are in part crystallisable, invariably difl:usible, chemical substances which are bound up neither with cells nor other formed elements, though they are produced by the cell action of the parasites. They are nowadays described by preference as metabolic products, a perfectly platitudinous notion which has far more sound than sense. In former times people wei-e contented to call them secretory products, and I venture to believe that it is better to stand by this term in order not to lose the analogy with glandular secretion. There are thus two sides to infection ; on the one the actual living parasites, on the other their often poisonous secretions. In the individual diseases now one, now the other property comes to the front. In the case of the h£ematobiotic parasites poison formation may well as a rule count as more important; with those that live in the organs the deprivation of nutri- ment is much more immediately evident. The invention of artificial nutritive media for bacteria has now provided us with a convenient field for research and observation regard- ing all these questions. It would be called carrying coals to Newcastle were I to sketch in London the beneficial effects Avliich the application of methods of cleanliness has exercised upon surgical practice. In the city wherein the man still lives and works