8 In spite of chemical similarity or even con-espondence, they exhibit recognisable diflferences, not alone physio- logical, but also mechanical and physical. Thus since the application of dyes has secured us a glimpse of the variety of the finer mechanical, or if one may say it molecular, an-ange- ments of matter, it has become possible to differentiate living and non-living parts de vim. We are admittedly only on the threshold of these investigations, but the latest researches upon ganglion cells have shown that even beyond tlie effects of staining differences between living and no longer living parts may become optically recognisable. The enthusiasm with which for centuries the doctrine of formative principles and nutritive materials was built up has already become much abated, and has, in part, been entirely abandoned, through the knowledge that no single chemical substance, no kind of nutritive or formative material which can be employed as such, and without further change, for the origination or formation of cells, has ever been found outside the living organism. And yet a chemist of Liebig's import- ance actually believed that fibrin could be conveyed dii-ectly from the meat consumed into the juices of the body, and thence deposited in the tissues. This was a misconception—a relic from the time of the old humoral pathology—wh ich regarded the living body and its constituent parts as arising simply from the coming together of a few ground substances {humores cardinales). Hence arose the doctrine of plastic materials which were pre-existeyt in the food and blood. With an obstinacy which was only surpassed by their superficiality, these theorists remained convinced that the plastic materials as such effected the construction and maintenance of living matter. They failed to see that the nutriment taken in had first to be prepared by special juices secreted by the cells of the digestive organs, and that both the digestive material and the plastic substance of the blood were rendered as- similable only by means of a new change, which had to be effected by the agency of the tissue cells. The doctrine of plastic material appeared to have gained new strength through Schwann's cell theory. One must be careful not to misunderstand this designation. Since the cellular theory of animal and plant life has been established, many have maintained that Schwann's cell theory is identical with it. Not only is this not the case, but the two stand in exact opposition to one another. Schwann assumed, and believed himself to have directly observed the process, that cells arose in undifferentiated matter, in a fluid or a semi-solid mass, in the following way: First, small particles of a firmer kind were separated off, then these came togetlier into little heaps or clumps, by the internal transformation of which a cell nucleus gradually arose. Eound this a new precipitate of firmer substance now slowly accumulated, and from this arose