12 prove sterile, or at least very liypothetically capable of pro- liferation. Ganglion cells, primitive muscle bundles, red blood corpuscles do not come under consideration as regards the theory of pathological descent. The more indifferent cells, on the other hand, above all those of cartilage, connect- ive tissue, and epithelium, exhibit a marked proclivity to bring forth new cells. Many cells again, such as bone cor- puscles and fat cells, require a special preparatory meta- plastic stage before they can produce a new brood. Proliferation is an active property of special cells. That it cannot be performed by all cells alike in no way alters the fact that it can only be performed by cells. It is just as little a function of an entire organism, for this itself would then have to be unicellular. Ik this property lies the ex- planation of the origin of a whole organism from a single egg cell, that wonderful process which comes to pass but once in the life of an animal. Once tissues have arisen each cell of a matricial tissue may in respect of proliferation be compared to an ovum ; it brings forth a new progeny from which new tissue grows. This tissue bears, as a rule, the stamp of its matrix—it is built on the maternal type. This is the nature of descent, and herein lies the key to the knowledge of heredity, that puzzling appearance with which mankind has ever busied itself. According to the humoral theory heredity was derived from the body fluids and in particular from the blood. According to this idea the blood furnished the means of the continuance of the family and the race; blood relationship explained the simi- larity not only of the juices but also of the organs and the .whole body. The blood according to its nature determined the goodness or badness of the organisation ; noble blood generated noble men and healthy organs, bad blood a debased posterity and organs predisposed to disease. In scientific works naught remains of these fantastic sm-mises; they persist like a superstition in lay circles, but no one now maintains their coiTectness in serious debate. In their stead has arisen the recognition of the particular value of the mother tissue and its cells. These are the factors of inherited properties, the sources of the germs of new tissues and the motor power of vital activity. During the development of a higher organism the consti- tution of the individual tissues changes ; they become differen- tiated by means of metaplastic processes which are in then* turn connected with cells and cell-territories. Thus it comes about that people have for ages spoken of dissimilar parts. The complete full-grown organism is built up of similar and dissimilar tissues; their harmonious working gives the impres- sion of a unity of the whole organism which is as a matter of fact non-existent. For the further the organism develops the more its social constitution comes into evidence. It consists