20 must suffice to mention tlie two severest diseases, the dreadful effects of which are accounted for by the action of bacilli—tuberculosis and Asiatic cholera. In both cases it was Eobert Koch wlio was fortunate enough, by means of careful, and in part very delicate procedures, to demonstrate the constant presence of certain bacilli in the organs 'of patients. At the same time it became plain that in spite of the presence of bacilli in both diseases a totally different kind of infection could be recognised in the two ; thus, while tubercle bacilli invade the organs, and thereiai exhibit their deadly action, the cholera bacillus remains almost exclu- sively in the intestine, and develops more after the manner of an infusorial plant. For our discussion to-day it is inadvisable to go into minuter details. Only a few of the greater landmarks can be referred to. One of them I will mention but briefly, as I have written many long papers upon it: the necessity for distinguishing between the cause and the essential nature of infectious diseases. Parasibic beings, including, of course, bacteria, are never more than causes ; the nature of the disease depends upon the behaviour of the organs or tissues with which the bacteria or their metabolic products meet. From my point of view this distinction is of cardinal importance. Both my other landmarks require somewhat fuller state- ment. The first is the general relation of the smaller para- sites to the diseases determined by them. Under one name, which reaches back even into the old days of humoral pathology, and which I was the first to introduce into common parlance, are grouped all the processes which are produced by the invasion of morbid substances, under the general designation of infection. The Latin inficere means as one should say to " dirty." The polluting substance (?-es inficiens) has been called for ages dirt, impuritas. The products of putrefaction (materics putridce) served as its pro- totype. In Greek they were called miasms (from iiiaivai, inficere), so that these latter names were applied chiefly to such uncleanness as had been produced outside the body. That which had arisen inside the human or animal body was called contagium. Both miasmatic and contagious substances produced by their penetration into the body severe attacks recalling poisoning. To distinguish such a substance from a true poison (venenum) it was designated a virus. The rela- tionship between infection and intoxication was presumed, but it was not without good reason, considering the origin of the impurity, that the difference in designation was retained. Among the innumerable infectious diseases it was the con- tagions which owing to the associated danger to health and life not for individuals only, but for numbers of men and animals, came most prominently to the front. Thus the remarkable property was observed in contagia that they multiplied in the