17 broken-off nodules of the suprarenals; their wanderings lead them to neighbouring spots on the kidneys, or even into the interior of those organs, and in other cases over the kidneys into deeper parts of the peritoneum as far as the pelvis. And at all these places they may undergo further change, thus affording starting points for tumour formation. The same wandering has long been known in respect of teeth, and one knows that large tumours can arise from mis- placed tooth germs. The like holds with regard to cartilages, in which similar separations are noted in foetal life. The liistory of rickets has shown that islands of cartilage which were originally connected with the primary cartilages of the epiphyses or diaphyses come later in the course of bone growth to lie in the interior of the bones, completely separated from their matrix. From them may arise other new forma- tions such as enchondromata and osseous cysts. Extraordinaiy, even astonishing, as many of these cases are, they lose the character of perfect strangeness which they exhibit on superficial examination when we recall a frequent heterotopia which was produced at first rather by accident, then in surgical practice, and finally experimentally, and which is known by the name of transplantation. Since the grafting of pieces of the epidermis has come into use in rhino- plasty, and has been applied, often with great success, to the healing of I'efractory ulcers, it is no longer surprising to think that living pieces of tissue may continue to exist in unwonted situations, and oan there undergo further development. Ex- perimentally—and this has also become important in surgical practice—the first place under this head is taken by the transplantation of periosteum, which can be carried into every possible corner of the body, even through the circula- tion into.the lungs, and which in all these places conserves its vitality and also its power of serving as a matrix for osseous tissue. In my opinion, the bearing of these observations upon medical theory has been overrated, in that a property pos- sessed by the transplanted tissue, to wit, the property of forming a tumour by proliferation, has been applied to the explanation of tumour formation in general. This is a mis- take. Transplanted tissue has no fresh properties beyond those of the mother tissue from which it is separated. That a sarcoma can arise from a naevus is only possible because the latter is a part of the skin, and because the skin itself can also produce sarcomata. A cartilaginous tumour can arise from an aberrant piece of cartilage in the middle of a bone, and give rise to an enchondroma, but it may also grow out as a simple cartilaginous hypertrophy (ecchondrosis) from permanent cartilage. A dermoid cyst can serve as the basis for the outgrowth of a cutaneous horn, but cutaneous horns and spines can also grow out of ordinary skin. In each of