21 body and so besides infection as such produced an immeasur- able quantity of fresh virulent substance. In this respect they approached living beings and the thought arose that they themselves were alive {contagia viva). With the dis- covery of parasitic animals and plants this conjecture soon became a fact. Nothing was easier than to generalise this fact and to assume the presence of independent organisms in each contagious disease. The younger generation of doctors and students disregarded with fiery enthusiasm the necessity of a practical proof, and was' filled with the conviction that all infection depended on the invasion of parasitic organisms. And since it was just the severest infec- tions which were produced by the minutest plants and in which bacilli and cocci, or as they are called for short bacteria, were found in greatest abundance there was circulated for some time that beatific axiom, "Infection is pollution by bacteria." It was known however that parasitic animals and pro- tozoa can also give rise to infection, and that between bacteria and fungi there is more than a slight difference, but for convenience the name of bacteria is retained as a general designation. Further, a peculiar circumstance happened in that for most of the so-called bacteria there were no botanical names. Owing to the novelty of the circumstances in which they are placed, botanists have not even yet succeeded in their customary duty of giving every new plant its special name, of determining its genus and species, and of assigning it to its proper systematic situation. This can easily be under- stood and forgiven. But it does not in any way alter the erroneousness of a method which attributes every impurity to bacteria on the sole ground of its contagiousness. It may be said that a contagious disease affords suspicions of a bacterial origin, but it should not be called simply bacterial. To do so hinders further research and lulls the conscience to sleep. Some of the most important contagious diseases have suc- ceeded in resisting the struggle to find in them a parasitic con- tagium. For example, many have been the sanguine hopes of finding the parasite of venereal disease and as many have been the failures. The coccus of gonorrhoea alone has been discovered; the bacterium of syphilis itself remains a piwn desiderium. With certainty was it expected that a pathological para- site would be tracked in variola; more than one bacterium was actually found, but none pathogenic. In hydrophobia (lyssa, rabies) all appearances seemed to promise tliat it would prove to be a microparasitic disease ; its contagiousness is un- doubted; even a vaccine has, as with small-pox, been prepared and yet no one has been able to cultivate a specific bacillus. And the same is the case with some of the most dreaded contagious diseases. Painful as it may be one can do nothing but wait, observe and cKperimcnt. Perhaps pathogenic bacteria will be found, but as long as they are not discovered all assumption