10 cornea. We had severe cases of keratitis, but I saw in them no exudation; numerous cataract operations were performed and the wounds closed, but not by plastic exudation; this was absent from all corneal scars. Could this be explained by the circumstance that the cornea, apart from its circum- ference, is a non-vascular tissue ? My interest was at once focussed on the non-vascular tissues. I turned first to the articular cartilages, and behold, here also I found the greatest changes without the presence of exudation, or, at any rate, of plastic exudation. I need only recall the form of inflamma- tion which I named arthritis chronica deformans, and which is described by French physicians as arthrite shche. My experimental studies on the inflammation of the walls of blood vessels showed that the equally non-vascular intima of the larger arteries, and in part also that of the veins, can undergo great changes without even a trace of exudation being produced. Later on anatomical investigations on endo- carditis led to the same result, provided that parietal thrombi were not regarded as exudations. But in all these cases and in every place there were found changes in the tissue cells, active such as swelling, multiplication of nuclei, etc., or passive as fatty degeneration. I next turned my attention to vascular organs, and in par- ticular to those which were recognised by pathology as the common seats of exudation processes. I refer, flrst, to the medullary infiltration of the lymphatic (follicular) tissue of the intestine and mesenteric glands in typhoid fever so strikingly depicted by the Vienna school: instead of the amorphous albu- minous exudate which was described, I found only cells, and cells of the same kind as those which are normally present in these situations. The same was revealed in the so-called caseous exudates which were at one time ascribed to scrofula, at another to tuberculosis; the cheesy material was admittedly in the main amorphous, but it was in reality not an exudation at all, above all, not a primary product of disease, but rather the secondary product of degenerative necrobiotic changes in parts of the tissues which had formerly been organised, and not infrequently actually hj^pei-plastic. It is not necessary to go further into details in order to show how great is the realm of this pseudo-exuda- tive process. But I cannot help referring to another series of morbid processes afl'ecting the bones. It was whilst studying rickets that I first learnt the biological significance of the cartilage corpuscles, the nature of which had till then been interpreted in very die'erent ways. I believe that I was the first to distinguish in these corpuscles what must be actually recognised as cells from the merely capsular and extracellular coverings. The rachitic disturbance now brought into fullest evidence an appearance, which was repeatedly misunderstood even by later observers ; this was the increase