14 family. Thus one speaks of hereditary arthritis, hereditary tuberculosis, hereditary cancer. It is in fact not difficult to produce genealogical tables which demonstrate the reeun-ence of a paternal or maternal disease in children or grandchildren. Much trouble has been devoted, in my opinion without result, to seeking the germs of such diseases in the ovum or the semen. One is hence compelled to pass on to gene- rations of cells which took origin after conception. Here we reach what Eoux has designated the post-(/enerative formations. The further we pass away from the time of conception the more numerous examples do we find of altera- tions in the formation of cells and in the formation of embryonic tissues. But there is at the same time the greater possibility of the alteration having arisen after the formation of the first cells, and hence that the existing cause may have commenced to act at that time. If we set aside this possi- bility nothing else remains but to assume that from concep- tion, or even from the organs which produced the ovum or the spermatozoon, a predisposition is transmitted which is already present in the earliest cells, even if it cannot be recognised in them. Upon this theory are built up all interpretations of the inheritance of pathological and, we may add, physiological structures. There are, for example, many extraordinary anomalies in the disposition of hair, either through excess or through defect, and nothing is more common than to see the inherited transmission of such anomalies. But hairs are post- generative structures, and a disturbance in their development can make its first appearance only in a later period of foetal life ; not infrequently, indeed, it is' first seen after birth. If such a peculiarity recurs through many generations in the branches of a family or a race it is called hereditary, and referred to a hereditary predisposition. But as undoubtedly excesses as well as defects in hairiness are brought about by acquired disturbances, such as actual diseases, it becomes necessary to seek a recognisable cause for such great anomalies as well. If such an one is found, the aid of a pre- disposition need not, as a rule, be invoked ; one may be quite contented with the cause, which is then the causa efficiens. Veryrecent medical history afi"ords the most striking example of a rapid and comprehensive change in opinion regarding a disease formerly regarded as hereditary. Leprosy has for thousands of years passed as a contagious disease. But when about a generation ago the number of lepers in _ Norway increased to an astounding extent, and one family after another was seized with the malady, the question once more came up as to its hereditariness. Zealous in- vestigators ransacked genealogical tables and church registers, and families were discovered in which leprosy had persisted for decades, or even centuries. So uni-