6 The life possessed by the higher organisms is not a single one. Their life and all their activities only become intel- ligible when we go back to the exact representation, based upon a kind of instinctive observation, of the life of their parts. Each constituent part of a living organism has its special life, its vita propria. No one of the older authors pro- claimed this more distinctly than Paracelsus. But he at once undid this good idea again by attributing to each living part a particular spiritus, a special Archceus. The best of the succeeding biologists were also held by this notion as in a snare; instead of busying themselves in the observation of vita propria—that is, the action of the parts, they continued to devote themselves to research on the Archceus. The advances in general science based upon personal ob- servation, and particularly those in medicine, have com- pletely turned the attention of true observers to the study of individual parts. As I pointed out at the Medical Congress at Eome,^ it stands most clearly revealed in the history of pathology that the division of the body first into larger regions (head, breast, abdomen, etc.), then into organs, then into tissues, and finally into cells and cell territories, was the first step which opened up to us the comprehension of disease. The study of regions was followed by that of organs, and this again by that of the tissues, and finally by the cellular theoiy. But what is true of pathology must hold also for physiology, and as a matter of fact physiology has passed through the same developmental phases. One gradually comes to understand that the life of the individual parts is perfectly clear if one looks away from the Archesi of tlie organs or the tissues, and keeps in view only the life and activities of the single cells. For the life of an organ is naught else than the sum of the lives of the single cells which are gathered together into it and the life of the whole organism is not an individual but a collective function. If such a collective being is analysed, no matter whether it be the whole organism, or a single organ, or only one tissue which is presented in its vital activity, the first requisite for a correct interpretation is that one should dis- card the fabled unity, and should regard the single parts, the cells, as the factors of existence. Single cells can be separated out even in a complex organism, but we should with difficulty arrive at a satisfactory theory if we did not also meet with single free-living cells in Nature. These have provided the first basis for objective investigation. Uni- cellular plants and animals have during this century been continually more fully and better studied. Botanists and zoologists have become the teachers of physiologists and pathologists. The ova of animals and the corresponding germ cells of plants have bridged tlie gap between isolated living cells and higher organisms. It was the recognition of this