61 VITAL PHENOMENA OF PEOTOPLASM VITAL PHENOMENA OF PKOTOPLASM, CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL CHANGES. AMCEBOID MOVEMENTS. CILIARY MOVEMENT.’ During the life of a cell its protoplasm is constantly undergoing chemical and physical changes. The chemical changes are in some measure determinable by comparing the products which are given ofi by the cells of a tissue with the nutritive material which they absorb. In all the higher animals this nutritive material is the blood or lymph, but the products which are formed are not entirely the same for all cells, since they vary in some measure with the specific activity of the cell; thus the cells of the salivary glands yield the saliva, those of the mammary gland milk, and those of the liver form the constituents of the bile and glycogen. But all proto- plasm, whatever may be its specific function, has this in common—viz. that it absorbs and combines with oxygen, and yields carbon dioxide and other products of Fig. 99.—Successive changes exhibited by an amieba. (Verworu.) The protoplasm appears completely structureless, although containing granules near the nucleus and a contractile vacuole. oxidation, and as a result of these processes of oxidation heat and other forms of energy are produced.^ These chemical changes are always more marked as the functional activity of the cell becomes increased ; accordingly, any circumstances which tend to promote the activity of protoplasm, such as warmth, electrical or other stimulation, the action of certain reagents, tend proportionally to increase the activity of its chemical processes. One general chemical property of living protoplasm is that by virtue of which it is able to assimilate and eventually to convert into its own substance non-living material. In this manner the protoplasm of a cell may increase in amount, or, in other words, the living substance may grow ; but if the amount of protoplasm does not permanently increase, this is due to the 1 For the vital phenomena of protoplasm, see Verworn, Allgemeine Physiologie, 1908, and J. Loeb, Dynamics of Living Matter, 1906. The literature is given by P. Jensen, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1902, and W. Biedermann, ihicl. 1909. 2 According to Verworn, cell-respiration is associated rather with the protoplasm than with the nucleus (Localiz. d. Athmung in der Zelle, Haeckel Festschrift, 1907). Nevertheless, the observations of R. S. Lillie show that oxidation processes are centred round the nucleus (Amer. Journ. Physiol, vii. 1902). Cf. also footnote 1 on p. 39. The building up of oxygen into the cell and the production of carbon dioxide are probably the result of the action of different enzymes. For the literature of this question, see J. Loeb, Dynamics of Living Matter, pp. 13-23.