131 SPECIAL VARIETIES OE CONNECTIVE TISSUE the gland-like appearance above described, and when the fat is removed by inanition the tissue returns to the appearance of ordinary connective tissue. Under like circumstances the tissue of the so-called primitive fat-organs merely at first shows a loss of the fat within the cells, which become somewhat smaller and protoplasmic, but the glandular aspect of the mass of tissue is retained. This form of adipose tissue has been studied in its structure, development, and retrogression by Hammar m the white rat, in which animal it has a brownish-yellow colour, as compared with the white appearance of ordinary fat. Hammar comes to the conclusion that, although different in structure and to some extent in development and retrogression, it is nevertheless originally formed, like the white fat, from branched mesenchyme connective-tissue cells. * Borden - finds that the gland-like fat-bodies are the sole source of the fat of lower vertebrata, but that in mammals this source of formation is superseded in later embryonic life by the deposition of fat in ordinary connective-tissue cells. It is well known that fat may be deposited in many cells besides those of adipose tissue. Thus it is frequently seen in cartilage-cells—sometimes in considerable amount—in liver-cells, especially during fat-absorption from the intestine, in epithelium in many situations, and in muscle-fibres.-’ In epithelium, cartilage, and muscle, the fat-deposits appear to be independent of the condition of nutrition of the animal,^ whereas in adipose tissue, especially in the ordinary variety such as is met with most abundantly under the skin, the amount of the tissue fluctuates, as is well known, with the nutritional conditions of the body generally. Other special varieties of connective tissue.—Certain other kinds of connective tissue were formerly described under the heads of hasement-membranes and jelly-like connective tissue. The latter is, however, only represented in the adult by the vitreous humour of the eye, and it is by no means certain that this is a true connective tissue (see p. 121). The name has also been given to the embryonic tissue which is found in the umbilical cord, where it forms what is known as Wharton''s jelly. All forms of connective tissue, however, pass through this jelly-like stage, with their cells connected by branches and with the intercellular substance of a fluid or semi-fluid consistence, and containing relatively few fibres. If the vitreous humour is a connective tissue it is one which contains no fixed connective-tissue cells and few, if any, collagenous fibres. Basement-membranes, which are found at the surfaces of connective tissue and are often covered by epithelium, cannot be said to form a definite tissue. They are of different nature in different situations, being sometimes merely a layer of endothelial connective-tissue cells ; sometimes a stratum of ground-substance which is imperfectly fibrillated {e.g. the membrane of Bowman of the cornea), sometimes of the nature of modified elastic substance {e.g. the membrane of Descemet of the cornea ^), and sometimes a condensation of the reticular tissue of a mucous membrane or glandular organ. 1 Hammar, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlv. 1895. See also on this subject, H. Batty Shaw, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxvi. 1901. In both these papers an account of the literature will be found. - New York Med. Journ. 1894. 5 Sometimes the fat-like drops which occur in these situations are of lipoid character and not true fats. ^ E. T. Bell, op. cit. 5 It is possible, however, that this is a cuticular formation produced by the adjacent cells (W. Fritz, Wien. Akad. Anz. 1906).