BLOOD-VESSELS 330 Arteries possess considerable strength and a very high degree of elasticity, being extensible and retractile both in their length and their width. When cut across they present, although empty, an open orifice ; the veins, on the other hand, if empty, collapse, unless when prevented by adhesions to surrounding rigid parts. Structure.—In most parts of the body the arteries are inclosed in a sheath formed of connective tissue, which in its turn is continuous with the connective tissue of the neighbouring structures. The outer coat of arteries is connected to the sheath by filaments of the same tissue, but so loosely that, when the ^vessel is cut across, its ends readily shrink some way within the sheath. Some arteries lack sheaths, those for example which are situated within the cavity of the cranium. Independently of this sheath, arteries (except those of minute size whose structure will be noticed afterwards) have been usually described as formed of three coats, named, from their relative position, internal, middle, and external (fig. 511, in section) ; and as this nomenclature is generally followed in medical and surgical works, and also correctly applies to the structure of arteries so far as it is discernible by the naked eye, it seems best to adhere to it as the basis of our description ; although it will be seen, as we proceed, that some of these coats are found on microscopic examination to consist of two or more strata differing from each other in texture, and therefore reckoned as so many distinct coats by some authorities. The structure of arteries of the same size varies very considerably according to the situation they are taken from, and this holds good especi- ally for the smaller branches, and particularly as to the condition of the elastic tunics. On this account, after a general description of large and medium-sized arteries and veins, the special features of particular blood-vessels will be dealt with. In comparing vessels of different individuals due regard must be paid to sex, for in females the vessels are always smaller ; and also to age, for with advancing years the vessels undergo definite changes. The last point to be kept in mind is the development of the vessels up to the time of maturity, for during this period what are ultimately large arteries pass through all the stages which subsequently, in the adult animal, are characteristic of the medium-sized and the small arteries. For descriptive purposes it is best to commence with the medium-sized arteries. medium-sized arteries.—Typical examples of these are the lingual, the tibial, and the renal arteries. If arteries be fixed by injecting the fixing fluid under normal pressure through the aorta, transverse sections of the vessels will show a smooth inner surface; with the exception of the renal vessels, in which the elastic coat is especially developed. In fig. 512 is represented a transverse section of the renal artery of a dog. In this from within outwards will be seen firstly a dark sinuous line, which represents the elastic coat of the innermost membrane or tunica intinia ; then a broad pale band, representing the middle coat or tunica media, composed essentially of Fig, 511.—Tbansvebse section of pabt of the wall of THE POSTEBIOB TIBIAL ABTEBY, MAN. (Schafer.) Magnified 75 diameters. a, endothelial and subendothelial layers of inner coat; &, elastic layer (fenestrated membrane) of inner coat, appear- ing as a bright line in section ; c, muscular layer fmiddle coat) ; d, outer coat, consisting of connective-tissue bundles. In the interstices of the bundles are some connective-tissue nuclei, and, especially near the muscular coat, a number of elastic fibres cut across.