205 NEUROGLIA the neural canal. As it thus closes up, a part of the neural ectoderm near the dorsal surface of the groove remains unenclosed, and buds out at regular intervals along each side ; these buds form the germ or blastema for the root-ganglia of the nerves (fig. 309). Up to the present the neural epithelium is composed of columnar cells which extend from the internal surface of the groove or canal to its external surface (fig. 310); later some of the cells acquire cilia on the surface which is turned towards the interior of the canal, to which they continue to furnish a lining. Amongst these columnar cells—and formed as the result of the division and transformation of some of them—the proper nervous elements begin to appear in the form of scattered neurohlasts which become modified to form nerve-cells; nerve-fibres eventually growing out from them. Other cells of the epithelium Fig. 312.—Section of spinal coed of embryo, SHOWING THE FORMATION OF NEUROGLIA-CELLS FROM DETACHED EPENDYMA-CELLS. (V. LenllOSSek.) which forms the wall of the neural canal (spongioblasts) are transformed into neuroglia-cells, and ultimately the nerve-cells and -fibres and neuroglia- cells and -fibres form the great bulk of the substance of the brain and spinal cord, while the fixed ends of the ciliated epithelium-cells of the neural canal become reduced to attenu- ated threads which extend to the peri- pheral part of the canal between the other elements (figs. 311, 312). This elongated condition of the ependyma- cells remains in lower vertebrates (am- phibia and fishes) throughout life, but Fig. 313.—Central canal of spinal cord OF A CHILD SIX YEARS OLD, SHOWING ITS CILIATED EPENDYMA - CELLS. (Schafer.) Magnified 150 diameters. in higher vertebrates, especially in mammals, it becomes impossible to detect in post- embryonic life, and is greatly obscured or is no longer seen even in the later stages of embryonic development, many of the cells becoming detached and con- verted into neuroglia-cells. Some of the cell-bodies remain, however, distinct throughout life as the epithelium-cells of the central canal of the cord (fig. 313) and of the ventricles of the brain; these cells are provided with cilia on their free border, while their fixed ends, which appear to branch, are gradually lost as they are traced into the grey matter surrounding the canal. Neurog*lia.—This is the tissue which in the central nervous system occupies the interstices between the proper nervous elements (fig. 314), and serves to separate and support them.^ ^ The neuroglia-cells have been supposed to play a part in connexion with the nutrition of the nerve-cells, by acting as intermediaries between them and the blood-vessels. This is suggested by the observations of Andriezen (Brit. Med. Journ. 1893), and of Ford Robertson (Rev. of Neurol. 1905), who