COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM 87 is in some cells covered with fine longitudinal fibrils, but whether these belong to the cell itself or to membranous septa in the intercellular substance is uncertain. Fig. 139.—a columnar epithe- lium-cell, SHOWING MASS OP FIBRILS (cYTOMITOME) WITHIN THE CYTOPLASM. (M. Heiclen- hain.) cp/i rsi * - -Jf'- fi'- \t'*' "t A. !2a£. ?t\:f / JJs *) ^ ''"4 'T ■ Sa--5' <••7# 'y % V, .'a. _ if s bid t^. .v^s. u :f Fig 140.—Section op thyroid of cat, showing GLAND-VESICLES LINED WITH CUBICAL EPITHELIUM (Vincent and Jolly.) The interior of the cytoplasm may also, like that of the ciliated cell, be traversed by a bundle of fine fibrils (cytomitome) (fig. 139). There is also present in these cells a reticulum lying peripheral to the nucleus, and continuous, according to Holmgren, with processes of membranous con- nective tissue which extends between the epithelium - cells (trophospongium, see pp. 25, 26). Columnar epithelium - cells are met with in their most characteristic form lining the mucous membrane of the intes- tine, covering the villi, and extending into the ducts of all the glands which open into this part of the alimentary tract. Columnar epithelium - cells parts long, in so as to look seen in profile. A typical instance of such cubical epithelium-cells is seen in the cells which line the vesicles of the thyroid (fig. 140). They vary in form, according to the shape of the surface which they cover; thus they may be larger at the fixed than at the free end, as when they line a tube or duct, and in a section of this they then appear wedge-shaped, or they may be larger at the free end than at the fixed extremity, as in many of those covering the villi. Some epithelium-cells, which are usually reckoned in with this variety, have a peculiar striated aspect in the basal or fixed half of the cytoplasm, as if the are m some others short, cubical when Fig. 141.—Section of a racemose gland, showing the COMMENCEMENT OF A DUCT IN THE ALVEOLI. (Schiifer.) Magnified 425 diameters. a, one of the alveoli, several of which are in the section shown grouped around the commencement of the duct, cV; a', an alveolus, not opened by the section; &, basement- membrane in section; c, interstitial connective tissue of the gland ; cl, section of a duct which has passed away from its alveoli, and is now lined with characteristically striated columnar cells; s, semilunar group of darkly stained cells at the periphery of an alveolus.