601 LYMPHATICS AND NEEVES a cilium-like filament may extend in some animals (see fig. 59, p. 32 ; from the salamander larva). In the lower vertebrates, such as the frog, the epithelium-cells at the commencement of the convoluted tubule bear true cilia. In the ascending parts of the looped tubules the cells sometimes show an arrangement of imbrication from below upwards ; in man they have been found to contain brown pigment- granules. The rodded character of the epithelium is very distinct in the zigzag tubules. The intertuhular tissue oi the kidney (fig. 875) is a form of reticular tissue, which occupies the intervals between the tubules and conveys the blood-vessels, lym- phatics, and nerves. Both this tissue and the connective-tissue capsule of the organ receive small branches of the renal arteries ; in the capsule these anastomose with branches of the lumbar arteries. Xiymphatics and nerves.—The lymphatics of the interior of the organ pass to the hilum, and also communicate with a set of plexiform lymph-vessels in the capsule. The lymphatics of the cortex form a network of sinuses which partially enclose the tubules and Malpighian corpuscles ; those of the medulla form a long-meshed plexus accompanying the straight and looped tubules. The efferent lymph-vessels follow the course of the arteries. According to Kumita, lymph-vessels issue from the glomeruli along with the blood-vessels. The nerves are chiefly distributed to the blood- vessels (G. Retzsius), but some have been traced to the a 3> Fig. 877.—Urate deposits within THE KIDNEY-CELLS OF A MOLLUSC (Schoppe.) Fig. 876.—Nerve-fibrils ending over capillary blood- vessels AND AMONGST THE EPITHELIUM-CELLS OF A CON- VOLUTED TUBE OF THE FROG’S KIDNEY. (SmimOW.) Malpighian corpuscles and others to the cells of the convoluted tubules (fig. 876) (Berkley, Smirnow). Urinary concretions (probably uric acid or urates) can be seen in the cells of the convoluted tubules of birds and reptiles (v. Wittich); they have also been described in the rabbit. In the urinaryorganof some molluscs they take the form of conspicuous masses (fig. 877, a, h) (Schoppe). The granules in the cells of the convoluted tubules are said to show changes under the influence of diuretics, becoming fewer, larger, and more irregularly distributed. They are also affected by diet, being more conspicuous and abundant as the result of a purely meat diet (Chalmers Watson). They appear to be formed by breaking up of the rod-like fibres, which are themselves composed of rows of granules (Takaki) ; probably these granules originate from mitochondria. The following papers on the structure of the kidney may be referred to: Altmann, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. xvi. 1879 (blood-vessels) ; Cesar-Bianchi, Intern. Monatschr. Anat. u. Physiol, xxvii. 1910 (cells of tubules) ; Cresci, Arch. f. Anat. 1909 (vessels of glomerulus); M. Gerard, Joum. de I’anat. 1911 (blood-vessels); C. Hirsch, Anat. Hefte, xli. 1910 (granules in cells). C. Huber, Amer. Journ. Anat. iv. 1905 (Suppl.) (course of tubules); ibid. vi. 1907 (efferent vessels of glomeruli and blood-supply of medulla) (see also Brit. Med. Journ. Dec. 15, 1906); Johnston, Anat. Anz. xvi. 1899 (reconstruction of glomeruli) ; Kumita, Arch. f. Anat. 1909 (lymphatics); F. P. Mall, Abhandl. d. k. Sachs. Akad. d. Wiss. 1891; Johns Hopkins Hosp. Reports, i. 1891; Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. xx. 1901 (basement-membranes, fibrillar structure); Maresch, Anat. Anz, xii. 1896 (constitution of pyramids); Meves, Kupffer Festschr. (secretion-changes in cells); Meyer and Eathery, Arch, d’anat. micr. xi. 1909 (granules in cells); W. S. Miller and E. P. Carlton, Trans. Wisconsin Acad. Sci. 1895 (relation of cortex to medulla and number of glomeruli in cat); Peter, Anat. Anz. xxx. Erganzungsheft, 1907 (course and structure of tubules); Pizzini, Intern. Monthly Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxv. 1908 (granules of convoluted tubules);