ARTERIES 333 By means of the oblique fibres the bundles of muscle-cells are firmly held together, and the whole system is rendered thereby more homogeneous. Outer coat.—The tunica externa or adventitia (fig. 511, d, and fig. 515, c) is in middle-sized arteries largely formed of elastic tissue. Its thickness varies; in most, it measures from one-half to two-thirds that of the middle coat. In small arteries and arterioles the first indication of the presence of elas- tic tissue manifests itself in the deposit of elastic material in longitudinal strands immediately outside the mus- cular coat, between the latter and the white fibrous tunica adventitia. As in the case of the internal elastic lamina, so here the longitudinal elastic fibres may become converted into a dis- tinct membrane, to form an ‘ external elastic lamina," showing a number of apertures (fig. 515). The larger the vessel, excluding the very large ones, the greater is the number of elastic fibres developed on the external surface of the external elastic lamina. This arrangement serves to allow of a con- siderable enlargement of the vessel during systole. Ziarg-er arteries.—These are re- presented by the aorta throughout its whole length: the innominate, the subclavian, the common carotid, and the common iliac arteries. Again three distinct coats may be seen. Internal coat (fig. 516, a, h, c).— Innermost of all lies the endothelial covering which is characteristic of all vessels, but in the large vessels the endothelial cells are both relatively and absolutely shorter than in the medium- sized arteries. External to the endo- thelium is a well-developed subendo- thelial layer consisting for the greater part of white fibrous tissue and its cells. The elastic tissue of the inner coat varies very considerably according to the vessel examined. If the common iliac artery be examined in its lower regions the vessel shows two distinct elastic laminae — namely, an internal elastic lamina like that of the smaller arteries, and a little external to this a second elastic lamina, which may be regarded as forming the inner boundary of the muscular coat. Between the two elastic laminae just referred to is a quantity of connective tissue, containing numerous very delicate elastic fibrils running longitudinally, and also a few, equally fine, circular fibrils. The changes Fig. 516.—Section of aobta. (Griinatein.) a, endothelium and subendothelial layers of intima ; b, c, outer layers of intima, containing many fine elastic fibres ; d, e, parts of adventitia.