VEINS 337 blood-stream through the aorta would be modified, were the diameter of the vessel not diminished by a special thickening which occurs in the intima (Tlioma). In the common iliac artery both the intima and the media increase in thickness, but the media increases faster than the intima at all ages. VEINS. BXode of distribution.—The veins are ramified throughout the body like the arteries, but in most regions and organs of the body they are more numerous and larger, so that the venous system is altogether more capacious than the arterial. The pulmonary veins form an exception to this rule, for they do not exceed in capacity the pulmonary arteries. The veins are arranged in a superficial and a deep set, the former running immediately beneath the skin, and thence named subcutaneous, the latter usually accompanying the arteries, and named vence comites vel satellites arteriarum. The large arteries have as a rule one accompanying vein, and the medium-sized and smaller arteries have two, but there are exceptions to this rule. The veins within the skull and spinal canal, and most of those belonging to the bones, as well as the pulmonary veins, run apart from the corresponding arteries. The- communications or anastomoses between veins of considerable size are more frequent than are those of arteries of similar calibre. Structure.—The veins have relatively much thinner coats than the arteries, and hence collapse when cut across in the empty condition; whereas a cut artery presents a patent orifice. But, notwithstanding their comparative thinness, the veins possess considerable strength, more even, according to some authorities, than Fig. 521.—Section of a small .\rtery and vein. (Schafer.j arteries of the same calibre. The number of their coats has been differently reckoned, and the tissues composing them differently described by different writers; this discrepancy of statement is perhaps partly due to the circumstance that all veins are not alike in structure. In most veins of moderate size, three coats may be distinguished, which, as in the arteries, have been named external, middle, and internal. Internal coat.—This is more cohesive than that of the arteries, and therefore admits of being more readily peeled off without tearing ; but in other respects the two are much alike. It consists in medium-sized and larger vessels of an VOL. II. PART I. z