G43 OVARY undergo atrophy, and each is replaced by a shrunken whitish body to which the name corpus albicans has been applied (fig. 933, S). In the unimpregnated female the corpus luteum begins to retrograde within ten or twelve days after rupture of the follicle, and, becoming shrunken to form a corpus albicans, ultimately disappears. Whilst the testicles resemble secreting glands in general structure, although Fig. 931.—Diagbam of the ovaby and utebus and theib appendages, as seen pbom BEHIND. (Allen Thomson.) Two-thirds natural size. The uterus and upper part of the vagina have been laid open by removing the posterior wall; on the left side the Fallopian tube, round ligament, and ovarian ligament have been cut short, and the broad ligament removed; u, the fundus of the uterus; c, the cervix opposite the os internum; the triangular shape of the uterine cavity is shown, and the dilatation of the cervical cavity with the rugae termed arbor vitae: v, upper part of the vagina ; od, Fallopian tube or oviduct; I, round ligament; lo, ligament of the ovary ; o, ovary (here represented with its long axis horizontal, although in the natural position within the body it is oblique or nearly vertical); i, wide outer part of the right Fallopian tube; / i, its fimbriated extremity ; po, parovarium ; h, one of the hydatids frequently found connected with the broad ligament. not in the character of their products, the ovaries bear little or no resemblance to those organs. Each ovary is formed of a solid mass of fibrous-looking tissue {stroma), which contains between its fibres very many elongated cells, like those of embryonic fibrous tissue. The stroma is rather more condensed near the surface {tunica Fig. 932.—Human ovaby. (W. Nagel.) 1, Line of separation between peritoneum and tunica albuginea of ovary; 2, mesovarium; 3, Fallopian tube with ovarian fimbria. Fig. 933.—Section of a human ovaby. (W. Nagel.) 1,1, Graafian follicles ; 2, corpus luteum ; 3, corpus albicans. albuginea). The ovary projects into the peritoneal cavity but is not actually covered by serous membrane ; the peritoneum ceasing abruptly at the attachment of the ovary to the broad ligament (fig. 932,1, and fig. 938, z). Along the line of attach- ment {hilum) blood-vessels and nerves enter and leave the ovary, and accompanying these is a strand of fibrous tissue which contains plain muscle amongst its fibres. There are also sometimes to be seen in this situation a number of interstitial cells T T 2