RETICULAR TISSUE 123 the epithelial elements, for which it often forms a basement-membrane, and to conduct the capillary blood- and lymph-vessels to all parts. It is composed of a very fine reticulum of connective-tissue fibrils, which in their behaviour to staining reagents and in their general micro- scopic appearance closely resemble the white fibres of areolar tissue, with which, in the lymph-glands, they are undoubtedly continuous. According to F. Mall, * they do not yield gelatin on boiling, but this is denied by Young.- However this may be, their anatomical continuity with the white fibrils of connective tissue is unquestionable. The tissue is formed of very fine anasto- mosing bundles of these fibrils, with the meshes of the network occupied by fluid ; the ground-substance has almost entirely disappeared. In some situa- tions, such as parts of the lymph-glands, fixed cells of the tissue are applied to and are wrapped round the strands of the network, which may thus be in great measure concealed by the cells. The tissue then appears to be formed mosing cells, and was for a long time so Fig. 201.—Reticul.vr tissue of marrow. (Enderlen.) of a network of branching and anasto- described; but if the cells are brushed Fig. 202.—Reticulum from the medullary part of a lymph-gland. (Schafer.) tr, end of a trabecula of fibrous tissue ; r, r, open reticulum of the lymph-path, continuous with the fibrils of the trabecula; r', r\ denser reticulum of the medullary lymphoid cords. The cells of the tissue are not represented, the figure being taken from a preparation in which only the connective-tissue fibrils and the reticulum were shown. away or otherwise removed, as by a short treatment with dilute alkali, the fibres of the reticulum come clearly into view (figs. 202, 203). The true structure of this tissue was first pointed out by Bizzozero. In the thymus the reticulum is of epithelial origin (entoderm of visceral pouch), and is wholly formed of anastomosing cells. It cannot therefore rightly be classed amongst the connective ^ Anat. Anz. iii. 1888. ^ R. A. Young, Proc. Physiol. Soc. 1892 (Journ. Physiol, xiii.). Siegfried (Habilitationschrift, Leipzig, 1892) found gelatin in reticular tissue, but states that it also contains a special chemical substance, which he terms reticulin. Siegfried’s conclusions have, however, been traversed by M. Christine Tebb (Journ. Physiol, xxvii. 1902), and the identity of the fibrils of reticular with those of areolar tissue must be regarded as established.