STRUCTUKE OF NERVE-CENTRES 300 The apex of the dorsal horn also is cut off from the central grey matter in the medulla oblongata. It becomes enlarged and approaches the surface, where it forms a mass of gelatinous-looking substance known as the tubercle of Rolando. This receives the central arborescent terminations of the sensory root of the fifth or trigeminal nerve and forms its ‘ nucleus.’ A considerable bundle of fibres of this root runs down the medulla oblongata alongside of the tubercle of Rolando, into which the fibres send collaterals. Some of the fibres of this descending root of the fifth pass into the cervical part of the spinal cord, ending in the gelatinous substance of the apex of the dorsal horn. The white matter of the medulla oblongata is characterised by the presence on each side of its ventral fissure of a prominent mass of longitudinal fibres termed the pyramid. Its fibres form the pyramid tract already noticed in the cord ; at the lower part of the medulla oblongata they cross the middle line obliquely in bundles which decussate with bundles from the opposite pyramid to pass to the lateral column of the cord as the crossed pyramid tract. The fibres of the pyramid which remain uncrossed form the direct pyramid tract of the cord. The spino- cerebellar tracts are continued up from the spinal cord in the lateral column of the bulb : they separate at its upper end, one portion, the dorsal, passing to the cere- bellum by its inferior peduncle ; the other, the ventral, running farther up to reach the upper end of the pons and then turning back into the cerebellum along its superior peduncle. These are said by most authors to be distributed to the whole of the vermis of the cerebellum of the same side, a few fibres crossing the middle line ; but Mott,^ who is corroborated by Mackalty and Horsley,^ could trace them only to the cephalic part of the vermis. The descending fibres of the antero-lateral column of the cord, which there forms two tracts, are resolved in the medulla oblongata into three, all of which have a deeper position here than in the cord. They are known respectively as the dorsal and ventral longitudinal bundles and the bundle of Monakow or rubrospinal tract. They will be noticed again in the mid-brain and pons. The central canal in the medulla oblongata gradually approaches its dorsal surface, and about the middle of its length opens into the lozenge-shaped fourth ventricle of the brain (fig. 471). The lower part of the lozenge lies dorsally to the medulla oblongata, the upper part dorsally to the pons. The cavity is roofed in by a thin layer of ependymal epithelium covered by pia mater; this membrane invaginates the roof on either side with a vascular thickening which forms the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The opening out of the central canal throws the grey matter which surrounded it to the side of the middle line : it here forms the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle and contains a continuation of the nuclei which gave origin below to fibres of the twelfth and eleventh nerves. In this part they still give origin to fibres of the twelfth nerve, but the eleventh is replaced by the tenth, or vagus, and higher up by the ninth, or glossopharyngeal. Other fibres of these nerves take origin from a small motor nucleus which lies in the reticular formation and is known as the nucleus ambiguus. Still more laterally in the central grey matter than the motor nucleus of the ninth nerve there is seen in the uppermost part of the medulla oblongata—extending up into the pons—another nucleus which receives part of the eighth or acoustic nerve (see p. 303). The reticular formation lies in this upper part of the medulla oblongata ventral to the grey matter of the floor of the ventricle. In the lateral part of the reticular formation the descending root of the fifth nerve and its gelatinous ‘ nucleus ’ is still seen, and near it another smaller circular white bundle, also in contact with ^ Brain, xv. 1892. - Ibid, xxxii. 1909.