155 FORMATION AND GROWTH OI-' J]ONE FORMATION AND GROWTH OF BONE. The foundation of the skeleton is laid at a very early period. But it is by their outward form and situation only that the parts representing the future bones are then to be recognised. At first they do not differ materially in substance from the other structures of the embryo, being composed of undifferentiated mesoderm-cells. Very soon, however, they become cartilaginous, and ossification in due time beginning in the cartilage and continuing to spread from one or from several points, the bony tissue becomes gradually formed. But, while it is true with respect to the bones generally that their ossification commences in cartilage, it is not so in every instance. The tabular bones forming the roof of the skull may be adduced as a decided example to the contrary; in these the ossification goes on in embryonic connective tissue altogether unconnected with any cartilage ; and even in the long bones, in which ossification undoubtedly com- mences and to a certain extent proceeds in cartilage, it will be afterwards shown that there is much less of the increment of the bone really owing to that mode of ossification than was at one time generally believed. Two species or modes of ossification are thus distinguished, which for the sake of brevity may be called the intramembranous and the intmcartilaginous, the resulting bones being termed membrane bones and cartilage bones respectively. INTKAMEMBRANOUS OSSIFICATION: OSSIFICATION IN CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The tabular bones of the cranium of ossification. The base of the skull in the embryo is cartilaginous; but in the roof, that is to say, the part com- prehending the parietal and frontal bones, and a certain portion of the occipital bone, we find (except where there happen to be commencing muscular fibres) only the in- teguments, the developing dura mater, and an inter- mediate connective - tissue layer, in which the ossifica- tion proceeds. The commencing ossifica- tion of the parietal bone, which may be selected as an example, appears to the naked eye in the form of a network in which little bars or spicules of bone run in various direc- tions, and meet each other at short distances. By-and-by the ossified part becomes ex- tended, also gets thicker and closer in texture towards the centre, and the larger bony spicules which now appear, run Fig. 241.—-Parietal bone of an embryo sheep. -Size of THE EMBRYO 2h INCHES. (Shai’pey.) The small upper figure represents the bone of the natural size, the larger figure is magnified about 12 diameters. The curved line a, b, marks the height to which the subjacent cartilaginous lamella extended. A few isolated particles of bone are seen near the circumference, an ai)pearance which is quite common at this stage. out in radiating but interconnected lines to the