KIDNEY ()02 G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. iii. 1892 (nerves); G. Riihle, Arch, f. Anat. 1897 (structure of basement- membranes, effects of diet on granules in cells); H. Sauer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lui. 1899 (uric acid in cells of convoluted tubules); Scboppe, Anat. Hefte, vii. 1897 (urinary concretions in cells); R. Standfuss, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxi. 1907 (Malpighian corpuscles); 0. Stoerck, Anat, Hefte, xxiii. 1904 (course and structure of tubules) ; Takaki, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixx. 1907 (rodded structure and granules of cells); Van der Stricht, Comptes Rendus, 1891 (secretion changes in cells); Chalmers Watson, Intern. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxiv. 1907 (granules in cells); Disse, Anat. Hefte, v. 1893 (secretory changes in cells), also in v. Barde- leben’s Handbuch der Anatomie (article ‘ Niere ’), vol. vii. 1902 ; K. M. Zimmermann, Arch, f, mikr. Anat. Ixxviii. 1911 (form of epithelium-cells); Zondek, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1900 (origin of arterije rectae). The development of the tubules is dealt with in vol, i, of this work. The following papers on this subject may be mentioned : J. B. Haycraft, Intern. Monatschr, f. Anat. u. Physiol, xii. 1895 ; P. T. Herring, Journ, Path, and Bact. vi. 1900 ; C. Huber, Amer. Joum. Anat. iv. 1905 (Suppl.); Janosik, Arch. f. Anat. 1907 ; 0. Stoerck, op. cit. PELVIS OF KIDNEY AND URETERS. Pelvis.—On squeezing a fresh kidney which has been split open, a little urine will be seen to drain from the papillae by fine orifices on their surface. The secretion is carried away and conveyed into the bladder by the ureter. This long tube on being traced up to the kidney is seen to be somewhat enlarged, expanding as it enters the hilum into a dilatation named the pelvis (figs. 857, 878). This, within the sinus, divides usually into three, but sometimes only two primary tubular divisions, and these finally end in a larger number of short, truncated, but comparatively wide branches named calices or infundibula, which receive the papillae into their wide mouths (fig. 857) and are attached around the bases of those prominences, from which, of course, they catch the issuing urine. A single calix often surrounds two, sometimes even three papillae, which are in that case united together ; hence, the calices are in general not so numerous as the papillae. The spaces between the calices are occupied by a considerable amount of fat, imbedded in which are seen the main branches of the renal vessels. Like the rest of the ureter, the pelvis and calices consist of three coats, viz. a strong external fibrous and elastic tunic, which becomes continuous around the bases of the renal papillae with that part of the external capsule of the kidney which is continued into the sinus ; a thin internal or mucous coat, which, at least its epithelium, is reflected over the summits of the papillae ; and between these two a muscular coat, with fibres running both longitudinally and circularly. The longitudinal fibres lie innermost and, according to Henle, are lost near the ex- tremity of the calix, but the circular fibres form a continuous circular muscle round the papilla where the wall of the calix is attached to it. According to Disse there are longitudinal fibres outside the circular, extending over the calices as far as the circular. The muscular coat cannot in man be separated as a distinct stratum from the fibrous coat, for the muscular bundles run to a certain extent in the fibrous tissue of the outer coat. Between the muscular bundles the fibrous coat is continuous with the connective tissue of the mucous membrane. The pelvis is lined by an epithelium like that of the ureter, but in the calices its layers become reduced in number, and near and over the papillae it is represented by a single layer Fig. 878.—Cast of the intebior of the UPPER END OF THE URETER. (Henle.) P, pelvis; U, ureter.