CARDIAC MUSCLE 197 between and in contact with the muscular fibres. There is another rather finer gangliated plexus in the submucous coat from which nerve-fibres proceed to the muscidar tissue of the mucous membrane. The tissue receives blood-vessels, but these are far fewer in proportion than those of voluntary muscle. In some situations, as in the wall of the stomach and intestine, abundant lymphatic plexuses are found between tlie layers of the muscular coat. Histog-enesls.—The elements of the plain or unstriped muscular tissue are derived from embryonic nucleated cells, the origin of which has been traced in many cases to the myoblasts of the muscle-plates. But in other situations plain muscular fibres may take origin from other sources. Thus the plain muscle-cells of the sweat-glands are developed from ectoderm-cells, and the fibres of the sphincter and dilatator pupillge at the back of the iris are formed from the ectoderm of the anterior part of the optic cup, which also gives origin to the pigmented epithelium of the back of the iris. The cells, whether mesodermic or ectodermic, which are to develop smooth muscle, become lengthened out and pointed at the ends, with elongation of the nucleus, whilst their substance becomes longitudinally fibrillated and anisotropous, and gradually acquires its permanent condition and characteristic properties. According to McGill,' the tissue is from the first a syncytium, and retains this character throughout life. Miss McGill describes a much more complete union of the cells than it is easy to admit, in view of the readiness with which they can be dissociated after death. On the other hand, some authors have denied the existence of connexions between the cells, and believe that the apparent bridges are not muscular, but an appearance due to delicate connective tissue between the fibre-cells. This, however, is difficult to reconcile with the fact that a contraction started at any part of the tissue during life is slowly propagated far beyond the limits of the point of stimulation. The great increase in the muscular tissue of the uterus during gestation (fig. 300) takes place both by elongation and thickening of the pre-existing fibre-cells of which that non-striated tissue consists, and it is said also by the development of new muscular fibre-cells from small cells lying in the tissue. In the shrinking of the uterus after parturition the fibre-cells diminish to their previous size ; many of them become filled with fat-granules, and are supposed eventually to be removed by absorption. Regeneration of plain muscle after artificially produced lesions has been seen to be accom- panied by karyokinetic multiplication of the muscle-cells adjacent to the lesion (in the newt by Stilling and Pfitzner). CARDIAC MUSCULAR TISSUE. The fibres of the heart (figs. 301, 302, 303) differ remarkably from those of involuntary muscular organs in general, inasmuch as they present transverse striae. The striae, however, are less strongly marked, and less regular, and the fibres are smaller in diameter, than in the voluntary muscles. They differ also from these in being apparently made up of cylindrical cells (fig. 302) joined end to end and often presenting a branched or forked appearance near one extremity (c). Each cell has a single clear oval nucleus situate near the centre; occasionally two nuclei are seen. In some animals (pig, ox, sheep) the cells are multi-nucleated, the nuclei occurring in rows ; in others (cat, rabbit) they are uni- or bi-nucleated as in man.^ The cell- substance is striated longitudinally as well as transversely, the striated substance appearing to be composed of a number of fibrils or sarcostyles, which on transverse section are seen as small polygonal areas. An investing membrane or sarcolemma Fig. 302.—Six muscular fibre-cells from THE HEART. (Schiifer.) Magnified 425 diameters. a, line of junction between two cells; h, c, branching of cells. (From a drawing by Mr. J. E. Neale.) ^ Int. Monthly Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xxiv. 1907 ; Amer. Jour. Anat. ix. 1909. - Marie Werner, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. IxxV. 1910.