323 ENDOCARDIUM tunica media contains elastic fibres wliicli in parts somewhat resemble the elastic membranes found in the aorta (fig. 497, c). This description holds good especially for the auricular wall close to the auriculo-ventricular orifice, while on the ventricular side of this opening the elastic membranes are grouped so closely together as to give rise to an appearance resembling the internal elastic lamina of medium-sized blood-vessels. The tunica media contains in places scattered bundles of non-striped muscle, as first pointed out by Schweigger-Seidel. Outside the tunica media lies I c Fig. 498.—Endocardium of right ventricle covering one of the muscle columns. (Mann.) a, endothelial lining; b, combined tunica media and adventitia ; c, myocardium. the tunica adventitia, in which the elastic fibres are much coarser than in the media, a feature which reminds one of that seen in many vessels. Here also adipose tissue is frequently found. The amount of development of the endocar- dium is in inverse proportion to that of the myocardium, for in the right auricle the endocardium is four to five times thicker than in the left ventricle (v. Ebner) ; it is very thin over the musculi pectinati of both auricles and ventricles (fig. 498). Externally the endocardium is continued into the scanty connective-tissue framework of the myocardium, the so-called perimysium internum (fig. 497, h);; Fig. 499.—Diagram of section of mitral valve, young negress (Mann.) 1. Muscular portion. 2. Tendinous portion. a, ventricular endocardium, thick over the muscular, and thin over the tendinous portion, except at a', where the tunica adventitia contains many elastic fibres; 6, myocardium ; c, deep adipose portion of the endocardium, d, of the auricular surface; e, bundles of non-striped muscle in the tunica media; /, auricular fringe; g, free edge of the valve ; h, tendinous cord; i, constrictor of the auriculo-ventricular opening composed of non-striped muscle (see fig. 500). over the papillary muscles and the tendinous cords it is not only very thin but contains a relatively small amount of elastic tissue. On the auriculo-ventricular valves the endocardium is thicker on the auricular side, while on the semilunar valves it is thicker on the ventricular side (v. Ebner). The auriculo-ventricular valves (fig. 499), in addition to being lined on both sides by endocardium, contain a middle lamella of connective tissue formed by the tunica adventitia of the auricular endocardium and by the terminations of the chordfe tendineae. The elastic fibres are most abundant in the tunica adventitia on the ventricular side ; on the auricular surface are one or two elastic laminas close