riTUITARY BODY 691 a»^enor)—which forms by far the larger part of the gland—is composed of trabecular masses of epithelial cells with numerous large sinus-like blood- capillaries between them; while the portion behind the cleft consists of two parts of distinct structure, viz. an intermediate portion {fars intermedia), formed mainly of epithelial cells, less distinctly granular than those of the pars anterior and provided with far fewer blood-vessels, and a posterior part {fars nervosa sen posterior), which is continuous with the nervous tissue of the infundibulum, not always sharply marked off from the pars intermedia. Shortly stated, the pituitary body a G b f d g f Fig. 997.—Mesial, sagittal section thkough the pituitary body of an adult monkey. Semi-diagrammatic. (Herring.) a, optic chiasma; &, tongue-like process of pars intermedia; c, third ventricle ; d, anterior lobe ; /, epithelial investment of posterior lobe (pars intermedia) ; /', extension of pars inter- media over and into adjacent brain-substance; g, intraglandular cleft; li, nervous substance of posterior lobe. The dark shading indicates the anterior lobe proper ; the lighter shading shows the position of the epithelium of the pars intermedia. The arrangement is similar to that found in man, but the posterior lobe is relatively rather larger in the monkey. It must, however, be remembered that the anterior lobe and the pars intermedia almost surround the posterior lobe, and do not merely lie ventral to it as they appear to do in a median section. In the cat and many other animals the infundibular recess is prolonged well into the posterior lobe. consists anteriorly of epitbelium and posteriorly of nervous tissue, but the epithelial portion shows a distinction into two parts of different character, partially separated from one another by the intraglandular cleft. Pars anterior.—The epithelium-cells of the pars anterior are arranged in irregular clumps and trabeculae, separated by a small amount of reticular connective tissue, which contains a network of numerous and large blood-capillaries, apparently sinusoidal in nature (fig. 998). The capillaries come into very close relation with the cells, which in many places appear in section as if set round the capillaries. The cells are of two kinds, clear and granular ; which may, however, represent different Y Y 2