391 BLOOD-PLATELETS granular leucocytes from similar cells in bone-marrow. Many recent authorities ’ appear to be of opinion that the lymphocytes offer a common origin for all the varieties of leucocyte; but others, with Ehrlich, regard the lymph-cells as the Fig. 587.—Mass of blood-pl.ate- LETS, SHOWING THE DISINTE- GBATION WHICH IT UNDERGOES AT ITS PERIPHERY WHEN OBSERVED IN SALT SOLUTION ON THE WARM STAGE. (W. Osier.) source of the blood-lymphocytes (micro- and macrocytes) only, while the granular and polymorph cells are produced in the marrow.- Leucocytes have been described by several authors as undergoing multiplication by mitotic division.-'^ This is easily seen in the lymphocytes of lymph-glands and the lymph-nodules of mucous membranes and of the spleen, but is rare in the blood itself in the adult condition, although amitotic division appears sometimes to occur, especially in the polymorph cells (fig. 585). Mitotic division is also seen in the leucocytes of bone-marrow. r’v BLOOD-PLATELETS: THROMBOCYTES. Besides the erythrocytes and leucocytes, the blood contains a third corpus- cular element consisting in mammals of minute circular discoidal particles, which were first described by Zimmermann under the name elementary 'particles, and later by Bizzo- zero ^ under the name hlood-platelets. This is the name by which they are now generally known, although the term thrombocyte, which was intro- duced by Dekhuyzen, is also frequently used for them.'^ The blood-platelets in man are very small, the largest being less than one-third the diameter of an ervthrocvte. In the living- blood-vessels they are discrete (fig. 586), but in drawn blood they become clumped together into masses of varying size (fig. 587), lying here and there in the clear spaces of a microscopic preparation, between the rouleaus formed by the erythrocytes. Various views have been held regarding the nature of these particles, some having regarded them as repre- senting a stage of formation of the erythrocytes, others as produced by the disintegration of leuco- cytes ; while another opinion has been expressed that they represent merely a chemical precipitate from the plasma. But of late years there has been considerable advance made in the knowledge of these bodies. Fig. 588.—Blood-platelets, highly MAGNIFIED, SHOWING THE AMOEBOID FORMS WHICH THEY ASSUME WHEN EXAMINED UNDER SUIT.ABLE CONDI- TIONS, AND ALSO EXHIBITING THE CHROMATIC PARTICLE WHICH EACH PLATELET CONTAINS, AND WHICH HAS BEEN REGARDED AS A NUCLEUS. (After Kopsch.) 1 E.(j. Saxer, op. rAt.; Maximow, op. cit,; Bryce, Trans. Roy. Soc. Ed. xli. l!)04-5 ; Weidenreicli, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiii. 1909. See also ‘ Die Leukocyten ’ in Merkel and Bonnet’s Ergebn. d. Anat. xix. 1909. Weidenreicli believes that the small lymphocytes (microcytes) are derived from the larger ones by division, and themselves grow into larger ones (macrocytes). - Cf. Schridde, Centralbl. f. allg. Pathol, xx. 1909. See further on this subject, Pappenheim, ‘Atlas d. menschl. Blutzellen,’ Jena, 1905, and Niigeli, ‘Die weissen Blutkbrperchen,’ in Ehrlich and Lazarus’ Die Ansemie, 2nd edition, 1909. ^ Van der Stricht, Anat. Anz. 1891; C. E. Walker, o^j. cit. Virchow’s Archiv, xviii. 1800. See also M. Schultze, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. i. p. 39. Virch. Arch. xc. 1882. One of the earliest and best accounts of these structures is that given by Hayem (Arch, de physiol. 1878 and 1879), who, however, supposed that they give rise to erythrocytes and termed them lucmatohlasts. ® For methods of examination of blood-platelets see Dcetjen, Zeitschr. f. physiol. Chem. Ixiii. 1909.