ENDINGS IN 8EN8E-OKGANS ^ See Neurology, p. 147, by Schafer and Symington (Vol. III. Part I. of this work). ‘285 epithelium which elsewhere lines the membranous labyrinth undergoes a remarkable modification into columnar cells (fig. 452), each of which is terminated by a stiff-looking tapered hair-like process which projects into the endolymph which fills the membranous labyrinth. In the utricle and saccule these ‘ hairs ^ abut against a mucus-like mass containing numerous crystals of carbonate of lime (otoliths) ; in the ampullae of the semicircular canals, where the macula takes the form of a crest-like projection into the interior, there are no otoliths, but a mucus-like mass is recognisable in the form of the so-called cupula. Between the hair-cells are other sustentacular or fibre-cells which extend through the thickness of the epithelium and form, at the free surface, a kind of cuticular membrane through which the ‘ hairs ^ of the hair-cells project. The nerve-fibres are derived from bipolar cells situated in a ganglion of the nerve-root (ganglion of Scarpa). The peripheral processes of these cells pass as medullated nerve-fibres to the maculse, and here they lose their medullary sheath and end in a fibrillar arborescence amongst the hair-cells (fig. 453). The central processes of the bipolar cells (fig. 448) enter the grey matter of the medulla Fig 453.—Ending of a nebve-fibke amongst the peak-shaped cells of macula. Golgi method, (v. Lenhossek.) oblongata as fibres of the vestibular division of the eighth nerve and terminate in its sensory nuclei.^ In the cochlea the epithelium, which is modified to receive the endings of the auditory nerve-fibres, forms part of the so-called organ of Corti (fig. 455). As in the vestibule, the membranous canal or duct of the cochlea, which is triangular in section, is lined by flattened epithelium-cells except at one part, the base of the triangle, where a fibrous membrane, the basilar membrane, stretches across the tube of the cochlea from the spiral lamina to the outer wall, and separates the endolymph of the duct of the cochlea from the perilymph of the scala tympani. The cells which form the organ of Corti rest on this membrane, and are covered by a soft pad-like projection from the thickened edge (limbus) of the spiral lamina : this projection is the membrana tectoria. Beneath its attachment the cells of the organ of Corti are continued as a pavement-epithelium over the limbus, and on the surface of a thin membrane (membrane of Reissner), which separates the endolymph of the membranous canal or duct of the cochlea from the perilymph of the scala vestibuli, and is stretched between the limbus and the outer wall of the cochlear