624 TESTICLE 3*5 in the breadth of the head. Duplication of head or tail, occasionally met with, is probably due to abnormality of development. Blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves.—Blood-vessels pass into the organ by the mediastinum, and ramify over the septula and inner surface of the tunica albuginea ; these vessels pass amongst the seminiferous tubules. In the intertubular tissue are large sinus-like lymphatics, which pass out to the spermatic cord alongside the blood-vessels. There is also a lymphatic plexus under the albuginea and a subserous plexus under the tunica vaginalis. The arteries and veins of the testis and epididymis are thin-walled and have relatively little muscular tissue. The internal spermatic artery, which passes to the testicle in the spermatic cord, resembles in structure ordinary arteries of the Fig. 909.—Different forms of spermatozoa. (From Verworn.) a, of bat; 6, c, of frog ; cl, of finch ; e, of ram ; /, g, of boar; h, of a jelly- fish ; i, of a monkey ; k, of round-worm; I, of crab. same size; but the corresponding veins in the cord have very thick walls, with a circular muscular coat even thicker than that of the arteries, and with longitudinal muscular fibres both in the intima, ' and in the form of strong bundles also in the adventitia. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic; they accompany the blood-vessels and are mainly distributed to these (Ketzius). They do not penetrate into the tubules.^ Those of the epididymis have occasional ganglia in their course, but there are no ganglia on the nerves to the vas deferens (Timofeew). Intertubular substance.—The tissue between the tubules is composed of loose areolar tissue with numerous elastic fibres, many of which encircle the tubules and help to constitute their walls (fig. 910). The tissue contains a few ordinary flattened connective-tissue cells and mast-cells, and a variable amount of cells and cell-groups of peculiar character, known as the interstitial cells (Leydig) (figs. 900, 901, 902). According to the testimony of most observers, these cells have a mesen- chymic origin, and should therefore be regarded as modified connective-tissue cells. But in animals in which they are abundant, as the cat and the boar, they'have the appearance of masses of epithelium-like cells, either isolated or joined together into strands which may form a network between the tubules. When pre- sent in abundance they confer a firm character upon the testicular substance. In man they are fairly numerous, and are composed of polygonal or somewhat flattened cells with well marked excentric nuclei, each showing a distinct nuclear network and nucleolus. The cell-protoplasm contains a double centrosome (Eberth) close to the nucleus (fig. 911, a). The cytoplasm frequently is found to 1 According to Sclavunos nerve-fibrils penetrate to the epithelium both in the seminiferous tubes and in the ducts (Anat. Anz. i.^. 1894).