VITAL PHENOIVIENA OF PROTOPLASM G8 A good example of sueh building-up assoeiated with ehemical transformations in both proto- plasm and nueleus, whilst at the same tirne complicated by the extrusion of secretion material, is presented by the tentacle cells of the leaf of Drosera as studied by Miss L. Huie.' In these the protoplasm of the cell prior to feeding with albumin is full of basiphil granules, whilst the nucleus has little basichromatin, but a large nucleolus and many oxyphil granules (fig. 110, a.) The placing of protein food upon the leaf has the effect of producing a discharge of the basiphil granules, along witli the watery fluid which serves, as Darwin found, to digest the protein substance. Accom]mnying this discharge the protoplasm shrinks and becomes much vacuolated ; the fine granules which remain in it are oxyphil (fig. 110, h). In the nucleus, the most conspicuous changes are the building-up of basichromatin, which takes the form of distinct chromoplasts, and the discharge or transformation of much of the oxyphil granulation and of the nucleolar substance.- Subsequently the cells absorb the digested products, and undergo Fig. 110.—Gland-cells from tentacle of Drosera. (L. Huie.) a, a cell before feeding, the cytoplasm abundant, with many basiphil granules: the nucleus contains a large nucleolus and many oxyphil granules; &, 20-30 hours after feeding with albumin; the cytoplasm is now oxyphil, the nuclear chromatin is abundant and collected into chromosomes. a gradual process of restoration; basiphil granules reappear in the protoplasm, and the nucleus and nucleolus again assume their original appearance, the cell eventually reverting to the condition shown in fig. 110, a. Conditions influencing* the contractile manifestations of proto- plasm.—All the several manifestations of contractility are influenced in the same manner by similar external conditions. Thus it is found that variations of tem- perature have a marked effect upon all. In warm-blooded animals the phenomena cease altogether to be exhibited if the protoplasm which is under observation is cooled to below a temperature of about 10° C., although they will be resumed on warming the preparation again, and this even if it has been cooled to 0° C., or a little lower. And when warmed gradually, it is found that the movements become more active as the temperature rises, attaining a maximum of activity a few ' Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. 1897 and 1898. - Tlie chemical and morphological changes in the nuclear contents during the growth of cells prior to cell-division have been studied, r>iter alios, by Carnoy and Lebrun in the ovum of Triton (La Cellule, 1898), and by Tellyesnicky in the spermatogonia of Salamandra (Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesell., Anat. Anz. XXV. i904; Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixvi. 395).