MUSCLE 188 The theory of the constitution of cell-protoplasm of a contractile reticulum and enchylema (see p. 18), which was about this time prevalent, had a marked influence upon the views which now came to be held regarding the structure of muscle. Various observers (Melland, C. T. Marshall, Van Gehuchten, and Ramon y Cajal), who during the next five or six years investigated the structure of jnuscle, mainly with the aid of acid and gold preparations, regarded the appear- ances of these preparations as proving the existence of a contractile reticulum in muscle, and concluded that the material in the meshes of the supposed reticulum—that is to say, the whole of the muscle-fibrils—must represent the enchylema of protoplasm. The breaking-up of the so-called inter-reticular substance into muscle-fibrils they regarded as purely artificial. But the researches of Rollett, which were published in 1885 and 1886,’ showed any such view to be untenable, and brought the matter back to the former standpoint. The results of these researches tended to demonstrate that the filaments of the so-called ‘ reticulum ’ of the above-mentioned authors are neither more nor less than the septa of sarcoplasm which intervenes between columns of the muscle-substance ; that these columns (fibrils) pre-exist in muscle, and are the actual contractile elements of the muscle ; and that the sarcoplasm between them may represent the undifferentiated remains of the protoplasm of the original cell from which the muscular fibre'has been developed. Haycraft (1891) regarded the various cross-markings upon muscle as due entirely to the optical effect caused by varicosities in the fibrils upon the light which is traversing them. As showing that this view is tenable, Haycraft found that perfectly similar appearances of cross- striation can be obtained from collodion in which impressions of alcohol-hardened muscle have been made, and in which there are certainly no structural differences. But the undoubted fact that the sarcous elements stain distinctively with certain reagents which leave the clear ]3art of the fibril quite colourless, and that, moreover, a special structure can be demonstrated in them, proves that the experiment upon which Haycraft relied, interesting as it undoubtedly is, does not justify the conclusion he drew from it—viz. that the fibril is homogeneous throughout.- McDougall (1897) ” also assumes a homogeneity of the fibrils, except that he believes in the existence of transverse membranes, not only in the situation of Dobie’s line, but also at that of Hensen and at the planes of junction of the singly and doubly refracting materials. He supposes that there is a longitudinally creased inextensible membrane of a semi-permeable character enclosing the more ot less fluid contents of the fibril, and that through this by osmosis or otherwise water passes into the fibril from the surrounding sarcoplasm. Each sarcomere is thereby swollen, the swelling occurring to the greatest extent in the region of the doubly refracting substance (owing to the supposed inextensibility of Krause’s membrane being greater than that of the other transverse membranes), thus producing a shortening of the sarcomeres. Later McDougall supposed that the transference of water is caused by the development of lactic acid either within or outside the sarcomere. McDougall’s hypothesis has been criticised by Bernstein,^ by Macdonald,^ and by the author,” who have shown that, apart from the undoubted fact that histological differentiation can be shown to be present in the sarcomere, the passage of fluid from the sarcoplasm into the sarcomere is for various reasons not tenable as a possible explanation of the energy produced in contraction. Nor was McDougall himself able to show that the sarcomere enlarges in volume during contraction, as it must do if it imbibes water from the sarcoplasm ; moreover, he admits that it is not possible to cause a model of such a fibre as he has supposed to exist, to contract to less than two-thirds of its original length, whereas it is known that muscle may contract to one-third or one-quarter of its length. Further may be mentioned the fact that the isolated fibrils of the wing-muscles of insects undergo contraction when surrounded with other fluids than sarcoplasm, such as salt-solution (even hyper-isotonic), or white of egg. Contraction cannot therefore be explained by movement of fluid from outside to within the fibrils : the movement must be movement of fluid from one part of the sarcomere to the other. It is universally admitted by those who hold this view that this movement is from the more fluid part of the sarcomere near the membrane of Krause to the less fluid part which forms the sarcous element.^ Granting this transfer, the question has yet to be answered, what is the ^ Wiener Denkschviften, Bde. 49 and 51. “ J. B. Haycraft, Proc. Roy. Soc. xlix. 1891. ^ Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxi. 1897 and xxxii. 1898; Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol, iii. 1900. McDougall’s theory has been lately adopted by Meiggs (Ainer. Journ. Physiol. 1905, and Zeitschr. f. allg. Physiol. 1908). •' Pfliiger’s Archiv, cx. 1905. Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol. 1909, ii. '■ Ibid. iii. 1910. See also S. Gutherz, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxv. 1910. Hiirthle (Pfliiger’s Archiv, cxxvi. 1908) has endeavoured to investigate this question in instan- taneous photographs of living muscle of insect leg, and the measurements which he gives of the dark iind light stripes in rest and contraction respectively appear not to bear out the generally received view