TACTILE COIIPUSCLES. 2B1 the form of imperfect membranous septa (figs. 405,406, A, and 407), between which are supported the convolutions and ramifications of the nerves, and the enlarge- 71 Fig. 404.—Tactile corpuscle with- in A PAPILLA OF THE SKIN OF THE HAND, STAINED WITH CHLORIDE OF GOLD. (Kanvier.) Highly magnified. n, 11, two nerve-fibres passing to the corpuscle; a, a, terminal varicose ramifications of the axis-cylinder within the corpuscle. A Fig. 406.—Tactile corpuscles FROM THE PALM OF THE HAND SEEN IN SECTION. (Merkel.) A, longitudinal section show- ing the interior traversed by connective-tissue septa derived from the capsule ; the nerve-fibres are cut across. B, transverse section at the point of entrance of a nerve-fibre, showing the axis- cylinder branching. Other nerve- fibres are cut obliquely. Fig. 405.—Another corpuscle, treated with osmic acid, seen in longitudin.4.l section. (Flemming, from a j)reparation by Fischer.) 1, entering nerve-fibre, medullated; 2, 2, the same cut variously within the corj)uscle; 3, 3, clear spaces around the fibre (perhaps homologous with the core of the cylindrical end- bulbs) ; 4, 4, nuclei of the transverse and siiirally disposed cells of the corpuscle. ments in which the branches of the axis- cylinder eventually end (fig. 404). These terminal enlargements are usually near the capsule, and in small tactile corpuscles may occasionally project beyond it; (fig. 407). On entering the corpuscle the nerve-fibres for the most part lose their medullary sheath, but some retain it for a short while, or it may reappear here and there in the course of the fibres. The axis-cylinders, which are often varicose, have, as before intimated, a convoluted course before ending in their terminal enlargements (fig. 404). The core within which the axis-cylinder courses is composed of protoplasmic cells, mostly flattened. The enlargements of the axis-cylinder, both in its course and at its endings, contain a network of neuro-fibrils ‘ (fig. 407). ’ Van de Velde, op. cit. Fig. 407.—A tactile corpuscle from the human finger, showing cells of corpus- cle AND nerve-endings WITH NEURO- FIBRILS. (Van de Velde.) a, entering axis-cylinder; h, connective-tissue capsule; c, an extra-capsular nerve-ending.