STOMACH 525 pharynx tlie alveoli of the mucous glands are invested by sinus-like lymphatic vessels (Kidd). The nerves form a gangliated plexus between the two layers of the muscular coat, as in other parts of the alimentary canal, but it is here characterised by the comparatively large size of the groups of ganglion-cells and of the cells them- selves, and also by the fact that it contains, besides non-medullated fibres, a con- siderable number of medullated nerve-fibres (derived from the vagi) and distri- buted in terminal arborisations (motor end-organs) in the striped muscular fibres (Ranvier). The non-medullated fibres are distributed chiefly to the plain muscular tissue. There is also a gangliated plexus in the sub-mucous tissue, from which fibres pass to the glands, and to the muscularis mucosae, whilst others penetrate between the deeper layers of the stratified epithelium and end in an open arborisa- tion of varicose fibrils between the cells (fig. 760).* THE STOMACH, The stomach has four coats, named, in order from without inwards, the serous, muscular, areolar or submucous, and mucous tunics (fig. 761). The external or serous coat {s), derived from the peritoneum, is a thin, smooth, trans- parent, and elastic membrane, which closely covers the entire viscus, excepting along its two curva- tures, and a small area near the cardiac end. Along the line of these curvatures the attachment is looser, leaving an interval occupied by the larger blood-vessels. The second, or muscular coat, is composed of plain muscular tissue, forming three sets of fibres, disposed in layers, and named, from their direction, the longitudinal, the circular, and the oblique fibres. The first or outermost layer consists of the longi- tudinal fibres (fig. 761, l.m., fig. 762, A), which are in direct continuity with those of the oesophagus. They spread out in a radiating manner from the cardiac orifice, and are found in greatest abun- dance along the curvatures, especially the lesser one. On the anterior and posterior surfaces they are very thinly scattered, or scarcely to be found, but towards the pylorus are well marked and form a thick uniform layer, which, passing over the pylorus, becomes continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the duodenum. The second set consists of the circular fibres (fig. 761, c.m., fig. 762, B), which form a complete layer over the whole extent of the stomach. They commence by small and thinly scattered rings at the extremity of the great cul-de-sac, describe larger and larger circles as they surround the body of the stomach at right-angles to its curved axis, and towards the pyloric end again form smaller rings, and at the same time become much thicker and stronger than at any other point. At the Fig. 761.—Section turough the COATS OF THE STOMACH. Dia- grammatic. (Mall.) m., mucous membrane; e., epi- thelium ; cl, orifice of gland-duct; m.m., muscularis mucoso? ; sm., sub- mucous coat; c.m., circular muscular layer; l.m., longitudinal muscular layer ; s., serous coat. ' G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. iv. 1892.