444 MUCOUS MEMBEANES smaller polygonal pits or recesses. This peculiar character of the surface of the membrane, which has been termed ‘ alveolar,’ is seen very distinctly in the gall- bladder, and on a finer scale in the vesiculse seminales ; still more minute recesses with intervening ridges may be discovered with a lens on the mucous membrane of the stomach ; the recesses here are the orifices of the closely set gastric glands. G-lands of mucous membranes.—Many, indeed most, of the glands of the body pour their secretions into the great passages lined by mucous membranes ; but there are certain small secreting glands which may be said to belong to the membrane itself, inasmuch as they are found in numbers over large tracts of that membrane, and yield either mucus or special secretions known to be formed in particular portions of the membrane. Omitting local peculiarities, the glands referred to mav be described as of two kinds, viz. : Simple tubular glands or crypts.—These are minute tubes formed by recesses or inversions of the basement-membrane, and lined with epithelium. They are usually placed perpendicularly to the surface and often very closely together, and they constitute the chief substance of the mucous membrane in those parts where they abound, its thickness depending on the length of the tubes, which differs considerably in difierent regions. The tubes open by one end on the surface ; the other end is closed, and is either simple or cleft into two or more branches. Such tubular glands are abundant in the stomach, and in the small and large intestines, where they are comparatively short and are known as the crypts of Lieberkiihn. They exist also in considerable numbers in the mucous membrane of the uterus, where they are longer and tend to be convoluted. Small racemose glands.—Under this head are here comprehended minute glands of the racemose and tubulo-racemose kind, which open on the surface of the membrane by a longer or shorter duct. Numbers of these, yielding some a mucous, others a more albuminous or serous secretion, open into the mouth. When the mucous membrane of this cavity is dissected off, these glands are seen on its attached surface as small solid bodies, often of a flattened form, but varying much both in shape and size, and placed at different depths below the mucous membrane, on which their ducts open. They are also met with throughout the pharynx and gullet and in the larynx, trachea, and bronchial tubes ; in all these parts their secretion is of a purely mucous character. The glands of Brunner, which occur in the submucous tissue of the duodenum, near its junction with the stomach, also bear a superficial resemblance to the racemose mucous glands, and in minute structure are not unlike them, but the nature of their secretion appears to be different.