MINUTE STRUCTURE 14:^ cartilage of bone, but improperly, for it differs entirely from cartilage in structure, as well as in physical properties and chemical nature. It is much softer and much more flexible, and, by boiling, it is almost wholly resolved into gelatin, which may be extracted from bones, in form of a jelly, by boiling them for a considerable time ; the animal matter of bone is therefore composed, like fibrous and areolar tissue, of collagen. The lining membranes of the Haversian canals and the walls of the lacunae are formed of a material which resists the action of strong hydrochloric acid, which dissolves the remainder of the animal matter. Blinute structure of bone,—On sawing up a bone, it will be seen that it is in some parts dense and close in texture, appearing like ivory ; in others. Fig. 227.—Longitudinal section thbough the upper end of the femur, showing the CANCELLOUS STRUCTUilE OF THE HEAD AND THE COMPACT SUBSTANCE OF THE SHAFT. (From a photograph by Professor Robinson.) The lines taken by the trabeculae of the spongy substance—which are those best calculated to resist pressure on the articular surface—are well shown in this photograph. open and reticular (fig. 227) ; and anatomists accordingly distinguish two forms of osseous tissue—viz. the com'pact, and the spongy or cancellated. On closer examination, however, especially with the aid of a magnifying-glass, it will be found that the bony matter is everywhere porous in a greater or less degree, and that the difference between the two varieties of tissue depends on the different amount of solid matter compared with the size and number of the open spaces in each ; the cavities being very small in the compact parts of the bone, with much dense matter between them ; whilst in the cancellated texture the spaces are large, and the intervening bony partitions thin and slender. There is, accordingly, no abrupt limit between the two—they pass into one another by degrees, the cavities of the compact tissue widening out, and the reticulations