PAPILL7E 455 are ranged in parallel curved lines, as has already been mentioned.* As M. Heidenliain lias pointed out, the superficial ridges do not necessarily correspond exactly with the uppermost parts of the laminae, but often with the spaces between the laminae. The papillae are of a conical figure, rounded at the top and some- times cleft into two or more points (see fig. 654). In structure they resemble the rest of the superficial layer of the corium, and consist of a finely fibrillated tissue, with a few elastic fibres. The bundles of fibrils chiefly run parallel to the axis of the papilla and the fibrils appear to end near its surface, which has a somewhat cor- rugated aspect. On the palm, sole, and nipple, where they are mostly of the com- pound variety, they measure from 0T25 to 0*25 mm. in height. On the ridges, the papillae are placed commonly in double rows, with a space free from papillae Fig. 663.—Section of skin with blood-vessels in.tected. (v. Brunn.) ^ a, papillary layer of cutis vera; a', subpapillary plexus; h, reticular layer of cutis vera; subcutaneous plexus; c, panniculus adiposus. between them (fig. 662) ; there are no papillae in the grooves between the ridges. The ridges which are seen at the surface of the epidermis are marked at short and tolerably regular intervals with notches or short transverse furrows, in each of which, about its middle, is the minute funnel-shaped orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland. In other parts of the skin the papillae are broader, shorter, fewer in number, and irregularly scattered. On the face they are only from *003 mm. to *005 mm. in height; here they disappear altogether in parts, or are replaced by slightly elevated reticular ridges. Fine blood-vessels enter most of the papillae, forming either a simple capillary loop in each, or dividing into two or more capillary branches, according to the size of the papilla and its simple or composite form. Other papillae receive nerves, and contain tactile corpuscles (fig. 654). ^ relative development of the ridges and papillaa of the cutis see Blaschko, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol. 1884 and 1885, and Arch, f. mikr. Anat. xxxi. 1887.