TEETH 498 the periphery of the dentine the tubules, which by division and subdivision have become very fine, terminate imperceptibly by free ends. The tubules have each a proper wall {sheath of Neumann) independent of the intertubular matrix, but intimately adhering to it. By steeping sections of decal- cified dentine in strong hydrochloric acid, the matrix is destroyed, and these mem- branous walls, which consist of a more resisting material, remain behind. Edse states that these sheaths, which are formed of a material which calcifies either late or not at all, anastomose freely, and that it is their anastomoses which have been often taken for those of the tubules themselves. In the temporary, and sometimes even in the permanent teeth, the tubules are constricted at short intervals, so as to present a moniliform character. The terminal branches of tubules are occasionally seen to pass on into the cement covering the fang, and to communicate with canaliculi proceeding from the bone lacunae characteristic of that layer. Tubules have likewise been observed by Tomes and others penetrating into the enamel. In this case they pass, not into the enamel prisms, but into the inter- prismatic substance (fig. 727). The matrix of the dentine {intertubular substance) may, after decalcification, be torn into laminae parallel with the internal surface of the pulp-cavity, and there- FiG. 726.—A SMALL PORTION OF THE DENTINE WITH INTERGLOBULAR SPACES (Klilliker.) Magnified 350 diameters. c, iiortion of incremental line formed by the interglobular spaces, -which are here filled up by the transparent material used in mounting the specimen. fore across the direction of the tubules (Sharpey). It has been shown by v. Ebner and Mummery that the matrix contains fine fibrils arranged for the most part parallel to the surface of the pulp, like those of the lamellte of bone. These fibrils are not themselves calcified, but are enveloped in the calcified interfibrillar substance, and, according to Mummery, are continuous withi fibrils of the dental pulp. The laminated structure is an indication of the deposition of dentinal substance in successive strata in the process of formation of the tooth—the laminae corre- sponding with the shape of the pulp-surface at successive stages of the process. Not infrequently lines, varying in number and breadth, are seen in sections of the dry tooth, conforming in direction with the lamination just spoken of {incremental lines, Salter, fig. 725, c). They are caused by the drying of imperfectly calcified dentine, which shows little cavities bounded by, and therefore receiving their figure from. Fig. 727.—Section of part of the crown OF A TOOTH, parallel WITH THE GENERAL SET OF THE ENAMEL PRISMS. (Rauber.) Magnified 200 diameters. a, pointed projection of dentine; Z), tubules extending from the dentine into tlie enamel; c, enamel-prisms ; d, prisms cut across; e, cuticle of the enamel.