452 THE SKIN cells as they proceed outwards becoming flattened and transformed into horny matter. This change seems to occur quite abruptly at the stratum lucidum; superficial to this the cells again swell out somewhat, until on reaching the layers nearest the surface they are entirely transformed into structureless horny scales which are constantly undergoing desquamation. Xtegreneratioiii—When a portion of epidermis has been removed by a blister or wound of any kind, there is reason to suppose that its regeneration, like its growth, takes place only from cells of the Malpighian layer. If the whole of the epidermis over an extensive surface has been destroyed or removed, the process of regeneration is very slow, since the new covering has to grow in from the epidermis at the margins of the wound. But if the deeper cells have not been wholly removed, the regenera- tion may start from the places where any of them still remain, and the formation of the new covering is proportionately quicker. In the operation of ‘ skin-grafting ’ the surgeon endeavours to transplant from a healthy portion of skin small pieces of the epidermis, including its deeper layers, to the denuded surface : if the operation succeed, each such graft acts as a centre from which the new formation of epidermis may spread, and in this way the raw surface may be much more speedily covered. CUTIS VEEA. The true skin, cutis vera, or derma is a sentient and vascular fibrous mem- brane. It is covered and protected, as already explained, by the non-vascular cuticle, and is attached to the parts beneath by a layer of areolar tissue, named ‘ subcu- taneous,’ which, except in a few parts, contains fat, and has therefore been also called the ‘panniculus adiposus’ (fig. 661). The connexion is in many places loose and movable, in others close and firm, as on the palmar surface of the hand and the sole of the foot, where the skin is fixed to the subjacent fascia by numerous stout fibrous bands {retinacula cutis), the space between being filled with a firm padding of fat. In some regions of the body the skin is moved by striated muscular fibres, which may be unattached to fixed parts, as in the case of the orbicular muscle of the mouth, or they may be attached beneath to bones or fasciae, as is the case with the other cutaneous muscles of the face and neck, and the short palmar muscle of the hand. Structure.—The cutis vera is made up of an extremely strong and tough frame- work of interlaced connective-tissue bundles. Its fibres are chiefly of the white variety, such as constitute the main part of the fibrous and areolar tissues; the bundles are stout and arranged loosely, except near the surface; where the texture becomes finer and closer. The principal bundles of the corium do not run anyhow, but have a regular average direction in diflerent parts of the body (Langer), the direction being for the most part transverse to that of the subjacent muscles. With these are mixed elastic fibres, which vary in amount in diflerent parts. Elastic tissue occurs in all parts of the cutis vera and of the subcutaneous tissue. It is extensively developed in some of the superficial fasciae—such as that of the abdomen —where it forms close networks, almost amounting to continuous membranes (Kolliker). Its fibres are very fine in the papillary part of the cutis and in the papillae themselves, where they have a vertical arrangement; whereas in the reticular layer they are not only much coarser, but their general arrangement is parallel to the surface. Many elastic fibres also accompany the blood-vessels, and enter into the formation of the connective-tissue sheaths of the hair-follicles and the connective-tissue investments of the sweat-glands and their ducts. The cutis vera contains numerous branched connective-tissue corpuscles, mostly of the lamellar variety; many of them lie in the interstices of the white bundles, against which they are flattened. Other kinds of connective-tissue cells