OVARY 646 The smallest Graafian follicles are usually found near the surface of the ovary in the so-called cortical layer. They form in some animals an almost continuous series immediately within the subepithelial layer of the ovarian stroma (fig. 935); but in the human ovary they are relatively few in number, and are separated from one another by considerable intervals of stroma. In the new-born child they are much more numerous, but many atrophy as growth progresses. ^ As the Graafian follicles enlarge they sink into the stroma; the largest are found in the deeper parts. It is only their distension by the liquor folliculi which again brings one part of the enlarging follicle to the surface. Every Graafian follicle does not develop to the point of discharging its contents—many undergo atrophy after developing to a certain size, and their contents, including the ovum, become shrunken (fig. 938, h) and eventually absorbed. The theca of the larger follicles is double, having a specially differentiated part of the stroma as its outer layer and a stratum containing large granular cells as its inner layer ; both layers contain blood-vessels, the inner being provided with Fig. 937.—Section op the ovary of a newly-born child. (Waldeyer.) Highly magnified. a, Ovarian or germinal epithelium; 6, formation of an ovarian tube; c, c, primordial ova lying in the germ epithelium; cZ, d, longer tube becoming constricted to form nests of cells; e, e, larger nests; /, distinct follicle with ovum and epithelium; g, g, blood-vessels. a capillary network, the outer having the ramifications of the arterioles and venules. The blood-vessels enter the wall at its deepest part, and converge towards a point near the middle of its most projecting portion {stigma), where the rupture of the mature follicle occurs. The ova within the smaller follicles are of small size, but contain a larger spherical clear nucleus and large nucleolus : they have no very distinct membrane. As the Graafian follicles enlarge the ovum enlarges within it, and the follicular epithelium-cells arrange themselves like a columnar epithelium around the ovum. The membrane of the ovum now begins to appear, and as the enlargement of the follicle proceeds it attains a considerable thickness. It is probably formed by the columnar cells of the discus proligerus—but it does not wholly shut them off from the ovum, for they retain a connection with its cytoplasm by fine processes which pass through pores in the membrane (G. Ketzius). These pores give the 1 It is stated that there are as many as 100,000 ova in the ovaries at birth and about 20,000 at puberty. Of these not more than 400 attain maturity (see F. H. A. Marshall, The Physiology of Reproduction, 1910).