491 LINGUAL PAPILLAE contain numerous blood-vessels winch extend into closely set vascular secondary papilliB (fig. 712). The conical papillw are the most numerous, as well as the smallest. They are minute, tapering, or cylindrical prominences, densely set over the greater part of the dorsum of the tongue (fig. 708, 4), but gradually disappearing towards its base. They are arranged in lines diverging from the raphe, at first in an oblique direction, parallel with the two ranges of papillae vallatae, but gradually becoming transverse towards the tip of the tongue. At the sides they are longer and more slender, and their rows are arranged perpendicular to the border of the tongue. The microscopic papillae which Fig. 714.—Two filifokm papilla, one EPITHELIUM AND WITH THE BLOOD-VESSELS INJECTED, THE OTHEK WITHOUT. (Todd and Bowman.) 35 diameters. occur upon the conical papillae are peculiar both in containing a number of elastic fibres, and in the character of their epithelial cover- ing; this is always very thick and some- times forms a separate horny process over each secondary papilla, much greater in length than the papilla which it covers (fig. 713). Over some of the papillae the horny processes split up into a pencil of fine fibres, (fig. 714); the name ‘ filiform ^ has been applied to these. P Fig. 715.—Tongue of rabbit, showing the SITUATION OF THE PAPILLA FOLIATiE, p, p. (Schafer.) The papillary surface of the tongue is abundantly supplied with nerves, some of which terminate in end-bulbs, a few in tactile corpuscles. In the fungiform papillae the nerves are large and numerous; they are still more abundant, and of greater sizie, in the circumvallate papillae, where they are chiefly distributed in the neighbourhood of the taste-buds (fig. 709). The papillae, besides being the parts chiefly concerned in the special sense of taste, also possess, in a very acute degree, tactile sensi- bility; while the conical papillae, armed with their dense epithelial covering, serve a mechanical purpose, in the action of the tongue upon the food, as is well illustrated by the greater development that these papillae attain in many carnivorous animals. p, the substance of the papillae divided at their upper extremities into secondary papillae ; a, artery, and v, vein, connected by capillary loops; e, epithelial covering, laminated between the papillae, but extended into hair-like processes, /, over the secondary papillae. In some animals {e.g. rabbit) there is present on eaeh side of the tongue, nearly opposite the ends of the V formed by the line of papillae vallatae, an oval aggregation of transversely placed ridges or laminae with intervening furrows, which is termed the papilla foliata (fig. 1\5, p, p).