221 PKOCESSES OE NERVE-CELLS cerebro-spinal ganglia (posterior or dorsal root-ganglia,^ Gasserian ganglion, ganglion of the trunk of the vagus, &c.) and in the superior or accessory motor-nucleus of the fifth cerebral nerve. They are usually spheroidal in shape. The process which comes oh from the cell is always an axon or nerve-fibre process, and receives a medullary sheath soon after leaving the cell. It is generally convoluted close to the cell-body and before emerging from the capsule (figs. 341, 342). After a short course as a single fibre it bifurcates, the branching being T- or Y-shaped (figs. 341 to 343). One branch (centripetal) passes towards the nerve-centre (posterior root-fibre, sensory root-fibre), where it ultimately terminates by fine ramifications within the grey matter; the other branch (centrifugal) passes peripherally and forms a sensory (afferent) fibre of a peripheral nerve. The spinal ganglion cells vary greatly in size and in Fig. 342.—Two nebve-cells fbom a spinal GANGLION (human). (Retzius.) sh, nucleated sheath ; 7i, n, nuclei of the primitive sheath of the nerve. Prom each cell a fibre can be seen to arise, and, after a convoluted course on the surface of the nerve-cell, to bifurcate (opposite cl); from which point the divisions pass either in the opposite direction to one another, as in A, or at first in the sa.me direction as in B. The nuclei of the sheath of the nerve-cell are all represented in B, but only those seen in profile have been represented in A. Fig. 343. — Two spinal ganglion-cells SHOWING BIFUBCATION OF THE NEBVE- FiBBE PBOCESS. Osmic preparation. (Ranvier.) n, nucleus of ganglion-cell; ii', nuclei of capsules; 7i", nuclei of neurolemma; c, c', constrictions of Ranvier. appearance, some being clearer, others more granular (fig. 341). Most of them are large and conspicuous. Each cell is covered by a membranous sheath with nuclei upon its inner surface (fig. 342) : this sheath is prolonged over the issuing fibre, and is continuous with the nucleated sheath of the fibre. Frequently a fine non-medullated fibre is seen within the sheath ramifying over the cell-body or around the issuing axon (fig. 344). This is derived either from some other cell ' Nerve-cells are in some situations met with among the fibres of the ventral roots of some of the spinal nerves. They are constant in the cat (Schiifer, Proc. Roy. Soc. 1880), and are also found occasionally in the lumbar and sacral nerves of man (Hoch, Beitr. z. Kenntn. d. anat. Verhaltens, Ac. Heidelberg, 1891).