671 THYROID seen in them are connected with the secretory activity of the cell is probable, but observations are still lacking regarding the exact nature of the secretory appearances. The secretion of the thyroid is essential to health. If, in man, the gland be removed by the knife or destroyed by disease, or if it be congenitally absent or atrophied, a con- dition of myxoedema or of cretinism may result,' wliich can only be amehorated by administering thyroid substance or extract.- Besides the characteristic yellow glairy fluid, the vesicles may also contain detached epithelium- cells, white blood-corpuscles, which seem to have migrated into the cavities, and red blood-corpuscles in various sta2;es of disinteo;ration and decolorisa- tion; but whether these last are accidental or normal constituents is uncertain. In the interstitial connective tissue of the gland occur a number of cells similar to the plasma-cells of Waldeyer (‘ parenchyma-cells,’ Baber). Occasionally small bodies detached from the main mass of the thyroid are found, having all the structure of the normal thyroid {accessory thyroids). Fig. 965.—Thyroid of dog, in.iec- TED. (Schiifer.) Photograph. Fig. 966.—Section of human thyroid, injected. (Major.) Highly magnified. The close relationship of the capillaries to the epithelium of the vesicle is well shown. One of the most frequent pathological changes to which the thyroid body is subject consists in a great accumulation of colloid substance within its vesicles: in certain forms of goitre it distends them to an enormous degree. Goitre is especially common in certain regions, e.g. Derbyshire, ^ V. Horsley, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxviii. 1884, xl. 1886 ; Murray, Diseases of the Thyroid Gland, 1900 ; Pathology and Diseases of the Thyroid Gland, 1901. - Myxoedema does not necessarily occur as a result of thyroid removal in animals, although it seems to be a constant feature of thyroid atrophy in man. See Munk, Virch. Arch. cl. 1897 ; Kishi ibid. clxxvi. 1904; Vincent and Jolly, Journ. Physiol, xxxii. 1905 and xxxiv. 1906; Halpenny and Gunn Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol, iv. 1911 > i j i