193 HISTOGENESIS cells of the inner layer which are concerned with the development of the muscles of the trunk and limbs, but Balfour, Kastner, Graham Kerr, Kollman, Bardeen, and Lewis concur in stating that both lamellse may form muscular tissue. The muscles of the eyes, jaw, hyoid apparatus, and some others of the head and neck are developed from cells in the parietes of the so-called head cavities, which represent in the cephalic region the muscle-plates of the trunk. When the muscular fibres are about to be formed the cells {myoblasts) become elongated, and their nuclei multiplied, so that each cell is converted into a long multi-nucleated protoplasmic fibre. At first the substance of the fibre is not striated but is granular in appearance. The granules seem to be of the nature of mitochondria,^ which presently arrange themselves in longitudinal strise O O along one side (second month) (fig. 293, a), and about the same time a delicate mem- brane may be discovered bounding the fibre. The longitudinal striation, which is the first indication of the proper muscular substance, extends along the whole length of the fibre, but at first, as just intimated, afiects only a small part of its breadth, the rest being formed by a highly glyco- genic protoplasm containing nuclei. In due time, however, this conversion into the proper muscular substance, further shown by the appearance of cross-strise (fig. 293, B and c), extends round the greater part of the circumference of the fibre, and finally, about the sixth month, involves its whole thickness, except along the axis, which for some time remains occupied by undifferentiated protoplasm with nuclei im- bedded in it. Eventually the nuclei take up their permanent position either between the fibrils or underneath the sarcolemma. Schwann considered each fibre to be formed by the linear coalescence of several cells ; Kolliker, Wilson Fox, and most others have maintained the contrary view, origi- nally promulgated by Eemak, that the fibres are produced as above described by the elongation of single cells, with differen- tiation of their contents and multiplication of their nuclei. f- ■Tt Fig. 293.—Developing muscular fibre. Highly magnified. A, elongated cell with two nuclei and a striation beginning down one side of the cell (from foetal sheep, Wilson Fox). B, from foetus of two months; jt;, granu- lar protoplasm ; g, glycogenous substance; n, nucleus; s, commencing sarcolemma, with striated muscular substance developing immediately beneath it. C, from foetus of three months, displayed so as to show the contractile substance col- lected at one side of the fibre, and partially enclosing the unaltered substance of the fibre, <7; /, fibrils. B and C from Ranvier. Growth. The muscular fibres, after having acquired their characteristic form and struc- ture, continue to increase in size till the time of birth, and thenceforward up to adult age. In a full-grown foetus most of them measure twice, and some of them three or four times, their size at the middle of foetal life; and in the adult they are about five times as large as at birth. This increase in bulk of the individual fibres would, in a measure, account for tlTe enlargement of the entire muscles. It is uncertain how far there may be a multiplication or new formation of mu.scular fibres during the growth of a muscle, but it is probable that, during growth at least, ^ F. Meves, Anat. Anz. xxxiv. 1909 ; J. Duesberg, iltid. (Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesellch. 1909). VOL. II. PART I. ^