FERTILISATION OF OVUM 53 tlie head grows larger and exhibits the usual nuclear network. It is now known as the sperm-nucleus or male pronucleus. The centrosoine which was con- tained in the middle piece of the spermatozoon be- comes free within the protoplasm of the ovum.* It there divides and forms a division - spindle, whilst fine lines radiate from the poles of the spindle (centro- somes) into the surrounding protoplasm. There are now two half-nuclei in the ovum, the germ-nucleus and sperm-nucleus, or the female and male pronuclei, one derived from the nu- cleus of the ovum and the other from the head of the spermatozoon.'^ These (fig. 90) approach one an- ' other, the chromatin of each separates up into chromosomes, the outlines of the two nuclei blend and the chromosomes are inter- mingled, so that the result- ing nucleus has now the number of chromosomes normal to the somatic cells ^ No centrosome can be detected in the ovum after the formation of the germ-nucleus; and this is probably why the ovum does not divide again until a new centrosome is brought to it in the ^Drocess of fertilisation. The centrosome of the spermato- zoon is probably the essential element in initiating fertilisation (Boveri), and appears to be the parent of the centrosomes of all the cells which result from division of the fertilised ovum. In parthenogenetic ova the centrosome of the ovum does not disappear, but remains to initiate cell-division. Nor does the reduc- tion-division above mentioned occur. For a review of the literature up to 1902, see T. H. Bryce, Quart. Journ. Micr. Soc. xlvi. ^ This remarkable fact was discovered by O. Hertwig in 1875, Morph. Jahrb. Bd. i. Details regarding the processes of ma- turation and fertilisation were subsequently added by the work Fig. 90.—Maturation, fertilisation, and first division of OVUM of Ascaris megalocephala (bivalens) (slightly modi- fied from E. B. Wilson after Boveri). A, second polar globule just formed ; the head of the sperma- tozoon is becoming changed into a reticular nucleus ( ^), which, however, shows distinctly two chromosomes; just above it, its archoplasm is shown: the egg-nucleus (^ ) also shows two chromosomes. B, both pronuclei are now reticular and enlarged; a double centrosome (a) is visible in the archoplasm which lies between them. C, the chromatin in each pronucleus is now converted into two filamentous chromosomes; the centrosomes are separating from one another. D, the chromosomes are more distinct and shortened; the nuclear membranes have disappeared; the attraction-spheres are distinct. E, mingling and splitting of the four chromosomes (c); the achromatic spindle is fully formed. F, separation (towards the poles of the spindle) of the halves of the split chromosomes, and commencing division of the cytoplasm. Each of the daughter-cells now has four chromo- somes ; two of these have been derived from the ovum nucleus, two from the spermatozoon nucleus. of E. Van Beneden, Boveri, and others, chiefly upon the threadworm known as Ascaris megalocephala; in one variety of which (bivalens) there are four chromosomes, in another (monovalens) only two, so that’the following out of their changes in the various stages of cell-division is relatively easy.