TESTICLE 615 The dorsal portion of the ejaculatory duct is provided with irregular large diverticula, some live in all. Its mucous membrane is beset with simple and branched gland-like invaginations lined with Ion" columnar epithelium-cells with other cells at their base—thickened in some parts so as to be several cells thick—similar to that found in the ampullae, and beset with yellowish pi"ment-granules. The uppermost part of the ejaculatory duct is dilated into a sinus ; this i^ the only part of the main duct with muscular tissue in its walls, but the large diverticula have a distinct muscular layer (Felix). The tube of the epididymis, some 6 to 8 metres long and about 0*4 mm. in diameter, has a comparatively thin wall (fig. 895) composed of a basement-membrane, a circular muscular layer, and a connective-tissue adventitia, and is lined by very long columnar cells which show a marked canalisation of their protoplasm (tropho- spongium, fig. 896). Each cell has a bunch of what appear to be cilia, but the fila- ments are matted together and are not vibratile. The bunch of filaments is Fig. 893.—Section across the commencement OP THE VAS DEFEBENS. (Kleiu.) a, epithelium ; h, mucous membrane ; c, d, e, inner, middle, and outer layers of the muscular coat; f, bundles of the internal cremaster muscles; g, section of a blood-vessel. vas deferens diverticulum adventitia mucosa muscularis adventitia diverticula ampulla orifice of semi- nal vesicle Fig. 894.—Left seminal vesicle with the CORBESPONDING VAS DEFEBENS AND ITS AMPULLA. (Eberth.) Frontal section. The interior looked at from behind. prolonged into the cell protoplasm as far as the nucleus. They appear to be concerned with the extrusion of secretion from the cells. A double centrosome is always found at the side of the bunch, near the free surface of the cell. There is a second layer of smaller cubical or rounded, sometimes conical, cells next to the basement-membrane. The epithelium of the tube of the epididymis has true cilia near its upper end. A similar epithelium is found in the coni vasculosi. Between the ciliated cells are others which are non-ciliated (fig. 60, p. 32), and, from the free ends of these, drops of secretion may in many instances be seen projecting ; similar drops may be observed free within the lumen of the tube (fig. 897). The ciliated cells disappear gradually as the ducts are traced backwards to the rete, at least in man; the epithelium near the rete is beset with irregular thickenings with depressions between them simulating glands. The tubules of the rete testis.