DIVISION OF OENERATIVE CELLS 51 Division of the g*enerative cells.—In most instances of cell-division the two daughter-cells are exactly equal in size. But an exception to this rule occurs in the ovarian ovum or oocyte. This contains a large, well-marked nucleus and nucleolus, known respectively as the germinal vesicle and germinal spot. Just before or immediately after its extrusion from the ovary the ovum undergoes karyo- kinetic division twice in rapid succession, and in both instances, although the two daughter-nuclei are of equal size, the resulting cells are very unequal so much so in fact that the smaller daughter-cells were for a long time not recognised as cells at all and received the name of polar globules or directive corpuscles, because they were supposed to indicate the plane of first division of the ovum after fertilisation. It is now known, however, that the mitoses which occur in these two divisions are different from those which are seen in ordinary or somatic cells. The first of the two was termed by Flemming * heterotypical mitosis (fig. 85,1.). This form of mitosis Fig. 86.—Heterotypical division of spermato- cyte OF batrachoceps, in stage of METAKINESIS. (Eiseil.) Each chromosome is attached to one of the is preceded by a prophase which con- sists of a longitudinal fusion of the chromosomes into double filaments {synapsis), so that each apparent Fig. 87.—Heterotypical division of sperma- tocyte OF Salamandra, showing commence- ment OF formation of daughter-nuclei. The chromosomes show the secondary longitudinal splitting described in the coarser threads of the division-spindle. TEXT. (F. Meves.) chromosome represents really two {gemini). Presently these begin to separate again about the middle, the ends remaining connected, and they thus form elongated rings, sometimes twisted, and by a shortening of the constituent chromosomes often becoming more or less circular. Ultimately each ring breaks across and the resulting chromosomes pass towards the poles to form daughter-nuclei. As they do so they split longitudinally, so that these daughter-nuclei now have the full number of chromosomes. The formation of the second polar globule is brought about by a subsequent mitosis, which was termed by Flemming homotypical (fig. 85, II.). This division occurs at once without the daughter-nucleus which is left in the ovum re-assuming the resting, reticular condition. In it there is an absence of the usual longitudinal splitting of the chromosomes, the daughter-nuclei being in this case formed by the bodily transference along the division-spindle of one-half of the total number of chromosomes of the mother-nucleus towards each pole of ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxix. 1887. E 2