GERM-CELLS 54 of the species (as distinguished from the germ- and sperm-cells, which have only half that number), one half the total number having been derived from the female and the other half from the male parent. This resulting nucleus divides by ordinary karyokinesis (fig. 90, e, f) ; the chromosomes split; half of each passes into each daughter-nucleus, and thus each daughter-nucleus in the first and, it may be added, in every subsequent division, receives an equal portion of the chromatic material which was derived from each parent. The division of the nucleus is accompanied by changes in the division-spindle exactly similar to those which occur in the division of any other cell. Details of the synaptic chang-es of the g:erm-cells and their reduction-divisions.— In the division of cells to form the oocytes within the ovary and in the division of the sperma- tocytes within the testicle, a series of changes occurs in the nucleus prior to its commencing karyokinesis, but these do not immediately lead to its division, although they are preparatory to that process. The changes are essentially the same for both sexual cells and the description in the one will apply mutatis mutandis to the other (figs. 91, 92). The chromatin of the cell whose repeated division is to produce the matured sexual cell is granular: after the first division the nuclei of the daughter-cells develop chromatin filaments Fig. 91.—Prophase akd anaphase in spermatocyte of Myxine. (Schreiner.) a, b, synaptic prophase; c, d, germinal chromosomes; e, tetrad formation; /, equatorial arrangement of chromosomes (metakinesis). which eventually form a network. This network gives place to a tangle of chromatin threads (figs. 91, 92), which become aggregated at one place. This has been termed the synaptic phase. The threads, which are connected at one end with small masses of chromatin {chronioplasts)^ from which they appear to grow out, next show a tendency to assume a parallel position, lying side by side, two and two, and the pairs of chromatin threads adhere closely together, forming thicker threads of half the original number. The thicker threads thus formed presently lose their tangled arrangement and are disseminated through the nucleus. The threads show a longitudinal separation indicative of their double nature, and are termed diads. These subsequently shorten into small masses of chromatin, the duplicate nature of which is often obscure at this stage. This phase is followed by a marked growth of the cell, which