86 EPITHELIUM sometimes extended sideways into flattened lamellae (fig. 136, a), which fit between the adjacent cells of the epithelium. Columnar epithelium-cells are described by some authors as being always joined together laterally by small protoplasmic offsets, which bridge across the intercellular spaces.' It may be doubted, however, whether the appearance which has been described is to be thus interpreted, for the cells after maceration in one-third alcohol or dilute bichromate solutions, readily fall apart from one another and are thus easily isolated. Leucocytes also readily push their way between them and sometimes separate the columnar cells from one another to a considerable extent (fig. 135). In the intestine of Proteus anguineus Holmgren describes membrane-like projections from the basement-membrane projecting between the columnar epithelium-cells, and serving to separate them from one another." The nucleus may cause a bulging in the part of the cell in which it is situated, and the nuclei of adjacent cells are on this account often seated in different planes. The cell may contain fatty globules and other kinds of granules (figs. 137, 138). In typical columnar epithelium-cells, such as those lining the mucous membrane of the small intestine, the free border differs from the rest of the cell in being more INTESTINAL EPITHELIUM OF FROG. (Altmann.) Fig. 138.—Granules in fat-absorbing cells of frog’s intestine beginning to be trans- formed INTO FAT-PARTICLES. (Krehl.) The fat-droplets are stained black with osmic acid. refracting and finely striated. This striated border of the cell (figs. 135 and 136, sir) after fixation by reagents may be detached from the rest of the cell, and since the striated free borders of adjacent cells often adhere together, a continuous membrane may thus be obtained, marked by a mosaic of fine lines of cement-substance indicat- ing the division between the cells from which this ‘ cuticula " has become detached. The cuticula serves to close the intercellular channels so that they present no opening on the free surface. The striae in the cuticula appear to be caused by the existence of septa extending between fine prolongations of the cell-hyaloplasm. The striated cuticula is not immediately in contact with the ordinary protoplasm of the cell, but is separated from it by a thin disc composed of a substance which refracts the light even more than the striated border. This disc (shown in fig. 136) corresponds in situation to the bright border or beaded layer of the ciliated epithe- lium-cells (see below) ; and it may be that the striated border is the morphological equivalent of the bunch of cilia upon those cells. The surface of the cytoplasm 1 Ogneff, Biol. Centralbl. 1892; Curlier, La Cellule, xi. 1895; S. Garten, Arch. f. Physiol. 1895 * Schaeppi, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixix. 1907. - Arch. f. niikr. Anat. Ixv. 1904. See also Lunclahl, Anat. Hefte, xxxvii. 1908.