212 NEKVE-CELLS Plate): they are known as the Nissl bodies ^ and consist chemically of nucleoproteid containing organically combined iron.‘^ The Nissl bodies may be scattered uni- formly in the protoplasm or they may lie in two zones; one near the nucleus, the other near the circumference of the cell-body, leaving the intermediate part clear. If the centrosome is well marked the granules may be arranged con- centrically to it. They extend into the dendrons, but do not occur in the axon or its cone of origin, and in some ganglion-cells there is a thin peripheral layer of the cell-body free from them.'^ They are found to vary with the functional con- dition of the nerve-cell and of its nucleus, which has been observed to exhibit amoeboid projections abutting upon a small mass of Nissl granules or to have rows of chromatin-granules streaming out from it towards the centrosome (fig. 324). In fatigued cells (fig. 325) the granules break up and gradually disappear ; ^ whilst the cell- body correspondingly diminishes in size and the nucleus shrinks in bulk,^' showing, how- ever, a relative increase in the amount of chromatin.^ The term chromatolysis (Marinesco) or Nissl degeneration is applied to these changes in the Nissl bodies.® Similar changes occur if the axon of a nerve-cell is cut,® whether near to or at a point far distant from the cell-body (axon- reaction) (see Plate, fig. c) ; the change begins 24 to 48 hours after the section and is completed in about 15 to 24 days. This fact is made use of to determine from which cells or groups of cells particular nerve- fibres originate.'® Various poisons which affect the nervous system are also found to have marked effects in causing chromatolysis either in the nerve-cells generally or in those of special parts. This applies also to the poisons (toxines) which are pro- duced in disease. With removal of the cause of degeneration a process of reparation may begin. If the degeneration has been caused by section of the axon the repara- tive process is very slow, so that it may be three or four months before it is com- pleted. At the end of this time the nerve-cell bodies have resumed their original appearance even though reparation of the cut nerve may be incomplete. But in some instances regeneration of the cell-bodies does not take place ; this seems to be the case with the cells of the vagus ganglion on cutting the peripheral nerve," Fig. 325.—Two motob nebve-cells pbom THE DOG. a, normal; &, after a period of prolonged activity. (Photographed from preparations by Dr, Gustav Mann.) 1 Nissl, Naturforscherversamml, z. Strassburg, 1884. 2 A. B. Macallum, Journ. Physiol, xxxii. 1905. 5 V. Lenhossek, Arch. f. Psych, xxix. 1897 ; G. Mann, Verh. d. Anat. Gesellsch. 1898, p. 39. 4 E. Holmgren, Anat. Hefte, xii. 1899 ; xv. 1900. “ But with activity which is not excessive the chromatin may at first increase in amount (Dollay Amer. Journ. Physiol, xxv. 1909). “ Hodge, Journ. Morph, vii. 1892. ^ G. Mann, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxix. 1894, See also F. H. Scott, Journ. Physiol. 1906. ** For the literature on this subject, see article on the Nerve-cell in Schiifer’s Text-book of Physiology; also L. L. Barker’s Nervous System. This statement does not apply to the centripetal axons of the cells of the spinal ganglia (Lugaro, Riv. d. patol. nerv. vol. i. 1896; Kiister, Neurol. Centralbl. xxii. 1903); nor does section of these axons interfere with the development of the spinal ganglion-cells in the young animal, although section of their peripheral axons has a marked effect (H. K. Anderson, Journ. Phys. vol. xxviii. 1902). See especially Van Gehuchten, Anatomic du systeme nerveux, 1907. Van Gehuchten and Nelis, La Cellule, 1897.