INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS 692 conditions of a single kind of cell, since intermediate appearances are also observed ; the relative amount of the two kinds varies in different specimens. ‘ The one kind of cell has a clear or only very finely granular protoplasm, whereas the protoplasm of the other kind is full of distinct granules, staining with basic dyes and giving a dark appearance in stained sections to this part of the gland. Cells with oxyphil (eosinophil) granules also occur in the pars anterior. Some observers have described a vesicular arrangement of the epithelium-cells, enclosing ‘ colloid ’ substance as in the thyroid ; but although such an appearance is common in the pars intermedia, it does not, according to Herring, occur in the pars anterior. . The appearances of the pars anterior are strongly suggestive of a gland that is adapted to discharge the secretion of its cells directly into the blood. Fig. 998.—Section of pabs antebiok of pituitaky (ox). (Dostoiewsky.) hi, blood-sinuses; c, strands of clear cells; d, strands of cells containing dark granules. Other strands contain both kinds of cell. Pars intermedia.—In the pars intermedia the cells are smaller and less distinctly granular—at least the granules are finer—and blood-vessels are far fewer. The cells are massed against the posterior boundary of the intra- glandular cleft (fig. 997); the layer next to the cleft is arranged somewhat like a columnar epithelium. The opposite or anterior wall of the cleft is bounded by flattened cells. The most characteristic feature in the structure of the pars inter- media is the presence of globules of a hyaline material (fig. 999), to which the designa- tion of ‘ colloid ’ has been given, although it is not of the same chemical nature as the colloid found within the vesicles of the thyroid. This ‘ colloid ’ or ‘ hyaline ’ substance appears to be produced by a transformation of the protoplasm of some of the cells of the pars intermedia, for the globules not infrequently contain a nucleus. They vary in size, some being smaller than the epithelium-cells, others many times larger; they are most numerous in the part of the pars intermedia ^ According to Scaffidi, there are certainly two specifically different types of cell (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiv. 1904). Gemelli (Arch. p. 1. sci. med. xxx. 190C) describes three kinds of cell in the pars anterior, viz. oxyphil, basiphil, and others intermediate in character. Erdheim and Stumnie (Ziegler’s Beitr. xlvi. 1909) also describe three types of cell, one clear and two granular (oxyphil and basiphil). The clear cells are said to become hypertrophied during pregnancy