FIBROUS TISSUE 111 Fig. 179.—Pakt of a moderately large tendon in transverse section. (Schafer.) a, areolar sheath of the tendon, with the fibres for the most part running transversely, but with two or three longitudinal bundles, b ; I, lymphatic cleft in the sheath; immediately over it a blood-vessel is seen cut across and on the other side of the figure a small artery is shown cut longitudinally; c, large septum of areolar tissue; d, smaller septum; e, still smaller septum. The irregularly stellate bodies are the tendon-cells in section. take various directions and decussate irregularly with each other as in the dura mater. And when they run parallel with each other, as in tendon, they do not keep separate throughout their length, but send off slips to join neighbouring bundles and receive the like in turn ; so that successive cross-sections of a tendon or ligament present different figures of the sectional areas of the bundles. A sheath of dense areolar tissue covers the tendons and ligaments on the outside (fig. 179, a), and a variable amount of the same tissue (d, e) lies between the fasciculi into which the smaller bundles are grouped, separating them from one another, and also occurring, in greater amount, between the largest fasciculi (c). It is in these areolar tissue septa that the blood-vessels and lymphatics of a tendon or ligament run. The surface of a tendon or of any other part consisting of this texture, appears marked across the direction of the fasciculi with alternate light and dark streaks which give it a peculiar aspect, not unlike that of a watered ribbon. This appearance is owing to the wavy course of the filaments, for when the light falls on them their bendings naturally give rise to alternate lights and shadows. The fibrous and areolar tissues thus agreeing in their ultimate structure, it is not to be wondered at that sometimes the limits between the two should be ill- defined, and that the one should pass by inconspicuous gradations into the other. Instances of such a transition may be seen in many of the fasciae : these at certain parts consist of dense areolar tissue, but on being traced farther are seen gradually Fig. 180.—Tendon op mouse’s tail, stained with logwood ; SHOWING CHAINS OF CELLS BETWEEN THE TENDON-BUNDLES. (Schiifer.) Magnified 175 diameters.