UTEKUS 664 in length,^ and from two to five times in breadth (Kolliker) (fig. 958). A formation of new cells is also said to occur, mainly in the innermost layers (but whether by proliferation of pre-existing cells or otherwise is not stated), and to continue until the sixth month of pregnancy, when it ceases. The round ligaments become enlarged, and their muscular structure more marked ; the broad ligaments are encroached upon by the intrusion of the growing uterus between their layers. The mucous membrane and the glands of the body of the uterus at first undergo an enlargement very similar to that which precedes menstruation; they subsequently become the seat of peculiar changes, more particularly described under Develop- ment (Vol. I.). The blood-vessels and lymphatics are greatly enlarged, and the arteries become very tortuous as they ramify upon the organ. The nerves also undergo considerable increase in size. Fig. 959.—Section of uterine mucous membrane from a woman of sixty. (Selllieim.) After parturition the uterus gradually but rapidly diminishes till it nearly regains the size and structure of the unimpregnated organ. During this change the enlarged muscular fibres undergo fatty degeneration, and are said to be subse- quently absorbed, while a new set of fibre-cells is developed. After the first preg- nancy, however, the organ never regains its original virginal character. After the menopause the uterus undergoes a gradual process of atrophy (tig. 959). The mucous membrane becomes more fibrous and thinner, the glands diminish in size and tend to become obliterated and the muscular coat becomes shrunken and thinner. Sometimes there is a cystic enlargement of some of the glands. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries which supply the uterus are the right and left ovarian (corresponding to the spermatic of the male) and the uterine. They are remarkable for their frequent anastomoses, and for their singularly tortuous course. After passing a short distance into the thickness of the ^ The increase is from 40 yu. — GO jx in the virgin uterus up to 300 fx — COO jx at the end of gestation (W. NagelJ. Cf C. S. Minot, Human Embryology, 1S9‘2.