97 'PRANSITIONAL EPITHELIUM epitlieliiiin of the anal canal tlie change is less abrupt, the number of layers of the stratified epithelium being gradually reduced until only the deepest remains. Stratified epithelium plays an important part in connexion with the formation in the embryo of certain folds of skin and mucous membrane, as well as of tubular openings on to the surface.' Such folds are frequently preceded by a hypertrophy of the epithelium, which grows down into the corium in the form of a solid ridge. This subsequently splits along the middle by a dehiscence of its central cells, and one part adheres to each of the layers of corium which now bound the depression. This is the manner in which the prepuce is formed in both sexes. Similarly the vagina is developed as a solid cord of epithelium which assumes a stratified character, and by Fig. 160.—Section of mucous membrane of bladder of dog, fixed in the empty CONDITION OF THE ORGAN. (R. W. Hai’vey.) a, b, c, successive layers of the epithelium. dehiscence of its central cells the solid cord is converted into a tube. A similar mode of formation is also said to occur in the male urethra, at least in its distal portion. In the development of the eyelids, the slit is temporarily closed by the growing together of the stratified epithelium at the edges of the lids, and it is only a little before birth that a splitting occurs in the epithelial connexion and the lids open. A familiar instance of this process of the downgrowth of stratified Fig. 161.—Section of mucous membrane of bladder of dog, fixed in the distended CONDITION OF THE ORGAN. (R. W. Harvey.) epithelium into a connective-tissue corium, with dehiscence and consequent hollowing out of the centre of the growth, also occurs in connexion with the development of the hairs and cutaneous glands. Transitional epithelium lines the urinary bladder and ureters. This epithelium consists of three or four layers of cells (hgs. 160, 161, 162), of which the inner or most superficial are large fiattened scales when examined from the Berry Hart, Journ. Anat. and Pliysiol. xlii. 1908. VOL. IT. PART I. H