()06 UKINAEY BLADDER near the epithelium and circular fibres outside these, with a few longitudinal bundles in the adventitia : in the middle part of the ureter the circular fibres are most developed ; the longi- tudinal bundles inside these are, however, still well marked, but those outside are scattered ; in the lower or pelvic part the whole wall becomes more muscular, and circularly and obliquely disposed bundles are intermixed with the bundles of the longitudinal layers, and extend almost to the epithelium. Quite near the lower end, close to its passage into the wall of the bladder, the ureter is ensheathed by a mass of longitudinal muscular tissue which appears to be continued from the bladder wall, but is in reality a development of the outer longitudinal muscular layer of the ureter itself. It is termed the ureter-sheath (Waldeyer). As it passes obliquely through the bladder wall the ureter retains its independence, traversing a sort of canal in the vesica] wall. At the end of this canal, i.e. at the vesical orifice of the ureter, its mucous membrane and epithelium are continuous with those of the bladder : at the upper edge of the orifice the mucous membrane projects somewhat beyond that which forms the lower edge, in the form of a valve-like fold—the valve of the ureter. Within the ureter-sheath the rest of the muscular tissue of the ureter is wholly in the form of longitudinal bundles which occupy almost the whole thick- ness of its coats. They are separated from the bladder musculature by a layer of connective tissue, and are easily distinguishable from the muscle-bundles of the bladder : they ultimately end in the mucous membrane of the bladder around the orifice of the ureter. The muscular bundles of the ureter-sheath are somewhat coarser than those of the rest of this part of the ureter. They are separated from the other muscular tissue by a cleft in the connective tissue ; there is another cleft outside them separating them from the adventitia. Blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves.—The ureter is supplied with arteries from small branches of the renal, the spermatic, the internal iliac, and the inferior vesical. The veins end in various neighbouring vessels. The larger vessels ramify in the adventitia and send branches through the muscularis into the corium of the mucous membrane. From these branches capillaries pass into the muscular bundles and others form a plexus in the mucous membrane under the epithelium. Lymphatics are found forming a network in the mucous membrane and communicating with other vessels in the muscular coat and adventitia. The nerves come from the renal, spermatic, and hypogastric plexuses. They form plexuses in the adventitia and muscular coats containing small ganglia and scattered ganglion- cells. The nerves are chiefly for the supply of the muscular fibres, but afierent fibres have also been traced into the mucous membrane and epithelium, where they form terminal arborisations. URINARY BLADDER. Structure.—'The bladder is composed of an adventitia, a muscular coat, a submucous coat, and a mucous membrane. There is also a serous coat which forms a partial covering, investing only the posterior and upper half of the bladder, and reflected from it upon the surrounding parts. The adventitia is composed of fibrous tissue continuous with that between the muscular bundles ; over the greater part of the bladder it is but little developed. The muscular coat consists of unstriped muscular fibres, which are often described as forming layers, the outer consisting of bundles of fibres more or less longi- tudinal, and the next of fibres more circular in disposition ; beneath this, in the submucous coat, is another imperfect longitudinal stratum. The longitudinal layer is most distinctly marked on the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the bladder. Commencing in front (at the neck of the organ) from the pubes in both sexes (musculi pubo-vesicales), and, in the male, from the adjoining part of the prostate gland, its fibres may be traced upwards along the anterior surface to the summit of the bladder ; and thence may be followed down over the posterior surface and base to the under part of the neck of the viscus, where they become attached to the prostate in the male, and to the front of the vagina in the female. Upon the sides the superficial fasciculi run more or less