117 DEVELOriNIENT OF CONNECTIVE-TISSUE FIBRES Waldeyer,' Flemniiug,’* and many others,’’ the fibres are formed within the protoplasm of the cells, the bundles of white fibrils either being produced by a direct conversion of the protoplasm of some of the cells, the others remaining t • . ■ ' ■ i, . -■Q dvn - (3 '.'S .. Fig. 191.—Cells of developing connective tissue (mesen- chyme) UNITED TO FORM A SYNCYTIUM. (Fi’om Prenant, Bouiu, and Maillard.) No fibres are as yet developed in the intercellular substance. as the permanent connective-tissue corpuscles ; or the permanent corpuscles represent embryonic cells, layers of whose protoplasm have been successively converted directly into fibrillar tissue, the cells, meanwhile, after each such conversion, growing again to their original size, and at length remaining in contact with the bundle of fibres which they have assisted to form. Similarly the elastic fibres are supposed to be formed either by a transformation at the surface of the cells or by conversion of the cell-processes into elastic filaments, which become connected with those of neighbouring cells, and produce networks of elastic fibres.'* According to another view, which has been adopted in successive editions of this work and is advocated by Kolliker,^ Ranvier,^ and Merkel,^ the fibres, both white and elastic, are formed by a deposit in the intercellular substance, which is shed out or secreted by the cells of the tissue, and not by a direct change of the protoplasm of the cells, with which indeed they are not connected; although it is not excluded that the deposition may be influenced, or even caused by the cells.® A view, which may be regarded as intermediate between those above mentioned, is held by F. Mall,® who is of opinion that the material in which the cell-syncytium is imbedded, that Fig. 192,—Connective-tissue cells OF SALAMANDER LARVA, SHOWING FIBRILLATED STRUCTURE OF PROTO- PLASM. (Flemming.) Two of the cell-nuclei are dividing. ^ Sitzungsb. d. Pr. Akad. 1895. ^ Virchow Festschrift, 1891; Arch. f. Anat. 1897. ^ See especially, Klinke, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xliii. 1894; Spuler, Anat. Hefte, vii. 1897 ; F. Meves, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxv. 1910. J. F. Gemmill, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xl. 1906. ^ Gewebelehre, 1889, “ Traitc technique d’histologie, 1889. " Anat. Hefte, xxxviii. 1909. Cf. further on this question Hansen, Anat. Anz. xvi. 1899; Waldeyer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1901; Laguesse, Arch, d’anat, micr. vi. 1903 ; Golowinski, Anat. Hefte, xxxiii. 1907. ^ Amer. Journ. Anat. i. 1901-2.