636 MALE UEETHRA one at eacli side. This median opening leads into the prostatic utricle (prostatic vesicle, uterus masculinus). The utricle is a cul-de-sac running upwards and backwards, for a distance of from 6 to 12 mm. Its orifice forms a longitudinal cleft about 2 or 3 mm. in length, but the utricle increases somewhat in diameter towards its farther end or fundus. The narrow portion runs in the urethral crest; its fundus lies behind and beneath the middle lobe, and in some cases reaches to the posterior surface of the prostate gland. Its parietes, which are distinct and of some thickness, are com- posed of fibrous tissue and mucous membrane, together with a few muscular fibres. They enclose on each side the ejaculatory duct. Numerous small ramified and convoluted glands open on the inner surface of the utricle. The epithelium is columnar and by some authors is stated to be ciliated. Small glands open into its cavity near the entrance into the urethra. The colliculus contains well- marked erectile and plain muscular tissue. It has been supposed that this eminence, when distended with blood, may offer an obstacle to the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder.' c Fig. 926.— Section of the mucous membrane of the urethra, proximal to the orifices OF Cowper’s glands. (Lichtenberg.) Magnified 200 diameters. G, corium of mucous membrane,’•with numerous blood-vessels ; Z>, epithelium; c, d, crypt-like invaginations of the epithelium. The cells of these crypts are shorter than those of the general surface ; they secrete mucin. The membranous portion of the urethra comprises the part between the apex of the prostate and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is 18 mm. long ; but about two-thirds of its posterior surface is covered by the bulb of the corpus cavernosum, which projects backwards over it. This membranous portion is the narrowest part of the urethra. It lies between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and both these fibrous membranes are prolonged upon it, the one back- wards and the other forwards. Between these layers the urethra is surrounded by erectile tissue, by some veins, and also by plain muscular tissue, and by the fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle. On each side are Cowper’s glands. The plain muscular fibres of this portion of the urethra are continued over the outer and inner surfaces of the prostate into the muscular fibres of the bladder posteriorly, and into those of the spongy portion of the urethra anteriorly (Hancock). The spongy portion of the urethra, by far the longest and most variable in length and direction, includes the remainder of the canal, the part surrounded by the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Its length is about 15 cm. ^ But cf. G. Walker, Arch. f. Anat. 1899.