CELL-DIVISION 56 divides to form the first polar body, each tetrad separates (longitudinally, if the group is linear) into two diads ; and of these one remains in the ovum and the other passes into the polar body, or, in the case of the spermatocyte, one passes into each daughter-nucleus; each resulting cell therefore contains the normal number of chromosomes peculiar to the somatic cells of the species. At the second (or reduction) division, which immediately follows the first without a resting period, each diad is halved, and of the chromosomes resulting from its division one remains in the ovum and the other passes into the second polar body, or, in the case of the spermatocytes, one passes into each spermatid, so that the ovum or spermatid, as the case may be, is left with one-fourth of each original tetrad and with a number of chromosomes which is exactly one-half the number found in the somatic cells of the species. Object of the karyoklnetic cbang^es In the dividing- cell.—Since in the process of splitting each chromosome divides into two perfectly similar portions, and this is effected by the splitting of its individual chromatin particles, it is clear that we have in the karyokinetic process a mechanism for an exact quantitative division of the chromatic substance of the nucleus between the two daughter-nuclei (Roux) ; whereas in the reducing division of germ- cells (ova and spermatic cells) the distribution of chromatin may be qualitative (see below). From a consideration of these facts and of many other circumstances which it is impossible here to allude to, Weismann has concluded that the chromosomes (idants) with their con- stituent particles (ids) contain the ph5>'sical material by means of which heredity is main- tained : the chromatin particles (ids) themselves being assumed to be made up of a vast number of ultra-microscopic organised particles which are distributed variously in the daughter- cells as multiplication proceeds, and are the ‘ determinants ’ of the changes in the cells which lead to the formation of the various tissues and organs of the body. The determinants again are regarded as being themselves composed of molecules of living substance to which the name of ‘ biophores ’ is applied by Weismann. The result of the reducing division of the chromosome may be supposed to effect a separation of the (probably dissimilar) ids of each chromosome, without a splitting of the individual ids, whereas in their ordinary division the resulting daughter-chromosomes are probably of exactly similar nature, since each of the ids of which the chromosomes or idants are formed has sjrlit, and takes part in the formation of each daughter-chromosome. The importance which this difference of behaviour of the ids in the reducing division may have in producing variation is insisted on by Weismann ‘ and others. The reduction-division also occurs in plants, and in them it may show itself long before the ova and spermatozoids appear. Thus in the ferns all the cells of the prothaUium have the reduced number of chromosomes (Strasburger), in Hepaticse those of the sporogonium (Farmer), and in Gymnosperms those of the endosperm (Overton, Dixon). In flowering plants the reduced number is found in the pollen grains and in the cells of the embryo-sac respectively (Guignard). A modified tetrad formation may also be observed—e.g. in the first division of the mother pollen- cells. Strasburger has enunciated the interesting hypothesis that the reduced number of chromo- somes is the number belonging to an ancestral type, and that the somatic number arose subsequently by conjugation of two cells. The cells which have the reduced number (germ- and sperm-cells) show therefore a return to the ancestral type, and the purpose of this reduction is to allow the mixing of chromosomes of two individuals, such as occurs in conjugation of unicellular organisms {amphimixis of Weismann), and as a result to assist in producing variation. The complexity of the problem relating to the chromosomes in the germ- and sperm-cells is increased by the recent observation, which has been made in certain insects (Hemiptera and Orthoptera), that in the division of the spermatogonia to produce spermatocytes one of the daughter-cells receives an extra chromosome {heterochromosome), usually rather smaller than the others, so that two morphologically distinct kinds of spermatozoa are produced in equal numbers. Sometimes instead of an extra chromosome one of the ordinai-y chromosomes is larger than the rest. Even the ordinary reduction-division, however, may produce a difference of quality in the resulting spermatozoa ; and the fact that there is such a qualitative difference in the spermatozoa in particular cases seems to indicate, as McCluug has pointed out, that the chromatin in the two kinds of spermatozoa represents the physical basis for the transmission of sexual characteristics.'-^ 1 Keimplasma, Jena, 1892. English translation by E. B. Poulton. Weismann’s views are dis- cussed by Bryce in the volume of this work which deals with Embryology. On the significance of the reduction-division, see also Henking, Zeit. f. wiss. Zool. liv. 1892. For a criticism of the chromosome hypothesis, see R. Fick, Arch. f. Anat. Suppl. 1905. ^ See on the accessory chromosome, Henking, Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. xlix. 1890, and li. 1891; Wallace, Anat. Anz. xviii. 1900 ; W. S. Sutton, Bull. Univ. Kansas ix. 1900, and Biol. Bull. iv. 1902 ; de Sinety, La Cellule, 1901; McClung, Biol. Bull. iii. 1902 ; Stevens, Publ. of Carnegie Instit. of Washington, No. 86, 1905 ; E. B. Wilson, Science, xxii. 1905 ; Journ. Exper. Zool. ii., iii. and vi. 1905,1906, 1909; Montgomery,