462 THE SKIN of this eponychium continue throughout life partly covering the lunula. At the anterior edge of the developing nail, the eponychium or epitrichial layer is greatly thickened (figs. 673, 674); below this epitrichial thickening is a well-marked stratum lucidum and stratum granulosum, continuous with the corresponding layers of the adjacent epidermis. At birth the free end of the nail is thin, being manifestly the earlier formed part, which has been pushed forward. As the infantile nail Fig. 673.—Longitudinal section of the tebminal phalanx op the thibd fingek of an EMBBYO OF THE THIBD MONTH. (After Bowen.) ep., epitrichial layer, greatly thickened at the nail-edge ep.', and forming the eponychium e/J." above the nail formation, n.; r.m., rete mucosum. continues to grow, its flattened cells, at first easily separable, become harder and more coherent, as in after-life. The average rate of growth of the nails is half a millimetre a week (W. Krause), but varies, being faster on the fingers than on the toes and faster in summer than in winter. According to Bloch ^ the rate varies at different ages. The growth is effected by a constant generation of the cells of the rete mucosum at the root. These cells in their more superficial layers acquire brownish granules, which are not S.l. Fig. 674. —Longitudinal section op the gbeat toe of an embbyo of the fifth month. (After Bowen.) e^., epitrichial layer of epidermis at end of finger; ep.', thickening of epitrichium at the nail edge; ep.", remains of eponychium; n., nail; s.l., stratum lucidum of epidermis. identical with eleidin granules, and are termed by Ranvier onycliogenic substance {onychin, Apolant). This substance stains brown with carmine instead of red, as do the eleidin granules ; a similar brown-staining substance occurs in the fibrous substance and cuticula of the hairs. According to v. Brunn, any new onychogenic material formed after the sixth month of intra-uterine life is fibril- lated, and is not composed of granules ; its keratinisation takes place therefore ^ C. r. soc. de bioh 1908.