.STRUCTURE OF CELL 28 a passive, protective function. Abnormally, various other kinds of transformation of cell-protoplasm may occur, producing the several kinds of degeneration known under the names of amyloid, fatty, and the like. Cell-membranes.—When the discovery of the cellular composition of plants and animals was made, it was assumed that all cells consist of a cell-membrane with fluid cell-contents. This assumption was mainly based upon the fact that the cells of plants are almost universally provided with a definite enclosing envelope of cellulose (fig. 50) which has become formed by the cell-protoplasm, and which serves to separate one cell from another except in so far as they are connected by proto- Fig. 50.—A CELL OF A Tradescantia hair, a, IN NORMAL CONDITION ; B, AFTER THE PAS- SAGE OF AN ELECTRIC SHOCK. (Verwom, after Kiihne.) rt, cellulose wall; h, partition between two cells ; c, collection of the protoplasm into clumps as the result of stimulation. The large spaces contain cell-sap. plasmic fibres which pass through pores in the cellulose partitions (W. Gardiner). It was, however, shown (by Leydig, and subsequently by E. Briicke and M. Schultze) that such an envelope is not to be regarded as essential to the con- ception of an animal cell, although certain animal cells, such as ova and the cells which produce cartilage, are pro- vided with a definite membrane. This, when present, is either secreted by the cell-protoplasm and produced externally to the cell, or, as many histologists hold, formed by the direct transformation of the external layer of the protoplasm. Fig. 51.—A cell (white blood-corpuscle), SHOWING ITS ATTRACTION-SPHERE. (Wilsou, after M. Heideuhain.) In this, as in most cases, the attraction- sphere, n., lies near the nucleus, n. Nevertheless, although such definite membrane is absent from the majority of cells, it is none the less true that the most external layer or film which invests the protoplasm is physically and probably chemically different from the remainder, since all reactions show that a cell behaves to electroljrtes exactly as if its proto- plasm were enclosed by a semi-permeable solid membrane. The existence, therefore, of such a special surface film must be postulated for every protoplasmic cell, whether it be surrounded outside this by a definite envelope or not. Overton has brought together reasons for the belief that the superficial film through which osmosis occurs consists largely of the lipoids (cholesterin and lecithin) which are found along with nucleoproteid entering into the chemical composition of cell-protoplasm.