SMALL INTESTINE 540 with the branched cells of tlie reticular tissue, and on the other hand send pro- cesses between the epithelium-cells. Nerve-fibrils penetrate into the villi from the plexus of Meissner, and form arborisations throughout their whole substance (fig. 806). Each villus receives, as a rule, one small arterial twig, which runs from the submucous coat through the muscularis mucosae to the base of the villus, and then up the centre to near the middle of the villus, where it begins to break up into a number of capillaries (fig. 781). These form near the surface, beneath the epithelium and limiting membrane, a fine capillary network (fig. 782) from which the blood is returned for the most part by one or two venules, which in man commence near the tip of the villus, and pass down to its base to join the venous plexus of the mucous membrane, whence the blood is conveyed to the large veins of the sub mucosa. The general arrangement of the vascular supply of the villi varies considerably in different animals. Fig. 782.—Longitudinal section of villus of bat, KILLED DUBING ABSOBPTION OF FOOD. (Schilfer.) Numerous leucocytes are seen between tlie columnar epithelium-cells, within the reticulum of the villus and in the upper part of the lacteal, within which some of them are becoming disintegrated. Fig. 783.—Injected lacteal ves- sels IN TWO VILLI OF THE HUMAN INTESTINE. (Teichmann.) Mag- nified 100 diameters. The lacteals are represented as filled with white substance and the blood-vessels with dark, a, 6, the lacteal vessels, single in one villus and double in the other; c, the horizontal lacteal vessels with which those of the villi communicate; d, the blood-vessels, consisting of small arteries and veins with capillary net- work between. A lacteal lies in the centre of each villus (figs. 782, 783, 784, 785, 786), and is in the smaller villi usually a straight vessel, with a closed and somewhat expanded extremity, and of considerably larger diameter than the blood-capillaries of the part. According to the observations of Teichmann, there are sometimes two (never more) intercommunicating lacteals in a single villus in the human subject (fig. 783, h) ; but both he and Frey found a copious network in the villi of the sheep. Like the lymphatics elsewhere, the lacteals in the villi are bounded by a delicate layer of endothelial cells. These are connected with the branched cells of the reticular tissue of the villus, and these again with the flattened cells which help to form the basement-membrane.