SECRETING GLANDS 438 are small, and their property of imbibing the specific stains for mucin is little marked. But as they gradually increase in size this property becomes more distinct, and the part of the cell containing them becomes swollen out (fig. 649). When the secretion is to be extruded, either by a contraction of the cell- protoplasm or, more probably, by a determination of watery fluid from the blood and lymph through the cell, the granules or globules of mucin are passed out at the free surface ; here they are immediately swollen up and dissolved by the watery solution already present or simultaneously poured out, and are con- verted into an issuing plug-like drop of mucus, which in some cases may be seen protruding from the goblet-cell. When all the secretion is discharged the part of the cell which contained it looks almost empty. But it still contains a fine net- work of protoplasm; this grows so as again to fill the empty space, and within it granules of secretion again form. A similar process takes place in serous glands except that in many of these. ttV Fig. 648. — Epithelium-cells from the TRACHEA OF THE RABBIT, WITH THREE MUCUS-SECRETING CELLS AMONGST THE CILIATED COLUMNAR CELLS. (Schafer.) Highly magnified. mucus-secreting cells seen in various stages of mucin-formation. Fig. 649.—Goblet - cell of SALAMANDER LARVA, WITH ITS FINE END SWOLLEN OUT BY THE MUCIN-CONTENTS. (Gur- witsch, after Joseph.) A diplosome (double centriole) with a filament extending from each particle is seen within the mucin-containing part of the cell. as in some mucous glands, the secretion-granules are formed throughout the whole cell. But in the serous glands the granules are not so large, and the extrusion at the free surface produces less disturbance of the general form of the cell; the secretion-granules are also for the most part passed out into the lumen of the alveolus in a dissolved condition, although they are sometimes seen there in an undissolved form. In most glands it is only as the result of excitation through the nervous system, or by chemical agents (hormones) circulating in the blood, that the secretion-granules are extruded from the cell, but the process of forma- tion of fresh granules is not arrested during such extrusion; indeed, it probably goes on even more rapidly than during rest. There is in fact reason to sup- pose that behind the already formed secretion-granules in process of extrusion there always proceeds within the protoplasm a new formation of granules, which are to take the place of those that are being extruded. Thus the excitation not only effects discharge of secretion but also the production of fresh secretion- granules to take the place of those which are discharged. But it may happen that if the gland is over-excited—as by pilocarpine—the discharge becomes more rapid than the production, and the cells are gradually depleted of secretion- granules.