FIBROUS TISSUE 109 In the loAver animals remarkable movements are often observed in the ramified pigment-cells—e.q. those of the frog’s skin. In these the dark particles of pigment are at one time dispersed over a large ramified area, but at another time they are gathered into a heap in the central part, leaving the rest of the branched area vacant. In the former case the skin is of a dusky hue, in the latter pale. The Fig. 177.—A shall poktion of the choboid coat op the eye. (Schafer.) Highly magnified, nuclei of flattened cells (the outlines of the cells are not indicated); I, lymphoid cells. aggregation of the pigment-molecules can be excited through the nerves, both directly and also in a reflex manner, as by the stimulus of light upon the retina. It has usually been held that the changes in the pigment-cells above described are due to movements of the pigment-granules within the protoplasm. But Verworn states that the movement is one of the whole protoplasm of the cell, and therefore a true amoeboid movement (see fig. 105, p. 65). ‘ FIBROUS TISSUE. When the bundles of connective tissue are disposed for the most part in one or two definite directions, instead of interlacing in every direction as in areolar tissue, they confer a distinctly fibrous aspect on the parts which they compose, accompanied by the acquisition of certain properties, which are mainly due to the parallel disposition of the elements of the tissue, and to the preponderance of white fibres over elastic. This fibrous tissue is met with in the ligaments, con- necting the bones together at the joints ; it also forms the tendons of muscles, to which their fleshy fibres are attached, and which again serve to attach these fibres to the bones. In many parts it assumes the membranous form, and consti- tutes a class of membranes termed ‘ fibrous.’ Examples of these are seen in the periosteum and perichondrium which cover the bones and cartilages, in the dura mater which lines the skull, in the fibrous layer of the pericardium, in the albugineous coat of the testicle, and the sclerotic coat of the eye. Fibrous membranes, named ‘ aponeuroses ’ or ‘ fasciae,’ are also employed to envelop and bind down the muscles of different regions, of which the great fascia enclosing the muscles of the thigh and leg is a well-known example. The tendons of muscles, too, may assume the ' See on the movements of pigment-cells, G. van Rynbeck, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1906 (lit.); Babak, Pfliiger’s Arch, cxxxi. 1909.