89‘2 THE BLOOD It lias been found ^ that each possesses a chromatin mass (chromidium) which seems to represent a nucleus, and that under suitable conditions the cytoplasm exhibits changes of form comparable to the amoeboid movements of proto- plasmic cells (fig. 588). They may therefore be looked upon as minute cells, and this conclusion seems to be borne out by their chemical composition, which resembles that of cells in general, consisting mainly of nucleo-proteins with some lecithin and cholesterin. They are readily destroyed by dilute alkalies,'^ and are stained by basic dyes, especially by methyl-violet. They vary greatly in number in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions : the number has been estimated by Brodie and Bussell at from 5,000 to 450,000 per cubic millimetre.^ The pro- perty which the blood-platelets possess of rapidly, almost explosively, throwing out processes and adhering together in masses when they come in contact with a foreign body has led to the supposition that these masses may serve the purpose of a plug at places where injuries to blood-vessels have occurred ; ^ thus assisting to arrest haemorrhage before the formation of a fibrin coagulum can occur to efiect this object more com- pletely. In this way they would re- semble the action of the far larger cells in invertebrates, which produce a similar arrest of haemorrhage by thrusting out processes and adhering firmly together as soon as the escaping blood comes into contact with injured tissue or foreign matter; ^ a kind of pseudo-coagulum being thus formed which produces the same result as that of an ordinary fibrin-clot, but much more rapidly. The view that this is ' Deetjen, Virch. Arch, clxiv.; Dekhuj'^zen, Anat. Anz. xix. 1901; Kopsch, ibid. 2 Eisen (Journ. Morph, xv. 1899), who terms them plasmocytes, looks upon them as repre- senting free centrosomes or centrioles of the erythrocytes. J. H. Wright (Virch. Arch, clxxxvi. 1906) states that they are produced by the megakaryocytes of bone-marrow, and cau be seen on the warm stage to break off from these. Dantschakoff fArch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiv. 1909) and R. W. King (Journ. Med. Res. xxiv. 1911) believe that they are formed by the breaking- down of the nuclei of the erythrohlasts of the mai’row. All of these suggestions seem improbable. ^ Deetjen, Verhandl. d. path. Gesel. 1909. ^ Journ. Physiol, xxi. 1897. ^ It has been shown by Bizzozero (Virch. Arch, xc. 1882) and by Eberth and Schimmelbusch (Die Thrombose, etc., Stuttgart, 1888) that the white thrombus-formation of the pathologists is due to the accumulation ami adhesion of blood-platelets to the diseased or injured vascular walls. “ I;. Eredericq, Bull. acad. roy. de Belgique, xlvii. 1879; P. Geddes, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxx. 1879-80; W. B. Hardy. Journ. Physiol, xiii. 1892; Botazzi, Arch. ital. de biol. xxxvii. 1902 ; L. Loeh, Biol. Bull, iv. J.903; John Tait, Quart. Journ. Exper. Physiol, ii. 1909. The agglutinated corpuscles of the peri- visceral ffuid in ecliinoderms exude a coagulable material, no such material being present in the Iluid itself (Schiifer, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxiv. 1882). Fig. 590.—Blood of frog. (Ranvier.) Magnified 100 diameters. The preparation had been kept twenty-four hours. a, a, rosettingof blood-corpuscles around clumps of blood-platelets; &, a strand of corpuscles joining two rosettes ; n, n, loose corpuscles. Fig. 589. — Network of fibrin, SHOWN AFTER WASHING AWAY THE CORPUSCLES FROM A PREPARATION OF BLOOD THAT HAS BEEN ALLOWED TO CLOT. (Schiifer.) Many of the filaments radiate from small clumps of blood-platelets.