THE BLOOD ^ E. C. Guthrie, Amer. Journ. Physiol, vii. 1903. * Op. cit. 870 when shaken up with blood, but do not dissolve the envelope; they merely render it permeable to the haemoglobin. The blood or serum of some animals produces decolorisation of the red corpuscles of others belonging to different genera. This is due to the presence of a special substance in the foreign blood [hcemolysin), the actual nature of which has not been determined definitely.' Immunity to the effect may be brought about by previous injections of the foreign blood into the living animal, an antihcemolysin being thus produced. Solutions of common salt, if stronger than 0’6 to 0’9 per cent, (according to the source of the blood), i.e. hypertonic solutions, produce, when added to blood, crenation of the red cor- puscles. This is due to osmosis, the corpuscles losing water and thereby becoming shrunken.2 Weaker solutions (hypotonic) tend to cause laking. The particular strength of solution which causes no alteration in the corpuscles is termed ‘ isotonic.’ The action of reagents seems to throw some light on the nature of the membrane of the erythrocyte. For it is not easy to understand why ether and chloroform should produce their particular effect unless the membrane were capable of being partly or entirely dissolved by them, and other reactions point to the fact that it is at least in part composed of lipoid substances, such as lecithin and cholesterin, having the physical characters of fats. It is probable that the composition of the envelope is similar to protoplasm, and that it is covered by a superficial layer of lipoid. The membrane of the erythrocytes becomes so altered by drying the •corpuscles that they are then capable of being ‘ laked ’ by isotonic salt- solution.'^ The suggestion that the external layer of the erythrocyte is formed of lecithin and cholesterin (‘ myelin ’) is due to Norris.'* Norris showed that fluid droplets enclosed by myelin (Hpoids) tend to take a flattened shape, whereas when enclosed by ordinary fats they are invariably globular. Various other phenomena which have been noticed in connexion with the action of reagents and of varying external conditions upon the red corpuscles point to the same conclusion, viz. that the external pellicle of the erythrocyte is composed of a material having the character of lipoids. A heat of 52° C. causes the coloured corpuscles to extrude globular processes and beaded filaments which may attain a relatively considerable length, and eventually break off from the main substance of the corpuscle, forming coloured particles in the fluid. A further increase of temperature to 60° C. sets free the hsemoglobin, and produces the complete disappear- ance of the corpuscles. Here we may suppose the pellicle to become softened and eventually completely melted under the action of the increasing temperature, thus permitting of the partial and eventually of the complete flowing out of the contents. Almost any fluid which has a solvent action upon lipoids also causes an extrusion of the haemoglobin, sometimes with disappearance of the membrane; this is the case, for example, with solutions of the bile salts. Dilute alcohol in the form of sherry wine was noticed by Addison to produce at first the extrusion of filaments like those caused by heat; this may be supposed also to be due to its attacking the pellicle. The envelopes of the corpuscles, after complete decolorisation with water or dilute acids, stain faintly but characteristically of the presence of lipoid, when treated with osmic acid. Finally, the presence of such a pellicle would, as pointed out by Norris (see p. 368), furnish a sufficient explanation of the otherwise obscure phenomenon of rouleau-formation. The envelope can be stained with magenta (Roberts) and with methyl violet (Schafer). Its softness and elasticity is shown by the manner in which the corpuscles are distorted in shape by currents in the fluid in which they are immersed and the readiness with which they recover their * According to Gottlieb and Lefmann heemolysin is of the nature of a lipoid, which can be extracted by ether from the corpuscles (Med. Klinik, 1907). - On the osmotic effects of various solutions see Hamburger, Arch, fiir Physiol. 1887 and 1898; Zeitschr. f. Biol. xxvi. 1898; Zeitschr. f. physik. Chemie, Ixix. 1909. The action of many solutions upon the erythrocytes depends upon the permeability of the membrane of the latter to the different ions which the solutions contain. Other substances produce luemolytic effects by entire or partial solution of or other direct action upon the superficial membrane, the permeability of which tlius becomes altered.