662 UTERUS tubes bounded by a basement-membrane and lined with ciliated columnar cells like those covering the inner surface. They pass usually obliquely and often with an irregular or convoluted course into the deeper part of the mucous membrane, and there terminate by blind, sometimes forked extremities, situated amongst the bundles of the muscularis mucosse. Towards their extremities the uterine glands are often filled with cells, but in the greater part of their extent they have a distinct lumen. The epithelium-cells are sometimes short and cubical rather than columnar.' Cilia are not always to be found on them. Nerve-fibres have been traced into the epithelium. The mucous membrane of the cervix is much firmer and more fibrous than that of the body. Between the rugse of the arbor vitce there are numerous saccular and tubular glandular invaginations, much wider than the glands of the body of the uterus. In the lower part of the cervix (vaginal portion) the mucous membrane is beset with vascular papillae, and the epithelium is stratified, but in the upper half or more the epithelium is columnar and ciliated like that of the body. The glands. Fig. 957.—Section oe mucous membhane of human uterus during menstruation, sh gv- ING masses of blood WHICH HAS ESCAPED FROM RUPTURED CAPILLARIES INTO T IE INTERGLANDUL.\R TISSUE, AND HAS AT ONE PLACE (*) BROKEN THROUGH THE SURFACE EPITHELIUM. (Sellheim.) of the cervix uteri are short, with a large lumen; they are lined tliroughout with columnar ciliated epithelium, even where the epithelium of the surface is stratified. Besides the ordinary glands there are almost constantly to be seen the so-called ovula Nabothi; clear yellowish vesicles of variable size, but visible to the naked eye, embedded in the membrane. These probably arise from closed and distended gland-tubes, but their exact nature is doubtful. During pregnancy the m_ucous glands of the cervix secrete a considerable quantity of tenacious mucus, which effectually closes the passage into the vagina from the uterine cavity. The blood-vessels of the cervix have comparatively thick walls. The internal surface of the os uteri is covered, like the vaginal portion, with stratified epithelium, which conceals vascular papillae. It is destitute of glands. Periodic structural chang'es in the uterus.—At each successive recur- rence of menstruation a complete removal of the superficial part of the mucous membrane takes place by a process of softening and molecular disintegration. This ^ Bjijrkenheim, Aunt. Hefte, x.k.kv. 1907.