82 EPITHELIUM THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. A large number of tissues of varied origin and cell-structure are grouped under this head, but all agree in being composed entirely of cells, with but little or no intercellular substance ; ^ they are usually found covering or lining free surfaces, internal or external. The term which is now employed to designate these tissues was first used to signify the thin cuticle, continuous with the epidermis, which covers the red border of the lips. Ruysch found these to be beset with papillae, and termed the covering layer epithelia from iiri and Orjkp, a nipple or papilla, and the use of the term in the modified form of epithelium has since spread to signify any similar kind of tissue, whether covering papillary surfaces or not.‘^ The epithelium lining such internal surfaces as the serous cavities and the walls of the heart, blood-vessels, and lymphatics is sometimes spoken of as endothelium Fig. 128.—Pavement-epithelium (endothelium) feom the omentum of the babbit. Nitrate of silver staining. (Scliiifer.) (His), which is a contraction of the term endo-epithelium ; it is also designated mesothelium (Minot) to denote its origin from mesoderm.^ The thickness of different epithelia varies greatly. Some are composed of a single layer of very thin fiattened cells set side by side to form a mosaic {pavement- epithelium)—the endothelia are of this nature ; in others the tissue is still only a single layer of cells deep, but the individual cells are thicker {cubical, columnar, glandular, and ciliated epithelium); whilst in others, again, there are several or even a great number of layers of cells, and the tissue may attain a considerable thickness {stratified epithelimn). However great the thickness, blood-vessels do not, as a rule, penetrate between the cells of the tissue,’ although fine channels containing lymph may exist between them. Nerve-fibrils, on the other hand, are abundantly 1 For the nature of this intercellular material in epithelia, see p. 7. See note by Sharpey in Quain’s Anatomy (8th edition), p. 43, 1870. •" The epithelium of the generative glands and that of the convoluted and looped tubules of the kidney are also formed from mesoderm ; these cannot be included along with the endotlielia. Exceptions to this general rule are met with in the liver, in some of the internally secreting glands including the islets of Langerhans within the pancreas—and in the stria vascularis of the cochlea. For other instances of vascularised epithelium, see F. Leydig, Zelle u. Gewebe, 1885, and Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1808; Maurer, Morph. Jahrb. 1897, and H. Joseph, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898.