INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS 680 tissue plasma-cells become accumulated, and these, at least in the interstitial tissue, appear to be eventually transformed into fat-cells, the normal structure of the thymus becoming gradually, but never completely, obliterated. For it has been shown by Waldeyer, and more recently by Hammar,’ and by Soderlund and Backman,^ that even in advanced age not only can the original shape of the thymus be distinctly made out, but that in addition there are constantly to be found traces of its original structure in the form of small masses of thymus-corpuscles and a reticulum of branched cells and even concentric corpuscles. No definite age can be given for the occurrence of involution of the thymus, although it usually begins to atrophy at puberty. It may, however, persist long past middle age and show normal structure. Its involution is much delayed by castration. Conversely its Fig. 981. — Developing THYMUS OF LATER EM- BRYO. (From Prenant, Bouin, and Maillard.) The organ is now in the form of a branched epi- thelial tube, the distal end being solid. Fig. 982.—More advanced stage of develop- ment OF THYMUS. (From Prenant, Bouin, and Maillard.) The epithelial tube has become enlarged and thickened and its cavity is obliterated. The dis- tinction into cortex (c) and medulla (m) is apparent. The medulla comes to the surface here and there. removal in young animals accelerates sexual maturation at any rate in the male sex, although the general growth of the body is not influenced.^ The thymus is an organ the size of which is easily influenced by the nutritive conditions of the body, wasting rapidly in inanition and increasing in size with abundance of nourishment."* Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the thymus are derived from various sources. Their branches penetrate to the ultimate lobules, where they form a ^ Arch. f. Anat. 1906, Supplement volume. The changes which the thymus undergoes in weight and in structure at different ages are very fully dealt with in this paper. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiii. 1909 (in the rabbit). •' Paton and Goodall, Journ. Physiol, xxxi. 1904 ; J. Henderson, ibid.; A. Goodall, Journ. Physiol, xxxii. 1905; Soli, Arch. ital. de biol. lii. 1909. The effect of removing the thymus has recently been investigated in dogs by Klose and Vogt (Beitr. z. klin. Chir. Ixix. 1910), who state that, after a pro- longed period without adverse symptoms, a condition of cachexia, ultimately proving fatal, results. The literature of the subject is given in this paper. ^ Hammar, oj). cit. 1906 ; A. Jonson, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiii. 1909. Hammar found that the amount of leucocytes and even of Hassall’s corpuscles is markedly affected by general conditions of nutrition.