134 CAKTILAGE By exposure to water and some other liquids, as well as to the action of electric shocks, the cell-body shrinks away from the inside of the capsule, and assumes a jagged or otherwise irregular figure, and then may hide the nucleus. The cells of cartilage often contain glycogen, and are coloured reddish-brown by iodine (Neumann).* They are rarely dispersed singly in the matrix, most commonly occurring in groups of two or more. When disposed in pairs (as at a, fig. 214) the cells are generally triangular or pyramidal in form with rounded angles, and with their bases opposite one another ; in the larger groups {h) the cells have a straight outline where they adjoin or approach one another, but at the circumference of the group their outline is rounded. Towards the surface of the cartilage the groups are a' Sg, -a B I c d e Fig. 218.—Vertical section of articular cartilage covering the lower end of the TIBIA (human). (Schafer.) Magnified about 30 diameters. rt, cells and cell-groups flattened conformably with the surface ; &, cell-groups irregularly arranged ; c, cell-groups disposed perpendicularly to the surface; fZ, layer of calcified cartilage ; e, bone. generally flattened conformably with the surface, appearing narrow and almost linear when seen edgeways, as in a perpendicular section (fig. 218, a). Various observers have shown that the matrix of hyaline cartilage can be broken up after long maceration, and with the aid of pressure, into fine fibrils. These fibres are vertical to the surface in articular cartilage, and parallel with the long axis in rib cartilage (Cresswell Baber).They are more easily seen in the cartilage of birds than of mammals. Their chemical nature is not very clear, nor is it certain how far the appearances correspond with any structure naturally present; but since gelatin and mucin can be obtained from the matrix of cartilage, the fibres in question may be chemically of the same nature as the white fibres of con- nective tissue, the mucin belonging to the ground-substance in which they are imbedded. Other histologists have described a network of fine ramified canals penetrating the cartilage- matrix, and effecting a communication between the cell-spaces. Up to the present time, however, the existence of such anastomosing channels has not been conclusively proved, although often 1 Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiv. 1877 and xvi. 1878. 2 Jouni. Anat. and Physiol, x. 18U5.