161 OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE the marrow spaces of H. Miiller), which are filled by jelly-like embryonic marrow, with ramified cells and osteoblasts, the cartilage-cells which occupied the primary areola disappear- ina; before it. All the middle of the calcified temporary carti- lage becomes thus excavated with large spaces (fig. 248), sometimes with a single large space (fig. 249), and replaced by the vascular osteoblastic tissue. As the calcification of the cartilage-matrix extends towards the ends of the shaft, pro- ceeding always in the same manner, the osteoblastic tissue closely follows, and after sup- planting the cartilage-cells in the primary areolse, absorbs parts of their walls so as to throw two or more together to form secondary areolse ; in this way a great part of the calcified cartilage-matrix is at once removed. At a short distance below the advancing ossification, the marrow spaces become at first somewhat more enlarged by further absorption, but at the same time their walls (which were at first formed only by the remains of the walls of the primary areolae and therefore only by calcified cartilage matrix) begin to be thickened by the deposition of layers of new bone, and this deposition increases gradually towards the middle of the shaft (compare fig. 252, c and d). The lacunae first appear in this deposit ; there are of course none in the calcified cartilage. More- over, as layer after layer is deposited upon the walls of the marrow spaces these be- come gradually narrowed into intercommunicating channels, which contain little more than a blood-vessel and some jelly- like embryonic connective tissue (foetal marrow), with a certain number of bone. VOL. II. PART I. Fig. 247.—Section of part of one of the limb-bones OF A FCETAL cat, AT A MORE ADVANCED STAGE OF OSSIFICATION THAN IS REPRESENTED IN FIG. 246, -A.ND SOMEWHAT MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (Scliufer.) The calcification of the cartilage-matrix has advanced from the centre, and is extending between the groups of cartilage-cells, which are now arranged in characteristic rows. The subperiosteal bony deposit iini) has extended pari 2)(issu with the calcification of the cartilage-matrix. The cartilage-cells in the primary areoloe are mostly shrunken and stellate ; in some cases they have dropped out of the space. At ir and in two other places an irruption of the subperiosteal tissue, composed of ramified cells with osteoblasts and growing blood-vessels, has penetrated the subperiosteal bony crust, and has begun to excavate the secondary areoloa or marrow spaces ; p, fibrous layer of the periosteum ; o, layer of osteoblasts : some of them are imbedded in the osseous layer as bone-corpuscles in lacunre; hi, blood-vessels occupied by blood-corpuscles. Beyond the line of ossific advance the periosteum may be noticed to be distinctly incurved. This incurvation is gradually moved on, the cartilage expanding behind and in front of it until the head of the bone is reached, when it forms tlie periosteal notch or groove represented in fig. 248. osteoblasts applied to the iM