NEKVE-ENDIN(JS. ‘270 - A. S. Dogiel, Anat. Auz. xxv. 1904 ; Van de Velde, op. cit. ’ Sala, Anat. Auz. xvi. 1900. axis-cylinder is far less stained. It sometimes happens that the fibre regains its double contour for a short space, and changes again before it terminates ; this is especially liable to occur while it passes through a sharp flexure in a crooked core. The fibre usually ends by an enlargement at the farther extremity of the core, which is here itself somewhat dilated. The enlargement is formed by an expansion of the axis-cylinder, and is sometimes of considerable size. It may be of an irregular shape with processes branching outwards from the sides and ending in an arborescent manner in the core.' The axis-cylinder shows the usual longitudinal fibrillation as it passes through the core, and the fibrils become somewhat spread out as they pass into the terminal expansion, where they form a dense network ^ (fig. 426). In many n Fig. 425.—Pabt of Pacinian body, showing the NERVE-FIBRE ENTERING THE CORE. From an osmic-acid prejparation. (Schafer.) entering nerve-fibre, the medullary sheatji of which is stained darkly, and ends abruptly at the core ; jjs, iirolongation of primitive sheath, passing towards the outer part of the core; c /, axis-cylinder passing through the core as the central fibre ; e, some of the inner tunics of the corpuscle, enlarged where they abut against the canal through which the nerve-fibre passes; 111 nuclei of the tunics ; n' nuclei of the endoneurium, continued by others in the outer part of the core. Fig. 426.—Ending of axial fibre in a Pacinian corpuscle from the mesen- tery OF THE CAT, SHOWING THE NEURO- FIBRILS. (Van de Velde.) n, axis-cylinder ; c, neuro-fibrillar network at its termination; 6, some of the innermost tunics of the capsule. cases the fibre, either immediately before terminating, or in its course through the core, divides into branches. In case of division of the fibre, the core is generally, but not invariably, divided in a corresponding measure, and the^nner tunics present a figure in keeping with it. It is worthy of remark, that the nerve-fibre in its course along the core runs almost exactly in the axis of the latter, and it maintains this position even when passing through the abrupt flexures of an irregularly shaped core. It sometimes happens that a fibre passes quite through one corpuscle and terminates in a second, resuming its original size and dark outline while passing from the one to the other. A little artery enters the Pacinian body along with the