FALLOPIAN TUBE 658 tube, sometimes of considerable size, and prolonged for some distance downwards in the broad ligament. According to Ballantyne the tubules are thicker and better developed in women who have borne children than in others. The structure undergoes partial atrophy after the menopause. Its more developed form in some animals, as the cow and pig, constitutes the duct of Gartner.' The origin of this vestige of a foetal structure is referred to under Development (Vol. I.). Here it is sufficient to state that it corresponds essentially to the epididymis of the male. Vestiges corresponding to the organ of Giraldes of the male are also sometimes to be detected in the adult female, in the shape of tubular remnants, situated in the broad ligament nearer to the uterus than the parovarium. These constitute the paroophoron of Waldeyer. Cyst-like rudiments are also frequently found between the epoophoron and the opening of thn Fallopian tube : they are sometimes attached to the broad ligament by a stalk (fig. 954, ^). They have been compared to the hydatids of Morgagni Fig. 954.—Adult ovary, parovarium and Fallopian tube. (Kobelt.) a, a, Epoophoron (parovarium) formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body; b, remains of the uppermost tubes, sometimes forming hydatids ; c, middle set of tubes ; d, some lower atrophied tubes; e, atrophied remains of the Wolffian duct; /, the terminal bulb or hydatid; h, the Fallopian tube, originally the duct of Miiller; i, hydatid attached to the extremity ; I, the ovary. of the male, but are probably not developed from the Mullerian duct (which forms the Fallopian tube) but from portions either of the tubules or of the main tube of the epoophoron. See on the epoophoron and paroophoron Ballantyne and Williams, ‘ The structures in the Mesosalpinx,’ 1893 ; Waldeyer, ‘ Eierstock u. Ei,’ Leipzig, 1870 ; ‘ Eierstock u. Nebeneierstock,’ in Strieker’s Handbook, 1871 ; Janosik, Wiener Sitzungsb. xci. 1885. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES The ovary being regarded as a gland for the production of ova the Fallopian tube represents its duct. It is, however, very different from other gland-ducts, since it does not immediately start from the ovary but opens into the peritoneal cavity near that organ by a minute orifice seen in the middle of its fimbriated or fringed ovarian extremity. The fimbrige come into close relation with the surface of the ovary, to the upper end of which one of them is attached ; when the ovum is discharged it generally lodges either upon this or one of the other fimbria). The fimbrise are covered on the surface opposite the ovum with cilia, which produce a current in the direction of the orifice of the tube ; the ovum is carried into this and is then gradually propelled towards the uterus by the cilia lining the tube. The uterine end of the tube communicates with the cavity of ^ See on the duct of Giirtner in man, R. Meyer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiii. 19U9.