DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS 353 situation (figs. 543, 544) which form a syncytium. Vacuoles are formed within this, and as they increase in size run together ; a cavity filled with fluid is in this wav produced in parts of the syncytium. The nuclei of the cells have meanwhile multiplied, and blood-corpuscles have become formed within the cavity in the manner to be described in connexion with blood-development. The cavities, while these changes are going on, in- crease largely in size, especielly in the chick, where they form vesicles (fig. 543), visible to the naked eye as minute reddish specks, which have been known since the time of Pander as ‘ blood- islands.’ The enlarged parts of the syncytium are united to one another by narrower parts, and after a time the cavities extend into the narrow portions so that a network of vessels is produced. ■ The wall of these primary vessels is therefore composed at first merely of the protoplasm of the syncytium, with nuclei imbedded in it here and there. Subsequently the proto- plasm becomes difierentiated around the nuclei into the flattened cells which compose the wall of the capillaries, and which form the lining membrane of the arteries and veins; but this differentiation may not occur until comparatively late, and the capillaries of certain parts never show it (see p. 344). The remaining coats of the larger vessels are developed later, from other mesoderm-cells which apply Fig. 543.—Cells peom middle layer op chick’s BLASTODERM UNDERGOING DEVELOPMENT INTO BLOOD-VESSELS. Magnified. (E. Klein.) a, cavity of cell; h, wall of cell; /, /, cells not yet hollowed out; cZ, blood-corpuscles. Fig. 544.—Developing blood-vessels in mesoderm op vascular area op guinea-pig. (Schafer.) hi, nucleated embryonic red corpuscles accumulating at the enlargements of a network of mesoderm-cells, which is becoming hollowed out at the enlarged parts. At cl, cl, division- appearances. The smaller figure on the left shows the part, a, of the larger figure more highly magnified. themselves to the exterior of the previously simple endothelial tubes and produce the plain muscular and other tissues of which those coats consist. In many parts of the body of the embryo, vessels are formed in like manner from cells of the connective tissue, especially in rapidly growing vascular tissues. VOL. II. PART I. A A