TEETH 512 ultimately broken up into isolated portions, wbich may be seen occasionally, even in the adult, as epithelial islands in the connective tissue of the dental periosteum (fig. 730 a).^ After the formation of the dentine of the root has begun, the vascular tissue of the dental sac begins to break through the epithelial sheath near the crown, and forms a layer of osteogenic tissue at the surface of the newly deposited dentine. The osteoblasts of this tissue produce layers of true bone, with osteogenic fibres, lacunae, and canaliculi, upon the surface of the dentine of the root; these layers form the cement of the fang. The extreme end of each fang, which is the last part to be produced, is formed wholly of cement, for the epithelial sheath which determines the formation of dentine never extends quite as far as the permanent apex. The dental sacs, which enclose the developing teeth before their eruption, are conspicuous in the jaws of infants a few months old. They consist of an outer fibrous coat connected with the periosteum, and an inner highly vascular coat, with a httle jelly-like connective tissue between the two. The inner coat is fined by the epithelium of the enamel-organ. The blood- vessels are derived partly from the dental arteries which course along the base of the sacs, partly from those of the gums. Their extreme vascularity doubtless has relation to the nutrition of the enamel-organ. At birth calcification of the crowns of all the milk-incisors and canines is fairly advanced. The separated cusps of the milk-molars have also blended, and the calcification of the first permanent molar is just beginning in the form of separate caps for each cusp, one of which has usually appeared at birth, while the others follow shortly after. These, however, do not run together until six months after birth. The germs of the permanent incisors and canines are visible to the naked eye at birth, lying behind and slightly lateral to the corresponding milk-teeth ; but there is no trace as yet either of the premolars or of the second permanent molar. The last mentioned makes its appearance between four and six months after birth, the papilla of the first premolar about the tenth month, that of the second premolar about the eighteenth month. At two years, when the second milk-molars are just coming through the gum, the crown of the first permanent molar is finished, but there are still only isolated cusps on the second permanent molar of the upper jaw, and none on the second permanent molar of the lower jaw. In the premolars also the (two) cusps are still separate at this time. The various phases in the formation of the teeth occur almost simultaneously in the corre- sponding teeth of both jaws. Formation of tlie alveoli.—All the tooth-germs are at first included in a common osseous trough or groove, which encloses the whole dental lamina and the adjacent connective tissue. This begins to be formed at about 14 weeks (embryo of 1T5 cm.). Bony septa subsequently become formed and subdivide the trough into loculi, but even at birth these septa are incomplete, and up to this time, and even later, both the milk-tooth and the corresponding permanent tooth- germ are enclosed in the same loculus. As the fangs become developed the loculi deepen and also become subdivided to form separate cavities for the teeth of both first and second dentition. Around the milk-teeth they become narrowed to form alveoli which closely invest the roots ; but although the whole of the developing tooth is at one time imbedded in the cavity of the alveolus, the bone never completely closes over it, an aperture being always left over the crown, through which the dental sac is connected by soft tissues with the surface of the gum. In the same way, when the teeth of the second dentition become invested within alveoli, these always have a narrow opening through which the so-called gubernaculum dentis, a band of connective tissue containing remains of the common dental lamina, passes (fig. 747). Development of the permanent teeth.—Ten permanent teeth in each jaw succeed the milk-teeth, and six are superadded further back in the jaw. It will be convenient to treat first of the ten anterior teeth or teeth of succession. The sacs and pulps of these teeth have their foundations laid before birth in the v/ay already described. It will be remembered that behind and lateral to each milk-follicle there is found ^ C. Tomes has shown that an epithelial sheath is formed in the same manner, even in the teeth of animals {e.g. Taturia) in which the dental germ produces no enamel at all. " In some animals the cement of the teeth is preceded by the formation of cartilage, which becomes ossified as in the endochondral formation of bone (Magitot, v. Brunn). According to Magitot, in aninnils such as ruminants, in which the cement covers the crown, a special cartilaginous ‘cement-organ’ is developed for its production.