177 MINUTE STRUCTURE (Kolliker) or sarcostylcs ‘; but these terms have also been applied to the individual fibrils. Each fibril appears to consist of a row of elongated rod-like cylindrical or prismatic darker particles, joined together end to end by a clearer substance and separated from one another laterally by a material termed sarcoplasm. The sarco- plasm in longitudinal view produces the appearance of fine lines, sometimes with varicosities or dots upon, them (figs. 267, 271), running with great regularity along the fibre. It lies in larger amount between the groups of fibrils, and in transverse section takes on the appearance of a network. The rod-like darker parts of the Fig. 270.—Fkagment of cbab’s muscle, SPLITTING INTO FIBRILS. (Schiifer.) Magnified 600 diameters. Fig. 272.—Muscular fibre of leg of Vespa vulgaris after short treatment VTTH DILUTE FORMIC ACID. (Schafer.) S, sarcolemma; D, dot-like enlargement of sarcoplasm; K, Krause’s membrane. Fig. 271.—Living leg-muscle of water- beetle (Dytiscus MARGiNALis). (Schafer.) Highly magnified. a, dim stripe ; h, bright stripe with rows of dots, Avhich are enlargements or thicken- ings on the longitudinal septa of sarcoplasm. These septa are represented by the longi- tudinal lines. The continuity of these lines through the bright stripe is difficult to see in the fresh fibre, but after treatment with acid it becomes quite distinct (see fig. 272). fibrils form by their lateral juxtaposition the dark stripes, and the clearer substance which unites them longitudinally forms the light stripe ; the darker parts of the fibril were termed sarcous elements by Bowman.^ Under certain circumstances the fibres show a tendency to cleave across in a direction parallel to the bands, and even to break up into transverse plates or discs, which are formed by the lateral cohesion of the sarcous elements of adjacent fibrils. To make up such a disc, therefore, every fibril contributes a particle, which coheres with its neighbours on each side, and this with perfect regularity. From a consideration of this fact Bowman was led to conclude the subdivision of a fibre into fibrils to be merely a phenomenon of the same kind as the separation into discs, only of more common occurrence, the cleavage in the latter case taking place longitudinally instead of transversely ; accordingly, he came to the conclusion that the ‘ fibrillse ’ have no existence as such in the fibre, any more than the discs ; but that both the one and the other owe their origin to the regular arrangement of the particles of the fibre (sarcous elements) ‘ <rdp^, muscle ; (TtvKos, a column. Schafer, Proc. Roy. Soc. xlix. 1891; Int. Monthly Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, viii. 1891. ' Phil. Trans. 1840. VOL. II. PART I. N