LYMPH-GLANDS 397 LYMPH-GLANDS: LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Xiymph-g-lands or lymphatic g'lands, formerly named also conglobate glands^ and by modern French writers ganglions lympliatiques, are small solid bodies, placed in the course of the lymph-vessels and lacteals, through which the contents of these vessels have to pass in their progress towards the thoracic duct or the right lymphatic duct. These bodies are collected in numbers along the great vessels of the neck, and also in the thorax and abdomen, especially in the mesentery and alongside of the aorta, vena cava inferior, and iliac vessels. A few, usually of small size, are found on the external parts of the head, and considerable groups are situated in the axilla and groin. Some three or four lie on the popliteal vessels, and usually one is placed a little below the knee, but none farther down. In the arm they are found as low as the elbow-joint.^ Lymph-glands occur in all mammals, but only a few are found in birds, and these, of a comparatively simple structure, lie near the root of the neck and at the upper part of the thorax. No vertebrates below birds possess lymph-glands. The lymph of some lymph-vessels passes through two, three, or even more lymph-glands before reaching the thoracic duct, whilst, on the other hand, there are lymph-vessels which enter the thoracic duct with- out having traversed any gland. The size of lymph-glands is very various, some being not much larger than a hemp-seed, while others are as large as an almond or a broad-bean, or even larger than this. In shape, too, they present differences, but most of them are round, oval, or kidney-shaped. The lymphatics or lacteals which enter a gland are termed its afferent vessels {vasa inferentia sen afferentia), and those which issue from it the efferent vessels {vasa efferentia). The afferent vessels (fig. 593, a.l), on approaching a gland, divide into many small branches, which enter the surface ; the efferent lymphatics commonly leave the gland at a depression {liiluni) on one of its sides; and at a little distance beyond it, some- times even before issuing from it, unite into one or more trunks {e.l), usually larger in size than the afferent vessels. A lymph-gland is covered externally with a capsule (figs. 593, 595, c) of connec- tive tissue (white and elastic), mixed, in most animals, with many plain muscle-cells. This capsule dips into the interior of the gland at the place where the larger blood- vessels and the efferent lymphatics pass into and out of the organ ; this is the part of the gland, which often has a depression, above referred to as the hilum (fig. 594, a). The proper substance of the gland consists of two parts, the cortex (fig. 594, c), and within this the medulla (h). The cortex occupies all the superficial part of the gland, except at the hilum, and in the larger glands may attain a thickness of one or two millimetres. The medullary portion occupies the centre and extends to the surface at the hilum. It is most developed in the inwardly seated glands, such as the lumbar and mesenteric, whilst in the subcutaneous glands it is more encroached upon by the connective tissue which enters with the larger blood-vessels at the hilum, and which surrounds them, together with the lymph-vessels, in the centre of 1 Rainer has described a small lymph-gland at the base of the heart, under the epicardiiim and close to the root of the aorta (Anat. Anz. xxxi. 1907). Fig. 594.—Section of a mesenteric gland from the ox, SLIGHTLY MAGNIFIED. (Kblliker.) a, hilum ; h, medullary substance ; c, cortical substance with indistinct alveoli; cl, capsule.