NERVES OF BLOOD-VESSELS 851 open into the special blood-sinuses (ampullce) of the organ, from which minute veins collect the blood. In certain other parts of the body small arteries have been seen passing into small veins without the intervention of true capillaries (Hyrtl, Sucquet, Hoyer). NERVES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. That small groups of ganglion- cells occur along the course of the coronary arteries of the heart has already been mentioned, but these cells belong to the heart proper; and the ganglia described by Lehmann in the inferior vena cava may also be regarded as scat- tered extrinsic sympathetic cells not belonging to the vessel proper. Both sensory as well as motor ■ nerves are distributed to the coats of arteries. They form plexuses round the larger arteries, and run along the smaller branches in the form of fine bundles of nerve-fibres, which here and there twist round the vessel, and unite with one another in a plexiform manner. The fine motor branches destined for the artery penetrate to the middle coat; to the muscular tissue Fig. 540. — Tbansverse section of a monkey’s SPLEEN, FIXED BY INJECTING THE WHOLE ANIMAL FROM THE AORTA. ThE VENOUS SINUSOIDS APPEAR AS IRREGULARLY SHAPED HOLES. ThE GRANUL.YR MASSES ARE THE MaLPIGHIAN CORPUSCLES. of which they are chiefly distributed. Sensory nerves terminating in a kind of end-plate were described by Dogiel in the walls of small blood-vessels (fig. 541); they have also been found by others in the tunica intima of the aorta and pulmonary artery (Schemetkin), and of all cerebral arteries (Huber). In addition to these special sensory end-plates. Pacinian corpuscles have been found in the tunica adventitia of the abdominal aorta, Fig. 541.—Terminal ramifications of afferent nerve-fibres in a small blood-vessel (A. S. Dogiel.) especially close to the diaphragm, but also in the lower part as far down as the common iliac arteries ; also in the inferior vena cava and in the thoracic portion of the aorta in animals, but not in man (Rachanow). While both sensory end- plates and Pacinian corpuscles occur in the adventitia of vessels, other fibres pierce the adventitia and media and terminate in the intima, the best example of