70 VITAL PHENOMENA OF PKOTOPLASM and consequent Ho wing out on the kathodal side (Verworn). These results are such as would be produced by the impinging of kations and anions respectively against opposite poles of the organism ; the former tending to cause coagulation and contraction of colloid, the latter liquefaction and relaxation^ The action of the galvanic current is known by the term galvanotaxis, the movements thereby induced being spoken of as galvanotropism.- The direction of protoplasmic movements is correspondingly influenced by the (unilateral) action of chemical agents : their action is known as chemotaxis {^positive if the movement is towards the source of the stimulus, negative if in the opposite direction). Such movements are sometimes determined merely by the addition of water to, or its withdrawal from, the protoplasm ; the former tending to produce relaxation, and the latter contraction, of the side of the cell upon which the influence is exerted. But the action of most chemical agents is due to their contained electrolytes, and the effects vary according to the electrical charge which the colloid particles of the protoplasm exhibit (compare what is stated on this subject on p. 12 and on p. 79). The direction of movement is also dependent upon the concentration of the salt, and may be reversed with Fig. 111.—Galvanotaxis in Amceba pkoteus. (Verworn.) On the left an amoeba with numerous pseudopodia. On the right the same organism after closure of galvanic current passing from right to left in the upper figure; reversed in the lower. The arrows indicate the direction which the amoeboid movement is taking. increase of concentration.^ Chemotaxis plays an important part in many physio- logical phenomena and is sometimes quite specific in its action. Thus the tendency which many organisms exhibit to seek oxygen (Engelmann), of leucocytes to be attracted towards the products of bacterial activity (Massart, Metschnikoff, Buchner), and the attraction which the ovum exerts upon the spermatozoon,'^ are all striking instances of positive cell-chemotaxis. The influence of unilateral variation of mechanical pressure in stimulating protoplasm, and thus producing movements of protoplasmic organisms—generally towards but sometimes away from the source of stimulation—has been studied by various observers. Such influences have been termed collectively harotaxis {/3dpo<;, pressure) (Verworn), but it is better known under different designations according to the source of the pres- sure—e.g. tliigmotaxis when this is the result of contact with a solid substance, * Greeley, op. cit., see p. 19. ^ Similar terms are chemotropism, thigmotropism, geotropism, See. ^ See Jennings ‘On reactions to stimuli in unicellular organisms (ciliate Infusoria),’Amer. Journ. Phys. xxi. 1897 ; also T. B. Robertson, Trans. Roy. Soc. South Australia, vol. xxix. 1905, and Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol, ii. 1909 (see also p. 79). ^ The susceptibility of spermatozoa to specific chemotactic influence is illustrated in the experiments of Pfeffer, who found the spermatozoids of ferns to be strongly attracted by malic acid, but indifferent to most other reagents. Loew (Sitzungsb. d. Wiener Akad. cxi. 1902) has shown that the uterine mucous membrane has a chemotactic infiueiice upon spermatozoa.