695 riTUITARY BODY Remains of the primitive duct from the buccal cavity are not infrequently found. Civeralli ‘ has described an accessory gland having the same structure as the pars anterior, lying in the periosteiun on the under surface of the basi-sphenoid.- Another accessory body is described by Dandy and Goetsch^ as occurring under the centre of the gland, between the two layers of the dura, and is termed by them the 'parnliy'pophysis. It is an epithelial structure, but differs from the pars anterior of the hypophysis in having no eosinophil cells. The stud}'^ of the structure of the pituitary has acquired considerable interest since it has been shown that extracts made from it produce important influences upon the contraction of the heart and blood-vessels and upon the secretion of the kidneys and mammary gland. ‘ These effects arc obtained only from the posterior portion of the gland, ^.e. the pars intermedia and pars nervosa, and are probably due to the ‘ colloid ’ secretion. Most authorities agree that the gland is essential to life : if removed death results usually within two or three days.'’ According to Cushing, death also occurs if the anterior part alone a h c d e f U ^ Fig. 1001.—Mesial sagittal section of pituitaey body of adult cat; blood-vessels INJECTED WITH CARMINE GELATINE. (Herring.) Photograph. a, optic chiasma; ft, tongue-like process of pars intermedia; c, third ventricle; (Z, anterior lobe; e, pars intermedia lying above neck of posterior lobe ; /, posterior lobe; g, central artery entering posterior lobe at its postero-superior angle; 7/-, large vein lying between nervous substance and epithelial investment of posterior lobe. is removed; in young animals the fatal result is sometimes longer deferred. But Horsley and Handelsmann state that the whole organ may be removed in animals (dogs, cats, monkeys) without the supervention of any adverse symptoms.® ^ Int. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxvi. 1909. ' See also Halberfeld, Ziegler’s Beitr. xlvi. 1909, and Citelli, Anat. Anz. xxxviii. 1911. 5 Amer. Journ. Anat. xi. 1911. ^ Oliver and Schafer, Journ. Physiol, xviii. 1895 (action on blood-vessels); W. H. Howell, Journ. Exper. Med. iii. 1898 (action on heart and blood-vessels); Schiifer and Vincent, Journ. Physiol, xxv. 1899 (action on heart and blood-vessels); Schiifer and Herring, Phil. Trans. B. exeix. 190(i (action on kidnej') ; Ott and Scott, Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. viii. Dec. 1910 (action on mammary secretion); Schafer and Mackenzie, Proc. Roy. Soc. B. Ixxxiv. lilll, and K. Mackenzie, Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol, iv. 1911 (action on mammary secretion). ' Paulesco, Journ. de Physiol. 1907, and ‘ L’hypophyse du cerveau,’1907 ; Harvey Cushing, ‘The Hypophysis Cereljri,’ Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc, liii. 1909; Reford and Harvey Cushing, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. XX. 1909; Crowe, Cushing, and Homans, Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol, ii. 1909, and Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. xxi. 1910 ; Schafer, cit Brit. Med. Journ. Nov. 4, 1911.