478 SWEAT-GLANDS to Bonnet the muscular layer is least developed in those parts of. the skin which are most subject to the tension produced by contraction of ordinary muscles, and in glands which yield a more fluid secretion. Muscular fibres are absent in the duct. The latter is often coiled two or three times before leaving the gland, but its coils are distinguishable from those of the gland proper by the differences above mentioned. The secreting cells of the sweat-glands show the peculiar striated and granular appearances characteristic of most gland-cells ; minute canals or clefts are said to pass from the lumen of the tube between the opposed surfaces of the cells (Kanvier).' Secretory changes in the granular cell-contents have been described (Joseph). In the larger axillary glands Tulke ^ finds two kinds of cell, one dark and granular, the other clear ; these may represent functional modifications of one and the same kind. The cells of the axillary glands contain yellow pigment in granules and flakes ; a similar pigment is seen in their duct-cells. In the larger glands the tube is rarely simple, usually divid- ing by repeated dichotomous branching into smaller tubules, which before end- ing give off short caecal processes ; in rare cases the branches anastomose. On detaching the cuticle from the true skin, after its connexion has been loosened by putrefaction, it usually happens that the cuticular linings of the sweat-ducts get separated from their interior to a certain depth, and are drawn out in the form of short threads attached to the under-surface of the epidermis. The coils of the gland tube are held loosely together by con- nective tissue (fig. 692, d), which may form a sort of capsule round the body of the gland. Each sweat-gland is supplied with a dense cluster of capillary blood- vessels and with nerves; the latter have been traced to the gland-cells (Ostroumoff). Sweat-glands exist most numerously in regions devoid of hair, but they occur in all parts of the skin, and may in some cases open into hair-follicles. According to Krause, about 370 occur on a square centimetre of the palm of the hand, and somewhat fewer on an equal extent of the sole of the foot. He found about 200 per square centimetre on the back of the hand, and about 175 on the forehead, and the front and sides of the neck. On the breast, abdomen, and fore-arm there are about 155 to the square centimetre, while on the lower limbs and the back part of the neck and trunk, the number in the same space is not more than from 60 to 80. As has already been intimated, the size of the sweat-glands also varies. Accord- ing to Krause, the average diameter of the coil is from 0*17 to 0-35 mm. ; but in the axilla he found the greater number to measure from 0*75 to 1-25 mm., and some were nearly 4 mm. in diameter. d gl s Fig. 693.—Section of ceruminous gland of THE EXTERNAL EAR. (Schiifer.) Photo- graph. d, duct of gland, having a spiral course and therefore cut several times ; it is partly filled with cerumen; gl, secreting tubules of gland ; s, extremity of a tubule of a sebaceous gland which extended as far as the base of the ceruminous gland. 1 Cf. Fananas, Rev. trim, microgr. i. 1896. - Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixi. 1903.