142 J^ONE cartilage. The reappearance of the latter seems, however, to depend upon the presence of the perichondrium, this membrane fulfilling similar functions in the regeneration of cartilage to those of the periosteum in the regeneration of bone. Schwalbe found that the cartilage of the rabbit’s ear grows only by apposition at its margins and surfaces, and not interstitially ; but it is certain that the temporary cartilages grow in the manner last mentioned. Probably the rib cartilages grow in two ways—viz. : (1) by interstitial expansion accompanied by multiplication of the cells and increase of the matrix ; (2) by apposition, fresh cartilage being formed under the perichondrium by transformation of its fibrous tissue into cartilage (metaplastic formation). When a cartilage is fractured, as sometimes happens with the rib-cartilages, the broken surfaces become connected by fibrous or areolar tissue, especially dense at their circumference, and often later by a bony clasp.' BONE OB OSSEOUS TISSUE. The bones are the principal organs of support, and the passive instruments of locomotion. Connected together in the skeleton, they form a framework of hard material, which affords attachment to the soft parts, maintains them in their due position, and shelters such as are of delicate structure, giving stability to the whole fabric, and preserving its shape ; and the different pieces of the skeleton being joined moveably together, serve also as levers for executing the movements of the body. While substantially consisting of hard matter, bones in the living body are covered with periosteum and filled with marrow ; they are also pervaded by blood- vessels for their nutrition. Bone has a white colour, with a pink and slightly bluish tint in the living body. Its hardness is well known ; it also possesses a certain degree of toughness and elasticity ; the last property is peculiarly well marked in the ribs. Its specific gravity is from 1'87 to 1'97. Chemical composition.—Bone consists of an earthy and an animal part, intimately commingled ; the former gives hardness and rigidity, the latter tenacity and elasticity to the osseous tissue. The earthy part may be obtained separate by calcination. When a bone is burned in an open fire, it first becomes quite black, like a piece of burnt wood, from the charring of its animal matter ; but if the fire be continued with free access of air, this matter is entirely consumed, and the bone is reduced to a white, brittle, chalk-like substance, still preserving its original shape, but with the loss of about a third of its weight.^ The earthy constituent, therefore, amounts to about two-thirds of the weight of the bone. It consists principally of phosphate of lime, with about a fifth part of carbonate of lime, and much smaller proportions of fluoride of calcium, chloride of sodium, and magnesium salts. The fluoride of calcium occurs in larger quantity in fossil than in recent bones. The animal constituent may be freed from the earthy by steeping a bone in dilute mineral acid. By this process the salts of lime are dissolved out, and a tough flexible substance remains, which, like the earthy part, retains the perfect figure of the original bone in its minutest details ; so that the two are evidently combined in the most intimate manner. The animal part has been termed the 1 The following, besides the papers already referred to, deal with the structure and development of cartilage: G. Retzius, Nord. ined. Ark. 1872; Ogston, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, s. 1875; C. Reyher, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, viii. 1874; A. Vogel, Die Saftbahnen des Hyalinknorpels, Diss., Bern, 1883; E. Zuckerkandl, Sitzungsb. der Wiener Akad. xci. 1885; A. Spina, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1886; R. Kolster, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxix. 1887; C. H. H. Spronck, ‘ Zur Kenntniss der Structur des Hyalinknorpels,’ Anat. Anz. 1887; B. Solger, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxi. 1888, and xxxiv. 1889; Ranvier, Traite technique d’histologie, 1889; H. Apolant, Ueber Faserknorpel, Diss., Berlin, 1890; O. Van der Stricht, Archives de biologie, vii. 1887 and ix. 1890; Hansen, Anat. Hefte, xxvii. 1905. ^ In the compact substance of a femur that had been long buried, Aeby found only IG’5 per cent, of animal matter ; but even fossil bones may contain a very appreciable amount of organic substance.