MUSCLE 182 In the living condition they show, as in the ordinary muscles, alternations of bright and dim stride (fig. 282, C, D). Each bright stria is bisected by a line which is the optical section of a transverse septum {membrane of Krause). These septa thus divide the fibre into a series of segments, known as sarcomeres (Schafer). Each sarcomere can be seen to contain (1) in the middle a more strongly refracting broad disc, the sarcous element (Bowman) ; (2) at either end (next the membrane of Krause) a clear interval occupied by less refracting hyaline substance. With high powers, and after staining by Eollett’s method, the sarcous element may be made out to be composed of a sarcous substance, which stains deeply, and is pierced by short tubular canals which extend from the clear interval as far ,as the middle of the disc (figs. 281, C, 283 and 284) ; these canals give it a longitudinally striated appearance. Fine longi- tudinal strise, which appear to be due to delicate extensions of the sarcous substance, may also, under favourable circumstances, be seen traversing the hyaline substance and reaching the membrane of Krause (fig. 281, C). If the sarcostyle is extended, the sarcous elements separate into two parts, with an interval between them (fig. 281, B) ; this median clear interval corresponds with the line of Hensen (p. 176). Conversely, if the muscle is contracted the sarcous elements tend to encroach on the clear intervals and approach the membranes of Krause ; and at the same time they are swollen up by the passage of the hyaline substance into their pores (fig. 284) ; the result of this is that the A B Fig. 283.—Isolated gold-stained saecous ELEMENTS OF THE WING-MUSCLES OF WASP SHOWN ON THE FLAT AND IN PKO- FiLE. Untouched photograph. Magnified 870 diameters. Opposite a two sarcous elements are seen on the flat; one is comiilete, the other one is broken. Opposite b several sarcous elements are seen in profile. The pores in the sarcous elements which are seen as clear circles in a appear in h as minute tubercles which extend only to the middle of the thickness of each sarcous element. Fig. 284.—Diagbam of a sabcomeek IN A MODEBATELY EXTENDED CONDI- TION A, AND IN A CONTEACTED CON- DITION B. (Schafer.) K, K, membranes of Krause; H, plane of Hensen; S.E., poriferous sarcous element. B D e e ( e ' e I -/% y^-?n ') § -m m ?n m m e-( h }bc ii£ m /■be m \ 7/ 7/1 )'-6c >5c 'V 7t 7H 771 - )-bc lA Fig. 282.—Fibbils of wing-muscles of Hydbophilus PICEUS. (Eanvier.) Highly magnified. The fibres are in different conditions of contraction and extension from A, most contracted, to D, most extended, m, membranes of Krause; li, line of Hensen; e, sarcous substance ; he, hyaline substance. sarcomeres are bulged out at their middle and contracted at their ends (figs. 281, 282, A, and 284, B). This bulging condition of the contracted sarcomere is, however, not always observed; frequently it retains a cylindrical form in the