STRUCTURE OF CELL 16 still more distinct after the protoplasm has been fixed by reagents (fig. 18). They undoubtedly indicate a differentiation of structure, for they are most frequent in specialised cells, such as those of columnar epithelium (fig. 19), cells of secreting glands (fig. 20), and cells of ciliated epithelium (fig. 21), in all of which fibrils traverse the cell-protoplasm and are permanent features of its structure. A still more complete fibrillar differentiation is found in the highly specialised cells which form the nervous and muscular tissues (figs. 22, 23, and 24), in which many of the features of ordinary cell- protoplasm have become com- pletely masked, along with assumption of the peculiar modifications of its functions which has taken place. All these are to be regarded as instances of fixed differen- tiation of a fibrillar charac- ter ; but in many cells— ^ especially those in process yjzc Fig. 18.—Cell with badially disposed fibbils fbom the INTESTINAL EPITHELIUM OF A WOBM. (Camoy.) membrane of the cell; ??c, protoplasm of the cell j myi^ membrane of the nucleus; achromatic substance of the nucleus coagulated in the form of a network, with convoluted chromatin filaments, contracted into the centre. Fig. 19.—A columnab epi- thelium - CELL, SHOWING MASS OF FIBBILS (CYTO- mitome) within the cyto- plasm. (M. Heidenhain.) Fig. 20.—Pancbeas cells OF FBOG, SHOWING PABA- NUCLEUS AND CHONDBOMI- tome fibbils fobmed fbom MiTOCHONDBiA. (Gurwitsch, after Matthews.) Fig. 21.—A ciliated epithe- lium-cell OF A MOLLUSC. (Engelmann.) of division — a linear or fibrillar arrangement of the protoplasm appears which is temporary only, and which disappears again after the phase of activity which accompanies it has ceased to be exhibited (fig. 11). Yet other cells— and these are indeed so numerous in the Metazoa that the structure has been supposed by some to be constant in animal cells—exhibit an appearance within their protoplasm of lines radiating from (or converging towards) a specially differentiated particle known as the centriole (fig. 25). These lines may be