240 STRUCTURE OF GANGLIA slieatli enveloping a single nerve-fibre is named sheath of Henle; it has the same structure as the perineurium, but with fewer lamellae, and it encloses a prolongation of endoneurium. It takes a conspicuous part in the formation of the special organs in which nerve-fibres terminate, such as the Pacinian corpuscles and end-bulbs on many sensory nerves. On the other hand, as has already been intimated, a large nerve may consist of several funiculi interlacing with one another in their course. Between the funiculi and also surrounding the whole nerve lies a con- siderable amount of loose areolar tissue, which conducts to the nerve the larger blood-vessels which are distributed to it, and also contains lymphatic vessels, and here and there sensory nerve- the nerve-trunk itself and terminating in end-bulbs.' To this loose connective tissue outside and between the funiculi the name e'pineurium has been applied. It is continuous with the surrounding areolar tissue and forms a sort of tunica adventitia to the whole nerve. It often contains a large number of fat-cells (fig. 374). The sympathetic nerve-trunks have the same general structure as the cerebro-spinal, but the funicular sheaths are thinner (fig. 376). In the section of the main nerves there is a considerable proportion of fine medullated fibres amongst the non-medullated, while in the peripheral branches of the sympathetic the relative number of medullated fibres is greatly reduced. The optic nerves have a special structure, being enclosed by extensions of the brain membranes and divided up into angular bundles and not into cylindrical funiculi enclosed by perineurium (see Neurology, Part II., p. 220). The amount of connective tissue in a nerve-trunk is altogether considerable. Ellison - found in the median nerve of the horse 63 per cent, of connective tissue; of the remaining 37 per cent, only 9 parts were occupied by axis-cylinder, the rest being medullary sheath.^ The splenic nerve gave 61 per cent, of connective tissue and 39 per cent, nerve-fibre substance. STRUCTURE OF GANGLIA. Ganglia (figs. 377 to 379) are constructed somewhat similarly to the nerves upon which they occur, being enclosed by a firm connective-tissue covering which sends septa of the same tissue into the interior of the ganglion. But the distinctive funicular sheath or perineurium of the nerve-bundles is not seen in their progress through the ganglion, the bundles being much broken up as they enter it and gradually losing themselves amongst the groups of nerve- cells. Each cell of a ganglion is invested with a nucleated sheath continuous with the neurolemma of the nerve-fibres (fig. 378), and, in the case of the sympathetic ganglia, with sheaths which invest all the branches of the cell for a short distance (fig. 352). In the cerebro-spinal ganglia of vertebrates the nerve- cells are bipolar or unipolar ; in the ganglia of the autonomic system they are multipolar, and in some animals they commonly contain two nuclei. In man the nerve-cells of the spinal ganglia and of the corresponding cerebral ganglia are ’ Horsley, Brit. Med. Jonrn. 1884. See also Frees, Arch, slaves de biol. iv. 1888. - Journ. Physiol, xxxix. lUlO. 5 Cf. however Donaldson A' Hoke, op. cit. fibres {nervi nervorum) for the supply of Fig. 376.—Section of thoracic sym- pathetic CORD OF CAT. Osmic pre- paration. (Fischer.) The nerve is composed in almost equal parts of fine medullated fibres (3, 4) de- rived from ventral spinal roots, and of non-medullated fibres (5) derived from the cells of the sympathetic ganglia; 2, perineurium ; 1, epineurium with fat- cells stained black.