CUTIS VERA 455] are not absent, clasmocytes being especially numerous in the deep subcutaneous tissue ; here also mast-cells may occur, in some parts in considerable numbers. Wander-cells are found in all parts of the cutis, and may even penetrate into the deeper layers of the epidermis. Pigmented cells, although occurring in the cutis vera of the negro, are in the white races con- stantly found only near the anus; the deeper layer of the epidermis also contains pigment in this situation. Abnormally branched cells containing pigment occur in the white races in the bronzed patches which are seen in Addison’s disease ; here also there is pigment in the epithelium. It is possible that the branched pigmented cells in these cases are wander-cells conveying the pigment-granules to or from the epidermis.' Towards the attached surface the texture of the cutis vera becomes much more open, with larger meshes, in which lobules of adipose tissue and the sweat-glands are lodged (fig. 661) ; thus the fibrous part of the skin, becojning more and more lax and more mixed with adipose tissue, blends gradually with the subcutaneous areolar tissue. In consequence of this gradual transition of the cutis vera into the sub- jacent tissue, its thickness cannot be assigned with precision. As a general rule, it is thicker on the posterior aspect of the head, neck, and trunk, than in front; and thicker on the outer than on the inner side of the limbs. As well as the cuticle, it is remarkably thick on the soles of the feet and palms of the hands. The skin of the female is thinner than that of the male. Bundles of plain muscular tissue are distributed in the substance of the derma wherever hairs occur ; their connexion with the latter will be afterwards explained. Plain muscular bundles are also found in the subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, of the penis (glans and prepuce), of the perineum, and of the areola of the nipple, as well as in the nipple ptself. They commonly join to form reticular layers, attached to the under-surface of the corium. For convenience of description it is not unusual to speak of the derma as con- sisting of two layers, the ‘ reticular ' and the ‘ papillary.'’ The reticular, the more deeply seated, takes no part in the construction of the papillae, but contains in its meshes hair-follicles, sweat-glands, and some adipose tissue. The papillary is ex- tended to form the papillae, and receives the upper portions of the hair-follicles and gland-ducts, together with the terminal expansion of the blood-vessels. The cutis vera is generally said to measure from ^^th of an inch to nearly one-eighth of an inch (•5 to 3 millimetres); but, as has been pointed out by Warren, that on the back and shoulders may be as thick as 5 or 6 mm. Here it is almost entirely formed of dense anastomosing bundles of connective tissue,^on the one hand sending down fibrous prolongations through the subjacent panniculus adiposus, and on the other hand being penetrated obliquely by columns of fat-cells, which extend from that layer to the bases of the small hair-follicles, and conduct blood-vessels to these and to the surface of the skin. Superficial marking's.—The free surface of the cutis vera is marked in various places with larger or smaller furrows, which also afiect the superjacent cuticle. The larger are seen opposite the flexures of the joints, as those so well known in the palm of the hand and at the joints of the fingers. The finer furrows intersect each other at various angles, and may be seen almost all over the surface ; they are very conspicuous on the back of the hands. Fine curvilinear ridges, with inter- vening furrows, mark the skin of the palm and sole ; these correspond in general arrangement to the rows of papillae, to be immediately described : they form ^ See on the pigment-cells, Waldeyer, Virch. Arch. 1870; Schafer, reported in Greeuhow’s Croonian Lectures on Addison’s Disease, 1875, p. 137; Ehrmann, Viertelj. f. Dermat, 1885; Unna, Monatschr. f. prakt. Derm. iv. 1885 ; Karg, Arch. f. Anat. 1888, Kiilliker, Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool. xlv. 1887, and Gewebelehre, 1889 ; List, Anat. Anz. iv. 1889 ; Rabl, Ergebn. d. Anat. vi.l89(! (with literature to that date); Meirowsky, Monatschr. f. pract. Derm. xlii. 190(3, and Zeitschr. f. Pathol, ii. 1909. Meirowsky claims to have obtained pigment-formation in minute excised portions of skin, kept for some days under aseptic conditions in a moist chamber at body temperature.