148 EONE more correctly, they are flattened and extended conformably with the lamellae ; for when the bone is cut longitudinally (fig. 234), their sections still appear fusiform and are still more lengthened out in the direction of the lamellae. The canaliculi, on the other hand, pass across the lamellae, and they communicate with those proceeding from the next range of lacunae, so as to connect the little cavities with each other ; and thus, since the canaliculi of the most central range open into the Haversian canal, a system of continuous passages is established by these minute tubes and their lacunae, along which fluid may be conducted from the Haversian canal through its series of surrounding lamellae. In like manner the canaliculi open into the great medullary canal, and into the cavities of the cancellated texture ; for in the thin bony parietes of these cavities lacunae are also contained ; they exist, indeed, in all parts of the bony tissue. The canaliculi which radiate outwards from the lacunae near the periphery of the concentric Haversian systems do not as a rule communicate with those of the neighbouring Haversian system, but bend round and are joined to one another ; there are, however, exceptions to this rule. Cells of hone.—As first shown by Virchow, each lacuna is occupied by a flattened nucleated cell, which sends branches along the canaliculi. Later observers have been able to detach the proper wall of the lacuna and its appertaining canaliculi after decalcification, and to obtain it separate with its included corpuscle (fig. 232). It can scarcely be doubted that the protoplasm of the nucleated corpuscle takes an important share in the nutritive process in bone, and very probably serves both to modify the nutritive fluid supplied from the blood and to further its distribution through the lacunar and canalicular system of the bony tissue. Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with those of ordinary connective tissue ; they represent the lamellar variety of connective-tissue cell: to this it may be added that the enclosing lacunae and canaliculi are to be looked upon as corresponding to the cell-spaces of that tissue. Apertures in the lamellce.—With a little pains thin films may be peeled ofl in a longitudinal direction from a piece of bone that has been decalcified. These for the most part consist of several lamellae, as may be seen at the edge, where the different layers are usually torn unequally, and some extend farther than others. Examined in this way, under the microscope, the lamellae are seen to be perforated with fine apertures placed at very short distances apart. These apertures were described by Deutsch; ^ they appear to be the transverse sections of the canaliculi already described, and their relative distance and position accord sufficiently with this explanation. According to this view, therefore, the canaliculi might (in a certain sense) be conceived to result from the apposition of a series of perforated plates, the apertures of each plate corresponding to those of the plates contiguous with it; or they might be compared to holes bored to some depth in a straight or crooked direction through the leaves of a book, in which case it is plain that the perforations of the adjoining leaves would correspond ; it being understood, however, that the passages thus formed are most likely bounded by proper parietes. The apertures now referred to must be distinguished from larger holes seen in some lamellae, which give passage to the perforating fibres to be mentioned farther on. ' De Penitiori Ossium Structura, 1884, p. 17, fig. G. Fig. 232.—A bone-cell isolated AND HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (After Joseph.) a, proper wall of the lacuna, shown at a part where the corpuscle has shrunk away from it.