460 THE SKIN in considerable amount, and according to v. Brunn to the fibrous structure of the cells, which are undergoing keratinisation. The part of the corium to which the nail is attached, and by which in fact it is generated, is named the matrix * or nail- bed (fig. 669). This portion of the skin is highly vascular, and ridged longitudinally over the greater part of its extent. In front, where the free edge of the nail begins to project, the ridges give place to large papillae, which are continued forwards into a thickening of the ordinary epidermis. Posteriorly the matrix forms the crescentic- groove already noticed (deep in the middle but getting shallower at the sides) which lodges the root of the nail. The matrix is closely attached, by means of dense connective-tissue bundles having a vertical arrangement, to the periosteum covering the ungual process of the ter- minal phalanx. The part of the matrix nearest the groove is covered with low papillae having no regular arrangement. These papillae become less marked and eventually disappear at about the middle of the lunula, the surface of the nail-bed here becoming flat for a certain space. The remaining surface of the matrix and nail-bed, situated in front of this and supporting the body of the nail, is marked with longitudinal ridges, more numerous but small and low behind, and becoming prominent in front, where, however, they ■r.m. Fig. 670.—Section across the nail and NAIL-BED. (Heitzmann.) r, ridges of cutis in section; o\m., rete mucosum; n, nail. a Fig. 671.—Section through end of finger of human embryo at the time of the COMMENCEMENT OF FORMATION OF THE NAIL. (Kdlliker.) ' Notice the ossification of the terminal phalanx beginning at the tip of the cartilage. In the thickened epidermis over this the commencing nail is seen as a dark line. are fewer in number. These ridges may be cleft at their summits ; those towards i the sides are directed obliquely. The ridges fit into corresponding furrows on the * under-surface of the nail-epidermis. ' The term matrix is sometimes confined to the posterior part of the nail-bed ; sometimes {e.g. by V. Brunn) to the rete mucosum of the epidermis of the part from which the root of the nail actually grows.