164 BONE corpuscles. The cartilage-cells close to the line of demarcation are generally much shrunken and irregular in form and show no evidence of division. It may be remarked that this is also the case when, as sometimes happens, they have not disappeared before the irruption of subperiosteal tissue, but persist untouched within the remains of the calcified cartilage-matrix (see fig. 248, c). According to Dantschakoff,' some of the cartilage-cells disappear, whilst others divide mitotically, and the daughter-cells remain in the marrow as stroma-cells. But Retzius - was only able to find mitoses amongst the cartilage-cells at the ends of the cell-columns farthest from the advancing ossification—i.e. in the place where growth of cartilage is taking place. As ossification advances towards the ends of the bone, the portion as yet Fig. 251.—Small poktion of a section OF DEVELOPING BONE, TAKEN AT THE JUNCTION OF THE BONE AND CARTILAGE, AND EXAMINED IN THE FRESH CONDITION. (Sharpey.) Magnified about 140 diameters. a, &, two of the new-formed osseous tubes or arcolaj, with a few shrunken cartilage- cells lying in them; c, cartilage-cells near the ossifying surface, large and clear and filling the cavities in the matrix; on the left of the figure some of them are shrunken. Fig. 252.—Part of a longitudinal section of THE DEVELOPING FEMUR OF THE RABBIT. (From Klein and Noble Smith.) Drawn under a magnifying power of 350 diameters. a, rows of flattened cartilage-cells; h, degen- erating cartilage-cells close to the advancing bone ; the matrix between them is already calcified; c, (1, formed bone, the osseous trabecula? being covered with osteoblasts (e), except here and there, where a giant-cell or osteoclast (/), is seen, eroding parts of the trabeculie; g, h, cartilage-cells which have become shrunken and irregular in shape. From the middle of the figure downwards the dark trabecula?, which are formed of calcified cartilage-matrix, are becoming covered with secondary osseous substance deposited by the osteoblasts. The vascular loops at the extreme limit of the bone are well shown, as well as the abrupt disappearance of the cartilage- cells. cartilaginous continues to grow at the same time, expanding in every dimension. The part already osseous increases also in circumference ; fresh bone being con- tinually deposited in the subperiosteal membranous tissue outside that which is first formed on the surface of the cartilage (figs. 248, 253). The subperiosteal ^ Arch, f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiv. 1909. - Biol. For. Forh. i. 1888.