NEUVE-llEGENEIlATION 247 from the disintegrated substance of the medullary sheath. The fatty globules which result from the degenerating medullary sheath stain much more intensely with osmic acid, after fixation with bichromate of potash, than the unaltered myelin. On this fact depends Marchi's method for tracing degenerated fibres.' These degenerative changes seem to occur almost simultaneously along the whole lenoth of the nerve. O In the nerves to voluntary muscles the end-plate is said to be the part first affected. The motor end- ings undergo degeneration earlier than the sensorv «/ endings in muscle, and their regeneration also takes place sooner.'^ In the immediate neigh- bourhood of the section the appearances are somewhat modified by the escaj^e of myelin from the cut ends of the nerve-fibre, and the infil tration of blood and lymph into the interior of the ends thus emptied of their contents. This change must, of course, occur in the central stump of the nerve as well as in the perij^heral cut end: it does not often extend beyond the first node. Apart from such traumatic modification, true degenerative changes do not occur in the end of the nerve which is still in connexion with the centre, although pro- liferation of the nucleus in the first and second internodes near the cut may take place. The central cut end of the axis-cylinder does not become ostensibly altered; it undergoes a slight swelling, preparatory in all probability to the renewed growth by which the regenera- tion of the fibre is effected. Fig. 384.—Commencing outgbowths from axis-cylinders IN STUMP OF CUT NERVE. (Cajal.) A, an axon bifurcating: its branches, which show clearly a fibrillar structure, pass on either side of a group of sheath- nuclei, C; B, another axis-cylinder with its end frayed into fibrils : this has not yet begun to grow out; D, an axis-cylinder, one branch of which has begun to grow upwards into the stump, instead of downwards towards the periphery ; E, a growing axis- cylinder ending in a bulbous enlargement; F, an empty nerve- sheath ; G, a fine axon growing into wound (with bulbous end); h, c, (I, myelin fragments escaped from injured fibres; e, blood- clot. Regeneration proceeds but slowly. Up to the twenty-eighth day after the section, or even later than this, there is still no trace of the new nerve-fibres in the peripheral part of the nerve. With the exception of a few fibres which, for some reason not well understood (probably because they are derived from an adjacent nerve which has not been cut), have not undergone degeneration, nothing is to be seen in a section of the nerve at this period, except the sheaths of the old fibres, filled with clear ^ Riv. sper. di fren. 1885. On the chemical decomposition products of the medullary sheath of degenerating nerve-fibres, see Halliburton, Croonian Lectures, Brit. Med. Journ. 1901. - G. C. Huber, Amer. Journ. Physiol, iii. 1900.