362 LYMPH-VESSELS view cannot be adopted, although some authors believe that intercommunicating spaces such as he describes may play a part in the formation of peripheral lymph-channels (see next page). In mammals the lymph-vessels arise as six lymphatic sacs, one pair of which is found anteriorly in the neck, and another pair posteriorly in the groin. In addition to these paired sacs, two unpaired sacs occur—namely, one at the root of the mesentery and another behind the aorta ; this last sac becomes the receptaculum chyli. The anterior pair of sacs is developed about the level of the fifth cervical nerve along the dorso-lateral surface of the post- and pre-cardinal veins, opposite the duct of Cuvier (fig. 550). The sacs begin to appear in pig-embryos of 6*5 mm. ; they are fully formed in 16 mm. embryos. They correspond in situation to the anterior lymph-hearts of the lower vertebrata. In older embryos the anterior lymph- sac gradually differentiates into lymph- nodules. The mesenteric sac arises according to Baetjer from veins of the renal anastomoses,* while the sac which becomes the receptaculum chyli buds out dorsally to the aorta and adjacent to the azygos veins. Subse- quently the mesenteric sac and the receptaculum chyli join and become connected with the thoracic duct, which has developed in connexion with the azygos veins. The general principle on which the sacs are formed is probably as follows (see diagram, fig. 551) : In the regions where the lymph- sacs subsequently make their appear- ance, plexuses of small venous vessels, which open into a main vein (fig. 551, a), become formed. These plex- uses become detached from the main vein and reduced to a smaller number of closed spaces lined with endothelium and filled with blood (fig. 551, b and c). These spaces fuse together to form the lymph-sac (fig. 551, c), which is at first filled with blood and is not in communi- cation with the main vein. Later a connexion forms between the sac and the vein (fig. 551, d); into this the blood, which was contained within the sac, passes. Soon afterwards the sac gives rise by budding to true lymph-vessels (fig. 551, e). The latter start from the lymph-sac and invade the region of the embryo which adjoins the lymph-sac (figs. 552, 553). In this way each half of the embryo develops (1) an anterior lymph-sac from which the lymphatics of the corresponding head and chest region grow out, (2) a posterior sac from which those of the inguinal and leg region are formed, and (3) two unpaired mesial sacs, of which the retroperitoneal gives rise to the lymph-vessels of the intestine,- the other becoming the receptaculum chyli. ' Anat. Record, ii. 1908; Amer. Journ. Anat. viii. 1908. C. F. Silvester (Verliandl. d. anat. Gesellsch., Anat. Anz. 1910) describes a permanent lyinph-veiu-connexion at the level of the renal veins in South American monkeys. - Heuer, Anat. Record, ii. 1908 Amer. Journ. Anat. ix. 1909. Fig. 552.—Composite diagram of the spreading OF THE superficial LYMPHATICS IN THE EMBRYO PIG. (Sabin.) A, extent of area in an embryo 18 mm. long; B, extent of area in an embryo of 20 mm.; C, C, extent of areas in an embryo of 30 mm.; D, D, extent of areas in an embryo of 40 mm.