ADIPOSE TISSUE 128 Adipose tissue is copiously supplied with blood-vessels (hg. 209). The larger branches of these pass into the fat-lumps, where they run between the lobules and subdivide, till at length a little artery and vein are sent to each small lobule (fig. 206, a, v), dividing into a network of capillary vessels, which pass between the vesicles in all directions, supporting and connecting them. The lymphatics of the fat are in close relation to the blood-vessels, accompanying and occasionally completely enclosing them as they enter the lobule. No sensory nerves seem to terminate in this tissue, although its blood- vessels receive nerve-fibres, and nerves destined for other textures may pass through it. Accordingly, it has been observed that, unless when such traversing nervous twigs happen to be encountered, a puncturing instrument may be carried through the adipose tissue without occasioning pain. Development. — The fat first appears in the human embryo about the fourteenth week of intra-uterine life. It is deposited in the form of minute granules or droplets in certain cells of the connective tissue (figs. 210, 211,/,/^) ; these droplets increase in size, and eventually run together, so as to form one large drop in each cell. By further deposition the cell becomes swollen out to a size far beyond that which it possessed originally, and its protoplasm remains as a delicate envelope surrounding the fat-drop. By the end of the fifth month the fat-cells have largely increased in number, and have become collected into small groups. The deposit of fat within the cells is preceded and accompanied by the formation of a rich network of capillary blood-vessels (fig. 211). According to E. T. Bell,^ the formation of fat is always preceded by the appearance of a peculiar open-meshed fibrillar connective tissue, with branched cells, which he terms the ‘ pre-adipose tissue.’ Fat may be deposited in the cells either whilst still in the branched con- dition or after the branches have disappeared and the cells have become rounded. From the large number of basiphil ‘ mast-cells ’ (see p. 108) which accumulate at places where fat is in process of formation, it has been thought that these cells are especially concerned in the development of this tissue. The appearance of granules, probably of proteid nature, in connective- tissue cells prior to the deposition of fat within them was described by Lowe,- and was also noticed in the ninth edition of this work (1882). Poljakoff, in the white rat,^ has also described the presence of a large number of granular cells in Fig. 211.—Deposition of fat in connective-tissue cells. (Scliiifer.) f, a cell with a few isolated fat-droplets in its protoplasm; a cell with a single large and several minute drops ; f', fusion of two large drops; c/, granular cell, not yet exhibiting any fat- deposition ; c.t., flat connective-tissue corpuscle; c, c, network of capillaries. Fig. 210.—Deposition of fat in con- nective-tissue CELLS OF THE NEW- BOBN RAT. (Schafer.) f,/', fat-cells ; h, cell containing hsemoglobin. ’ Amer. Journ. Anat. ix. 1909. - Arch. f. Anat. 1878. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat xxxii. 1888.