SECRETING GLANDS 425 the case may be, is entirely formed and poured out upon the surface by glands which lie beneath the mucous membrane and send their secretion to the surface by ducts which penetrate the epithelium. The principal externally secreting glands are : (A) Glands of the alimentary canal, viz. : (1) the small mucous or serous glands which occur under the mucous membrane throughout the whole extent of the nose, mouth, throat, and gullet, and in the trachea and bronchi; (2) the salivary glands, including the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual in man, and the infraorbital and retrolingual in animals ; (3) the gastric glands ; (4) the glands of Brunner and the crypts of Lieberkiihn of the small intestine ; (5) the liver ; (6) the pancreas ; (7) the crypt-like glands of the large intestine ; (8) the small mucous glands of the anus. The lungs may also be reckoned amongst the glands which open into the alimentary canal, for they resemble secreting glands both in the general features of their structure and in their mode of development. (B) Glands of the urino-generative apparatus, viz.: (1) the kidneys ; (2) the ovaries and testicles; (3) the small glands of the uterus; (4) Cowper’s glands; (5) the glands of Bartholin; (6) the seminal vesicles ; (7) the glands of the prostate and urethra. (C) Glands, the secretion of which is conducted to the surface of the skin, viz.: (1) the sudoriparous or sweat-glands; (2) the sebaceous glands; (3) the Meibomian glands of the eyelids ; (4) the ceruminous glands of the external auditory canal; (5) the mammary glands ; (6) the lacrymal glands. Modifications in form of the secreting* surface.—secreting apparatus effectual for the purpose it is destined to fulfil may be said essentially to consist of a layer of secreting cells covering a free surface, whilst a layer of finely ramified blood-vessels is generally spread out close to the attached ends of the cells, with sometimes a basement-membrane between the two. But whilst tlie structure may remain essentially the same, the configuration of the secreting surface presents various modifications in different secreting organs. In some cases the secreting surface is plain, as in various parts of the serous, synovial, and mucous membranes, which may be looked on as examples of comparatively simple forms of secreting apparatus ; but, in other instances, and particularly in the special secretory organs named glands, the surface of the secreting membrane is variously folded and involved. An obvious effect of this complication is to increase the extent of the secreting surface in a secreting organ within a given bulk, and thus augment the quantity of secretion yielded by it. No connexion has been clearly shown to exist J^etween the quality of the secretion and the particular configuration, either internal or external, of the organ ; on the other hand, we know that the same kind of secretion that is derived from a complex organ in one animal may be produced by an apparatus of most simple form in another. There are two principal modes by which the surface of a secreting membrane is increased in extent, namely, by rising or protruding in form of a prominent fold or some otherwise shaped projection, or by retiring, in form of a recess. The first-mentioned mode of increase, that by protrusion, is not the one most generally followed in the body; still it is not without example, and as instances may be cited the Haversian fringes of the synovial membranes and the choroid plexus of the brain. In these cases, the membrane assumes the form of projecting folds, which, for the sake of further increase of surface, may be again plaited and complicated, or cleft and fringed, at their borders. The augmentation of the secreting surface by recession or inversion of the mem- brane, in the form of a cavity, is, with few exceptions, that generally adopted in the