24 STRUCTURE OF CELL the various steps of transformation of the protein granules into mucin granules can be still more readily followed.' Other secreting cells offer a similar illustration. The granules of cells are not confined to the protoplasm; others may, by appropriate fixation and staining, be demonstrated also in the nucleus. In the protoplasm the granules probably lie in the hyaloplasm ; the corresponding part of the karyoplasm can also be shown to contain granules (see p. 35 and fig. 68, B). The cell-granules are sometimes uniformly diffused through its substance, some- times more accumulated at one part than at another. There is evidence to show that the granules of protoplasm are formed under the influence of the nucleus, and that the substance of which they are composed may even be extruded from the nucleus. This matter will be again alluded to when the functions of the nucleus and nucleolus are discussed. The granules have received various names,- that by which they are most usually designated being microsomes, distinguishable into cyto- and karyo-microsomes. Certain of these granules appear to be specialised in connection with the forma- / Fig. 38.—Gbanules in fat- absorbing cells’ of frog’s intestine beginning to be TRANSFORMED INTO FAT-PAR- TICLES. (Krelil.) The fat droplets are stained black with osmic acid. Fig. 39.—Cells from the testicle of the molse in PROCESS OF transformation INTO SPERMATOZOA. (Benda.) The ‘ mitochondria ’ are darkly stained and are seen in the successive stages (« to g) to be arranging themselves so as to constitute the spiral filament of the spermatozoon (h). tion of contractile fibrils and other active portions of the cell-protoplasm ; these can be stained distinctively, and from their tendency to produce fibrillse have been named mitochondria (fig. 39).^ Sometimes the fibrils which they form are collected into a spherical mass, usually near the nucleus, and apparently bearing some relation to its metabolic activity. The names 'paranucleus (p. 16 and fig. 20) and chondromitome have been applied to this structure.^ ^ Schiifer, Quain’s Anatomy, 10th edit. 1891. - Bioblasts (Altmann), plasomes (Wiesner), plasmasomes (Aniold), microsomes (Hanstein), proto- meres (M. Heidenhain); these names are not, however, all strictly synonymous. Until more is known regarding the iiarticles in question, it is questionable whether anything is gained by the employment of another term than ‘ granule.’ ^ From fx'iTos, thread, and xopSpos, grain. Benda, Ergebn. d. Anat. xii. 1902 ; F. Meves, Anat. Anz. xxxi. 1907, xxxiv. 1909, and Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxii. i908. Meves designates these specialised granules chondrosovies or chondroconta. He describes their occurrence in embryonic cells, and considers that they may share with the chromosomes of the nucleus the functions of hereditary transmission. See also J. Duesberg, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxi. 1908, and Anat. Anz. xxxiv. 1909 (Verhandl. d. Anat. Ges.) and XXXV. 1910. ' The relations of the chondromitome to the metabolic activity of the nucleus have been studied in the pancreas cell by Mathews (Journ. Morph, xv. 1899, Suppl.).