73 CILIA a special relation to the cilia, since Gurwitscli found in cross-sections of such cells that there were only 30 to 40 rootlet fibrils in each cell, as against 200 to 300 basal particlesd The ^ rootlets ’ are not by any means found in all ciliated cells , they may be seen, not very distinctly, in the ciliated epithelium of the air-passages of mammals. Durino: the life of a ciliated cell the cilia are in constant activity; bending over and recovering themselves many times a second in mammals. So rapid is the movement that the action of the individual cilia cannot be seen except when it begins to slacken, which may be caused by cooling the preparation or may accompany commencing death of the cells. But the general effect of the whole movement can be seen with a low power of the microscope, and has been aptly compared to the rhythmic wave-like motion which is produced by the wind upon a cornfield. The movement does, in fact, begin at one part of the ciliated surface, and gradually traverses the whole surface in the form of a wave, and this is succeeded by others at regular intervals (fig. 115). The movement manifests itself in detached cells and may continue for hours or days : it is therefore independent of the rest of the tissue or of the nervous system; it may even be seen in cilia which are attached to a separated portion of cell- protoplasm.’^ It is never observed in completely detached cilia from the Metazoa, although in some Protozoa such independent action has been described. The development of cilia has been studied in Protozoa and Metazoa. The cilia first appear in Protozoa as little pseudopodium-like processes, which are not withdrawn like ordinary pseudopodia but remain permanent and tend to become gradually longer. Almost as soon as they appear they exhibit movements, but these are at first slow and irregular in character ; later they become more regular, rapid and rhythmical. In some Protozoa the movements remain irregular and more or less independent of one another, as if the cilia in these cases retained to some extent the amoeboid character of pseudopodia. It is probably cilia of this nature which continue to exhibit movements after complete detachment. The analogy with the movements of pseudopodia is further shown by the fact that in certain Protozoa, e.g.—in Artodiscus saltans (fig. 116) as described by Penard,^ and Camptonema nutans (fig. 117) as described by Schaudinn,^ the filiform pseudopodia may take on lashing Fig. 114.—Ciliated cell, from THE INTESTINE OF A MOLLUSC. (Engelmann.) Fig. 115.—Diagram to show the manner in which the ciliary movement passes IN WAVES OVER A CILIATED SURFACE. (Vei’WOru.) movements, even at quite a rapid rate, afterwards resuming the ordinary amoeboid character of their movements. In another form (Multicilia lacustris) (fig. 118), where the processes are permanent and are therefore to be regarded as cilia, they exhibit so slow a movement that the ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. 1900. - Provided the basal corpuscles remain attached (K. Peter, Anat. Anz. xv. 1899). ^ Arch. f. Protistenkunde, 1903. ‘ Sitzungsb. Preuss. Akad. 1898.