MAMMAEY GLAND 482 long columnar cells with their nuclei arranged alternately at two levels : the cells, however, form only a single layer. Outside the epithelium is a connective-tissue coat the white fibres of which run for the most part circularly, the elastic fibres longitudinally. The ducts branch again and again, and ultimately end in groups of saccular or tubulo-saccular alveoli (fig. 697). The alveoli in the virgin gland are completely filled with polyhedral epi- thelium-cells. The wall of the alveolus is formed by a thick basement-membrane {halo of C. Langer); outside this is a stratum of stellate intercommunicating con- nective-tissue cells. In the actively secreting gland the appearance of the alveoli is very different. They now appear as distended saccules with large lumina, separated Fig. 698.—Section of mammary gland, human, in full activity, (v. Ebner.) Magnified 110 diameters. a, a', a", alveoli variously cut, and distended by secretion ; g, g', commencing ducts; i, connective tissue. from adjoining acini by relatively thin partitions of connective tissue (fig. 698). The clear basement-membrane of the alveolus is no longer visible, and the lining epithe- lium, which appears to be in contact wfith the stellate cells, is flattened or cubical according to the amount of distension of the gland with milk.^ The cavities of the alveoli and all the ducts are occupied by milk, the fatty globules of which lie free in the fluid filling the alveoli (fig. 699). Similar globules may be seen occupying the inner zone of the epithelium-cells of the alveoli; these inner zones may indeed in some cells be so filled with fat-globules as to project into the alveolus considerably beyond the general line of the epithelium (fig. 700). There is little doubt that the globules thus formed in the cells are set free by being passed into the lumen of the alveolus—possibly by the dehiscence of the inner zone. The first milk formed {colostrum) contains, besides free fat-globules, others which are enclosed vithin protoplasmic cells 5 such cells—known as colostrum-corpuscles are also seen v ithin Schiifer, article ‘ Mammary Gland,’ in Advanced Text-book of Physiology, 1898. 1