ELASTIC TISSUE 113 The cells of tendon remain of course unstained when the tissue is treated with nitrate of silver, and exposed to light, and they then appear as chains of white patches on the brown ground (fig. 183). (See also Plate opposite p. 102.) Tendon contains a few elastic fibres, most of which lie between the larger bundles, but some between the smallest and in close contact with the tendon-cells.^ Fig. 184.—Pavement-epithelium (endothelium) from the surface of an aponeurosis TREATED WITH NITRATE OF SILVER. (Schilfer.) The cells at the surface of many tendons and aponeuroses form a continuous epithelioid layer. When treated by the silver method the outlines of the individual cells, which may be irregular in size and shape, are made manifest (fig. 184). ELASTIC TISSUE. In certain situations in the body a tissue is required which, while allowing a considerable amount of extension, will readily return to its original condition when the extending force is relaxed. This is provided for by the preponderance of elastic fibres in the connective tissue, and these in the most typical examples of the tissue, such as the ligamentum nuchse of quadrupeds and the ligamenta subfiava of the human spine, give it a yellowish colour. The tissue is extensible and elastic in the highest degree, but is not so strong as ordinary fibrous ligament, and it breaks across the direction of its fibres when forcibly stretched. Examples of the texture on a large scale are seen in the horse, ox, elephant, and other large quadrupeds, in which it forms the great elastic ligament, called liga- 7nentum nuchoe, that extends from the spines of the vertebrae to the occiput and aids in sustaining the head ; in the same animals it also forms an elastic subcutaneous fascia, which is spread over the muscles of the abdomen and assists in supporting the contents of that cavity. In man it occurs in the following situations, viz. : 1. Forming the ligamenta suhflava, which extend between the arches of adjacent vertebrae ; these ligaments, while they permit the bones to be drawn apart in flexion of the body, aid in restoring and maintaining their habitual approximation in the erect posture—so far, therefore, relieving the constant effort of the erector muscles. There is, moreover, an obvious advantage in having an elastic band in ’ J. F. Gemmill, Journ. Anafc. and Physiol, xv. 1906. VOL. JI. PART I. I