TEETH 508 of the embryonic connective tissue. It is from this superficial layer of cells—which in sections has a palisade-like appearance—that the dentine becomes gradually formed ; its cells have accordingly received the name of odontoblasts. There is nothing of the nature of a membrane—the so-called membrana preformativa— between the adamantoblasts and the odontoblasts, but the two layers are in immediate contact. The other cells of the dental papilla become branched con- nective-tissue cells, and some connective-tissue fibrils form in the intercellular substance ; in this way the dental pulp is developed. Meanwhile the whole tooth-germ—papilla and enamel organ—has become in- cluded within a vascular membrane of connective tissue which is known as the dental sac. Formation of dentine.—The odontoblasts, either by secretion or, as some think, by direct transformation of the peripheral end of each cell, form a layer of dentinal matrix {'prodentine) immediately at the surface of the papilla at its apex. or, if it have more than one cusp, then at the apex of each cusp. This layer is at first uncalcified (fig. 740), and is probably the struc- ture which used to be described as a membrana preformativa. Although, in ordinary preparations, it has a Fig. 740.—Section of developing dentine FBOM THE INCISOR TOOTH OF A YOUNG RAT. (Schafer.) a, outer layer of fully formed dentine; h, uncalcified matrix, with one or two nodules of calcareous matter near the calci- fied part; c, odontoblasts sending processes into the dentine; d, pulp. The section is stained with carmine, which colours the uncalcified matrix, but not the calcified l^art. Fig. 741.—Part of a section of developing TOOTH OF PIG. (v. Koi’ff.) a, ameloblasts; d, fibres of the first formed layer of dentine; od, odontoblasts; jp, pulp. The fibres of the pulp are seen to be in con- tinuity with those which enter into the forma- tion of the dentine. homogeneous appearance, special modes of preparation and staining show it to be composed of collagenous fibrils similar to those which constitute the lamellte of bone.^ These fibrils are in fact continuous between the odontoblasts with the fibrils of the dental pulp (fig. 741 ).^ The fibrils in the prodentine are at first vertical to the surface of the tooth (v. Korff's fibrils) ; subsequently others are seen having a course nearly parallel to it and across the direction of the tubules. They repre- sent the permanent fibrils of the dentine. Globules of calcareous matter soon appear in the prodentine. They are at first isolated, but by further deposition of lime salts they become more or less ’ V. Ebner, Schaff’s Handb. d. Zahnheilk, 1890. - Mummery, Phil. Trans. 182,1891; v. Korff, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixvii. 1905; Ixix. 1900; and Ergebn. d. Anat. xvii. 1907; Anat. Anz. xxxv. 1910; v. Ebner, Wiener !Sitzungsb. cxv. 1900 and Anat. Anz. xxxiv. 1909; Studnicka, Anat. Anz. xxx. 1907; xxxi. 1907; xxxiv. 1909. See also on the development of dentine F. T. Paul, Trans. Odont. Soc. 1899.