3 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TISSUES Development of the tissues.—The whole of the animal body with all its organs and tissues is developed from a single cell, the ovum (fig. 3). This after conjugation (fertilisa- tion) with the male cell {spemiatozoon, fig. 4, II.), undergoes re p e a t e d division, and forms, in the first instance, a mass of cells which ultimately become arranged in three layers overlying or surrounding a cavity; the ovum having in the meantime grown to many times its original size. It is now known as the blastodermic vesicle, or blasto- cyst ; and the three layers of which the wall of this vesicle is composed are termed collectively the blasto- derm, and are named respectively from without in, ectoderm, mesoderm, and entoderm.* All are at first composed exclusively of undifierentiated embryonic cells, but as development and - growth proceed these cells become variously modified structurally and chemically, and gradually produce or build up the several tissues of which the body is ultimately composed. A study of their develop- ment shows that, speaking generally, certain tissues are formed out of each layer of the blastoderm, and we may thus classify the tissues according to the layer from which they originate, as ectodermic, mesodermic, and entodermic.- The histogenetic connexion which is thus established between the blastoderm layers and the several tissues is expressed in the appended table. ^ For the formation of the blastoderm, see Embryology. ^ By this classification it is by no means implied that a tissue can only be produced by the cells of one blastodermic layer, for there are cases in which a tissue which is normally formed by cells from one layer of the blastoderm may be regenerated by cells of a different origin. Some tissues, e.g. stratified, ciliated, and glandular epithelia, are normally formed either from ectoderm or entoderm, and plain muscle, which is ordinarily of mesodermic origin, is developed in certain situations from ectoderm. Cf. on this subject, A. v. Szily, Anat. Hefte, xxxiii. 1907. Minot (‘Address to the Association of American Anatomists,’ Amer. Journ. Anat. iv. 1905) insists that ‘ each germ layer produces its own specific set of tissues, which are not duplicated by the tissues of any other germ layer.’ It is obvious that this statement must be accepted with certain reservations. II \—c a Fig. 4.—I. A cell op testicle (spermatid) developing into a SPERMATOZOON. (Niessing.) a, tail-filament growing out from centriole. II. Human spermatozoon in pro- file AND VIEWED ON THE PL.'VT. (Retzius.) b, head formed of cell-nucleus; c, middle piece, formed from cell- protoplasm; (I, tail; e, end-piece of tail. Fig. 3.—Human ovum surrounded by cells op the discus PROLiGERUS. (Van der Stricht.) M 2