250 NE K V E-RE GE N E RA TI ON Except close to tlie actual place of section, where they are somewhat hypertroj>hicd, the connective-tissue sheaths of the nerve remain unaltered. In the cicatrix the new nerve-hbres do not at first run in definite sheaths, but these Ijccome subsequently develofied from the con- nective tissue around, so that at length the restoration of continuity of all the structures in the nerve becomes complete. Vanlair states tliat the outbudding of the axis-cylinders of the central end may occur as much as one or two centimetres from the point of section, and may involve at first only the peripheral hbres of a funiculus. Ranvier looks upon the regeneration of a nerve by growth from the intact central ends of the fibres as illustrating the tendency which, he believes, all nerve-fibres exhibit, to grow con- tinuously until a hindrance is met with, and he compares the result of cutting a nerve-fibre in causing the growth of a number of new fibres in place of the original one, to that produced when the leading shoot of a plant is removed, in causing the production of a number of lateral buds. Some have thought that under favourable circumstances an immediate union between the ends of the nerve-fibres may happen after section ; but considering the impossibility of ])rociu'ing exact apposition of the individual fibres, end to end, as well as the inevitable ex- tension of the effects of the mechanical injury caused by the section along the soft contents of the primitive sheath, it seems improbable that such direct union should ever occur. Regeneration need not necessarily occur along the track of the original nerve, but can be made to take a different path. Thus if the vagus and sympathetic nerves in the neck (cat, rabbit) be both divided, and the central cut end of the vagus be sutured to the peripheral cut end of the sympathetic, all the effects of sympathetic excitation can be got after regenera- tion is complete by stimulating the central end of the vagus;' synapses between the vagus fibres and the cells of the symj)athetic ganglion have become established. A similar result is obtainable by joining up the motor branch of the fifth with the sympathetic,^ or a spinal nerve with the vagus, although in this case a long time is required for the downgrowing nerves to effect connexions in the heart.® On the other hand, two peripheral nerves can never be got to show any signs of regeneration if joined up together, nor is there any functional regeneration if afferent and efferent nerves are cut and joined together.■* Regeneration does not take place in the case of fibres crossing through the brain or spinal cord, so that a lesion of any part of these centres can never be made good. The degeneration does not affect, as we have seen, the part of the nerve remaining in con- nexion with the nucleated cell-body, which maintains the nutrition of the nerve. The nucleated cell-bodies in the ganglia, as well as those in the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord, are centres of this influence. It is found that, in the central portion of a divided spinal nerve, while the fibres belonging to the anterior root owe their integrity to their connexion with the large cells of the anterior cornu, and, in the case of the fine medullated fibres, with the cells of the lateral cornu, those of the posterior root are similarly dependent on the nucleated cell-bodies within the ganglion ; so that if the posterior root be cut betw'een the ganglion and the spinal cord, not only will the fibres which pass from it into the trunk of the nerve beyond the ganglion remain unchanged, but also those above the ganglion, in the portion of the root left in con- nexion with it; whereas the fibres of the same root which remain connected with the cord but severed from the ganglion degenerate. A Various authors have believed that they have been able to show that regeneration of severed nerve-fibres may occur independently of the central end of the nerve in the degenerated portion peripheral to the injury (peripheral autogenesis). So far as the histological evidence is concerned, this opinion is based mainly upon the fact that a fibrillation may be exhibited within the sheaths of the degenerated fibres: this fibrillation has been regarded as due to the formation within these sheaths of neuro-fibrils, which are assumed to belong to axis-cylinders newly developing at the periphery. But the reasons for regarding these peripheral fibrils as neuro-fibrils is by no means convincing, and the evidence that the peripheral fibres are regenerated as outgrowths from the central stump of the divided nerve is so strong and fits so completely into the whole neuronal scheme of structure and development of the nervous system (and especially that * Tjangley, Journ. Physiol, xxxiii. 1898. See also his article on the ‘ Sympathetic ’ in Schafer’s Text-book. ' Langley and Anderson, Journ. Physiol, xxxi. 1904, Braun, Harrison, and others. J. Erlanger, Amer. Journ. Physiol, xiii. 1905. ' Langley and Anderson, Journ. Physiol, xxx. 1904 ; W. A. Osborne, Proc. Physiol. Soc. in Journ. Physiol. 1908 ; Osborne and Kilvington, Journ. Physiol, xxxviii. 1909.