368 THE BLOOD found no constant difference, tlie average diameter of the erythrocyte being 7*8 /x. The corpuscles of many mammals, notably the dog among the common domestic animals, approach so nearly in size to the human blood-corpuscles as to be practically indistinguishable from them. When viewed singly by transmitted light the erythrocytes do not appear red but merely of a reddish-yellow tinge, or yellowish-green in venous blood. It is only when the light traverses a number of corpuscles that a distinct red colour is produced. In consequence of the concavity of the surfaces, the erythrocyte looks darker in the middle than at the edge when viewed with only a moderate magnifying power, or at a distant focus ; but the middle of the corpuscle appears lighter than the periphery when a close focus or a very high magnifying power is employed. The erythrocytes, when blood is drawn from the vessels, sink in the plasma ; they have a singular ten- dency to run together, and to cohere by their surfaces, so as to form cylindrical columns, like piles or rouleaus of money, and the rolls or piles themselves join together into an irregular network (figs. 555, 558). The corpuscles separate on slight movement of the fluid, and unite again when it comes to rest. The rouleau-formation will take place in blood which has been in any way brought to a standstill within the living vessels as well as in blood that has stood for some hours after it has been drawn, and also when the corpuscles are immersed in serum in place of liquor sanguinis. It was shown by Norris ^ that discs which float completely immersed in any fluid will, when the fluid comes to rest, adhere together in the form of rouleaus provided that the surface of the discs is coated with a substance not wetted by the fluid in which they float. Thus cork discs which have been weighted so that they neither rise nor sink in water do not adhere together so long as they are freely wetted by the water, but if their surfaces are coated with a thin film of fatty substance the discs tend to run together into rouleaus. As it is probable (see next page, Structure of the Erythrocyte) that the red discs do actually possess a superficial film of fat-like substance, the facts pointed out by Norris suggest a reasonable explanation of the rouleau-formation which occurs in blood that has been allowed to come to rest. Human erythrocytes, as well as those of mammals generally, often present deviations from the natural shape, which are due to causes acting after the blood has been drawn from the vessels, but which in some instances depend upon abnormal conditions previously existing in the blood. Thus, it is not unusual for many of them to appear shrunken and crenated, when exposed under the microscope (fig. 559, /), and the number of corpuscles so altered often increases during the time of observation. This is, perhaps, the most common change ; it also occurs whenever the density of the plasma is increased by the addition of a neutral salt. On the other hand, a slight diminution in the density of the plasma causes one of the surfaces to be bent out, and the corpuscle then acquires a cup-like figure, which is sometimes seen in erythrocytes even within the blood-vessels (see pp. 366, 367).2 The corpuscles of the Mexican deer and some allied species present very singular ’ Proc. Roy. Soc. 1802 and 1809. See also Physiology and Pathology of the Blood, 1882. ‘‘‘ It has been suggested by Rindfleisch (Arch. f. niikr. Anat. xvii. 1880) that the erythrocytes when first produced are cup-shai)ed, and that they become mechanically moulded into the biconcave form by impact against one another in the blood-vessels. Fig. 558.—Red coepuscles COLLECTED INTO KOLLS. (After Henle.) Magnified about 420 diameters.