12 STRUCTUKE OF CELL solution into the condition of a jelly : these are termed respectively the ‘ sol ’ and ‘ gel ’ phases of the colloid (Graham). 3. The conditions which produce a variation in the physical state (aggregation) of the colloid particles may be mechanical, thermal, chemical (addition of electrolytes) and electrical. (a) Mechanical.—The mere shaking up of a colloidal solution may produce aggregation and coagulation. This is the case as shown by Ramsden ‘ with the colloids of white of egg. The coagulation which occurs from contact with porous material such as animal charcoal, or by the addition to a colloid solution of a solid colloid of different chemical nature, may perhaps also be referred to a mechanical cause. (b) Thermal.—A colloid substance which is fluid within a certain range of temperature may have its aggregation condition increased by either a depression or rise in temperature. Thus, a solution of gelatin is fluid at high temperatures owing to an increase in the kinetic energy and consequent disaggregation of its particles ; on the other hand, it sets into a ‘ gel ’ on cooling : a solution of albumin is fluid in the cold and ‘ coagulates ’ {i.e. forms a ‘ gel ’) on heating, but probably this is accompanied by a change in the molecular constitution of the albumin ; a solution of caseinogen coagulates when heated in the presence of calcium salts and redissolves on cooling.^ When the conditions of temperature are reversed, some ‘ gels,’ such as that formed by gelatin and that of caseinogen, beeome redissolved, others remain in the ‘ gel ’ eondition : these are termed respectively by Hardy reversible and irreversible. Reversible ‘ gels ’ ean be eonverted into irreversible by eertain (fixative) reagents : thus, an ordinary gelatin jelly is so eonverted by fixation with formaldehyde. It then exhibits under the microscope a retieular aggregation of the eolloid, and the effect of heating now is to cause a closer aggregation of the partieles and a shrinking of the ‘ gel ’ with expression of interparticulate fluid. In some cases (fibrin) such shrinking may occur without artificially increasing the temperature, but even in these it is aceelerated by heat. In eertain solutions the gelation may oecur abruptly on a partieular temperature being reached, and the re-solution of the gel may also occur abruptly at a higher temperature (low and high ‘ eritical points ’ of Hardy). (e) Chemical and Electrical.—The partieles of a colloid substance in apparent solution may be positively or negatively charged, according to the ionic combinations which they have formed. When eleetrolytes are added their effect depends upon the nature of the ions. Thus, an electro- lyte earrying a eharge of the opposite sign to that borne by the colloid particles causes them to become aggregated—i.e. eauses jellying or eoagulation. On the other hand, an electrolyte carrying a charge of the same sign as that borne by the coUoid particles causes them to subdivide still further, and as a result an increase of liquefaction occurs. The passage of an eleetrical current produces similar effeets. If the colloid particles are negatively charged they tend to undergo aggregation around the anode, disaggregation around the kathode. Hardy concluded that the behaviour of colloidal solutions to electrolytes and to the poles of a galvanie battery shows that the ‘ sol ’ phase is due to the fact of the particles carrying an electrical charge of the same sign and being thus mutually repelled and disaggregated, the ‘ gel ’ phase to the intro- duetion of an eleetrical charge of the opposite sign, so that they beeome mutually attracted and aggregated. Action of fixing reagents on colloids.—Hardy further finds, as had indeed been previously noticed, that many of the ordinaiy fixing agents, whieh act, it may be remarked, by causing gelation or eoagulation of eolloid, produce definite types of strueture in the ‘ gel ’ : either parti- culate aggregation or reticulation, or a honeycomb or froth-like structure—all similar to the types of structure which have been deseribed, as will be seen later, in protoplasm itself. The usual result with sueh proteins as are present in egg-white was the formation of a reticulum or spongework ; and this was obtained, although with a different-sized mesh, with reagents so various as osmium tetroxide (osmie aeid), heat (momentarily apphed), potassium bichromate, and corrosive subhmate. On the other hand, the thin edge of a film of albumen solution sometimes showed eomplete homogeneity after fixation, although the thicker parts of the film exhibited a reticulated structure. Some of Hardy’s experiments upon coagulation and fixation have been repeated by G. Mann,^ who has pointed out that whereas most of the ordinary fixative solutions employed in histology contain electrolytes and produee eoagulation of eolloids by the action of their ions, there are two very important reagents aeting pre-eminently as fixatives, viz. osmium tetroxide and formaldehyde, whieh are non-electrolytes. According to Mann, these substances, when used in a pure form, do not tend to produce an artificial structure in colloid solutions, but coagulate them with the formation of a transparent homogeneous mass. ’ Arch. f. Physiol. 1894, p. 517. S. Ringer, Journ. Physiol, xi. 1890; and xii. 1891. •* Methods and Theory of Physiological Histology, 1902.