PARATHYROIDS 675 and Thompson.' Edmunds,- on the other liand, was unable to find such develop- ment into thyroid tissue, and regards the parathyroids as entirely independent in structure, as they appear to be in function. Schreiber found that in man, although they usually appear to have a structure unlike that of the thyroid, they may with advancing age develop vesicles containing a colloid-like material. Schaper has also described such vesicles in the parathyroids. The parathyroids are even more Fig. 972.—Pauathyhoid of cat, some time after essential to life" in most animals than kemoval of thyboid. (Vincent and Jolly.) the thyroid itself. If they are removed, Characteristic colloid-containing vesicles are now . 1 ^ evident in the parathyroid, severe nervous symptoms, known as ^ ‘ tetanv,’ result; these generally have a speedily fatal termination. This tetany is most common in carnivora and in the young of herbivora ^: that it is not obtained always has been Fig. 973.—The thyroid and thymus in a child of six months. (Sappey.) A. Situation, form and relations of the glands. 1, right lobe, 2, left lobe, 3, median furrow of thymus; 4, lung, somewhat everted ; 5, internal mammary vein; 6, thyroid ; 7, inferior, 8,middle thyroid veins ; 9, common carotid artery ; 10, internal jugular vein ; 11, vagus nerve. B. Right lobe of thymus after removal of its envelope; 1, its apex; 2, its base; 3, thin outer border; 4, thick inner border. C. The gland unravelled, showing the lobules, 3, grouped around a central cord; 4, the central cord or strand of connective tissue, connecting the lobules. ascribed to one or more of the parathyroids being sometimes less closely associated with the thyroid, and. only with difficulty found and removed: such dislocated parathyroids are ^ Anat. Anz. xxxiv. 1909. For a detailed account of the anatomical relations of the thyroid and parathyroid throughout the vertebrate series see F. D. Thompson, Phil. Trans. B. cci. 1910. - Journ. Path, and Bact. v. 1898, and xiv. 1910. 3 S. Simpson, Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. ix. 1911 (in young lambs). X X 2