VOL. II. PART I. D I) VESSELS AND NERVES OE LYMPH-GLANDS 401 turned towards tlie lympli-cliaimel are provided with processes to anastomose with those covering the retiform tissue. The inner surface of the capsule is also lined with endothelium-cells, which are continuous at the entrance and exit of the lymphatics with the endothelium of those vessels. Blood- and lymph-vessels and nerves.—Alr^mes enter and vems leave the gland at the hilum, surrounded, in some glands, as already said, with a dense in- vestment of connective tissue. The arterial branches go to the lymphoid tissue, but are conducted at first along the trabeculae, and some branches may remain within the trabeculae and pass to the capsule of the gland to be there distributed. As the arterioles pass to the proper glandular substance, the connective tissue of the trabeculae which ensheaths them merges gradually into the lymphoid tissue of the pulp, so that this at first appears as a sheath to the arterial branch (as in the spleen). The arteriole soon, however, breaks up into capillaries, which ramify in the gland- pulp, supported by its pervading reticular tissue ; this forms an ad- ditional adventitious coat around the minute vessels. The veins pass along the trabeculae to the hilum, there imitino; into one or two efferent veins. The gland receives a few small arterioles at its general surface, but nearly all the blood-supply enters and leaves at the hilum. ^ As to the lijm'pliatics of the gland, the afferent vessels, after ramify- ing upon and in the tissue of the capsule, send their branches through it to open into the lymph-sinus of the cortex, and the efferent lymphatics begin by vessels which lead from the lymph-sinus of the medullary part, and form at the hilum a dense plexus of tortuous and varicose lymph-vessels ; from these, larger vessels proceed to form the efferent trunks. The lymph-sinus, therefore, forms a path for the passage of lymph, interposed between the afferent and efferent lymphatics, communicating with both and maintaining the continuity of the lymph-stream. The afferent and efferent vessels, where they open into the lymph-sinus, lay aside all their coats, except the endothelial lining ; this is continued upon the interior of the capsule and over the trabeculae. The nerves which pass to lymph-glands are distributed chiefly to the plain muscular tissue of the gland and of its blood-vessels. Fig. 5‘J9. —End of a fibrous trabecula from the SAME PREPARATION, SHOWING THE CONTINUITY OP THE CONNECTIVE-TISSUE FIBRILS WITH THE RETICULUM (Scliiifer.) Highly magnified. tv, trabecula; r, reticulum. Variations in structure,—The chief differences of structure seen in lymph-glands depend upon the relative amount and nature of the framework. Thus whereas in some animals both the capsule and the trabeculae are strong and muscular, in others they are less developed and contain but little plain muscular tissue. In some the trabeculae are almost or entirely absent, and the interior of the gland then looks in section like a Continuous mass of lymphoid tissue, traversed by clearer lymph-channels. This is the case in some lymph- glands in the human subject (fig. 600). Function.—Within the lymphoid tissue of the lymph-gland a production of new lymphocytes is constantly proceeding. This is evidenced by the numerous mitoses seen in that tissue, especially at certain places, the germ-centres, as has 1 On the distribution of the blood-vessels to lymph-glands see Calvert, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull, xii. 1901. - For the differences in structure of lymph-glands in domestic animals see J. Richter, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lx. 1902. J i b