SPINAL COPD 297 amongst its cells. Finally, immediately in contact with the grey matter in the ventro-lateral regions are many fibres which have originated in cells of the cord itself and are passing upwards or down- wards to make connexions between the segment of the cord from which they originate and others above or below. These are termed proprio- spinal fibres to distinguish them from the fibres of longer course which have either their origin or destination in some other part of the nervous system. * The spinal cord is closely covered externally by a vascular connective-tissue membrane which is known as the pia mater. Within this the arteries ramify, and from them numerous blood-vessels enter the white substance to supply this and in greater measure the grey matter with capillaries. Accompanying these entering vessels are septa of connective tissue, the largest of which passes in along the dorsal median Fig. 468.—Diagkam to show coubse of fibres OF DORS.AL boots WHTHIN CORD. (Schafer, modified from Cajal.) a, afferent fibres passing through spinal ganglia, g.s.; e, efferent fibres arising in cells of ventral bom; g.V.^ ganglion-cells of fifth cerebral nerve; n.c., nucleus cuneatus of medulla oblon- gata ; n.g., nucleus gracilis; /, fibres of fillet arising from cells of these nuclei; c, descending branches of fifth and spinal nerves, giving off collaterals to dorsal horn and to the substantia Rolandi, s. Bo. line, and separates the two dorsal columns of white matter. Along the ventral median line is a deep groove which is lined by a continuation of pia mater. Outside the pia mater and separated from it by a considerable space containing cerebro-spinal fluid is a delicate non- vascular connective-tissue membrane known as the arachnoid. The space between it and the pia mater, which is bridged across here and there by trabeculae of connective tissue, is the subarachnoid space. Outside the arachnoid and usually in close contact with it, but \vith a narrow caj)illary cleft {subdural space) between, which may become dis- tended by the accumulation of cerebro-spinal fluid, is the thick fibrous dura mater. The dura mater contains some blood-vessels, but is not as vascular as the pia mater. It is not in close contact with the wall of the vertebral canal, but is separated from the * The term endogenous is also employed to designate fibres which run up or down the cord and take origin in the spinal cord itself; those which have their cells of origin outside the cord (in the spinal ganglia or in higher parts of the central nervous system) being termed exogenous.