PONS 301 a small mass of gelatinous grey substance. This bundle—known as the solitary bundle—is a descending sensory root of the tenth and ninth nerves, and its grey sub- stance is their sensory ‘ nucleus ’ : it receives also the pars intermedia of the seventh nerve. Most ventral of all, as in the lower part of the bulb so also in this upper part, is seen the mass of fibres forming the 'pyramid. Between the pyramid and reticular formation another peculiarly shaped mass of grey matter has become developed— the nucleus of the olivary body. This appears in sections as a corrugated grey band containing numerous small nerve-cells. It is already seen in the lower part of the bulb, but is most developed in the upper or ventricular part. It produces an olive-shaped prominence—the olive—on the surface of the lateral column. The Thalamo-olivary tract Hilus oliva Olivary nucleut Ext. arcuate fibres Pyramid Arcuate nucleus Interolivary fibres Desc. fibres of vestibu Dorsal nucl. of XtJi Fasciculus solit. Bestiform body Nucl. of Xlltli Subst. gelat. Desc. root of Vth Subst. gelat. Boh Nucl. ambiguiiL Issuing fibree of Xth Issuing fibres 01 Xllth Baplie Fibres of Xllth and dorsal longitudinal bundle Vestihular nucletts Tcenia Fig. 471.—Section across the upper part op the medulla oblongata. (Schafer.) Photograph. Magnified about 6 diameters. nucleus is open towards the raphe, and here numerous fibres pass out from its interior and, crossing the raphe, can be traced as arcuate fibres into the inferior cerebellar peduncle, and so to the cerebellar hemisphere of the opposite side. The dorsal spino-cerebellar fibres can also be seen, as already mentioned, to pass into this peduncle ; some fibres from the ventral spino-cerebellar bundle also enter it. Pons.—The structure of the pons is very similar to that of the uppermost part of the medulla oblongata, with which it is continuous. But the part which is continued up from the medulla oblongata is concealed from the ventral aspect by a large mass of fibres which have their origin in the ventral part of the pons in grey matter {nuclei pontis) situated around and between the longitudinally