173 FASCICULI of inclination, yet in the voluntary muscles they do not interlace with one another. An outward investment or sheath of areolar tissue {efimysium) surrounds the entire muscle, and sends partitions inwards between the fasciculi, furnishing to each of them a special sheath {'perimysium). The areolar tissue extends also between the fibres {endomysium), but does not afford to each a continuous investment, and therefore cannot be said to form sheaths for them. Every fibre, it is true, has a proper sheath ; but this, as will be afterwards explained, is not composed of areolar tissue. The perimysium contains elastic as well as white fibres ; but the elastic element is found principally in its investing, as distinguished from its penetrating, portion. In the endomysium numerous plasma-cells are found. The chief uses of the areolar tissue are to connect the fibres and fasciculi together, and to conduct and support the blood-vessels and nerves in their ramifications Fig. 261.—Section of sartorius mqscle (human). (M. Heidenhain.) Magnified 4 diameters. The epimysium is well seen and the division of the muscle into larger and smaller fasciculi. between the parts. The relation of these different subdivisions of a muscle to each other, as well as the shape of the fasciculi and fibres, is well shown in transverse section (fig. 261). The fasciculi are of a prismatic figure, and their sections have therefore an angular outline. The number of fibres of which they consist varies, so that they differ in thickness, and a large fasciculus may be divisible into two or three orders of successively smaller bundles, but of no regularly diminishing magnitude. Some muscles have large, others only small fasciculi ; and the coar.se or fine texture of a muscle, as recognised by the dissector, depends on this circumstance. The length of the fasciculi is not always proportioned to the length of the muscle, but depends on the arrangement of the tendons to which their extremities are attached. When the tendons are limited to the ends of a long muscle, as in the sartorius, the fasciculi, having to pass from one extremity to the other, are of groat length ; but a long muscle may be made up of a .series of short fa.sciculi attached obliquely to one or both sides of a tendon, which advances