663 CHANGES DURING MENSTRUATION is preceded by an extravasation of blood from the superficial vessels, and com- mences, along with the menstrual discharge, close to the cervix, or at the os, advancing progressively towards the fundus during the remaining days of the flow of blood (J. Williams). Previous to this change, there is a great increase in the general vascularity of the parts, and the mucous membrane becomes very much t hicker {premenstrual phase). This begins to be evident six or seven days before the menstrual flow commences, the vessels become dilated and the glands both enlarged and elongated, as well as more coiled : they also show increased secretion. The superficial part of the mucous membrane is now marked off from the deeper part, which acquires a spongy appearance (Brouha).’ Stage of menstruation or destructive phase.—There are found at first small blood extravasations in the superficial layer, which increase in amount and produce subepithelial accumulations of blood (hsematomata) (fig. 957). The epithelium of the surface becomes disintegrated and cast off; and this process of disintegration proceeds to involve the interglandular tissue and even the glands themselves. The blood which has become extravasated by rupture of the capillary vessels finds its way into the cavity of the uterus, where it becomes mixed with mucus and eventually appears at the vulva. Some authorities hold that the destruction may be confined to the superficial layer and even to the epithelium, but there is a considerable amount of evidence in favour of a more extensive change. Probably there is a good deal of individual variation. The process of disintegration in some instances certainly reaches as far as the inner fibres of the muscularis mucosse. a if Post-menstrual phase : stage of repair.—The process of restoration of the uterine membrane, which begins even before the cessation of the menstrual flow, proceeds in the same order, from the lower end upwards to the fundus, and consists in a very rapid proliferation of the cells of the mucous membrane and of the epithelium of the glands. The whole of the destroyed epithelial structure both of the glands and of the general surface is renewed from the epithelium of those parts of the glands that have escaped disintegration. The epithelial regeneration is very rapid, and the inner surface is already covered again with epithe- lium very shortly after the menstrual flow has ceased, but the original thickness of the mucous membrane is not at once attained, the growth in thickness progressing gradu- ally up to the time of the next menstruation, and with it the growth in length and the intricacy of the uterine glands. The lining membrane of the cervix does not participate in the changes referred to. In gestation more extensive alterations ensue. The weight of the organ increases enormously. Its colour becomes darker, its tissue less dense and its muscular bundles more evident. A very great increase takes place in the muscular tissue, this increase being mainly the result of the enlargement of the already existing elements, the cells becoming enlarged to the extent of from seven to eleven times Fig, 958. — Muscular FIBRES (a) FROM NON- PREGNANT, (&) FROM PREGNANT UTERUS, DRAWN TO THE SAME SCALE. (Sellheim.) 1 Liege med. 1911 (quoted from abstract in Zentralbl. f. Anat. viii. 1911). The subject of the periodic changes wliich the uterus undergoes is dealt with in considerable detail by Marshall, Physio- logy of Reproduction, 1910, where also references to most of the literature will be found.