MUSCLE 178 ^ Ibid. Ixxiii. 1909. 1 Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lx.xi. 1907. longitudinally and transversely, whereby, on the application of a severing force, it cleaves in the one or in the other direction. That this conclusion was erroneous, however, is shown by the fact that a fibre can be easily dissociated into longitudinal elements after death even without the action of any reagents, but not into discs ; and also by the fact that in certain muscular fibres (those which move the wings of many insects) a separation into fibrils can be obtained even in the living and contractile condition of the fibre. In these muscles, in consequence of the large amount of interstitial substance (sarcoplasm) between the fibrils, the fibre never under any circumstances cleaves across into discs. According to J. Arnold, the glycogen of muscle is confined to the sarcoplasm. Holmgren has described a trophospongium ‘ within the sarco]:>lasm of voluntary muscle, but its existence is denied by Arnold.'^ If a transverse section of a muscular fibre (figs. 273, 274), or the surface of a separated disc, is examined with a high power, it appears to be marked out into small polygonal areas separated by fine lines which, in acid preparations, have the appearance of a network (fig. 275). The smallest of these areas, known as Cohnheim’s areas, represent sections of muscle-columns, and the lines between them represent the intercolumnar substance or sarcoplasm. The lines of the network are usually coarser near the surfaces of such a disc, because, as will immediately Fig. 273. Fig. 274. Fig. 275. Fig. 273.—Tkansverse section of a mammalian muscular fibre showing Cohnheim’s AREAS. (Schafer.) Alcohol preparation. Three nuclei are visible under the sarcolemma. Fig. 274.—Transverse section of leg-muscle fibre of an insect, stained with gold CHLORIDE. (Schafer.) The sarcoplasm is here stained, and appears in the form of a network, in the meshes of which lie the sections of the fibrils. Notice the mottled appearance of the sections of the sarcostyles or fibrils, indicating a porous structure, as in the wing-fibrils (see fig. 283). The central protoplasm (with a nucleus) is also evident. (From a photograph.) Fig. 275.—A separate disc from a preparation like that shown in fig. 277, seen PARTLY FROM THE SURFACE AND EXHIBITING THE SARCOPLASM WITH WHAT APPEARS TO BE A RETICULAR ARRANGEMENT. FrOM LEG-MUSCLE OF PtEROSTICHUS NIGER. (Schivfer.) be explained, the sarcoplasm is increased in amount at regular intervals, corre- sponding with constrictions in the fibrils ; by alteration of the focus, however, the appearance of a network can be made out through the whole thickness of the disc. Although such a network as the one which is shown in fig. 275, with polygonal meshes, is characteristic of the transverse section of the muscular fibres of verte- brates and of those of some insects, the fibres of many insects have the appearance in transverse section wdiich is shown in fig. 276, in which the lines of the apparent network—i.e. of the sarcoplasm—are disposed radially, and the muscle-columns also therefore have a radial disposition and a flattened shape. They are, however, subdivided by secondary septa of sarcoplasm (fig. 276a). Different muscles show considerable variety as to the conformation of the sarcostyles and the amount