BLOOD-VESSELS 844 The figure of the capillary network is not the same in all textures. In many cases the shape of the meshes is accommodated to the arrangement of the elements of the tissue in which they lie. Thus in muscle, nerve, and tendon, the meshes are long and narrow, and elongated in the direction of the fibres and fasciculi of these textures. In other parts, as in the lungs, in fat, and in secreting glands, the meshes are rounded or polygonal, wfith no one dimension greatly predominating. In the papillae of the skin and mucous membranes the vessels of the net- work are often drawn out into promi- nent simple or ramified loops. In addition to, or in place of, true capillaries some organs possess a lacunar system of vessels called sinu- soids, which differ in size and in their mode of origin. These blood-sinusoids are met with in all blood-glands, and also in the liver; thev will be discussed * */ separately. Structure of the capillaries. —The wall of the capillaries proper is formed entirely of a simple endothelial layer, composed of flattened lanceolate cells joined edge to edge, and continu- ous with the corresponding layer which lines the smallest arteries and veins (fig. 527). The outlines of the cells, or their lines of junction one with another, may in many regions be made apparent by silver nitrate ; while in other regions silver nitrate does not produce this effect (see below). Their nuclei, which show a well-marked network, may be brought into view by any basic dye. Commonly there are not more than two or three cells in the cross section of the wall of a capillary. At the points of junction of the capillaries the cells are usually broader and not spindle-shaped, but radiate, with three or four pointed branches fitting in between the cells of the three or four adjoining vessels which meet at the spot (fig. 528, c, c, c'). Silver nitrate does not show the outlines of cells in the capillary vessels of the villi of the intestine, the glomeruli of the kidney, the choroid coat of the eye, the hyaloid membrane of the frog, and in developing capillaries. In these situations treatment with silver solution produces a uniform brown staining. The blood-channels of the liver of mammals after birth are quite distinct from all other blood-channels, for they are not lined by a continuous eiido- Fig. 528.—Capillary vessels from THE BLAHDER OF THE CAT. Mag- nified. (After Chrzonszczewsky.) The outlines of the cells are stained by silver nitrate. c, cells at junctions. Fig. 527.—Small arteriole breaking up into CAPILLARIES ; FROM THE LUNG OF A FROG. The OUTLINES of the endothelial cells are BROUGHT OUT BY SILVER NITRATE. (Mann.)