STRATIFIED EPITHELIUM 93^ through the whole thickness of the nervous tube to abut on its outer surface. But in the adult human subject these processes cannot be traced any great distance from the cell-body^ and the latter, especially in the spinal cord, is often found to have undergone dislocation from its original position and not infrequently complete degeneration. A peculiar form of epithelium is found lining the tube of the epididymis (fig. 152). The celD resemble those of ciliated epithelium, and possess a bunch of hair-like processes. These^ Fig. 153.—Section of the stratified epithelium covering the front of the CORNEA OF THE EYE. (Scliafer.) Highly magnified. c, lowermost columnar cells ; p, polygonal cells above these; /?, flattened cells near the- surface. The intercellular channels bridged by minute processes of the cell are well seen.. The lower part of the section on the right is somewhat broken. however, are not vibratile, but seem to be adherent together; they can be traced down into the’ cytoplasm for a short distance.^ For further details regarding the structure, development, and action of cilia and the nature and causation of their movement, see pp. 71 to 81. Protective epithelium.—The protective epithelia afford mechanical pro- tection to the surfaces which they cover. Two varieties of protective epitheliunii Fig. 154.—Epithelium-scales from THE INSIDE OF THE MOUTH, (Henle.) Magnified 260 diameters. may be distinguished—viz. stratified and transitional. In stratified epithelium the cells are disposed in a number of layers, and it is found that the constituent cells of Fig. 155. — Portion of epidermis from .a SECTION of the SKIN OF THE FINGER,. COLOURED WITH PICROCARMINE. (Raiivier.) a, horny layer ; h, its deepest part (stratum’ lucidum) with flakes of eleidin; c, eleidin- granules in cells of stratum granulosum; d, deeper cells of stratum mucosum with inter- cellular channels; e, dentations by which the deepest cells are fixed to the surface of the cutis vera. the various strata exhibit every variety of shape. As a rule the cells of the deepest or attached layer are columnar (fig. 153, c), and the superficial cells are flattened scales (fig. 153, fi)^ which may be of considerable size and overlap one another (fig. 153). The cells of the layers immediately external to the columnar layer are shaped so as to enable them to fit to tlio columnar cells and to one another (fig. 153, p) ; but as we trace the strata towards-- ' Myers-Ward, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxii. 1897; Gurwitsch, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lix. 1901; H. Fuchs, Anat. Hefte, xix. 1902; xx. 1905.