CAEDIAC MUSCLE 200 passing beyond the apparent cell-outlines are traceable over two or more of the apparent cells. The fibrils have evidently been formed in a syncytium, being developed at parts equidistant or nearly so from its nuclei, and in this way mark ofi what look like cell-outlines and produce a simulation of independent cell- structure. Now there is every reason to believe that the fibres of Purkinje represent an incomplete development of cardiac muscular structure, the striated substance being confined to what would be, were the cells separate from one another, the surface layer of each cell. With further development, such as obtains in ordinary cardiac muscle, the whole or nearly the whole of the protoplasm becomes converted into muscle-substance, only a small area being left around each nucleus. Purkinje’s fibres therefore probably represent a less developed portion of the original syncytium, although so far as mere growth is concerned they have surpassed in size the ordinary cardiac fibres. And in fact transitions can be traced between the Purkinje fibres and ordinary cardiac muscle. In man and most animals distinct Purkinje fibres do not exist, but the cardiac fibres are rather larger near the ventricular endocardium than elsewhere. In tracing their development it is found that the fibres which are nearest the endocardium develop last. '■ Auriculo-ventricular bundle.—It was until recently believed that in mammals the auricular and ventricular musculatures were entirely distinct, the connexion between auricles and ventricles being maintained by connective tissue, as well as in part by nerves. But muscular continuity was observed in the rat by Stanley Kent, and it has been definitely shown in mammals generally, including man, by W. His, jun., that a comparatively narrow band or bundle of somewhat modified cardiac muscular tissue connects the auricular and ventricular muscula- ture. The band originates in the musculature of the interauricular septum and passes through the uniting connective tissue opposite the situation of the septum to reach the base of the ventricles. Here, in most animals, it forks, one branch passing to the left and the other, the larger, to the right ventricle. This auriculo- ventricular bundle loses itself in the less completely developed cardiac muscle which underlies the endocardium, and which it resembles in structure. In animals which have fibres of Purkinje, the ventricular end of the bundle resembles these in structure. Most physiologists are of opinion that the function of the bundle is to conduct the contractions of the auricular muscle to the ventricles. This opinion is founded upon the statement—which is, however, contested by Kronecker and others - —that if the bundle be severed artificially or destroyed by disease the auricular rhythm is not communicated to the ventricle, which then beats with a slow and somewhat irregular autonomous rhythm (brachycardia, heart-block). The bundle is accompanied by nerves which have microscopic ganglia in their course (Wilson).^ Blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of cardiac muscle.—The musculature of the heart is even more richly supplied with blood-vessels than ordinary muscular tissue; and, as in that, the capillaries follow the general ^ J. B. MacCallum, Anat. Anz. xiii. 1897. Pankul, Zeitschr. f. Biol. li. 1908; M. Imchanitzki, Arch. f. Anat. 1909. The literature of the His bundle is extensive. The following are some of the principal papers relating to it: W. His, jun., Abhandl. a. d. med. Klinik z. Leipzig, 1893, and Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. Ixiv. 1899; A. F. Stanley Kent, Journ. Physiol, xiv. 1893; Braueng, Arch. f. Anat. 1904 (Suppl.); H. E. Herring, Pfliiger’s Arch, cviii. 1905, and cxvi. 1907 ; Keith and Flack, Lancet, 1900, and Journ. Anat. and Physiol. 1907 ; Einthoven, Arch, intern, de Physiol, iv. 1900; S. Tawara, Das Reizleitungs- system d. Siiugethierherzens, 1900; G. A. Gibson, Brit. Med. Journ. 1906; J. Erlanger, Journ. Exper. Med. 1900, and Pfliiger’s Archiv. cxxvii. 1909; also (with co-workers) in Ainer. Journ. Physiol. 1900,1907, 1908; Fahr, Virchow’s Arch. 1907; Wenckebach, Arch. f. Physiol. 1907; T. Lewis, Brit. Med. Journ. 1908; Briggs, Brit. Med. Journ. 1908; Trendelenburg and Cohn, Centralbl. f. Physiol, xxiii. 1909, and PHiiger’s Arch, cxxxi. 1909; L. F. Barker and A. D. Hirschfelder, Arch, of Internal Medicine, iv. 1909; E. J. Curran, Anat. Anz. xxxv. 1909; J. G. Wilson, Proc. Roy. Soc. B. Ixxxi. 1909.