PULP OF THE TEETH 493 The central cavity of a tooth is called the 'pulp-cavity, because it is occupied by a soft, highly vascular, and sensitive substance, called the dental ‘pul'p. This pulp (fig. 719, P) consists of a jelly-like connective tissue containing cells, fine fibres, blood-vessels, and nerves. Many of the fibres appear to be continued from processes of the cells : according to Kose they are not collagenous, although a few bundles of ordinary collagenous connective-tissue fibres accompany the blood-vessels and nerves. Near the dentine some of these connective-tissue bundles have a radial arrangement.^ Fig. 717.—Vebtical section of premolar of cat. (Waldeyer.) Magnified 15 diameters. c is placed in the pulp-cavity, opposite the cervix or neck of the tooth ; the part above is the crown, that below is the root (fang). 1, enamel with radial and concentric markings; 2, dentine with tubules and incremental lines; 3, cement or crusta peti'osa, with bone corpuscles; 4, dental periosteum; 5, bone of lower jaw. This is better marked during development of the dentine, when the fibrils extend between the superficial cells, and are continuous with those of the pro-dentine.The cells are partly disseminated in the matrix, and partly form a stratum at the surface of the pulp, where, during the formation of dentine, they are elongated, somewhat like the cells of columnar epithelium (see fig. 740, c, p. 508); but after the dentine is completely formed they Fig. 718.—Sections op an incisor and MOLAR TOOTH. become flattened, like the osteo- blasts under the periosteum of bone. These superficial cells [odontoblasts, fig. 719, Od, Od') send processes into tubules in the dentine, to be after- wards noticed, of which more than one may come from the same cell. The filaments within the tubules were first noticed by J. Tomes, and are known as Tomes’ fibres. The arteries and nerves, which are de- rived from the internal maxillary and fifth pair respectively, enter by the aperture at the point of each fang. The vessels form a capillary network beneath the superficial cells, but some may penetrate between these to the inner surface of the dentine.^ The nerves end in fine non-medullated fibrils, which are distributed abundantly at the surface of the pulp. Here they form ‘ Studnicka, Anat. Anz. xxx. 1907. - Korff, Arch. f. raikr. Anat. Ixvii. 1905. 2 For the distribution of blood-vessels see Lepkowski, Anat. Hefte, viii. 1897 and xvii. 1901.