CELL-CONTENTS 27 ‘ trophospongiiim/ and the canals into which they are described as penetrating ‘ lymph-canaliciili/ regarding the arrangement as ministering directly to the nutrition of the cell. His statement that there is always a permanent com- mimication of the canaliculi in question with the exterior is denied by V. Bergen, who has studied them in various situations (ganglion-cells, leuco- C}des, connective tissue, cartilage, and epithelium from different parts), v. Bergen is of opinion that the canaliculi are not permanent, but come and go; he states that they show in different cells different phases of formation.^ It is clear that if canaliculi are present in such cells as leucocytes and cartilage-cells, they cannot be occupied by a trophospongium derived from connective-tissue cells. Cell-contents: paraplasm, deutero- plasm.—The protoplasm of a cell usually contains a certain number of chemical substances, either in the solid or liquid form, which, while forming- part of the substance of the cell, do not form any portion of the actual living material, although this material may make use of such substances, by way of oxidation or otherwise, to produce a supply of energy for carrying on the functions of the cell. Examples of such substances are the protein granules and crystals which are found in many plant-cells ; particles and crystals of pigment (fig. 48) or of protein ; globules of fat (fig. 49) ; starch-granules (in plant- cells) ; also substances in solution, such as hsemoglobin, glycogen, and sugar ; and substances which are to be regarded as waste protoplasmic or nuclear products, such as creatin, creatinin, urea and urates. All such non-protoplasmic matter within a cell is sometimes termed collectively the 'para'plasm or deuieroplasm : it may be accumulated in so great an amount as almost completely to obscure the actual protoplasm. This is the case in fat-cells, in many plant-cells which are filled with starch or fat or aleuron grains, and in large animal ova, where the material which forms the greater part of the yolk is paraplasm. When the cell-contents other than protoplasm are of a fluid nature they often take the form of vacuoles, which appear as clear globules of varying size, less refracting than the cell-substance. In some plant-cells the vacuoles become very large, and their contents much exceed in bulk the actual protoplasm of the cell, which is then reduced to a thin external film enclosing a large cavity, which may be traversed here and there by threads of protoplasm. The fluid which occupies such a cavity is known as the cell-sap (fig. 50). Sometimes a complete physical and chemical transformation of the cell-substance occurs, so that the place of the protoplasm is occupied partly or wholly by a material of an entirely different character. This is the case normally with those cells which undergo keratinisation ; in these keratin is substituted for the cell-protoplasm, and the cell becomes of a hard, horny nature, losing all vital activity and assuming Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Bd. Ixiv. 1904. Fig. 49.—Fat-cells from young ANIMAL. (Ranvier.) Osmic acid preparation. The drops of fat are stained of an intense black, oi, nucleus ; fj, small globules of fat. Fig. 48.—A pigmented epithelium- cell OF THE RETINA, SEEN IN PROFILE. (Greeff.) Magnified 1,000 diameters. a, free surface ; h, nucleus ; c, pig- ment-free cytoplasm; cl, pigmented cytoplasm ; e, pigment-containing processes.