G27 PENIS Organ of Giraldi's.—The small body thus named is situated in the front of the cord im- mediately abovo'the head of the epididymis (see fig. 912, g). It consists usually of several small irregular masses containing convoluted tubules lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, and is scarcely to be recognised until the surrounding connective tissue has been rendered trans- parent by re-agents. It has also received the name of 'paradidymis (Waldeyer). Its tubules appear to be vestiges of part of the Wolffian body. In connexion with the paradidymis, there are often met with small masses of chromaphil cells resembling those of the medulla of the suprarenal capsules {paraganglia of Kohn). Portions of tissue which resemble the cortex of the suprarenal are also present occasionally, if not constantly, in the mediastinum testis between the vessels of the pampiniform plexus of the spermatic cord; and also adjacent to the vas deferens, especially near its commencement in the tail of the epididymis. This tissue is not, however, usually associated with the chromaphil substance. Cbangres in the structure of the testicle with age.—These changes have been studied by Spangaro, who finds that, normally, as age progresses—although spermatozoa may still be formed at a very advanced age—certain changes tending towards atrophy manifest themselves. Thus the tubules become smaller in diameter, and their walls relatively thicker, whilst the spermatogonia are relatively less numerous. On the other hand the spermatocytes and spermatids may be relatively more abundant than in the young subject. Abnormally the testicle may undergo marked atrophy with the advance of age, the tubules being much diminished in size and the spermatocytes and spermatids becoming few in number or disappearing altogether, the spermatogonia and the cells of Sertoh being the only elements which are left. Ultimately the atrophy may proceed to loss of all the contents of the tubules, which become completely coUapsed and empty, the whole organ being greatly shrunken. THE PENIS. The penis is composed principally of erectile tissue, arranged in three long- somewhat cylindrical masses, which are enclosed in fibrous sheaths (figs. 913 to 916). Of these masses, two, named corpora cavernosa 'penis, placed side by side, form the principal part of the organ, whilst the other, situated beneath the two preceding. Fig. 913.—Tkansverse section of the glans PENIS IN THE DISTENDED STATE, HALF AN INCH BEHIND THE MEATUS. (Symington.) 1, glans penis; 2, prepuce; 3, urethra; 4, fraenum of the prepuce. Fig. 914 —Transveese section of the glans PENIS IN THE DISTENDED STATE, SEVEN- EIGHTHS OF AN INCH BEHIND THE MEATUS. (Symington.) 1, glans penis; 2, prepuce; 3, urethra; 4, corpus cavernosum; 5, corpus spongiosum. surrounds the canal of the urethra, and is named corpus cavernosum urethrce or corpus spongiosum; it is enlarged distally to form the glans. Znteg*ument.—The skin which is continued from that of the pubes and scrotum forms a simple investment as far as the neck of the glans. Here it is doubled up in a loose fold, the prepuce or fore-shin. At the meatus urinarius the skin is continuous with the mucous membrane of the urethra. Upon the body of the penis the skin is thin, free from fat, and, in the anterior two-thirds of its length, from hairs also ; when present the hairs are short and thinly scattered, especially on the dorsal surface. In these respects the skin differs remarkably from that on the pubes, which is thick, covers a large cushion of fat, and, after puberty, is beset with hairs. The skin of the penis is very movable and distensible, and is of a darker colour than the skin generally. It contains both