TONGUE 490 C-" Pig. 712. — A fungifoiui papilla WITH THE BLOOD - VESSELS IN- JECTED. (Todd and Bowman.) a, artery; v, vein; c, capillary loops of simple papillee in the neigh- bourhood, covered by the epithelium ; d, capillary loops of the secondary papillae; e, epithelium. Iiing-ual papillae.—The lingual papillae found on the anterior two-thirds of the tongue (fig. 708) are of three kinds, circumvallate, fungiform, and conical. They vary both in size and form, but all of them are visible to the naked eye. They themselves, like the rest of the mucous membrane of the tongue and mouth gener- ally, are covered with closely set, microscopic secondary papillae hidden under the epithelium; these correspond with those of the skin, and each is occupied by a long loop of capillary blood- vessels. The circumvallate ‘papillce (fig. 708, 1, 2), from 7 to 12 in number, are found at the union of the middle and posterior thirds of the tongue, arranged in two lateral rows, which run obliquely back- wards and inwards towards a median papilla, like the limbs of the letter V. Not infrequently there are two papillae in the middle line. The circum- vallate papillae are situated in cup-like depressions of the mucous membrane ; each has the shape of a truncated cone, of which the smaller end is attached to the bottom of the cavity, and the broad flattened base appears on the surface (fig. 709). In some there is a central depression. The papilla is sur- rounded by a circular trench (fossa), around which again is a slight annular elevation of the mucous membrane (vallum). The ducts of one or more serous glands open into the trench surrounding the papilla (figs. 709, 710, d). The stratified epithe- lium covering the papilla is thick, and completely conceals the secondary papillae w^hich project into the epithelium. Taste-buds are found forming a zone around the sides of these papillae, and in man and some animals upon the opposed wall of the vallum (fig. 710). They are described in the parts of this work dealing with sensory nerve-endings (see p. 283 of this volume, and Vol. III., Part II.). Taste-buds are not confined to the circumvallate papillae, but are found here and there on the fungiform papillae and in the interpapillary epithelium of the organ, even on the under- surface, at least in the foetus.^ They have also been found in the hard palate of the foetus and in the lower part of the pharynx. They have occasionally been seen in the upper part of the gullet and in the part of the larynx whieh adjoins the pharynx.- They have long been recognised on the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis. The fungiform papillce, more numerous than the last, are small rounded eminences scattered over the middle and fore part of the dorsum of the tongue (fig. 708, 5) ; and, in even greater number and closer together, at the apex and near the borders. They are easily distinguished in the living tongue owing to their deep red colour. Each papilla is narrow at its attachment; from this point it enlarges in a bulbous manner, the free extremity being rounded (fig. 711). They ^ Ponzo, Anat. AlDZ. xxx. 1907. - Idem. See also J. G. Wilson, Brain, xxviii. 1905. Fig. 713. — Section of two FILIFOKM PAPILL.H, HUM.iN. (Heitzmaiin.) a, epithelium; b, corium; c, lymphoid tissue; d, muscular fibres of tongue.