005 MUCOUS MEMBKANE OF URETER cubical, with depressions on their under surface; these fit upon the rounded eads of a second layer of pear-shaped cells ; then follow two layers of rounded or oval cells, with processes extending down to the mucous membrane. This description of the shape of the epithelium-cells only applies to them as they occur in the empty condition of the duct; in the distended state the superficial cells are flattened out, and the pear-shaped and oval cells are much shorter. All the cells are con- nected with one another by ^ cell-bridges as in a stratified epithelium. The superficial cells are covered by a cuticular border on the free surface. They usually have two nuclei, and are believed to divide by amitosis. The deeper cells multiply by karyokiiiesis. Fig. 882.—Section of ureteb, lower part. (Disselhorst.) i, lumen; V, V, veins; g, a small ganglion; /,/, fat-cells in adventitia ; muscular bundles, variously cut; c, c, connective tissue. As in the pelvis of the kidney, fine connective-tissue prolongations and capillary loops extend into the deeper part of the epithelium, but they are less numerous in the ureter. A few small mucous glands have occasionally been described at the upper end of the ureter and in the renal pelvis, but they appear not to be present in man. Mucus is however secreted by the lining epithelium. The muscular tissue of the ureter can generally be made out to be arranged in circular and longitudinal bundles, which are usually described as forming three layers, viz. inner and outer longitudinal and intermediate circular. But many of the bundles have an oblique course and the layers are not sharply differentiated from one another. Moreover, there is everywhere a large amount of connective tissue between the muscular bundles, so that the coat is by no means so purely muscular as is that of most of the hollow viscera (fig. 882). The degree of development of the individual muscular layens differs considerably in different parts of the ureter. At the uppermost end near the pelvis there are chiefly longitudinal bundles