TESTICLE 614 outer longitudinal layers, and a very well-marked middle circular layer (fig. 893). The ampullcB and tlie seminal vesicles are enclosed in a common fibrous and muscular capsule. They have the same general structure as the vas deferens, but their walls are thinner, less muscular, and deeply corrugated (fig. 894, and lower figure of Plate opposite p. 635). The mucous membrane is beset with irregular gland-like diverticula which are often branched ; their epithelium shows two layers of cells, the inner columnar, the outer cubical. The columnar cells exhibit secretion appearances in the form of drop-like exudations from the free border like those seen in the epididymis and vasa efEerentia (fig. 897). The epithelium of all these tubes contains yellowish-brown pigment-granules of varying a' Fig. 892.—Section of the eight spebmatic cokd of an adult as seen fbom above. The section is taken somewhat above the middle of its length. (Eberth.) Magnified 11 diameters. O'./., cremasteric fascia; t.v., tunica vaginalis; O'.c., external cremaster muscle; v.i. internal spermatic veins ; u.e., external spermatic vein ; i?,., internal spermatic nerve : / lymph-vessels; G, internal spermatic artery; O'.i., internal cremaster muscle; v.d.^ vas deferens. size and of fatty nature. They are not confined to the epithelium, however, but are also seen in the connective-tissue cells, and even in the plain muscle- cells. They are best marked in the vesiculse seminales. G. Walker finds in connexion with the seminal vesicles of the guinea-pig and rat an accessory gland, which he terms the cocajuJaiing gland from the fact that its secretion acts like a ferment upon the secretion of the seminal vesicles, causing it to coagulate (Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. xxi. 1910). The part of the vas deferens which intervenes between the vesicula seminalis and the orifice of the duct into the urethra, is termed the ejacidatory duel. In the structure of its walls, which are deeply corrugated longitudinally, it resembles generally the ampullce and vesiculoe seminales.