532 STOMACH In some animals (porpoise, pig) the parietal cells lie each in a special pit formed by base- ment-membrane, communicating with the rest of the gland only by a narrow orifice. In the glandular stomach of birds they line secondary tubules which lead out of the main tube, this alone being lined by chief cells. In the frog and other amphibia the fundus glands have only parietal (oxyntic) cells, the ehief cells being altogether absent, but glands containing cells similar in appearance and function to the chief cells of the stomach are found in the oesophagus. Various observers have noted the occasional presence of leucocytes within the cytoplasm of the parietal cells. Harms ’ has deseribed mitoses in some of the cells of the fundus glands (both central and parietal) of the (growing) mouse. During the funetional aetivity of the stomach the cells of the gastric glands undergo changes which are strictly comparable to those described as occurring in the cells of the serous salivary glands. In the intervals of digestion the principal cells of the cardiac glands are enlarged and almost fill the lumen of the tubule. In this so-called ‘ resting ’ or ‘ loaded ’ condition they are in some animals granular throughout, while in others there is a small outer zone clear of granules. They become smaller and distinctly differentiated into two zones during aetivity, some of the granules being dissolved and discharged along with the seeretion, the rest tending towards the lumen of the gland so as to leave the outer part of each cell clear of Fig. 772.—Cross-section op fundus-glands prom the human stomach, showing the CONDITION OF THE CELLS DURING DIGESTION. (Biihm and V. Davidoff.) Magnified 500 diameters. (References as in fig. 771.) granules (fig. 767). After digestion has eeased the outer parts of the cells become again partially or wholly occupied by granules (Langley). Changes of a similar nature have also been seen by Langley and Sewall in the pepsin-forming oesophageal glands of the frog and newt—even in the living condition. On the other hand the parietal cells of the fundus glands are smaller during fasting, when they are angular in form (fig. 771). During digestion they become enlarged and more spheroidal, bulging out the tunica propria of the glands (fig. 772). R. Heidenhain stated that the central cells and the parietal cells of mammals undergo a similar change during digestion, both becoming at first enlarged and subsequently shrinking to less than their volume during rest. He found these changes to occur later in the parietal than in the central cells. An enlargement of the central cells during the period of aetivity seems, however, not to take place ; according to most recent authorities the parietal cells alone show such enlargement. The secreting cells of the pyloric glands undergo changes similar to those of the central cells of the fundus glands, becoming smaller with secretion. ^ Auat. Hefte, xli, 1!)10.