DEVELOPMENT OF ERYTHROCYTES IN CONNECTIVE TISSUE 381 now becoming disc-shaped, float (flg. 572, a, h). Finally the cavity extends through the cell-processes into those of neighbouring cells, and a vascular network (fig. 572, d) is produced; this becomes eventually united with pre-existing blood-vessels, so that the blood-corpuscles which have been formed within the cells in the manner described, get into the general circulation. This ‘ intracellular " mode of development of red blood-corpuscles ceases in most Fig. 572.—Development of vaso-formative connective-tissue cells into BLOOD-VESSELS. (Schafer.) h, a cell containing haemoglobin in a diffused form in the protoplasm; h', one containing coloured globules of varying size, and vacuoles ; h", a cell filled with coloured globules of nearly uniform size; /, /, developing fat-cells; a, an elongated cell with a cavity in its protoplasm occupied by fluid and by blood-corpuscles which are still globular ; b, a hollow cell, the nucleus of which has multiplied. The new nuclei are arranged around the wall of the cavity, the corpuscles in which have now become discoid ; 'c, shows the mode of union of a ‘ hsemapoietic ’ cell, which in this instance contains only one corpuscle, with the prolongation {bl) of a previously existing vessel; d, isolated capillary network formed by the junction of several vaso-formative cells; protoplasmic extensions growing out from the network(&, from a foetal sheep; the remainder from the new-born rat). animals before birth, although in those which are born very immature it may be continued for a short time after birth. Subsequently, although new vessels are formed in the same way, blood-corpuscles are not produced within them. The production of red blood-discs in the interior of cells of the connective tissue was first noticed in the subcutaneous connective tissue of the new-born rat, and subsequently in the embryos of a number of different animals.' Similar observations were made independently by Ranvier ^—who termed the connective-tissue cells concerned in the process ‘ vaso-formative ^ Schiifer, Proc. Roy. Soc. 1874, ^ Arch, de Phys. 1874,