195 STRUCTURE OF PLAIN MUSCLE in both plain and cardiac muscular tissue. The involuntary fibre-cells possess a delicate homogeneous external layer (fig. 294, b), which may, however, be only the external layer of the cytoplasm, and is by no means comparable to the sarcolemma of voluntary muscular fibres, although, like that, it is liable to be wrinkled when the fibre is contracted, so that an indistinct appearance of transverse Fig. 295.—Untouched photogb.^ph of a plain musculab fibbe-cell fbom the cat’s INTESTINE. (Schafer.) Magnified 450 diameters. The cell is broken across near the nucleus, which is indistinctly seen. At the broken part the finer internal fibrils are visible; over the rest of the cell the superficial coarser fibres are shown. Two or three incomplete knotted condensations are seen crossing the longitudinal axis of the cell. striation may thus be sometimes produced. The cells are united by a small amount of intercellular cementing substance which becomes stained by nitrate of silver. In some parts intercellular spaces appear, but they are bridged across, as in epithelia, by fine denticulations which connect the contractile substance Fig. 296.—Musculab fibbe-cells fbom SUPEBIOB THYBOID ABTEBY (man). (Schafer.) Magnified 340 diameters. into continuity from cell to cell so that the tissue forms a syn- cytimn (fig. 297).^ Each cell possesses a centriole close to its nucleus (fig. 298). The fibres are generally col- lected into larger and smaller fasciculi, which in many cases cross one another and interlace. The fasciculi are attached at their ends by connective tissue to the Fig. 297.—Muscle-cells of INTESTINE. (Szymonowicz.) Magnified 530 diameters. The fibres are represented in longitudinal section; and the interstices between them are seen to be bridged across by fine fibrils, i, interstice; n, nucleus. If •/f r m Fig. 298.—Plain muscle- FIBBE, SHOWING NU- CLEUS, CENTBIOLE, AND CYTOPLASM WITH FIBBILS. (v. Lenhos- sek.) membranous and firmer parts where they occur. In some cases the attachment of the plain muscular cells takes place by means of elastic fibres which bifurcate at the end of the muscular cell. The two branches extend along each side of this and are firmly attached to it. Between the fasciculi and even penetrating between the fibres in a fasciculus is fine con- nective tissue with numerous elastic fibres. Involuntary fibres, especially those of the intestines, often exhibit after fixation knotted condensations of their cytoplasm ^ For a description of these cell-bridges, see D. Barfurth, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxviii. 1891. o 2