NERVE-ENDINGS 254 involuntary muscle-cells (fig. 389) and teriuinate by tapered or bulbous extremities which are applied to the surfaces of the plain muscle-cells (fig. 390).' The plain muscular tissue of the mucous membrane (muscularis mucosre) is similarly supplied from a second gangliated plexus, known as the plexus of Meissner (see Plate, fig. B). In cardiac muscular tissue the nerves, which are non-medullated in their branches of distribution, form plexuses with very long meshes. The fine nerve-fibres be- come closely applied to the muscular fibres, many appearing to end in small bulbous extremities, but they do not, it is believed, penetrate into the muscular fibres. Accord- ing to Huber and de Witt,^ and Smirnow ^ the (non-medullated) nerve - fibres end in fine fibrils which form free ramifications which are spread over a greater or less extent of each nucleated segment of the tissue (fig. 391). Motor end-plates, such as occur in voluntary cross-striated muscle, have not been found in the heart. It is not known if there is any distinction be- tween the mode of termination of the inhibitory and accelerator fibres of the heart. The vagal fibres pass to the ganglia of the auricles and some may extend to those at the base of the ventricles. There is little donbt that these pre-ganglionic fibres all terminate by synapses around the ganglion- cells, and that by the axons of these cells the nerve-path is continued to the muscle-fibres. On the other hand, there is some reason to believe Fig. 389.—Nekve-fibres ending in plain that the accelerator fibres of the sympathetic MUSCLE, FROM INTESTINE OF GUiNEA-piG. (wliicli are post-gaiiglioiiic) go directly to the (Cajal.) musele-fibres and not by the intermediation of A, B, larger branches; a, 6, terminal twigs. peripheral ganglion-cells. n n Fig. 390.—Ending of nerve-fibres in plain muscle. (Huber and de Witt.) A and B, two plain muscle-cells with nerve-fibres, a, passing to them and ending at b, on the outside of the cell; )i, cell-nucleus. The motor nerves of voluntary muscles terminate in special expan- sions, to which the term motor end-flates has been applied. The term motor end- ^ Huber and de Witt, Journ. Morph, vii. 1898. F. B. Hoffmann (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixx. 1907) describes them as ending in networks and loops, and not by free extremities. “ Op. cit. Anat. Anz. xviii. 1901.