THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. Tlie alimentary canal from the commencement of the oesophagus to the end of the rectum is constructed on the same principle, viz. inform of a tube (fig. 758) composed of a mucous coat inside with a 7nuscular coat outside, the two being united by a quantity of loose connective tissue which has received the name of areola^' or submucous coat. The stomach and the greater part of the intestines are also enclosed within an invagination of the peritoneum, which thus furnishes a serous coat to those viscera. The mucous membrane is throughout formed of epithelium and corium, with a layer of plain muscular tissue, termed the muscularis mucosce, next to the submucous coat. The epithelium in the oesophagus is of the stratified scaly variety, in the stomach and intestines it is columnar. Fig. 758.—Diagram op section of alimentary tube. (Sobotta.) L, lumen ; glm, glands of mucous membrane ; ep, epithelium ; gls, glands in submucosa ; mm, muscularis mucosae ; svi, submucous coat; rm, circular muscular layer; Im, longitudinal muscular layer; s, serous coat; ss, mesentery; gmy, ganglion of plexus myentericus ; gsm, ganglion of plexus submucosus. In the oesophagus, as in the mouth and pharynx, small racemose mucous glands lie in and beneath the mucous membrane and send their ducts to open at its surface. In the stomach and intestines most of the glands are tubules, which open by innumerable mouths on the inner surface and are contained within the thickness of the mucous membrane. But in the commencement of the small intestine there are other glands {glands of Brunner) which lie in the submucosa and send their ducts from this through the mucosa to the surface. The muscular coat in all these parts of the alimentary canal is formed of two layers, an outer, with the bundles of fibres disposed longitudinally, and an inner, somewhat thicker, with the bundles disposed circularly. Between the two layers is a gangliated nervous plexus {plexus myentericus of Auerbach). Another, finer, gangliated plexuslies in the submucosa {plexus submucosus of Meissner). In the stomach there is a third incomplete layer of muscular fibres, which extends over the enlarged part or fundus, and the fibres of which run obliquely from the oesophageal opening (cardia) downwards and towards the pyloric part. In the stomach and intestines the muscular coat is composed only of plain muscle, but in the upper part of the oesophagus the muscular tissue of this coat is cross-striped ; lower down plain muscle-bundles