90 EPITHELIUM is found that they are confined to the part of the cell which is next to the free surface ; and, as already explained, this part becomes packed with them so that the cell-protoplasm is reduced to the form of a fine honeycomb-work between them. Fig. 117.—A goblet or mucus- secreting CELL IN COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM. (M. Heidenliain.) The centrosome is in the mucigenmass. An ordinary columnar cell is also shown. Fig. 148.—Columnar ciliated EPITHELIUM-CELLS FROM THE HUMAN NASAL MEMBRANE. (Sharpey.) Magnified 300 diameters. When secretion occurs the granules imbibe water and become swollen into clear globules of mucus, and the part of the cell containing them is distended into a chalice-like shape, as has already been explained. Finally, as the globules swell still more, they run together and are discharged at the free end of the cell in the form of a minute drop of mucus. After the discharge of the secretion a process of regeneration begins. The remainder of the protoplasm of the cell grows so as to occupy the empty cavity left by the discharge of the mucin, and the goblet-like appearance becomes lost by a diminution in size of this cavity. The cell again, therefore, assumes a more or less columnar shape, although this form is greatly modified by the pressure of the surround mg epithelium. After a time granules again become formed in and at the expense of the newly formed protoplasm, and these granules become converted into mucin-granules as before.^ Each goblet-cell possesses a double centriole which lies in the middle of the peripheral half of the cell, and therefore in the part where mucin is formed (fig. 147).^ Ciliated epithelium.—In this form of epithelium the cells are generally columnar (fig. 148), but are sometimes cubical. In the fresh condition the cilia appear to spring from a clear border. In certain ciliated cells of molluscs—as already indicated (figs. 149, 150)—it is possible to make out that the clear border contains a number of small juxtaposed bead-like particles (basal particles) to each of which is connected the base of a cilium. From the ciliated Fig, 149.—A ciliated epithelium-cell OF A MOLLUSC. (Eiigelmann.j ' M. Heidenliain, Anat. Anz. xviii. 1900. In the stomach of Triton Heidenhain finds the granules forming also in the striated border of the columnar cells, - Zimmermann, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898; also M. Heidenhain, loc. cit.