281 MU8CLE-SPINDLES intrafusal bundle, losing their medullary sheaths and being prolonged as axis- cylinders only, which run in an annular or spiral manner as flattened fibres around the muscle-fibres of the bundle, terminating with free, sometimes slightly enlarged, endings between the muscle-fibres {annulo-spiral endings) (figs. 444, 445). But they do not all terminate in this way, for some of the branches of the nerve-fibres are much finer than the rest, and these pass nearly straight along the muscle- fibres and terminate in an arborisation, the terminal twigs of which are applied to the surface of the muscle-fibre by means of finely branched localised expansions {flower-spray endings, fig. 443), not very unlike the ‘ end-plate ^ expan- sions of some motor-nerve endings. It is not, however, to be inferred from this that these represent motor-nerve fibres, for it would appear that they have their origin in common with the fibres of the annulo-spiral endings. Motor nerves and endings have also been described in the intrafusal muscle-fibres, but their presence here is somewhat doubtful. It sometimes happens that two or three muscle-spindles are enclosed in a common sheath. The nerves to the muscle-spindles are not the only sensory nerves of muscle. Giacomini, ‘ Ceccherelli,^ and A. 8. DogieP have described in some animals fine fibrils Fm. 446.—An afferent nerve-fibre termi- (derived from branching medullated nerve- tendinous ends of several muscle- fibres) which form an arborescent invest- fibres (toad). (Cecdierelli.) ment to the ends of the muscle-fibres, close to their tendinous attachment (fig. 446). Similar ramifications occur in the tendon itself, close to the muscle; small Pacinian corpuscles are also found in this situation. All of these, as well as the organs of Golgi in the tendon-bundles, doubtless aid in ministering to the ‘ muscular sense,' although this is generally regarded as being mainly the function of the muscle-spindles. ENDING OF NERVES IN ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. The special-sense organs show two main types of connexion of the sensory surface with the central nervous system (figs. 447, 448). One of these is in the main similar to the mode which has already been described in connexion with those sensory nerves of the skin which are distributed between the cells of the epidermis. Here the cell-body of the neurone is situated in a ganglion upon the nerve-root, and the nerve-cell-body from which the sensory nerve springs is in all cases originally bipolar, with two axons, one passing peripherally to ramify between the cells of the sensory surface and the other passing centrally to ramify in the grey matter of the adjoining part of the central nervous system, whether spinal cord, medulla oblongata, or pons. The gustatory and the auditory nerves conform to this type. In the other type, the nucleated cell-body of the sensory or recipient neurone is itself situated at the periphery between the cells of the sensory surface and sends its axon centrally towards the central nervous system, there to end by * Monit. zool. ital. ix. 1898. - Anat. Anz. xxiv. 1904. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Auat. Ixviii. 1906.