558 LARGE INTESTINE Abh. d. k. Sachs. Gcsellsch. d. Wiss. 1887 (blood- and lymph-vessels); E. Muller, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xl. 1802 (nerve-endings); Nicolas, Bull. d. 1. soc. d. sci. de Nancy, 1890 (glands) and Intern. Monatsehr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, viii. 1891 (epithelium of large intestine) ; Paneth, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxi. 1888 (glands); J. E. Schmidt, ibid. Ixvi. 1905; Stohr, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxiii. 1889 and ibid. li. 1898 (lymph-nodules) ; Tomarkin, Anat. Anz. viii. 1893 (glands); J. Voigt, Anat. Hefte, xii. 1899 (development of crypts of Lieberkiihn). THE LAHGE INTTESTINE. The large intestine extends from the ileocolic valve to the anus ; it is divided into the colon, with the ccECum and vermiform appendix, and the rectum. It has four coats, like those of the stomach and small intestine, viz.—serous, muscular, submucous, and mucous (see accompanying Plate). The serous coat is for the most part similar to that of the small intestine, except that, along the colon and upper part of the rectum, it is prolonged into numerous little projections, which enclose a certain amount of fat, and are termed Fig. 806.—Nerve-endings in the small, intestine OF THE GUINEA-PIG. (Cajal.) Silver-chromate preparation. a, b, c, d, small nerve-cells belonging to the inter- glandular plexus of the mucous membrane; e, f, cor- responding cells belonging to the nerve-plexus of the villi; M, nerve-fibres belonging to the plexus of Meissner, distributed to the muscularis mucosae. \ Fig. 807.—Outline sketch of a section of THE ascending COLON. (Allen Thomson.) Three-fourths natural size. s, serous covering; s', s', reflection of this at the attached border forming a short wide mesocolon between the folds of which the blood-vessels are seen passing to the colon; a, one of the appendices epiploicae hanging from the inner border ; I m, one of the three bands formed by the thickening of the longi- tudinal muscular coat; the dotted line re- presents the remainder of the longitudinal muscular coat, and the thick line within it, marked c m, represents the circular muscular layer; m, mucous membrane; r, the cres- centic bands or indentations which divide the sacculi. appendices epiploicce. It is usually incomplete on the posterior and mesial surfaces of the ascending and of the descending colon and of the first part of the sigmoid flexure; also on the posterior surface (and eventually on the lateral surfaces) of the second part of the rectum. The lowest part of the rectam is altogether extra- peritoneal. The muscular coat, like that of the other parts of the intestinal canal, consists of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres, although present to a certain extent all round the large intestine, are, in the caecum and colon, more thickly collected into three