L L 2 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. The salivary glands belong to the class of tubulo-racemose glands, the structure of which, as well as the changes undergone by their cells during secretion, has been already dealt with at some length (see pp. 424 to 440). It will therefore be only necessary here to refer to the special modifications of structure met with in the different glands of man and animals. The salivary glands proper of man comprise the 'parotid,, which is the largest and is entirely seroiis ; the siibmaxillary, which contains both serous and mucous alveoli, as well as serous cells in the form of ‘ crescents ’ in the mucous alveoli, and is there- fore a mixed gland ; and the sublingual, much the smallest of the three, which is in man mainly of the mucous type, but contains a certain number of serous cells in the otherwise ‘mucous/ alveoli. Fig. 748.—Sketch of a supekficial dissection of the face, showing the position of THE PAROTID AND SUBMAXILLARY GLANDS. (Allen Thomson.) Two-fifths natural size. X>, parotid gland; p', socia parotidis (a small separate portion of the gland); d, the duct of Stensen before it perforates the buccinator muscle; a, transverse facial artery; n, n, branches of the facial nerve emerging from below the gland; /, the facial artery passing out of a groove in the submaxillary gland and ascending on the face; sm, superficial portion of the sub- maxillary gland. In animals many differences are found. Thus, in rodents and insectivora the sublingual is purely mucous and the submaxillary purely serous; ‘ in the cat and dog the submaxillary is of mucous type, but with serous cells (‘ crescent ’ cells) at the periphery of the alveoli; in the dog there are mucous alveoli amongst the serous (R. Heidenhain); these also occur in the kitten, according to Metzner, but disappear with growth. The orbital gland of the cat and dog, which is closely similar in structure to the submaxillary, is also a mucous gland. This gland is placed, as its name implies, in the orbit, and sends its duct to open into the mouth on the inner surface of the cheek, near the second upper molar. It contains serous cells in the form of cre.scents.'^ The orbital (infraorbital) of the rabbit is a serous gland. In the guinea- pig Klein ^ de.scribed a small mucous gland attached to the parotid and sending its duct into ^ According to Cohoe these glands in the rabbit are not entirely serous (Amer. Journ. Anat. vi. 1906). ' Lavdowsky, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiii. 1877. ^ Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xxi. 1881.