198 CARDIAC AIUSCLE has not hitherto been proved to exist on these fibres, although there is a fine homogeneous peripheral layer which bounds the fibres and is probably the most superficial layer of the original undifferentiated protoplasm. This super- ficial layer is regarded by v. Palczewska,’ who has studied the cardiac muscular tissue in the human heart, and by M. Werner,- who has employed the hearts of various species of animals, as a true sarcolemma (see fig. 304). The muscular fibres of the heart freely divide and anastomose (figs. 303, 305), so that there is continuity throughout the whole of the myocardium* of both auricles and ventricles.^ There has been much discussion as to whether the muscular tissue of the mam- malian heart is to be regarded as consti- tuted of a number of uninucleated cells Fig. 303.—Muscular fibres from the HEART, MAGNIFIED, SHOMTNG NUCLEI, CROSS-STRLE, DIVISIONS, AND JUNCTIONS. (Scliweigger-Seidel.) The nuclei and cell-junctions are only represented on the right-hand side of the figure, which is diagrammatic. connected by bridges or whether it is a complete syncytium—i.e. formed of a continuous protoplasmic mass contain- ing nuclei at intervals, with the muscle- fibrils in complete continuity throughout. Fig. 304.—Longitudinal sections of portions of muscular fibres from the adult HUMAN HEART, SHOWING THE INTERSEGMENTAL OR INTERCELLULAR SEPTA AND THE NUCLEI, WITH UNDIFFERENTIATED PROTOPLASM (SARCOPLASM). (v. Palczewska.) In A, a septum is seen to jiass not only across the contractile fibrils but also across the cell- protoplasm. In B the pi’otoplasm is accumulated at the side of one of the cells represented, and the nucleus is also placed laterally: this is unusual. The investing membrane (sarcolemma?) is here shown. ’ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxv. 1910. 2 Q,p (,if Cf. Przewoski, Arch. d. sci. biol. St. Petersburg, ii. 1893 ; M. Heidenhain, Anat. Anz. xx. 1902, and Ergebn. d. Anat. viii. 1898; J. B. MacAllum, Anat. Anz. xiii. 1897; Godlewski, Bull. d. Krak. Akad. 1901; V. Ebner, in Kijlliker’s Handb. d. Crewebelehre, iii. 1902.