439 INFLUENCE OF CELL-NUCLEUS UPON SECRETION In goblet-cells, as well as in the cells of certain glands, such as the sebaceous glands of the skin, the Harderian gland found in many mammals, and the poison- glands of the amphibian integument, the secretion-granules become discharged by the breaking down either of the whole cell or of the part next to the free surface, in which the secretion is for the most part accumulated, rather than by the discharge of the individual granules from that surface, whether whole or in a dissolved form. Although the term ‘ granules ’ has been here used in speaking of the particles seen in secreting cells, it must be borne in mind that they are not necessarily of a solid nature, but may be liquid or semi-fluid. In such cases the term ‘ globules ’ would seem more appropriate. In the lacrymal gland they sometimes have a crescentic form.' The relationship of the granules formed within secreting cells to the mitochondria, which have been shown to be intimately concerned with the differentiation of flbrils and other intra- cellular structures, has not as yet been worked out, but it is not improbable that some secretion- Fig. 650.—Alveoli AND separated cells from salivary glands of the dog. (A. Maximow.j The preparations were stained with ‘light green ’ and saffranin (red). 1, A mucous alveolus from the submaxillary; 2, 3, 4, isolated cells from ‘ crescents ’ of the submaxillary; 5, a serous alveolus from the retrolingual gland; Z., lumen of alveoli; nuclei of mucous cells flattened against basement-membrane ; p., particles of chromatin extruded from nucleus. Similar particles are seen in 4. granules are produced by or from these particles, which are now known to be an important constituent of the protoplasm of most, if not of all cells, either throughout their life or at some period of their existence.^ Influence of the nucleus upon the formation of secretion-products: the paranucleus.—We have already seen (p. 59) that in many secreting cells the nucleus appears to take on a special activity. Although it has not been proved that the participation of the nucleus is a general phenomenon, there is, nevertheless, a considerable amount of evidence to show that this constituent of the cell may play an important part in the formation of secretion-products.^ This it appears to do by giving out into the adjacent protoplasm a portion of its chromatin (fig. 650) (which may take the form of nucleolar material) to furnish the basis from which the secretion- granules are gradually evolved in the metabolism of the cell. The substance extruded may for a time remain in the protoplasm as an independent mass of chromatic * B. Fleischer, Anat. Hefte, xxvi. 1904. See on this subject H, Hoven, Anat. Anz. xxxvii. 1910. Matthews, Journ. Morph, xv. 1899 (suppl.); Carlier, La Cellule, xvi. 1899 ; Maximow, Arch. f. mikr Anat. Iviii. 190i ; Walker and Tozer, Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology, ii. 1909.