OEGANB CONCERNED WITH THE FORMATION OF LYMPH-CORPUSCLES. The organs and tissues which in the adult are concerned with the formation of leucocytes are the lymph-glands and other lymphoid structures, such as the lymphoid nodules which occur in the mucous membrane of the alimentary and pulmonary mucous membranes, the lymphoid tissue which forms the tonsils, the lymphoid tissue of the spleen (Malpighian corpuscles) and the lymphoid tissue of the thymus. Of these various haemapoietic organs the lymph-glands, haemal glands, and spleen will be here dealt with, the thymus, tonsils, and lymph-nodules of mucous membranes being described later. ^ It is held by many authorities (p. 391) that the granular and the polymorph leucocytes have their seat of formation in bone-marrow; some of the cells of Fig. 593.—Diagrammatic section of lymphatic gland. (Sharpey.) a.l., aflferent; e.l., efferent lymphatics. C, cortical substance. M, reticulating cords of medullary substance. Z.s., lymph-sinus; c, fibrous coat sending trabeculae, tr., into the substance of the gland. this tissue have been looked upon as a possible source of origin of thrombocytes also. If this is so, bone-marrow, especially the red variety, must be regarded as an organ-system adapted for producing all the different kinds of corpuscular elements found in blood. As already mentioned, it is not certainly known where destruction of leucocytes mainly occurs, altliough many are lost by migration into the alimentary canal. But a certain number of leucocytes as well as of erythrocytes are destroyed by phagocytes in the spleen and hsemal lymph-glands ; this may also happen in the ordinary lymph-glands. ^ For an account of blood-forming organs in general see M. Lbwit, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxviii. 1891; Weidenreich, Ergebn. d. Anat. 1908, 1904, and Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixv. 1905. For the lymph- glands in particular see Bertel and Stein, Arch. f. Anat. 1905 and 190G ; for hamial glands the various papers mentioned in footnote 2 on page 402. For a discussion of the relation of bone-marrow to leucocyte production see li. Muir, Journ. Path, and Bact. vii. 1901.