DEVELOPMENT OF LYMPH-VESSELS 361 Development of lymph-vessels.—Until a few years ago little was definitely known as to the manner in which lymph-vessels are developed, but this question can now be regarded as being considerably more advanced towards settlement, owing especially to the researches of Florence R. Sabin ^ and F. T. Lewis. Danger ^ was the first to notice that in the frog lymphatics grow as blind sprouts in exactly the same manner as do blood-vessels. Ranvier,* later, described their development as centrifugal in the embryo pig: he further suggested that lymphatics take origin as outgrowths from veins. Ranvier stated that the thoracic duct throws out buds, which at first are solid, but later become converted into channels. Whenever a bud is formed it possesses a dilated end, and from this there arises a narrower bud which grows further into the surrounding tissue, and itself gradually becomes dilated. The dilated ends of the successive buds give rise to the valves of the Rmphatic system. In the omentum of the newly born kitten there exist a large number of lymphatics ending in blind diverticula; these vessels completely disappear by the time the kitten is three months old. Gulland,^ on the other hand, thought that lymph-vessels arise at the periphery and grow towards the blood-vessels, finally opening into the latter. GuUand states that before definite lymphatic vessels are developed there appear in the subcutaneous connective tissue inter- communicating spaces between the lamellar connective-tissue cells and the white fibrous tissue to which the cells have given rise. The spaces are filled by fluid which has exuded from the Fig. 550.—Relation oe the lymph-sac AND DUCT TO THE CARDINAL VEIN IN A PIG-EMBRYO 14'5 MM. LONG. Mag- nified 170 diameters. (Sabin.) S, lymph-sac, communicating through another vessel with the interior of the vein. Fig. 551.—Diagram of the mode of formation of the lymphatic from the venous SYSTEM. (Mann.) a, a main vein with lateral branches; h, partial atrophy of the branches and formation of blind sacs communicating with the veins and filled with blood ; c, loss of communication with the main vein, and blending of the sacs into a single closed sac, still occupied by blood; d, secondary connexion of the sac, which is now enlarged, with the main vein; e, budding out of lymph-vessels from the sac, the blood from which has been discharged into the vein. blood-vessels, and which percolates along from the distal ends of the limbs to their proximal ends ; in doing so it is supposed gradually to make for itself definite channels in the subcu- taneous tissue; and the eells lining the ever-widening channel to beeome converted into flattened elements—the lymphatic endothelial eells. In the light of more recent researches Gulland’s 1 Amer. Journ. Anat. i. 1902 ; iii. 1901; iv. 1905 ; Anat. Record, ii. 1908; Amer. Journ. Anat. ix. 1909. ^ Amer. Journ. Anat. v. 1905. ^ Sitzungsb. d. k. k. Akad. d. Wiss. Iviii. 1808. Comptes Rendus, 1895-1890; Arch, d’anat. micr. 1897. “ Journ. of Pathol, and Bact. ii. 1894.