417 STOMATA The endothelium-cells of a serous mcinbraue are connective-tissue cells of the lamellar type. In some situations they are the only cells in the tissue. This is the case, for example, in the omentum of the cat.' Here and tliere between the cells apertures are to be seen, which are of two kinds. The smaller (fig. 618), which are also the more numerous, are occupied either by an accumulation of the intercellular substance or by processes sent up to the surface of the membrane from more deeply lying cells {'pseudostomata of Klein and Burdon-Sanderson) : the larger ones, on the other hand, are true apertures {stomata), around which the endothelial cells have a tendency to a radial arrangement: they are in some situations surrounded by a ring of small cubical cells (fig. 619, s, s). The true stomata always open into a subjacent lymphatic vessel, either directly or by the medium of a short canal lined with cubical cells. The surface cells of the serous The stomata were discovered in the peritoneal covering of the central tendon of the diaphragm by v. Reck- linghausen, who found that milk- globules could be made to pass through them into the lymphatics. Similar apertures were found by Ludwig and Dybkowsky in the pleura of mammals, and by Schweigger- Seidel and Dogiel in the septum between the peritoneal cavity of the frog and the great lymph-sac (cis- terna magna) behind it (fig. 620). They have since been described on the omentum by Klein, and have also been recognised in the pericardium. They are not always easy to find,'^ but their existence can readily be shown by introducing fluid containing very Fig. 619.—Small portion of peritoneal surface of DIAPHRAGM OF RABBIT. (Klein.) Magnified. I, lymph-channel below the surface, lying between tendon-bundles, t, t, and over which the surface-cells are seen to be relatively smaller, and to exhibit five stomata, s, s, leading into the lymphatic. The epithelium of the lymphatic channel is not represented. fine granules in suspension into the peritoneal cavity of a living animal, and examining the lymphatics of the central tendon after the lapse of an hour or two. They are very easily seen in microscopic preparations of the dorsal peritoneum of the frog. membrane are not everywhere uniform in size, but patches are here and there met with in which they are small and granular in appearance, and it is in these parts that the stomata and pseudo-stomata are most frequently seen (figs. 618, 619). Underneath the endothelium the membrane is composed of a connective-tissue ground-substance in which are fibres, both white and elastic. The elastic fibres in many serous membranes, as remarked by Henle, are principally collected into a reticular layer near the surface (fig. 621), although they also pervade the rest of the thickness of the membrane. The bundles of white fibres are also arranged in a reticular manner, frequently uniting with one another, and the meshes of the reticulation which they form are occupied by the ground-substance of the membrane, and bridged over by the flattened cells of the general surface. In some of the folds formed by serous membranes and especially in the great omentum of many animals, including man, the meshes of the reticulation have become open in many parts owing to the absorption of the intervening ground-substance and the ^ Gronroos, Anat. Hefte, xxii. 1903. - A. W. Meyer, Studies from the Anat. Depart, of the University of Wisconsin, 1900. VOL. II. PART I. EE