CAPILLARIES 343 % CAPILLARIES. That the blood passes from the extreme arteries into the veins was a necessary part of the doctrine of the circulation, as demonstrated by Harvey in 1628 ; but the mode in which the passage takes place was not ascertained until some time after the date of his great discovery. The finding of the capillary vessels, and of the course of the blood through them, was in fact one of the first fruits of the use of the microscope in anatomy and physiology, and was reserved for Malpighi in 1661. When the web of a frog’s foot is viewed through a microscope of moderate power (as in fig. 526), the blood is seen passing rapidly along the small arteries, and thence more slowly through a network of finer channels, by which it is con- ducted into the veins. The small vessels interposed between the finest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins are the capillary vessels. The course of the blood in these may also be conveniently seen in the lungs or mesentery of the frog, in the external gills and the tail of tadpoles ; in the tail of small fishes ; in the wing of the bat; in the mesentery of small quadrupeds; and generally in the trans- parent vascular parts of animals which can be brought under the microscope. These vessels can also be demonstrated by means of fine injections of coloured material, not only in membranous parts, such as those above mentioned, but also in sections of organs and tissues, which may be viewed as trans- parent objects, or which, if opaque injection-masses have been used, can be viewed in reflected light. The capillary vessels of a part are most com- monly disposed in a network, the branches of which are of nearly uniform size, though not all strictly equal; and thus they do not divide into smaller branches like the arteries, or unite into larger ones like the veins. But the diameter of the tubes, as well as the shape and size of the reticular meshes which they form, differs in different tex- tures. Their prevalent size in the human body may, speaking generally, be stated at from 7 to 8 micromillimetres as measured when naturally filled with blood. Animals injected under normal pressure with isotonic salt-solution, followed by 20 per cent, formalin in isotonic salt-solution, never show capillaries which are less in diameter than the red blood- corpuscles of the animal experimented on. The extreme branches of the arteries and veins in certain parts of the synovial membranes are connected by capil- lary loops which are considerably dilated at their point of flexure, and dilata- tions are also found upon the transverse capillaries of the red muscles of the rabbit. There are great differences in the size or widtli of the meshes of the capillary network in different parts, and consequently in the number of vessels distributed in a given space, and the amount of blood supplied to the tissue. The network is very close in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye, and comparatively close in muscle, in fat, in the skin, and in most mucous membranes, as, for example, those of the mouth and nasal cavities ; also in glands and other secreting structures, and in the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord. It has wide meshes and relatively few vessels in the ligaments, tendons, and other allied textures. In infants and young persons, the tissues are comparatively more vascular than in after-life. Fig. 526. — Capillaky blood-ves- sels IN THE WEB OF A FROG’S FOOT, AS SEEN WITH THE MICRO- SCOPE. (After Allen Thomson.) The arrows indicate the course of the blood.