THE HLOOD 366 of which is ruled in squares, of a definite dimension (usually mm.). If now a covering glass is placed over the cell so as to touch the drop, the latter will form a layer of the mixture mm. deep, and the part above each square will represent a cube of liquid the sides of which measure mm. By counting the number of corpuscles in ten such squares, after allowing them time to subside, and multiplying the result by 10,000, the number in a cubic millimetre of the blood is obtained. In the actual instrument the larger squares are subdivided into smaller for convenience of counting. The methods of Hayem and Nachet, Gowers, and Thoma are based on the above principle.' The average results obtained by recent investigators agree closely with the original estimates of Vierordt and Welcker.'^ For the enumeration of the leucocytes and thrombocytes special methods of preparation and staining as well as a less dilution of the blood are employed. BED CORPUSCLES OF THE BLOOD; ERYTHROCYTES. Shape and Size.—The human erythrocytes are not spherical, as the name ‘ globules,’ by which they were formerly designated, would seem to imply, but Fig. 555.—Human red blood-corpuscles. (Schafer.) Photograph. Magnified 650 diameters. flattened (fig. 554 and fig. 555), with a nearly circular outline, like a coin. When examined on a glass slide in the usual way they present a shallow cup-like depres- sion or dimple on both surfaces ; their usual figure is, therefore, that of biconcave discs. Sometimes they appear dimpled on the one surface and very slightly convex on the other (cup-shaped). According to Weidenreich^ this is the normal condition in mammals : the biconcave shape being the result of evaporation of water during exposure in preparing the specimen. But this opinion, although shared by F. T. Lewis,'* Kadasch,'^ and a few other histologists, cannot be accepted, ' G. Oliver (Croonian Lectures, Lancet, 1896, vol. i.) has introduced a method of estimating the number of red blood-corpuscles without the labour of enumeration. Many valuable observations on the conditions alfecting their number will be found in this article. See also ‘ The Blood and Blood- pressure,’ London, 1901, by the same author. Other observations and references are collected in the article ‘ Blood ’ in Schiifer’s Textbook of Physiology, 1898, by the editor, and in that on ‘ Blood and Lymph ’ by Boruttau in Nagel’s Handbuch der Physiologie, 1910. P. B. Hawk (Amer. Journ. Physiol, x. 1904) found a higher number—viz., 5,600,000 per cub. mm.— as the blood-count of healthy young men taking regular exercise: he gives the mean blood-count for the leucocytes as 8,800, i.e, 1 to nearly 640 erythrocytes. The number of both was increased immediately after exercise (see footnote 1, p. 387). ^ Ergebn. d. Anat. 1903, 1904, and 1909; Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixi. 1903, Ixix. 1906. ' Journ. Med. Research, x. 1904. Anat. Anz. xxviii. 1906. Radasch states that the erythrocytes of the child and embryo are mostly cup-shaped, but appears to have studied them chiefiy in sections of fixed tissues.