332 HLOOD-VES.SELS the cell-spaces of the tissue (fig. 514). This layer exists as a thin stratum in all medium-sized arteries. 3. An elastic layer. The elastic tissue is represented by one distinct lamina, which is separated from the endothelium by the subendothelial layer. It is, on its outside, in direct contact with the non-striped muscle of the middle layer. When discussing the small arteries the development of the elastic lamina will be gone into, and therefore it will suffice now to point out that this so-called ‘ internal elastic lamina ^ is membranous in character. The membrane is not, however, a con- tinuous one as it appears to be in the section of the tibial artery of man (fig. 511), but is perforated by apertures, as shown in the micro- photograph of the cutaneous artery of the dog (fig. 515, a). This ‘ per- forated " or ‘ fenestrated ’ membrane of Henle closely resembles the elastic laminae of the aorta, to be described hereafter. middle coat {tunica media) (fig. 511, c, and fig. 515, h).—This consists of plain muscular tissue, in fine bundles, disposed circularly round the vessel, and consequently tearing ofi in a circular direction, although the individual bundles do not form complete rings. The considerable thickness of the walls of the arteries is due chiefly to this coat; in the smaller ones it is thicker than in the larger in comparison with the calibre of the vessel. In large vessels it is made up of many layers. Although, generally speaking, the muscle-fibres are arranged trans- versely to the long axis of the vessel, * one finds in certain situations, such as the lower reaches of the iliac arteries, and at the places where the abdominal branches of the aorta are given off, a number of oblique and occasionally even longitudinal fibres. In addition to the non-striped muscle is also found white fibrous tissue which helps to bind the muscle-fibres together ; also elastic tissue to a variable extent. Thus we find (fig. 515) one set of cir- cular elastic fibres running parallel to the lumen of the vessel, and in addition to these a great many oblique fibres. Many of the apparent circular fibres are membranes which have been cut across, with ridges running partly longitudinally■ and partly transversely. The elastic fibres of the middle coat in many cases break up the muscular substance into distinct bundles (fig. 512). Fiti. 515.—Small cutaneous artery, dog. (Mann.) Weigert’s method for elastic fibres was employed. a, the internal elastic lamina showing perforations. h, the tunica media with fine elastic fibres. At the junction of h and c is the external elastic lamina; c, the tunica adventitia with coarse elastic fibres. Fig. 514.—Cell-spaces op sub-endothelial LAYER OF ARTERY (POSTERIOR TIBIAL). 250 diameters. (Schafer.) The ground-substance is stained by nitrate of silver, and the cell-spaces of the tissue are thus made manifest as white patches, the contained cells not being seen.