SALIVARY GLANDS 516 Stensen’s duct. Various authors have noticed that in the parotid of the dog mucous alveoli are frequently found amongst the serous alveoli, and this condition has occasionally been seen in man.' The parotid g'land (fig. 748).—The parotid duct {duct of Stensen) opens on the inner surface of the cheek opposite the second upper molar-tooth. It is lined by- long columnar epithelium-cells in two rows, resting on a basement-membrane ; its wall is formed outside this by connective tissue and by plain muscle disposed circularly. Traced back into the gland the duct branches again and again, its epi- thelium becoming short and simple; the branches finally merge into intraglandular ducts {salivary ducts) of uniform diameter, lined by a single layer of wedge-shaped columnar cells, set on a basement-membrane, and almost filling the lumen of the duct. The cells lining these salivary ducts are in the parotid less distinctly striated in their outer zone than those of the submaxillary and sublingual. They stain deeply with haematoxylin and stand out prominently in sections of the gland. Fig. 749.—View of the eight submaxil- LAEY AND SUBLINGUAL GLANDS FEOM THE inside. (Allen Thomson.) Part of the right side of the jaw, divided from the left at the symphysis, remains; the tongue and its muscles have been removed ; and the mucous membrane of the right side has been dissected off and hooked upwards so as to expose the sublingual glands; s m, the larger superficial part of the submaxillary gland; f, facial artery passing through it; s ni\ deep portion prolonged on the inner side of the mylo-hyoid muscle ni h ; s I, s I', sublingual gland; d, d', duct of Wharton; h, hyoid bone; n, lingual nerve ; to the left of d', is the submaxillary ganglion and the chorda tympani nerve. Fig. 750.—Human submaxill.aey gland. (R. Heidenhain.) To the right of the figure is a group of mucous alveoli, to the left a group of serous alveoli. The salivary ducts lead into or from the lobules of the gland by narrow inter- mediary or lobular ductules of moderate length. These branch within the lobule and finally end in the ultimate lobules, which are formed of groups of more or less spherical alveoli. The alveoli of the parotid possess only serous cells. These in the fresh condition have a granular aspect; but the granules become destroyed under the action of most fixing reagents, so that in stained preparations they are not seen, having apparently been replaced by clear substance. After secretion the granules are few in number, and confined chiefly to the neighbourhood of the lumen. In this condition, in stained preparations, the protoplasm, being comparatively free from granules, is more deeply coloured than in the resting gland. The submaxillary g-land.—This gland in man has both mucous and serous alveoli (fig. 750). The mucous alveoli contain also serous cells, which lie between the mucous cells and the basement-membrane, forming crescentic patches (figs. 750,751, ^ For the cliaracfcer of the salivary glands in domestic animals see Illing, Anat. Hefte, xxvi. 1904 ; in the macaque monkey, ihid. xxxiv. 1907.