UASTKIG GLANDS 581 Tliese cells yield pepsin, but none of tlie acid of the gastric juice. Amongst the ordinary cells of tliese glands some are here and there found which stain with osmic acid much more deeply than the rest. The nature and function of these cells, which were described by Nussbaum, is not known. They are not identical with the parietal cells of the fundus-glands. Occasionally, true parietal cells have been noticed in the pyloric glands and even in Brunner’s glands in the duodenum. The g-lands of the fundus (figs. 767, 768, and accompanying Plate), whicJi are found over the whole extent of the mucous membrane except in the pyloric canal and in a zone quite ■•lose to the cardiac orifice, possess in their secreting tubules two kinds of gland-cells. In a cross- section of a tubule, those of the one Idnd, wedge-shaped and more or less filled with very distinct granules, are seen to lie next to the lumen of the tube ; the cells of the other kind, large, oval, and very finely granular, lie between Fig. 770.—P.vrt of tujiule of FUNDUS GLAND OF THE STOMACH, WITH THE LUMEN AND SECRE- TORY CANALICULI STAINED ; THE GLAND-CELLS .\RE ALSO SHOWN. (Zimmermami.) Highly magni- Fig. 771.—Cross-section of fundus glands from the HUMAN STOMACH, showing THE CONDITION OF THE CELLS DURING FASTING. (Buhm and A-. Davidoff.) Magnified 500 diameters. c, central cell; /, lumen of gland; parietal cell; f, connective tissue between glands. fied. c, chief or central cells ; p, parietal cells ; /, lumen of tubule prolonged into ai'borescent canaliculi which penetrate into the parietal cells. these and the basement-membrane, which is generally bulged out by them. From this difierence of relative position the cells have been termed respectively the central and the 'parietal cells. They are also known as the chief cells (Hauptzellen) and the superadded their supposed functions, the pepsin-formin'j and secretion of the parietal cells, which are separated from the lumen of the tubule by the central cells, is convoyed avay by exten- sions of the gland-lumen in the form of ramifying secretory canaliculi (figs. 769, 770). The parietal cells are most numerous near the pait of the secieting tiibule whicli opens into the duct of the gland. Sometimes they occur in the duct itself (see accompanying Plate), or even under the epithelium of the geneial suiface of the stomach. cells (Belegzellen) ; or, the acid-forming cells.' from The 1 Oxyntic cells (Langley), from acid. IM IM 2