19 KETICULUM IN PROTOPLASM muuicating interstices (fig. 27) is illusory, and that the actual structure of all protoplasm is that of a honeycomb, the partitions of which are formed of more solid matter than the contents of its cavities, and give in optical section the appearance of a net or sponge (fig. 28). This view is expressed by the terms foam- or honeycomb-structure of frotoylasm, and has found acceptance by many cytologists.* But both a spongy and a honeycomb appearance may well occur in different samples of protoplasm, for in the jellying of colloidal solutions either one or the other may show itself, according to the concentration of the solution (Hardy) (seep. 11). It is, however, clear, as already mentioned, that the results of Hardy and others regarding the action of fixative agents npon colloid solutions should render one careful in drawing conclusions from the action of the same fixatives upon protoplasm, and in every case it behoves us if possible to ascertain (1) the existence of the structure in question in the living protoplasm before it has been subjected to the action of a fixative ; (2) whether, if the apparent structure is pre-existent, it is modified by the fixative ; (3) whether different strengths of the same fixative, or different kinds of fixative, give rise to an apparent structure, which is identically the same under all conditions. If (1) can be proved for any particular sample of cell-protoplasm, it follows that, at least in that kind of cell, there does exist a preformed differentiation which takes the form of a network or spongework or honeycomb of more refractive (and probably therefore less fluid) material enclosing a more fluid substance in its meshes; and similarly, if (3) be answered affirmatively, it is extremely probable that (1) is also true, and that the network seen after the action of the reagent is the accentuation under the influence of the fixative of a pre-existent Fig. 29.—Reticulab pkotoplasmic stbuctube in a pseudopodium op A FOBAMiNiFER (miliola). (Verwom, after Biitschli.) network. Now, although from what has already been said as to the absence of all appearance of structure in the living protoplasm of Amoeba Umax it cannot be affirmed in the present state of knowledge that all protoplasm is differentiated into spongioplasmic and hyaloplasmic parts, neither can it be denied that the protoplasm of very many cells gives an affirmative answer to (3), and of others to (1) also (see figs. 15 and 29). From which it must be concluded that an apparent network is a common differentiation in cell-protoplasm, although such appearance of structure is not essential to the idea of protoplasm. And this is indeed what might be expected from Hardy’s observations on colloid solutions, which very readily, on change in their physical or chemical surroundings (heat, galvanic currents, electro- lytes), tend partially to pass out of solution in the form of an aggregation of particles, which most generally takes on the appearance of a network or spongework with more fluid interstices, but sometimes of a honeycomb with fluid droplets enclosed by more solid material. If cell- protoplasm is essentially a colloid solution, this may also, as a result of chemical and physical changes taking place in vivo within the cell, undergo a transformation similar to that which occurs in a colloid solution in vitro ; and thus a structural differentiation would be produced which may either become permanent, or may go and come with changing conditions within the cells, as is the case with Hardy’s irreversible and reversible ‘ gels.’ In point of fact. 1 E.g. 'E. B. Wilson, The Cell in Development and Inheritance, 1896; 2nd edition, 1904, and O. Hertwig, Allgemeine Biologie C 2