STOMACH 62G pylorus itself they are gathered into a thick bundle, which forms, within a circular fold of mucous membrane, a well-marked projection—the j)yloric sphincter. Some of the circular fibres appear to be continued from those of the oesophagus, spread- ing from its right side. The innermost muscu- lar layer is incomplete, and consists of the oblique fibres (fig. 762, C). These are continuous with the cir- cular fibres of the gullet, on the left of the cardiac orifice, where they form a considerable stratum; from that place they de- scend obliquely upon the anterior and posterior sur- faces of the stomach, where they spread out from one another, and, taking the direction of the circular fibres, gradually disappear amongst these on the greater curvature. The submucous coat connects the muscular and mucous coats (fig. 761, sm.). It consists of areolar tissue, in which occasional fat-cells may be found; it is the seat of division and passage of the blood- vessels and contains a plexus of lymph-vessels and a gangliated nervous plexus. The internal coat or mucous membrane is a smooth, soft, rather thick and pulpy membrane, which during life and im- mediately after death has Fig. 702.—Sketch of the arrangement of the fibres in the muscular coat of the STOMACH. (Allen Thomson.) One-third natural size. A, external layer of longitudinal fibres, as seen from the outside; B, middle layer of circular fibres as seen on removing the longitudinal layer; C, oblique fibres exposed by removing some of the fibres of the circular layer, the cut edges of which are seen below the small curvature. c, the cardiac end; 2h ^^e pyloric end. In A are shown the stronger longitudinal fibres passing along the small and large curvatures, and all round the pyloric end, and radiating from the end of the gullet over the front (and back) of the stomach ; in B, the nearly uniform layer of circular fibres, iu two sets crossing each other obliquely at o, and at the cardiac end becoming concentric to the centre of the great cul-de-sac; in C, the oblique fibres, oh, oh', which form a continuation of the circular fibres of the gullet and spread from the left side of the cardia, gradually merging into the deeper circular fibres, with which finally they entirely blend.