15 PKOTOPLASM multiplication by division; change of shape and place (locomotion); intake, digestion, and assimilation of food; excretion, and a localised intermittent con- tractility which serves to disseminate accumulated fluid material through the cell-substance, and perhaps to eject it from the organism. Nevertheless, even under the highest powers of the microscope, and with the aid of the most modern methods of investigation, its protoplasm shows no appearance of structure (fig. 13).' It must therefore be admitted that visible structure is not essential to living cell-protoplasm, and it may accordingly be represented diagrammatically as a homogeneous material (fig. 14a)." A distinction between a granular and sometimes vacuolated part of the protoplasm in which the nucleus is embedded, and which may occupy a consider- able part of the cytoplasm, and a clear external part or layer, is sometimes very Fig. 15.—Untouched photogeaph of living leucocyte OF Triton, showing reticular structure of the PROTOPLASM. (Schafer.) Magnified 1360 diameters. The photograph was taken in monochromatic light with Zeiss’ 2 mm. apochromatic objective and projective eye- piece. The polymorph nucleus also exhibits a reticular structure. Pig. 16.—A cartilage cell IN the living state, from THE S.ALAMANDER. Highly magnified. (Flemming.) W Fig. 17.—Column.\r epithe- LIUM-CELLS SHOWING LINES OF GRANULES. (Altmanii.) apparent in unicellular organisms like the amoeba (fig. 13). The terms endo'plasm and ectoplasm have been employed to indicate this difference of appearance ; although it is not certain that there is always a difference of actual structure in the two parts. But in many cells a differentiation indicative of a reticulated structure (fig. 14b) can be seen even in the living unaltered protoplasm (fig. 15). Fibrils within cell-protoplasm.—In many cells—indeed, in most cells of the higher animals—structures which can be seen only with difficulty, or not at all, in the living condition of the cell appear distinctly after the cell* has been fixed by reagents. The structure is generally in the form of a network of threads or as separate filaments (fibrils) of extreme tenuity (fig. 16), or their place may be taken by lines of granules (fig. 17). These appearances when present in the living cell are ' In the ectoplasm of Amoeba terricola, Greeff has described a radiate fibrillar structure (Marburg Verhandlungen, 1890) similar to that described by Strasburger in the ectosarc of the myxomj'^cete CEthalium septicum (Studien in Protoplasma, 1876). ^ Cf. Lukjanow, Grundziige einer allgera. Path. d. Zelle, 1891.