139 DEVELOPMENT The proportion which the fibrous bundles bear to the true cartilage difiers much in different examples of this tissue. In general the fibrous tissue very greatly predominates, and in some cases, as in the interarticular laminae of the knee-joint, it constitutes almost the entire structure, but cartilaginous tissue with characteristic cells predominates near the surfaces. In the intervertebral discs the cartilage- corpuscles are, as already stated, more abundant towards the central pulp than near the periphery. The centre of the pulp itself does not, however, contain cartilage-cells, but a reticulated cell-structure imbedded in soft matrix, derived from the cells of the chorda dorsalis of the embryo. In all the symphyses the cartilage which is in immediate contiguity with the bony surfaces is hyaline. Vessels and nerves of cartilag*e.—In the healthy state, no blood-vessels penetrate the articular cartilages. Whatever nutrient fluid they require seems to be derived from the vessels of adjoining textures, especially the bone, and to be conveyed through the tissue by imbibition. Towards the circumference of the Fig. 224.—White fibro-cartilage from an intervertebral disc (human.) (Schafer.) Highly magnified. The concentric lines around the cells indicate the limits of deposit of successive capsules. One of the cells has a forked process which extends beyond the hyaline area surrounding the cell, amongst the fibres of the general matrix. cartilage, however, underneath the synovial membrane, the synovial vessels form a narrow vascular border round it, which has been named the circulus articuli vasculosus. When the tissue exists in thicker masses, as in the cartilages of the ribs, canals are here and there excavated in its substance, along which vessels are conducted for the nourishment of the parts too distant to receive it from the vessels of the perichondrium. But these canals are few and wide apart, and the vessels do not pass beyond them to ramify in the intermediate mass, which is accordingly quite extravascular. Besides blood-vessels these canals usually contain a number of cells resembling leucocytes, a few connective-tissue corpuscles, and in places some connective-tissue fibres. The contents of the canals are sometimes spoken of as ‘ cartilage-marrow.’ The cartilage-cells in the immediate neighbourhood of the canals are disposed as at the surface of the cartilage—i.e. they are flattened conformably to the wall of the canal. No nerves have been traced into any of the cartilages, and they are known to be destitute of sensibility. DEVELOPMENT OP CARTILAGE. The parts of the embryo which are to become cartilages are made up at first of the common mesenchyme-cells from which the connective tissues generally originate. After a time the cell-contents become clearer, the nucleus more distinct, and the cells, mostly of polygonal outline, appear surrounded by clear lines of pellucid substance, forming as it were a network of bright meshes enclosing them, but in reality consisting of the cohering capsules of the contiguous cells, and