1()6 BONE cylindrical foi’iii of the shaft is maintained, however, by the thickness of the periosteal bone being greater at the centre (where the deposition of bone first began, and has been longest proceeding) than at the ends. From this part it gradually diminishes to a thin layer immediately investing that part of the cartilage into which the calcification is extending, so that the intramembranous subperiosteal ossification on the outside may be said closely to accompany, even to precede, the calcification of the cartilage in the interior. Either this investment of periosteal bone, or the calcification of the cartilage, seems to hinder the lateral expansion of that part of the cartilage in which the calcification is proceeding ; but immediately beyond, the interstitial expansion menfioned takes place. . By the time that the ossification has advanced to the extremities of the shaft, the enlarged and expanded end of the cartilage has extended itself over the subperiosteal layer, so that this, with the accompany- ing osteoblastic tissue, now seems to lie Fig. 254.—Longitudinal section THKOUGH THE PEBIOSTEAL THICK- ENING OF A BONE AT ABOUT THE SAME STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT AS THAT REPRESENTED IN FIG. 248. (Schiifer.) c, cartilage with the cells in rows ; the tissue of the periosteal thickening is sharply marked off from it except near the surface; p, outer layer of the periosteum; i, inner layer of the periosteum or subperiosteal tissue, with osteogenic fibres and osteoblasts. One or two blood-vessels are observed cut across. Fig. 255,—Section through knee-joint of EIGHT-DAY RABBIT. (A. Bidder.) CO, canal carrying osteoblastic tissue from the diaphysis of the femur to its epiphysis ; cv, vascular canal in cartilage ; p^ periosteal bone ; c, epiphysis in end of femur; e', epiphysis in head of tibia, containing an island of unossified cartilage; P, cartilaginous patella. in a groove or notch (fig. 248, p) in the cartilaginous head of the bone (Ranvier). This groove is filled with the same tissue as that which underlies the rest of the periosteum—namely, a vascular tissue with branched cells and osteoblasts and osteogenie fibres. The latter are prolonged from the periosteal bone, and have for the most part a longitudinal direction (fig. 254). The tissue which fills this periosteal notch appears to become gradually converted by a metaplastic process into cartilage in the same way as the superficial part of a rib cartilage is formed by conversion of the deeper layers of the perichondrium (see p. 13fi). Thus, besides the interstitial growth and expansion of the cartilaginous end, there is a constant new formation of cartilage going on at its surface.