FORMATION OF GERM-CELLS 55 is then ready to undergo the divisions by which the mature ovum and polar globules, or by which the spermatids, are produced.* There is another peculiarity sometimes observable in these changes of the germ-cells which may be here alluded to. This is the so-called tetrad formation. It consists in the chromosomes Fig. 92.—Some stages in the maturation of the egg of the babbit. (Winiwater.) Magnified 1700 diameters. a, nuclear network converted into delicate looping threads; h, synaptic prophase (fine threads); c, synaptic prophase (thick threads); d, nucleus now occupied by double filaments ; e, double chromosomes. which have been produced in the manner above described becoming connected together into groups of four, which are known as tetrads. These take the form either of quadruple bundles of chromatin rods or of minute squares with a chromatin par- ^ tide at each corner, or of chromatin rings which exhibit enlargement at four equidis- tant points (fig. 93). When formed, the number of tetrads is always half that of the ordinary number of chromo- somes, but as each con.sists of four elements they contain collectively twice the ordinary number of chromatic elements, a splitting of the diads having ^ occurred to produce the tetrad groups. When the ovum ^ These changes were de- scribed in the ovary of the rabbit by V. Winiwarter ^Arch. de biol. 1900), whose account has been con- firmed by Miss J. Lane-Claypon (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1905); in the cat by Winiwarter and Sainmont (Arch. biol. xxiv. 1908); in the spermatocytes of Myxine by A. and K. E. Schreiner (Arch, de biol. xxii.); and in Selachians by J. Marechal (Anat. Anz. Bd. xxv. p. 383, 1904). The synaptic stage, which has also been described in the process of spermatogenesis, is not universally met with in that, according to Duesberg (Arch. f. Zellforschung, iii. 1909). Cf. Moore and Walker, Rep. Cancer Res. Lab Umv. Liverpool, 1906; Fick, Arch. f. Zellforschung, i. 1908 ; Goldschmidt, ihid.; F. Meves,i6fd. Fig. 93.—Three stages of heterotype mitosis in SPERMATOCYTE OP Triton. (Moore.) a, geminal condition of chromosomes; 6, gemini arranged in quadrate loops or tetrads; c, separation of tetrads into the duplex chromosomes of the daughter-nuclei.