MEDULLA OBLONGATA 299 Medulla oblong-ata or spinal bulb.—In tlie lower part of the medulla oblongata the arrangement of the grey matter has undergone a change as compared with that of the cord (fig. 470). The central canal is still present and surrounded with grey matter, but the motor or efferent nerve-cells are now situated close to the canal. Some of these cells lie ventro-laterally, others dorso-laterally, to the section of the canal : they give origin to the fibres of the hypoglossal and part of the spinal accessory nerves (fig. 470, N. XI., N. XII.). The ventral horn is cut off from the grey matter by the passage of bundles of nerve-fibres from the pyramids of the medulla oblongata to the lateral white column of the cord, and the middle part of the crescent is broken up into a reticular formation in which white bundles running longitudinally and transversely interlock with portions of the grey matter containing nerve-cells Dorsal median fissure Nucleus gracilis Accessory nucleus cuneatus Nticleus c^ineatus Descending root of Vth Central canal Substantia Rolandi Central fibres of Vth Internal arcuate fibres Rubro-spinal t?'acl Bmidle of Goivers Baphe Accessory olivary nucleus Thalamo-olivary trad Olivary nucleus Pyramid Arcuate nucleus N. XII. Dorsal longi- tudinal bundle Ventral longi- tudinal bundle Interolivary Fig. 470.—Section across the lower part of the medulla oblongata. (Schafer.) Photograph. Magnified about 6 diameters. of different sizes. And whereas in the spinal cord the dorsal columns are entirely composed of white fibres, in the medulla oblongata grey matter is found to extend into them and soon entirely to occupy the columns, the white fibres which are prolonged up from the spinal dorsal roots becoming lost and ending in ramifications in this grey matter. From its cells, on the other hand, new fibres arise and run as arcuate fibres through the reticular formation. They cross the raphe (seam) which joins the two lateral halves of the bulb, and, becoming longitudinal on the opposite side, run upwards towards the cerebrum, where they ultimately end in the thalamus. These fibres, which are joined by others coming from other portions of the grey matter of the bulb and pons in which the sensory cerebral nerves end, and probably also by fibres derived from cells of the spinal cord, constitute collectively the great sensory tract known as the main or lower fillet.