52 GERM-CELLS the spindle. The result is that both the second polar globule and the ovum, which represent the cells resulting from the second division, have only one-half of the number of chromosomes which is usually found within the somatic cells of the particular species of animal.^ This phenomenon is known as the reduction-division^ because the result is to produce a nucleus within the ovum in which the number of chromosomes is reduced to one-half the ordinary or somatic number. The nucleus remainino- in O the ovum, although it soon grows to a con- siderable size and may assume the ordinary appearance of a resting nucleus, nevertheless differs in the above important particular from the ordinary cell-nucleus. It is known as the germ-nucleus or the female pronucleus, and its formation is an essential preliminary to the completion of fertilisation. The changes which lead to the extrusion of the polar globules and the production of an ovum which is ready for fertilisation are known collectively as maturation of the ovum. Similar heterotypical and homotypical mitoses, preceded by a synaptic phase and eventually resulting in reduction of the number of chromosomes to one-half, occur also in the division of the cells {spermatocytes) (figs. 87, 88) which produce the spermatids, which develop into spermatozoa. The latter, as a study of their development shows, are detached motile flagellated cells of exceedingly minute size, com- posed of head, middle piece, and tail. The head is formed almost entirely by the nucleus of the spermatid, the middle piece represents the remains of its protoplasm, and the tail or cilium contains a filament which has grown out from its centrosome (fig. 4,1.). The nuclear chromatin of the head of the spermatozoon is constituted, to more than 90 per cent., of nucleic acid. This head appears, even under the highest powers of the microscope, as a uniform mass of chromatin, but the study of its development shows it to have been formed by the blending of chromosomes which, in consequence of the reduction-division already mentioned, are just one-half the number found in the ordinary somatic cells of the same animal. It is there- fore, again, not a complete but a half nucleus. This constitution of the nucleus is strikingly shown when it reaches the ovum and undergoes enlargement within that body. Having passed through the external membrane of the ovum, in some animals through a special orifice known as the micropyle, it becomes imbedded in the proto- plasm, the tail disappears (although sometimes it remains visible for a time, fig. 89), ^ The first polar globule may also divide into two, and each of these also has then only one-half the hsual number of chromosomes. For an account of the division phenomena which characterise the maturation stages of the ovum, see vol. i. For other details, see Ries, Centralbl. f. Physiol, xxiii. 1909. Fig. 89.—Ovum of bat mith polar BODIES AND GERM- AND SPERM-NUCLEI. (Van der Stricht.) The development of the sperm-nucleus from the head of the spermatozoon is very evident in this case, because the rest of the spermatozoon happens not to have been thrown off. Fig. 88.—Homotypical division of SPERMATOCYTE (SECOND GENERA- TION) OF Salamandra at stage of METAKiNESis. (F. Meves.) The chromosomes (only four of which are represented) are beginning to pass towards the poles of the nucleus.