EPITHELIUM 100 j)apilla undergoes calcification, resulting in the production of the dentine or ivory of the tooth, wiiich is a connective-tissue structui'e allied to bone; and upon the surface of thedentine thus foi'ined the cells of the epithelial thickening (which now forms what is known as the enamel organ) deposit a succession of layers of enamel in the form of closely packed prisms of calcareous substance which correspond in form to the columnar cells which produce them. After the enamel is completed, and when the tooth crown emerges from the gum owing to the growth of the roots, the cells of the enamel organ disajjpear entirely.' The enamel prisms are probably formed within the enamel-cells (ameloblasts) themselves, and not by dej^osition of calcareous matter external to them. When fully formed they contain scarcely any organic material.- The crystalline lens of the eye is also formed from an invagination of ectoderm, which occurs very early in embryonic development, and becoming separated from the rest of the ectoderm lies in the cuj^-shaped cavity which is formed by the folding of the primary optic vesicle. The globular island of epithelium thus produced consists of two layers, anterior and posterior, continuous with one another at the equator of the lens. Of these two layers the anterior remains almost unaltered except that its cells multiply ^vith the growth of the lens ; it forms the anterior or capsular epithelium of the lens. The posterior layer undergoes considerable modification. Its cells grow into long clear prismatic or flattened fibres with irregular or jagged edges interlocking with one another. They lose their protoplasmic character and become occupied by a clear fluid containing a large amount of globulin: in most of them also the nucleus atrophies so that their original cell-nature tends to be greatly obscured (fig. 165). The pigment-cells of the retina are remarkable from the fact that they display under the alternate influence of light and darkness movements of the pigment-granules which they contain. The layer when viewed from the outer surface looks like a mosaic of hexagonal cells, but when seen in profile the cells are observed to be prolonged inwardly between the rods and cones of the retina, and it is also evident that the pigment-granules are confined to this part of the ceU, while the nucleus lies in the outer part. The extent to which the pigmented part of the cell projects inwards varies with the conditions as regards light to which the eye has been exposed. If the animal had been exposed to light shortly before death, the pigment is found to extend a con- siderable distance from the nucleus towards the bases of the rods and cones. But if, on the other hand, the animal is kept in the dark before being killed, the pigment is withdrawn toward the nucleus. The function of this pigment is partly for the purpose of absorbing light, partly to effect a chemical change in Fig. 165. Section thkough the maiigin retinal rods, the purple colouring-matter of which OF THE EPITHELIUM INTO THE LENS- bccoiues blcaclicd by tlic actioH of light and lecoi - FIBRES. (Babuchin.) verted into visual purple by the pigment-cells. ' Tfie structure and mode of development of the enamel will be again referred to when the other tissues of the teeth come under consideration. ' C. S. Tomes, Proc. Odout. Hoc. lHi)6.