MUSCLE 194 u new formation of fibres within the muscles does occur. A mode of new formation which has been described is by the transformation of cells (myoblasts) which lie between the muscle-fibres, and which are presumably undifferentiated cells derived from the original muscle-plate. Fibres m various stages of development have been described in muscles at all stages of growth, and also in the adult condition, so that it has been conjectured that new muscular fibres may be formed in this way even after the development of the muscle is com- pleted. But the inerease in the adult which results from exercise of the muscles is mainly due* to an increase in bulk of the fibres which are already developed.' It was formerly thought that after removal by the knife or by disease striated muscular tissue is not regenerated, but that any breach of continuity which may occur in a muscle is filled up by a growth of con- nective tissue. It would appear, however, that the breach is, after a certain lapse of time, bridged across by muscular substance. How the new muscular tissue is formed is not fully understood, but it is usually considered that it occurs by the transformation of myoblasts into muscle-fibres, as in the original formation of muscle. Schmincke, however, states that regeneration is brought about by a budding from the ends of the existing fibres.* PLAIN OK UNSTRIPED MUSCULAR TISSUE. This is made up of cells, contractile fibre-cells, which were first distinguished as the true elements of the tissue by Kolliker. The cells may form fibrous bundles and strata, or may be less regularly arranged, and the tissue occurs either almost pure or mixed with other tissues in varying proportion. The cells are of an elon- gated fusiform shape (figs. 294 and 299), usually pointed at the ends. They are generally prismatic in transverse section, but are sometimes more flattened. In arteries which contain much elastic tissue in their middle coat the plain muscular fibres may be very irregular in shape (fig. 296). The cells vary greatly in length according to the part or organ in which they are found. Some occur which are cleft or forked at one or both ends. Their substance exhibits a longitudinal fibrillation, but no transverse striation. As shown by M. Heidenhain, the fibrils can be distinguished into superficial coarse and deep finer (fig. 295). They are doubly refracting. Each cell has a single nucleus, rarely more than one, which is always elongated and either elliptical or rod- shaped. Kod-shaped nuclei are specially characteristic of the muscle-fibres of the blood- vessels. At the ends of the nucleus the substance of the cell usually contains a few distinct granules arranged in linear series. The nucleus shows the usual structure, having a distinct chromatin network and usually one or two nucleoli. Spiral nuclei have been described by E. Forster ^ Fig. 294.—Muscular fibre-cells FROM THE MUSCULAR COAT OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. Highly magnified. A, a complete cell showing the nucleus with intranuclear network and a longitudinal fibrillation of the cell-substance, with finely vacuo- lated protoplasm between the fibrils. B, a cell broken in the process of isolation; a delicate external layer projects at the broken end a little beyond the striated substance of the cell. Cf. Halban, Anat. Hefte, iii. 1894. - Ziegler’s Beitr. xlv. 1909. ^ Anat. Anz. xxv. 1904.