CORPUS STRIATUM ANU THALAMUS 317 others reach the grey matter of the pons and there terminate, and yet others pass down the medulla oblongata and spinal cord as the tract of the pyramid. Certain fibres of the cerebral cortex pass as association-fibres to other parts of the cortex, either of the same hemisphere, or, traversing the great longitudinal fissure in the commissure known as the corpus callosum, are distributed as commissural fibres to the cortex of the opposite hemisphere. The commissural fibres of the olfactory region pass across from one hemisphere to the other in the anterior commissure. Corpus striatum and thalamus.—Two large masses of grey matter are situated in the white matter of the cerebral hemisphere near its base, and in close relation- ship to the lateral and third ventricles. They receive many nerve-fibres from the cerebral cortex, and on the other hand the axons of many of their cells pass to the cortex. Their cells are arranged in groups or nuclei, the connexions of which are as yet very imperfectly understood. The thalamus is undoubtedly a recipient of many fibres from afferent or sensory tracts (fig. 493). The bulk of the fibres of the upper fillet terminate in it, as do the secondary sensory tracts of the fifth and of Fig. 492.—Diagbam showing projection-, association-, and commissural fibres arising FROM CELLS OF THE CORTEX CEREBRI. (Cajal.) A, commissural fibres in corpus callosum ; B, commissural fibres in anterior commissure ; C, corpus striatum; D, ending of commissural fibres in grey matter of opposite hemispliere; E, hippocampal cortex; F, G, endings of association-fibres, derived from motor and hippo- campal cortex ; H, projection-fibres from cortex and corpus callosum; I, projection-fibres from hippocampal cortex; a, b, c, collaterals. other sensory cerebral nerves. It also receives posteriorly (into the lateral geniculate body and the adjacent part of the thalamus) many fibres of the optic tract; and into the mesial geniculate body fibres connected with the secondary acoustic tract; while the nucleus of the mamillary body at its base receives fibres of the secondary olfactory tract. The nuclei of the thalamus are very numerous; their cells vary greatly in size and characters. Below, the thalamus is continued into the hypothalamus, which is a direct anterior continuation of the tegmentum of the mid-brain. It contains the superior (anterior) end of the red nucleus, besides other nuclei, such as the corpus subthalamicum of Buys, peculiar to itself, as well as the continuation cerebral-wards of several of the tracts of the tegmentum. The corpus striatum is formed of two parts. The part known as the nucleus lenticularis is separated from the other, termed the nucleus caudatus, and from the optic thalamus, by the flattened mass of white fibres of the internal capsule. These are for the most part, as already noticed, fibres which are passing between