390 THE BLOOD granules zymogen granules : they bear a resemblance to the zymogen granules of gland-cells.' In diameter the cells measure, when in the spherical state, about the same as the polymorphocytes. The nucleus is commonly horseshoe- FiG. 585.—A POLYMORPH LEUCOCYTE OF TRITON FIXED BY A .JET OF STEAM DURING WHAT APPEARS TO BE AMITOTIC DIVISION. (Scliafer.) Magnified 1360 diameters. Untouched photograph. shaped or bilobed, but not subdivided like that of the polymorphocytes. These leucocytes vary greatly in number in different individuals (1 to 11 per cent). They are amoeboid, but less actively so than the polymorphocytes. Similar cells occur in bone-marrow, and this is probably their source : the granules of the ox}^hil marrow-leucocytes having the same size and shape as those of the oxyphil blood- leucocytes of the same species of animal. 5. G-ranular basiphils. — Leucocytes with a mass of coarse granules, staining with basic dyes such as methylene-blue. These are not constant elements of normal blood, but occur occasionally. They are fairly numerous in bone-marrow and in the connective tissue of some parts, where they are known as ‘ mast-cells' (see p. 108). When present in blood they have probably passed into it from those tissues. O C n ? 0 0 0 "o O . As> o 00 Fig. 586.—Blood-corpus- cles AND PLATELETS WITHIN A SMALL VEIN OF THE rat’s MESEN- TERY. (W. Osier.) The blood of lower vertebrates contains leucocytes having the same general characters as those of mammals, and of the same kinds, viz. polymorphs, lymphocytes, large and small, and granular oxyphil cells. In amphibians the leucocytes are considerably larger than in mammals and birds, although smaller than the erythrocytes.- Walker has described the leucocytes of Axolotl as undergoing a kind of conjugation, with exchange of nuclear material. The leucocytes of Salamandra have been shown by Moves ^ to contain chondriosomes. These are not identical with Ehrlich’s granules, although the latter have probably been formed from them. According to C. E. Walker the granules of these leucocytes are formed from the threads of their archoplasm.'' The exact nature of the granules of the leucocytes is not known. Some have been regarded as representing secretion-material within the protoplasm (see above). Attempts have been made, with more or less success, to prove that they possess digestive power, and Fiessinger and Marie® state that they have been able to obtain a tryptic ferment from centrifugalised leucocytes. Formation and reproduction of leucocytes.—The formation of the leucocytes of the blood from primitive blood-cells or hfemoblasts has alread}" been considered, as well as the possibility of the formation of the polymorph and the 1 Weidenreich (Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908,Verliandl. d. anat. Gesellsch.) makes the somewhat improbable < suggestion that the eosinophil granules are derived from the luemoglobin of ingested erythrocytes. Equally unlikely is the suggestion of SacharotT (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlv. 1895) that they are formed from the extruded nuclei of the erythroblasts of bone-marrow. ^ For a description of the leucocytes of the frog’s blood, and the relative number of each kind, see Pentimalli, Intern. Monthly Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxvi. 1909; and Freidsohn, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxv. 1910. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxv. 1910. ® Journ. de Physiol. 1909. ‘ Proc. Roy. Soc B. Ixxix. 1907.