STKUCTUKE OF NERVE-CENTRES 302 running bundles into which the pyramids of the medulla oblongata have resolved themselves. These ponto-cerebellar fibres decussate in the middle line and course over to the opposite side to form the middle 'peduncle of the cerebellum, in the hemi- sphere of which they end. The part of the pons which adjoins the fourth ventricle consists of greij matter of the floor of the ventricle ; ventral to this is reticular forma- tion, and within or adjacent to this are certain longitudinally and transversely crossing nerve-bundles, which are continuous with tracts above and below. In the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle there lies near its lateral angle a large-celled nucleus which gives origin to fibres of the motor root of the fifth nerve. Other fibres of this root arise from a nucleus of large spherical nerve-cells which Fig. 472.—Section across the lowest part of the pons. (Schafer.) Magnified about 4 diameters. v.IV., fourth ventricle; c, cerebellum; c.d., its corpus dentatum; fl, grey matter of flocculus; c.?"., restiform body; Ji, fibres of vestibular nerve; D, Deiters’ nucleus; FJJJ, root of eighth nerve; Vlll.d, VIII.v, its dorsal and ventral nuclei; tr, trapezium; n.tr., its nucleus; /, fillet; 'p.l.h., posterior (dorsal) longitudinal bundle; f.r., formatio reticularis; n, n', n", nuclei within it; F.a., descending root of fifth nerve; s.g., substantia gelatinosa; S.O., superior olivary nucleus; VII, root of facial nerve; n.VII., its nucleus; VI, root-fibres of sixth ; py, pyramid-bundles ; n.p., nuclei pontis. lie in the central grey matter at the side of the ventricle and can be traced up also in its continuation at the side of the Sylvian aqueduct to the mid-brain {accessory motor nucleus). The large sensory root of the fifth enters the side of the pons, pene- trating the bundles of the middle cerebellar peduncle. The sensory fibres partly end by ramifying in an extensive sensory nucleus of small cells near the motor nucleus, partly bend downward to be continued into the medulla oblongata as the descending root, the fibres of which terminate in the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. Three other cerebral nerves are connected with the pons. One of these is the fourth nerve (see p. 305). Another, the seventh nerve, which has both efferent and afferent fibres, arises, as regards its efferent fibres, from a nucleus of medium-sized cells which lies in the reticnlar formation and corresponds in general situation and