386 THE ELOOD nor do they exhibit any centrosome or other internal sign of cell-architecture. Chemically they contain in their envelope (stroma) the nucleoproteids and lipoids which are characteristic of protoplasm, and these occur in about the same relative proportion as in protoplasm. But, although originally formed from and Fig. 577.—Untouched photogr.4.ph of living leucocyte OF TRITON, SHOWING RETICULAR STRUCTURE OF THE PROTOPLASM. (Schafer.) Magnified 1360 diameters. The photograph was taken in monochromatic light with Zeiss’ 2 mm. apochromatic objective and projection eye- piece. The polymorph nucleus also exhibits a reticular structure. within protoplasm, they have lost all amoeboid properties—in fact, the pro- toplasm from which they are produced has become transformed into little but a thin envelope enclosing a solu- tion of haemoglobin. The fact that the discoid erjThro- cyte may in some cases be formed by a transformation of a portion only of the protoplasm of a vaso-formative mesenchyme-cell, and may become free within such cell, and in other cases may be produced bj" trans- formation of the Avhole cytoplasm vsdth separation of this from the nucleus, would not necessarily, as Minot ‘ has supposed to be the case, constitute an essential morphological difference between the two kinds of erythro- cyte, since in both cases the corpuscles are formed by modification of cyto- plasm, and in both this modified cytoplasm separates itself from the cell-nucleus. In its definitive con- dition the mammalian erythrocyte cannot in any case be regarded as a complete cell. The nucleated red corpuscle of oviparous vertebrates, on the other hand, is shown, both by its general structure and mode of development, to be morphologically a cell, although it has few of the functional characteristics of cells. In the adult condition it is incapable of undergoing division and multiplication, although the nucleus retains the structure and chemical composition which is typical of cell-nuclei. The cell-body, again, is wholly transformed into a thin envelope enclosing a solution of hsemoglobin. Some authors have described a reticular structure within these corpuscles, taking tending from the nucleus to the envelope (see fig. 563), but we must bear in mind the ease with which such an appearance is pro- duced by fixative reagents. These nucleated corpuscles of adult ovipara differ from the first formed erythroblasts of both the ovi- parous and of the mammalian embryo; for bothmegalo- and normo-blasts are complete cells, capable of division, and exhibiting amceboid phenomena ; in short, they differ from a typical animal cell, such as the white corpuscle, mainly in the presence of hsemo- globin in their protoplasm. The erythro- blasts of the marrow are in all respects similar to the embryonic erythroblasts. COLOUKLESS CORPUSCLES: LEUCOCYTES. The colourless corpuscles or leuco- cytes of man (and indeed of all ani- mals) are protoplasmic cells. On account of their relatively small 1 Aiiat. Anz. v. 1890. the form of fine intercommunicating threads ex- Fig. 578.—Lace-like appearance of living proto- plasm OF a leucocyte of salamander. (Scbiifer.) Magnified 1200 diameters. Untouched photograph. The lace-like protoplasm is partly spread over an erythrocyte.