SECRETINCr CELLS 559 after a period of prolonged inactivity, a well-marked outer zone which is free from granules (figs. 811, 812), and in fixed and hardened specimens stains like proto- plasm. There are no ducts in the pancreas corresponding in structure to the so-called ‘ salivary ducts ’ of the salivary glands, ^.e. tubules of nearly uniform dia- meter, ramifying throughout the gland and lined by striated columnar epithelium- cells which nearly fill the lumen. In the pancreas, on the other hand, the ducts diminish regularly in size as they branch through the gland, and the branch which passes to a lobule gives oS to each alveolus a junctional or in- tercalary duct, always small in diameter and lined by flattened cells; this duct opens abruptly into the alveolus. It is also a frequent feature in the pancreas to see the cells of the junctional ducts prolonged into the lumen of the alveolus, where they are known as the centro- acinar cells (Langerhans) (fig. 811), an appearance seen occasionally, but to a much less extent, in the parotid and other salivary glands.* Lastly, the existence amongst its lobules of the islets of Langerhans, to be presently described, serves at once to distinguish the pancreas from all other acinous glands. Fig. 813.—Alveoli of dog’s pancbeas, cells loaded. Osmic preparation. (Babkin, Rubasckin and Ssawitsch.) The secretion-granules in the alveolar cells of the pancreas are readily observed in osmic preparations (figs. 813 to 816) and also in the fresh gland,^ and may be seen during life in those parts of the gland which in the rabbit and other animals lie between the layers of the mesentery ; where the changes which take place during secretion can also be followed. This was first done by Kiihne and Lea,^ who found the granules gradu- ally to disappear during secretion, so that if the gland be stimulated, e.g. by pilocarpin, the clear outer zone of the cell becomes relatively increased in size and the granular zone becomes confined to the free border of each cell (fig. 812). Accompanying these changes the cells become altogether smaller and their out- lines more distinct; the outer zone of each cell appears now also indistinctly striated. Similar changes occur as the result of more natural methods of provoking secretion, such as the injection of secretin into the blood-vessels or of acid into the duodenum (fig. 814), and the stimulation of the vagus nerve (fig. 815). ‘ The influence of the nucleus in the production of the secretion, as well as the formation of a paranucleus from which the secretion-granules are believed to be formed has already been alluded to (p. 59).^ As first described by Nussbaum, the paranucleus may be invisible during the resting condition of the Fig. 814. — Alveoli op dog’s pancbeas afteb a PEBIOD of activity PBODUCED BY APPLICATION OP ACID TO MUCOUS MEMBBANE OF DUODENUM. (Babkin, Rubasckin and Ssawitsch.) 1 R. Krause, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlv. 189.'5. ' Cl. Bernard, Memoire sur le pancreas, 1856. ^ Heidelberg Unters. 188*2. Babkin, Rubasckin and Ssawitsch, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiv. 1909. ® For the literature see Gamier, Journ. de I’Anat. et de la physiol, xxxvi. 1900.