399 STRUCTURE OF LYMPH-GLANDS it may have some elastic fibres amongst the white fibrils of which it is mainly composed.' The reticulum of the lymph-sinus is partly covered in the natural condition by ramified cells. The lymph-sinus is occupied by lymph, containing many lymph-corpuscles. These may be washed out from sections of the gland, so as better to show the sinus, while the corpuscles in the firmer gland-pulp tend to be retained in place. The finer reticular tissue of the lymphoid nodules and cords (fig. 596, a; fig. 597) communicates with that of the surrounding lymph- sinus, but is marked off from it by somewhat closer reticulation at their mutual boundary; not so close, however, as to prevent lymph-corpuscles from pass- ing from the one to the other. The lymphoid tissue is otherwise made up, as already mentioned, of densely packed lymphocytes, occupying the interstices of its supporting reticular tissue, and usually exhibiting, especially at the centre of the nodules, abundant evidence of the process of division and multiplication by Fig. 596.—Section of the medullary substance of a lymphatic gland (ox). (v. Recklinghausen.) Magnified 300 diameters. a, a, a, follicular or lymphoid cords; &, b, trabeculae ; c, lymph-sinus; d, d, blood-vessels. mitosis {germ-centres of Fleming ^). These germ-centres are only found in the cortical nodules, which have probably been produced by the accumulation of cells which results from frequent division. The multiplication of cells in the medullary cords is either too infrequent or too irregularly dispersed to produce a similar appearance. The germ-centres are not distinct in young animals—probably because the multiplication is less localised in them—nor in very old ones.'' The lymphoid tissue is traversed by a network of capillary blood-vessels (fig. 596, d, d), which run throughout the proper glandular pulp, both cortical and medullary, but do not pass into the surrounding lymph-sinus. Although most of the cells of the glandular pulp are similar to the smaller lymphocytes of blood, larger cells of the character of macrocytes are here and there found. The ramified cells which cover the reticular tissue of the lymph-sinus often ’ Bunting, Journ, Anat. and Physiol, xxxix. 1904-5. - Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxiv. 1885. ^ Baum and Halle, Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908.