436 SECRETING GLANDS acid-forming cells of the fundus glands and in the pepsin-secreting glands of the pyloric part of the stomach they are still finer. That the granules are directly related to the process of secretion was first rendered evident by the observations of Langley ’ on the parotid and those of Kiihne and Lea upon the cells of the pancreas in living animals. In these cells the granules occupy the zone adjoining the lumen of each alveolus, the outer or basement zone being clear or occupied only by very fine granules, probably of a different nature (fig. 643, a). After a prolonged period of rest from secretion the inner zone of granules occupies about half or in some animals rather more than half the thickness of each cell. But if the gland be stimulated to activity the clear outer zone increases in size at the expense of the inner zone, the granules of which are evidently passed in a state of solution into the lumen of the alveolus along with the flow of secretion (fig. 643, b). These observations have been conflrmed by Langley and others for the alveoli of the pancreas and of all the salivary glands both serous and mucous (figs. 644, 645), for the gastric glands in mammals and oesophageal glands of the frog, for the lacrymal, for the cells of the salivary ducts (fig. 33), and for various other glands.^ The arrangement into granular and non-granular zones is not general in resting glands. It occurs in the gastric fundus-glands as well as in the pancreas; but in others, such as the salivary glands, the whole cell tends during a prolonged period of rest to be filled with secreting granules (Langley); during secretory activity these become discharged, so that at first the basal zone, and subsequently nearly the whole of the protoplasm, may become free from granules. But this last condition is brought about only as the result of excessive secretion, such as is produced by the action of pilocarpine (fig. 644, c), or in the salivary glands as the result of the continued secretion which follows section and degeneration of the cerebral nerves to those organs. The granules in mucin-secreting cells and also in many gland-cells which do not secrete mucin are readily swollen and eventually dissolved by the action of most fixing reagents containing water, and even by alcohol. On this account they for a long time escaped observation. But they can, as already stated, be seen in many glands in the fresh condition, especially if it is possible, as with the pan- creas and parotid of some animals, to examine thin portions of the gland during life with the circulation still proceeding. Even normal salt solution and serum tend to destroy the granules in mucin-secreting cells, and to see them in the fresh cell it is necessary, as Langley has shown, to examine the cells in 2 per cent, to 5 per cent. NaCl solution. Sections of glands fixed by ordinary hardening reagents and examined (after staining) in Canada balsam or damar show no sign of the secreting granules, but the cell-proto- plasm looks clear with a faint indication of a fine network—a condition brought about by the swelling and disappearance of the granules. They can, how- ever, in some cases be preserved by the use of osmic- acid solution, or better of osmic-acid vapom’; or a mixture of equal parts of osmic acid (5 percent.) with saturated solution of potassium bichromate (Altmann’s mixture), the solution of osmic acid being made with 3 per cent. NaCl (Metzner). A saturated solution of picric acid fixes them in certain glands ; but owing to the fact that they differ in chemical composition in different organs no one fixative is universally applicable. The secretion-granules may differ in their characters in different cells of the same gland or alveolus (fig. 642), and even within the same cell. This is due to the fact that they are not all in the same stage of development. They first appear within ^ Journ. Physiol, ii. 1879-80. ^ Heidelberg Untersuch. 1882. A compendious account of the history of this subject is given by R. Metzner in Nagel’s Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen, 1900-7, to which article the reader is referred for the literature to that date. Fig. 645. —Isolated mucin-secketing CELLS from the SUBMAXILLARY GLAND OF A DOG. (Langley.) a and &, isolated in 2 per cent, salt solution ; a, from loaded gland ; Z;, from discharged gland; a', similar cells after treatment with dilute acid.