608 UKINARY BLADDER form according to tlie condition of distension of the bladder; in the distended organ they are flattened out so as to cover a larger surface, while in the empty con- dition of the bladder they are of less diameter and proportionately higher (see figs. 160, 161, p. 97). Many of the superficial cells contain two nuclei (fig. 884, a). They are believed to multiply by amitosis (see fig. 74, p. 40). The deeper cells divide by mitosis ; the newly formed cells take the place of others which are thrust Fig. 884.—Epithelial cells prom the bladder of the rabbit. (Klein.) Highly magnified. ' a, large flattened cell from the superficial layer, with two nuclei, and with strongly marked ridges and intervening depressions on its under surface; a', one of the same cells shown in profile; b, pear-shaped cell of the second layer showing the manner in which it is adapted to. a depression on the superficial cell. towards the surface. There are no definite glands in the bladder, but in some places downgrowths of the deeper epithelium-cells into the mucous membrane occur, which may be either solid or hollow (fig. 885). These have sometimes been described as true glands. There appears to be no basement-membrane separating the corium of the mucous membrane from the epithelium. As in the pelvis of the kidney and ureter, projections of the corium into the epithelium in the form of vascular ridges are also seen here and there. Fig. 885.—Section of part of wall of base of bladder; human. (Lendorf.) Magnified 230 diameters. The section passes through a glandular invagination of the epithelium, ep, epithelium; c, corium. Blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves.—Arteries.—The superior vesical arteries proceed from the remaining pervious portions of the hypogastric arteries ; in tlie adult they appear as direct branches of the internal iliac. The inferior vesical arteries are usually derived from the anterior division of the internal iliac. In the female the uterine arteries also send branches to the bladder. These arteries anastomose with one another on the outer surface to form a network ; branches from the middle haunorrhoidal artery join this network. From it offsets pass into