THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES 104 looser in some parts ; smaller, witli denser tissue, in others ; the denser varieties pass by gradual transition into the kind of connective tissue which is termed ‘ fibrous.’ There are no distinct areolsc in the early stages of formation ; these become developed as the ground-substance becomes fibrillated, probably by liquefaction of part of the matrix. White fibres {collagenous -fibrils).—Examined under the microscope a lamina or film of areolar tissue shows a number of what look at first sight like wavy fibres running in all directions in the tissue and occasionally intercommunicating. More careful observation shows that most of these apparent fibres are really bundles of fine fibres or fibrils, and that the intercommunication of the bundles is effected by the detachment of a certain number of fibres from one bundle to join another. The fibrils themselves, which run parallel with one another in the bundles (fig. 170), do not branch or join one another : they are cemented together in the bundles by an imperceptible amount of interfibrillar material, and the size of the bundles depends upon the number of fibrils in each. If the bundles are stretched they straighten out, and so do, of course, their constituent fibres, but any attempt to extend the bundle further is met by marked resistance, which shows that the material of the fibres is one of considerable strength and toughness. These fine transparent fibrils, which always run in wavy bundles in the tissue and which never themselves branch or join one another, have a pearly-white appearance when accumulated in any quantity, and have hence been termed the white fibres of the connective tissue. It is to them that a connective tissue owes any toughness it possesses, and it is these fibres which, when a connective tissue is boiled, yield gelatin into solution. They have further the property of swelling up, with loss of distinctness of outline, when treated with dilute acid, and of dissolving in gastric juice. On the other hand, weak alkalies have little or no effect upon them, although serving to dissolve the cement which unites them, nor are they attacked by pancreatic juice, which dissolves almost all the elements of the tissues. Under such conditions they are brought very prominently into view, and the same is the case with the films of reticular tissue, which are of similar nature. There are also special stains which may be used to bring out the collagenous fibres, and which leave the other elements of the tissue almost unstained. The white fibres are doubly refracting, and therefore appear bright in the dark field of the polarising microscope. Elastic fibres.—Besides the wavy bundles of white fibres which have just been described, there may be seen, under the microscope, in a thin lamina or film of areolar tissue a certain number of fibres (fig. 171), which are distinguished at once from the white fibres by the fact that they run singly, not in bundles, and, further, that they give off at frequent intervals branches which unite with adjacent fibres. They have also a more distinct outline and a measurable size, whereas the white fibres are almost too fine for measurement. In a preparation of areolar Fig. 170.—Filaments of areolar tissue, in larger and SMALLER BUNDLES, AS SEEN UNDER A MAGNIFYING POWER OF 400 DIAMETERS. (Sliai’pey.)