518 SALIVARY GLANDS transitional forms between the two. But in nearly all cases the difference is so great in the staining of the cells, the appearance of the granules, the position of the cells in the alveoli, and the manner in which the secretion of the ‘ crescents ’ is passed (by secretory canaliculi) into the lumen, as to render the view that there is a specific difference between the two kinds of cell by far the most probable. The sublingrual g^land.—This gland in man consists of a number of small glands which open by several ducts {ducts of Rivinus), from 8 to 20 in number, partly into Wharton’s duct, partly independently into the floor of the mouth. Sometimes a longer duct—the duct of Bartholin—runs alongside Wharton’s duct, to open near its orifice. This conveys the secretion from a part of the gland close to the sub- maxillarv, representing the retrolingual of animals (see below). The human sub- e Fig. 752. — From a section of subjiaxillaby GLAND OF SHEEP, SHOWING THE PASSAGE OF A LOBULAB DUCTULE INTO THE ALVEOLI. (Illing.) a, mucous cells of alveoli; h, their nuclei; c, cells of crescents; d, secretory canaliculi; e, basement- membrane ; /, its basket-cells; g, lumen of duct. lingual is a mucous gland without distinct serous alveoli, but serous cells are found in the form of crescents as in the mucous alveoli of the sub- maxillary (fig. 754). It closely re- sembles the submaxillary of the dog in structure. In many animals the sublingual is repre- sented by two glands, one of which, the glandula sublingualis monostomatica—termed Fig. 758.—A lobule of submaxillary of pig IN TRANSVERSE SECTION. (Illing.) The magnification in this figure is greater than in fig. 751; the lettering is the same as in that figure. by Ranvier the retrolingual gland '—lies along Wharton’s duct, and is especially developed near the hilum of the submaxillary gland ; it has its own duct (duct of Bartholin). In the cat the retrolingual is mainly composed of mucous alveoli with a thick layer of ^serous cells next to the basement-membrane (fig. 755, b). The other, glandula sublingualis pohjstomatica, or sublingual 'proper (very inconspicuous in the dog and cat), communicates with the mouth by a number of ducts (ducts of Rivinus), like the sublingual in man. Its alveoli are mucous with serous cells at the periphery (fig. 755, a). The sublingual proper appears to be present in most animals, while the retrolingual is absent in the rabbit and hare, and in the horse, and is also, as above stated, usually unrepresented in man. Development of the salivary g-lands.—The salivary glands, as well as the small glands of the buccal mucous membrane, are developed as buds from the deeper layer of the ^ Arch, de physiol, xviii. 188G.