CORPUSCLES OE RUFFINI. 2G5 the organ, as in B) ; or it may be much convoluted and ramified in its passage, so as to render it a matter of difficulty to trace its course and mode of termination (fig. 416 C, fig. 417). The arrangement of the cells in these corpuscles seems to vary. Generally they are chiefly collected at the exterior, leaving the part Fig. 41(5.—A and B, Genital end-bulbs fkom the clitoris of the rabbit (Izquierdo); C, FROM THE HUMAN CLITORIS (W. KraUSe). traversed by the axis-cylinder free from cells and of an obscurely fibrous appearance, concentrically striated in transverse section (G. Retzius); but in others such as the spheroidal end-bulbs of the human conjunctiva, an agglomeration of cells in the centre has been described ; the existence of this is, however, denied by Retzius. Corpuscles of Rulfini.—In the subcutaneous tissue of the finger, Ruffini * described a form of nerve-ending in connective-tissue bundles (fig. 418), which recalls the nerve-ending in tendon-bundles, described by Golgi and known by his name (see p. 279). Similarly in the Ruffini corpuscles one or more medullated nerve-fibres enter a connective-tissue bundle, their sheath of Henle becoming continued into the outer part of the bundle. Within the latter, which is somewhat swollen into an oval en- largement, the fibres, having lost their medullary sheath, break up into a close ramification, the branches lying in the interstices of and partly encircling the smaller bundles of connective tissue. Sometimes there are a number of these corpuscles of Ruffini in close juxtaposition, supplied by the divisions of a single nerve- fiVjre. Corpuscles of G-olg-i-lHazzoni.—Golgi ^ and subsequently Mazzoni,^ de- scribed a form of end-organ of spherical or cylindrical shape which is found on the surface of tendons, and similar corpuscles also occur according to Ruffini in the 1 Ardi. ital de biol. xxi. 1894. ^ Mem. accad. d. sci. d. Torino, xxxii. 1880. ^ Mem. accad. di Bologna, 1. 50, 1891. Fig. 417.—Genital end-bulb from glans penis. Methylene-blue jireparation. (Dogiel.) a, medullated nerve-fibre; h, capsule of end-bulb.