456 THE SKIN network is joined with the lymphatics of the subcutaneous tissue. According to Klein there is a continuous plexus through the whole thickness of the corium, and all the vessels possess valves. The most superficial network, although close to the surface of the corium, is beneath the net of superficial blood-capillaries ; its con- stituent vessels are much larger than the blood-capillaries. In certain parts on the palm and sole lymphatics pass into the papillae, but do not reach their summits (fig. 664). The efferent lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels, two passing commonly with each small artery and vein, and joining and anastomosing over the vessels. As in other kinds of connective tissue, the b^mphatics of the skin may he said to originate in the cell-spaces of the tissue, and since the cells lie for the most part in rows between the bundles, the combined spaces form interfascicular clefts. When these are injected the fluid passes into the lymphatics. The superficial cell-spaces communicate with the intercellular channels of the epithelium, and these also are thus brought into connexion with the lymphatics. ^ See on the blood-vessels of the skin, Toinsa, Beitr. z. Anat. u. Phys. d. Haut, 1873 ; W. Stirling, Arb. a. d. Physiol. Anst. zu Leipzig, 1875; Journ. Anat. and Physiol, x. 1870; Spalteholtz, Arch. f. A)iat. 1803. . On the lymphatics of the skin see Unna, Arch. 1. mikr. Anat. Ixxii. 1908. Blood-vessels and lymphatics.—The arteries (fig. 663) divide in the sub cutaneous tissue {subcutaneous 'plexus), and, as their branches pass from this deep expansion towards the surface of the skin, they supply offsets to the fat-clusters, sweat-glands, and hair-follicles.^ They divide again and anastomose near the sur- face [subpapillary plexus)^ and at length, on reaching it, form a network of capillaries, with polygonal meshes. Fine looped branches pass from the superficial arteries into the papillae, as already mentioned. The veins accompany the arteries, but form more distinct anastomoses and plexuses ; four venous plexuses may in some parts be recognised lying in successive planes parallel with the surface of the cutis. Lymphatics are found in all parts, although probably not everywhere in equal number ; they are abundant and large in some parts of the skin, as on the scrotum and round the nipple. They form at least two networks, one superficial and another more deeply situated, Vt^hich intercommunicate by uniting vessels, whilst the deeper Fig. 664.—Two papill^k fbom the skin of the fingeb of a new-bobn child ; injected BLOOD-VESSELS BED, LYMPHATICS YELLOW, (v. Bi’unn after J. Neumann.)