509 DEVELOPMENT blended into a continuous calcification, which thus forms the first cap of dentine. In the meanwhile, the odontoblasts have formed a second layer of uncalcified matrix of a similar fibrous structure within the first one, and calcification proceeds in this as in the first. In like manner a succession of layers becomes formed, each one extending laterally rather farther than its predecessor; thus in teeth where there are at first separate deposits for difierent cusps these become ultimately blended, and as each successive layer is calcified its calcareous deposits blend with those of the preceding and more superficial layers. In places this blending remains incomplete, portions of the dentinal matrix remaining uncalcified between the successive layers ; in a macerated tooth these portions get destroyed, and cleft- like spaces arise. Since these are bounded by calcified deposit which has been originally laid down in globules, they present a knobbed outline, and are known as interglobular spaces (see p. 499 and fig. 726). As the odontoblasts form the successive layers of dentine in the manner above described, they retire gradually towards the centre. But whilst thus retiring they Fig. 742.—Section showing the structure op the part op the enamel-organ which LIES NEXT TO THE DENTINE. (Riise.) d, dentine; e, newly formed enamel stained black by osmic acid T, Tomes’ processes from the ameloblasts, a; str. int., stratum intermedium of enamel-organ; yj, branched cells of enamel-pulp. leave in situ, in the layers of forming dentine, filamentous processes of cell-proto- plasm, from which finer side-processes grow out. The dentine matrix becomes formed and moulded around these processes, which are thus left within tubes that become the dentine tubules, whilst the processes of the odontoblasts become the fibres of Tomes. The same cell continues to spin out such a filament or filaments as long as the formation of dentine continues, each tubule being thus completed in its whole length from a single odontoblast. In most cases two or more processes are connected at first with each cell, and these coalesce as the cell recedes, the main branchings of the dentinal tubules being thus formed. As the tooth approaches completion, the other cells of the dental papilla not immediately concerned in the formation of dentine become the cells of the dental pulp. Formation of enamel.—The prismatic fibres composing the enamel of the teeth are formed by the agency of those ends of the ameloblasts that abut against the dental papilla. On the inner aspect of each of these cells a finely globular deposit occurs (Annell), which stains with osmic acid (figs. 742, 743, e) and resembles keratin in its extreme resistance to the action of mineral