EFFECT OF .STIMULI ON PROTO PL A.SM (‘)9 degrees above the natural teiuperature of the body, although if maintained at an abnormally high temperature they are not long continued. A temperature a little above this maximum rapidly kills protoplasm, at least that of vertebrates, pro- ducing a stiffness or coagulation in it (heat-rigor), which is preceded by a general contraction ; from this condition of rigor the protoplasm cannot be recovered. But the protoplasm of some organisms will stand temperatures approaching that of boiling water without passing into heat-rigor. Freezing may cause destruction of protoplasm in higher animals, but that of certain of the lower animal and plant organisms is capable of resisting extreme cold, apparently for an indefinite time. This has also been found true for seeds of plants (Dewar). The contractility of protoplasm is dependent upon supply of oxygen. If this be withheld, the movements will, it is true, proceed for a time as usual, but this is because protoplasm, like other forms of contractile substance, such as muscle, has the power of storing away and using oxygen in some form of combination. For it is found that the active manifestations will not proceed indefinitely in the absence of oxygen, but cease after a time, to be renewed only on the accession of fresh oxygen. Manv reagents in solution influence the activity of protoplasm. Some of these act by adding to or subtracting from the water which it contains. As a general rule, and up to a certain point, the imbibition of water, varying according to the source of the protoplasm which is under observation (Thoma), accelerates the activity of the protoplasm, but beyond that point addition of water produces a destructive effect. A comparatively slight amount of desiccation is, so far at least as regards the protoplasm of the higher animals, destructive of vitality; but this statement does not hold good for the protoplasm of many of the lower animal and plant organisms. Hamburger and Hekma ' found that phagocytosis was diminished in leucocytes on diluting the serum they are contained in with water. Amongst reagents, acids, although very weak (even carbonic acid), stop the contractile manifestations and eventually kill the cell ; alkalies, on the other hand, if sufficiently dilute, increase at first their activity. The movements are stopped by chloroform and ether, but may be again resumed on the removal of those vapours. Certain drugs {e.g. veratria, and to a less extent quinine) rapidly arrest the movements. Effect of electrical and other stimuli upon protoplasm.—The effect of strong electrical shocks from a Leyden jar or an induction coil upon protoplasm which is exhibiting either amoeboid or streaming movements is, if sufficiently strong, to cause an immediate cessation of those movements, accompanied by a withdrawal into the main substance of any processes that may have been protruded. If the stimulation cease the movements will recommence, provided the shock has not been so severe as to injure the living substance. Abrupt changes of temperature, and mechanical stimulation, such as is produced by sudden pressure or harsh contact, act in a similar manner. Galvanotaxis, chemotaxis, barotaxis, phototaxis, d*.c.—The amoeboid movements of protoplasm are also affected by the passage of a constant galvanic current through the fluid in which the organism is immersed. The result of such a current depends upon the nature of the ions which are associated with the protein particles. If, as is usually the case, these are kations, the particles are positively charged, and the effect produced takes the form of a movement in the direction of the current—i.e. towards the negative pole or kathode (figs. 104, 111) ; in other words, there is a contraction of the protoplasm on the anodal side, and a relaxation ^ Biochem. Zeitsclir. iii. 1907. - This is not true of all protoplasm, for the blood-corpuscles of many insects live in a fluid which is strongly acid.