LARYNX 575 The inferior or true vocal cords, the structures by the vibration of whicJi the sounds of the voice are produced, bound the anterior two-thirds of the aperture of the glottis, corresponding with the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, the projecting edge of which forms the vocal cord on each side. The cords are situated at the inner and free edge of a mass of tissue triangular on coronal section (fig. 838). One surface of this mass looks upwards, and forms the floor of the ventricle, another looks downwards and inwards, and bounds the lower division of the laryngeal cavity, while the third is external and is in contact with the antero- posterior bundles of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The cords themselves are com- posed of closely arranged fine elastic fibres which extend from, the angle of the thyroid cartilage in front to the vocal Fig. 837.—Anterior half of a coronal SECTION THROUGH THE LARYNX NEAR ITS MIDDLE. (Allen Thomson.) 1, upper division of the laryngeal cavity; 2, central portion; 3, lower division, continued into 4, trachea; e, the free part of the epiglottis; e', its cushion ; great cornu of the hyoid bone; lit, thyro-hyoid membrane ; t, thyroid cartilage; c, cricoid cartilage; r, first ring of the trachea; ta, thyro-arytenoid muscle; vl, inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament in the membrane of the true vocal cord at the rima glottidis ; s, the ventricle; above this, the superior or false cords; s', the sacculus or pouch opened on the right side by carrjdng the section further forward. process of each arytenoid cartilage behind . The vocal cords are continuous above and below with the adjacent elastic tissue Fig. 838.—Verticai. section through the ven- tricle OF THE LARYNX OF A CHILD. (Klein.) a, stratified epithelium over true vocal cord; h, ciliated epithelium over false vocal cord ; c, nodule of elastic cartilage (cartilage of Luschka); d, ven- tricle ; 7, lymphoid tissue; m, bundles of thyro- arytenoid muscle, cut across. and elastic ligaments of the larynx. The mucous membrane covering them is so thin and closely adherent as to show the yellowish colour of the ligaments through it. A small nodule of elastic cartilage {cartilage of Luschka) is found in the anterior and inferior part of the vocal cord (fig. 838, c). The ventricles or sinuses of the larynx (fig. 837) lie between the false and true vocal cords (fig. 838, d). They are lined by ciliated epithelium ; their mucous membrane contains a large amount of lymphoid tissue. The small recess named the laryngeal pouch leads from the anterior part of the ventricle upwards, for the space of half an inch. Numerous small mucous glands, sixty or seventy in number, open into its interior, and it is surrounded by a quantity of fat.