227 CELLS OF SYMPATHETIC GANGLIA gaiiglion-C6lls, and tlicir fine terminal fibrils form synapses around the cell-bodies (fig.'^aSS).' The axons of the cells pass out from the ganglion. towards the periphery as non-medul- lated fibres, and these non-medullated fibres end in connexion with the plain muscular and other tissues which are supplied by the sympathetic nerves.^ The nervous plexuses wliicli occur in the wall of the ali- inentaiy canal, and which are offshoots of the syinpatlietic, contain small nerve-cells col- lected into small ganglia. In the plexus myentericus, as in most parts of the sympathetic, these cells are of two kinds (fig. 354) — viz. one with numerous short dendrons and a single axon, and another kind with numerous long pro- cesses extending far from the cell-body and distributed to the adjoining muscular tissue : in this second variety no clear distinction is evident between axons and dendrons. In the iDlexus submucosje all the k. ganglion-cells are of this second type (fig. 355).» Lastly it may be mentioned that at the termination of sympathetic nerve-fibres in other situations—e.g. in the mucous membrane of the small intestine and within the villi, as well as in the plexuses in which the nerve-fibres to blood-vessels and some other organs end, small multipolar cells occur (fig. 356),^ which are believed to be of nervous nature, since they become stained by methods which are specially selective for nervous elements. According to Cajal they contain neuro-fibrils. 1 Fibrils ramifying around the cell-body of the sympathetic gan- glion - cell were described by A. Smirnow, but he regarded them as arising in the cell (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. XXXV. 18‘J0). Their true nature has been shown by A. S I>ogiel and Cajal. ^ See on sympathetic nerve-cells, A. S. Dogiel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvi. 1895, and Anat. Anz. xi. 1890; Ramon y Cajal, oj). cit.\ Juschtschenco, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlix. 1897. ^ La Villa, Riv. trimestr. 1898. Drasch, Sitzungsb. d. Wiener Akad. 1880; Cajal, 1889, Nuevas aplicaciones del inetodo de Golgi, and Los ganglios y plexos nerviosos del intestine, 1895 ; Cajal and Sala, Terminacion de los nervios Ac. 1891; G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. 1892 ; H. J. Berkeley, Anat. Anz. 1893 ; A. S. Dogiel, Anat. Anz. x. 1895. Q 2 Fig. 354. — Cells ekom the sympathetic, showing the TWO DIFFEKENT types (A AND B) described in the text. (Dogiel.) ax, axons ; x>z, dendrons.