PULMONARY ALVEOLI 583 the mucous membrane. These occur most numerously in the larger tubes ; in those which measure less than 1 mm. they are rarely if ever found. The mucous mem- brane, which extends throughout the whole system of air-passages, is also thinner than in the trachea and bronchus, but it retains its ciliated columnar epithelium (figs. 847 to 850). The longitudinal bundles of clastic fibres, which chiefly lie in the deeper part of the mucous membrane, are very distinct in both the large and small bronchia, and may be followed by dissection as far as the tube can be laid open, and by the microscope into the smallest tubes (fig. 850). The muscular fibres, which in the trachea and bronchi are confined to the back part of the tube, surround the bronchial tubes as a continuous layer of annular fibres, lying inside the cartilaginous plates : they are found, however, beyond the place where the cartilages cease to exist, and appear as irregular annular fasciculi even in the smallest tubes. Pulmonary alveoli.—^At the point where the small bronchial tubes lose their cyhndrical character, and begin to be beset with air-cells, their structure also gradu- ally undergoes a change. The muscular layer almost disappears, the longitudinal Fig. 850.—Section op a small bronchial tube, human. (Sobotta.) Magnified 280 diameters. The elastic fibres of the mucous membrane are stained. elastic bundles are broken up into an interlacement of elastic tissue, which surrounds the mouths of the air-cells and the walls of the infundibula (fig. 851), and the columnar ciliated epithelium gives place to a stratum of non-ciliated cells. The change in the character of the epithelium first occurs in the lobular bronchioles, where patches of small pavement-epithelium cells begin to appear amongst the ciliated cells, especially in the neighbourhood of the air-cells upon the walls of these tubes. At the end of the lobular bronchiole, near the atrium, all the cells which line the wall of the tube are of the non-ciliated pavement variety. But the air-cells themselves, both those which are scattered over the respiratory bronchioles and those which cover the infundibula, as well as intermediate portions of the infundibula which occur here and there between the air-cells, possess an epithelium of a peculiar cha- racter (fig. 852). The cells of this epithelium are of two kinds, viz. : 1, large, thin, very delicate cells, irregular in size and shape, lying over the blood-vessels, but also in many cases extending over the interstices between them ; and, 2, small, flat, polygonal, nucleated cells, which lie singly or in small groups of two or three, between the others, and always in the interstices of the capillary network. These are similar to the cells found in patches in the lobular bronchioles. If the lung is greatly distended they also become flattened out.