ORIGIN OF THE TISSUES 4 Tissues derived from ectoderm. Tissues derived from mesoderm. Tissues derived from entoderm. The epidermis and its deriva- tives—viz. hairs, nails, epithe- lium of sebaceous, sweat, and mammaiy glands, including also the plain muscular tissue of the sweat-glands. The epithelium of the mouth and its derivatives—viz. the enamel of the teeth ; the taste- buds ; the epithelium of the salivary and other glands which open into the mouth; the epithelium of the anterior and intermediate parts of the pitui- tary body. The epithelium of the anus and of part of the anal canal. The epithelium of the distal portion of the male urethra. The epithelium of the nasal fossae, and that lining aU the cavities in the cranial bones which communicate with them; the epithelium of the glands of the nasal mucous membrane ; the olfactory epithehum. The epithelium covering the front of the eye, lining the eyelid and continued along the lacrymal canals to the nasal fossae. The epithelium of the lacrymal glands. The crystalline lens. The epithelium lining the membranous labyrinth of the ear, including the sense-cells of the maculae and cristae, and those of the organ of Corti. The epithelium lining the central canal of the spinal cord and the aqueduct of Sylvius ; also lining the third, fourth, and lateral ventricles of the brain. Neuroglia cells and fibres. AU nerve ceUs and fibres, whether within the central nervous system or in the gangha or in peripheral nerves. The retina of the eye. The epithelium of the ciliary region, and that covering the back of the iris. The muscular tissue forming the sphincter and dilatator pupillse. Certain ductless glands and parts of these glands, such as the pineal, the posterior lobe of the pituitary and the medulla of the suprarenal capsules, as well as other small glands of like nature (paraganglia) derived from the sympathetic. The epithelium of the cap- sules of Bowman, and of the convoluted, looped, and junc- tional tubules of the kidney. The epithelium of the ureters and renal pelves, and of the coUecting tubules of the kidney. The cortex of the suprarenal capsules. The epithelium of the ducts of the testis, that of the ovary and FaUopian tubes, uterus and greater part of the vagina. Also that of the pro- static vesicle in the male. The generative products in both sexes.' All the connective tissues, including areolar, fibrous, elas- tic, reticular, adipose, cartilage, bone, and dentine. The endothelium (mesothe- lium) lining the vascular and lymphatic systems. The corpuscles of the blood and lymph. The blood- and lymph- glands, including the spleen, the lymph - glands and lym- phoid organs in general, and the haemal lymph-glands.^ All muscular tissue, except the plain muscle of the iris and of the sweat-glands, the origin of which is ectodermic. The epithelium of the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, small and large intestines, and all its derivatives, including the epithelium of the small glands of the mucous membrane and that of the large glands which open into the intestine—viz. the pancreas, and the liver with its gaU-bladder. The epithelium of the Eusta- chian tube, and that lining the cavity of the tympanum. The epithelium of the larynx, trachea, bronchial tubes, and pulmonary alveoli. The epithelium of the thyroid vesicles and of the parathy- roids. The reticulum and the concentric corpuscles of the thymus. The epithelium of the female urethi’a, of the x^roximal part of the male urethra, and of the urinary bladder. The epithelium of the pro- static glands and of the glands of Cowper in the male ; of the lowest part of the vagina (vesti- bule) and glands of Bartholin in the female. ^ The germ-cells from which the sexual cells are eventually formed are found in some animals to be differentiated from the remaining cells resulting from division of the ovum even before there is a distinction into blastodermic layers. In a sense, there- fore, they may be regarded as sui generis and independent of these layers. But since in man and all the higher animals they are found in the wall of the coelom—which unquestionably belongs to the mesoderm—these cells may, with reservation, be included amongst the mesodermic tissues. ^ The connective tissues, the plain muscular tissue, the endo- thelium of the vascular and lymphatic systems (including that of the serous membranes), as well as the blood- and lymph-cor- puscles, constitute a special class of mesodermic tissues, derived from loosely arranged cells which have become budded off from the layers of cells which form the mesoderm proper. To these loosely arranged and often much-branched cells the name parablast (His), or mesenchyme (R. and 0. Hertwig), has been given, and the tissues which are formed from these cells are often termed the mesenchyme tissues. But it is doubtful if there is any valid reason for this segregation from the rest of the tissues formed from mesoderm. In the Embryology (vol. i.) the term mesenclLyme is used to denote the blastema of the connective tissues.