44 CELL-DIVISION Tesiilt of entry of more than one spermatozoon, and is common in artificial partho- genesis (fig. 61).* Long before the formation of chromosomes is completed a remarkable series of alterations has occurred in connexion with the centrosome (figs. 78, 79). This, as already stated, always divides prior to cell-division and even before any alteration is perceptible in the nucleus, and from each of the two centrosomes which are thus produced achromatic fibrils radiate in all directions into the surrounding proto- plasm. Those which are directed towards the other centrosome are especially well marked and serve to join the two centrosomes, constituting a spindle-shaped system which has been termed the division-spindle. This division-spindle lies at first lateral to and wholly outside the area occupied by the nucleus, but with the disappearance of the nuclear membrane and the formation of chromosomes it rapidly enlarges and its fibres are found to traverse the nucleus from end to end, the two centrosomes occupying the poles of the now elongated nuclear area.^ It is around the equator of this spindle that the V-shaped chromosomes arrange themselves, with the apices of the V's directed towards the centre of the spindle, so that when regarded in optical section, from the direction of either pole, the V^s radiate in a stellate fashion around the equator {equatorial arrangement of chromosomes) (fig. 79, 5). This appearance has given rise to the term aster or monaster, which is often applied to this stage of karyokinesis. It is usually now that the chromosomes begin to split longitudinally, each into two parts (fig. 83, B); but even before this stage and whilst the threads are still convoluted it is apparent that they are double, although they are not actually separated. The process of separation {metahinesis) begins at the apex of each V and extends along the limbs, and the resulting apices begin to pass towards the respective poles of the nucleus, one to each, whilst the ends of the limbs are still in contact with one another at the equator (fig. 83, C). But soon the separation becomes completed and the resulting chromosomes pass bodily towards the respective nuclear poles, where they again tend to group themselves in a stellate manner (fig. 83, E). The double figure which is thereby produced is known as the diaster and its formation marks the ■completion of the object of karyokinesis—viz. the separation of the split chromosomes. The movement of the daughter or secondary chromosomes (which have resulted from the splitting of the primary chromosomes) towards the poles takes place along the fibres of the division-spindle, especially along those near its surface, which appear to guide the chromosomes, and have even, but on insufficient grounds, been supposed to contract and draw them towards the respective centro- somes. When the diaster is formed by the passage towards the centrosomes and nuclear poles of the two sets of secondary chromosomes, and by their grouping near and partly around these, they may be regarded as already forming two nuclei, the daughter-nuclei (fig. 77, 1). These undergo a series of changes which result in the re-establishment of a reticular structure in the nuclear chromatin : these changes form the telophase. They consist either of an outgrowth from the chromosomes of lateral offsets which join them together into a network, or a clump- ing together of the chromosomes of each daughter-nucleus to form a chromatin mass (fig. 79), the apparent fusion beginning at the middle of the chromosomes. This mass undergoes vacuolisation and is thus eventually converted into a sort of spongework, the strands of which are connected by lateral offsets with one another. In this way there becomes formed a chromatin network, at the periphery of which a membrane 1 It has also been described in erythroblasts (Van der Stricht), testicle-cells of Myriopods (Prenant, La Cellule, 1887), amnion of rat (Solger, Anat. Anz. 1891), cornea of Triton (Geberg), and in many embryonic cells (Kostanecki, Anat. Hefte, 1892). - On tlie mechanism of the formation of the division-spindle, see F. Hermann, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxvii. 1891; Kostanecki and Siedlecki, ibid, xlviii. 1897; Kostanecki, ibid. xlix. 1897; R. v. Erlanger, ibid.