TEETH 500 It is further found, on treatment with acid, that a very thin membrane {enamel- cuiicle, NasmytJis membrane) entirely covers the outer surface of the enamel of unworn teeth (figs. 727, 728). This membrane forms a protective covering to the enamel. Chemically it is of a horny nature, and withstands prolonged boiling as well as the action of strong acids and most other re-agents. It is formed of short flattened prisms, the uncalcified remains of the last formed portions of the enamel prisms. After the action of nitrate of silver, it exhibits markings like those seen in a pavement-epithelium. Cement.—The crusta petrosa or cement is the third hard substance that enters into the formation of the teeth. It is a layer of true bone, slightly modified in structure, investing that part of the dentine which is not protected by the enamel (figs. 721, 722). It covers the whole fang, towards the lower end of which it becomes gradually thicker ; it is specially developed at the apex, and along the grooves of the compound fangs. As life advances, the cement generally increases Fig. 729.—Enamel-prisms. (Kolliker.) Magnified 350 diameters. A, fragments and- single columns of enamel, isolated by the action of hydrochloric acid. B, surface of a small fragment of enamel, showing the hexagonal ends of the prisms. in thickness, especially near the point of the fang, where it sometimes blocks up the orifice leading to the pulp-cavity. The crusta petrosa is lamellar in structure; it contains lacunse and canaliculi resembling those of bone, but larger and more irregular (figs. 723,1, 730, e). Where the cement is very thick it may contain Haversian canals. On the milk-teeth the cement is thinner, and contains fewer cells. Perforating and decussating fibres, similar to those of ordinary bone, occur in the cement. It is covered externally by the dental periosteum (figs. 717, 730), by means of which it is firmly fixed into its bony socket. Secondary dentine.—Certain varieties of hard tissue are liable to be formed in the pulp- eavity of a tooth after the regular production of the dentine is completed. The chief kinds hitherto described are the following : 1. Osteodentine (Owen).—This is a hard substance somewhat resembling bone in structure, which sometimes becomes deposited within the pulp-cavity. It is traversed by canals, which contain blood-vessels and pulp-tissue, and which may be surrounded by concentric lamellae like the Haversian canals of bone. From these canals numerous tubules radiate, larger than the canaliculi of bone, resembling, in this respect, and also in their mode of ramification, the tubes of the dentine. The osteodentine may or may not coalesce with the previously formed dentine. 2. Sentlne of repair (Salter).—Opposite places where the outer surface of the dentine has become denuded, so that the peripheral ends of the tubules are there exposed, as may happen in the crown from injury or wear of the enamel, or at the cervix from continued friction