LIVER 570 portal fissure and so away by tlie hepatic duct. This last joins with the duct of the gall-bladder to form the common bile-duct, which opens into the duodenum along with the duct of the pancreas. F. B. Mall' has pointed out that although the hepatic lobules appear to represent units of liver- substance—especially in such animals as the pig and camel, in which they are entirely surrounded and separated from one another by connective tissue continuous with that of Glisson’s capsule—neverthe- less it is logical to regard as the true gland-unit the area of liver-substance drained by the ultimate branch of one of the interlobular bile-ducts, and supplied with blood by the ultimate branch of one of the interlobular portal veins and by the accompanying branch of the hepatic artery. Such an area would include portions of several of the units usually described as liver-lobules, and would more accurately represent the lobule of an ordi- nary gland, which is always the part connected with the expansion—simple or branched—of the end of a gland-duct, and always receives the terminal branch of an artery. The hepatic cells are protoplasmic bodies, polyhedral in shape ; many of them have two nuclei. They contain granules and globules of various kinds, such as pigment, fat, and glycogen (fig. 827), but true secre- tion-granules have not been demonstrated within them. They are probably united with one another throughout the lobule into a syncytium by protoplasmic bridges ; the intracellular canaliculi are con- Fig. 832.—Section of babbit’s livee with THE INTEKCELLULAB NETWOBK OF BILE- CANALICULI INJECTED. (E. Hei’ing.) Highly magnified. Two or three layers of cells are repre- sented ; h, b, blood-capillaries. A B Fig. 833.—Sketches illustkating the mode of commencement of the bile-canaeicui.i WITHIN THE LiVEB-CELLS. (Heidenliaiu, after Kupffer.) A. Canaliculi of the rabbit’s liver artificially injected from the hepatic duct with Berlin-blue solution. The intercellular canaliculi are seen to give off minute twigs, which penetrate into the liver-cells, and there terminate in vacuole-like enlargements. B. From a frog’s liver naturally injected with sulph-indigotate of soda. A similar appear- ance is obtained, but the communicating twigs are ramified. tinuous across these bridges. The secretion which the liver-cells form passes into the intei'cellular bile-canals by fine channels in the protoplasm of the cells (fig. 833) , but it is uncertain if these intracellular channels are preformed or not. ^ American Journal of Anatomy v. 1905. A similar view of liver-structure has been put forward by Sabourin (see Prenant and Bouin, Histologie, t. ii. 1911).