842 J5L00D-VESSELS Blood-vessels of the lung-.'—The bronchial arteries and veins show the same differences as tliose found in the rest of the body, but the pulmonary arteries and veins resemble one another more closely. The terminal arterioles of the lung, if compared with those of the kidney, show a remarkable difference. The internal elastic lamina of the adventitia is represented by ffbrils running a separate course, and is therefore not a lamina at all. Moreover, the elastic fibres of the arterioles are continuous with the elastic fibres covering the air-sacs. By this arrangement, when the air-sacs are distended by an inspiration these elastic fibres are simul- taneously put on the stretch, and in their turn pull on the walls of the blood-vessels and so help to dilate them. In the cat and monkey certain vessels may occasionally be found in which the only demonstrable elastic tissue is composed of circular fibres, which would naturally tend to counteract the pull exerted on the vessel-wall during inspiration. Except in these vessels, which are rare, the general arrangement in both the larger arterioles and venules is to have a longitudinal set of elastic fibres next to the lumen; then in the muscular coat a number of circular fibres, and, finally, in the external coat other longitudinal fibres. Umbilical and placental vessels.^—The structure of these vessels varies considerably according to their situation, ix. whether examined in parts which are within the embryo or in parts which lie outside it. The structure of the external umbilical arteries is very character- istic, for although large vessels they contain no elastic lamina in the intima. Immediately external to the endothelium is a layer of non-striped muscle running longitudinally, and outside the latter a circular coat of muscle. Such elastic tissue as exists is found scattered in the form of a few longitudinal and oblique fibres between the muscle-bundles. The inner longitudinal coat of muscle-fibres is especially rich in elastic fibres running longitudinally, and here elastic membranes may be present. The tunica media abuts directly upon Wharton’s jelly, a tunica adventitia and vasa vasorum being absent. At birth the peculiar arrangement of the muscle- fibres and the absence of an elastic coat make it possible for the artery to become completely occluded on section or rupture; thereby preventing the new-born from bleeding to death. The internal portion of the umbilical artery has Wharton’s jelly replaced by the fibro-elastic mantle-zone of Herzog ; the circular muscle-layer shows fewer and fewer elastic fibres, and the inner longitudinal elastic layer is gradually replaced by a true internal elastic lamina. The umbilical vein differs from the arteries in remaining patent when the umbilical cord is severed. It possesses a well-marked internal elastic lamina next to the endothelium, and an enormously developed muscular coat, the fibres of which run in a longitudinal direction internally and externally, whde most of the middle fibres run in a circular direction. The elastic fibres increase in amount as we trace them from within outwards. The internal division of the umbilical vein is sharply defined, for the internal elastic lamina of the outer division ceases suddenly; at the same time the white fibrous tissue between the muscle-fibres becomes more abundant. The muscle-fibres of the tunica media run mostly longitudinally; there are, however, a few circular fibres. The adventitia becomes gradualW stronger and there are developed in it numerous coarse elastic fibres which run longitudinally. The placental vessels differ from the umbilical in the following manner :—The superficial arteries contain fewer elastic fibres and membranes; the superficial veins possess no internal elastic lamina and only a few elastic fibres, and their muscular tissue is not arranged in bundles. Mechanical stimulation of the placental arteries leads to their dilatation. Blood-vessels of domestic animals.—The axillary vessels in the domestic animals, on being compared with one another, show the following points.^ The larger the animal the larger are the endothelial cells ; elastic tissue is well developed in the intima of the horse, donkey, and ox, feebly developed in the pig, and absent in the dog ; muscle-fibres occur in the intima, especially where branching of the vessels occurs. The internal elastic lamina of the arteries is developed in inverse proportion to the number of elastic fibres in the intima. From the shoulder to the elbow-joint elastic fibres are especially abundant in the tunica media, while from the elbow-joint to the digits the muscular tissue increases relatively more and more. But the alteration of the vessel-wall brought about by this decrease of the circular elastic tissue in the tunica media is counterbalanced by an increase of the longitudinal elastic fibres in the tunica adventitia. The muscle-fibres as a rule run circularly, but are arranged spirally in the sub- scapular artery of the horse ; the external elastic lamina is absent in the horse, donkey, and ox, but well developed in the sheep and dog. The tunica adventitia is characterised by the longitudinal elastic fibres becoming more and more prominent as we pass from the central to the peripheral end of tlie arteries, and the increase in the clastic tissue of the tunica adventitia, as just pointed out, counteracts the diminished development of the elastic tissue in the tunica media. ^ Linser, Anat. Hefte, xiii. 1900 ; J. Miller, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xl. 1905. ' B. Heimeberg, Anat. Hefte, xix. 1902. ^ Baum and Thienel, Arch. f. inikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1904