NODES OF RANVIER 229 of the nerve-fibre. Some nerve-fibres—grey or non-medullated fibres are com- posed entirely of this axon, with perhaps a delicate (protoplasmic ?) sheath ; these fibres exhibit elliptical nuclei at frequent intervals. ^ Such non-medullated nerve-fibr(?s occur only in the peripheral offsets from the sympathetic ganglia. All other nerve-fibres {mcdidlated fibres) have a medullar}^ or myelin sheath immediately surrounding the axis-cylinder, and those outside the central nervous system have in addition a membranous sheath external to the medullary sheath : this membranous sheath has nuclei at regular and somewhat distant intervals on its internal siu'face, partly imbedded in the medul- lary sheath; it is known as the nucleated sheath of Schwann or 7ieurolemma. Nodes or constrictions of Ranvier.— At equal regular intervals between the nuclei of the neurolemma occur interruptions or con- strictions in the medullary sheath (fig. 357) which seem to be produced by the dipping in of the neurolemma towards the axis-cylinder, around which it appears to form a narrowed band, which was termed by Ranvier the constricting band. By these constrictions of Ranvier the nerve- fibre is divided up into a series of equal segments, each of which has a nucleus of the sheath of Schwann at about the middle of its length. On either side of each constriction the medullary sheath is usually somewhat swollen (fig. 365), giving a nodular appearance to the nerve-fibre at the constrictions, like the nodes upon a bamboo- stem : hence the name nodes, which has been applied to these parts of the fibre. Although the medullary sheath is interrupted at the constrictions, the axis-cylinder passes through uninterruptedly, and the neurolemma or sheath of Schwann is also continued over the node, although it is uncertain whether the continuity is not effected by the intermediation of cement-substance like that which connects together many epithelioid cells. The chief reason for believing that this may be the case is the circumstance that the ‘ constricting band ’ is stained by nitrate of silver in the same way as the intercellular cementing substance of epithelial tissues (fig. 358). Staining fluids penetrate the nerve-fibre more readily at this point, and as the result of this penetration the axis-cylinder may become stained here whilst remaining unstained elsewhere. When this staining of the axis-cylinder at the node is effected by nitrate of silver, the result of the combination of the coloration of axis-cylinder and of constricting band is the production of the appearance of a cross at each node : an appearance sometimes known as the cross of Ranvier. If the colora- tion of the axis-cylinder by nitrate of silver is carefully observed with a high magnifying power it is often seen to f m li R Fig. 357.—Pobtions of two nerve- fibres STAINED WITH OSMIC ACID (from a young rabbit). Diagram- matic. 425 diameters. B, B, nodes of Ranvier, with axis- cylinder passing through ; a, neuro- lemma ; c, opposite the middle of the segment, indicates the nucleus and protoplasm lying between the neurolemma and the medullary sheath. In A the nodes are wider, and the inte rsegmental substance more apparent than in B. (Drawn by <T. E. Neale .)