FUNCTIONS OF NUCLEUS AND CENTROSOME 57 Respective functions of nucleus and centrosome in cell-division. From the description of kaiyokinetic cell-division which has been given it might perhaps be inferred that the essential function of the nucleus is to initiate and produce the division of the cell, and this is in fact the view which until recent years was universally held. It would, however, be more correct to say that in those cells where they occur the centrosome and astrosphere initiate and govern cell-division rather than the nucleus. This is strikingly shown with the ovum, which, after the reduction-division resulting in the extrusion of the second polar globule, is found to be destitute of centrosome and astrosphere. These are supplied by the spermatozoon in fertilisation, and without a centrosome the ‘ matured * ovum, although possessing a nucleus, is incapable of division. That it is the centrosome or atrosphere and not the head (male pronucleus) of the spermatozoon which starts the division of the ovum is shown by the fact that the male pronucleus has occasionally been found to become atrophied (in abnormal cases) ; nevertheless cell-division may be com- menced and completed. It is also a well-known fact that many ova in the lower animals undergo complete development without the advent of the sperm-cell (parthenogenesis). In these cases either the centrosome does not disappear from the ovum or a new one is produced in the protoplasm. That the female pronucleus may also be dispensed with is shown by the circumstance that ova and parts of ova of echinoderms, which have been deprived of their nucleus, may still be fertilised by spermatozoa and undergo division. Nor is it necessary in these ova for a spermatozoon to be introduced, for various artificial means will start the division, such as increasing the osmotic pressure of the sea-water, and the addition of minute quantities of certain salts and other substances, e.g. fatty acids and hydrocarbons, to the water (R. Hertwig, A. D. Mead, T. H. Morgan, J. Loeb, E. B. Wilson, and others). In every one of these cases where division of the ovmn is started it is always preceded by the appearance of one or more astrospheres in the protoplasm and by the formation of a membrane on the surface of the protoplasm. Since similar appearances may be produced in colloid solutions by electrical, chemical, and mechanical agencies, and such appearances are in these cases regarded as being due to the formation of localised polar difierentiation accom- panied by gelation within the colloid solution, it has been conjectured that the astrospheres which appear after fertilisation—whether natural (through the spermatozoon) or artificial (from chemical reagents)—are of an analogous nature, and that the essence of fertilisation is the introduction into the ovum of some chemical substance which produces an alteration of this character in the colloid solutions which constitute its protoplasm.^ If this view is correct, the function of the nucleus in cell-division is, as Roux and Weismann have supposed, connected rather with the transmission of characteristic features and modes of difierentiation (heredity) than with the initiation and direction of cell-division. Besides this the nucleus has important functions in connexion with the general nutrition and with the special metabolic changes of the cell; doubtless these functions are also exercised during the division of the cell. Science, xxiii. 1906 ; S. Gutherz, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixix. 1906-7 ; H. E. Jordan, Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908; P. Buchan, Arch. f. Zellforschung, iii. 1909 (the literature up to date will be found in this paper). A heterochromooome does not occur in somatic cells, nor in the female generative cells. Nevertheless in some animals {e.g. Aphides) the determination of sex certainly depends upon the ova, and not on spermatozoa, ^ Cf. Fischer and Ostwald, loc. cit. For the literature of artificial parthenogenesis, see J. Loeb, The Dynamics of Living Matter, 1906; and Address delivered before the International Medical Congress, Buda-Pesth, 1908.