294 arkanCtEMENt of cells anl> fibres in nerve-centres ARRANGEMENT OF NERVOUS ELEMENTS IN THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVE-CENTRES. The cerehro-spinal nerve-centres include the spinal cord {medulla spinalis), the Imlb [medulla oblongata), the pons, the eerebellum, the mid-brain, and the eerebrum. A complete account of the structure of all these parts and of their relation to one another is given in the part of this work which deals with Neurology (Vol. III., Part 1). It will be sufficient to intimate here the main features of structure and the general arrangement of cells and fibres which characterise each of these parts. In all sections of nerve-centres grey and white matter are distinguishable. In the spinal cord the grey matter is found exclusively in the more central parts of the section : in the medulla oblongata, pons, and mid-brain it becomes less confined to those parts and extends to other portions of the sectional area, so that the distinction between the grey and white matter is in many places confused ; in the cerebrum and cerebellum a sharp distinction between grey and white matter again shows itself, but the larger part of the grey matter lies at the periphery (cerebral and c.a.. Fig. 465.—From a section oe human spinal cord showing the superficial NEUROGLIA. (Schiifer.) a, a, superficial neuroglia, composed of a feltwork of fibres, with the nuclei of the cell-bodies interspersed amongst them; b, medullated nerve-fibres of the white substance, in section, with neuroglia between them, c, c ; c.a, corpora amylacea. cerebellar cortex), a smaller portion being found near the centres of those organs, while the whole of the intermediate substance is formed of white matter. In all parts of the cerebro-spinal centres the white matter is formed of medullated nerve-fibres, unprovided with a membranous sheath. The fibres run in definite directions in the white substance ; longitudinally for the most part in the spinal cord, bulb, pons, and mid-brain, but with many fibres crossing from side to side, usually in an arcuate manner ; radially in the cerebrum and cerebellum, where they diverge from the so-called peduncles of these organs towards the grey cortex. The nerve-fibres are supported by numerous neuroglia-cells and -fibres, which vary in arrangement in different parts. In most situations the neuroglia-cells are stellate, and give off long slender fibres which penetrate everywhere between the nerve- fibres. But near the surface of the cerebrum and cerebellum (fig. 315, p. 206), the neuroglia-cells and -fibres have a general direction vertical to the surface. And from the ependyma-cells of the central canal of the cord and ventricles of the brain fibres indistinguishable from neuroglia-fibres are continued for long distances through both the grey and white matter ; in the embryo these fibres reach the surface (fig. 312). In many parts of the nerve-centres there is a thin layer of neuroglia formed by a feltwork of fibres immediately within the vascular membrane (pia