STRUCTURE OF NERVE-CENTRES 810 definitely known. Still more deeply placed in the tegmentum is the superior cerebellar peduncle, which in sections through the posterior tubercles (fig. 480, .s.c.p.) may be seen decussating with its fellow of the opposite side, and in sections through the anterior tubercles is observed to be continued into the red nucleus (fig. 482, r.n.). From the cells of the red nucleus on the other hand fibres arise, which cross the raphe again and pass downwards through the pons and bulb, eventually reaching the spinal cord, in which they can be traced in its lateral column, vertical to the crossed pyramid tract, finally ending in the grey matter of the lateral and ventral horns. The bundle which they form is termed the ruhro-s'pinal bundle. Structure of the corpora quadrigemina. — The substance of the corpora quadrigemina proper differs in structure in the two pairs of tubercles, posterior and anterior. That of the posterior tubercle (fig. 481) has a central nucleus of grey matter with a white layer superficial to it and another between it and the grey Fig. 481.—Akeangement op cells a»d pibees in posteeioe coepoea quadeigemina. (Cajal.) A, principal nucleus; B, C, cortical white layer; D, grey matter around aqueduct; a, &, c, cl, g, li, fibres of lateral fillet; e, axons of cells passing to brachium ;/, fibres of brachium entering cortical layer; y, collaterals of dorsal longitudinal bundle passing to oculo-motor nucleus; I, deej) white layer. matter of the aqueduct. The cells of the grey nucleus send their axons chiefly into the superficial layer. The deeper white layer is largely composed of fibres from the lateral or acoustic fillet which end in the nucleus. The anterior tubercle shows four layers of cells (fig. 483). Those of the superficial layer have for the most part a horizontal arrangement; those of the second a vertical arrangement; while in the third and fourth the cells are more irregularly placed. The substance of the third layer is largely formed, between its cells, of fibres derived from the optic tract; these run obliquely towards the surface and end by ramifying amongst the cells of the more superficial layers. The deepest layer contains some afferent fibres from the fillet, but most of its fibres are efferent, for the axons of many of the cells of the tubercle pass into it. Some of these axons are passing to form the ventral longitudinal bundle above referred to.