407 STRUCTUKE OF THE SPLEEN si^es. The interstices between the reticulum-cells are, in sections of the hardened organ, always found to be occupied by blood (fig. 610, a), white corpuscles occurring in larger proportion than in ordinary blood, especially in the neighbourhood of the Malpighian corpuscles to be immediately described. In close relation to the reticulum-cells, and occupying some of the smaller interstices between them, rounded, unbranched cells are seen, larger than white blood-corpuscles, but otherwise much resembling them {s'pleen-'pJiagocytes, fig. 610, d). These cells are highly amoeboid and phagocytic, and, as well as the reticulum-cells, often contain both red blood-corpuscles in various stages of disintegration, and clumps of pigment- granules. The phagocytes are also seen in the venules (fig. 610, h). Some observers have noted the presence of nucleated red corpuscles or erythroblasts (similar to Fig. (50(J. —Vertical section oe a portion op the monkey’s spleen, as seen WITH A LOW POWER. (Scliiifer.) those found in marrow) both in the splenic pulp and in the blood of the splenic vein ; but these are difficult to find except in young animals or in animals which have a short time previously lost much blood. Giant-cells, with numerous or multi-lobed nuclei like those of bone-marrow, are also found in the pulp of fcetal and young animals (fig. 611). Blood-vessels.—The splenic artery and vein, alike remarkable for their great proportionate size, haying entered the spleen at the hilum by six or more branches, ramify in its interior, enclosed within the trabecular sheaths already described. The smaller branches of the arteries have an adventitia derived from the trabeculae, and pass into the proper substance of the spleen, dividing into small tufts of arterioles arranged in pencils (fig. 612). But before they thus terminate, the adventitious fibrous coat which is prolonged over them from the trabeculae becomes transformed into lymphoid tissue, which forms a comparatively thick sheath along each. This lymphoid sheath is abruptly dilated here and there into small oval or spheroidal enlargements, measuring on an average 0.36 mm. in diameter, but varying in size from much smaller than this up to 1 mm., and closely