442 MUCOUS MEMBRANES Structure.—A mucous membrane is composed of a connective tissue corium lined by epithelium. Many mucous membranes have also at their attached surface a layer of plain muscle known as the tunica muscularis mucosce, which may be considered to belong to the corium. The epithelium varies in its characters. It may be stratified as in the mouth and throat, transitional as in the bladder, columnar as in the intestine, or ciliated as in the respiratory tract and uterus. When a mucous membrane is covered with an epithelium of the stratified variety, the mucus moistening its surface is derived from glands in or beneath the membrane, which are lined with secreting cells ; but when a columnar epithelium or a ciliated epithelium covers the surface, mucus is formed in cells within this layer, and the glands of the membrane may also secrete mucus or may be devoted to the elaboration of some special secretion. As has been already explained in dealing with secreting glands, the cells which are concerned in the production of mucus often become greatly distended with the accumulated granules or droplets of secretion and take the shape of a goblet or chalice. In many such cells the secretion may be seen to have become exuded from the free and apparently open end of the cell as a droplet of mucus. A certain number of these goblet- or chalice-cells are almost always to be found in the columnar or ciliated epithelium which covers mucous membranes. After dis- charge of their secretion their cavity becomes again filled with secretion-granules. The cells in question are analogous to the unicellular glands met with in the integument of some invertebrate animals. The corium of a mucous membrane consists mainlv of connective tissue, either areolar or reticular. It is often bounded next to the epithelium by a basement- membrane, and is separated from the submucous tissue by the muscularis mucosce. A basement-membrane is not everywhere demonstrable, but where it is well marked it appears in section as a thin line immediately underlying the epithelium. Viewed on the fiat and with the superjacent epithelium removed, the membrane in question seems at first sight homogeneous ; but treatment with nitrate of silver sometimes brings to view the outlines of flattened cells of which it is in part composed. In some places these cells, instead of adhering closely by their edges, intercommunicate by branching processes so as to form a network instead of a continuous membrane. Besides such flattened cells, which cannot always be seen, the basement-membrane is formed of a layer of connective-tissue ground- substance which is in many cases pervaded by closely reticulating fibres. The basement-membrane follows all the eminences and depressions of the surface of the mucous membrane, dipping down to take part in the formation of the wall of the glands, and passing over the raised villi and other prominences. The muscularis mucosce forms the deepest part of the corium, but it is not everywhere present. It is best developed in the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, in some parts of which it may consist of two layers, in the outer of which the fibres are longitudinal, in the inner circular in direction. From its inner surface muscular bundles bend inwards into the thickness of the mucous membrane, passing between the glands contained within it, and even into its prominences, so as in many cases to reach and become attached to the basement- membrane covering them (as in the villi of the small intestine). The muscularis mucosae is a part therefore of the mucous membrane, and is not to be confounded with the muscular coat proper, which forms a separate layer in most of the hollow viscera. The connective-tissue of the corium varies much in structure in difierent parts. In some situations, as in the gullet, bladder, and vagina, fibrous connective tissue is abundant, and extends throughout its whole thickness, forming a con- tinuous and tolerably compact web, and rendering the mucous membrane of