VESSELS OE LUNGS 587 The capillaries are fine, and the network they form so close that the meshes are scarce!}^ as wide as the vessels themselves. They are very superficial, being covered only by the thin layer of tesselated epithelium above described, while, as just mentioned, in the partitions between contiguous alveoli the vessels of the network project on either side in an arched or loop-like manner into the cavities of the alveoli. The mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes, especially near the air- cells, is partly supplied with blood from branches of the pulmonary artery. The radicles of the 'pulmonary veins arise from the capillary network of the alveoli and from that of the smaller bronchial tubes; several venules arise from each lobule. They are collected in the septa between and outside the infundibula, apart from the terminations of the arteries and bronchioles. The branches of those veins which arise from the infundibula near the surface of the lung run alone for a certain distance through the substance of the organ. Some of them join deeper veins ; others as they pass towards the hilum remain superficial, forming a wide- meshed plexus near the surface of the lung, finally tending towards the hilum to join the larger veins near the root of the lung. The veins from the more deeply lying infundibula form frequent com- munications, and finally coalesce into large branches, which ultimately accom- pany the bronchial tubes and arteries, coursing as a rule in front of the bron- chial tubes, and thus proceed to the .root of the lung. In their course to- gether through the lung the artery is usually found above and behind a bronchial tube, and the vein below and in front. . i The pulmonary vessels differ from the systemic in regard to their con- tents, inasmuch as the arteries convey dark blood, whilst the veins carry red blood. The pulmonary veins, unlike the other veins of the body, are not more capacious than their correspond- ing arteries; indeed, according to Winslow, Santorini, Haller, and others, they are somewhat less so. There is less difference in structure between these arteries and veins than between those of the systemic circulation. The pul- monary veins have no valves. The arteries of different secondary lobules are usually independent, the veins freely anastomose. Bronchial vessels.—’The bronchial arteries and veins, which are much smaller than the pulmonary vessels, carry blood for the nutrition of the lung. The bronchial arteries, from one to three in number for each lung, arise from the aorta, or from intercostal arteries, and follow the divisions of the air-tubes through the lung. They are ultimately distributed in three ways : (1) many of their branches ramify in the bronchial lymphatic glands, in the coats of the large blood-vessels, and in the walls of the bronchial tubes, supplying an outer capillary plexus with transverse meshes to the muscular coat, and an inner plexus with close longitudinal meshes to the mucous membrane : this plexus, in the lobular bronchioles, is continuous with that supplied by the pulmonary artery ; (2) others form plexuses in the interlobular areolar tissue ; (3) branches pass to the surface of the lung beneath the pleura and join the network of pulmonary venous capillaries found there. Fig. 855.—Section of injected lung of rabbit, INCLUDING SEVERAL CONTIGUOUS ALVEOLI. (Szymonowicz.) Magnified 300 diameters.