NAILS 461 The ridges and papillne are highly vascular, and have also an abundant nerve-supply. The nerves of the papillas end in free ramifications, as well as in end-bulbs and tactile corpuscles. Ruffini corpuscles occur in the ridges ; rarely Pacinian corpuscles ; free endings are also found here.' The nail, as already mentioned, is made up of a large number of horny epithelial cells which are broad and hard, but at the same time very thin, and so intimately connected together that their respective limits are scarcely discernible. They form the horny part or nail proper, cohering in parallel and sometimes sHghtly curved strata.’^ Air is sometimes developed between the strata, and gives the appearance of white specks in the substance of the nail. Below them are cells which are softer and of a polygonal shape. The deepest layer differs somewhat from the others in having its cells elongated and arranged perpendicularly, as in the case of the epidermis. Thus under the nail proper (fig. 670, r.m.) is a layer of cells corresponding with the rete mucosum of the epidermis, whilst the nail proper corresponds with a portion of the horny layer. The most superficial cells of the Malpighian layer of the nail have a granular aspect; this is due—^not to the presence of eleidin but to the spiny processes which unite them to one another. As Fig. 672.—Appeakance op nail-substance in the pobm of granules of onychogenic MATERIAL IN SOME OF THE CELLS COVERING THE NAIL-BED. (Kblliker.) in the case of the ordinary epidermis, the hardened scales of the nails may be made to reassume their cellular character by treatment with caustic alkali, and afterwards with water : it is then seen that they still retain an appearance of nuclei. Formation and growth of the nails.—In the third month of intra-uterine life, the part of the embryonic corium which becomes the matrix of the nail is marked ofi by the commencing curvilinear groove, which limits it posteriorly and laterally. Part of the epidermis on the matrix then begins to assume, in the middle of its thickness, the characters of a nail (fig. 671); this is at first im- bedded in the embryonic cuticle, in which it occupies the position of the stratum lucidum, and is covered by a thick layer of more loosely arranged scales, to which the name of eponychium has been applied (corresponding to the epitrichium of the general surface of the epidermis). The nail rudiment, which is preceded by and formed from granular cells somewhat similar to those of the stratum granulosum of the epidermis (fig. 672), first appears near the posterior part of the matrix, and from this point is developed forwards over the bed and backwards into the groove.^ After the end of the fifth month it becomes free at the anterior border, breaking through the thick layer of epidermis which covers it superficially. The remains ^ A. S. Dogiel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiv. 1904; Vitali, Internat. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxiii. 1906. ^ For variations in the arrangements of the strata and a discussion of the manner in which they are caused, see v. Brunn in v. Bardeleben’s Handbuch der Anatomie, 1897. ^ Zander, Arch. f. Anat. 1886; Kiilliker, Zeitschr. f. wise. Zool. xlvii. 1888. See further on the structure and growth of the human nail, Branca, Annales de dermat. et syphilis, 1910.