EPIDERMIS 447 more flattened, conformably to the surface, until a layer, often incomplete, is readied in which the cells have a markedly granular appearance (Langerhans ’). This has been termed the stratum granulosiim (fig. 654). Tlie granules in the cells are composed of a peculiar matter {eleidin of Ranvier,^ heratoliyalin of Waldeyer^), staining deeply with carmine and hsematoxylin (fig. 657), and they are believed to have some connexion with the formation of the horny substance in the more superficial cells, since they occur the more abundantly the thicker the stratum corneum covering them (Klein). In places where the epidermis is thin, the stratum granulosum may be inconspicuous or absent. But a genetic relation between eleidin and keratin is rendered improbable if the statement which has been made by some stratum corneum stratum luciclum stratum granulosum \ rete mucosum vera Pig. 654.—Vektical section thkough the skin of the palmar side of the finger, SHOWING TWO OR THREE PAPILLA (ONE OF WHICH CONTAINS A TACTILE CORPUSCLE) AND THE DEEPER LAYERS OF THE EPIDERMIS. (Schiifer.) Magnified about 200 diameters. authors is correct, that in some parts of the epidermis where a large amount of keratin is produced eleidin granules are not formed within the cells of the rete mucosum. The chemical reactions of the eleidin or keratohyalin granules have been investigated by Waldeyer, \vho finds that the substance composing them is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether and acetic acid, but soluble in caustic alkalis and in mineral acids. Ranvier was unable to find eleidin in birds, reptiles, and amphibia, although he found it in all stratified epithelium in mammals. In the nail-matrix it is, however, replaced by a somewhat different material; and in other keratin-forming epithelia, substitutes may also occur. According to Rabl ^ the keratohyalin-granules are derived from material furnished by the nucleus, but not from its chromatin. The granules do not appear to be transformed into i * ? § : ... : 9 ■S 6J, a a ^ - ! V A*? ‘s 9 ^ c>-. j ^ ^ .(/J S ■sf-, is / » T •% J a V 'sa> ^ 1 Arch. f. mikr. Anat. ix. 1876 Henle Festschrift, 1882. ^ Travaux, 1884. Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlviii. 1897.