ARTERIES 329 carmine-gelatine required to distend the blood-vessels until the finest capillaries are of such a diameter as to allow of the easy passage of red blood-corpuscles. Mode of distribution.—The arteries usually occupy protected situations ; thus, after coming out of the great visceral cavities of the body, they run along the limbs for the most part on the adductor side, so that when the limbs are flexed, all the main vessels are out of harm’s way. As they proceed in their course the arteries divide into branches; the division may take place in difierent modes. An artery may at once resolve itself into two or more branches, no one of which greatly exceeds the rest in magnitude, or it may give off several branches in succession and still maintain its character as a trunk. The branches come off at different angles, most commonly so as to form an acute angle with the further part of the trunk, but sometimes a right or an obtuse angle, of which there are examples in the origin of the intercostal arteries, and in the distribution of the vessels supplying the two muscular coats of the alimentary canal. An artery, after a branch has gone off from it, is smaller than before, but usually continues uniform in diameter or cvlindrical until the next secession ; thus it was found by Hunter that the long carotid artery of the camel does not diminish in calibre throughout its length. A branch of an artery is less than the trunk from which it springs, but the combined area of the transverse sections or the collective capacity of all the branches into which an artery divides, is greater than the calibre of the parent vessel immediately above the point of division. The increase in the joint capacity of the branches over that of the trunk is not in the same proportion in every instance of division, and there is at least one case known in which there is no enlargement, namely, the division of the aorta into the common iliac and sacral arteries ; still, notwithstanding this and other possible exceptions, as a general rule an enlargement of area takes place. From this it is plain that, since the area of the arterial system increases as its vessels divide, the capacity of the smallest vessels and capillaries will be greatest; and, as the same rule applies to the veins, it follows that the arterial and venous systems may be represented, as regards capacity, by two cones whose apices (truncated it is true) are at the heart, and whose bases are united in the capillary system. The effect of this must be to make the blood move more slowly as it advances along the arteries to the capillaries, like the current of a river when it flows in a larger channel, and to accelerate its speed as it returns from the capillaries to the venous trunks. When arteries unite they are said to anastomose or inosculate. Anastomoses may occur in arteries of considerable size, as those at the base of the brain, those of the hand and foot, and the mesentery, but they are much more frequent in the smaller vessels. Such inosculations admit of a free communication between the currents of blood, and must tend to equalise distribution and pressure, and to obviate the effects of local interruption. Arteries commonly pursue a more or less straight course, but in some parts they are tortuous. Examples of this in the human body are afforded by the arteries of the lips and of the uterus, but more striking instances may be seen in some of the lower animals, as in the well-known case of the long and tortuous spermatic arteries of the ram and the bull. In the peculiar arrangement of vessels named a ‘ rete mirabile ’ an artery suddenly divides into small anastomosing branches, which latter unite again to form one vessel. Of such retia mirabilia there are many examples in the lower animals, but the purpose which they serve is not always apparent. The best known instances are: the rete mirabile of Galen, which is formed by the intracranial part of the internal carotid artery of the sheep and several other quadrupeds, and the glomerular plexuses in the kidney.