35 NUCLEUS stated, it appears in the fresh condition completely structureless, but after fixation by certain reagents followed by staining with an acid dye, it may show the presence of oxyphil granules, which, in contrast with the basiphil granules of the A B Fig. 68.—Two nuclei, bepresented in section, erom intestinal epithelium of a YOUNG SALAMANDER LARVA : ONE, A, STAINED WITH A BASIC DYE (IRON-H.EMATOXYLIN) ; THE OTHER, B, WITH AN ACID DYE (VANADIUM h.ematoxylin). (M. Heidenliain.) In A only the basi-clu*omatin (forming the karyomitome) is visible; its constituent basi-chroinioles are fused to form the anastomosing filaments of the karyomitome. In B the oxychromioles of the karyoplasm are represented; and, in addition, the oxyphil nucleolus. The clear spaces between the rows and groups of chromioles must be imagined occupied by a basiphil karyomitome such as is seen in A. ^ Plasma u. Zelle, 1907, p. 153 ; see also L. Auerbach, Berlin Sitzungsb. 1891, andR. Metzner, Arch, f. Physiol. 1894. ^ Eisen, Journ. Morph, xvii. 1900. D 2 karyomitome are termed oxy-chromioles (M. Heidenliain (fig. 68). The chromatin of the nucleus, espe- cially in phases of division, appears as separate portions of equal size, often in the form of rods (see fig. 69,m'), which may be quite short (fig. 52) or on the other hand may be long and thread- like (figs. 76, 77). Under a high power of the microscope the threads can be resolved into a single or double linear series of basiphil granules strung together by oxyphil material (figs. 65, 66, 67). The portions of the chromatin which thus appear separate are known as the chromosomes. Their constituent particles are the chromioles ^: these, as already stated, may be bound two or three together into larger por- tions or chromomeres by the homo- geneous material, known as linin, and this may give off lateral branches to join adjacent chromosomes. The chromo- somes are persistent individual ele- ments of the nucleus, constant in Fig. 69.—Mesoderm cells of rabbit embryo, UNITING TO FORM A SYNCYTIUM. (MaximoW.) ordinary mesoderm cells; i)i\ a cell in karyokinesis ; a lymphocyte.