654 OVARY abundance in the wall of the follicle ; and there is in addition a considerable development of blood-vessels, which run, accompanied by fibrous tissue, into the folds into which the wall of the follicle is thrown, and give off capillaries that ramify abundantly in the folded wall. But according to the observations of J. Sobotta upon various animals, confirmed by Stratz, Van der Stricht, F. H. A. Marshall and other investigators, the main part of the thickening is due to a simple hypertrophy of the epithelium-cells of the membrana granulosa, into which grow vascular pro- cesses of the wall of the follicle (chiefly from the theca interna) (fig. 950); amongst them a certain number of leucocytes penetrate. Meanwhile the irregular cleft- like space which now alone represents the cavity of the follicle, as well as the opening resulting from the rupture of the follicle and by which its cavity communi- cated with the surface, become occupied by a sort of jelly-like connective tissue, constituting a kind of hilum for the follicle. To this central fibrous band converge the strands of fibrous tissue which accompany the blood-vessels in the folds of the Fig. 951.—Mobe advanced cobpus luteum: of the mouse, showing its fokmation COMPLETED. (Sobotta.) The central cavity is now occupied by jelly-like connective tissue and the converging trabeculae anastomose with one another so as somewhat to break up the columnar arrangement of the luteal cells. hypertrophied wall of the corpus luteum. At the same time the plaited disposi- tion of the wall becomes in great measure obscured, so that a section of a corpus luteum, when advanced in development (fig. 951), exhibits a fibrous framework having a radial disposition, with the intervals between the radiating trabeculae occupied by a tissue almost wholly composed of large yellowish cells. Amongst these cells are numerous cleft-like spaces (lymphatic), and except for the fact that the columnar disposition is less distinct and that the capillary blood-vessels come more closely into relationship with the cells of the tissue, the structural appearances are not unlike those which are met with in the cortical part of the suprarenal capsule. The view that the corpus luteum mainly owes its origin to the membrana granulosa of the Graafian follicle was that originally taken by Bischoff. On the other hand, von Baer considered that it was wholly due to a hypertrophy of the connective-tissue wall of the follicle; many modern authorities have taken this view.' ^ For a full account of the subject see Marshall, op. cit. 1910.