PENIS 632 carried away from these spaces l)y two sets of veins, the one set joining the prostatic plexus and pudendal veins ; the others f>assing into the dorsal vein. Of these last some issue from between the corpus cavernosum and the spongy body of the urethra, encircling the penis nearly at right angles, while others pass more directly into the dorsal vein from the upper surface. The principal arteries of the corpora cavernosa are the cavernous branches of the pudic arteries (profundae penis) of the right and left sides, which run through the., middle of each corpus cavernosum ; but the dorsal artery of the penis also sends small twigs through the fibrous sheath of the corpora cavernosa, along the upper surface, especially in the fore part of the penis. Within the cavernous tissue, the numerous arteries {arteries of the traheculce) are supported by the trabeculae in the middle of which they run, and terminate in branches of capillary minuteness which open into the intertrabecular spaces ; some of the arterial twigs project into the spaces, and there form peculiar curling and somewhat dilated vessels, which Fig. 922.—Section of an artery of the bulbus urethr.e of an adult. (Ebertli.) Magnified 300 diameters. The elastic tissue is stained by Weigert’s method. a, adventitia ; &, muscularis; c, elastica externa ; d, pad of intima with, e, elastic lamellte ; /, elastica interna. were named by J. Muller, helicine arteries. These are usually bound down by small fibrous bands (figs. 920, 921). The helicine arteries are most abundant in the posterior part of the corpora cavernosa,'’ and are found in the corresponding part of the corpus spongiosum urethrae; but they have not been seen in the glans penis. They are more distinct in the human subject than in animals, where they are often missed. Small capillary branches pass from them to supply the tissue of the enclosing sheath; at their extremities the helicine arteries open into the cavernous spaces. In addition, blood passes into the venous spaces from the capillary network of the tunica albuginea and trabecula); some of the small arteries of the trabecula^ open directly into the venous spaces at the periphery of the corpora cavernosa (and also in the bulb of the corpus spongiosum) without tlie intervention of capillaries. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa have a very well marked muscular coat composed entirely of circular fibres; here and there some of the muscle-fibres of the trabeculoB run longitudinally in contact with them, but there is no longitudinal muscular coat. In many of the arteries, both large and small, the intima shows