PHAKYNX '^20 ^gradually extends into the ramifieations. But as long as the gland-substance continues to be ■formed, the growing terminations of the ducts remain solid and bulbous.^ The order of development of the salivary glands is submaxillary, parotid, sublingual.^ Even at an early stage of the formation of alveoli secretion-granules are visible in the alveolar cells, and mucus is found in the ducts. The ‘ crescents ’ are relatively late in making their appearance as distinct structures. THE PHARYNX AND TONSILS, Mucous membrane of the pharynx and fauces.—The mucous membrane of these parts has a smooth, shining, red appearance, and is unprovided with promi- nent papillae, although microscopic papillae of the corium project into the epithelium where this is stratified. It is richly supplied with small racemose mucous glands, and in certain parts, e.q. in the isthmus of the fauces and in the upper or respiratory portion of the pharynx, especially near the apertures of the Eustachian tubes and Fig. 756.—Section through one of the crypts of the tonsils, magnified. (Stbhr.) e, stratified epithelium of general surface, continued into crypt;/,/, follicles or nodules of lymphoid tissue ; opposite each nodule or germ-centre numbers of lymph-cells are passing into and through the epithelium ; s, s, masses of cells which have thus escaped from the tonsil to mix with the saliva as salivary corpuscles. of the posterior nares, there are large accumulations of lymphoid tissue. In the isthmus of the fauces these form the two masses known as the tonsils. The accumu- lations in the upper part of the pharynx have been in like manner termed the pharyn- geal tonsils (pharyngeal adenoids), but the adenoid tissue occurs here in a more diffused condition than in the true tonsils.^ The epithelium is stratified over the whole mucous membrane below the level of the soft palate, but above that level it is for the most part ciliated. The stratified epithelium turns over the edge of the soft palate and extends a short distance upon its upper or posterior surface. Over the pharyngeal tonsil the epithelium is also stratified. The distribution of ciliated ’ Chievitz, Arch. f. Anat. 1885. ^ R. Metzner, Ber. d. d. physiol. Gesellsch. in Zentr, f. Physiol, xxiii. 1909. ^ On the extent of the pharyugeal tonsil in the child see J. Symington, Brit. Med. Journ. October 15, 1910.