158 P,ONE ‘ osteoblasts ’ was assigned to them by Gegenbaurd Some of the osteoblasts are involved in the ossifying jiiatrix, and remain as the corpuscles of the future bone, the spaces enclosing them being the lacunse. The canaliculi, which are at first short, are afterwards extended by absorption, so as to anastomose with those of neighbouring lacunae. Osteoblasts are probably specially modified connective-tissue corpuscles, perhaps of the nature of plasma-cells. But after becoming included within the lacunae they may undoubtedly be regarded as homologous with the lamellar cells of connective tissue. It is improbable that they are produced from leucocytes as suggested by Kassander.^ The ground-substance of the bone, together with the collagenous fibres it contains, is doubtless produced by the osteoblasts. By Gegenbaur, Kolliker, and others, it has been assumed to be a kind of secretion from the cells, and this is the view which has been taken in this work.^ It is believed by other histologists that the ground- substance of bone is formed not outside the cells in an intercellular substance as here described, but by a direct conversion of the protoplasm of some of the osteo- blasts into bony tissue. If this were the case, there ought to be some indication in the formed osseous substance of the cell-areas of which it was made up, but nothing of the kind has been shown to exist. There should, moreover, often be observed osteoblasts which are only partly converted into bony substance, but this also has never been described. And if, as some suppose, the peripheral part of each osteo- blast becomes converted into osseous substance, while the central part and nucleus remain as the corpuscle within a lacuna, the osteoblasts would have to be originally far larger than the permanent lacunae, which is certainly not the case. The view in question is similar to that which supposes ordinary connective tissue to have a like origin (see p. 127). A similar difierence of opinion is held regarding the development of dentine. Meanwhile, the meshes of the bony network, which were occupied as we have seen by one or more blood-vessels, and by numerous osteoblasts, become diminished in extent, and the bone at the same time increased in thickness by the deposit upon the original trabeculae of irregular bony laminae and trabeculae, some of the osteo- blasts remaining, and forming the corpuscles and lacunae as before. The interstices of the bony spongework thus become gradually narrowed, each containing one or more blood-vessels surrounded by osteoblasts. At a later stage increase in thickness takes place by successive depositions of bony lamellae under the periosteum, a concentric deposition occurring at the same time on the walls of the vascular channels. But since the growth in thickness of a membrane bone takes place in exactly the same manner as that of one of the long bones, which will be fully described in a subsequent page, the reader is referred to the account of the process there given. It may be observed that the appearance of the ossifying membrane-bone in the shape of a network of trabeculae seems to be determined by the pre-existence of a vascular network in the embryonie tissue. The new bone everywhere makes its appearance in the spots which are farthest from the vessels, and the bony network everywhere alternates with the vascular net- work. At the edges of the advancing bone the spicules which prolong it pass between and avoid the capillary blood-vessels, which are thus left in the bays between the spicules ; the divergent bunches of osteogenic fibres which prolong the adjacent spicules complete the enclosure of the blood-vessel. After a time the membrane-bone extends so as almost to come into contact with the neighbouring bones. But as long as growth continues, there always remains in 1 Jena Zeitschr. i. 18G4 anti iii. 1807. - Anat. Anz. xviii. 1900. ^ See also v. Korff. Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixix. • E.fj. Waldeyer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. i. 1865. For a recent account in which a similar view is taken, see Disse, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiii. 1909, and Anat. Anz. xxxv. 1909.