347 SINUSOIDS SINUSOIDS. This term was given by Minot' to a special form of blood-vessel occurring in the pro- and meso-nephros, the liver, the heart, suprarenal capsules, the para- thyroid, carotid, and coccygeal glands ; probably also in the lymph-glands, spleen, and thyroid glands of some animals, and perhaps in the ‘ cayernous ’ circulation of erectile tissue, and in the placenta. Sinusoids differ from capillaries in considerably exceeding the diameter of a single red blood-corpuscle, while capillaries rarely allow more than one red cor- puscle to pass at a time. Capillaries tend towards a cylindrical or subcylindrical form, while sinusoids haye irregular shapes and numerous irregular connexions with one another. Capillaries are as a rule surrounded by connectiye tissue, while the endothelium of all embryonic sinusoids lies throughout its whole extent in direct contact with the parenchyma of the organ it occurs in ; although in the adult condition a certain amount of connectiye tissue may make its appearance between the sinusoids and the rest of the organ. According to Lewis, sinusoids may be either purely venous or purely arterial ; while capillaries always form the link between the arterial and the venous systems. A sinusoid is formed by the mutual growing into one another (intercrescence) of the endothelium of a vessel and the parenchyma of an adjacent organ. ‘The proliferating tubules or trabeculfe of an organ encounter a large vessel and invade its lumen, pushing the endothelium before them ; the vessel, on the other hand, sends out branches to circumvent the tubules.’ Generally speaking, sinusoids are more characteristic in embryos than in adult animals. For example, ‘ the liver has its sinusoids rapidly transformed into capilliform vessels ; in the heart, with the addition of the coronary arteries, the sinusoidal circulation is at least supplemented by the capillary.’ In all such cases ‘ the higher forms have vessels of smaller calibre substituted for larger ones directly supplying the blood needs of the tissues ’ (Minot). The gradual narrowing of the sinusoids during progressive embryonic development, and their general character of irregular spaces lined by endothelial cells in direct contact with the gland-substance, are well brought out in figs. 531, 532, which show two stages in the development of the liver sinusoids in the chick. In the adult liver, as has been already pointed out, the endothelium of the blood- channels is largely replaced by separate phagocytic cells, and the blood comes nearly everywhere in contact with the liver-cells. Thus its plasma can pass into fine canaliculi in the cell-protoplasm, which are capable of being easily injected from the portal vein by carmine-gelatine (see p. 26 and fig. 45). SMALL ARTERIES AND VEINS. In vessels a little larger than capillaries (fig. 533) there is added, outside the endothelial layer, a layer of smooth muscular tissue, in the form of the usual long contractile fibre-cells, which are placed circularly around the vessel. The elongated nuclei of these cells may be brought into view by means of acetic acid or by stainiug fluids (fig. 534). This layer corresponds with the middle coat of the larger vessels. In the smallest vessels in which it appears the muscular cells are few and apart, and a single long cell may turn spirally round the tube (Lister) ; in larger vessels, especially those of the arterial system, the muscular cells are more closely arranged. Outside the muscular coat is the areolar or connective- tissue coat, containing fibres and connective-tissue corpuscles, with longitudinally placed nuclei. ^ C. S. Minot, Proceed. Boston Society of Natural History, xxix., 1900; F. T. Lewis, Anat. Anzeig. XXV., 1904.