G7B PARATHYROIDS They are usually flattened, and their colour is brown, somewhat like that of the thyroid itself, but rather more yellow. In structure, however, they differ from the thyroid proper, being composed not of hollow vesicles, but of solid masses of epithe- lium-like cells (which sometimes appear in sections as if arranged in anastomosing columns) with numerous convoluted blood-vessels between them (fig. 968). Con- nected with the cell-masses there are frequently lymph-follicles. They differ completely in structure from the normal thyroid and are not therefore to be con- founded with the accessory thyroids previously mentioned. These bodies were undoubtedly noticed by some of the older authors (Remak, Virchow, and others), but their importance was not recognised nor were they systematically treated of. Soon after the appearance of Sandstrom’s account, their structure was indepen- Fig. 968.—Section of pabathyroid, (Kohn.) ep, secreting epithelium ; pig., cells containing pigment; cap., sinus-like capillaries ; end., endothelium-cells. dently described by Baber (1881) ; of late years many observers have directed their attention to these bodies.* Kohn,^ who has made a careful investigation of their structure and their relations to the main part of the thyroid, states that in mammals one parathyroid (‘ outer epithelial body ’) is constantly met with on the outer surface of each lateral lobe of the thyroid and another (‘inner epithelial body’) on the inner surface of each lateral lobe (see fig. 967, p, p'). Associated in position with these bodies, at least in some animals, is a small mass of ‘ adenoid ’ tissue, which has a structure characteristic of thymus-tissue, including the well-known epithelial nests (con- centric corpuscles); this tends to blend insensibly with the neighbouring inter- stitial tissue of the thyroid (fig. 967, h). According to Prenant,^ the tissue of the parathyroids is similar in general structure and appearance to that of the carotid ^ Welsh, op. cit.; Schaper, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvi. 1895 ; Schreiber, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898 ; Kiirsteiner, Anat. Hefte, xi. 1899; Zuckerkandl, ibid. xix. 1902; Rulison, Anat. Record, iii. 1909; Berard and Alamartine, C. r. soc. biol. 1909. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xliv. 1895, and xlviii. 1897. •' La Cellule, x. 1894. VOL. II. PART I. X X