ENDING IN TENDON 191 In the former case the tendon becomes subdivided, either gradually or suddenly, into as many small bundles as there are fibres in the end of the muscle, and it often seems at first sight as if the tendon-fibres were directly continued into the muscular substance. In reality, however, the fibres of each tendon-bundle end abruptly on reaching the rounded or obliquely truncated extremity of a muscular fibre (fig. 290), and are so intimately united to the prolongation of sarcolemma which covers the extremity, as to render the separation between the two difficult if not impossible (Ranvier). The muscular substance, on the other hand, may readily be caused to retract from the sarcolemma at this point. The areolar tissue which lies between the tendon-bundles passes between the ends of the muscular fibres and is gradually lost in the interstitial connective tissue of the muscle. Fig. 290.—Termination of a mus- cular FIBRE IN TENDON. (Rauvier.) m, sarcolemma; s, the same mem- brane passing over the end of the fibre; extremity of muscular sub- stance ; c, retracted from the lower end of the sarcolemma-tube ; t, ten- don-bundle passing to be fixed to the sarcolemma. ally along the course of the tendon, into the substance or over the surface Fig. 291.—Capillary vessels OF muscle, moderately mag- nified. (Schafer.) When the direction of the muscular fibres is oblique to that of the tendon, the connexion takes place in a similar way to that above described, but the small tendon-bundles are given off later- which in these cases is generally prolonged of the muscle. When the muscular fibres divide, each branch of the fibre is directly continuous with a tendon-bundle, or connective-tissue bundle. Blood-vessels.—The blood-vessels of the muscular tissue are very abundant, so that, when they are successfully filled with coloured injection, the fleshy part of the muscle contrasts strongly with its tendons. The arteries, accompanied by their associate veins, enter the muscle at various points, and divide into branches : these pass along the fasciculi, crossing over them, and dividing more and more as they get between the finer divisions of the muscle ; at length, penetrating the smallest fasciculi, they end in capillary vessels, which run between the fibres. The vessels