3G3 DEVELOPMENT OF LYMPH-VESSELS According to this account lymph-vessels grow out from the lymph-sacs, which are themselves originally formed from venous plexuses ; they are in no way assisted in their formation by pre-existing peripheral tissue-clefts. This view is not shared by Huntingdon,* who believes that the venous lymphatic out- growths unite with lymphatic spaces independently developed in various parts of the mesenchyme in close proximity to embryonic veins. The balance of evidence appears, however, to favour the view that the lymphatic system is a series of vessels lined by endothelium which arise from separated portions of veins and eventually again open into the venous system.'^ The present tendency is to deny the incorporation of tissue-clefts into advancing lymph-vessels which have started at the lymph-sac, and the statements of Budge,^ Gulland'* and Sala,^ all of whom affirmed the development of lymphatics from tissue-clefts, have fallen into discredit. Sala states that the posterior pair of lymph-sacs of the Ear Fig. 553.—Growing extremities of the lymphatics of the skin between the ear AND EYE IN A PIG-EMBRYO 50 MM. LONG. Magnified. (Sabiii.) chick are derived from lateral branches of the first five coccygeal veins, and that later these become connected secondarily with lymph-vessels, formed by the union of spaces arising independently in the mesenchyme. The following additional points may be mentioned as illustrating the centrifugal growth of the lymphatics. Knower ® has shown that the subcutaneous lymph-sacs of the frog are derived from ramifications of simple tubular vessels of the lateral lymphatic trunks. Goldfinger found that the sacs of the posterior limbs have a similar origin. Rainer describes the lymphatics in the skin as developed in regular order, from within out—viz. first those of the subcutaneous tissue, then those of the cutis vera, and finally those of the papillary layer. In the lung, according to Flint,' the lymphatics are seen first at the hilum, whence they penetrate along the connective- tissue septa. Heuer ® describes the growth of the intestinal lymphatics as follows : The primary lymph-vessels enter with the mesenteric artery; they pierce the muscular coats and form a system of loops in the submucous coat; these loops, by sending out lateral branches, gradually give 1 Verhandl. d. anat. Gesellsch., Anat. Anz. 1910. See also Huntingdon and McClure, Anat. Record, i. 1907, and McClure, Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908. 2 Cf. F. R. Sabin, Anat. Record, ii. 1908, p. 51. 5 Budge, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtheil. 1880 and 1887. Gulland, Journ. of Pathol, and Bacteriol. ii. 1894. ® Sala, Abstract in Arch. ital. de Biol, xxxiv. 1900 Amer. Journ. Anat. vi. 1906. Anat. Record, ii. 1908. ® Op. cit.