STRUCTURE OF CELL 8 Differentiation of a certain sort begins to show itself very early in the development of the ovum ; so that different kinds of embryonic cells are distinguishable, even before the blastoderm is fully formed, and even, with some ova, during the first stages of segmentation. By the time the blastodermic layers are laid down, there is always a clear distinction in the character of the cells which compose them : the ectoderm and entoderm appearing as layers of connected cells which have already the appearance of epithelial tissue, although without the variation in the structure of the individual cells which in many epithelia shows itself later; while a large part of the mesoderm very soon becomes loosely arranged, and its cells begin to be separated by a relatively large amount of intercellular substance—appearances which are characteristic of developing connective tissue. Somewhat later also the ectoderm in and near the middle line of the embryo undergoes the thickening and folding which presages the formation from it of the central nervous system. Further, the part of the mesoderm which is nearest to this begins to show indications of the difierentiation which is preliminary to the development of the skeletal muscles ; whilst that part which is placed more peripherally exhibits the splitting into somatic and splanchnic layers which is the first sign of the formation of the coelomic cavity. Pari passu with these and other successive changes in the disposition of the cells of the several blastodermic layers, proceeds a gradual difierentiation produced by alterations in form and eventually in structure of the constituent cells—alterations which eventually lead to the formation of the various tissues. Since every tissue in the body is at first composed wholly of cells which individually show little or no special difierentiation of structure, it is clear that the undifierentiated cell is to be regarded as the type. The structure of cells in general and the various modifications which they exhibit must be studied before the structure of the tissues which have been formed from them can be considered. THE ANIMAE CELL. The actual discovery of the cellular constitution of animals dates fi’om the ‘ Microscopic Researches into the Accordance in the Structure and Growth of Plants and Animals,' by Theodor Schwann, published in 1839 ; the botanist Schleiden having in the previous year shown such constitution to obtain for all the different tissues of plants. The existence of cells had, indeed, been described in certain vegetable tissues, such as cork, as long ago as the seventeenth century,' and the presence of a nucleus had been noticed by Fontana in the latter end of the eighteenth century. But it was not until shortly prior to the work of Schleiden that the nucleus was recognised as an integral constituent of the plant-cell by R. Brown (1831); and the generalisations of Brown and Schleiden for the plant were extended and amplified in so able a manner by Schwann that the ideas which he enunciated still remain, under the name of the ‘ cell-theory,' the accepted doctrine regarding the structure of all the higher animal organisms. The term protoplasm was applied by Purkinje to the substance of animal cells in 1840, but first came into extensive use after its employment by v. Mohl, in 1846, who applied it to the living substance of the plant-cell. The material itself, with all its most prominent characteristics as displayed in Infusoria, was however described, in 1835, under the name of ‘ sarcode,' by Dujardin, the accuracy of whose description has, it will be seen, left but little for subsequent observers to add to : ‘ I propose to name sarcode that which other observers have termed a living jelly, a substance glutinous, diaphanous, homogeneous, refracting light a little more than water, but much less than oil, extensible and ropy like mucus, elastic and ^ N. Grew, Anatomy of Plants, 1G82.