STRUCTURE OF ERYTHROCYTES 371 Fig. 560.—Blood-crystals, magnified. 1, from human blood; 2, from the guinea-pig ; 3, squirrel; 4, hamster. form. Moving organisms in the blood [e.g. trypanosomes) may often be seen to indent the edges of the erythrocytes, doubling in the membrane, the shape being immediately recovered when the organism retreats. It has been urged against the existence of a membranous envelope to the corpuscles that such an envelope when mechanically ruptured, as by pressure upon the corpuscles, should show signs of the gap through which the contents have escaped. This is by no means necessary, however, for in the case of a soft protoplasmic envelope coated with a superficial film of lipoid substance such as that the existence of which is here assumed, the edges would immediately tend to come together again after rupture, and would then show no indication of the breach of continuity. A similar explanation may be given of the fact that a corpuscle may sometimes be cut into two, as when a needle is drawn sharply across a preparation of newt’s blood upon a glass slide, with- out the coloured contents escaping from the two separated parts; in this case the pressure of the needle- point has at the same time that it severed the corpuscle brought together the opposite edges of the cut envelope, and thus prevented the escape of the contents. The phenomena of a similar nature which are shown by soap-bubbles will be at once recalled in connexion with these characteristics of the envelope of the erythrocyte. Blood in which the haemoglobin has been dissolved out from the corpuscles has lost its opaque appearance, and has acquired a transparent laky tint; the change depends upon the fact that the colouring-matter, when dissolved in the serum and forming a homogeneous layer, interferes less with the transmission of light than when occurring in scattered particles. If the ery- throcytes are closely pressed together by very rapid centrifugalisation, the corpuscular mass may appear transparent and ‘ laky ’ even although the haemoglobin is still within the corpuscles.' Haemoglobin after being separated from the blood- corpuscles is prone to undergo crystallisation. The crystals present various forms in different animals, but almost all (the hexagonal plates of the squirrel being alone excepted) belong to the rhombic system. From human blood and that of most mammals, the crystals are elongated prisms (fig. 560, 1), but they are tetra- hedrons in the guinea-pig (2), and short rhombohedrons in the hamster (4). They are most readily obtained for microscopical examination from the blood of the rat, where they appear merely on adding a little water, and afterwards evaporating. The crystalline forms which may be obtained from various animals have been exhaustively studied, with the aid of photographs, by Reichert and Brown.- Other coloured crystals which may be obtained from blood are the ‘ Inemin crystals ’ of Teichmann and the ‘ hsematoidin ’ crystals of Virchow. The former are produced when haemo- globin is warmed with a little salt and glacial acetic acid. On cooling, the haemin crystallises out in minute reddish-brown acicular prisms (fig. 561), the demonstration of which affords a positive proof of the presence of blood-colouring matter. These crystals may readily be obtained from dried blood (which of course contains salt) merely by warming it with glacial acetic acid. Haematoidin crystals are found within the body in old extravasations of blood. They are dark brown rhomboidal crystals having the chemical characters of bilirubin. The amount of haemoglobin in each corpuscle, which is liable to variation, may be approxi- mately arrived at by determining both the number of corpuscles and the amount of haemoglobin * See on the laking of blood, G. N. Stewart, Journ. Physiol, xxiv. 189'J. ^ E. T. Reichert and Amos T. Brown, The Crystallography of Hoeinoglobins, Philadelphia, 1909. B B 2 Fig. 561.—Htemin crystals, magnified. (From Preyer.)