PEKFORA'riNG FIJ^ES 151 ill a perpendicular or oblique direction, and seem to bolt them together. These perforating fibres may be seen, with the aid of the micrcscope, in a thin transverse slice of a decalcified cylindrical or cranial bone, on pulling asunder the sections of the lamelhn (as in fig. 238). In this way some lamellae will generally be observed with fibrous processes attached to them (fig. 238, b) of various lengths, and usually tapering and pointed at their free extremities, but sometimes truncated—probably from having been divided by the knife. These fibres have obviously been drawn out from the adjacent lamellae, through several of which they must have penetrated. Sometimes, indeed, indications of perforations may be recognised in the part of the section of bone from which the fibres have been pulled out (fig. 238, c). The processes in question are thus, so to speak, viewed in profile ; but they may frequently also be seen on the flat surface of detached lamellae (fig. 237), project- ing like nails driven per- pendicularly or obliquely.^ The perforating fibres are, like the decussating fibres, bundles of fibrils which agree in character with those of the white fibrous tissue; but some perforating fibres, as shown by H. Muller, are of the nature of elastic tissue (fig. 239, e). These always remain uncalcified; sometimes the white fibrous bundles escape calcification. The result is that, as they shrink in drying, they leave tubes or channels in the dry bone, generally leading from the surface inwardly; but these uncalcified bundles are by no means frequent (Sharpey). The perforating fibres are usually connected with the periosteum, as is the case with most of those which penetrate the external table of the cranial bones; but in cross-sections of cylindrical bones they often appear to spring with their broad ends from the deeper lamellae (with the fibres of which they may be directly continuous), and especially from those near the circumference of a . Haversian S3’stem, and taper outwards into fine points, which do not reach the periosteum (fig. 239),- although without doubt they must, like the bony layers in which they occur, have been formed by subperiosteal ossification. They are never found in the concentric systems of Haversian lamellae. Where tendons or ligaments are inserted into bone, the fibre-bundles of the tendon are continued into the bone as perforating fibres, so that the attachment of tendon to bone is thus rendered very intimate. Some of the bundles of white fibres of the periosteum ma}^ also, as above mentioned, be traced into the bone as perforating fibres, and the same is the case with the elastic fibres. When tendons become ossified, as is often the case, especially in birds, a calcification of the ^ On the history of the discovery of the perforating fibres, see Sharpey, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xviii. 1877, p. 142. - Schiifer, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xviii. 1877 Pig. 239.—Transvteese section of decalcified human tibia, FROM NEAR THE SURFACE OF THE SHAFT. (Sclltifer.) H, H, Haversian canals, with their systems of concentric lamellae; in all the rest of the figure the lamellae are circum- ferential. S, S, ordinary perforating fibres of Sharpey ; e, e, elastic per- forating fibres. Drawn under a power of about 150 diameters.