693 PITUITARY BODY which merges into the pars nervosa. In some animals, especially those in which the cavity of the infiindibiilum is prolonged as a canal into the pars nervosa, the pars intermedia extends around this canal so as almost to reach the base of the third ventricle. Occasionally, where the hyaline matter has accumulated between the cells of the pars intermedia, these seem as if set around it, and simulate the appearance of epithelial vesicles ; but true closed vesicles like those of the thyroid are not present. According to Neubert,^ the cells of the pars intermedia contain glycogen, which is also present in the hyaline substance. After injury of the pituitary the cells of the pars intermedia tend to invade the pars nervosa: ^ this is probably merely an exaggeration of the process of cell-migration which occurs normally. Pars nervosa.—The pars nervosa is formed almost entirely of neuroglia : it contains no nerve-cells and but a few nerve-fibres; these pass through it infimdibulum intraglandular cleft Fig. 999.—Section of part of the posterior lobe of the pituitary of a dog, showing MASSES OF COLLOID MATTER PASSING TOWARDS AND INTO THE CAVITY OF THE INFUNDIBULUM. Photographed from a preparation by Herring. Magnified 160 diameters. The animal had undergone thyroidectomy nineteen days before being killed for examina- tion of the pituitary, and the hyaline secretion is present in unusual amount. Some of this appears to be present in nucleated cells, but for the most part it forms irregular clumjis which appear to be streaming from the pars intermedia (below in the figure) to the cavity of the infundibulum (above). towards the epithelial part of the gland, in which they terminate.^ The pars nervosa contains many neuroglia-cells and a great number of fibres (fig. 1000) prolonged from the ependyma-cells which line the infundibulum and its prolongation, when this is present. Both the neuroglia-cells and the ependyma- cells of man contain pigment; this appears to be of a lipoid nature.'* Globules of hyaline matter are also observed in the pars nervosa, lying in spaces within its tissue, most numerously near the pars intermedia, but extending all through its substance as far as the infundibular cavity and its prolongation (fig. 1000, 6, d, e). Here they are seen to be discharged into this cavity and to mingle with the ventricular fluid within it. That the hyaline substance is produced ’ Ziegler’s Beitr. xlv. 1909. ^ Cushing and Goetsch, Amer. Journ. Physiol, xxvii. 1910. ^ Savagnone (Riv. ital. d. neuropat. ii. 1909) finds numerous nerves proceeding to the gland from a group of nerve-cells, situated just behind the optic chiasma. He states that they pass to both anterior and posterior lobes. i Kolm, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxv. 1910.