BONE 156 circumference. The ossification continues thus to spread and consolidate until the parietal meets the neighbouring bones, with which it is at length united by sutures. Fig. 241 represents the parietal bone of an embryo sheep about two inches and a half long, and shows the character of the ossification as it appears when the object is magnified about twelve diameters. When further examined with a higher magni- fying power, the tissue or membrane in which the ossification is proceeding appears to be made up of fibres and corpuscles, with a ground-substance between, and may be looked upon as connective tissue in a certain stage of development. The corpuscles are large and angular, and they are densely packed all over the area of ossification, covering the bony spicula, and filling up their interstices. On observing more closely the points of the growing osseous rays at the circum- ference of the bone, where they shoot out into the soft tissue, it will be seen that the portion of them already calcified is granular and rather dark in appearance (fig. 242), but that this character is gradually lost as they are traced farther outwards in the membrane, in which they are pro- longed for a little way in form of soft and pliant bundles of trans- parent fibres (fig. 243, of). These were termed by Sharpey osteogenic fibres, the soft trans- parent matter of which they are Fig. 242.—Pakt op the developing PAKIETAL BONE OF A FCETAL CAT (1^ INCH long). (Scliiifer.) The figure represents a piece of the growing edge slightly magnified, showing the bony spicules terminated by bunches of osteogenic fibres; a, an isolated bony spicule united to the main part of the ossification by a bundle of osteogenic fibres. Fig. 243.^—The pakt marked h of Fig. 242, HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (Schiifer.) sp, bony spicules, with some of the osteoblasts imbedded in them, producing the lacunae ; ost, osteoblasts partly imbedded in the newly formed bone; of, osteogenic fibres prolonging the spicules, with osteoblasts between them and applied to them ; a, granules of calcareous deposit between the osteogenic fibres; at h the granules have become blended, and the matrix is clearer; at c a continuity is established between the two adjacent spicules. composed being designated osteogenic substance, or simply osteogen. It appears, however, to be identical with the collagen of which white connective-tissue fibres are formed, and the so-called osteogenic fibres are in fact small bundles of collagenous fibres, and are continuous with similar bundles in the surrounding connective tissue (fig. 244). But although similar in chemical composition, they are somewhat difierent from these in appearance, having a stiller aspect and straighter course. The fibre-bundles become calcified by the deposition within them of earthy salts in the form of minute globules, which produce a darkish ^ These two figures, as well as figs. 248, 263, and 254, are from the author’s paper on the structure and development of bone, in the Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xviii. 1877. They were drawn by Mr. J. Lawrence.