415 SEROUS MEMBRANES SEROUS MEMBRANES. The serous membranes are so named from the apparent nature of the fluid with which their surface is moistened. They line cavities of the body which have no obvious outlet. The chief examples are, the 'peritoneum, the largest of all, lining the cavity of the abdomen ; the two pleurce and the pericardium in the chest; and the tunica vaginalis surrounding each of the testicles within the scrotum. Form and arrang-ement.—In all cases a serous membrane has the form of a closed sac, one part of which is applied to the walls of the cavity which it lines, the parietal portion ; whilst the other is reflected over the surface of the organ or organs contained in the cavity, and is therefore named the reflected or visceral portion of the membrane. Hence the viscera in such cavities are not contained within the sac of the serous membrane, but are really placed external to it; seeming to Fig. 616.—Pavement-epithelium (endothelium) from the omentum of the rabbit. Nitrate of silver staining. (Schafer.) push inwards the part of the membrane which immediately covers them, some organs receiving in this way a complete, and others only a partial investment. In passing from one part to another the membrane frequently forms folds, as, for example, the folds (or ‘ ligaments ’) of peritoneum passing between the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. Such folds are sometimes designated by special names, e.g. the mesentery, the mesocolon, and the omentum. The peritoneum in the female sex is an exception to the rule that serous membranes are perfectly closed sacs, inasmuch as it has two openings by which the Fallopian tubes communicate with its cavity. A serous membrane sometimes lines a fibrous membrane, as in the case of the parietal pericardium. Such a combination has been named a fihro-serous membrane. The inner surface of a serous membrane is free, smooth, and polished ; and, as would occur with an empty bladder, the inner surface of one part of the sac is applied to the corresponding surface of some other part; a small quantity of fluid, usually just sufficient to moisten the contiguous surfaces, being interposed.