377 DEVELOPMENT OF ERYTHROCYTES IN THE EMBRYO are lai formed originally of groups of mesenchyme-cells which are not at any time fused together into a syncytium. The central cells of the groups become primitive blood-cells; these multiply and give rise to erythroblasts (and to lymphoblasts, according to Maximow) ; the peripheral cells differentiate into endotheUum. Some of the groups of erythroblasts which appear as blood-islands may not at first be enclosed by endothelium, but are said by Maximow to lie free in the mesoderm (fig. 570). Primitive erythroblasts of megaloblastic type were noticed by Goodall ‘ in the sheep-embryo, and found by him everywhere in the embryonic tissues, where they freely proliferate. He derives them as well as the primitive lymphocytes (which, as he believes, ultimately give origin to all varieties of leucocytes) from mesenchyme-cells. The primitive erythroblasts have in the rabbit, according to Maximow,^ no genetic relation with the definitive erythroblasts and erythrocytes, which are produced in the following manner (fig. 568) : i The definitive erythroblasts are developed from primitive lymphocytes or lymphoblasts which enlarge to form amoeboid basophil lymphocytes; these divide two or three times. The resulting corpuscles when seen within the vessels of the vascular area are usually in groups of sister-cells (a), all very much alike, of spherical form, about 8-9 fx in diameter, without pseudopodia and with relatively large nuclei and little protoplasm, which is not now markedly basophil. The protoplasm becomes increased in amount and coloured by haemoglobin, but not intensely—it is polychromatic ; the nucleus has more chromatin than that of the primitive erythroblasts. In this condition the cells again multiply by mitosis. They resemble, in the appearance of their nuclei, in the polychromatism of their protoplasm, and in their relatively small amount of haemoglobin, those cells of the bone-marrow which have been termed megalohlasis, although they are not necessarily of large size. By division they give rise to normoblasts {b)—cells which are somewhat less in size (7*5 /jl), contain much more haemoglobin and smaller, highly chromatic reticular nuclei, without nucleoH; these cells also exhibit typical mitoses {k). The cells produced by their division, of which the nuclei become much smaller and the protoplasm almost wholly converted into a solution of haemoglobin, are the ‘primitive erythroblasts (c). To produce the erythrocytes the erythroblasts lose their nuclei, which become atrophied and eventually extruded (fig. 569, a), whilst the coloured cytoplasm remains and becomes moulded to form the biconcave blood- disc. According to some authors ^ the nuclei are not extruded, but atrophy within the cell. The first embryonic blood-discs are rather larger than those of the adult and less regularly biconcave (fig. 568, d). The vessels within the embryo are formed independently of those of the yolk-sac, and are not merely, as was at one time supposed, an ingrowth from the vascular area. Within the embryo primitive haemo- blasts also develop, according to Maximow, from mesenchyme-cells, both inside and outside developing blood-vessels. From them are developed, as in the vascular area, lymphoblasts and erythroblasts, and from the latter erythrocytes. In the guinea-pig the distinction which in the rabbit is found between primitive and definitive erythroblasts does not seem to obtain,^ neither was it found by Dantschakoff in the chick. ^ Some of the lymphocytes are stated by Maximow to become altered in structure and converted into polymorphs and myelocytes, but this is contested by other authorities, who hold that the granular blood-cells are developed from special mesenchyme-elements (myeloblasts), which later become restricted chiefly to bone-marrow.® Regarding the early appearance of leucocytes. Fig. 569. — Development of BLOOD-COKPUSCLES IN RABBIT. (Maximow.) a, an erythroblast, with the shrunken nucleus becoming ex- truded ; 6, an enlarged erythro- blast, the nucleus of which is undergoing division into four; c, endothelial cells showing ex- crescences of protoplasm coloured by haemoglobin. ^ Journ. of Path, and Bact. xii. 1908. ^ Op. cit. ^ Niigeli, Verhandl. d. Kongr. f. inn. Med. 1906; Scott, Journ. Path, and Bact. 1906; Schridde, Ziegler’s Beitr. xli. ‘ Maximow, cit. ■’ Anat. Hefte, xxxvii. 1908-9. ® Cf. Engel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. liii. and liv. 1899 ; Gulland, Folia hoematologia, iii. 1906; Niigeli, Verhandl. d. Kongr. f. inn. Med. 1906; Pappenheim, Folia haemat. Bde. iii. iv. v. 1906-8; Schridde, Ziegler’s Beitr. xli. 1907. See also p. 391.