586 LUNCI8 tissue iu variable amount, more between the larger and less between the smaller groups. From the mutual compression to which they are subjected the lobules and alveoli are bounded by flattened sides, and they are compactly fitted both to one another and between the larger air-tubes and vessels of the lungs.' Blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of the lung's. Pulmonary vessels.—The branches of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchial tubes, but in their remote ramifications they subdivide further, a branch passing to each atrium, and being distributed to the capillary network of all the infundibula which open out of it (fig. 844, P). The venules commence on the outer border of the air-sacs, and course independently of the arterioles. The main arterial Fig. 854.—Fbom a section of lung of pig-embbyo, 13 cm. long, shomtng the glandulab CHABACTEB OF THE DEVELOPING ALVEOLI. (J. M. Flint.) Magnified 70 diameters. a, interstitial connective tissue; 6, a bronchial tube; c, an alveolus; Z, Ijnnpliatic clefts ■p, pleura. trunk runs immediately behind the main bronchial trunk, giving ofi corre- sponding branches as it proceeds. The arteries ramify without anastomoses, and the arterioles which pass to the atria send small branches, about 0*025 mm. (yuVo bicli) in diameter, between the air-cells, partially encircling their mouths (fig. 855). From these vessels the capillary network arises, and covers each alveolus, passing in the interalveolar septa between the adjacent air-cells. As was pointed out by Rainey, the capillary network in these partitions is single in the lungs of man and mammalia, the capillaries winding through the septa from one alveolus to the other, although in the lungs of amphibia and reptiles the capillary network of each alveolus is distinct. ^ Some authors liave described iutercommunicating foramina between adjacent lobules or infundi- bula, but such intercommunication is denied by most authorities. For a discussion of the subject see F. Merkel, article ‘ Athmungsorgano ’ in von Bardeleben’s Handbuch der Anatomie, 1902, pp. 108-110.