242 JII8T0aF:NESIS OF nervp:s HISTOGENESIS OF NERVES. The embryonic development of the nerves has already been noticed (p. 203). It was there shown that all nerve-fibres and nerve-cells, whether belonging to the Fig. 379.—From a section of a sympathetic ganglion op dog. (Schafer.) Magnified 225 diameters. The cells are smaller than those of the spinal ganglion, and the nerve-fibres are much smaller and more interwoven. Fig. 380.—Neuroblasts from spinal cord of a CHICK during the THIRD DAY OF INCUBATION. (Cajal.) A, three neuroblasts stained by Cajal’s method to show neuro-fibrils; B, a neuroblast stained by Golgi metliod ; c, incremental cone. central nervous system or to the peri- pheral and sympathetic nerves, are originally neuroblasts derived from the neuro-sensory ectoderm, and that in the case of the afferent nerve-fibres, such as those of the dorsal or posterior- roots, the axis-cylinders grow from the neuroblasts of the neural crest (F. M. Balfour), which become separated ofi to form the spinal ganglia.^ From these afferent or sensory neuroblasts growth takes place both centripetally into the nerve-centre and centrifugally towards the peripheral sensory parts ; while in the case of the efferent nerve- fibres, those namely of the ventral or anterior roots, the axis-cylinders grow only centrifugall}’- from their cells of origin, which here lie within the nerve- centre (neuroblasts of the nerve- centres), and thence eventually pass to and unite with the muscular fibres. It is a characteristic of all gi-owing axons that their gTOwing extremity is a protoplasmic expansion (fig. 380): this is known as the incremental cone (Cajal). A similar expansion is seen in regenerating nerves. ’ R. G. Harrison (Amer. Jouru. Anat. v. 1900) has shown that after removal of the neural crest in tadpoles the dorsal roots and ganglia fail to develop. The sympathetic ganglia are formed from olf- shoots of tlie rudimentary spinal ganglia. Schenck and Berdsall, Mitth. a. d. embryol. Tnstit. in M ien, 1879 ; Onudi, Arch f. mikr. Anat. xxvi. 1886 ; W. His (junior), Siichs. Abhandl. 1891 ; Arch. f. Anat. 1897 ; S. Jean Meiklejohn, Jour)i. Physiol, xxxvi. 1908 ; Williamina Abel, Proc. Roy. Soc. Ed. xxx. 1910.