548 SMALL INTESTINE membrane of the mouth and elsewliere, eacli consisting of a number of tubular alveoli, connected by the terminal ramifications of the duct ; the latter penetrates the muscularis mucosae, and opens upon the inner surface of the intestine, the opening being situated either between the crypts of Lieberkiihn or more rarely at the base of a crypt (Schaffer). In sections through the pylorus the glands of Brunner appear like continuations of the pyloric glands of the stomach (fig. 798), but they are more complicated in structure and more deeply seated ; moreover, their cells, which contain fine granules, do not yield the same ferments.’ These glands are better developed in herbivora than in carnivora. In the latter they are found only close to the pylorus, in the former for a long distance down the gut.^ Iiymphatic follicles of the small intestine.—The solitary g'lands are soft, white, rounded, and slightly prominent bodies 0*6 mm. to 3 mm. in diameter, which are found thinly scattered over the mucous membrane in all parts of the small intestine. They are found at the mesen- teric as well as at the free border, both between and upon the valvulse conni- ventes, and are rather more numerous in the lower por- tion of the bowel. These so-called “ glands are in structure similar to the lymph-follicles of various re- gions already described, con- sisting of clumps of dense reticular tissue, the meshes of which are closely packed with lymph-corpuscles and pervaded by fine capillaries. They are here and there united at the sides with the surrounding lymphatic tissue, but are at most points dis- tinctly marked off from it, partly owing to the fact that their supporting reticular tissue becomes closer and finer, partly owing to their being surrounded by a rich plexus of Ijmiphatic vessels ; they may even hang, as it were, into a lymph (or lacteal) sinus which entirely surrounds the follicle, except next to the surface of the intestine. The epithelium over the follicle has often a very large number of lymph-corpuscles between the epithelial cells. The base of the follicle is situated in the submucous tissue ; but the follicle extends upwards, through the muscularis mucosce, into the mucous membrane, causing a bulging of the surface towards the interior of the gut (as in fig. 799). The prominent part of the follicle sometimes has villi upon it; placed around very irregularly are seen the mouths of the crypts of Lieberkiilm.^ ^ Bogomoletz (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixi. 1903) found the granules in the secreting cells increased as the result of protein diet. According to Oppel (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxvi. 1910) some of the cells of Brunner’s glands in man contain granules similar to the cells of Paneth of Lieberkiihn’s crypts. See also M. Kaufmann-Wolf, Anat. Anz. xxxix. 1911. ' Scheunert and Grimmer, Int. Monthly Journ. of Anat. and Physiol. 1900. ■' On the development of the solitary glands see Stdhr, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. li. 1898. Fig. 799.—Section of a solitaby gland op the small INTESTINE. (Cadiat.) c, c, villi, partially deprived of their epithelium; crypts of Lieberkiihn ; a, solitary gland composed of retiforra lymphoid tissue, w^hich has become partly broken away in preparing the section; 6, epithelium covering the apex or cupola of the follicle ; c, muscularis mucosae; /, submucous coat.