524 (ESOPHAGUS The mucous membrane is of firm texture, and is paler in colour than that of the pharynx or stomach. From its loose connexions its outer surface is freely movable on the muscular tunic ; and under ordinary circumstances the mucous lining is thrown into longitudinal folds or rug£e, which are in mutual contact. These folds disappear on distension of the canal. Microscopic papillae (/) are seen upon the corium ; they project into and are covered by the stratified scaly epithelium. In the embryo for a certain period the oesophagus is lined by columnar ciliated epithelium (Neumann), patches of which may persist even to the time of birth (Klein). The small compound racemose or tubulo-racemose glands, named oesophageal glands, which are for the most part seated in the submucous tissue, are specially numerous at the lower end of the tube. A few of the smallest are situated in the Fig. 759. — Section of the human (ESOPHAGUS. (Prom a drawing by V. Horsley.) Moderately magnified. The section is transverse, and from near the middle of the gullet, a, fibrous covering; h, divided fibres of the longi- tudinal muscular coat; c, transverse muscular fibres ; d, submucous or areolar layer ; e, muscularis mucosae ; /, mucous membrane, with vessels and part of a lymphoid nodule ; g, laminated epithelial lining ; 7t, mucous gland ; i, gland duct; m', striated muscular fibres cut across. substance of the mucous membrane. The cells of these glands are columnar. Their ducts are usually surrounded by collections of lymphoid tissue as they pass through the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane is bounded next to the submucous coat by longitudinally disposed plain muscular fibres, which, imper- fect above, form a continuous layer towards the lower end of the tube {muscularis mucoscB, e). Fig. 760.—Ending of nebve-fibbies in stbati- FIED epithelium OF (ESOPHAGUS OF BABBIT. (G. Retzius.) epithelium ; c, corium; a nerve-fibre passing from the corium to the epidermis and there ending in an arborisation of varicose fibrils. Vessels and nerves.—The hlood-vessels have for the most part a longi- tudinal arrangement. There are separate networks for the mucous membrane, muscularis mucosas and muscular coat, and the glands and fat lobules which are met with in the submucosa have each their capillary plexus. Lymphatics are found in both the submucous and mucous coats, those of the latter commenc- ing as in the mouth and pharynx within the papillae. A small amount of lymphoid tissue is also present, and may be accumulated into lymphoid nodules, especially in the neighbourhood of the ducts of the mucous glands.^ Both here and in the ^ M. Flesch, Anat. Anz. iii. 1888; Dobrowolsld, Ziegler’s Beitr. xvi. 1894.