356 LYMPH-VESSELS LYMPH-VESSELS OR LYMPHATICS. A system of lymph-vessels is superadded to the sanguiferous in all classes of vertebrate animals, but this is not the case in the invertebrata ; in many of these the blood-vessels convey a colourless or nearly colourless fluid, but no additional class of vessels is provided for conveying lymph or chyle. Distribution.—Lymph-vessels are found in all the organs which receive blood, with the exception of the central nervous system, the globe of the eye and the internal ear. They are always conveyed in the connective tissue of the part. The larger lymphatic trunks usually accompany the deeply seated blood-vessels ; they convey the lymph from the plexuses of origin towards the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct. The lymph-vessels of a part anastomose or intercom- municate with each other much more frequently than do the veins alongside of which thev run. k) It not infrequently happens that a lymph-vessel, or a close interlacement of lymph-vessels, may ensheath an artery or vein either partially or wholly. In this case the lymphatic is termed ‘ perivascular.’ In flat, membranous or expanded parts, the lymph-vessels usually form a network, which is situated either in a single plane, as in many parts of the serous membranes, or in two or more parallel planes united by intervening vessels, as in the skin and some mucous membranes. In the latter case the strata are generally composed of finer vessels and form a closer network the nearer they are to the surface of the membrane in which they are distributed, but even the most superficial and finest network is composed of vessels which are larger than the blood-capillaries. In most parts of the body lymph-vessels are so delicate that they require a special method—namely, impregnation with silver nitrate according to the plan of V. Recklinghausen—for their demonstration. If we take a thin connective-tissue membrane, cover it with a solution of silver nitrate and, after rinsing with distilled water, expose it to the light, we find, after the tissue has become brown, a number of white areas, either quite separate or joined together (fig. 547, c). These white patches v. Recklinghausen took to be intercommunicating spaces; but we now know that each stellate area represents a connective-tissue cell, which remains white either because it does not contain chlorides for the silver salt to react with, or because the silver nitrate does not penetrate into the cells. And if we stain a silver-nitrate preparation of areolar tissue with any basic dye, such as toluidin-blue, each of the spaces is seen to contain a large nucleus. In fig. 547, in addition to the stellate cells (c), separated by a large quantity of deeply stained apparently homogeneous intercellular substance, are seen more regular cells {d) only separated by thin sinuous lines. These connective-tissue cells placed close together represent the endothelium of lymphatics, and here, again, each cell in the wall of a lymphatic may be shown to possess its own nucleus. Looking at v. Recklinghausen’s figure one may readily see how he fell into the error of supposing lymphatic vessels to take their origin in tissue clefts (see p. 102). As far as we know to-day, the view of Langer and of Ranvier—namely, that lymph-vessels are formed as a closed system which ultimately opens only by the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct into the venous circulation—is the correct one.* In most parts the actual origin of the lymphatics is in the form of a network or plexus of vessels of irregular size which here and there show blind root-like diverticula extending into the accompanying connective tissue ; and we find analogous outgrowths in the lymphatics of the intestinal villi, which, although they form networks in the larger and broader villi, usually consist of a ‘ See pp. 3G1-3G4.