408 HTI^MAL GLANDS tissue bounding the blood-sinuses; and phagocytosis of erythrocytes, with breaking down of their hocmoglobin into pigment, is a common phenomenon in these glands. The phagocytes are mostly large uninucleated cells (macrocytes) ; but the endothelial cells of the sinus and reticular tissue appear also to be phago- cytic. Polymorphous leucocytes, rare in ordinary lymph-glands, are common in these; oxyphils also occur numerously, and basiphils are found occasionally; all of these being perhaps brought to the gland by the blood. Giant-cells with large lobed nuclei similar to the megakaryocytes of bone-marrow are also found in some of these glands. The blood-sinuses appear to be in communication on the one hand with the arterial capillaries and on the other with the veins of the gland, the arrangement in the hsemal glands and in the haemal part of the haemal lymph-glands being somewhat similar to that which obtains in the spleen. Indeed, these organs, the microscopic struc- ture of which has been elucidated only within recent years, were probably often considered to be small accessory spleens. The lymphatic part of the haemal lymph- gland is precisely like that of the ordinary lymph-gland. According to some authors communications may be found between the blood- and lymph-sinuses in the mixed glands. Some of the haemal lymph-glands are said to resemble red marrow in struc- ture. These have been termed by Warthin ‘ marrow lymph-glands ’; they are charac- terised by smaller blood-sinuses, numerous basiphil cells and occasional giant-cells. Haemal lymph-glands are found in man in the abdomen (behind the peritoneal cavity), in the neck, and in the thorax. They vary considerably in size, some being only just visible in a dissected part, others as large as a broad-bean. They are still more numerous in the sheep, and in the rat (Lewis), but less easily found in the dog and cat. Haemal lymph-glands occur in birds (Vincent and Harrison), although these animals possess few lymph-glands of the ordinary type. Development of lymph-g-lands.—The first appearance of these'organs is seen (m the human foetus of 1|- inch) in the form of a plexus of lymph-vessels amongst which masses of lymphoid tissue accumulate and eventually form intercommunicating columns (see figs. 601, 602, 603, from the pig). Blood-vessels penetrate into these columns,' and the whole becomes Gulland (Journ. Path, and Bact. ii. 1894; cf. also Saxev, Anat Hefte, vi. 189C, and Ketterer, Joum. de 1 anat. 1901) the blood-vessels are developed first and the lymph-cells are brouo-ht by these and form lymphoid tissue in the meshes of the vascular plexus, which is at first surrounded^v a smus-hke lymph-space; the lymph-paths within the gland are formed at a subsequent stage. Dd2 Fig. 601.—Developing lymph-gland from A TRANSVERSE SECTION OF THE NECK OF A PIG-EMBRYO 49 MM. LONG. (Sabin.) Magnified 44 diameters. The top of the figure is in the position of the future hilum of the gland. /.7i, lymph-heart; l.d, afferent lymph-duct; V, vein.