4^ OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE 168 aspect, staining with carmine. This secondary deposit begins to cover the granular bone a very short distance below the surface of ossification (see fig. 252), and, as already stated, increases in thickness ftwther down. Close to the limit of advancing ossification, the blood-vessels terminate in capillary loops (see figs. 248, 252), which are often somewhat dilated. It was supposed by Ranvier that these vascular loops by their growth directly produce absorption of the cartilage, but it is more probable that this is caused by the agency of some of the cells which accompany the blood-vessels. The absorption of the walls of the primary areolae (calcified cartilage-matrix) seems, in fact, to be effected ( _ by certain large multinucleated cells (fig. 252, /, /) which from their function are termed osteoclasts, * and which are found wherever bone is being eaten away : we shall return to them later. The secondary ILM ®'j» *• * ; • wm si*" ' ' / v-H tat I • . * >• Ip;5- 1 ■; • ' • ’ I if CitjA V’ . ' ♦ •>' , \ y ■ • te;.:’-- !| ■ •• ‘i-‘ j.y* : Fig. 249.—Longitudinal section through part of a PHALANX OF A SIX MONTHS’ HUMAN EMBRYO. (Kijlliker.) The calcified cartilage is completely absorbed almost to the limit of advancing ossification. The darker substance on either side is the periosteal bone. The embryonic marrow has shrunk somewhat away from it. ' • V; i!.'.v;S-VV.' t;■ Fig. 250.—Transverse section of OSSIFYING CARTILAGE, INCLUDING A PORTION OF THE ADVANCING CAL- CIFICATION. From the humerus OF A FCETAL SHEEP. (Sharpey.j Magnified 70 diameters. c, cartilage, the cells of which are enlarged, but the matrix not yet cal- cified ; b, primary osseous deposit in the cartilage-matrix, extending be- tween the cartilage-cells and enclos- ing them in primary areolae. bone which thickens the walls of the marrow-spaces is no doubt formed by osteoblasts. With regard to the destination of the cartilage-cells, two opposite views have been taken by histologists. According to one, which was that adopted by H. Muller, the capsules arc opened by ab.sorption, and the cells are converted, after undergoing division, into osteoblasts. According to the other, the cartilage-cells themselves become removed by absorption, and take no part, directly or indirectly, in the production of the secondary bone. The latter view of the matter was taken by Loven, and it was also regarded by Sharpey as in all probability the more correct; it is now most generally adopted. For the line of demarcation between the cartilage-cells and the osteoblastic tissue is exceedingly abrupt (fig. 248), and the latter often, if not alw'ays, termi- nates either by a dilated vascular loop, or it may be by a developing capillary filled with blood- ^ Osfoclasts, Kblliker. M 2