COKPUS SPONGIOSUM ()38 localised tliickenings; at tlie place of thickening the elastic layer may be split up into several strata (fig. 922). At certain places, especially where branches are given off, these thickenings are so marked as to be able, when the muscular coat contracts, to close the lumen and thus act as valves. In the veins leading from the cavernous tissue the circular muscular fibres are rela- tively little developed, but the intima contains a large number of longitudinal mus- cular fibres, which form pad-like prominences projecting into the lumen (fig. 923).' The corpus spongriosum commences below the triangular ligament of the perineum, where it is placed between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, and somewhat behind their point of junction. The enlarged and rounded posterior extremity is named the bulb, and projects backwards somewhat Fig. 923.—Teansverse section of branches of the vena profunda penis of an adult. (Eberth.) Magnified 100 diameters. «, pads of intima; h, endothelium ; c, circular muscle-fibres ; cZ, nerves ; e, small arteiy. beyond the urethra (fig. 929, b). It extends forwards as a cylindrical or slightly tapering body, lodged in the groove on the under side of the united cavernous bodies, as far as their blunt conical anterior extremity, over which it expands so as to form the glans penis. In the whole of this extent it encloses the urethra. The posterior bulbous part [bulb of the urethra), varies in size in different subjects. It receives an investment from the triangular ligament on which it rests, and is embraced by the ejaculator urinae, or bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The posterior extremity of the bulb exhibits, more or less distinctly, a subdivision into two lateral portions or lobes, separated by a slight furrow on the lower surface, and by a slender fibrous partition within, which extends for a short distance forwards ; in early infancy this is more marked. It is above this part that the urethra, having pierced According to Golowinski these pad-like projections occur also in the arteries and veins of the corresponding organs of the female (Anat. Hefte, xxx. 190G).