THE SKIN 44G In those parts of the skin where the papillae are arranged in rows, the epidermal layer is thickened over the rows, the thickening appearing as ridges of the surface, upon which at regular intervals are seen small notches where the sweat-ducts open (fig. 651). The Malpighian layer participates in this thickening, and opposite the surface ridges dips deeper into the corium (fig. 652).’ The more firm and transparent superficial part or horny layer {stratum corneum) of the epidermis may be separated after maceration from the deeper, softer, more opaque and recently formed part, which constitutes the Malpighian layer {stratum germinativum) or rete mucosum. The under or attached surface of the cuticle is moulded on the adjoining surface of the corium, and, when separated by maceration or putrefaction, presents impres- sions corresponding exactly with the papillary or other eminences, and the furrows or depressions of the true skin ; the more prominent inequalities of the latter are marked also on the outer surface of the cuticle, but less accurately. Fine tubular Fig. G53.—Section of human epidermis with two vascular papill.e of the corium. (Heitzmann.) Maguified 200 diameters. loop of capillary vessels in jiapilla; r.m., rete mucosum; s.ff , stratum granulosum ; c, stratum corneum; d, d', duct of sweat-gland passing through the epidermis. prolongations of the cuticle are continued into the ducts of the sweat-glands, and are often partially drawn out from their recesses when the cuticle is detached, appearing then like threads proceeding from its under surface. Structure.—The cuticle is made up of cells packed together in many irregular layers (figs. 653, 654). The deepest cells are elongated, and placed perpendicularly on the surface of the corium ; they are denticulate at their lower ends, and fit into corresponding fine denticulations of the corium. The perpendicular cells generally form one stratum ; above them are strata of cells of a more rounded or polyhedral shape. The cells have fine intercellular clefts or channels between them, bridged across by fibrils which pass from cell to cell (fig. 655), as in all stratified epithelia. The bridging fibrils run through the cell- bodies, in which they intercross, forming a kind of regular felt-work (fig. 656). The parts of the fibrils which bridge across the intercellular spaces exhibit nodular enlargements resembling the ‘ equatorial plates" of dividing cells (see p. 46).- These so-called ‘ spinous cells " form several strata ; above, they become gradually See Blaschko, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxx. 1887; M. Heiclenhaiu, Auat. Hefte, xxx. IDOO. “ According to Rosenstadt (Arch. f. mikr, Anat. Ixxv. 15)10) the nodules are in reality crossing fibrils seen in optical section.