H7i<:mal glands 402 already been mentioned.^ As the newly formed corpuscles accumulate in the middle of the lymphoid tissue, they tend to push out into the lymph-sinus the lymphocytes which are already formed. These pass into the lymph-sinus, so that fresh corpuscles are thus added to the lymph as it traverses the gland. As a consequence, it is foimd that the corpuscles are much more abundant in the lymph or chyle after it has passed through a lymph-gland. H^MAL. LYMPH-GLANDS AND H^MAL GLANDS.^ Both in man and other mammals glands are constantly found which have the general appearance of lymph-glands except that they are of a red colour and that on section the sinuses—or parts of them—are found to be occupied by blood instead of lymph (see accompanying Plate). When parts of the sinuses are occupied by Fig. 600.—Section op a lymph-gland fkom the neck op an eight-year-old child. (v. Ebner.) Magnified 13 diameters. c, capsule; c.w, cortical nodules of lymphoid tissue, some with germ-centres (lighter in central part); mx, medullary cords of lymphoid tissue; hs, lymph-sinus (the more lightly shaded part of the section); ^r, trabeculae ; f, lymph-vessels; blood-vessels ; i', vein. lymph these glands are termed hcBmal lyrnfli-glands (Robertson), when all are occupied by blood they are known as hcemal glands ; it is stated that these purely haemal glands have no relation to lymphatics, neither receiving nor giving off any lymph-vessels.^ The blood-sinus in the haemal glands is sometimes very large and may occupy the greater part of the interior. The blood-corpuscles penetrate amongst the lymphoid cells of the lymphoid Flemming (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxiv. 1885) described in the lymphocytes of the germ-centres certain peculiar particles staining readily with basic dyes, which he termed the ‘ stainable particles.’ They are possibly extruded portions of nuclear chromatin, but their real nature is unknown. 2 The following are some of the chief papers on haemal glands : Heneage Gibbes, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xxiv. 1884, Amer. Journ. Med. Sc. 1893; Drummond, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxiv. 1900; Glarkson, Brit. Med. Journ. 1891, Text-book of Plistology, 1896 ; Robertson, Lancet, 1896; Vincent and Harrison, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxi. 1897 ; Vincent, Proc. Phys. Soc. Journ. Physiol, xxii. 1898; Warthin, Boston Journ. Med. Sci. v. 1901, Amer. Journ. Anat. i. 1901; T. Lewis, Intern. Monthly Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xx. li)02, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxviii. 1904; K. Helly, Ergebn. d. Anat. xii. 1902; Weidenreich, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixv. 1905. ^ Weidenreich, (yp. cit.