174 MUSCLE some way upon the surface or into the midst of the fleshy part, as in the instances of the rectus muscle of the thigh, and the tibialis posticus. Many short fasciculi connected thus to a long tendon produce by their combined operation a more powerful effect than a few fasciculi running nearly the whole length of the muscle ; but by the latter arrangement the extent of motion is greater, for the points of attachment are moved through a longer space. * p- » ^ n> .L Fig. 262.—Fibres of rectus su- perior OF EYE OF A MUSCULAR SUBJECT, SEEN IN SECTION. (Halban.) Magnified about 170 diameters. ‘ '-C. .v.v'' Fig. 268.—Fibres of gluteus maximus of a MUSCULAR SUBJECT, SEEN IN SECTION. (Halban.) Magnified about 170 diameters. Fibres s their fig’ure and measurement.—In shape the fibres are cylindrical, or prismatic with rounded angles. Their diameter varies greatly even in each muscle, although for the most part a prevail- ing standard is found to exist in every muscle. The largest fibres in human muscles are nearly O'l mm. 0 inch) in diameter; the smallest are only about one-tenth that width. Such muscles as those of the eye are mainly composed of small fibres (fig. 262), and the muscles of the limbs mainly of large ones (fig. 263), but there is no constant relation between the size of a muscle and that of its fibres. The fibres tend to be thicker in the male than in the female and are thicker in muscular subjects than in others (for the same muscles). The difierences between different muscles are not evident in infancy, but manifest themselves in the process of growth.' The fibres composing a muscle are of limited length, generally not exceeding 36 mm. (1'5 inch) ; and accordingly in a long fasciculus a fibre does not reach from one tendinous attachment to the other, but ends with a rounded or tapering extremity, invested with its sarcolemma, and cohering with neighbouring fibres. Unless when either is fixed to a tendon, both extremities of the fibre terminate in the way described, so that it has a long cylin- drical shape. In some muscles—e.g. the sartorius— Fig. 264.—A branched muscular FIBRE FROM THE FROG’s TONGUE. (KiJlliker.) Magnified 350 dia- meters. * G. Schwalbe, Deutsche med. Wochenschr. 1800; Mayeda, Zeitschr. f. Biol. 1800; also Schwalbe and Mayeda, ibiiL 1801. For statistics regarding the diameter of the fibres of dift'erent muscles, see Halban, Anat. Hefte, iii. 1804.