VESSELS AND NERVES 535 as other tributaries of tlie vena, portae, liavc a i)articiilarly well-marked muscular coat and contain numerous valves (Hochstetter). The lymphatics are very numerous. As shown by Loven, they arise in the mucous membrane (lig. 775) as a dense network of lacunar spaces, situated between and amongst the gland-tubuli, which, as well as the blood-vessels, in many parts they enclose in sinus-like ddatations. Near the surface of the membrane the lymph is collected into vessels which form loops or possess dilated extremities : these vessels are less superficial than the blood-capillaries. At the deeper part of the mucous membrane the interglandular lymphatics pass into a plexus of fine vessels (fig. 775, h), immediately underlying the tubular glands ; then piercing the musciilaris mucosEe (a), they form a coarser, more deeply seated network (c) in the submucous coat, the vessels of this network being provided with valves. Thence eft'erent lymphatics proceed, and, piercing the muscular coat, between the layers of which is another plexus, they follow the direction of the blood-vessels beneath the peritoneal investment, and traverse lymphatic glands found along the two curva- tures of the stomach. The nerves, which are large, consist of the terminal branches of the two vagi, and of ofisets from the sympathetic system, derived from the solar plexus. The left pneumogastric nerve descends on the front, and the right upon the back of the stomach ; both nerves are here composed almost entirely of non-medullated nerve- fibres. Numerous small ganglia have been described by Eemak and others on both the vagal and sympathetic twigs. The nerves form gangliated plexuses, both between the layers of the muscular coat and in the submucous coat. From these plexuses nerve-fibrils proceed to the muscular tissue and to the mucous membrane. The pylorus.—While there is no special apparatus at the cardiac orifice of the stomach for closing the passage from the oesophagus, the opening at the pyloric end, leading from the stomach into the duodenum, is pro- vided with a sphincter muscle. On looking into the pyloric end of a distended stomach, the mucous mem- brane is seen projecting in the form of a circular fold, called the 'pylorus, leaving a correspondingly narrow open- ing. Within this fold are circular muscular fibres, belonging to the general system of circular fibres of the alimentary canal, which are here collected in the form of a strong band, whilst the longitudinal muscular fibres and the peritoneal coat pass over the pyloric fold to the duodenum, and do not enter into the formation of the sphincter (fig. 776). Externally the pylorus may be easily felt, like a thickened ring, at the right end of the stomach, where also a slight external constriction is visible. The following articles on the structure of the stomach and its glands (including the oesophageal glands of amphibia) may be referred to : Aufschnaiter, Wiener Sitzungsb. chi. 1894 (muscular coat); Bensley, Anuu\ Journ. Anat. ii. 1902 ; Disse, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1903 (blood-vessels), ibid. Ixxviii. 1911 (lymphatics); v. Ebner in Kolliker’s Hand- buch der Gewebelehre, 1902 ; Edelmann, Deutsche Zeitschr. f. Thicrmcd. xv. 1889, and Inaug. Diss. Rostock, 1889 (glands of cardia); C. Golgi, Arch. ital. di biol. xix. 1893 (secretory canali- culi); M. Greenwood, Journ. Physiol, v. 1884 (changes in gland-cells) ; Gubaroff, Arch. f. Anat. Fig. 776.—Section through pyloric part op STOMACH AND COMMENCEMENT OF DUODENUM FROM A SPECIMEN HARDENED IN SITU. (J. Symington.) Natural size. a, a, a, longitudinal folds of the mucous mem- brane in pyloric part of stomach; b, section of mucous membrane; c, circular muscular fibres of stomach, the longitudinal fibres are just visible tc the naked eye as a narrow line external to the circular fibres; d, duodenum; p, pyloric orifice.