529 GASTRIC GLANDS The gastric glands have certain features in common. They are all tubular and confined to the mucous membrane proper, except close to the pylorus, where they pierce the muscularis mucosae (here imperfect) and extend into the submucous tissue (fig. 798), passing by gradual transition into the glands of Brunner of the duodenum. In man and most animals each gastric gland is formed, as just men- tioned, of secreting tubules which commence blindly near the muscularis mucosae, and, running parallel with one another, open into the enlarged mouth or duct of the gland. In the horse Zimmermann finds that the secreting tubules of the same gland may anastomose. * The mouth or duct appears as a wide depression Fig. 766.—a pyloric gland, from a section OF THE dog’s stomach. (Ebstein.) m, mouth ; n, neck ; tr, a deep portion of a tubule cut transversely. Fig. 767.—A fundus-gland of simple form, FROM THE bat’s STOMACH. Osmic-acid preparation. (Langley.) Magnified 420 diameters. c, columnar epithelium of the surface; n, neck of the gland with central and pari- etal cells; /, base or fundus occupied only by central cells, which exhibit granules accu- mulated towards the lumen of the gland. of the general surface (see p. 527), and is lined by epithelium similar to that of the surface (goblet-cells). The g’lands of the cardia (fig. 765) are found in man in a zone which may extend to 3 cm., from the cardiac orifice, but is usually very small. They are either simple or compound. Those of simple type have somewhat enlarged blind ex- tremities and short mouths, and the secreting tubules are lined by a moderately high columnar epithelium somewhat like that of the pyloric glands; the cells being filled with fine granules. Those of the compound or tubulo-racemose type are somewhat similar in structure to the glands of Brunner of the duodenum. Their cells are clear and columnar. According to Bensley they are partly mucus-secreting, and partly VOL. II. PART I. * Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898. M M