PULMONARY ALVEOLI 585 Tliey are readily seen in a lung which has been inflated with air, although under these conditions they are usually distorted; also upon portions of lung injected with mercury or wax or collodion. In the lungs of some animals, Fig. 852.—Section of pabt of cat’s lung, stained with nitbate of silveb. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Highly magnified. The small granular and the large flattened cells of the alveoli are shown. In the middle is a section of a terminal bronchial tube, with a patch of the granular epithelium-cells on one side. as the lion, cat, and dog, they are large enough to be distinctly visible on the surface of the organ. In the adult human lung their diameter in a condi- tion of moderate distension is usually about 0*25 mm. inch), but varies from 0*1 mm. to 0*4 mm. ; they are larger on the surface than in the interior, and largest towards the thin edges of the organ; they are also large at the apex of the lung. Their dimensions go on increasing from birth to old age, and they are larger in men than in women. In the infant the diameter is usually under 0*12 mm. It is calculated by Aeby that there are from 300 million to 400 million alveoli in the human lung. The whole lung has therefore a lobulated structure, like that of a compound racemose gland. In the foetus the lungs present at one time very much the appearance of a racemose gland in process of develop- ment (fig. 854). The infundibula may be regarded as corresponding to the smallest or ultimate lobules of such a gland. They are represented by polygonal areas enclosing groups of six or eight air-cells which are seen at the surface of the lung (fig. 853). They are grouped into larger or secondary lobules, and these again into yet larger divisions. The various lobules are united and separated by connective Fig. 853.—Pobtion of the outeb subface of the cow’s lung. (From Kolliker, after Harting.) Magnified 30 diameters. a, pulmonary alveoli filled artificially with wax; &, the margins of the smallest lobules.