613 DUCTS OF THE TESTICLE The convolutions of this tube, together with those of the coni vasculosi, are held together by connective tissue and blood-vessels, and form a mass—the epididymis— on the posterior aspect of the testicle proper : it is included within the serous sac which encloses the main organ, and has a special fibrous investment thinner and looser than that of the testicle. From the lower end of the epididymis its tube is continued into the large, thick-walled muscular tube known as the vas deferens (figs. 889, 890, 891, h), which passes up along the spermatic cord to reach the cavity of the pelvis, and there curves round the side and base of the urinary bladder to enter the urethra in its prostatic portion. The vas deferens is dilated near its termination into a reservoir of about double the diameter of the vas, known as the ampulla, and also receives the duct of the seminal vesicle (fig. 891; see also Fig. 890.—Testis, epididymis, and vas deferens. (From Kolliker, after Arnold.) a, body of the testicle; h, lobules; c, vasa recta; d, rete vasculosum; e, vasa efferentia; f, coni vascu- losi; g. epididymis; h, vas deferens; i, vas aberrans; 7/1, branches of the spermatic artery passing to the testicle and epididymis; n, ramification in the testis; o, artery of the vas deferens; p, its union with a twig of the spermatic artery. Fig. 891.—Ducts of the testicle injected with mercury. (From Haller.) a, body of the testicle; 6, tubuli in the interior of the gland; c, rete vasculosum; d, vasa efferentia ter- minating in the coni vasculosi; e,f, g, convoluted canal of the epididymis; h, vas deferens ascending from the globus minor of the epididymis. fig. 929, p. 639), just before its entrance into the urethra. The seminal vesicle is formed of a main portion and, usually, five accessory portions, which open into it; each part consists of a convoluted tube, the main part being, when un- ravelled, about 12 cm. long. The vas deferens is at first convoluted, but within the spermatic cord in its passage through the inguinal canal and pelvis it is simple in arrangement. The vas is a long, thick-walled tube, some 40-45 cm. in length when straightened out, and 2-3 mm. in diameter. It is lined by a two-layered columnar epithelium, which rests on a basement-membrane. Outside this is a connective-tissue corium, which with the epithelium is usually in longitudinal folds. Outside the mucous membrane and separated from it by a submucosa is the muscular coat, and outside this a connective-tissue adventitia. The muscular coat consists of three layers of plain muscular tissue, viz. inner and