169 ABSOKPTION OF ]50NE By their experiments it was shown that when madder is given to a young pig for some weeks, the external part of its bones is reddened, proving that the new osseous matter is laid on at the surface of that previously formed. Again, it was found that, when the madder is discontinued for some time before the animal is killed, an exterior white stratum (the last formed) appears above the red one, whilst the internal white part, which was situated within the red, and had been formed before any madder was given, has become much thinner, showing that absorption takes place from within. In this last modification of the experiment also, as noted by Hunter, a transverse red mark is observed near the ends of the bone, beyond which they are white ; the red part indicating the growth in length during the use of the madder, and the white beyond, that which has taken place subsequently—thus showing that the increase in length is caused by the addition of new matter to the extremities. Madder administered while the process of formation of the concentric lamellae of the Haversian systems is going on, colours the interior and recently formed laminae, so that in a cross-section the Haversian apertures appear surrounded with a red ring. Flourens and Kolliker repeated and varied these madder experiments. Kolliker, in addition, carefully investigated the microscopic appearances observed in the process of absorption. From the results of his researches (which were in part anticipated by those of Loven), it would seem, as already indicated, that the process is essentially dependent on the presence of large multi- nucleated cells, by him termed ‘ ostoclasts,’ similar in general appearance to the ‘ myeloplaxes ’ of marrow, which excavate, in the part which is undergoing absorption, small shallow pits ifoveolce of Howship), in which also they lie. These pits occur wherever absorption is pro- ceeding, and it is to them that the festooned appearance of the Haversian spaces (p. 152) is due. The ostoclasts or (figs. 257, 258) vary in size, but are always many times larger than Fig. 257.—Three osteoclasts from absorption- surfaces OF GROWING BONE. (Kcilliker.) 400 diameters. a, with thickened striated border. Fig. 258.—Bony trabecula from the lower JAW OF A calf-embryo WITH HoWSHIP’S FOVEOL.E AND OSTEOCLASTS AT THE ENDS WHERE ABSORPTION IS PROCEEDING AND OSTEOBLASTS COVERING THE SIDES WHERE BONE IS BEING DEPOSITED. (Kolliker.) the osteoblasts : in shape they are spheroidal or flattened, usually with an even outline. Their substance is granular in appearance, and they each contain from two to ten clear round nuclei, but this number may be considerably exceeded. The osteoclasts have frequently on the side by which they are in contact with the bone a clear striated border (fig. 257, a), somewhat similar to the striated base of the columnar epithelium-cells of the intestine. The osteoclasts were regarded by Kolliker both as in the first instance derived from and as eventually breaking up into osteoblasts. Osteoclasts are found in connexion with the roots of the milk-teeth where these are undergoing absorption to make way for the permanent set. They were also noticed by Bhlroth to produce absorption in ivory pegs which had been driven into bone. What genetic relation, if any, they bear to the megakaryocytes or giant-cells of marrow is uncertain. Multinucleated giant-cells are not associated with bone-absorption alone, but occur in lymph- glands, in the spleen and elsewhere. The osteoclasts probably represent a specific form of such cells.