387 STKUCTUKE OF LEUCOCYTES number (about 10,000 per cubic mm.), and tbeir colourless protoplasm, they are at first a little difficult of recognition amongst so many erythrocytes (the propor- tion of leucocytes to erythrocytes averaging about 1 to 500).^ They are specifically lighter than the erythrocytes, and there- fore are usually found in the uppermost layers of a specimen of blood, immedi- ately under and adhering to the cover- glass. They vary greatly in size in human blood, some being smaller and others larger than the erythrocytes : those which are most numerous aver- age about OT millimetre in diameter (10 /X or 2 5V0 inch), measured in the spherical condition. The nucleus of the leucoc}d;e is diffi- cult to observe in the fresh condition, but is strongly brought out after death and under the action of basic dyes or dilute acids. (See accompanying Plate and figures.) A centriole and attraction-sphere can be detected in the cytoplasm near the nucleus (fig. 580). The protoplasm of the leucocyte has a distinct reticular appearance in the living condition (figs. 577, 578).^ It contains granules which stain some with basic, others with acid, others with neutral, and others with both basic and acid dyes (fig. 579, and Plate); the granules being termed oxy-phil, baso- or basi-phil, neutro- phil, or ampho-phil, according to their affinity for different kinds of stains. These terms have been extended to the cells which contain the particular kind of granule, so that oxy-phil (or eosinophil), basi-phil, etc., leucocytes are commonly spoken of.^ Most leucocytes are highly amoeboid,'* but this property is only slightly marked in the small variety (lymphocytes), which contain very little cytoplasm. To their amoeboid property leucocytes owe the faculty they exhibit of taking into their cytoplasm foreign particles which may be present in blood {phagocytosis). This faculty is also ex- hibited by leucocytes which have wandered out from the blood-vessels (the so-called migratory or wander-cells) and may serve to effect the piecemeal ^ The relative and absolute number of leucocytes varies greatly with varying conditions of health and disease. Injections of certain substances (peptone, nuclein, etc.) also affect the relative proportions of leucocytes to erythrocytes and also the proportions of the different kinds of leucocyte (see below) to one another. Considerable variations in the number of leucocytes in blood drawn from a peripheral vessel may also occur as the result of taking food, of muscular exercise, and even of change of position of the body. These variations are probably to be explained as due for the most part to increase of activity of the heart or blood-circulation, in consequence of which leucocytes which were more or less stationary in the blood-vessels of the internal organs become dislodged and carried into the general circulation. Such increase in number usually lasts only for a short time. (Hasselbalch and Heyerdahl, Skand. Arch. f. Physiol, xx. 1908 ; Ellermann and Erlandsen, Arch. f. exper. Path. u. Pharin. Ixiv. 1900). Increase of activity of the flow of lymph and chyle will also tend to wash more lymphocytes out of the lymph-glands. ^ Schiifer, Quat. Journ. Exper. Physiol, iii. 1910. The staining of some cells has a diffuse appearance, which cannot, strictly speaking, be described as a staining of granules. The amoeboid movements were first observed by Wharton Jones (Phil. Trans. 184G). Fig. 580.—White blood-cobpuscle OF LEPIDOSIREN, WITH LOBED AND ALMOST ANNULAR NUCLEUS AND WELL-MARKED CENTROSOME. (T. H. Bryce.) a Fig. 579.—Various kinds of colourless cor- puscles, SHOWING THE DIFFERENT CHARACTERS OF THE GRANULES. (Schiifer.) (From a film preparation of normal human blood.) a, polymorph ; &, microcyte ; c, macrocyte; cl, oxyphil. Two of each kind have been drawn. oo2