144 BONE of the cancellated becoming closer as they approach the parts where the transition between the two takes place. In all bones, the part next the surface consists of compact substance, which forms an outer shell or crust, whilst the spongy texture is contained within. In a long bone, the large round ends are made up of spongy tissue, with only a thin coating of compact substance (fig. 227) ; in the hollow shaft, on the other hand, the spongy texture is scanty, and the sides are chiefly formed of compact bone, which increases in thickness from the extremities towards the middle, at which point the girth of the bone is least, and the strain on it greatest. In tabular bones, such as those of the skull, the compact tissue forms two plates, or tables, as they are called, enclosing between them the spongy texture, which in such bones is usually named diploe. The short bones, like the ends of the long, are spongy throughout, save at their surface, where there is a thin crust of compact substance. In the complex or mixed bones, such as the vertebrae, the Fig. 228.—A. Tiiansvebse section of a bone (ulna) depbived of its eabth by acid. (Sharpey.) The openings of the Haversian canals are seen. Natural size. A small portion is shaded to indicate the part magnified in B. B. Pabt of the Section A, magnified 20 diametebs. The lines indicating the concentric lamellae are seen, and among them the lacunae appear as little dark specks. two substances have the same general relation to each other; but the relative amount of each in different parts, as well as their special arrangement in particular instances, is very various. On close inspection the cancellated texture of bone is seen to be formed of slender bars or spicules and thin lamellae, which meet together and join in a reticular manner, producing an open structure which has been compared to lattice-work {cancelli) ; hence the name usually applied to it. In this way considerable strength is attained without undue weight, and it may usually be observed that the strongest laminae run through the structure in those directions in which the bone has naturally to sustain the greatest pressure (fig. 227).' The open spaces or areolae of the bony network communicate freely together ; in the fresh state they contain marrow and blood-vessels. ‘ On the architecture of spongy bone, see Friedliinder, Anat. Hefte, xxiii. 1904.