C0KPUSCLE8 OF GRANDRY. 271 ^ Anat. Anz. xvi. 1900. uerve, aud soon divides into capillary branches, which run up between the tunics. They then form loops, and return by a similar route into a vein corresponding to the artery : a single capillary usually accompanies the nerve as far as the core, and passes some way on the wall of the latter, sometimes with a spiral direction (Bowman). Occasionally a vessel enters the corpuscle at the distal end and passes towards the core, uniting the tunics in its passage. Solokoff ^ describes a slender non-medullated fibre accompanying the medullated fibre, and ending over the surface of the core in an arborescent or reticular termination. A similar fibre has been described by A. S. Dogiel in the Herbst corpuscle. The core is not structureless, as on superficial examination it seems to be, but exhibits in its outer part longitudinal striation and nuclei in variable number. In transverse section the striation in the outer part of the core is seen to be concentric, and is produced apparently by flattened nucleated cells, which are so arranged as to enclose the inner and more homogeneous portion. At the entrance of the nerve- fibre into the core the nucleated cells here spoken of are to all appearance continuous with cells in the endoneurium around the entering nerve-fibre, so that this outer part of the core, at least, may be regarded as formed by an expansion of endo- neurium. The inner part, on the other hand—that, namely, which is in immediate contact with the axis-cylinder, appears structureless, but is developed as a mass of cells, the nuclei of which are seen at its periphery. The cells themselves seem to have become fused into a syncytium which envelops the terminating nerve-fibre. TACTILE END-ORGANS OF BIRDS. On account of the light which they throw upon the structure of the end-bulbs of mammals, a short description of certain tactile end-organs of birds may be given here. Corpuscles of G-randry.—It was noticed by Grandry ^ that in the soft skin covering the bill of certain birds, such as the duck and goose, a peculiar form of end-organ exists consisting of two or more flattened cells, enclosed in a common capsule of connective tissue, and re- ceiving between them the termination of an axis-cylin- der (fig. 427). They are also found in great numbers in the mucous membrane of the duck's palate, along with the Herbst corpuscles to be im- mediately noticed. The cells which form a corpuscle of Grandry have the surfaces which are opposed to one another flattened or slightly hollowed. Their pro- toplasm is striated. There may be two only of these cells in a corpuscle of Grandry, or there may be three or four or even more, piled the one on the other. When numerous they may lose their regularity of arrangement. Occupying the interval between every two cells is a disc termed the ‘ tactile disc,' and according to the testimony of all observers the axis-cylinder of the entering nerve-fibre ends in these ^ Joum. de I’anat. et de physiol. 1869. Fig. 427.—Tactile corpuscles from the duck’s tongue. (Izquierdo.) A, composed of three cells, with two interposed discs, into which the axis-cylinder of the nerve, n, is observed to pass; in B there is but one tactile disc enclosed between two tactile cells; C illustrates the development of a tactile corpuscle like the one shown in B; e, deeper cells of the epithelium covering the papillated surface of the tongue; 'p, apex of a papilla, in which there appears to be a downgrowth of epithelium-cells the lowermost of which are becoming developed into tactile cells.