287 ENDINGS IN SENSE-ORGANS tube. Finally this outer wall is lined internally by flattened or cubical cells which probably serve mainly to secrete the endolymph : at one part {stria vascularis) this epithelium of the outer wall is vascular and pigmented. The organ of Corti is formed of (1) sense epithelium-cells, the so-called hair- cells ; (2) susteritacular cells {rods of Corti and cells of Deiters) ; (3) the memhrana tectoria already referred to ; (d) a reticular membrane which overlies the hair-cells and is connected with the sustentacular cells ; (5) the endings of the auditory nerve fibres. The hair-cells (fig. 455) form in all four or five rows arranged in two series : one series (inner hair-cells) forms a single row near the spiral lamina, and the other series (outer hair-cells) forms three or four rows outside the rods of Corti. The hair-cells of the organ of Corti are somewhat similar to those of the maculae of the vestibule, but the auditory hairs are comparatively short and stumpy, and are collected into a small group at the free surface of each hair-cell. The body of the hair-cell is columnar, being rounded below; this part, which contains the nucleus, is in contact with the termi- nal arborisations of the nerve-fibres. Separating the inner and outer series of hair-cells are the rods of Corti, which form a double row {inner and outer) of highly modified and peculiar-shaped cells, standing stiffly with an inclination towards one another upon the basilar membrane and having the reticular membrane attached to their free ends (heads). Lying between the outer hair-cells are the cells of Deiters which also extend stiffly from the basilar membrane to the reticular membrane, so that these stifi structures form a sort of framework to uphold and protect the more delicate hair-cells and nerve- fibres. Beyond the outer hair-cells the epithelium of the organ of Corti takes the form at first of columnar, then of cubical cells, which last continued along the basilar are Fig. 456.—Ending of nerve-fibbes amongst the HAiB-CELLS OF THE COCHLEA. Golgi preparaiioii. (G. Retzius.) g, cell of spiral ganglion ; iJi, inner, o.li, outer hair-cells. membrane to the outer wall of the cochlea. The cells which are next to the inner hair-cells also become gradually shorter towards the limbus and pass into the ordinary lining cells of the mem- branous labyrinth. The reticular membrane is, as its name implies, a netlike cuticular thickening which is connected with the free ends of the rods of Corti and cells of Deiters, and has apertures through which project the ‘ hairs " of the hair-cells ; these hairs abut against the under surface of the soft fibrous and pad- like tectorial membrane. The nerve-fibres of the cochlea are derived from bipolar cells (fig. 456), forming a continuous spirally-arranged ganglion {spiral ganglion, ganglion cochlece) at the