STKUCTUKE OE NERVE-TRUNKS ‘238 STRUCTURE OF THE NERVES AND NERVE-TRUNKS The nerve-fibres in the peripheral nerves run together in small bundles, which are circular in section (fig. 374) and are named funiculi] these are gathered together to form the nerve-trunks. The funiculi are very variable in size, according to the number of fibres which they contain, and when there are several funiculi composing a nerve-trunk, they are constantly branching and uniting with other funiculi in their course along the nerve, so that it is impossible to dissect out a single funiculus for any distance. But while the funiculi thus branch and unite, the individual nerve- fibres which they contain run unbranched from the one funiculus to the other, and by this constant interchange the nerve-fibres, however various their origin, become, as a rule, thoroughly mixed up as they pass along the nerve-trunk. Fig. 874.—Section of sciatic neiive of man. Low-power photograph. (Schiifer.) Twelve funiculi of different sizes are included in the figure, each enclosed in its lamellar perineurium. The epineurium contains numerous fat-cells, which appear white in the photograph. Exceptions are, however, found in which nerve-fibres of one origin remain within their own funiculus, which is merely attached, as it were, to another nerve, its fibres remaining unmixed with the fibres of the latter : an example of this is presented by the chorda tympani, which leaves the facial nerve in the aqueduct of Fallopius, and, passing across the cavity of the tympanum and through the Glaserian fissure, attaches itself to the course of the lingual branch of the fifth, by which it is con- ducted, without mingling with the true lingual fibres, towards the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and the tongue, to all of which it is eventually distributed. Each funiculus is encircled by a sheath of connective tissue, which is termed the perineuriufn (Key and Retzius (figs. 374, 375). It is composed of very thin layers or lamellsG of white fibrous tissue, the fibres of which run circularly near the surfaces of the lamellae. Intermixed with these in the thickness of each lamella are a certain number of fine elastic fibres, disposed in the form of a network. Each layer thus constituted is covered on its surfaces with flattened pavement-like (epithelioid) 1 Studien in der Anat. des Nervensystems, 1S9G.