11 PROTOPLASM ■proteins;' and (3) inorganic substances {ions), certain of which are constantly found associated with the proteids of protoplasm and enter into loose combination with them, forming ion- proteins. Some of these appear to be essential to its functional activity. The most constant are the kat-ions, calcium, potassium, and sodium, and the an-ion, chlorine (J. Loeb^). Further, a supply of oxygen, either free or in some combination from which it can be dis- sociated by the living substance of the cell, is essential to the metabolic activity of protoplasm ; and an invariable result of this activity is the production of carbon dioxide, which is never permitted to accumulate, but is speedily removed by extrusion into the surrounding medium. The interehange which thereby oceurs in all living substance constitutes respiration. The eell-proteins are ‘ colloid ’ substances in the sense in which this term was used by Graham,^ and the electrolytes with whieh they are associated in the protoplasm are ‘ crystalloids.’ It is upon the presence of the latter that the osmotic properties of cell-protoplasm, which are intimately connected with many of its functions, essentially depend. Enzymes (ferments) are present in all protoplasm, and are probably assoeiated with its protein eonstituents or are elaborated from them by the living substance of the cell. Hence the occurrence of autolysis (auto-digestion) of cells and tissues kept under aseptie conditions. * Besides proteins and nucleoproteins, certain non-proteid organic substances seem constantly to occur in small proportion as essential constituents of cell-protoplasm. The most unportant of these are the lipoids, such as lecithin, and the alcohol cholesterin. Lecithin is composed of glycerophosphoric acid, associated with fatty acid {stearic), and united with the ammonium base, cholin. Its physical properties are of a peculiar nature, since, whilst insoluble in water and watery solutions of electrolytes, it is capable of absorbing them and of permitting their passage through its substance. Thus it may play within the cell the part of a semi-permeable membrane, and whilst serving to confine the colloid constituents of the protoplasm, may permit the passage of and exchange between its crystalloid constituents and those of the surrounding medium. In the red blood-corpuseles, or erythrocytes, it is capable of direct proof that the external film is partly of a lipoid nature, and it is probable, from the behaviour of animal cells to watery solutions of electrolytes, that a similar film is always present at the surface of protoplasm.^ As for the main substance of the cell-protoplasm, it has been suggested (Hardy) that we may conceive this to be made up of infinitesimal particles of colloid material (protein) suspended in a watery solution of electrolytes, with which the colloid may enter into loose eombination. The behaviour under various conditions of such a colloidal suspension and its relation to cell-activity have been studied of late years by many observers,® and especially in this country by Hardy. ^ The main conclusions arrived at by Hardy may be summarised as follows : 1. The osmotic pressure of a mixture of eolloid and erystaUoid is not affected by the colloid particles, but solely by the electrolytes. 2. The eolloid particles, whieh when finely divided and suspended in the interparticulate fluid have aU the appearance of a solution, under certain conditions become fused into aggre- gations, and these may further beeome linked together either into a network (or spongework) with the fluid occupying the interstices, or into a honeycomb with the fluid oecupying the cavities. When such fusion occurs the colloid substance becomes relatively solid, passing from apparent 1 For the constitution of these substances, and the chemistry of cells generally, see A. Kossel, Arch, f. Physiol. 1891; Miescher, Arbeiten, 1897; O. Cohnheim, Chemie der Eiweiss-kbrper, 1900; Abder- halden, Vorlesungen, 1909. M. Heidenhain, Plasma und Zelle, also deals with this subject. The discovery of nuclein is due to Miescher, who first obtained it from pus-cells (1871); it is contained in much larger amount in the nucleus than in the protoplasm (see also p. 38). - American Journ. of Physiol, vol. i. and ii. 1900, 1902. On phosphorus in cells, see A. B. Macallum, Proc. Roy. Soc. Ixiii. 1899; on potassium, Joum. Physiol, xxxii. 1905. For the literature of the subject the article by the same author on ‘ Microchemical methods and results ’ in Ergebn. der Physiol. 1908 may be consulted. ^ Phil. Trans. 1861. * On cell-ferments, see W. Jacoby, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1902. ■’ Overton, Viertelj. d. Naturforschergesellsch. in Ziirich, 1899; and in Nagel’s Handb. der Physiol, ii. 1907. Rhumbler has shown that the external layer in amoeba differs in its behaviour to alkalies from the internal part. See further on cell-lipoids, I. Bang, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1907 and 1909; C. Ciaccio, Anat. Anz. xxxv. 1909. ® Picton and Linder, Journ. Chem. Soc. vol. Ixvii. 1895, and vol. Ixxi. 1897 ; Biitschli, Unters. ii. Struktur &c., 1898; A. Fischer, Bau des Protoplasmas, 1899; G. Mann, various papers, referred to in Physiological Histology, 1902 ; Rhumbler, Arch. f. Entwicklungsmechanik, xvi. 1903; Hamburger, Osm. Druck u. lonenlehre, 1904. A concise account of the subject, with bibliography to date, will be found in two papers by H. Aron, ‘ Ueber organische Kolloide,’ in Biochemisches Centralblatfc, 1905, iii. pp. 461, 501, and iv. p. 505. See also Pauli, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1906 and 1907 ; Botazzi, ibid. 1908 ; and Zangger, ibid. 1908. W. B. Hardy, Joum. Physiol. 1899, xxiv. 158, 288; Proc. Roy. Soc. 1900, Ixvi. pp. 95-110; Proc Physiol. Soc. May 1903 ; Journ. Physiol, xxxiii. p. 251, 1905.