681 SUPKARENAL CAPSULE plexus surrounding tlie cortex; from this capillaries converge towards the medulla. In some animals these vessels loop back towards the cortex, but in others they open into an inner vascular circle which lies just within the boundary of the medulla. The veins, for the most part, open into the left innominate vein. The lymphatics are large. According to the observations of His on the calf, the larger blood-vessels passing to the centre are each accompanied by two or more lymphatic trunks. These arise from an interlobular plexus, which again is in con- nexion with vessels that surround and enclose the individual follicles without penetrating them. One or two collecting vessels pass from each lobe to lymph- glands close to the organ. ‘ The nerves are minute. Haller thought that they were partly derived from the phrenics, but according to Cooper no filaments from these nerves go into the gland, although they reach the investing capsule; as does also a branch from the descendens hypoglossi. Small filaments, derived from the vagus and sympathetic nerves, descend, on the thyroid body, to the upper part of the thymus. Sympathetic nerves also reach the gland along its various arteries. The functions of the thymus, as a whole, are obscure : its structure would lead to the sup- position that, like the lymph-glands, it may he a source of supply of lymphocytes, but the ap- pearances are also compatible with its serving as a storage-place for those cells. In certain individuals it is found to persist in a well-developed form until comparatively late in life ; this persistence is associated with the condition known to chnicians as the status lym'pliaticus.- THE SUPRAREHAE CAPSULES. The suprarenal capsules or adrenals are important internally secreting glands which lie in close anatomical relation to the kidneys in man and many animals (fig. 983), but have no corresponding functional relation to them. They consist Fig. 983.—Fbont view of the bight KIDNEY AND SUPBABENAL BODY OF A FULL-GBOWN FCETUS. (Allen Tliomsou.) This figure shows the lobulated form of the foetal kidney, r ; v, the renal vein and artery ; u, the ureter ; s, the supra- renal capsule; the letter is placed near the sulcus in which the large veins {v') are seen emerging from the interior of the organ. Fig. 984. — Section of the SUPBABENAL BODY. (Allen Thomson.) A vertical section of the supra- renal body of a foetus, twice the natural size, showing the lower notch by which it rests on the summit of the kidney (?•), and the anterior notch by which the suprarenal vein (u) issues, toge- ther with the distinction between the medullary and cortical sub- stance. of a mass of epithelium-like glandular substance enclosed by a connective-tissue capsule, in the deeper layers of which, at least in some animals, are plain-muscle- cells. The capsule sends septa or trabeculae into the organ. Near the surface ^ Severeanu, Arch. f. Anat. 1909. See further on the lymphatics of the thymus Matsunga, Arch, f. Anat. 1910. ' The literature of the thymus will be found in Hammar, ‘ Fiinfzig Jahre Thymusforschung,’ Merkel and Bonnet’s Ergebn. d. Anat. xix. 1909. ’