J30NE m2 At the ends, some of the embryonic bone which is thus laid down remains to form the cancellated'tissue, but in the shaft most of this structure is afterwards removed by absorption, to give place to the"medullary canal. In the walls of many of the secondary cavities the calcified cartilage’which bounded the coalesced primary areolo3 may long be distinguished as arched lines forming by their union a sort of festooned outline, upon which the new bony laminae have been de- posited (see figs. 252 and 253, c). In some of the smaller bones it may happen that the calcified cartilage is completely absorbed Fig. 248.—Longitudinal section through THE UPPER H.^iLF OF THE DECALCIFIED HUMERUS OF A FCETAL SHEEP, AS SEEN UNDER A MAGNIFYING POWER OF ABOUT 30 DIAMETERS. (Schiifer.) ic, the part of the shaft which was pri- marily ossified in cartilage ; what remains of the primary bone is represented as dark, enveloped by the cletir secondary deposit. The areolae of the bone are occupied by embryonic marrow with osteoblasts, and blood-vessels variously cut, represented as dark lines. One long straight vessel {hv) passes in advance of the line of ossification far into the cartilaginous head, most of the others loop round close to the cartilage. At one or two places in the older parts of the bone elongated groups of cartilage-cells (c) may still be seen which have as yet escaped absorption, iui, the part of the bone that has been ossified in membrane, that is to say in the osteoblastic tissue under the periosteum. It is well marked oft’ from the central portion, and is bounded, peripherally, by a jagged edge, the projec- tions of which are indistinctly seen to be prolonged by bunches of osteogenic fibres. A row of osteoblasts covers the superficial layer of the bone. The subperiosteal layer is prolonged above into the thickening (p), which encroaches upon the cartilage of the head of the bone, and in which are seen, amongst numerous osteoblasts and a few blood-vessels, the straight, longitudinal osteo- genic fibres (of), and some other fibres (pf) crossing them, and perhaps representing perforating fibres. The calcareous salts having been removed by an acid, the granu- lar ossific deposit passing up between the rows of cartilage-cells is not seen in this specimen. Observe the general tendency of the osseous trabecuhe and the vascular channels between them to radiate from the original centre of ossification. This is found to prevail more or less in all bones when they are first formed, although the direction of the trabecuhu may afterwards become modified in relation with varying physiological condi- tions, and especially as the result of pressure in different directions. from the centre of the shaft before any new deposition of bone takes place. This is the case in the plialanges (see Plate, and fig. 249). The substance forming the original calcareous walls of the areola^ and produced by calcification of the cartilaginous matrix, is decidedly granular, has a dark appearance, and is stained (after decalcification) by ha'inatoxylin ; the subsequent or secondary deposit on the other hand is transparent, and of a uniform, homogeneous