38 STRUCTURE OF CELL undergone a certain degree of vacuolation by accumulation of hyaloplasm within it, and this affords a transition to the sponge-like structure which most nuclei exhibit. In other cells again the nuclein is reduced to a very small amount and the nucleus is mainly formed of oxy-chromatic material, staining hardly at all with basic dyes. Occasionally, as in the nuclei of the cells of the salivary glands of the Chironomus larva, the chromatin is permanently in the form of a skein of interwoven threads instead of taking the shape of a network (fig. 72): this condition, which generally is character- istic of commencing nuclear division, is rarely present in resting, i.e. non-dividing, nuclei, although not un- common in those of insects (Carnoy). Although it is probable that the substance of the nucleus _ —at least its nuclein—is of firmer consistence than the proto- HiRONOMus LAR^ A. (Flemming,) plasm of the cell (which in the living condition is at most semi- fluid),* it must not be conceived as being solid, for it most easily alters its shape, either spontaneously or with any alterations in pressure which may be imparted to it, such as occur from movements of the protoplasm. This is strikingly exemplified in amoeboid cells in which the nucleus is pulled first in one and then in another direction by the moving protoplasm, and assumes in consequence the most irregular bi-lobed, tri-lobed, or multi-lobed forms, the several parts or lobes being often nearly dragged asunder, although they are hardly ever completely separated, being joined by drawn-out threads of the nuclein material (fig. 73). The lobes are rarely angular, but usually rounded. All these circum- stances indicate that the material of which the nucleus is composed is of a soft and probably slimy consist- ence, and as the protoplasm is still softer and more fluid than the nucleus, it follows that the whole living substance of the cell, whether j)rotoplasmic or nuclear, is, physi- cally speaking, more fluid than solid, and is subject to the laws which govern the behaviour of droplets of fluid material and especially the laws of surface tension. Chemically the nucleus resem- bles cell-protoplasm in the fact that both contain nucleic acid combined with protein. But in the nucleus the proportion of nucleic acid to protein is much larger than in the cytoplasm, and its protein tends to exhibit a simpler chemical constitution, assuming in certain nuclei, which have been specially chemically investigated, such as the nuclei of the spermatozoa of fish, the form of protamines, bodies of a far simpler composition than ordinary proteins.^ Phosphorus is an integral constituent of nucleic acid to the extent of nearly 10 per cent.. This has of late years been especially insisted upon by Rhumbler (Zeitschr. f. allg. Physiol. 1902). - Kossel, Zeitschr. f. physiol. Chem., various articles from 1886 onwards. Also Sur les protamines &c. Soc. chim. de Paris, 1903; O. Cohnheim, up. cit. R. Burian, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1904 and 1906. Protamine was first obtained by Miescher (1870) from salmon-milt. Fig. 73.—Amceboid leucocyte of Triton fixed by a jet OF STEAM and STAINED WITH HJ3MATOXYLIN. (Schiifer.) Magnified 1360 diameters. The nucleus at first sight appears multiple, but on careful examination its several parts are seen to be united by threads of basi-chromatin. These are not all visible in the figure, which is an untouched photograph, and shows only one plane of the thickness of the corpuscle. Fig. 72.—Gland-cell of