STRUCTUEE OF CELL 20 the observations of Hardy, which have thrown much light upon the constitution and properties of colloidal solutions, and which have been looked upon—if not by Hardy himself, at any rate by other writers on protoplasmic structure—as indicating that the structural differentiation of the protoplasm of many cells into spongioplasm and hyaloplasm is an artifact, really cast considerable probability upon the existence of such differentiation, since they show how easily this structure can be produced in a colloidal solution (such as occurs in cell-protoplasm) by changes which may take place even during the life of the ceU. The proof that such changes do actually occur in vivo was furnished by Greely,' who showed that the protoplasm of Protozoa (Paramoecium, Stentor, Amoeba) exhibits structural changes during life in response to variations in temperature and in chemical changes of the circumjacent fluid, as well as to the electrical current, which are strictly comparable to the changes described by Hardy in coUoidal solutions; being coagulated (often in a reticular manner) by certain agencies, liquefied by others—and these changes are intimately associated with such vital manifestations of the organism as amoeboid and ciliary movement. It has further been suggested - that the appearance of radiating structure which characterises the ‘ astro sphere ’ formed within the fertilised ovum as the result of the introduction of the spermatozoon (middle piece with centrosome) is due to a localised coagulation ; for a similar appearance can be produced by various agencies of a chemical and mechanical nature, which act in this way upon colloid solutions. Similar localised coagula have also been shown to accompany (or precede) artificial parthenogenesis in Echinoderm ova (see p. 32). The conclusion to be drawn is, therefore, that protoplasm is essentially a colloidal solution (suspension) whose particles become aggregated or dis- aggregated by various agencies, electrical, chemical, or mechanical; and that such aggregation may determine both structural and functional modifications within the cytoplasm. It has been stated (p. 15) that in the case of certain animal-cells it can be shown, without the action of any reagents, that a reticular (spongy) structure is present during life. In gland-cells, where a reticular appear- ance of the living cell has been remarked by many observers, the • appearance may be produced by the ”” fact that the protoplasm is filled with Fig. 30.—Lace-like appeaeance of living proto- ,. , , , PLASM OF A LEUCOCYTE OF SALAMANDER. (Scluifei’.) secretiou-granules, and the protoplasm Magnified 1,200 diameters. Untouched photograph, left between these necessarily has a The lacelike protoplasm is partly spread over reticular appearance ill optical section. an erythrocyte. t pi n -j.! • i in other fixed cells with a sing-le definite function one might expect to find that the protoplasm has undergone more or less differentiation. But such differentiation is not confined to the protoplasm of fixed cells; it shows itself also in free cells, such as Rhizopoda (fig. 29) and leucocytes (fig. 15). In many of the latter, when spread out by their amoeboid activity over the cover-glass of a microscopic preparation, it is possible to detect, in spite of its high degree of translucency, a distinct spongy or reticular appearance in the protoplasm, and in thin films under a high magnifying power the effect of fine lace is produced (fig. 30). The proof of the pre-existence of a colloidal reticulum in many cells—which is derived from the fact that a large number of different fixations produce a similar reticular appearance within the cell—is more easy of demonstration than the , , . ..... - 1 Biol. Bull. 1904, vol. vii. No. 1. ^ M. H. Fischer and W. Ostwald, Pfliiger’s Arch. Bd. cvi. p. 229, 1905.