MOUTH 487 glands and other structures special to the skin. In various regions, but especially at the posterior part of the nasal fossae near their communication with the pharynx, lymphoid tissue occurs in the corium. It may be here and there accumulated into lymphoid nodules, foreshadowing the adenoid tissue found so abundantly in the adjacent upper part of the pharynx. THE MOUTH. Mucous membrane of the mouth. — This mucous membrane, which is continuous at the outer margin of the lips with the skin and at the isthmus of the fauces with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, varies considerably in dif- ferent regions in the closeness of its adhesion to subjacent structures. Thus it is intimately adherent over the hard palate and gums and over the greater part of the tongue; less firmly over the soft palate, and least over the cheeks and lips (except at their free edge) and on the floor of the mouth and under-surface of the tongue. The corium is formed of areolar tissue bounded by an ill-defined basement by stratified epithelium composed of Fig. 706.—Coeonal section of the tongue about THE MIDDLE OF ITS LENGTH ; LEFT HALF SEEN FROM BEHIND. (W. Krause.) 1, papillae on the dorsal surface; 2, transverse muscular fibres ; 3, septum linguae ; 4, genio-glossus; 5, ranine artery ; 6, inferior lingualis ; 7, hyo-glossus ; 8, vertical muscular fibres; 9, stylo-glossus ; 10, super- ficial lingual muscle. membrane, and is covered everywhere several layers of cells (fig. 703), but less Fig. 707.—Longitudinal vertical section of the tongue. (Arnold.) symphysis of the lower jaw ; rZ, incisor tooth; 7/., hyoid bone ; g.li.., genio-hyoid muscle ; (j, genio-hyo-glossus spreading along the whole of the tongue; tr, transverse muscle; Is, superior longitudinal muscle; gl, lingual glands; /, lymphoid crypts; e, epiglottis; I, section of the lip and labial glands; o, cut fibres of the orbicularis oris; Z.?n., levator menti. complex in its composition than the epidermis covering the skin. The superficial scaly cells are constantly being removed, and mingle with the saliva;