PAVEMENT-EPITHELIUM 83 distributed to most epitlielia, ending between the cells in dendritic ramifications of their fibrils. Epithelia may be derived from any of the blastodermic layers ; thus the epithelium of the skin (epidermis) and of the mouth are derived from the ectoderm, that of the gullet, stomach, and intestines from the entoderm, and that of the serous cavities and renal tubules from the mesoderm. The functions of epithelia are very various. Some, like the epidermis, are mainly protective, others are for secretion or for absorption (glandular and intestinal epithelium), others for moving fluid over the surfaces which they cover (ciliated epithelium of air-passages, generative passages, and ventricles of brain), others for receiving impressions of sense (sense-epithelia). ‘ Epithelium-cells exhibit great adaptability to variations in the surface which they cover. This is especially well seen in the epithelium lining hollow contractile viscera, such as the gall-bladder and urinary bladder. In the condition of distension of such viscera almost all the Fig. 129.—Endothelial LAYER LINING THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY OF MAN. (Schiifer.) 250 dia- meters. Nitrate of silver prepa- ration. Fig. 130.—Part op a lymphatic vessel in the pleural COVERING OF THE DIAPHRAGM. Nitrate of silver prepara- tion. (Kanvier.) Magnified 116 diameters. Z, Z, the lymphatic vessel with characteristic epithelium ; c, cell-spaces of the connective tissue. cells may acquire a thin flattened shape, since the surface they cover has become much extended, but in the contracted empty condition of the organ they may all become elongated perpendicularly to the corium, so as to become thicker than they are broad. This adaptability implies the possession of much extensibility and retractility, as well as very perfect elasticity. It will be sufficient in this place to give a general description of the more common kinds of epithelium, reserving special points of structure until the organs in which they occur are treated of. Pavement-epithelium,—This is formed of a single layer of very thin cells, often difficult to demonstrate without the silver method of staining, which blackens the intercellular material and outlines the cells. They may be polygonal in outline like a mosaic, as in serous membranes (fig. 128); or diamond-shaped, as in ^ That the character of an epithelium may be modified by a variation in external conditions is shown by Uie observations of Haycraft and Carlier (Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1888), who found that the ciliated epithelium of the trachea, wherever it becomes subjected to friction, tends to be transformed into stratified epithelium. o 2