]?LOOD-VESSELS 840 driven backwards, the refluent blood, getting between the dilated wall of the vein and the flaps of the valve, will press them inwards until their edges meet in the middle of the channel and close it up. The endothelial cells differ in shape and arrangement upon the two surfaces of the valves. On the side which faces inwards, and past which the current of blood flows, the cells are elongated in the direction of the current, whereas upon the opposite side which, when the valves are thrown back, faces the wall of the vein, the cells are elongated transversely. The main substance of the valve consists of transversely arranged connective tissue, which is strengthened on the side of the valve not facing the sinus by an abundance of elastic tissue corresponding to the internal elastic lamina. The valve is thinner close to its attachment than elsewhere, and possesses in the ox, but not in man, a few transverse muscular fibres, while the whole of the non-striped muscle in the vessel wall in the neighbourhood of the valves has a longitudinal direction. The valvular folds are usually placed in pairs as above described : in the veins of the horse and other large quadrupeds three are sometimes found, but this rarely occurs in the human body. On the other hand, the folds are placed singly in some of the smaller veins, and in large veins single valvular folds are not unfre- quently placed over the openings of smaller entering branches ; also in the right auricular sinus of the heart there is a single crescentic fold at the orifice of the vena cava inferior, and another more completely covering the opening of the principal coronary vein. Many veins are destitute of valves. Those which measure less than about 2 mm. in diameter rarely, if ever, have them. In the human subject, valves are wanting in the superior and inferior venae cavae, in the trunk and branches of the portal vein (except its gastric tributaries, Koeppe), in the hepatic, renal and uterine veins ; also in the ovarian veins of the female. In the male, the corre- sponding veins (spermatic) have valves in their course, and in each sex a little valve is occasionally found in the renal vein, placed over the entrance of the spermatic or ovarian. The pulmonary veins, those within the cranium and vertebral canal, and those of the cancellated texture of bone, as well as the trunk and branches of the umbilical vein, are also without valves. In the azygos and intercostal veins valves are not generally found, and when present are few in number. On the other hand, they are numerous in the veins of the limbs (and especially of the lower limbs), which are much exposed to pressure in the muscular movements or from other causes, and have often to support the blood against the action of gravity. No valves are met with in the veins of reptiles and fishes, and not many in birds. Blood-supply of vessels.—The coats of arteries and veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, vasa vasorum, which may penetrate into the middle coat and even approach the inner surface. They are, however, only found in the largest vessels, and are not abundant in these. Structure of Vessels in Special Situations. Blood-vessels of the cranial cavity.'—The arteries Avhich are supplied to the brain differ from others of the same size met with elsewhei’e in having a specially strongly developed inner elastic lamina ; a very slight development of elastie material in the muscular or middle coat; and, finally, a remarkable absenee of longitudinal clastic fibres. The internal elastic lamina is always fenestrated; the fenestrae, oval in shape, with the long axis running longitudinall}% are fewer and further apart in the larger vessels. This lamina is both relatively and absolutely thicker in eerebral vessels than in others, and shows the peculiarity that it lias projections on its inner side in all tlie larger vessels, while in other arteries the ' H. Triepel, Auat. Hefte, vii. .1890-97, and ibid, xi. 1899; H. Scluippler, Auat. Hefte, 1900. XV.