464 THE SKIN of these are in the intercellular substance. The air-lacunules are abundant in white hairs, and are best seen in them, there being no risk of deception from pigment- specks ; indeed they may be altogether wanting in very dark hairs. Viewed by transmitted light they are dark, but brilliantly white by reflected light. When a white hair has been boiled in water, ether, or oil of turpentine, these cavities become filled with fluid, and are then quite pellucid ; but when’ a hair which has been thus treated is dried, the air quickly finds its way again into the lacunae, and they resume their original aspect. The medulla or fith does not exist in all hairs in the human subject. It is want- ing in the fine hairs over the general surface of the body, and is not commonly met with in those of the head, nor in the hairs of children under five years. When present it occupies the centre of the shaft and ceases towards the point. It is composed of rows of cells, differing in shape, but generally angular, and in many animals exhibiting regular patterns. When viewed by transmitted light, it is black ; by reflected light, on the other hand, it is white, its colour being due to the contained air-particles which lie in spaces between the cells, but in the hairs of a few animals within the cells. They are produced by the drying of the originally soft cells of the medulla on exposure of the growing hair to the atmosphere. The medulla may be interrupted at parts for a greater or less extent. In the latter case, the axis of the stem at the interruptions is fibrous like the surrounding parts. The white colour which hair assumes with age is chiefly due to the absence of pigment in the fibrous part, allowing the white air-particles both of this, and especially of the medulla, to become manifest. If there is no medulla, as is the case in some individuals, the hair never becomes fully white with age, but merely grey.* The root of the hair is lighter in colour and softer than the stem ; in young and growing hairs it swells out at its lower end into a hollow bulbous enlargement or knob (see h, Ti, of Plate), but in older hairs which have ceased to grow and are in process of being shed, the termination of the root is not hollow but solid. Its ex tremity appears expanded, but in place of overlying a papilla it has a ragged termina- tion amongst the cells of the root-sheath. These hairs are termed non-pafillated or club hairs to distinguish them from the growing or papillated hairs just mentioned {h', h'). The root of the hair is received into a recess of the skin named the hair- jollicle, which, when the hair is of considerable size, reaches down into the subcutaneous fat. The substance of the hair, of epidermic nature, is, like the epidermis itself, quite extra- vascular, but, like that structure also, it is organised and subject to internal organic changes. Thus, in the progress of its growth, the cells change their figure and acquire greater consistency. In consequence of their elongation, the hair, bulbous at the commencement, becomes reduced in diameter, and cylindrical above. But it cannot be said to what precise distance from the root organic changes may extend. Some have imagined that the hairs are slowly permeated by a fluid from the root to the point, but this has not been proved. The sudden change of the colour of the hair from dark to grey, which sometimes happens, has never been satisfactorily explained : it is usually supposed to be due to the development of air between the elongated cells composing the hair. The rate of growth of hair is about half an inch a month. Hairs are found on nearly all parts of the skin ; the exceptions being the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, the whole surface of the third phalanges of the fingers and toes, and the flexor and lateral surfaces^of the other phalanges; they are also absent on the glans penis, and on the inner surface of the prepuce and of the labia majora. They are most numerous on the scalp, where there are 200 to 300 or more per square centimetre ; on the chin there are about 44 in the same area ; on the back of the forearm 24, and on the back of the hand 18 (v. Brunn). On the scaflo they are set in groups of three to five ; over the rest of the skin grouping is for the most part not so evident, but it is generally present, although there may be only two or three hairs in each group. The lower ends of the follicles are not so manifestly grouped as the hairs them- * On the loss of pigment in hairs sec Stieda, Anat. Hefte, xl. 1010.