BLOOD-VESSELS 352 these being the fibres of the depressor division of the vagus (Kiister and Tschermak). The ganglion-cells of this sensory nerve, being situated in the superior portion of the jugular ganglion of the vagus, send their peripheral processes to the aorta, where the medullated fibres terminate in the intima after having lost their medullary sheath in the media. Whether the delicate nerve-fibres accompanying blood-capillaries which possess no muscular coat are sensory or motor, it is difficult to say; for, as explained on p. 345, the presence of muscle is by no means essential for the contraction of capillaries. Nerves as to the efferent nature of which there cannot be any doubt are found in vessels which contain definite non-striped muscle-cells. By means of Golgi’s silver-chromate method it is easy, especially in the spleen, to demonstrate the repeated dendritic branchings of the nerve-fibres before they terminate on the surface of each separate muscle-cell. Around the blood-vessels in the mucous membrane of the intestine it is possible to show by Ehrlich’s intra vitam methylene-blue method, and also by modifications of Golgi’s method (fig. 542), a plexus of fibrils which communicate with one another and, probabty also vdth fibres derived from the sj^mpathetic. Their peculiar arrangement makes it likely that they serve The plexuses show stellate enlargements here and there which are thought by Dogiel to be nerve-cells. the same purpose as do the sensory spiral fibres which surround the muscle-fibres in muscle- spindles ; just as contraction of the muscle-spindle puts the sensory fibre on the stretch and so stimulates it, so here dilatation of the blood-vessels may bring about a stimulation of the peri- vascular plexus. DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS. The first vessels which appear in the ovum are formed in the mesoderm, and development subsequently goes on in the same layer and in its derivatives in all parts of the animal body. New vessels, also, are formed in the healing of wounds, in the restoration of lost parts, and in the production of adventitious growths. The first vessels of the embryo, both of the chick and mammal, are formed in the vascular area, and originate from some of the cells of the mesoderm in that