VESSELS AND NEEVES 555 on its posterior surface. One of the three bands is placed along the attached border of the colon ; another runs along the border which, in the transverse colon, corresponds with the attachment of the great omentum ; whilst the third band is equidistant from the other two. Near the course of this third band most of the appendices epiploicse are attached (fig. 807, a). Measured from end to end, these three bands are shorter than the intervening parts of the tube, so that the latter are thrown into sacculations; when the bands are removed by dissection the sacculi are entirely effaced on distending the colon, which becomes longer and assumes a cylindrical form. The transverse constrictions seen on the exterior of the intestine, between the sacculi, appear on the inside as sharp ridges separating the cells, and are composed of all the coats. In the vermiform appendix the longitudinal muscular fibres are disposed in a uniform layer. The circular muscular fibres form only a thin layer over the general surface of the caecum and colon, but are accumulated in large numbers between the sacculi. In the rectum, especially towards its lower part, the circular fibres form a thicker layer, and around the anal canal they become developed into a sphincter muscle, some 4 mm. thick, which is termed the internal sphincter of the anus. The submucous or areolar coat resembles in all respects that of the small intestine. The mucous membrane differs from that of th smooth and destitute of villi. Viewed with a lens, its surface is seen to be marked all over by the orifices of numerous tubular glands {crypts of Lieherhuhn) (fig. 808 and Plate), resembling those of the small intestine, but longer and more numerous, and further distinguished from them by the large number of mucus-secreting cells which they contain. In some animals all the cells of these glands may be found to be mucus-secreting ; in others every alternate cell presents this character, the cells between being of the ordinary columnar kind. The glands occur in all parts of the large intestine except in a narrow zone at the lowest end of the rectum near the continuation of the columnar epithelium of the gut into the stratified epithelium of the anus. The epithelium covering the general surface of the mucous membrane is of the columnar kind, in every respect similar to that of the small intestine, except that there are many more goblet-cells. As in the stomach the mucous membrane consists of areolar con- nective tissue with a certain amount of reticular tissue, and is bounded next the submucous coat by a layer of plain muscular fibres {muscularis mucosce), which sends prolongations up between the glands to be attached to the basement-membrane near the surface, in the same way as in the small intestine. Vessels and Nerves.—In the large intestine an arrangement of capillary plexuses and venous radicles obtains, similar to that which has been described in the stomach (fig. 809). At the lower end of the rectum the blood-vessels have a general longitudinal arrangement in the submucous coat. In the anal canal they lie in longitudinal folds of the mucous membrane and freely anastomose laterally. The veins here are large. Beginning in small dilatations at the lower end, they pass upwards for about three inches in the submucosa, and, freely communicating small intestine in being ft Fig. 809.—Blood-vessels of LAKGE INTESTINE AS SEEN IN VEKTICAL SECTION. (Koliiker.) a, artery passing up from submucosa; c, vein arising from capillary plexus, h, which surrounds the mouths of the glands.