571 LYMPHATICS Nerve-fibrils have been seen passing to the cells and terminating amongst them (fig. 834) and even within them.' Xiymphatics.—Although the lymph of the liver has not the same relation- ship to its cells as obtains with other glands, there is no lack of lymphatics either in the connective tissue of the capsule of Glisson, or in that which accompanies the tributaries of the hepatic veins, and a large amount of lymph is formed in the liver and passes out from it by both sets of vessels. It can, however, only enter these vessels at the periphery of the lobules (where they communicate with one another), for, contrary to what is generally believed and taught, no lymph-vessels penetrate into the lobule. The descriptions given of lymph-spaces surrounding capil- G ^ Fig. 834.—Plexus of nebve-fibrii.s within a hepatic lobule of the pigeon. (Korolkow.) Methylene-blue method. a a, axis-cylinders of nerve-fibres, passing between the cell-trabeculae of the lobule, c ; b b, fibrils ramifying over the cells of the trabeculae. laries within the lobule are due to a misinterpretation of injected preparations ; as a matter of fact there is no interval between the blood-channels and hepatic cells.^ The lymphatics which pass out by the portal fissure are joined by a considerable lymph-vessel from the gall-bladder. The connective-tissue capsule of the liver appears to be devoid of lymphatics, but an efierent vessel passes round from the portal fissure into the suspensory ligament and conveys part of the lymph of the organ towards the diaphragm. Bile-ducts and g'all-bladder.—The branches of the bile-duct within the capsule of Glisson are formed of a basement-membrane lined with clear columnar cells. The hepatic duct has in addition a coat composed of fibrous and plain muscular tissue running circularly, and this is also the structure of the cystic duct and of the common bile-duct. The larger branches of the bile-ducts within the ^ Korolkow, Anat. Anz. viii. 1893. See also A. B. Macallum, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xxvii. 1887 ; H. J. Berkley, Anat. Anz. viii. 1893 ; Allegra, Anat. Anz. xxv. 1904. 2 See on the lymphatics of the liver Herring and Simpson {op. cit.). Full reference to the literature of the subject will be found in their paper.