268 N1<]RVE-KNWN(JS occur in masses of from twenty to eighty corpuscles imbedded in the fat of the ball of the foot and also in the interosseous space between the radius and ulna, and between the tibia and fibula. They are found in individuals of all ages. The figure of these corpuscles is oval, somewhat like that of a grain of wheat— regularly oval in the cat, but mostly curved or reniform in man, and sometimes a good deal distorted. Their mean size in the adult is from 1| to 2| mm. long, and about half as broad. They have a whitish, opaline aspect : in the cat’s mesentery they are usually more transparent, and then a white line may be dis- tinguished in the centre. A slender stalk or peduncle attaches the corpuscle to the branch of nerve with which it is connected. The peduncle contains a single medullated nerve-fibre ensheathed in perineurium, with connective tissue and one or more fine blood-vessels ; it joins the corpuscle at or near one end, and conducts the nerve-fibre into it. The corpuscle itself, ex- amined under the micro- scope, is found to have a distinct lamellar structure (figs. 421, 422). It con- sists, in fact, of numerous concentric membranous tunics encasing each other like the coats of an onion. Surrounded by these tunics, and occu- formed of transparent and seemingly homo- geneous soft substance, along; the middle of which the prolongation of the nerve-fibre runs. The number of tunics is various; from forty to sixty may be counted in large corpuscles. Those which are situated next to the core, and compre- hending about half of the entire number, are thinner and more closely arranged than the exterior ones, seeming to form a system by themselves, which gives rise to a white streak often distinguishable along the middle of the corpuscles when seen on a dark ground. Outside of all, the corpuscle has a coating of ordinary connective tissue. The lamellae or tunics correspond very closely in structure to the lamellae of the perineurium of a nerve. Each lamella (fig. 423) consists of a connective-tissue layer formed both of white fibres, which have mostly a transverse direction and are placed near its surfaces (6), and of elastic fibres, which pass in various directions, and (with occasional bands of white fibres) stretch across the thickness of the lamella from one surface to the other (c). Each surface of a lamella is covered with endothelial cells (a), which can be brought to view with nitrate of silver, and then their continuity with the similar cells in the perineurium is made manifest (fig. 424). The tissue of each lamella is lax as compared with that of the pying a cylindrical space in the middle of the corpuscle, is the core. Fig. 422.—Transverse section op a Pacinian corpuscle. (Szynionowicz.) e, one of the layers of epithelioid cells bounding the tunics; n, nucleus of an epithelioid cell. The axis-cylinder is seen in the centre; around this the core; then the closely arranged inner tunics; outside these and forming the greatest part of the thick- ness of the corpuscle, the more open outer tunics.