551 VESSELS OF SMALL INTESTINE each villus as a rule receives its own small arterial branch. The venules arise near the surface of the mucous membrane and near the tips of the villi, and, gathering up the blood of the capillaries as they pass along, go straight through the muscularis mucoste to enter a close venous plexus in the submucosa. This plexus also receives most of the venules from the muscular coat, and from it proceed efferent vessels which accompany the entering arterial branches towards the surface, where they run underneath the peritoneal coat towards the mesentery. Xiympli-vessels.—The lymph-vessels of the small intestine—termed lacteals, from the milky appearance of their contents (chyle) during the absorption of food containing fat—are arranged in four networks, one in the mucosa, one in the sub- mucosa, one between the two layers of the muscular coat, and the fourth underneath the serous coat. The vessels which form the network of the mucosa are mainly or Fig. 804.—Vertical section of a portion of a patch of Peyer’s glands with the lacteal VESSELS INJECTED. (After Frey.) Magnified 32 diameters. The specimen is from the lower part of the ileum; a, villi, with their lacteals left white; h, some of the tubular glands; c, the muscular layer of the mucous membrane interrupted by the lymph-nodules; cl, cupola or projecting part of the nodule; e, central part; f, the reticulated lacteal vessels occupying the lymphoid tissue between the nodules, joined above by the lacteals from the villi and mucous surface, and passing below into g, the sinus-like lacteals under the follicles, which again pass into the large efferent lacteals, g'; i, part of the muscular coat. entirely destitute of valves. They receive the lacteals of the villi (fig. 804), and are in communication with the network of larger valved vessels of the submucosa ; the communication being especially free in the neighbourhood of the lymph-nodules which break through the muscularis mucosae and are almost surrounded by sinus- hke lymph-vessels. From the network in the submucosa efferent valved vessels pass through the muscular layers, receiving as they pass the lymph from the intra- muscular network, and enter the subserous network. This, which is especially well developed at the attachment of the mesentery, conveys the lymph to the lacteals in the mesentery, which closely accompany the ramifications of the arteries and veins. These lacteals enter the large mesenteric glands near the back of the mesentery, and the efferent vessels from these glands convey the chyle to the receptaculum chyli and thoracic duct. Besides the main lymphatic network between the two layers of the muscular coat (fig. 805), there are subsidiary networks within the layers, the vessels running in ^ See on the blood-vessels of the small intestine F. P. Mall, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. .\i. 1900.