33 NUCLEUS in the cell-protoplasm and may be formed within this(fe novo and not necessarily by the division of an existing centrosome. Nevertheless the latter is the ordinary method of production of centrosomes, and in most cells the centrosome, if not the eentriole, is to bo regarded as a permanent organ. THE STRUCTURE OP THE CELL-NUCLEUS. The cell-nucleus, in the so-called ‘ resting ^ {i.e. non-dividing) condition, is a spherical, ellipsoidal (fig. 62), annular (fig. fit) or irregularly shaped body (fig. 63), usually single, sometimes double (fig. 45), and rarely multiple (fig. 64), occupying a position in the cell which is generally near the centre, but may be altogether to one side; or near one end of an elongated cell. The nucleus consists essentially of two parts, viz. : (1) of a formed material, the karyomitome, which usually takes the shape (a) of threads disposed to form a network or spongework throughout its substance and (/5) of a membrane bounding it superficially and separating it from the cytoplasm ; (2) of a formless substance, the karyoflasm, clear and apparently structureless in the living condition, which occupies the meshes of the network and re- sembles the clear material of the cytoplasm. The relation of these substances to one another is similar to that of the spongio- plasm and hyaloplasm of the cell-protoplasm. That the hyaloplasm is of a similar nature in both nucleus and protoplasm is obvious from the similarity of their behaviour to staining reagents and from the fact that when, in the dividing cell, the membrane Fig. G4.—Giant-cell with multiple nucleus and many centhi- p , i i oLEs FROM LYMPH-GLAND OF RABBIT. (M. Heideiiliain.) nucleus disappears, the karyoplasm is in full continuity with and is indistinguishable from the hyaloplasm of the cell- substance. Chemically the karyomitome is largely composed of nuclein, containing VOL. II. PART I. D Fig. 62.—Nucleus from a cell of THE intestinal EPITHELIUM OF A YOUNG SALAMANDER LARVA. (M. Heidenhain.) Magnified 2300 diameters. The membrane and network of basi-chromatin (karyomitome) with enlargements (pseudonncleoli) at the nodes of the network are stained. Two nucleoli are seen.