SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. Synovial membranes are connective-tissue membranes which are found surrounding closed cavities in connexion with movable structures in certain parts, such as the joints, the elongated sheaths in which some tendons glide, and at various situations between the skin and bony prominences below it. Synovial membranes are distinguished by the nature of their secretion, which is not lymph, like that moistening the serous membranes, but a viscid glairy fluid resembling the white of an egg and named synovia. From its nature it is well adapted for diminishing friction and thereby facilitating motion. If a drop of synovial fluid is examined microscopically, it is found to contain (in addition to fat-molecules) a few amoeboid corpuscles (leucocytes), as well as detached cells similar to those which occur on the projections of the membrane. The different synovial membranes of the body are referred to three classes, viz. articular, vaginal, and vesicular. 1. Articular synovial memhranes, or synovial capsules of joints.—These by their secretion lubricate the cavities of the diarthrodial articulations—^that is, those articulations in which the opposed surfaces glide on each other. In these cases the membrane may be readily seen covering internally the surface of the capsular and other ligaments which bound the cavity of the joint, Fig. 622,—Haveesian fkinges seen at the edge of a fold of synovial membkane. (Hammar.) a, free surface of the membrane with long and short villi (V), some of the shorter villi being free from cells; h, portion of membrane closely packed with cells; h,' h,' portions without cells. and affording also an investment to any tendons or ligaments which pass through the articular cavity, as in the instance of the long tendon of the biceps muscle in the shoulder-joint. On approaching the articular cartilages the membrane does not pass over them, but terminates after advancing but a little way on their surface, with which it is here firmly adherent. The synovial membranes, therefore, do not form closed bags lying between the articular cartilages, as was supposed by the older anatomists, for the main part of the surfaces of the joints is not covered at all by the membrane, nor even by a layer of epithelium-cells, prolonged from the membrane, as some have described. In several of the joints, folds of the synovial membrane pass across the cavity ; these have been called synovial ligaments. Other processes of the membrane simply project into the cavity at various points. These are very generally cleft into fringes at their free border (fig. 622), upon which their blood-vessels, which are numerous, are densely distributed. The larger folds and processes often contain fat, and then are sufficiently obvious ; but many of the folds are small and inconspicuous. The fringed vascular folds of the synovial membrane were described by Havers in 1691, under the name of the mucilaginous glands; he regarded them as an apparatus for secreting synovia. Rainey found that these Haversian fringes, as they are sometimes called, may exist in all kinds of synovial membrane, and that from the primary vascular fringes other smaller secondary processes are sent off, into which no blood-vessels enter. 2. Vaginal synovial memhranes, or synovial sheaths.—These are adapted to facilitate the motion of tendons as they glide in the fibrous sheaths which bind them down against the bones in various situations. The best-marked examples of such fibrous sheaths are to be seen in the hand and foot, and especially on the palmar aspect of the digital phalanges, where they confine the long tendons of the flexor muscles. In such instances one part of the synovial membrane forms a lining to the osseo-fibrous tube in which the tendon runs, and another part affords a close investment to the tendon. The space between these portions of the membrane is lubricated