SMALL INTESTINE 552 the connective tissue between the muscular bundles. These vessels of the muscular coat are in complete continuity on the one side with those of the submucosa, and on the other with those of the subserous layer. XTerves.—The nerves of the small intestine are chiefly derived from the superior mesenteric plexus, which is formed by branches from the lower part of the coeliac plexus and the superior mesenteric ganglion, and also receives fibres from the right vagus nerve at its junction with the cceliac plexus. Most of its sym- pathetic fibres are originally derived from the great and small splanchnic nerves, which convey both motor and inhibitory impulses to the blood-vessels of the in- testine, and others—mainly inhibitory—to the muscular coat, excitatory influences passing to this mainly by the vagi. The branches from the plexus to the intestine at first closely accompany the larger branches of the mesenteric vessels ; they ramify along with these and communicate with one another in a plexiform manner. As they approach the intestine they leave the blood-vessels and pass to the gut Fig. 805.—Lymphatic plexus (1) and nervous plexus (m) in the muscular coat of the INTESTINE. (Auerbach.) in numerous branches. These at first penetrate the longitudinal layer of muscle and enter the gangliated plexus (plexus myentericus of Auerbach) (fig. 805, and A on accompanying Plate) which is there present ; from it branches are distributed to the muscular fibres of both layers. Other larger branches pierce the circular layer of muscle, and in the submucosa enter the gangliated plexus of Meissner (see B on accompanying Plate). The minute structure of these gangliated plexuses has already been described (p. 227). From the plexus of Meissner some fibres are distributed to the muscularis mucosce; others pierce this and join a fine nerve-plexus throughout the substance of the mucous membrane and within the villi (fig. 806). Some authors state that nerve- fibres can be traced from this plexus amongst the columnar epithelium-cells. The following papers on the minute anatomy of the intestine may also be mentioned : H. J. Berkley, Anat. Anz. viii. 1893 (nerve-endings) ; Bizzozero, Anat. Anz. iii. 1888 (glands), Ramon y Cajal, Sistema nerviosa, 1899 (nerve-endings); N. Czermach, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlii. 1893 (lymph-nodules) ; Griinhagen, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxix. 1887 (fat-absorption) ; R. Heidenhain, Pfliiger’s Arch, xliii. (sup])l.), 1888 ; Krehl, Arch. f. Anat. 1890 (fat-absorption); Kuczynski, Intern. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, vii. 1890 (Brunner's glands) ; F. P. Mall,