621 SPERMATOGENESIS as soon as those which are fully formed (and which usually occupy the lumen of the tubule) are discharged. The spermatocytes are formed from the spermatogonia by ordinary mitosis, but in the formation of spermatids from spermatocytes there are at least two successive divisions, neither of which are of the ordinary type of mitosis, but are respectively hetero- and homo- typical (see pp. 51 and 52). At the final division the number of chromosomes in each cell is reduced to one-half. The process of transformation of spermatids into spermatozoa (figs. 903, 904) consists in the accumulation of the chromatin of the nucleus at one pole of the cell to form the head of the spermatozoon, and the outgrowth of a filament from the (double) centrosome to form the tail filament of the spermatozoon, the rest of the cell becoming partially atrophied ^ and transformed into the middle piece of the spermatozoon. These changes are known collectively as spermatogenesis. In their course the developing spermatozoa become grouped together into bundles with the head end of each directed towards the membrane of the tubule ; these ends become imbedded in an enlarged lining cell known as a cell of Sertoli. Through this the Fig. 904.—The earlieb changes in the spebmatids in the coubse oe fobmation op the SPEBMATOZOA. (Niessing.) The tail-filament is seen (in a and e) to extend from the centrosome, which lies close to the nucleus. The head-cap (shown in e) is produced by a transformation of part of the archoplasm which becomes vacuolated (&, c, d). developing spermatozoa appear to derive nutriment (fig. 905). But as the trans- formation into fully formed spermatozoa proceeds the heads of the spermatozoa become gradually shifted further from the membrane of the tubule, this being apparently efiected by a growth in length of the cells of Sertoli. Eventually the spermatozoa become set free from these cells and then lie wholly within the lumen of the tubule. These changes in the form and arrangement of the developing spermatozoa give a streaked appearance to the epithelium of the tubule when seen in section. While these changes in the spermatids are proceeding, the spermatocytes are at the same time undergoing mitotic division to form a new crop of spermatids, so that a constant series of changes is being produced in the ’ Some of it may be thrown off and the granules within the cells set free as the ‘ seminal granules.’