501 DEVELOPMENT and abrasion of the cement, a deposition of dentinal matter is liable to be formed on the inner surface of the dentine, exactly corresponding in position and extent with the area occupied by the central ends of the exposed tubules. Many of the affected tubules become subsequently filled up by a deposit of hard matter within them, so that on section both the secondary dentine and the corresponding part of the primary dentine appear clearer and more transparent than the remainder of the dentinal substance (see fig. 731). When the surface-injury has been considerable, the dentine of repair is largely in excess, and may in such cases completely fill up the pulp-cavity.- Development of the Teeth (figs. 732 to 739).-—The first trace of the teeth appears during the sixth week of intra-uterine life (in embryos of 11 mm. to 12 mm. long) in the form of a longitudinal thickening of the epithelium of the mouth along the line of the future jaw. The thickening in question is produced by multiplication of the deeper-lying cells of the epithelium, and in some animals, e.g. ruminants, is marked by a prominence raised above the general level of the epithelial surface (fig. 738). The ectodermic thickening grows into the mesoderm as a solid longitudinal strand of cells, at first semi-cylindrical in section, and Fig. 730.—Section of the fang of a tooth showing DENTINE AND CEMENT TOGETHER WITH THE DENTAL PERIOSTEUM. (Rose.) Magnified 200 diameters. a, nests of epithelial cells within the dental periosteum which are the remains of the epithelial sheath of Hertwig ; h, osteoblasts which have formed the cement; c, lacuna of the cement; f7, granular layer of the dentine ; e, dentine. Fig. 731.—Longitudinal'sec- tion OF INCISOR TOOTH SHOW- ING DENTINE OP REPAIR. (Salter.) Slightly magnified. d, d', denuded surfaces of dentine; r, r', corresponding deposits of secondary dentine. Two or three incremental lines are observed in the dentine. lying in a sort of gutter or deep groove formed in the mesoderm to receive it; there is to begin with no indication of the formation of separate teeth. The strand in question is the 'primitive dental lamina (fig. 732, 1): it is also known as the ‘ common enamel-germ,’ because part of it is concerned in the production of the enamel of the teeth. But the lamina is not merely a dental germ, for before long (embryo of 17 mm., or seventh week) it is found that the originally simple strand of cells separates longitudinally into two. One of these, the outer, or labial, which dijis vertically into the embryonic jaw, becomes hollowed out from the surface to form the labio-dental furrow (fig. 733, d.Z./.), and may accordingly be termed the lahio-dental ^ In animals other kinds of dentine are found; for a description of these, and other details regarding the structure and development of the teeth of vertebrates, the student is referred to special works on the subject, such as the ‘ Manual of Dental Anatomy,’ by C. S. Tomes, and the ‘ Histology and Patho-histology of the Teeth,’ by A. Hopewell-Smith. * The following account of the development of the teeth is largely based upon tlie description given by Rose in Dental Cosmos.