190 MUSCLE The account given in the text of muscle-structure and of the changes which it hndergoes in contraction is founded upon a re-investigation by the author ‘ of the structure of muscle, and especially of the muscles of insects, prepared by various methods, but chiefly that of Rollett. Muscle-nuclei.—In connexion with the cross-striated substance a number of clear oval nuclei are found in the fibres. In mammalian muscles they lie mostly upon the inner surface of the sarcolemma (figs. 266, 273), but in frogs they are distributed through the substance of the fibre, and in many insects they form a longitudinal series situated in the middle of the fibre. Associated with and sur- rounding them there is a certain amount of protoplasm, not always clearly dis- tinguishable. In the unaltered condition the nuclei are not easily seen, but they are made conspicuous by the addition of acid. They contain a network of chromatin, in which one or two nucleoli are generally visible ; frequently the chromatin of the nucleus i^ in the form of a spiral filament, and the nuclei themselves may be spirally contorted. It has been suggested that this is caused by a spiral contraction of the fibrils. The nuclei are found in considerable numbers at the tendinous attachments of the muscle-fibres, and are also found in a granular protoplasmic layer at the place where the motor nerve ends in the fibre (see p. 256).- Variations of structure in different muscles, correlated with differences of function.—In the rabbit, as pointed out by Kanvier ^ and Krause, certain of the voluntary muscles present difierences in appearance and mode of action from the rest. Thus while most of the voluntary muscles have a pale aspect and contract energetically when stimulated, some, such as the semi-tendinosus and the soleus in the lower limb, are at once distinguished by their deep red colour as well as by their slow and prolonged contraction when stimulated. When subj ected to microscopical examination it is found that in the red muscles the fibres are more distinctly striated longitudinally and the transverse striae are more irregular than usual. The muscular fibres are generally finer (thinner) than those of the ordinary muscles, and have a larger amount of sarcoplasm. The nuclei are more numerous and are not confined to the inner surface of the sarcolemma, but occur scattered in the thickness of the fibre as well. There is also a difference in the blood-supply of the two kinds of muscle, to be afterwards alluded to. A similar difference between red and pale muscles may be also seen in the rays amongst fishes. In other animals the distinction is not found as regards whole muscles, although it ma}’' affect individual fibres of a muscle. This is the case, as shown by Klein, in the diaphragm, in which in many of the fibres there are numerous nuclei, and these are imbedded in protoplasm (sarcoplasm), which forms an almost continuous layer underneath the sarcolemma. The distribution of the two kinds of fibres in different muscles has been especially investigated by Griitzner.‘‘ In the fin-mnscles of Hippocampus the quantity of sarcoplasm is very considerable in proportion to the muscle-fibrils, which are collected into lamellar bundles (sarcostjdes) separated from the sarcolemma and from one another by a large amount of sarcoplasm. Certain muscles of the bat also contain a relatively large quantity of sarcoplasm, which may perhaps bear some relationship to prolonged activity on the part of the muscles in question.^ Mode of attachment of muscular fibres : ending- of muscle in tendon. When a muscle ends in a tendon it is found that the muscular fibres either run in the same direction as the tendon-bundles or join with the tendon at an acute angle. 1 Int. Monthly Journ. Anat. and Physiol, viii. 1891 ; and Proc. Roy. Soc. xlix. 1891, p. 280. For details regarding the extensive literature of the subject, up to 1898, see M. Heidenhain, Ergebn. d. Anat. viii. ^ On the nuclei of striated muscle, see A. B. Macallum, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc. 1887. ^ Compt. rend. civ. and cvii. 1887 and 1889. ‘ Recueil Zool. Suisse, 1884. ’ Rollett, Arch. f. inikr. Anat. xxxii. 1888 ; Sitzungsb. d. Wiener Akad. xcviii. 1889.