514 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH advanced considerably in development, the same changes once more occur and give rise to the sac and papilla of the wisdom-tooth (third year). The subsequent development of the permanent molar teeth takes place within their sacs just like that of the other teeth. In exceptional in- stances, a fourth molar may be formed in like manner in a further backward extension of the dental lamina. After all the teeth of the second dentition are thus formed, the dental lamina generally ceased to form more special enamel-germs, and gradually atrophies in the manner already described. But in rare instances a third series'of germs make their appearance postero-lateral to the teeth of the second dentition, and a third complete series of teeth may result therefrom. Calcification begins first in the anterior permanent molar teeth. Its order and periods may be thus stated ; First molar, one cusp shows calcification at birth, the rest soon after birth ; central incisor, lateral incisor, and canine, about six months after birth, the central incisor first, the canine last; bicuspids, two years or more ; second molar, two years ; third molar or wisdom-tooth, about twelve years. Historical.—The first consistent account of the development of the teeth was given by Goodsir {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1838), who described the appearance of a groove in the mucous membrane of the jaw, the formation of special depressions in this groove corresponding to the milk-teeth, the appearance of papillae within these, the enclosure of the papillae within follicles covered by membrane, and finally the time and mode of eruption of the several teeth. Goodsir’s results, which, so far as they went, were accurate, were obtained from specimens which had been badly preserved, and in which the epithelium, which is now regarded as the important element in tooth-formation, had become detached in consequence of maceration. The views of Goodsir prevailed until 1863, when Kolliker (Gewehelehre) clearly showed the important part taken by the ingrowing of the rete mucosum of the epithelium in the formation both of the common and of the special enamel-germs. This had been already pointed out by Marcusen {Bull, de VAcad, de PMershourg, 1849) and by Huxley (in fishes and reptiles, Quar. Jour, of Micr. Sci. 1853), but was nevertheless not generally accepted. Kolliker’s results were confirmed and extended by the work of Waldeyer, Kollmann, Magitot, C. S. Tomes, and others. Baume first pointed out the independent origin of the teeth of succession from the common dental lamina ; previous observers had followed Kolliker (and Goodsir) in ascribing the origin of their germs to the special germs of the milk-teeth. Pouchet and Chabry were the first to describe the common origin of the labio-dental furrow and the common dental lamina. Finally, the most important details regarding the origin of the human teeth are to be met with in the works of Magitot and Legros and of Rose. Rose’s account' is based upon sections of the jaw of embryos of various ages, from which he has constructed models showing several stages of development in a strikingly objective form ; figures of some of these models have here been reproduced. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxviii. 1891. Other papers by Rose, as well as the literature of the subject up to 1896, are given in the 10th edition of this work.