THE ALIMENTAEY SYSTEM The alimentary system comprises the mouth with the tongue and teeth and salivary glands, the pharynx with the tonsils, the gullet, the stomach, the small intestine with the pancreas and liver, and the large intestine. In continuity and in close morphological relation with the alimentary system is the respiratory system, including the nostrils, the larynx, trachea and bronchi, and the lungs; the last are developed much in the same way as the glands which pour their secretions into the alimentary canal, such as the salivary glands and pancreas. The description of the structure of the nasal passages may conveniently precede that of the alimentary canal; the remainder of the respiratory system will be described afterwards. THE NASAL PASSAGES. BXucous membrane of the nasal passag^es.—This membrane, also known as the Schneiderian or pituitary membrane, is very intimately attached to the periosteum and perichondrium of the bones and cartilages of the nose, the con- nexion being; however, closer in some parts than in others. It is thick and highly Fig. 702.—Section of the mucous membbane of the olfactoey eegion. (Cadiat.) a, epithelium ; h, glands of Bowman ; c, nerve-bundles. vascular, especially over the turbinate bones and septum; thinner and less vascular in other parts of the nasal fossae, and thinnest in the cavities which communicate with the nasal fossae, where it also has fewest vessels. Except over the uppermost turbinate and the corresponding part of the septum the nasal mucous membrane is covered with ciliated epithelium. Between the cells of this are seen the orifices of numerous small racemose mucous glands, which themselves lie in the deeper part of the membrane. These glands are most numerous in the middle and back parts of the fossae, and largest near the floor. Bundles of plain muscular fibres lie around the gland alveoli in some parts, especially where the membrane is thickest; the muscle-bundles partly encircle the venous plexuses which here lie under the mucous membrane (Klein). In the uppermost part of the fossae (olfactory region) the membrane has a yellowish colour and is covered by non-ciliated columnar cells, between which lie the olfactory cells, which give origin to the olfactory nerve-fibres (see pp. 288, 289). This olfactory part of the membrane contains glands of a different nature from those in the remaining or respiratory part. In place of mucous glands we here find glands with comparatively large alveoli and granular yellowish cells, which yield a