325 LYMPH-VESSELS OF PIEAKT contains a far more complex lymphatic system. The superficial plexus lies close under the endothelial membrane, being separated from the latter by only a few connective-tissue bundles; it is close-meshed and composed of fine lymph-vessels, and by short branches is in free communication with a second more deeply placed network built up of much larger vessels. The whole of the endo- cardium is also very rich in lymphatics; that of the papillary muscles especially so. There are more lymphatics in the ventricles than in the auricles, and those of the latter extend even as far as the middle of the atrioventricular valves. By ill] ecting living hearts, and allmving the heart to distribute the injection-mass by its own activity, Albrecht (quoted by Bock) showed that lymph-vessels pass from the interfascicular con- nective-tissue lymphatics to the intervals between the muscle- cells, where they form inter- muscular capillaries ; and Bock— by first kneading the warm heart Fig- 502.—Section op myocabdium with blood-vessels IT, 11 (bed), and lymphatic vessels (blue) injected. in normal saline to remove all (Bock.) blood, then injecting the blood- vessels with carmine-gelatine through the coronary arteries, and finally filling the lymph-vessels from near the apex of the heart by means of puncture with Prussian blue—proved that lymph-vessels form as complete a plexus as do the blood-capillaries. Blood- and lymph-capillaries lie usually very close together in the interstices between the muscle-cells (fig. 502), running parallel with one another and occupying the spaces between neighbouring heart-cells, so that each capillary comes in close relation with several cell-units of heart-muscle, and each cell-unit with several capillaries. The lymphatics of the heart are closed vessels lined through- out by endothelium. This is denied by Nystrom,^ but Golgi’s method, which he employed, will occasionally be found to have impreg- nated the whole of the lymph, whether contained in definite lymph - vessels or distributed in tissue clefts. Nystrom (fig. 503) figures intracellular channels re- sembling those found in nerve-cells or liver-cells ; this he interprets to indicate that each muscle-cell may have developed special intracellular channels for the ready interchange of fluids and substances in solution. Nerves.—Three distinct systems are to be distinguished in the heart—namely, (1) efferent nerves which terminate in the cardiac ganglia or in the myocardium, (2) nerves which arise in the heart and pass to the cord, and (3) a sympathetic ‘ Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol. Anat. Abtheil. 1897, p. 3G1. Fig. 503.—Section of musculature of pig’s heart. Golgi method. (Nystrom.) The preparation shows intermuscular clefts connected with canaliculi which appear to lead from the interior of the muscle- fibres.