FALLOPIAN TUBE 659 u u 2 the uterus by a very small aperture, but in most of its extent the lumen of the tube is larger, varying in different parts from 2 mm. to 8 mm. Each tube has a strong muscular wall with both longitudinal and circular fibres of plain muscle and a thick mucous membrane, which is thrown into permanent longi- tudinal folds (fig. 955). There are no glands in its mucous membrane and very few elastic fibres. The tube is lined throughout by ciliated epithelium. The cilia cause a current towards the uterus. The two tubes maybe regarded as fused at their lower ends to form the (median) uterus. In many animals each tube is directly continued into one half of a double uterus (uterus bicornis). Externally the tube is covered by peritoneum except along its attachment to the broad ligament; at its open fimbriated end the serous endothelium comes into direct relation and continuity with the ciliated epithelium of the tube and its fimbriae. Between the peritoneal coat and the muscular layer is loose connective tissue; in this the blood-vessels and nerves are conducted to the wall of the tube. Fig. 955.—Transverse section of Fallopian tube, showing folded mucous membrane AND well-developed INTERNAL CIRCULAR AND LESS WELL-MARKED EXTERNAL LONGITUDINAL MUSCULAR LAYERS. (F. H. A. Marshall.j The muscular coat is strongest at the uterine end, the mucous membrane thickest near the fimbriated end. Ballantyne and Williams' have described a second thin layer of longitudinal fibres within the circular layer. As in the uterus, there is no sharp limitation between the muscular layer and the mucous membrane, and the larger part of the muscular layer must probably be regarded as a much thickened muscularis mucosae. The folds or plicae of the mucous membrane have secondary folds upon them in the ampullary part of the tube : the deep furrows between these have sometimes been described as glands, but although true glands appear to be absent, the increase of surface which the folds represent is probably connected with the secreting function of the mucous membrane. Although the lining membrane of the tube is termed a mucous membrane, it is stated that its secretion contains no mucus and even little or no protein.'^ ^ Brit. Med. Journ. 1891. ^ Bond, Lancet, ii. 1899 (in rabbit). ^ J. Thomson Sherlaw, Brit. Med. Journ. ii. 1908.