NERVE-ENDINGS 280 in the middle and tapering to the ends. They vary greatly in number in different muscles, being fairly numerous in some, few in others, such as the eye-muscles, whilst in yet others their presence has not been detected. They are found in most if not in all vertebrates imbedded in the depths of the muscle-substance, and lying parallel with its fibres. They are more numerous in the limb-muscles than in those of the trunk, and in the distal than in the proximal part of the limb (Sherrington): most occur near the middle of a muscle.' They vary greatly in size, the extremes being from 0*75 mm. to 4 mm. in length and 0*08 mm. to 0‘2 mm. in cross-section. Each is enclosed by a lamellated connective-tissue sheath, continuous externally with the intramuscular areolar tissue, and becoming somewhat looser towards the centre, where a lymphatic space (periaxial space) surrounds the muscle-fibres of the spindle : this space is bridged across by connective tissue here and there and by the entering nerve-fibres. Running through the axis of the spindle is the intrafusal bundle of muscle-fibres. These are much finer than the ordinary muscle-fibres, having, in fact, somewhat the appearance of embryonic muscle, and like this showing- more numerous nuclei, especially near the middle of the spindle, and rather more protoplasm than the ordinary muscle-fibres. Moreover, each is found to split for the most part into two, at a short distance d a Fig. 444.—An annulo-spiral ENDING OF INTRAFUSAL FIBRE. Methylene-blue preparation. (Dogiel.) Highly magnified. Fig. 445.—Ending of nerye-fibrks in a muscle-spindle. (Ruffini.) n, nerve-fibres passing to spindle; a, annular ending of axis- cylinders; s, spiral endings; d, dendritic endings; sh, connective- tissue sheath of spindle. from the proximal end of the spindle, so that the middle and distal ends appear to contain more fibres than the proximal end. At these ends they pass into tendon- bundles, which are either continued into the intramuscular tissue or, if near the tendinous attachment of the muscle, into the tendon of the muscle itself.- The nerve-fibres of the spindle are large medullated fibres, usually three or four in number (fig. 443). They divide on reaching the spindle and pass into the ^ These tendons frequently contain Golgi-organs (Sherrington). ^ Gregor, Arch. f. Anat. 1904.