153 PERIOSTEUM termed tlie ‘ decussating fibres ’ were also first described by him, although their existence was long denied by other histologists.' The periosteum, as already stated, is a fibrous membrane which covers the bones externally. It adheres to them very firmly, and invests every part of their surface, except where they are covered with cartilage. It is composed of two layers ; the outer, consisting chiefly of white fibres, and containing occasional fat-cells, is the means of supporting numerous blood-vessels destined for the bone, which ramify in the membrane, and at length send their minute branches into the Haversian canals of the compact substance, accompanied by processes of filamentous tissue derived from, or at least continuous with, the periosteum. The inner layer is largely made up of elastic fibres, frequently in several distinct strata.^ Between it and the proper osseous tissue there is a fibrous stratum containing in the young bone a number of angular or cubical cells (osteo- blasts), while in the adult bone these have become flattened out into an epithelium- like layer covering the osseous substance, and are in many places separated by a cleft-like space (serving probably for the passage of lymph) from the rest of the periosteum.^ By treating the membrane with nitrate of silver, lymphatics are discovered in it accompanying the blood-vessels in the outer layer ; and, as in other aponeurotic structures, extensive epithelioid cell-markings, covering a great part of the surface, are brought into view. Fine nerves spread out in the periosteum ; they are partly associated with the arteries, and along these enter the subjacent bone ; but others are for the mem- brane itself. Some of these end in Pacinian corpuscles, others in arborescent terminations. The chief use of the periosteum is to support the vessels going to the bone, and afford them a bed in which they may subdivide into fine branches, and so enter the dense tissue at numerous points. Hence, when the periosteum is stripped off at any part, there is risk that the denuded portion of the bone will die and exfoliate. The periosteum also serves to give purchase to the tendons and hgaments where they are fixed to bones. Its relation to the growth and renewal of bone will be referred to later on. The marrow {medulla ossium) is lodged in the interior of the bones ; it fills up the hollow shaft in the long bones, where it is of a yellow colour and largely formed of fat, and it occupies the cavities of the cancellated structure, where it is usually of a red colour and contains but little fat; it extends also into the Haversian canals —at least into the larger ones—along with the vessels. A fine layer of a highly vascular areolar tissue lines the medullary canal, as well as the smaller cavities which contain marrow ; this has been named the medullary membrane, internal periosteum, or endosteum, but it cannot be detached as a continuous membrane. Its vessels join on the one side those of the osseous substance, and on the other side are continuous with the capillaries of the marrow. The marrow—at least the red variety—is the chief blood-forming organ in the adult, and the account of its structure will be deferred until the mode of development of blood-corpuscles is dealt with. Blood-vessels of bone.—The bones are well supplied with blood-vessels. A network of periosteal vessels covers their outer surface ; fine vessels run from this through all parts of the compact tissue in the Haversian canals ; others 1 See on bone-structure, Kblliker, Handbuch der Gewebelehre, Gth edition, and in Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. xliv. and xlv. 1880-7 ; v. Ebner, Wiener Sitzungsb. Ixxii. 1876; O. Van der Stricht, Arch, de biol. ix, 1889; Ranvier, Traite technique d’histologie, 1889; Meyburg, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiv. 1904 Novikoff, Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. xcii, 1909. On the structure of fossil bone, J. Schaffer, Sitzungsb. d. Wiener Akad. xcviii. 1889. On the elastic tissue of periosteum and bone, see K. Schultz, Anat. Hefte, vi. 1890. On the lymphatics of bone and periosteum, see Schwalbe, Zeitschr. f. Anat. ii. 1897.