AXON-REACTION 251 part of it which attributes the nutrition and therefore the growth of all the pro- cesses of the neurone to the nucleated cell-body) that it is impossible without far stronger reasons than have hitherto been brought forward to accept the presence of such fibrils as sufficient evidence of the doctrine of peripheral nerve-regeneration. There is not space to deal with the very considerable volume of jiathological and clinical evidence regarding this point, but it may be affirmed that the great bulk of such evidence is in favour of regeneration by cellulifugal outgrowth. Such instances as have been occasionally observed of immediate or very rapid recovery of function in the parts supplied by a cut nerve may without doubt be explained either by the overlap) which often occurs in the peripheral distribution of neighbouring nerves, or by the fact that in such cases the cut nerve has received at some point peripheral to the point of severance a branch from an adjoining intact nerve, which has sufficed in some measure to replace the function of the cut fibres, or, in yet other cases, by an impression which has been aijplicd to the skin having been conducted to the subjacent muscles or tendons in which the sensory nerve-libres have remained intact, although the sensory fibres to the integuments have been severed. Axon-reaction in body of nerve-cell.—As we have already seen (p. 212), there is always a change produced in the cell of origin when its axon is cut {axon reaction, Nissl degeneration), even although the stump of the nerve-fibre, which is still connected with the cell-bodj% shows no changes. H. K. Anderson ' experimenting upon young animals, finds that section of the sciatic nerve checks the development of the cells of the corresponding spinal ganglia, but that section of their central processes does not do so (although these processes themselves atrophy celluli- petally as well as cellulifugally). Section of the posterior roots causes no check in the development of the corresponding anterior roots. With regard to the sympathetic he finds that section of the post-ganglionic branches of the superior cervical ganglion checks the develoi^ment of the cells of that ganglion, and not only this, but also that of the fibres of the sympathetic which are passing up to the ganglion. On the other hand, section of the fibres of the cervical sympathetic, although producing Wallerian degeneration right into the ganglion and checking the development of the central part of the fibres and of their cells of origin in the lateral part of the grey matter of the cord, has no influence upon the cells of the superior cervical ganglion. Thus the effect of the severance of an axon is not necessarily confined, at least in young animals, to the neurone to which it belongs, but it may influence the metabolism of other neurones belonging to the same neurone-chain. This fact was first taken advantage of by v. Gudden to investigate tracts in the central nervous system, v. Gudden found that removal of parts or organs belonging to or connected directly with the central nervous system in young animals was followed by far more extended atrophy along the nerve-tracts involved in conduction of impulses from the part investigated than if the extirpation had been performed in the adult animal. The method of investigation is known as v. Gudden's method. The latest and most complete histological account of nerve regeneration is that of Cajal (Trabajos, &c., 1905 and 1907), whose researches are entirely in favour of the outgrowth theory. Amongst others who uphold this view may be mentioned Langley,'^ Head,® Ladlum,^ Marinesco,^ Mott,® Halliburton,^ Bikeles and Francke,® Lugaro,® Perroncito.'® The chief advocate of peripheral autogenesis of late years has been Bethe,' ’ whose views seem, however, to have under- gone some modification.*- Although the regeneration of the cut nerve-fibres seems to occur primarily by outgrowths from the central stump, there is some evidence of changes in the peripheral degenerated part of the nerve, preparatory to the appearance of the outgrowing axons.These changes seem to have been sometimes looked upon as evidence of peripheral autogenesis of the fibres. See also the ‘ Neurology ’ of this work (Vol. III. Part I.). The degeneration of the peripheral end of a cut nerve and the breaking up of the substance of the medullary sheath were first noticed by Nasse in 1839. But the discovery by Augustus Waller of the dependence of the process upon isolation of the nerve-fibre from its nutritive ^ Journ. Physiol, xxviii. p. 499, 1902. Ibid. XXX. 1904 (with H. K. Anderson). ^ Op. cif. Referred to in Review of Neurol. 1905. ^ neurol. 1900 (with Nimea). ® Proc. Roy. Soc. B. Ixxviii. 1900 (with Halliburton and Edmunds). ~ Brit. Med. Journ. 1907. Neurol. Centralbl. xxii. 1905. Ibid, xxiii. 1900. Ziegler’s Beitr. xlii. 1907. ** Allgemeine Anat. u. Physiol, d. Nervensystems, 1903. *- Pfltiger’s Arch. cxvi. 1907. Cf. Halliburton, oj;. cit.