380 THE BLOOD budding off from the endothelium of the blood-channels. The development of blood-corpuscles in the liver ceases about fourteen days after birth.* In the liver and other organs in which blood-corpuscles are being developed there are con- stantly found large nucleated giant-cells (megarokaryocytes) similar to those which are well known in bone-marrow; - their function is unknown. According to Kuborn ^ these giant-cells which are found in the embryonic liver play an important part in the formation of blood-corpuscles. Another common phenomenon is the appearance of masses of haemoglobin within the protoplasm of the endothelium of embryonic blood-vessels and of certain mesenchyme-cells. This is gener- ally explained by supposing that the haemoglobin has been derived from erythroblasts or erythro- cytes which have been taken into the cells in question by phagocytosis. But it is by no means certain that it has not become formed within the cells where it is found. One would expect haemo- globin masses which have been phagocytically ingested and are in process of disintegration to exhibit signs of transformation into haematoidin, as is always the case when blood-corpuscles are ingested by phagocytic leucocytes (spleen, old extravasations), but such changes are not noticed in the embryo (see also on this subject p. 382). Moreover, it is difficult to see any reason for the occurrence of such phagocytosis in developing tissues, in which formation and not destruction of haemoglobin is actively proceeding. On the other hand there is no improba- bility in supposing that in these situations other cells than those which are bodily transformed, with extrusion or atrophy of their nuclei, into erythrocytes, may share in the process of haemo- globin formation, and the haemoglobin-infiltrated cytoplasm may become budded off from the cell in which it has been produced. Such budding off of coloured cytoplasm from an endothelium- cell of a blood-vessel is depicted by Maximow in fig. 569, c, and fig. 571, en". C. Formation in the spleen. The embryonic spleen shows all the appear- ances of a hsemoblastic organ, although, according to Goodall,'* at a later stage than the embryonic liver and [marrow. Giant-cells are numerous in it, and lympho- blasts and erythroblasts—both frequently exhibiting mitoses—occur abundantly. As in the case of the liver, this hsemapoietic function—at least as regards the coloured blood-corpuscles—becomes lost after birth ; but it has been shown that in some animals, after a severe hsemorrhage, the spleen may in part resume its property of acting as a nidus for the development of erythrocytes. On the other hand, the formation of lymphocytes by proliferation goes on throughout life in the Malpighian corpuscles (lymphoid tissue) of the organ, although as regards the erythrocytes the spleen-cells seem rather to have assumed a destructive role, as is evidenced by the inclusion within them of red corpuscles in every stage of disintegration. I>. Formation in connective tissue. In later embryonic life, after the disappearance of erythroblasts from the blood, the formation of erythrocytes may continue in the connective tissue, in the interior of cells which are in process of development into blood-vessels. But at this stage the erythrocytes are produced at once in a non-nucleated condition : they are formed within the protoplasm of the vaso-formative cell, which becomes coloured in places and differentiated into erythrocytes. The details of the process are as follows : A part of the protoplasm of the cell becomes infi.ltrated with haemoglobin (fig. 572, h), and after a time the coloured substance becomes condensed in the form of globules iji') within the cells, varying in size from a minute speck to a spheroid of the diameter of a blood-corpuscle, or even larger ; but gradually the size becomes more uniform (fig. 572, li"). Some parts of the embryonic connective tissue, especially where a vascular tissue, such as the fat, is about to be developed, are studded with cells like these, occupied by a number of coloured spheroids. After a time the cells become elongated and pointed at their ends, and processes grow out to join prolongations of neighbouring blood-vessels or of other similar cells. At the same time vacuoles form within the cytoplasm (fig. 572, h'), and becoming enlarged coalesce to form a cavity filled with fluid, in which the reddish globules, which are ’ Kostanecki, Anat. Hefte, i. 1891. ^ Aimt. Anz. v. 1890. Saxer, Anat. Hefte, vi. 1890. •* Op. cit.