34 STRUCTUKE OF CELL a variable proportion of nucleic acid in combination with protein (or protamine). Owing to the presence of this acid the karyomitome possesses a peculiar affinity Fig. 65.—Spermatocyte of proteus, showing chromosomes OF NUCLEUS FORMED OF PARTICLES OF BASI-CHROMATIN UNITED BOTH LONGITUDINALLY AND LATERALLY BY ACHROMATIC OR OXYPHIL FILAMENTS. (Gurwitscli, after P. Hermann.) The nucleolus is distinct from the chromosomes. In the cyto- plasm an archoplasmic mass containing mitochondria is seen on the right. for basic dyes : hence it is said to be hasi-cliromo'phil or hasi-chromatic, and the material which takes up these stains is designated hasi-chromatin (or some- times simply chromatin). The depth of staining varies with the relative proportion of nucleic acid and protein-matter which it contains. The karyo- mitome is, however, not wholly composed of basi- chromatin, for the latter, at least in certain nuclei, may be seen to be composed of small basi-chromophil granules {basi-chro7nioles, figs. 65, 66) which are held together in the threads or trabeculse of the network and in the membrane by a material which is not stained by basic but by acid dyes, and is therefore oxy'phil. This material has been termed linin from the fact that it usually occurs in threads: it is possibly of a mucoid nature and may exhibit contractility; this is said to be the case with the chromo- some threads which are seen in dividing nuclei (Eisen). The karyoplasm, on the c Fig. GG.—Cell showing chromosomes OF NUCLEUS in THE FORM OF FiG. 67.—CHROMOSOME FILAMENTS FROM SPERMATOCYTES THREADS COMPOSED OF DOUBLE ROWS ^F Batrachoceps. (Gurwitsch, after Eisen.) OF CHROMIOLES. (F. Hermann.) c, centrosome with uniting spindle. c, c, cliromoplasts from which the chromosome threads have grown out. Both these and the chromosome threads are seen to be formed of fine particles (basi-chromioles) imbedded in linin. other hand, is oxyphil : it becomes stained by acid dyes and not by basic stains, and is accordingly termed oxy-chromatin (or sometimes achromatin). As already