435 CELLS OF SECEETING GLANDS the secretion of a gland is prepared, vary greatly in form in different glands and even in different parts of the same gland. Tims they may be columnar, cubical, ovoidal, polyhedral, or flattened. In many instances they have acquired the shape of a many-sided pyramid, the apex of the pyramid, which is bluntecl, being directed towards and even projecting into the lumen of the alveolus, while the base rests upon the membrana propria. This shape of a truncated pyramid is common in the saccular alveoli of racemose and racemo-tubular glands, while in glands the alveoli of which assume a more tubular character, and in the ducts of glands generally, a Fig. 643.—Part op an alveolus of the babbit’s pancreas. A, at rest ; B, after ACTR^E secretion. (From Foster, after Kiihne and Lea.) a, the inner granular zone, which in A is larger and more closely studded with granules than in B, in which the granules are fewer; b, the outer transparent zone, small in A, larger in B, and in the latter marked with faint striae ; c, the lumen, very obvious in E, but indistinct in A; d, indentation at the junction of two cells, only distinct in B. wedge shape is superimposed upon a columnar form, so as to adapt the cells to the curve of the cylindrical tubules. Like cells in general, those of secreting glands are composed of protoplasm containing a centrosome and a nucleus; the latter may occupy the centre of the cell, but in many cases lies in its basal part near the membrana propria. This is generally the case when the cell is filled with secretory products ; after these have been discharged the nucleus usually moves nearer to the middle of the cell. The most characteristic feature of the cells of secreting glands is the presence of secretory granules (fig. 642), no matter what may be the kind of secretion Fig. 644.—Alveoli of serous glands. A, at rest ; B, after a short period of activity ; C, after a prolonged period of activity. (Langley.) furnished by the gland. They have been found in serous glands such as the pancreas and parotid, in all mucous glands, in the lacrymal gland, in the gastric glands, in some cells of the intestinal glands and in the cells of the convoluted tubules of the kidney. The granules differ in size and appearance and in chemical reactions in different glands. In the cells of mucous glands they are large and, when stained, are conspicuous ; they are usually smaller but still very distinct in those of serous glands (where they are easily seen in the fresh condition) and in the chief or pepsin-forming cells of the glands of the fundus of the stomach ; in the F F 2