ARTERIES 885 curl in at its borders, and roll itself up as represented in fig. 517. The films of membrane are marked by fine lines, following principally a longitudinal direction, and joining each other obliquely in a sort of network (fig. 518). These lines are reticulating fibres formed upon the membranous layer and continuous with the reticulating elastic fibres which pervade the muscular coat and with those which extend into the subendothelial layer. The elastic membranes are further remarkable by being perforated with numerous round, oval, or irregularly shaped apertures of different sizes. In some parts of the arteries the fenestrated membranes are very thin, and therefore difficult to strip off ; in other situations they are of considerable thickness, consisting of several layers ; in which case they tend in the outer layers to lose their membranous character ; indeed, it must be borne in mind that every transition is met with between the fenestrated mem- branes and the longitudinal elastic networks. The muscular fibre-cells of the middle coat of the arteries (figs. 519 and 520) are seldom more than from 0T6 mm. to 0’25 mm. long, and frequently, especially Fig. 519.—Musculak fibre-cells FROM HUMAN ARTERIES. Magni- fied 350 diameters. (Kolliker.) 1. From the popliteal artery; A, natural; b, treated with acetic acid. 2. From a small branch of the posterior tibial. a, nucleus. Fig. 520.—Muscular fibre-cells from SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY, MAN. (Schafer.) Magnified 340 diameters. in those arteries in which the elastic tissue of the middle coat is most developed, present a very irregular shape with jagged extremities (fig. 520). Their nuclei are distinctly rod-shaped, are often slightly curved, and sometimes spirally wound during full contraction of the muscle-fibres. As already remarked, bundles of white connective-tissue fibres also occur in the middle coat; the proportion increases considerably with the size of the artery. It is important to note that the muscular tissue of the middle coat is more pure in the smaller arteries, and that the admixture of other tissues increases in the larger-sized vessels ; in these, moreover, the muscular cells are smaller. Accordingly, the contractility of the arteries, which depends on the muscular tissue of the middle coat, is little marked in those of large size, but becomes much more conspicuous in the smaller branches. Although, because of the arrangement of the elastic laminae, the muscle-fibres which originally formed a compact mass become broken up into lamellae, they for the most part retain their circular direction in the tunica media; but in the laminae nearest the tunica intima, impregnation with silver nitrate shows in the