SALIVARY GLANDS 517 752, and 753). The duct of the gland {Whartoyi’s duct) opens, on the floor of the mouth in front of the attachment of the tongue. Its coats are of the same nature as those of Stensen’s duct, but thinner. Like that it divides on reaching the gland, and after branching a few times the ducts become of uniform size and are lined by a distinctly striated wedge-shaped columnar epithelium, set on a basement- membrane {salivary ducts) (fig. 751, d). The serous alveoli (fig. 750) are precisely similar in disposition and structure to those of the parotid. The mucous alveoli are rather larger and more elongated, the lobular or intermediary duct being proportionately narrower ; the parts of the salivary ducts into which the lobular ducts pass are somewhat enlarged. ' The mucous cells are during rest filled with mucin (or mucigen) granules, but with most fixing reagents these swell and become indistinct, and the ‘ loaded " cells when thus altered and stained appear filled by a clear mass pervaded by a fine reticulum of protoplasm. The nucleus is pressed flat into the part of the cell which rests upon Fig. 751.—Section op submaxillaby, showing the commencement of a duct in the ALVEOLI. (Schafer.) Magnified 425 diameters. a, one of the alveoli, several of which are in the section shown grouped around the com- mencement of the lobular ductule, cV; a', an alveolus, not opened by the section; 5, basement- membrane in section; c, interstitial connective tissue of the gland ; d, section of a salivary duct lined with characteristically striated columnar cells ; s, crescentic group of darkly stained cells at the periphery of an alveolus. the basement-membrane. The serous cells of the mucous alveoli (really ‘ mixed alveoli ’) form, as already stated, crescentic patches between the mucous cells and the basement-membrane (‘crescents’ of Gianuzzi). These ‘crescents’ communi- cate with the lumen of the alveolus by secreting canaliculi (figs. 752, 753, d) which pass between the mucous cells and ramify amongst the cells forming the crescents and even within the individual cells. In the submaxillary of the cat the crescents may extend almost round the alveolus. After a prolonged period of secretion, and the consequent discharge of mucin from the mucous cells, the latter become smaller and more protoplasmic, and in hardened stained preparations more nearly resemble the serous cells of the crescents, but the distinction between them is still evident. Although the idea that the cells of the ‘ crescents ’ in mixed alveoli are specifically different from the mucous cells is held by most authors, some—e.g. Stdhr and Metzner—consider that the crescent-cells represent a phase of activity of the mucous cells. In support of this contention are quoted the following facts, viz. (1) that in the embryo and young animal the distinction into mucous cells and crescent-cells is not seen ; (2) that in the exhausted gland the distinction also tends to disappear ; and (3) that in mucous glands of some animals there appear to be