634 PENIS the triangular ligament, enters the bulb, surrounded obliquely by a portion of the spongy tissue, named by Kobelt the colliculus hulhi; from this a layer of venous erectile tissue passes back upon the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra to the neck of the bladder, lying closely beneath the mucous membrane. At first the urethra is nearer the upper than the lower part of the corpus spongiosum, but it soon gains and continues to occupy the middle of that body. According to the observations of Retterer, who investigated the development of the organ, the glans penis is formed only by true corpus spongiosum as to the part immediately encircling the urethra, the greater portion being developed from integumental tissue, which has become very vascular and cavernous, and which has united with the anterior ends both of the corpora cavernosa and of the corpus spongiosum ; the vascular connexion with the latter is however by far the most complete (Journ. de I’anat., 1892). The structure of the corpus spongiosum is essentially the same as that of the corpora cavernosa, but with a much less developed fibrous framework. Like the corpora cavernosa, it is distended with blood during erection, but it does not acquire the same rigidity. The fibrous tunic (fig. 924, 1) is much thinner, is less white in colour, and contains more elastic tissue ; the trabeculae are finer and more equal in size ; the areolae are smaller, more uniform, and directed for the most part with their long diameter in the line of that of the penis; in the glans, the meshes are smallest and most uniform. As they approach the urethra the lacunae acquire more the cha- racter and structure of a net- work of veins. There is more muscular tissue in the tra- beculae of the corpus spongi- osum of the urethra than in that of the corpora cavernosa, but less in the corpus spongiosum of the glans. Plain muscular fibres immediately surround the canal of the urethra, and also form part of the external coat of the spongy substance. A considerable artery derived from the internal pudic enters the bulb on each side, and supplies the greater part of the spongy body, sending branches as far as the glans penis, but this part is chiefly supplied by branches from the arteria dorsalis. Besides these, another but much smaller branch of the pudic artery enters the bulb on the upper surface, about an inch from its posterior extremity, and runs forwards in the corpus spongiosum to the glans (Kobelt). The arteries open into the venous spaces chiefly if not entirely by the intervention of capillaries. Veins issue from the glans and adjoining part of the spongy body, to end in the vena dorsalis penis ; those of the rest of the spongy body for the most part pass backwards through the bulb, and end in the prostatic and pudic venous plexuses ; some emerge from beneath the corpora cavernosa, anastomose with the veins of those bodies, and end partly in the cutaneous veins of the penis and scrotum, and partly in the pudic and obturator veins. The lymphatics of the penis form a dense network on the skin of the glans Fig. 924.—Section of the corpus spongiosum in.jected FROM its artery. (Henle.) 1, fibrous tunic of the corpus spongiosum; 2, mucous mem- brane of the urethra; 3, section of a lacuna of the mucous membrane; 4, section of an artery.