607 MUSCULAK COAT obliquely, and often intersect; in the male they also reach the prostate. At the summit a few are continued along the urachus. The longitudinal fibres taken together constitute what has been named the detrusor urince muscle, but the circular fibres undoubtedly also play a part in the evacuation of the urine. The circular fibres form a somewhat irregular reticulated layer distributed over the body of the, bladder, varying in appearance in different individuals. The stratum they form is usually thicker than that formed by the longitudinal fibres. Their course may in general be looked upon as transverse, but throughout the upper two-thirds of the bladder they for the most part cross one another in very oblique bands : towards the lower part of the organ they assume a more circular course; at the base of the bladder they disappear, being here replaced by the submucous muscular layer (see below). The muscular coat of the bladder forms so irregular a covering that, when the organ is much distended, intervals arise in which the walls are very thin ; and, should the internal or mucous lining protrude in any spot through the muscular bundles, a sort of hernia is produced, which may go on increasing, so as to form a vesical sacculus, or appendix vesicoe, the bladder thus affected being then termed sacculated. Hypertrophy of the muscular fasciculi, which is liable to occur in stricture of the urethra or other affections impeding the issue of the urine, gives rise to that condition named the fasciculated Madder, in which the interior of the organ is marked by strong reticulated ridges or columns, with intervening depressions. a h — 0 d Fig. 883.—Section of the mucous membkane op the bladdek to show its epithelium. (Szymonowicz.) a, h, superficial epithelium-cells ; c, leucocyte; d, connective tissue of mucous membrane. Next to the muscular coat, between it and the mucous membrane, but much more intimately connected with the latter, is a well-marked layer of areolar tissue, the submucous coat. The submucous areolar layer contains a large number of fine fibres of elastic tissue and also numerous muscular bundles which are scattered with no great regularity over the body of the bladder, but at the fundus produce a distinct stratum known as the submucous muscular layer (Ellis) especially developed in the neighbourhood of the trigone, where it forms the sphincter vesicce internus.^ The muscular bundles of the submucous layer are much finer than those of the muscular coat, and are easily distinguished from them in sections. The mucous membrane of the bladder is soft, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous above with the lining membrane of the ureters and kidneys, and below with that of the urethra. Neither here nor in the ureters is the mucous membrane provided with a muscularis mucosfe. It adheres loosely to the muscular tissue, and is thus liable to be thrown into wrinkles, except at the trigone, where it is always more even. It is covered with a transitional epithelium (fig. 883), exactly similar to that of the ureters (see pj). 604, 605). The cells vary much in ^ For further details regarding this structure and its relation to the other muscular fibres of the bladder and ureters, see Disse, ‘ Die Harnblase,’ in v. Bardeleben’s Handbuch der Anatomie, 11)02.