()11 TESTICLE considerable amount (fig. 886, c), in addition to the muscle of the darlos (e). The last-named is a vascular layer containing many strongly marked bundles of in- voluntary muscular tissue, and lying immediately beneath the skin of the scrotum; it also forms a septum between the two testicles. The contraction of the scrotum is especially provoked by cold, and is better marked in robust than in weak con- ditions of the body ; under contrary conditions the scrotum becomes relaxed. The skin of the scrotum is thinly beset with curled hairs slightly flattened in section ; their bulbs are large and may be seen or felt through the skin when this is stretched. The skin also allows the superficial veins to be seen through it. Besides the skin and dartos the testicles are covered within the scrotum by the spermatic fascia^ the cremaster muscle, the infundibuliform fascia, and the tunica vaginalis or serous membrane. These, as well as the spermatic cord which conveys Fig. 887.—Section through the testis and epididymis. (Bohm and v. Davidoff.) the duct of the testicle and the vessels, nerves and lymphatics to or from the scrotum, will be described in detail in the part of this work which deals with the anatomy of the viscera (Vol. II. Part II.). The testicle is an example of a compound tubular gland. Its tubules—the seminiferous tubules—considerably larger than the tubules of the kidney, are bounded by a comparatively thick and tough membrane, formed of several layers of a homogeneous connective tissue, containing many elastic fibres (fig. 910) ; between the layers and covering it externally are flattened epithelioid cells. The tubules are held together by loose connective tissue, which has peculiar interstitial cells containing yellowish pigment-granules, much more developed in some species of animal (cat, boar) than in man. The seminiferous tubules, which are highly convoluted—tubuli contorti—are arranged in groups or lobules {lobuli testis, figs. 887, 888), incompletely separated by strong fibrous septa [septula testis) which extend inwards from the thick fibrous capsule of the organ, intercommunicating at intervals with one another. The lobuli testis tunica albuginea caput epididymis rete testis epididymis tubuli recti vas deferens