367 BLOOD-CORPUSCLES for, on examining tlie circulating blood in the mesentery and other transparent parts of mammals, it is easy to observe that, with few exceptions, the erythrocytes are biconcave. This shape must therefore be regarded as the normal one.^ Their magnitude differs somewhat even in the same blood, but the prevalent size is *007 to ’008 millimetre^ inch) in diameter, and about one-fourth of that in extreme thickness. A few may usually be found which are not more than one-half the normal size (microcytes), and others (macrocytes) which are rather larger (up to about ‘0085 mm.); every gradation in size between these two extremes may be met with. In some diseases, especially pernicious ansemia, the relative number of microcytes is greatly increased. In mammals generally the red corpuscles are shaped as in man, except in the Fig. 556. — Red blood-corpuscles op THE TOAD. (Schafer.) Photograph. Magnified 450 diameters. Fig. 557. — Red blood - corpuscles of THE FROG. (Schafer.) Photograph. Magnified 450 diameters. camel tribe, in which they have the same shape ^ as in birds, reptiles, amphibia, and most fishes; in these they are elliptical discs with a central elevation on both surfaces (figs. 556 and 557). The height and extent of the elevation, as well as the proportionate length and breadth of the ellipse, vary, so that in some fishes the elliptical form is almost shortened into a circle. The size of the erythrocytes differs greatly in the different classes of vertebrata ; they are largest in amphibia. Thus in the frog they are about 25 /x long and 14‘5 /X broad ; in Proteus anguineus, 62‘5 /x long and 34‘5 /x broad ; inAmphiuma tridactylum, where they are largest, the red corpuscles are one-third larger than those of Proteus. In birds they range in length from about 8‘5 /x to 14*5 /x. Amongst mammals the elephant has the largest red blood-corpuscles (9 /x) ; those of the dog average 7 /x ; those of the sheep 5 /x ; the goat was long supposed to have the smallest (4 /x), but Gulliver found them about half this size in the Meminna and Napu deer.'^ In observations upon the blood of different races of mankind, Kichardson ^ Schiifer (Anat. Anz. xxvi. 1905). A similar conclusion is arrived at by David (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxi. 1907), by Jordan (Anat. Anz. xxxiv. 1909), and by Jolly, who observed the corpuscles in the vessels of the bat’s wing (C. r. soc. biol. Iviii. 1905 ; Arch, d’anat. micr. xi. 1909). Cf. also Orsds (Fob hajmat vii. 1909) and L. Lbhner (Pfiiiger’s Arch. cxl. 1911). - The one-thousandth part of a millimetre is known as a micron, and is represented by the Greek letter p.. The diameter of a red blood-corpuscle is therefore expressed as 7—8 microns (7 jx—8 /x). ^ But not the same structure, for, as in mammals generally, the red corpuscles in the camel tribe are non-nucleated. Proc. Roy. Soc. 1842 ; Proc. Zool. Soc. 1873 and 1875.