181 IMINUTE STiaiCTUKE apparent reticulum or sarcoplasm possesses contractility at all. Since, however, it is in all probability of protoplasmic nature it may possess a slow contractility. Careful observation with the highest powers distinctly shows that the filaments of the reticulum are actually septa which subdivide the fibre into longitudinal elements, and are not fibres of a reticulum, as was thought hy Carnoy, Cajal, and others. of* th© wing’-miiscles of insects.—Tli6 wing-inuscl6s of iiisGcts may be looked upon as furnisliing the key to the proper understanding of the structure of muscle. Although often regarded as a contractile tissue sui generis, they in fact agree in all essential particulars of structure with the ordinary muscles. Moreover, in some insects they are replaced by muscles of the ordinary type, and in others muscular fibres occur which may be regarded as transitional forms between the wing-fibres and ordinary fibres. The wing-fibres are bundles of large fibrils (often termed sarcostyles) which are imbedded in a considerable amount of sarcoplasm containing peculiar granules, the whole being enclosed within a sarcolemma. The nuclei of the fibre are scattered here and there in a central mass of sarcoplasm. The sarcoplasm has many of the characters of cell-protoplasm. Amongst these characters is that of staining with chloride of gold, by Cohnheim’s method, in which respect the sarcoplasm of the wing-muscles resembles that which forms the apparent reticulum of ordinary muscles. The main difierence between them is one of amount, the quantity of sarcoplasm in the wing-muscles being relatively far greater than in the ordinary muscles. Rollett' introduced a modification of the gold method, by which, under favourable circumstances, it is possible to obtain the fibrils (at least their sarcous elements) deeply stained and the sarcoplasm colourless. This method, although precarious, affords Avhen successful a valuable means of elucidating the minute structure of the muscle-fibril.- B r Fig. 281.—Fibbils of the wing-muscles of a When a living wing-fibre is Rollett s method. ° (Schafer.) (From photographs.) Magmned broken up with needles in a small about 2000 diameters. drop of white of egg, the sarcostyles A, a contracted fibril. B, a stretched fibril, with become easily separated from the elements separatea at the line of Hensen. J C, an uncontracted fibril, showing a porous structure sarcoplasm which surrounds them, of the sarcous elements, and they can then be studied independently of that substance. And, as has already been intimated, they can, under these circumstances, be seen to contract, whereas the sarcoplasm gives no sign of contractility: they therefore form the active portion of the fibre. The intimate structure of the sarcostyles can be advantageously investigated in such isolated elements, and this both in the living condition and after treatment of these muscles with reagents, especially by Kollett’s gold chloride method (fig. 281). 1 A. Rollett, Denkschr. d. Wiener Akad. 1885. ' For a description of Rollett’s method, see Essentials of Histology, 8th edition.