696 PITUITARY BODY Considerable clinical interest has been aroused in the pituitary since it was shown by Marie ’ that the pathological condition known as acromegaly, which is characterised by hypertrophy of connective tissue and of certain parts of the skeleton, is associated with tumours of the gland, which generally commence as hyperplastic growths of the anterior lobe. The enlargement which the gland undergoes during pregnancy and after ovariotomy points to a connexion between its function and those of the generative organs.'^ As already stated, the hyaline secretion of the posterior lobe is increased in amount and the whole gland is enlarged as the result of thyroidectomy.^ A great increase of the hyaline substance has also been noticed as the result of extirpation of the pancreas.^ Blood-vessels and lymphatics.—The pituitary body is extraordinarily vascular. This statement applies particularly to the pars anterior (fig. 1001), the pars intermedia receiving fewer blood-vessels, and the pars nervosa still fewer. The source of the blood-supply is dealt with at considerable length by Dandy and Goetsch,^ who find that the pars anterior receives eighteen to twenty small arteries which converge to it from the circle of Willis. They open into numerous large sinusoidal channels, in close proximity to the cells of the gland. No arteries or veins, properly so designated, occur in this lobe. The blood from the sinusoids passes towards veins in the stalk, which enter a venous eircle overlying the circle of Willis and draining into the vense magnse Galeni. The pars intermedia derives its blood-supply from vessels in the stalk and from the adjacent posterior lobe and brain. Its vessels form collateral connexions between those of the pars anterior and pars posterior. The pars posterior obtains its arterial supply from a median vessel formed by the junction of two lateral vessels, one from each internal carotid. Its blood is returned by one large vein and other small veins which enter the venous circle above mentioned. According to Thom,® there are numerous interfollicular lymphatics between the strands of cells of the pars anterior, and these, on the one hand, receive the secretion of the cells, and on the other pass it out with the lymph into the subarachnoid space. Creutzfeld also described lymphatic clefts in the organ, which communicate with wide fissures near the dorsal surface, and through these with the subarachnoid space. On the other hand, Edinger,^ using an injection method, describes pericellular clefts throughout the pars anterior which freely intercommunicate and join other clefts passing along the stalk into the brain-substance, where they enter the peri- vascular spaces. Edinger believes this to be the path whereby the secretion of the cells of the pars anterior leaves the gland.® ^ Revue de Med. vi. 1886 ; Brain, 1889. See also Woods-Hutchinson, New York Medical Journ. Ixvii. 1898, and Ixxii. 1900. ' E. Mayer, Arch. f. Gyn. xc. 1910; Tandler and Gross, Arch. f. Entwickl.-mech. xxx. 1910. Sutherland Simpson and Andrew Hunter, op. cit. Cushing and Goetsch, op. cit. 5 Op. cit. ® Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1901. Ibid. Ixxviii. 1911. ® Other papers dealing with the structure of the pituitary are, Bevacqua, Anat. Anz. xxxviii. 1911 ; A. S. and H. G. Griinbaum, Proc. Physiol. Soc. May, 1911 (Journ. Physiol.); Perna, Anat. Anz. xxxviii. 1911.