536 SMALL INTESTINE 1886 (cardiac orifice); G. Haane, Arch. f. Anat. 1905 (glands of cardia); E. Hamburger, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. xxxiv. 1889 (leucocytes in parietal cells); R. Heidenhain in Hermann’s Handbuch der Physiologic, v. 1883 ; A. Hopfi’e, Arch. f. Anat. 1910 (glands of cardia); Jouvenal, Journ. de I’anat. et de physiol. 1906 (crypts of Lieberkiihn); Marie Kaufmann, Anat. Anz. xxviii. 1906 (parietal cells in pyloric region); Kupffer, Festschr. d. arztl. Ver. Miinchen, 1883 (glands of cardia); J. N. Langley, Phil. Trans. 1881 (changes in gland-cells); Langley and Sewall, Proc. Roy. Soc. 1879, and Journ. Physiol, ii. 1879 (changes in gland-cells); A. Liebert, Anat. Hefte, xxiii. 1904 (fundus glands of monkey); F. P. Mall, Johns Hopkins Hospital Rep. i. 1890 (blood- vessels) ; R. Metzner in Nagel’s Handbuch der Physiologic, 1906 ; E. Muller, Biol, forens. For- handl. iv. 1891-2, and Om inter- och intra-cell. Kortelganger, Stockholm, 1894 (secretory canaliculi); Noll and Sokoloff, Arch. f. Physiol. 1905 (changes in gland-cells) ; Nussbaum, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiii. 1877 (glands of pylorus); Oppel, Vergl. mikr. Anat. d. Wirbelthiere, 1896 ; Rollett in Strieker’s Handbuch der Gewebelehre, 1871 ; Schaffer, Wiener Sitzungsb. cvi. 1897 ; Zimmermann, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898 (gland-cells and secretory canaliculi). THE SMALL INTESTINE. The small intestine commences at the pylorus, and, after many convolutions, terminates in the large intestine. Its average length in the adult is about 22 feet; it becomes gradually narrower from its upper to its lower end. The first ten or twelve inches immediately succeeding to the stomach, com- prising the widest and most fixed part of the tube, is called the duodenum. The remainder, which is arbitrarily divided into an upper two-fifths called the jejunum^ and a lower three-fifths called the ileum, is much convoluted and movable, being connected with the posterior abdominal wall by a long and extensive fold of peritoneum called the mesentery, and by numerous blood-vessels and nerves. Although there is no distinct line of demarcation between the jejunum and the ileum, yet the portion of the small intestine included under these two names gradually undergoes certain changes in structure and appearance from above downwards, so that the upper end of the jejunum can readily be distinguished from the lower part of the ileum.' The small intestine, like the stomach, is composed of four coats, viz. serous or peritoneal, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The external or serous coat almost entirely surrounds the intestinal tube over the whole extent of the jejunum and ileum, leaving only a narrow interval behind, where it passes ofi and becomes continuous with the two layers of the mesentery. The line at which this takes place is named the attached or 7nesenteric border of the intestine, the opposite border being known as the free border. The duodenum is but partially covered by peritoneum. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres, an outer longitudinal, and an inner circular set. The fibres are disposed in bundles, with connective tissue between the bundles. The longitudinal fibres constitute an entire but comparatively thin layer, and are most obvious along the free border of the intestine. The circular layer is thicker and more distinct. The muscular tunic becomes gradually thinner towards the lower part of the small intestine. It is pale in colour, and is composed of plain muscular tissue, the cells of which are of considerable length. There is a gangliated plexus of nerve-fibres and a network of lymphatic vessels between the two muscular layers. The submucous coat of the small intestine is a layer of areolar tissue of loose texture, which is connected more firmly with the mucous than with the muscular coat. Within it the blood-vessels ramify before passing to the mucous mem- brane. It also contains a gangliated plexus of nerve-fibres and a network of large lymphatic vessels. The mucous membrane is formed of reticular tissue, containing many lymph-corpuscles, and extended towards the intestinal cavity in the form of villi.