374 THE BLOOD m. Fig. 565.—Mesoderm of rabbit-embryo at the TIME OF COMMENCING BLOOD-FORMATION. (Maximow.) ordinary mesenchyme cells ; in\ a cell in karyo- kinesis; a primitive blood-corpuscle. blood there are at first very few of Other lymphoblasts are said by him to be formed later by division of the endothelial cells of the vessels and of mesenchyme-cells outside the blood-vessels : these subsequently pass into the developing vessels. The lympho- blasts or primitive lymphocytes are of the large type, like the macrocytes of the adult (p.^389). The protoplasmic network (syncy- tium) presently becomes hollowed out at the enlargements, and the newly formed corpuscles now lie bunched to- gether in cavities occupied by clear fluid unconnected with neighbouring groups (fig. 567): this gives the appearance of ‘ blood-islands.’ The hollowing out of the cell-network then extends along the communicating branches so that a vascular network is formed, and the nuclei of those angioblasts which are not formed into blood-corpuscles become nuclei of the endothelium-cells of which these primitive vessels are wholly com- posed. When a connexion is established with the developing heart the blood thus formed begins to circulate not only in the vascular area, but also in vessels which are similarly produced within the body of the embryo. In the circulating the primitive blood-cells or hgemoblasts; they Fig. 566.—Part of the network of developing blood-vessels in the vascular area OF the guinea-pig. (Schiifer.) hi, blood-corpuscles becoming free in an enlarged and hollowed-out part of the network. The smaller figure on the left represents a of the larger figure, more highly magnified; d, a nucleus undergoing division. are stated to remain in the vessels of the vascular area and there to go on giving rise to other primitive erythroblasts, which pass into the circulation.^ The primitive erythroblasts which are thus produced themselves multiply within the vessels by karyokinesis. These are at first the only coloured cells in the blood, ‘ According to Maximow, the primitive blood-cells are phagocytic, and ingest and destroy some of the primitive erythroblasts.