MUSCLE 176 but, as may be seen by altering the focus of the microscope, throughout its substance also. In a moderately extended fibre about eight or nine dark and as many light bands may be counted in the length of 0'025 mm. (i^Vir inch), which would make each complete stripe about 3 /x. But whilst this may be assigned as their usual measurement in human muscle, tliey are in different parts found to be much narrower, so that not infrequently there are twice as many in the space mentioned. This closer approximation always characterises contracted parts of the fibre. The cross-striped appearance is found in all the skeletal muscles ; but it is not confined to them, for it is seen in cardiac muscle, and striped fibres are also found in other viscera, such as the pharynx and upper part of the gullet. When the muscular fibres are deeply focussed, the appearance of the striae becomes somewhat altered, and a fine line, often dotted, is seen passing across the middle of each light band (see fig. 268). This is termed Dobie’s line {disque mince, Zwischenscheibe, Z), and it has been supposed to represent a membrane Fig. 268.—Portion of a human MUSCULAR FIBRE SHOWING DoBIE’S LINE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CLEAR BAND. (Sliai’pey.) U n , ,.08S / i £ , 53 / B mi A ^ fcm im im im ' im ■-'/ ^ i MB urn ^ ! !■* Fig. 269. — Small portion of a HUMAN MUSCULAR FIBRE TEASED INTO LONGITUDINAL FRAGMENTS. (Sharpey.) Magnified about 800 diameters. a, b, c, larger and smaller groups of fibrils ; d, ultimate fibrils. stretching across the fibre and attached at the surface to the sarcolemma. The line is, however, not visible in the most superficial planes of the fibre, and although there certainly are membranes crossing the fibrils at about this situation (membranes of Krause), they are not seen in the intact fibres, but only when these are dissociated into fibrils or after thev have been treated with certain reaoents. »' O There is reason to believe that the appearance of a dotted line in this situation in the fresh intact fibre is due to the peculiar optical conditions of the tissue. A fine clear line is sometimes to be seen in the middle of each dark band. This was first noticed by Hensen, and is named the line or disc of Hensen {Mittelscheibe, M). In certain foci it is dark instead of light. ' The proper substance of the fibre presents, besides the transverse bands, an appearance of longitudinal striation. On separating the fibres with needles, especially after hardening in alcohol, they may be broken up into fine longitudinal elements, single or in bundles, which run from end to end of the fibres (figs. 269, 270). These are the fibrils : the groups of fibrils have been termed muscle-columns