235 AXIS-CYIJNDER and that the nerve-fibre is continued to its termination by the axon alone, which is here usually branched. The axis-cylinder is therefore nothing but the axon of the nerve-cell, and its structure is the same therefore as that of this process, con- sisting of a bundle of fibrils (neuro-fibrils) which are imbedded in a homogeneous matrix (fig. 369). At the origin of the fibre in the body of the nerve-cell the neuro- fibrils tend to diverge towards all parts of the cell-body and towards and into the dendrons. At the termination of many nerves they also show a tendency to separa te from one another, passing into the several ramifications of the nerve-ending, and eventually even running singly to their termination : here the individual fibrils are often themselves branched. But whether they branch in the actual course of the nerve-fibre-is uncertain and difficult of determination. As already stated (p. 217), some authorities have held that these fibrils are in constant inter- Fig. 369.—Medullated nekve-fibbe of fkog, seen in transvekse and longitudinal SECTIONS. Osinic acid and acid fuclisin preparation. (Biedermann.) The longitudinal section shows a node of Ranvier and two clefts of Schmidt. Both sections exhibit the fibrils of the axis-cylinder. communication throughout the length of the fibre, and have regarded them in the same light as the network of fibrils which has been described in many forms of protoplasm, but with the meshes of the network greatly drawn out in the direction of the length of the nerve-fibre. This was the view advocated by Frommann. On the other hand. Max Schultze, who first described these fibrils as definite con- stituents of the axis-cylinder, held that they are quite unbranched, and do not unite with one another throughout their whole course (fig. 320). This view is on the whole that which is supported by most authorities, although it must be admitted that the observations of Apathy and others which have already been referred to seem to indicate that the isolation of the neuro-fibril is by no means an established fact. Moreover, an exception must in any case be made for the nerve- endings, where there is abundant evidence of the existence of branching and reunion. It is stated by G. Mann ^ that the fibrils are the only parts of the nerve whieh are continuous at the nodes of Ranvier from segment to segment. But it is impossible to be sure there is no interfibrillar matrix between them : all that can be affirmed is that if present it is in much smaller amount here than elsewhere. That the fibrils are not solid but of a semi-fluid nature is probable from the fact that they easily become varicose, with little beadlets or droplets upon their course : this is what one would expect with a viscous fluid, but not with a solid material. In transverse sections of the axis- cylinder the fibrils look like fine dots lying within a clear matrix ; with a very high magnifica- tion the dots appear to be encircled by a differentiated outline, as if each fibril were a hollow tubule (fig. 368). The experiments of Carlson indicate that the conducting substance of nerve must be fluid.- Some authors have described a special sheath {sheath of Maulhner) around the axis-cylinder separating it from the myelin, but there is no clear evidence of the existence of such a sheath, although, after death, the axis-cylinder may shrink away from the medullaiy sheath and leave a clear interval between. It seems highly probable that axis-cylinder and myelin sheath are originally parts of the same structure : the myelin being laid down or secreted by the proto])lasm of the axis-cylinder ; or, to put it in another way, that the original protoplasm which forms the axon of the nerve-cell undergoes differentiation in its external part to form the myelin sheath, which surrounds the central or internal part in which alone neuro-fibrils ^ Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesellsch. 1898. - A. J. Carlson, Journ. Exp. Zool. i. 1904 ; Amer. Journ. Physiol, xiii. 1905; Jenkins and Carlson, Journ. Comp. Neurol, xiii. 1903, and xiv. 1904.