324 HEART to the endothelium. The greater part of the valve contains no elastic fibres. At the base of the tendinous portion (fig. 499, a, and fig. 500, h) is a mass of non- striped muscle, which may act as a constrictor of the orifice. The valves are joined to the wall of the heart by strands of connective tissue coming from the Fig. 500.—The region i of the previous figure more highly magnified. (Mann.) (7, endothelial lining of the tunica intima; 6, tunica media containing bundles of non- striped muscle cut transversely; c, part of tunica adventitia containing coarse elastic fibres. ostia venosa ; they contain a few blood-capillaries. The semilunar valves are thinner than the auriculo-ventricular valves, and contain at their base bundles of muscle continuous with the myocardium of the auricles ; they are supplied with blood-vessels as far as these strands of muscle extend.' The aortic valves (fig. 501) are elastic on the ventricular and tendinous on the aortic surface. The elastic tissue of the heart has been especially studied by Seipp.^ Blood-vessels and lymphatics. — The circulatory systems of the heart are represented by the blood-vessels, the lymph-vessels, and the paths along which tissue-lymph travels. The hlood - vessels are derived from the coronary vessels, and are characterised by soon losing their adventitious coats and then forming a plexus of capillaries running parallel to the long axis of the columns of muscle-elements. Each column is in contact with two or three capillaries and with as many lymph-capillaries (fig. 502). The veins arising from the capillaries retain for a long time the structure of capillaries, being, even in vessels measuring 0‘25 mm., composed of a layer of endothelium only. The lymph-vessels of the heart form two superficial plexuses, one under the visceral peri- cardium, and the other beneath the endocardium. The older histologists (Henle, Schweigger-Seidel) believed the lymph-vessels of the myocardium to be so numerous as to convert the latter into a ‘ lymphatic sponge ’ ; all the clefts which one sees in sections were believed to represent lymph- vessels. Salvioli demonstrated by injection the existence of true lymph-vessels in the myocardium which are in continuity with those of the peri- and endo-cardium. Bizzozero and Salvioli found a large-meshed system of lymph-vessels in the connective tissue at the base, which open into the lymph-glands between the pleura and pericardium. The visceral pericardium, although considerably thinner than the parietal pericardium. Fig. 501. — Longitudinal section OF HUMAN AORTIC VALVE, ABOUT ITS MIDDLE. (Mann.) 1. Ventricular (elastic) moiety. 2. Aortic (tendinous) moiety. a, tunica intima of endocardium ; h, elastic lamina; c, white fibrous tissue with large admixture of elas- tic tissue; d, junction of loose ven- tricular with dense aortic tissue; e, compact white fibrous tissue with very delicate elastic fibres arranged round the bundles ; /, delicate elastic lamina immediately underneath the layer of endothelium on the aortic surface. 1 Oehl (Mem. d. accad. d. sci. di Torino, xx. 1861) has described muscle-bundles, having a certain resemblance to muscle-spindles, in the longer of the chordie tendineie of the left auriculo-ventricular valves. Anat. Hefte, vi. 1896. Seipp finds elastic fibres most abundant in the myocardium of auricles and ■endocardium of ventricles. Bock, Anat. Anzeiger, xxvii. 1905.