577 TRACHEA AND BRONCHI from the superior laryngeal and inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneuinogastric nerves, joined by branches of the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerves supply the mucous membrane and the crico-thyroid muscles, and also, in part, the arytenoid muscle. The inferior laryngeal nerves supply, in part, the arytenoid muscle, and all the other muscles, excepting the crico-thyroid. The superior and inferior laryngeal nerves of each side communicate with each other in two places, viz. at the back of the larynx beneath the pharyngeal mucous membrane, and on the side of the larynx under the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Numerous ganglion-cells are found on the branches, both on those which enter the muscles, and on those under the mucous membrane. End-bulbs are also found in the mucous membrane which covers the posterior surface of the epiglottis (Lindemann). Other nerve-bundles enter the epithelium, within which they end in arborisations of fine hbrils (fig. 840). Fig. 840.—Intra-epithelial nerve-terminations in the larynx. (G. Retzius.) Silver-chromate preparation. The section is taken at a place where the ciliated epithelium passes into stratified. The following papers relate to the minute structure of the larynx ; Benda, Arch. f. Physiol. 1895 (vocal cords); Boldyrew, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. vii. 1871 (nerves and vessels); Chievitz, Arch. f. Anat. 1882 (ossif.) ; Dion, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xi. 1875 ; H. Eichler, Arch. f. Anat. 1911 (larynx of domestic animals); S. Exner, Sitz. d. Wiener Akad. 1884, Virch. Arch, cxxxi. 1893 and Arch. f. Physiol. 1893 (nerves); Frankel, Arch. f. Laryngol. vii. 1893 (vocal cords) ; Friedrich, Arch. f. Laryngol. iv. 1896 : Sophie Fuchs-Holfring, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898 and liv. 1899 (glands) ; Heymann, Virch. Arch, cxviii. 1889 (epithelium and glands) ; Kanthack, Virch. Arch, cxvii. 1889 (vocal cords) ; Luschka, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. v. 1869 (ventricle) ; F. Merkel, article ‘ Kehlkopf,’ in v. Bardeleben’s Handbuch der Anatomie, 1902; Reinke, Anat. Hefte, ix. 1897 (vocal cords) ; G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. iv. 1892 (nerves) ; W. Stirling, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xvii. 1883 (nerves of epiglottis); Verson in Strieker’s Handbook, 1871. THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. Trachea.—The trachea consists of a framework of incomplete cartilaginous rings or hoops united by fibrous and elastic connective tissue, and behind, where the tube is flattened, by plain muscular tissue also. It is lined throughout by a mucous membrane, and provided with glands. The cartilag’es are from sixteen to twenty in number. Each forms a curve of rather more than two-thirds of a circle, resembling the letter C (see accompanying Plate). The depth of each cartilage from above downwards is three or four milli- metres, and the thickness 1 mm. The outer surface of each is fiat, but the inner is convex from above downwards, so as to give greater thickness in the middle than at the upper and lower edge. The cartilages are held together by strong connective tissue, which is elastic and yielding to a certain extent, and not only occupies the intervals between the cartilages, but is prolonged over their outer and inner surfaces, so that they are, as it were, imbedded in the tissue. The cartilages terminate abruptly behind by rounded ends, but the connective tissue is continued across between them, and completes the tube ; in this situation it is looser in its texture. The first or highest cartilage, connected by the general sheet of connective tissue with the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, is broader than the rest, and often divided VOL. II. PART I. P P