INTRODUCTORY 2 the elementary tissues in general, and the other {histological organology) dealing with their arrangement to form the organs. Further, some organs are strictly localised, whilst others, on the contrary, are widely distributed (‘general systems,' Bichat). Examples of the latter class are the blood-vessels, lymph-vessels, and nerves ; which all penetrate into, and thus come to form, constituent portions of most parts of the body. Other organs, again, while less generally difiused, are not confined to one place, but occur in many situations ; with local modifications, it is true, but nevertheless with sufiGicient uniformity of structure to warrant their being described together. Examples are met with in the lymphoid organs, in internally secreting glands, in externally secreting glands, in serous, synovial, and mucous membranes, and in the membrane which forms the general integument. It will be convenient to consider these after the elementary tissues are described. All the tissues and organs of the body are formed of cells (fig. 1), be- tween which is found a variable amount of intercellular substance, which in some tissues may be not in- considerable, whilst in other cases the cells may touch one another, or even come into complete continuity (fig. 2). This is not unfrequently the case with the branches of adjacent cells. When the continuity of the cell-substance is complete the congeries of cells re- ceives the name of syncytium. The life of the tissues is dependent upon that of the cells, which govern all metabolic changes within the body. These changes are the actual source of all vital phenomena, including development and growth; and since growth and chemical changes proceed in intercellular substance as well as in the cells themselves, it is believed by some authorities that intercellular sub- stance is also formed of living matter.^ But the cells are capable of forming- fresh intercellular material, and of causing chemical changes in that which is already formed, even although it is not immediately in contact with their protoplasm, through the agency of chemical substances (metabolites, enzymes) which they produce, so that it is not necessary to assume that the changes which occur in intercellular substance are brought about by its own activity. It is at any rate certain that intercellular substance shows no such changes apart from the cells which belong to it. The cells which constitute the body must be regarded as all exhibiting a period prior to differentiation, a period of differentiation, and a period of regressive metamorphosis wliich ultimately leads to the death of the cell.'-= In some cells the whole life-history is comprised within a limited time, the degenerated cells being either absorbed or cast off : the blood- cells and the cells of stratified epithelia furnish examples of these. In other cells their life-historj' is coterminous with the life of the individual, as in the case of nerve-cells and muscle-cells. 1 Cf. F. Mall, Amer. Journ. Aiiat. i. l‘.)01-2, and M. Heidenhain, Plasma u. Zelle, 1907. - C. S. Minot, Science, xiii. 1901, p. 401. m. Fig. 2.—Mesoderm: cells of rabbit embryo, UNITING TO FORM A SYNCYTIUM. (MaximOW.) m, ordinary mesoderm cells; ?n', a cell in karyokinesis; Z, a lymphocyte.