CARDIAC MUSCLE ‘202 to all appearance of separate striated cells as already mentioned, it would seem that here also muscle-fibrils pass from cell to cell across the junctions. If this is so, we must assume that, as was held previous to the work of Schweigger-Seidel, the fibrils and fibres of cardiac muscle are continuous throughout the myocardium both longi- tudinally and laterally. In this case the question naturally arises, How are we to account for the apparent cell-outlines, in the form of the transverse septa which mark the muscle-fibres off into uninuclear areas simulating and doubtless representing individual cells ? Some observers have held that the septa are purely accidental, produced by bands of contraction traversing the fibres, which have been fixed by the hardening reagent.* M. Heidenhain has put forward the view that they are portions of the fibres in which, as in the sutures between the cranial bones, growth may proceed. But if this were so we should expect them to be more distinct in young and growing heart-muscle, whereas the contrary is the case ; indeed they are not seen in developing muscle, and are said to be absent in most of the lower vertebrata and even in some mammals.- These septa may, when they occur, afford a certain block to the passage of the contraction wave from cell to cell. Thus it has been shown by M. Imchanitzki ^ in the heart fixed in a condition of fibrillar contraction that the individual cardiac muscle-cells may show different stages of contraction, or one may be at rest and the succeeding cell in contraction. Kronecker, in whose laboratory these observations were made, regards this as strong evidence that the passage of the contraction of the fibres from cell to cell is effected through nerves and not by muscrdar continuity. The opinion that the septa in question represent cell-outlines- which have formed by differentiation in the original syncytium, as happens with many originally syncytial structures, is supported by the fact that they exhibit reactions which are similar to those yielded by cement-substance between cells, and that there is a tendency for the fibres to break across at these points. That the differentiation is imperfect is seen from the circumstance that the muscle-fibrils are continued across the cement lines,^ and that it is not a necessary feature of heart-muscle structure is evidenced by its absence in some animals. It is possible that the interpolated segments in which no nuclei are visible are continuous with nucleated portions of fibres in other planes than that of the section in which they are seen. This view is that taken by K. W. Zimmermann, and upheld by his pupils, v. Palczewska and Werner, whose work has already been referred to. ^ Cf. Hoffmann, Dissert. Leipzig, 1909. A similar view has been held by Wagener, v. Ebner,, and Aschoff. ^ Moriya, Anat. Anz. xxiv. 1903. ^ Arch, internat. de physiol, iv. 1906. Przewosky, Arch. d. sc. biol. St. Petersburg, 1893 ; M. Heidenhain, loc. cit.