KIDNEY 592 medulla. The veins have a similar course and arrangement to the arteries, pro- ceeding towards venous vessels which are more distinctly arched than the arteries. The interlobular veins begin near the capsule by a convergence of capillaries and venules from the cortex, forming the so-called stellate veins (vencB stellulce). Besides these interlobular veins, which receive most of the capillaries of the cortex, there are a certain number of small veins which receive blood from the capillaries of the deepest part of the cortex and open direct into the arched veins. The veins of the medulla arise by plexuses near the apices of the papillae, around the ducts of Bellini. They pass between the radiating tubules, and enter the concave side of the venous arches as the straight venules {vence rectce). As already stated, the vasa recta are 2 collected into bundles as they pass towards the arching vessels between cortex and medulla, and by this arrangement they give the appear- ance in the fresh kidney of red streaks alternating with paler medullary sub- stance {boundary zone, fig. 859). But the most striking peculiarity of the blood-supply of the kidney consists in the presence within the cortex of globular tufts of ramified capil- laries which in the fresh kidney appear to the naked eye as minute red spots—the glomeruli—lying with a fairly regular arrangement within the labyrinth alongside of the medul- lary rays. Each glomerulus is supplied by a short branch of an interlobular artery (figs. 861, 862), which on enter- ing the glomerulus, divides into five or six branches, one for each of its lobules, to the periphery of which they are distributed ; each of these lobules consists of a closely reticular mass of capillaries (figs. 863, 864). From these capillaries the blood is collected by venules, which usually begin near the middle of the lobule and unite to form the issuing vessel, which usually leaves the glomerulus close to the entering arteriole. The issuing venule almost immediately proceeds to break up into a second set of capillaries, ramifying in a close network around the tubules. The vessels which pass to and from the glomeruli are termed respectively the afferent and efferent vessels. Of the two, the afferent has the structure of a small artery; the efferent, although breaking up into capillaries, resembles a small vein in structure. The efferent vessels of the glomeruli nearest the pyramids break up into long meshed capillaries which pass amongst the ven<T. rectce into the medulla ; they are sometimes termed false arteriae rectse, but according to Huber, who is confirmed by Gerard, all the arterice rectae are of this nature, none come off direct from the arterial arches. This opinion was held by Bowman, but Virchow Fig. 859.—Diageam of a section thbough paet OP THE KIDNEY PAEALLEL TO THE MEDUDLAEY TUBULES. (Testut.) a, papillary zone; b, boundary zone; c, cortical zone. 1, apex of papilla ; 2, capsule ; 3, clear striae of boundary zone, formed by tubules of medulla; 4, dark striae of boundary zone formed by vasa recta ; 5, vascular arches ; 6, medullary rays ; 7, labyrinth (columns of Bertini); 8, interlobular vessels ; 9, Mal- pighian corpuscles; 10, subcapsularlayerof labyrinth.