DEVELOPMENT OF ERYTHROCYTES IN THE EMBRYO 373 of under that name. But since the erythrdcytc behaves in every way physically like a solution of haemoglobin associated with electrolytes and enclosed by a semi-permeable membrane and in no way like a membrane-less jelly, the stroma theory must be definitely abandoned. The facts and arguments which have been given against this theory and in favour of the membrane hypothesis were originally stated in the 10th edition of this work (1891) and are discussed in connexion with the mammahan erythrocyte (pp. 369 to 371).‘ G. N. Stewart,^ who admits a lipoid membrane, thinks the hsemoglobin is in form of a ‘ gel ’ in combination with the con- stituents of the ‘ stroma.’ But if the erythrocytes are watched as they move along the capillaries or even as they are moved about in a micro- scopic preparation of blood, it is impossible not to conclude that their contents must be entirely fluid. This conclusion is strikingly confirmed in the corpuscles of ovipara by the readiness with which the nucleus becomes displaced even in a perfectly fresh preparation (fig. 584, p. 389). Formation of red blood-corpus- cles.^—A. Zn the mesoderm of the early embryo. Blood-corpuscles make their appearance very early in the embryo, simultaneously with the formation of the earliest blood-vessels; they are in fact formed from some of the same cells (angiohlasts) which produce the endothelium of the blood-vessels. These cells appear in the mesoderm of the yolk-sac, and groups of them are first visible to the naked eye as isolated reddish spots (‘ blood-islands ’ of Pander) which are seen in a circular area of the blastoderm {area vasculosa) sur- rounding the embryo, outside the body of which they are therefore first formed ; later they make their appearance in the embryo proper. After a time the isolated spots are seen to have grown together to form a network of vessels in the vascular area, and this to have become con- nected with the simple tubular heart which by this time is developed at the head-end of the embryo. The angioblasts are at first branching cells, not unlike the rest of the mesoderm (mesenchyme) cells, with which, according to Maximow, they are identical (fig. 565). They unite with one another to produce an irregular protoplasmic network (syncytium, fig. 566). Their nuclei divide by karyokinesis, faster at some parts than others, and at such places the protoplasm accumulates around them and forms groups of rounded cells producing enlargements, usually at the nodes of the network. Within these enlargements the protoplasm of the accumulated cells becomes coloured by the formation of hsemoglobin, so that coloured nucleated cells {'primitive erytliroblasts) are thus produced (fig. 566). The rounded cells, whilst still colourless, are primitive blood-cells (hcemoblasts). According to the account which Maximow * gives of the development of the blood in the rabbit-embryo, all the primitive blood-cells do not become primitive erythroblasts, but some remain uncoloured, and these, which are of the nature of lymphocytes {primitive lymphocyteSy lymphoblasts), by division give rise both to other lymphocytes and primitive erythroblasts. 1 Albrecht and others have arrived at a similar conclusion. See Weidenreich, Merkel and Bonnet’s Ergebnisse der Anatomie, 1904, also Schafer, Anat. Anz. xxvi. 1905. ^ Amer. Journ. Physiol, viii. 1902. 5 The following articles contain the literature of the subject up to their respective dates : A. Noll ‘ Formation and Regeneration of Red Corpuscles,’ Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1903; J. Sieman, ‘ Die blutbildenden Organe ’ ibid, 1904; A. Goodall, Journ. Path, and Bact. xii. 1908. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiii. 1909. Fig. 564.—Colouked COBPUSCLE op SALA- MANDEB, SHOWING INTBA-NUCLEAB NET- WOBK. (Flemming.) A B Fig. 563. — Ebythbocytes op lepidosiben LABVA, PIXED WITH PLEMMING’S SOLUTION AND STAINED WITH IBON - H/EMATOXYLIN. (T. H. Bryce.) A, as seen on the flat; B, in section. In A the fibrils around the edge are visible as fine lines parallel to the margin of the corpuscle. In B their sections are seen as fine points just within the thinnest part of the edge.