VESSELS AND NERVES 423 part of irregularly stellate cells, except over the fat, where there is occasionally to be observed a true epithelioid covering like that of a serous membrane. The smaller folds are less liable to contain fat and are highly vascular. Their capillaries form loops near the margin. They are beset, as already stated, with non-vascular secondary fringes (Rainey) or synovial villi (Luschka). These (fig. 622) are small, variously shaped processes—often fungiform, sometimes finger-shaped, occasionally having the form of a thickened leaf—projecting from the margins of the folds, and consist for the most part of a strand of connective-tissue fibrils (fig. 627) ; they also contain groups of small rounded cells with granular protoplasm and in some cases a few cartilage-cells. The vascular folds are most common near the attachment of the membrane to the edge of the articular cartilage. Vessels and lymphatics.—The blood-vessels in and immediately beneath the synovial membrane are numerous in most parts of the joints. They advance but a short way upon the cartilages, forming around the margin a vascular zone, named by William Hunter ‘ circulus articuli vasculosus,’ in which they end by loops of vessels dilated at the bent part greatly beyond the diameter of ordinary capillaries (Toynbee). In the foetus these vessels advance further upon the surface of the cartilage than in the adult. The vessels of the vaginal synovial membranes are less numerous than those of the synovial membranes of the joints. The synovial cavities do not have the same relation to the lymphatic system as the serous. For although lymphatic vessels have been described by Tillmanns and others in the synovial membranes, they have not been shown to communicate by stomata with the cavities, nor do they as a rule lie near the free surface. In this respect they differ from the blood- capillaries, which come close up to the inner surface of the membrane. Nerves.—W. Krause described the nerves of the synovial membranes (at least those of the joints) as terminating in peculiar corpuscles (articular end-bulbs) (p. 263, and fig. 415). Nicoladoni traced nerves into a plexus of pale fibrils lying close under the surface of the membrane. Pacinian corpuscles have also been noticed under the synovial membranes in many places. Pig. 627.—Villus of syno- vial MEMBRANE. (Ham- mar.) Highly magnified. Development.—At the time of the formation of a joint by cleavage the tissue around it forms, in its outer part, the fibrous capsule of the joint; in its inner part, the commencement of the synovial membrane. The cartilage-cells on the surfaces of the newly formed joint are at first, like those of the embryonic cartilage generally, placed closely together without matrix or intercellular substance ; after a time this appears in fine lines between the cells, so that in silvered preparations an epithehoid appearance is presented. By a further development of intercellular substance the superficial cells become more separated from one another, and now possess an irregularly branched shape with communicating processes. Near the edge of the cartilage this condition is permanent, so that the marginal zone of the synovial membrane is formed in situ from what was originally cartilage. Nearer the centre of the articular surface, a further change takes place in the progress of development. The cells lose their processes and acquire the characters of ordinary cartilage-cells, whilst the matrix between them becomes increased, and forms also a thin layer covering their suiiace. In some places, e.g. the glenoid cavity of the articulation of the lower jaw, the transformation into ordinary cartilage-cells may be incomplete, so that the synovial membrane extends over a larger extent of the articular surface than usual.