THE BLOOD AND LYMPH. THE BLOOD. To the naked eye the blood appears opaque and homogeneous; but, when examined with the microscope, either within the minute vessels, or when spread out in a thin layer upon a glass slide, it is seen to consist of a transparent colourless fluid, named ‘ liquor sanguinis,’ or ‘ plasma,’ in which corpuscles are immersed. The most evident of these corpuscles are of two kinds, the coloured {erythrocytes) and the colourless {leucocytes). The former are by far the more abundant, and have been long known as the red or coloured corpuscles of the blood; the colourless, white, or pale corpuscles, on the other hand, being fewer in number and less conspicuous, were longer in being generally recognised. Of late years a third kind of corpuscle, much smaller than either of the other two, and far less conspicuous, has been recognised as a constant morphological constituent of blood. These corpuscles appear to be connected with the process of coagulation and are hence termed thrombocytes ; from their small size and flattened shape they are also known as blood-platelets. When blood is drawn from the vessels it undergoes coagulation, the plasma depositing fibrin, which appears under the microscope in the form of fine interlacing filaments; the colourless or yellowish fluid which remains is named serum. In a cubic millimetre of normal human blood there are on an average 5,000,000 red corpuscles. The number of white corpuscles is about 10,000, but varies much more than that of the red; from 5,000 to 20,000 per cubic millimetre being met with even under normal circumstances. There are fewer red corpuscles in the female (4,500,000 per cubic millimetre). The number of blood-platelets is still more variable ; it has been given at from 5,000 to 450,000 per cubic millimetre of blood. The number both of erythrocytes and leucocytes is relatively higher in young children. According to the observations of H. H. Roberts,' the average number of erythrocytes per cubic milhmetre of blood during the first twenty-four hours after birth is 6 millions. There is an increase during the first three days, then a gradual decrease, until during the second week there are about 5^ millions. There are usually some erythro- blasts on the fir.st day. The blood-platelets are fewer than in the adult. Leucocytes are also more numerous immediately after burth. On the first day they average 18,000 per cubic mHlimetrc, and on the second day 16,000, but by the third day they are down to 11,000. The proportion of haemo- globin in the red corpuscles is higher in the new-born than in the adult by 15 to 20 per cent. Enumeration of the coloured blood-corpuscles is readily performed. A definite ainount of blood, obtained by pricking the finger, is measured in a capillary tube, and is then mixed with a measured amount (100 times its volume) of dilute solution of sulphate of soda, or some other fluid which prevents coagulation and at the same time preserves the corpuscles ; the latter can then ’be counted in a small known quantity of the mixture. This part of the operation is effected by placing a drop of the mixture in the middle of a glass ‘cell ’ of a certain depth (xV.t^ of a millimetre), the bottom 1 Thesis, Edinburgh, 1900 (unpublished). This is generally confirmatory of the older observations, especially those of Hayem (Recherches &c., Paris, 1878 ; also ‘ Du Sang,’ &c., 1889). Pig. 554. — Human RED CORPUSCLES. Magnified about 420 diameters