TONGUE 489 surface, which has a roughened aspect, due to the presence of small projections of the membrane, known as the lingual papillce. The mucous membrane of the tongue is provided with numerous small glands {lingual glands), collected principally about the posterior part of its upper surface, near the papillce vallatse and foramen caecnm, into which last the ducts of several open. Most of these glands secrete mucus, but some of them, especially those which open in the trenches around the papillae vallatse, and at other parts where taste- buds occur, yield a serous secretion {glands of Ehner). Other glands are found beneath the mucous membrane of the borders of the tongue. There is, in par- ticular, a group on the under-surface of the tongue on each side near the apex called the glands of Blandin. They are there aggregated into a small oblong mass, out of which several ducts pro- ceed and open in a line on the mucous membrane. Most of the glands are tubulo-racemose. The mucous membrane of the tongue, especially its posterior part, contains a large amount of lymphoid tissue, which is collected at numerous points into the denser nodular masses known as follicular glands, or lymph-follicles. The blood-vessels and lymphatics of this part of the membrane are numerous and large, but the papillae on its surface are comparatively small, and are com- FiCt. 709.—Vebtical section of cibcumvallate PAPILLA FBOM THE CALF. (Engelmami.) 25 diameters. A, the papilla: B, the surrounding wall. The figure shows the nerves (n) of the papilla spreading towards the surface, and towards the taste-buds imbedded in the epithelium at the sides; in the sulcus on the left the duct of a gland {d) is seen to open. Fig. 710.—Section of cibcumvallate papilla, human. The figube includes one side of the papilla AND THE AD.JOINING PABT OF THE VALLUM. (Heitzmann.) Magnified 150 diameters. a, epithelium; b, taste-bud ; c, corium with injected blood-vessels ; d, gland with duct. Fig. 711.—Section of fungifobm papilla, HUMAN, WITH THE BLOOD-VESSELS IN- JECTED. (Heitzmann.) a, epithelium ; b, corium; c, lymphoid tissue; d, muscular fibres of tongue. pletely concealed by the thick superjacent epithelium. The mucous membrane here exhibits recesses or crypts (fig. 707, /), either simple or surrounded by smaller ones which open into them, as in the tonsils. The walls of these recesses are studded with lymph-follicles; the recesses receive the ducts of many mucous glands.