36 STRUCTUKE OE CELL number for the same species of animal in each nucleus, and capable of growth and of multiplication by division. This may also be true of their constituent chromioles. According to a theory first propounded by Rabl,' the chromosomes, although joined into a reticulum or even a cluni]), in the resting nucleus, retain their individuality, and when the nucleus becomes active during the prophases of karyokinesis, the chromosomes, which may be spherical, rod-like, or thread-like, become merely separated from one another by a withdrawal into their substance of the strands which connected them and by an accumulation of karyoplasm between them. In point of fact, in nuclei with few chromosomes, small masses of chromatic substance (c/irowopZos^s) (fig. 70), in number equal to that normal to the species, may sometimes be observed in the reticulum of the resting nucleus ; ^ these serve as starting-points for the growth of the chromosomes (fig. 07). Nuclear membrane and network.—All nuclei except those in process of division appear to be bounded by a distinct membrane formed mainly of basi- chromatin, but probably consisting also of linin. This membrane forms a sharp division between nuclear contents and cytoplasm. It was at one time thought ^ that the membrane is frequently incomplete and furnished with pores, or even in the Fig. 70.—Cell shoaving chro- matin OF NUCLEUS ACCUMU- LATED INTO EIGHT CHROMO- PLASTS, WHICH ARE BEGIN- NING TO GROAV OUT TO FORM CHROMOSOMES. Fig. 71.—Lymphocyte from blood of Triton, FIXED BY A JET OF STEAM, AND STAINED WITH H.EMATOXYLIN. (Schafer.) Magnified 1500 diameters. The nucleus exhibits a close and even network of basi-chromatin. condition of a basket-work. This may sometimes be the case so far as the chromatic portion is concerned, but the condition is rare : in nearly all cases of resting nuclei the membrane appears in section as a sharply bounded line (fig. 68, a). On its inner surface the membrane is connected with strands of the karjmmitome reticulum, which vary greatly in number and in thickness. These form, as already stated, a network or spongework throughout the interior of the nucleus, the trabeculfe being sometimes equal and regular (fig. 71); in others, and the majority of cases, unequal in size and irregular in distribution (fig. 68, a). Sometimes the trabeculfe appear to trend toAvards one pole of the nucleus. The material of which these strands are composed is, in the main, like the nuclear membrane, stainable by basic dyes, and in a nucleus thus stained their nodes or junctions show out more strongly than the rest, so as to give the appearance, under a moderate magnifying power, of distinct granules. Hence the descriptive term ‘ granular ^ was constantly applied to cell-nuclei before the meaning of this appearance was understood. Occasionally the nodal thickenings ^ Morph. Jabrb. x. 1885 ; Anat. Anz. vi. 1889. ^ See further on the individuality and independence of the chromosomes, Boveri, Ergebn. ii. d. Konstitution des chromat. Subst. 1904; 0. Hertwig, Allgemeine Biologie ; Gerassimovv, Bot. Centr. 1904. ^ Cf. Flemming, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiii. 1870 ; G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. 1881.