29 CENTJROSOME Overton's views on this subject have received a certain amount of criticism,^ but the hypothesis appears on the whole more consistent with the known facts of cell-osmosis than others which have been suggested to explain them. Centrosome and attraction-sphere.—Many, but not all, cells possess a small area somewhere near the centre of the cell and frequently at the side of the nucleus from which lines radiate into the neighbouring part of the protoplasm and are sometimes traceable to its extreme limits. The central part of the area is usually —but not always—occupied by a particle of protein material (fig. 51), which takes up certain special stains the employment of which is generally necessary in order to bring it distinctly into view. This particle, which is frequently double, even Fig. 52.—Spekjiatocytes op Ascaeis, showing the centrosome within the nucleus, ITS DIVISION into TWO WITH THE FORMATION OP A DIVISION SPINDLE BETWEEN THEM, AND THE PASSAGE OF THE RESULTING CENTROSOMES FROM THE NUCLEUS INTO THE ADJACENT CYTOPLASM. (Verwom, after Brauer.) The whole cell is represented only in the two lowest figures, nucleolus ; c, centrosome. The chromosomes are dark. in the resting cell, is known as the central 'particle, attraction-particle, or centriole (Boveri), and it evidently occupies a point in the protoplasm which possesses stronger attractive or repulsive properties than the rest, as is indicated by the directive lines which converge to or radiate from it, which are exactly like lines of strain or stress which may be formed in colloid solutions in the process of fixation. These lines cannot, as a rule, be traced quite into the centriole,''^ but lose themselves within a spherical area of protoplasm which immediately surrounds it, and which is itself again surrounded by a clearer zone : this spherical area is termed the attraction- sphere or centrosome^"' and the protoplasm within and immediately around the sphere, which may exhibit granules or fibrils of the nature of mitochondria (fig. 65), • ^ T. B. Robertson, Journ. Biol. Chem. iv. 1908. For the literature on cell-lipoids, see p. 11, footnote 5 - This may, however, be due to the presence of a refraction-halo. ^ The name centrosome is sometimes used in a more restricted sense to denote the central particle, here called centriole.