MUSCLE 19‘2 are supported in their progress by the subdivisions of the sheath of the muscle, to which also they supply capillaries. The capillaries destined for the proper tissue of the muscle are extremely small; they form among the fibres a fine network, with narrow oblong meshes (fig. 291), which are stretched out in the direction of the fibres; in other words, they consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels—the former running parallel with the muscular fibres, and lying in the angular intervals between them; the latter, which are much shorter, crossing between the longitudinal ones, and passing over or under the intervening fibres. In the deei^er coloured inuscular fibres of those animals which, like the rabbit, possess two kinds of voluntary muscles, some of the transverse loops of the capillary network are dilated far beyond the size of the ordinary capillaries (fig. 292). The number of capillaries in a given space of a muscle, or their degree of closeness, is partly regulated by the size of the fibres ; and accordingly in the muscles of different animals it is found that when the fibres are small the vessels are numerous and form a close net- work, and vice versa ; in other words, the smaller the fibres, the greater is the quantity of blood supplied to the same bulk of muscle. In conformity with this, we see that in birds and mammalia, in which the process of nutrition is active, and where the rapid changes require a copious supply of material, the muscular fibres are smaller and the vessels more numerous than in cold-blooded animals, in which the opposite conditions prevail. liympliatics. — So far as is known, there are no lymphatic vessels within the voluntary muscles, although there is an abundant supply in their connective-tissue sheaths and tendons. The lymphatic vessels here would seem, as pointed out by Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel, to serve the pur- pose of collecting and conveying away the lymph which is present in the areolae of the intramuscular connec- tive tissue. Nerves.—The nerves of a voluntary muscle are of considerable size. Their branches pass between the fasciculi, and repeatedly unite with each other in form of a plexus, which is for the most part confined to a small part of the length of the muscle, or muscular division, in which it lies. From one or more of such primary plexuses nervous twigs proceed, and form finer plexuses composed of slender bundles, each containing not more than two or three dark-bordered nerve-fibres, whence single fibres pass off between the muscular fibres and divide into branches which are finally distributed to the tissue. Most of the nerve-fibres are motor, and pass to the structures known as ‘ end-plates,^ but a few are sensory, and end in the so-called ‘ muscle-spindles." These structures will be described later, along with nerve-endings generally. HISTOGENESIS. Most of the voluntary muscles of the body are developed from a series of portions of mesoderm which are early set aside for this purpose in the embryo and are termed the muscle-plates. Each muscle-plate is found after a time to consist of two layers, an inner and outer. According to Maurer, it is the Fig. 292.—Blood-vessels of a red muscle of THE RABBIT, INJECTED. (Ranvier.) a, arteriole ; u, v, venules ; w, dilatation on transverse caiiillaries.