NERVE-CELLS 209 extensions. On the other hand, the white matter of the nerve-centres is composed of mediillated nerve-fibres which are processes of nerve-cells invested by a sheath of myelin {medullary sheath). These medullated nerve-fibres also occur in the nerve-roots and peripheral nerve-fibres, but here they have in addition an outer membranous sheath {nucleated sheath, neurolemma), enclosing the white or medul- lary sheath and conferring a certain amount of toughness upon the fibre. Every nerve-cell gives origin to at least one nerve-fibre (figs. 319, 320), and con- versely every nerve-fibre is connected at one extremity to a nerve-cell of which it forms a direct prolongation. This has been recognised as a fundamental principle governing the structure of the nervous system ever since the continuity of nerve- cells with nerve-fibres was shown by Deiters ^; it may be termed Deiters^ law. But the complete establishment of the principle dates from the discovery by Golgi of the silver chromate method.^ In his own hands and in those of Cajal, Kolliker, Retzius, and others the employ- ment of this method has led to a com- plete revolution in our ideas regarding the construction of the grey matter of the nervous system, which before Golgi's observations was commonly regarded as formed by a network of nerve-fibrils. Nerve-cells vary greatly in size, shape, and structural appearance. Their one con- stant character is the possession of a process which becomes a nerve-fibre, or rather the central (axial) part of a nerve-fibre ; this process of the cell is known as the axon. The term ‘ neuron ’ would have been more appropriate to designate the nerve-fibre process,® but this word (or the similar word ‘neurone’) has come into use in a different sense, viz. to denote the nerve-cell itself, including all its processes (Waldeyer, 1891), which should rather, in accordance with the established principles of histological nomenclature, be termed ‘ neurocyte.’ But the use of the word neuron or neurone for neurocyte has become so deeply rooted in the literature of the subject, that it would now be difficult to make a change. The term ‘ nerve-cell,’ on the other hand, is sometimes used to denote merely the enlarged part or body of the cell which contains the nucleus {'perikaryon of Sherrington) : it is unr use of the term ‘ cell ’ is logically indefensible. Fig. 321.—A nerve-cell from the cerebr.vl CORTEX. Golgi method. (Cajal.) a, basal dendrons; h, apical dendron; c, collaterals of axon ; e, axon ; p, apical dendrons ending in branches near surface of brain. essary to point out that such a restricted Sanger Brown has suggested the use of the ^ Unters. ii. Gehim. u. Riickenm. 18G5. ® Golgi, Gaz. med. lomb. 1873. See also his collected investigations, published in German in 1894, ^ Schiifer, Brain, xvi. 1893, p. 134. VOL. II. PART I. p