655 VESSELS AND NERVES OF OVARY The corpus liiteiim is at first sharply marked ofi by the theca folliculi from the surrounding ovarian stroma, but after a time it is less sharply marked off from the neighbouring parts of the stroma, into which it may be said gradually to merge and in this way to disappear. The result is that, as age advances, the stroma of the ovaries, at least in some animals, becomes gradually pervaded with cells which have been derived from corpora lutea. The corpus luteum is an organ of internal secretion. It appears to be related to the proper fixation of the ovum in the uterus, for if the corpus luteum be destroyed or the ovary removed at an early period of pregnancy, abortion occurs. At later stages it is related to the functions of the mammary gland, extracts of corpus luteum having a markedly galactagogue action. Fig. 952.—Section of ovaby of woman of fifty-six, showing degenekation of follicles AND SCLEKOSIS OF STROMA. (Sellheim.) Vessels and nerves of the ovaries.—Arteries. The ovary is supplied directly by the ovarian artery, analogous to the spermatic in the'male, which anasto- moses freely by an internal branch with the termination of the uterine artery. Some- times this anastomotic branch is so large that the ovary seems to be supplied almost entirely by the uterine artery. The ovarian artery always sends numerous branches to the Fallopian tube. The smaller arteries penetrate the ovary along its attached border, pierce the proper coat, and run in flexuous parallel lines through its substance. The internal part of the stroma through which the larger vessels run is known as the zona vasculosa. Both arteries and veins are extraordinarily numerous and convoluted, and the whole organ is exceptionally vascular. The veins correspond in general with the arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary named the 'pampiniform plexus. The general arrangement of the vessels within the organ and the manner in which the Graafian follicles and corpora lutea are supplied with blood is indicated in the accompanying illustration (fig. 953) from J. G. Clark (Johns Hopkins Hosp. Rep. ix. 1900). For details regarding the