258 NERVE-ENDINGS. connected with which are seen, as in the end-plate of the lizard, elongated nuclei different in appearance from the proper nuclei of the muscle. In other animals, e.g. in snakes, there is a tendency for the branches of the ramification to become dilated at their termination into bulbous enlargements, which in a well-stained pre- paration gives an appearance like that of a bunch of berries. Many other variations are met with, but in no case is there a departure from the general rule that the ultimate termination is in the form of a ramification of the axis-cylinder on the surface of the fibre, but within the sarcolemma. The neuro- fibrils penetrate into all the branches of the axis-cylinder, and form networks within its expansions (figs. 399, 400). According to Boecke,' they are continuous with a reticulum in the sarcoplasm. Boecke also describes an accessory fibre as sometimes passing inde- pendently to the same ‘ bed.’ These accessory fibres, which had previously been noticed by Perroncito and by Huber and de Witt, are non-medullated (fig. 400). The termination of motor nerves in special granular expansions within the sarcolemma was first noticed by Doyere in insect-muscles. The arborescent termination of the axis-cylinder was discovered in the frog by Kiihne in 1862. In the same year the end-plates were recognised by Rouget in the lizard, and in 1863 by W. Krause in mammals. The last-named observer was the first to describe the termination of the axis-cylinder as a ramified expansion imbedded in granular substance, but maintained that the whole structure lay outside the sarcolemma. In this opinion Krause was supported by Kolliker, but Kiihne and the majority of observers have regarded the whole end-organ as hypolemmal in position. Fig. 399.—Ending op a motoe neeve- FIBEE IN MUSCLE OP EABBIT. (Cajal.) a, axis-cylinder of entering nerve; h, c, terminal ramifications with net- work of neuro-fibrils. Fig. 400.—Muscle-pibees of mouse with fine additional FIBEE, passing TO END IN SMALL EETICULAK ENLAEGE- MENT, NEAE THE PEINCIPAL END-PLATE. (Boecke.) Magni- fied 1800 diameters. ?;t, main nerve-fibre; a, accessory fibre. Development,—The development of motor end-organs has been investigated by Boecke ' and Mays ^: their degeneration and regeneration after section of the motor-nerve by Cajal and * Anat. Anz. xxxv. 1910. - Zeitschr. f. Biol. xxix.