BLOOD-VESSELS 354 Formation in connective tissue.—One of the most favourable objects for the study of the development of the blood-vessels is afiorded by the subcutaneous tissue of the new-born rat, especially those parts in which fat is being deposited (Schafer). Here we may observe that many of the connective-tissue corpuscles are much vacuolated, and that the protoplasm of some of them has a decided reddish tinge (fig. 545, 7^). In others the red matter has become condensed in Fig. 545.—Development of vasofokmative connective-tissue cells into blood-vessels. Fkom the subcutaneous tissue of the new-bokn rat. (Schafer.) h, a cell containing hsemoglobin in a diffused form in the protoplasm; one containing coloured globules of varying size, and vacuoles; li'\ a cell filled with coloured globules of nearly uniform size; /, /', developing fat-cells; a, an elongated cell with a cavity in its protoplasm occupied by fluid and by blood-corpuscles which are still globular; 6, a hollow cell the nucleus of which has multiplied : the new nuclei are arranged around the wall of the cavity, the corpuscles in which have now become discoid. In c is shown the mode of union of a vaso- formative cell, which in this instance contains only one corpuscle, with the prolongation {hi) of a previously existing vessel, a and c, from the new-born rat; h, from the foetal sheep. V Fig. 54C.—Isolated capillary network formed by the junction of sever.a.l vaso- formative CELLS containing COLOURED BLOOD-CORPUSCLES IN CLE-AR FLUID. (Schiifer.) c, a hollowed-out cell which does not yet communicate with the network j), 2h pointed protoplasmic extensions growing out from the ncitwork. the form of globules within the cells {h', h'\ &c.), varying in size from minute specks to spheroids of the diameter of a blood-corpuscle, or more. At some parts the tissue is completely studded with these cells, each containing a number of such spheroids, and forming groups or ‘ nests ' of blood-corpuscles or minute ‘ blood- islands." The cells become elongated and pointed at their ends, and send out