5G8 LIVER the materials for secretion are derived directly from the blood itself, and do not pass to the cells through the medium of the lymph. As evidence that there is this free contact of the blood with the cells it is found that red blood-corpuscles occur occasionally (even in the normal liver) within the liver-cells, and that injection material driven even at a low pressure into the portal vein or into the aorta finds its way with great ease from the blood-channels of the lobule into the substance of the liver-cells (fig. 829 and accompanying Plate). This is rendered possible by the fact that the cells are permeated by fine branching canaliculi which communicate with the surface of the cells abutting on the sinusoids. This communication of intracellular channels with blood-vessels is, so far as is known, peculiar to the liver, although an intimate relationship between blood-capillaries and tissue-cells is common to nearly all internally secreting glands ; of which the liver, on account of its glycogenic and urea-forming functions, must be reckoned amongst the most important. Such relationship not only enables the cells of the organ to be directly nourished from the blood-plasma, but also adapts them for readily passing the products of their internal secretion into the blood-stream. The close relationship which subsists between the blood in the capillaries (sinusoids) of the liver and the hepatic cells is well shown in the figures of the accompanying Plate, which is reproduced from the paper by Herring and Simpson in the ‘ Proceedings of the Royal Society,’ B. vol. Ixxviii. In this plate figs. 1 and 2 are taken from the normal dog’s liver and show haemoglobin within some of the liver-cells : in most cases in the form of a crystal within the nucleus (which is elongated by the crystal). Pig. 3 represents a small portion of a section of cat’s liver, with sinusoid blood- channels between the cells. The endothelium of the sinusoid is defective, and is represented by partially detached cells, two of which, spindle-shaped in section, are seen projecting into the channel. These cells are phagocytic and contain granules of coloured matter which is probably derived from disintegrated blood-corpuscles. About a dozen erythrocytes are shown within the blood-channels. Pigs. 4 to 9 are all from specimens of liver injected with carmine-gelatine. The irregular nature of the sinusoid blood-channels, so different from the regular tubular character of ordinary blood-capillaries, is accurately portrayed in these figures, as is the presence of the injecting material in the interior of the cells, extending in several into actual contact with the nucleus. Of these figures, 4 and 5 are from the rat, and were injected from the aorta at a pressure of 80-100 mm. of mercury; 6 from the monkey, injected from the portal vein at a pressure of GO mm. ; 7 from the dog ; 8 from the cat; and 9 from the fowl. The last three were injected from the aorta at a pressure of 100 mm. In no case was this pressure exceeded ; in some instances the inferior vena cava was cut and left unobstructed throughout. The presence of the injection-material in the cells is therefore not due to extravasation caused by high pressure, but must have followed a natural channel. It is seen within the liver-cells in all well-injected specimens, provided the sections are sufficiently thin for the cell-contents to be clearly shown. Pig. 10, which is from a case of chloroform- poisoning in a child, shows a liver-cell containing globules of fat (stained by osmic acid) ; these are in direct communication with fat in the interior of a blood-channel. The question of the relation of the hepatic cells to the blood-channels of the liver is dealt with in a complete fashion in the paper by Herring and Simpson, above referred to. The intracellular canaliculi in question were first described in sections of rabbit-liver by Schafer, in 1902, but the necessity of assuming a close relationship between the blood and liver-cells had been previously insisted on by Browicz, who appears to have been the first to describe blood- corpuscles and hscmoglobin crystals within the liver-cells.' Browicz also described canaliculi within the liver-cells (fig. 830), but failed to notice their relation to the blood-sinusoids. In icterus neonatorum he found crystals of biliiubin within the nuclei of cells. The passage of 1 Anz. a. Akud. d. Wiss. in Krakau, 1897, 1898, 1899, and 1905; Arch. f. inikr. Anat. Iv. 1900. C Fig. 830.—A cei.l fbom the HUMAN LIVEK IN A CASE OF JAUNDICE, SHOWING ENLAKGED INTHACELLULAR CANALICULI. (Browicz.) one of the two nuclei; r, part of the network of canaliculi within the cyto- Xilasm.