ENAMEL 499 minute nodules or globules of dentine, and hence named interglohular sjmces (fig. 726, c). The interglohular spaces, and the globules surrounding them, vary in size within wide limits. A layer, in which they are very fine—granular layer (fig. 721, gr.; fig. 723, 2)—is not uncommonly found towards the outer surface of the dentine. Snamel.—The enamel is the covering which encrusts and protects the ex- posed portion or crown of a tooth (fig. 722). It is the hardest of all the dental tissues, but is gradually worn down by protracted use. It is thickest on the grind- ing surface and cutting edge of the teeth, and becomes gradually thinner towards the neck, where it ceases. Bibra found it to contain 96’5 per cent, of earthy constituents, viz. phosphate of lime with traces of fluoride of calcium 89‘8, carbonate of lime 4*4, phosphate of magnesia and other salts 1‘3, and of animal matter 3‘5 per cent. Berzelius gave the proportion of carbonate of lime as 8, and of animal matter as only 2 per cent. C. Tonies obtained only the merest traces of animal matter from the enamel of adult teeth. In the deep part of the enamel minute fissures not infrequently exist, which run between clusters of the prisms down to the surface of the dentine (fig. 728); other much larger and more evident fissures are often observed leading down from the depres- sions or crevices between the cusps of the molar and premolar teeth. The surface of the enamel is marked by fine striations, due to the arrangement of the columns or prisms of which the enamel is com- posed. Sections of a tooth usually show coloured lines in the enamel parallel with the contour of the surface of the pulp (figs. 717, 720). These prob- ably represent successive layers of deposition of the developing enamel. The enamel-columns (figs. 728, 729) have the form of solid six-sided prisms. Their diameter is ordinarily about 0'005 mm. They are marked by frequent dark transverse shadings, which are usually ascribed to the existence of shallow constrictions along the fibres. Although this may be in part the cause, it is not improbable that the transverse markings are partly the result of the manner in which the prisms are built up in successive stages by the cells which pro- duce them, each marking representing the termina- tion of a stage. The inner ends of the prisms are implanted in minute hexagonal depressions on the surface of the dentine ; the outer ends are free, and, like the sections of the prisms, have, under a high magnifving power, a tesse- lated appearance (fig. 729, B). The prisms are united by a small amount of a substance which appears similar to the intercellular substance of epithelium, but is perhaps calcified. In marsupials and some rodents there are regular canaliculi in this interprismatic substance.* After exposure for a short time to the action of an acid, the enamel of newly formed or still growing teeth may be broken up, and its structural elements more easily distinguished (fig. 729, A). In broken enamel prisms thus treated a lonoi- tudinally striated structure has been described (Annell). 1 If or the cement-substance of enamel and the form of the prisms see Smreker 'Arch f mikr Anat. Ixvi. 1905 ; on the structure of enamel see also v. Ebner, ibid. Ixvii. 1905. * Fig. 728.—Thin section of the ENAMEL AND A PART OF THE DENTINE OF AN UNWORN TOOTH. (Kdlliker.) Magnified 350 diameters. a, cuticle of the enamel; b, enamel-fibres or columns with cross striae ; c, clefts in the enamel communicating with the extremi- ties of some of the dentinal tubules (c7). K K 2