LYMPPI-GLANDS 398 tlie gland; so that in these the medullary part is reduced to a layer of no great thickness hounding inwardly the cortical part. Throughout both its cortical and medullary parts the gland is pervaded by a trabecular framework which serves to support the proper glandular substance. The trabeculae pass inwards from the capsule (figs. 593, 595). They consist, in the ox and most animals, chiefly of plain muscular tissue ; in man, where they are much more delicate, of connective tissue, sparingly intermixed with plain muscle-cells. In the cortical part they are mostly lamellar in form, and partially divide the cortex up into separate nodules from 0.5 mm. to 1 mm. in diameter ; these nodules communicate laterally with each other through openings in the imperfect septa between them (fig. 595, a). On reaching the medullary part the trabeculae take the form of flattened bands and angular cords, and by their conjunction and reticula- tion form a freely intercommunicating mesh work throughout the interior. (In fig. 595 they are represented mostly as cut across.) In the interstices of the framework which is thus formed by the capsule and trabeculae is included the Fig. 595.—Section op a mesenteric gland of the ox. (After His.) Magnified 12 diameters. The section includes a portion of the cortical part, A, in its whole depth, and a smaller portion of the adjoining medullary part, B ; c, c, outer coat or capsule sending partitions into the cortical part, eventually forming the trabeculae, t, t, which are seen mostly cut across; d, d, the lymphoid tissue forming nodules in the cortical part, A, and reticulating cords in the medullary part, B ; I, I, lymph-sinus or lymph-channel, left white. proper glandular substance, which appears as a tolerably firm pulp, composed of masses of lymphocytes supported by reticular tissue, the two together forming the lym'pJioid tissue of the gland. In the cortex this tissue occurs, as we have seen, in the form of rounded nodules {cortical nodules or follicles) (fig. 595, A) ; in the trabecular meshes of the medullary part it takes the shape of rounded cords {lymphoid cords) joining in a corresponding network (fig. 595, B) ; and, as the containing meshes of the framework inter-communicate, so the contained gland-pulp is continuous throughout. But both in the cortical and the medullary parts, a narrow space (white in the illustrations, fig. 593, l.s ; fig. 595, I, 1) is left all round the gland-pulp, between it and the trabeculae, such as would be left had the pulp shrunk away from the inside of a mould in which it had been cast. This space forms a channel of passage for the lymph that goes through the gland ; it is named the lymph-sinus, or lymph-channel (fig. 593). It is traversed by somewhat coarser reticular tissue than that which is seen in the pulp. The reticulum in some glands is rather a spongework than a network;