243 IIISTOaENESJS OF NERVES So far as is known, this is the only mode of development of nerve-fibres viz. as outgrowths from neuroblasts—and they always, whether in the nerve-centres or in the nerve-trunks, at first appear as pale fibres, destitute botli of neurolemma and of medullated sheath. % This doctrine of the outgrowth of nerve-fibres from nenroblasts was originally formu- lated by AV. His, whose classical researches on the subject are well known,* and have been confirmed by nearly all modern investigators. F. M. Balfour - thought that the nerve-fibres are produeed by the union of cells in ehains, the cells passing out from the neural canal in a sort of bud-like growth. But it is now usually held that these are ‘ lemmal ’ or sheath-cells, and are concerned in the formation of the sheath of Sehwann. Some observers ^ still think that the peripheral nerves are developed either from or within a syncytium of neuroblasts : Gurwitsch * believes the syncytium to be formed of mesoderm elements along which the axons of the neuro- blasts grow, and which become the cells of Schwann’s sheath. But the preponderance of evi- dence is in favour of an ectodermic origin, both of the axons (a point which is conceded by nearly all authorities) and of the sheath-cells. The mode of formation of Schwann’s sheath s, s', sheath of Schwann with nuclei; 6, growing ends of main branches of fibres; /, lateral fibrils. from the sheath-cells has been studied by Bardeen.^ According to Hardesty,® there are sheath- cells even within the central nervous system, although not apparent until the nerve-fibres are medullated. But since there is no sheath of Schwann on the fibres of the brain and cord, the cells described by Hardesty are probably of the nature of giia-cells. A few authors, however (amongst them Sedgwick,^ Graham Kerr,® and Held®) still hold the opinion which was originally put forward by Hensen,'® that the connexion between nerve-cell and muscle-fibre or other peri- pheral element is primary, and that the intervening nerve-fibre has become as it were spun out in the process of growth by the gradual separation from one another of the elements which it connects. Bht this view is not supported by the ordinary elective methods of staining nervous elements, and is at variance with many well-ascertained facts relating to the structure and functions of the nervous system. Recently Harrison has supplied an objective demonstra- tion of the outgrowth of fibres from nerve-cells by the study of isolated neuroblasts of the tadpole in which he has been able to observe the growth of the axon proceeding under the microscope. It is also seen in the growth of nerve-fibres in the tail of the amphibian larva (fig. 381).“ ^ Unters. ii. d. erste Anlage d. Wirbelthierleibes, 1868; Abliandl. d. Kcinigl. Siichs. Gesellscliaft, 1886, 1888, and 188U ; Arch. f. Anat. 1890. ^ Phil. Trane, clxvi. 1875 ; and Comparative Embryology. O. Schultze, Arch. f. mila-. Anat. Ixvi 1905 ; H. Held, Anat. Anz. xxx. 1907. * Arch. f. Anat. 1900. ^ Amer. Journ. Anat. ii. 1902-3. ® Amer. Journ. Anat. iv. 1905. ' Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xxxvii. 1894. ® Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. xli. 1903-4. ® Arch. f. Anat. 1907. Virch. Arch. 1864. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. iv. 1907. Cf. also the same observer’s experiments showing growth of nerve- fibres into grafted limbs (Amer. Journ. Anat. vi. 1907 ; Journ. Exper. Zool. iv. 1907). K 2