WALLERIAN DEOENERATION 246 fatty granules, and sometimes droplets of myelin (fig. 383, A). About tlie fourth day the nuclei are seen to be multiplied,* but not to any great extent (C) ; and the whole of the myelin after four or five days is broken up into drops, some larger, some smaller. The axis-cylinder is also found to be interrupted at numerous places, and remains only in the shape of short fibres, often curled round at their broken ends, enclosed in the large drops of myelin (B). Eventually these portions Fig. 383.—Degeneration and regeneration of nerve-fibres in the rabbit. (Ranvier.) A, part of a nerve-fibre in which degeneration is commencing in consequence of section (fifty hours previously) of the trunk of the nerve higher up; my, medullary sheath becoming broken up into drops of myelin ; p, granular protoplasmic substance which is replacing the myelin ; n, nucleus, not yet multiplied; g, primitive sheath. B, another nerve-fibre in which degeneration is proceeding, the nerve having been cut four days previously. This specimen is differently prepared from the others, so as to exhibit the axis-cylinder (c/y) also partly broken up into portions of different lengths, enclosed in the myelin, my. C, more advanced stage of degeneration, the medullary sheath having in great measure disappeared, while several nuclei {n", n”) have been formed by division of the single nucleus of the internode. D, commencing regeneration of a nerve-fibre. Several small nerve-fibres {f, t"), have sprouted out from the enlarged cut end {h) of the nerve-fibre (f); a, an axis-cylinder, which has not yet acquired a medullary sheath ; s, s', primitive sheath. also may disappear. The myelin at length becomes almost entirely removed, probably through the agency of phagocytic leucocytes, until nothing remains of it except a few isolated drops, which escape absorption, and all that then remains of the original fibre is the neurolemma, which is occupied by a protoplasmic mass containing an increased number of nuclei. During the disappearance of the myelin from the nerve-fibres the cells of the tissue in the neighbourhood of the fibres become charged with fatty granules, which have probably become formed ’ The multiplication is effected by karyokinesis, Cr. C. Huber, Arch, f. mikr. Auat. xl. 18h‘2.