TEETH 492 The ridges are covered with a thick stratified epithelium, and at their sides numerous taste-buds are imbedded in this epithelium (fig. 716). There is no definite papilla foliata in the human tongue, but in a situation similar to that in which the papilla foliata occurs in animals the mucous membrane often exhibits a number of low ridges, and is beset with taste-buds.' THE TEETH. A tooth is usually described as consisting of three portions, viz. one which projects above the gums and is named the body or crown ; another fixed in the alveolus or socket, the root, consisting of a fang or fangs; and a third, intermediate between the other two, and, from being usually slightly constricted, named the neck. The size and form of each of these parts vary in the different kinds of teeth (see Vol. IV. of this work). The roots of the teeth are accurately fitted to the alveoli of the jaws, in which they are implanted. Each alveolus is lined by periosteum {dental periosteum, 717,4), which also invests the contained tooth as high as the neck, and is blended above Fig. 716.—Vertical section of papilla foliata of the rabbit, passing across the FOLIA. (Ranvier.) p, central lamina of the coriuin; v, section across a sinus-like vein, which traverses the whole length of the folium; p' lateral lamina in which the nerve-fibres run; g, taste-bud; n, sections of nerve-bundles ; a, serous gland. with the dense tissue of the gums. The fangs of all the teeth taper from the cervix to the point; this form, together with their accurate adjustment to the alveolus, has the effect of distributing the pressure during use over the whole socket, and of preventing it from bearing on the point of the fang, through which the blood- vessels and nerves enter. On making a section of a tooth, it is found to be hollow within (figs. 717, 718). The form of the cavity bears a general resemblance to that of the tooth itself ; it occupies the interior of the crown, and extends along each fang, at the point of which it opens by a small orifice. In the incisor teeth the cavity is prolonged above into two tapering canals, which proceed one to each corner of the crown ; in the bicuspid and molar teeth it advances a short distance into each cusp. In the case of a root formed by the blending of two or more fangs, each division has a separate canal prolonged to its apex. ^ On the phylogenesis and comparative anatomy of the lingual papillte see B. Haller, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiv. 1909.