484 MAMMARY GLAND around the areola ; from this plexus venous branches course radially over the surface of the gland. The lymphatics arise from sinus-like spaces surrounding the alveoli (as in other racemose glands). These sinuses anastomose to form an open network. From all parts of the gland the efferent lymphatics converge towards the areola, where they form a subareolar plexus. From this plexus two vessels, which may ultimately unite into one, convey the lymph laterally towards the axillary glands, receiving in their course numerous tributaries. Other lymphatics from the mesial part of the mamma pass to the sternal lymph-glands along the internal mammary artery. Many of the lymphatics are perivascular (Stiles). The nerves of the mamma pass partly to the skin and the subcutaneous plain muscular tissue, partly to the blood-vessels and glandular tissue. Tac- tile corpuscles occur in the papillae of the nipple, and Pacinian corpuscles under the areola. In the glandular tissue nerve-fibre termina- tions are seen amongst the cells (Dmitrewsky), but the secretion is not under the direct influence of nerves like that of the salivary glands. It appears to be stimulated by “ hor- mones ’’ circulating with the blood. Such hormones can be extracted from the infundibular portion of pituitary body, from corpora lutea, from the involuting mucous membrane of the uterus, and from the lactating gland itself.' Fig. 701.—Section from the same gland as that shown in PIG. 697. (v. Ebner.) Magnified 110 diameters. h, connective tissue; d, undeveloped alveoli; d\ partiallj^ developed alveoli; g, blood-vessels ; m, portion of larger duct with two-layered epithelium. Development of the mammary g-land,—In embryo-mammals, at an early period, a line of thickening of the epidermis—the mammary line—is seen along the lateral wall on each side of the body, extending from the axilla to the groin. This thickening soon disappears except at certain places, where the future mammary glands are to be developed. The first sign of the gland shows itself at the end of the second month in the human embryo (Rein) in the shajie of a thickening and downgrowth of the rete mucosum of the epidermis at the site of the future nipple. The thickening spreads laterally so as to correspond with a small area (mammary area), which soon becomes sunk below the general surface. From the thickened rete mucosum of this area special outgrowths of the epithelium into the cutis vera occur, one for each of the lobes of the future gland. These outgrowths, as with other racemose glands, become branched, and their branches end in enlargements. The formation of these sprouts goes on until birth, but the development of glandular alveoli from them docs not occur until the approach of puberty in the female, and in the male not at all. The projection of the nipple from the rest of the mammary area does not begin until about the first year after birth ; within it a large amount of plain muscular tissue becomes formed. The remainder of the mammary area becomes the areola. ^ Ott ami Scott, Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. Dec. 1910 ; Schiifei' and Mackenzie, Proc. Roy. Soc. March 1911.