DEVELOPMENT 511 *"disappears on the emergence of the tooth beyond the gum. Besides this epithelial cap, and underneath it, there is found a very thin membrane, which is more persistent, and which covers the crown of the tooth for some little while after emergence (fig. 727, e). This is Nasmyth's membrane, or the enamel-cuticle (see p. 500)according to v. Brunn, it is the last formed keratinous layer of enamel, which has remained uncalcified. It has usuaUy been considered (Tomes, Waldeyer, and others) that the enamel-prisms are formed by direct calcification in situ of the inner ends of the ameloblasts, the outer nucleated end crrowin.^ pari passu with the inner, which has been converted into enamel. But the view euL d. qd.. Fig. 745.—Longitudinal section of the lower p.\rt OF A GROWING TOOTH, THE CROWN OF WHICH IS FORMED, SHOWING THE EXTENSION OF THE LAYER OF AMELOBLASTS BEYOND THE CROWN TO MARK OFF THE LIMIT OF FORMATION OF THE DENTINE OF THE ROOT. (Rose.) p., pulp; 0(7., odontoblasts; iZ., dentine; en., enamel; 0(7., ameloblasts, continuous below with ep.scli., the epithelial sheath of Hertwig. Fig. 746.—Section similar to that SHOWN IN FIG. 745, BUT FROM A TOOTH MORE ADVANCED IN GROWTH. (Rtise.) ep.sli., epithelial sheath ; ep.'sh'., rem- nants of this, overlying dentine of fang ; 2).,- pulp ; 0(7., odontoblasts ; (7., dentine. stated in the text is probably correct, viz. that the layer of ameloblasts sheds out a substance within which calcareous matter is subsequently deposited ; the enamel-prisms being formed rather as a secretion from the ameloblasts than by transformation in situ.' Formation of cement.—The roots of the teeth begin to be formed shortly before the time for the emergence of -the crowns beyond the gum, but they are not completed until long after the crowns have come through. They are deter- mined in their form—moulded, as it were—by a growth of the epithelium of the dental germ, which extends in the form of a fold, the epithelial sheath of Hertwig (figs. 745, 746), towards the future apex of each fang (v. Brunn). On the inner surface of this sheath odontoblasts form dentine, as in the crown, and thus the root is gradually produced. The epithelial sheath becomes gradually atrophied and ' See on the development of enamel H. Ganzer, Anat. Anz. xxviii. 1906.