VEINS 389 Muscular tissue is wanting, or very scanty, in the following veins: viz. (a) those of the maternal part of the placenta ; (?>) most of the veins of the pia mater ; (c) the veins of the retina ; (d) the venous sinuses of the dura mater ; (e) the cancellar veins of the bones ; (/) the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. In most of these cases the veins consist merely of an endothelium and a layer or layers of connective tissue more or less developed ; in the corpora cavernosa the endothelium is applied to the trabecular tissue. It may be added that in the Fig. 523.—Tr.\nsvebse section of portal vein OF DOG. (Mann.) Stained by Weigert’s method for elastic fibres. a, tunica intiina; h, tunica media; c, tunica adventitia, with large bundles of non-striped muscle cut transversely and imbedded in dense white fibrous tissue. thickness of their coats the superficial veins surpass the deep, and the veins of the lower limbs those of the upper. Valves. — Most of the veins, especially the superficial ones of the extremities, are provided with valves, a mechanical contrivance adapted to prevent the reflux of the blood. The valves are formed of semilunar folds of the internal coat, strengthened by included connective tissue, and pro- j ecting into the vein. Most commonly two such folds or flaps are placed opposite each other (fig. 524, a) ; the convex border of each (which, accord- B c Fig. 524.—Diagram showing valves OF VEINS. (Sharpey.) A. Part of a vein laid open and spread out, with two pairs of valves. B. Longitudinal section of a vein, show- ing the apposition of the edges of the valves in their closed state. C. Portion of a distended vein, exhibiting a swelling in the situation of a pair of valves. ing to Haller, forms a parabolic curve) is connected with the side of the vein ; the other edge is free, and points towards the heart, or at least in the natural direction of the current of the blood along the vessel, and the two flaps incline obliquely towards each other in this direction. Moreover, the wall of the vein immediately on the cardiac side of the curved line of attachment of the valves is dilated into a pouch or sinus (fig. 524, b), so that, when distended with blood or by artificial injection, the vessel bulges out on each side, and thus gives rise to the appearance of a knot or swelling wherever a valve is placed (as in fig. 524, c). From the above description, it is plain that the valves are so directed as to offer no obstacle to the blood in its onward flow, but that, when from pressure or any other cause it is