CELL-DIVISION B9 and the nucleus accordingly exhibits a much larger proportion of that element than the nucleo- proteins of cell-protoplasm, which, as just stated, are combinations of nuclein with protein, and contam much less nucleic acid. There further enters into the composition of nuclein a sufficient amount of iron to bo detected in the nuclear chromatin by its micro-chemical reactions.* These reactions are not obtainable from the nucleo-proteid of the cell-substance, probably on account of the relatively small proportion in which iron is present in this. Iron can, however, be detected in considerable amount in the substance of certain cells, such as those of the liver and spleen, but it does not there form a part of the constitution of the protoplasm. In these places it is present in the form of an inorganic combination and not of an organic compound, as in nuclei. In the former case a direct test for ferric oxide will exhibit its presence, but m the latter case the organic compound must be broken up by the action of a mineral acid before the presence of iron can be shown.- Some light is thrown upon a possible mode of formation of the appearances of resting nuclei by the experiments of W. Berg,® upon the behaviour of nucleic acid and protamines examined in microscopic drops under a high power of the microscope, both when mixed together in different proportions and when their compounds are treated with water and fixative reagents. Berg describes the mixing of solutions of nucleic acid and protamine as producing a precipitate at first composed of solid globules, which become hollow. These run together where they come in contact with one another, to form a sort of froth, which gradually becomes homogeneous by disappearance of their vacuoles. If nucleic acid be now allowed to pass under the cover-glass the homogeneous masses become vacuolised ; if protamine solution is substituted for the nucleic acid solution, they become again homogeneous. Reagents which withdraw water cause de- vacuolisation of the vacuolised nucleate of protamine. Addition of water reverses this process. Various changes are also produced in nucleate of protamine by fixatives. But certain fixatives cause no artificial structural change in this substance. This was found by Berg to be the case with osmic acid fixation. THE DIVIDING CELL. Cells multiply by division of pre-existing cells. The division of the cell proto- plasm is preceded by that of the nucleus, and this by that of the centriole : in this sense the last-named particle may be said to initiate the division of the cell.^ AMITOTIC CELL-DIVISION. By Kemak and the older histologists of the middle of the nineteenth century the division of a cell was described as produced by a simple separation of the nucleus into two parts, preceded by a similar division of the nucleolus. The separation was generally assumed to be produced by the pressure of the encircling protoplasm, this being followed by an elongation of the cell and a passage of the daughter-nuclei to opposite ends, this again by a constriction of the cell-body pinching the original cell into two, each containing one of the daughter-nuclei. There seems reason still to believe that this simple or amitotic method of division occurs in some cells; although it is difficult to be quite sure in all instances, unless the process can be watched from beginning to end, that karyokinetic changes, such as those immediately to be described, have not taken place rapidly and been missed. But in most cells it is impossible to follow the changes of cell-division in the living state, although in some they can be imperfectly seen. The usual method of studying the changes is to fix and stain the tissue and from the various phases of division which the cells exhibit to infer the order of change which actually occurs. And since * A. B. Macallum, Quart. Journ. Micr. Science, xxxviii. 1895. Macallum found less iron in the substance of the nucleolus than in the chromatin of the nucleus. The presence of iron in nucleo-proteins had previously been shown by Bunge and others. The importance of this fact is etnphasised by the observation of Spitzer (Pfluger’s Arch. Ixvii. 1897) that the oxidising enzyme of the cell (oxidase) is associated with those constituents of the products of cleavage of the nucleo-proteins which contain the iron-group; this points to the cell-nucleus being the oxidising organ of the cell (J. Loeb, Zeitschr. f. Entwicklungsmechanik, viii. 1899). - Macallum, op. cit. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixii. 1903 and Ixv. 1905. ^ The fact that in very many plant-cells no centriole can be detected, although the formation of a division spindle and all the other phenomena characteristic of mitotic cell-division occur, shows that this body is not essential to cell-division. But an attraction-sphere (centrosome) is present in all.