480 THE MAMMARY GLANDS and adipose tissue, which, with the supervention and progress of pregnancy, gradually disappears and gives place to the growing gland-tissue. Each mam- mary gland is composed of some fifteen to twenty separate racemose glandules, the ducts of which {lactiferous ducts) open separately at the apex of the nipple, each in a small depression. As they pass towards their orifices each duct exhibits a spindle-shaped enlargement known as the lactiferous sinus or ampulla (fig. 695) ; at the orifice the duct is again constricted. The aggregation of the glands forms the so-called corpus mammce : the individual parts of this are separated from one another by interglandular connective tissue. This connec- tive tissue may, as already stated, contain a considerable amount of fat, but Fig. 695.—Dissection of the lower half of the female mamma during the period of LACTATION. (From Lusclika). §. VI, undissectecl part of the mamma; 1, the mamilla; 2, areola; 3, subcutaneous masses of fat; 4, loculi in the connective tissue which supports the glandular substance; 5, three lactiferous ducts passing towards the mamilla where they open ; 6, one of the sinuses or ampullse; 7, some of the glandular lobules which have been unravelled; 7', others massed together. fat is absent in and under the nipple and areola—the pigmented area of skin which immediately surrounds the nipple. In the latter part of pregnancy and during lactation the whole mamma is glandular in appearance, the connective- tissue stroma being greatly reduced in amount. After the cessation of lactation a process of involution succeeds, the mamma becoming again less glandular and the stroma relatively more developed ; usually also there is more fatty tissue than before. Underneath the areola there are a few accessory glandules, constructed on the same principle as the mammary glandules proper, but quite small; they open on the skin of the areola, not at the apex of the nipple. A number of large sebaceous glands also open on the skin of this region; some in conjunction with the accessory glandules and independently of hairs. The mamma in the male sex has the same parts as in the female, but in an entirelj^ rudimentary condition, the gland being very small; the nipple is usually the only external sign of its existence. Rarely, it has been found to undergo enlargement and to furnish a serous fluid ; in ver}’ rare cases it has secreted milk.