NERVE-CELLS 211 granular appearance, and takes origin in a portion of the cell-body which is also free from obvious granules [cone of origin of the axon) (see Plate opposite p. 212). The dendrons usually branch in a spreading manner and with frequent bifurcations. Sometimes they may remain unbranched for a certain distance, as with the distal dendrons of many of the pyramid cells of the cerebral cortex. Occasionally they are beset with minute spinous projections (fig. 323), which are believed to make connexion with collaterals of other cells.' Sometimes they assume a moniliform character, but this may be the result of the mode of preparation. It is most frequently seen in preparations stained by Ehrlich’s method (fig. 322). The dendrons usually conduct nervous impulses towards the cell-body and the axons conduct away from it, but the fibres of the dorsal roots form an important exception to this ‘ law of conduction.’ All nerve-cells have a relatively large and conspicuous nucleus, but the proportionate amount of basi-chromatin which the nucleus contains varies. The Fig. 324.—Nerve-cell op Lophius with gap in membrane of nucleus opposite centrosome. The Nissl granules appear to be forming at this part. (Holmgren.) nucleus is generally spherical and clear, with little or no obvious reticulum, but with a very distinct nucleolus, sometimes more than one. Appearances have been described which are interpreted as indicating an extension of nucleolar substance into the protoplasm.^ Occasionally the nucleolus has been observed to be con- nected with a chromatin fibril (fibre of Koncoroni, 1885), extending into the cytoplasm.^ The nucleus usually lies in the middle of the cell-body, which also contains a centrosome (fig. 324) ; sometimes more than one.'* In many nerve-cells the protoplasm of the cell-body is markedly granular in appearance. This is due to the presence of angular groups of basiphil granules, which occupy the cytoplasm between the neuro-fibrils,’^ and which stain intensely with methylene blue (see slightly withdrawing or projecting its processes, like an amoeboid cell, and thus diminishing or increasing the capability of the synapses (see p. 213) for conduction (Rabl-Riickhard, Neurol. Centralbl. ix. 1890 ; Duval, C. r. Soc. biol. 1895). The suggestion is criticised by Kblliker (Wiirzburg Sitzungsb. 1895). * Cajal, La Cellule, 1891; Berkeley, Anat. Anz. xii. 189G ; A. Hill, Brain, xx. 1897. 2 E. Holmgren, Anat. Hefte, xii. 1879; Page May and Walker, Quart. Journ. Exper. Physiol, i. 1908. ^ E. Mencle, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixviii. 190G. ^ Biihler, Wiirzburg Verhandl. xxix. 1895 ; Deliler, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvi. 1895 ; v. Lenhossek, ihid.; M. Lewes, Anat. Anz. xii. 189G ; E. Holmgren, Anat. Hefte, xii. 1899 ; Kolster, ibid. xvi. 1901; H. Fuchs, ibid. xxi. 1903; N. Van der Stricht, Bull, de I’acad. royale de medecine de Belgique, 190G. ^ W. H. Cox, Anat. Hefte, x. 1898.