DEVELOPMENT 141 are included in and finally blend with those which had belonged to the mother-cells. The matrix, although thus formed of the capsules, usually becomes to all appearance homogeneous ; but in sections of cartilage that have been exposed to certain reagents, the contour lines of the capsules round cells and cell-groups may, as already stated, be more or less distinctly brought into view. Division of the cartilage-cell takes place by karyokinesis. Schleicher^ has succeeded in following the stages of the process in the living tissue (fig. 226). The mode of division of the cytoplasm is difierent from that which obtains in most animal cells, for in place of a constriction appearing and gradually separating the protoplasm into two halves from without in, a partition is formed (e), in the middle of the now elongated cell, as is commonly the case in the division of plant-cells. The septum, as soon as it is broad enough, is seen to consist of two layers, which are continuous with the capsules of the two daughter-cells (/). In the case of elastic cartilage the matrix is at first hyaline, and the elastic fibres are subsequently produced in it. They appear in the form of fine granules (termed by Hansen ‘ albumoid ") in parts of the matrix which are in contiguity Fig. 226.—Division of a cartilage-cell. (Schleicher.) a-h, stages of division of a cell, as seen in the living cartilage of the salamander (the chromosomes are only indistinctly seen in the fresh condition), a, b, stellate phase; c, d, com- mencing separation of the chromosomes ; the further stages of separation are not represented; e, filaments fully separated into two groups, and a septum beginning to be formed between them ; /, septum completed, seen to be double and continuous with capsules of daughter-cells; g, h, further stages in the formation of the daughter-nuclei. with the cartilage-cells, but extend into other parts which are quite remote from the cells, around which clear matrix becomes subsequently formed. In the cartilage of the external ear in man this change occurs about the fifth month of intra-uterine life, commencing in the more central parts, and gradually extending outwards towards the perichondrium. The elastic fibres have been stated to be formed directly from the protoplasm of the cartilage-cells,'^ but their formation apart from the cells can be easily verified in the arytenoid cartilage of the calf. The mode of development of white fibro-cartilage has not been fully ascertained, but it is stated that the fibres are formed at the same time as the matrix, instead of subsequently as in the case of elastic cartilage. The vital changes which occur in cartilage appear to be sluggish, and when a portion is absorbed in disease or removed by the knife, it is regenerated very slowly. A wound in cartilage is usually at first healed by connective tissue, which becomes gradually transformed into hyaline ' Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xvi. 1878. ^ O. Hertwig, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. ix. 1872 ; L. Gerlach. Morph. Jahrb. iv. Suppl. 1877.