472 HAIRS root-sheath at about the level of the orifices of the sebaceous glands. In the tactile hairs {sinus-hairs) of animals the follicle is partly surrounded by a blood-sinus, which lies between the outer and middle layers of the dermic coat.’ The nerve-fibres to the arrector muscles are derived from the sympathetic. Development of hair in the foetus.—The rudiments of the hairs may be discerned at the end of the third or beginning of the fourth month of intra-uterine life, as little black specks beneath the cuticle. They are formed of thickenings of the rete mucosum, which soon slant obliquely into the corium (fig. 685). There is no projection of the horny layer at the surface. When these down-growths first occur (fig. 685, a), they present an appearance which recalls that of certain small tactile patches, supplied with nerve- fibres, found in the skin of amphibia and some reptiles. Two thickenings early show themselves on the down-growing follicle-rudi- ment ; one of these represents the place where the sebaceous glands will subsequently be developed, the other forms the so-called ‘ hair- bed ’ or ‘ hair-matrix,’ and represents the germ of the secondary hair which will replace the first one. It is seen in the fully developed hair-follicle in the neighbourhood of the attach- ment of the arrector pili. A homogeneous limiting membrane encloses the collection of cells ; this is continuous above with a similar- simple film which at this time lies between the cuticle and the corium ; it becomes the innermost or hyaline layer of the dermic- coat of the follicle. The hair-rudiment next lengthens and swells out at the bottom, so as to assume a flask-shape, and becomes fitted over a papilla which has been formed in the subjacent corium. Outside the limiting- membrane, the fibres, corpuscles, and other constituents of the dermic coat of the follicle, as well as the arrector muscle, become formed from mesoderm. 2 While this is going on out- side the follicle, the cells within it, which at first were uniform in appearance, are found to have undergone changes, having become trans- formed into the layers of the root-sheath and the miniature conical hair. The inner root- sheath, lying next to the hair (fig. 686, I'), is distinguished by its translucency from the more opaque outer part that fills up the rest of the cavity. The hair and the inner root-sheath are formed from the cells which cover the top of the papilla. These acquire eleidin-granules, and also, in the case of those which produce the hair, pigment-granules. The eleidin-granules are stated by Ranvier to occur only in the cells that form the medulla of the hair and in those Fig. 686.—Developing haib fbom a HUMAN EMBBYO OF 4i MONTHS. (Ranvier.) papilla; /, liair-rudinient; i, cells forming inner root-sheatli; 7c, keratinised portion of inner root-sheath, remaining uncoloured by carmine ; e, external root- sheath ; b, epithelial bed, for insertion of arrector pili; s, sebaceous gland; t, se- baceous matter forming independently in the part which will become the neck of the follicle. ' See on the structure of sinus-hairs, Tretjakoff, Anat. Anz. xxxvii. 1910. - Stdhr, Anat. Hefte, xxiii. 1903. This paper contains many important details, as well as the history and literature of the subject up to that date. See also Oyama, ibid.