ENDINGS IN SENSE-ORGANS 283 Fig. 449.—Section of a taste-bud of the RABBIT. (Ranvier.) XJ, gustatory pore with hairlets; r, a susten- tacular cell; s, a gustatory cell; m, a granular leucocyte; n, nerve-fibres , e, stratified epithelium. and also in annelids such as Lnmbricus, in which all the sensory cells of the in- tegument lie amongst the ordinary epidermis-cells (fig. 447), with a short rod-like process extending towards the free surface and a relatively long nerve- fibre process (axon) passing into the gangliated cord which represents the central nervous system, and there end- ing in extended ramifications. In worms, such as Nereis, somewhat higher in the scale than the earthworm (fig. 447) the nucleated body of the sensory nerve- cell lies already below, i.e. deeper than the epidermis-cells, and its peripheral process is elongated to form a fi.bre which is inserted between those cells. It is only in vertebrates that the recipient sensory neurones for the general integmnent have their cell- bodies grouped into special ganglia lying close to the central nervous svstem. mode of ending- of g-ustatory nerves.—The nerves which minister to the sense of taste terminate by arborisa- tion amongst certain specially modified epithelium-cells in the lining membrane (mucous membrane) of the mouth and fauces. These specially modified cells are collected into bud-like masses {taste-buds) (fig. 449) which lie in and entirely fill cavities within the thickness of the stratified epithelium covering the mucous membrane. These cavities communicate with the interior of the mouth by a small aperture termed the ‘ gustatory pore," and into this project minute rod-like processes from certain cells of the taste- bud which are known as the gustatory cells, and which mainly occupy the central part of the taste-bud, whilst the more superfi.cial part is composed entirely of long tapered cells, some- what flattened conformably to the external sm-face of the taste-bud, and termed the covering or sustentacular cells. The gustatory cells are long narrow cells with a prominent nucleus near the centre, a straight or slightly curved unbranched peripheral process terminating in the small rod just mentioned, and a fine centrally directed process which is often branched and which reaches the base of the taste-bud. It was at one time believed to be in continuity with the nerve-fibres of the taste- bud, but this is not the case. These nerve- fibres—which are mainly derived from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, but some of which come from the chorda tympani of the facial and perhaps others from the fiifth nerve—originate in ganglion-cells (like those of IN AND AROUND TWO TASTE-BUDS OF RABBIT. Golgi preparation. (G. Retzius.) n, nerve-bundle ; h, a taste-bud (the cells are not represented); i, ending of nerve-fibrils within taste-bud; p, ending of fibrils in epithelium adjacent to taste-bud; s, sulcus, on the sides of which the taste-buds are set.