ISLETS OF LANGEFHANS 561 use of the Golgi silver-chromate method (hg. 816, A), and with a high magnifying power the canaliculi can be seen penetrating not only between the cells of the alveoli, but, according to some authors, even into the interior of the cells (B)d Blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves.—The arteries of the pancreas are derived from the splenic and hepatic divisions of the coeliac axis, and from the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. Its veins are tributaries of the splenic and superior mesenteric, and therefore belong to the portal system. The lymphatics pass to some of the neighbouring coeliac glands. Their arrangement within the pancreas is similar to that found in the salivary glands. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus, and accompany the arteries to the organ. They are almost exclusively non-medullated and have minute ganglia on them as they traverse the gland. Besides these ganglia, small stellate cells, said to be of nervous nature, are found upon the nerves near their distribution to the epithelium-cells of the alveoli, over and betw^een which the nerve-fibrils ultimately ramify, as in the salivary glands.^ Islets.—The islets oj Langerhavs, which, as above mentioned, are peculiar to the pancreas, consist of a variable number of irregular clumps of epithelium-like protoplasmic cells lying in the interalveolar tissue of the pancreas; they are gener- ally most numerous in the part of the organ which is near the spleen (Opie). In hsematoxylin preparations of the gland they are less stained than the alveoli. In injected prepara- tions they are distinguishable by the large size, irregular shape, and convoluted arrangement of their sinus-like capillaries (fig. 817), which penetrate between the epithelium-cells of the islet, so that the walls of the capillaries come into actual contact with these cells.^ Tlie nerves of the islets also have a different arrangement from those of the acini,while the epithelium-cells are clearer than those of the alveoli, and the granules they contain are finer. According to Lane,'^ there are two kinds of cells in'the islets, having granules of different chemical nature. Fig. 817.—Injection of blood-vessels of an ‘ islet ’ OF the pancreas. (Kiihne and Lea.) The relationship between the islets and the glandular substance of the pancreas is not fully cleared up. According to most authors, the islet tissue is directly continuous with the alveolar tissue, and the islets may during life become formed at the expense of the alveoli or vice versa. Thus H. Dale '* found that when the pancreas is stimulated to activity by means of secretin the islets become greatly increased in size and number, whereas in the resting pancreas they are small and relatively few. Dale also found the i.slet tissue similarly increased after a period of hunger,' from which it would seem that activity of the gland is not alone a sufficient explanation ^ Cajal and Sala, Tral). d. lab. d. liist. d. Barcelona, 18!)1; E. Miiller, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xl. 1892 • S. Dogiel, Arch. f. Anat. 1898. On tlie structure of the ducts of tlie pancreas see K. K. Hellv Arch f' inikr. Anat. lii. 1898. ’ ' Cajal and Sala, (p, cit 1907. j and Statkewitsch (Arch. - (le Witt, Journ. Exj). Med. viii. 1906 (reconstruction-study). ‘ Pensa, Internat. Monatscli. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxii. lOO.'l. Anier. Journ. Anat. vii. ioc '' Phil. Trans. B. cxcvii. 1904. Lewaschew (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxvi. 1886 f. exp. Pathol, xxxiii. 18<)3) had previously arrived at similar conclusions. ■ Rennie, however, could determine no such increase in a snake which had fasted for many months Intern. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxvi. 1909. ^ Hiomms VOL. II. PART I. 0 0