71 CILIA rheotaxis when caused by moving fluid, and geotaxis when due to gravity or attrac- tion towards the earth’s centre. The enveloping of solid substances by amoeba) or leucocytes is an instance of thigmotaxis, the movement of the spermatozoa along the Fallopian tubes is probably an instance of rheotaxis (since it is a movement in a contrary direction to that of the current produced by the cilia lining those passages), and the tendency of various free-moving organisms to accumulate either at the top or at the bottom of a vertical column of liquid is an instance of geotaxis (negative or positive) when not due to a mere diflerence of specific gravity or to the chemotaxis of the oxygen of the air. It is, however, in the vegetable kingdom that most examples of thigmotaxis and geotaxis are met with. The same is the case with the influence of light {'phototaxis), in which numberless instances m plants of movements of their parts towards or away from this source of stimulation at once suggest themselves. Finally may be mentioned the phenomena of thermotaxis—i.e. the movement of protoplasm and of protoplasmic free-moving organisms towards or away from a source of heat. With slight raising of the temperature the movement is usually positive, but with . higher temperatures it is almost invariably negative. All influences which produce contraction (coagulation ?) of protoplasm are productive of katabolism or disassimilation ; while those which produce relaxation (liquefaction ?) result in anabolism or assimilation. If assimilation and disassimilation are equally balanced throughout the condition is one of quiescence (Hering). The relation of assimilation to disassimilation during the unit of time is termed by Verworn ‘ biotonus,’ and is expressed by the fraction ‘ It is the variations in this fraction which produce all change in the vital manifestations of an organism ; when there is complete equilibrium - = 1.’ A stimulus is an agency which produces disturbance in the condition of equilibrium. There is, moreover, a constant tendency in the organism to revert spontaneously from conditions in which a or d preponderate to a state of equilibrium ; this property of protoplasm is termed by Hering ‘ spontaneous regulation ’ (Selbststeuerung). Such return to equilibrium is accompanied by active manifestations of a reverse character to those which previously obtained. In this way Hering explains the physiological ‘ rebound ’ which shows itself in all protoplasmic tissues which have been the subject of disturbances in their metabolic equilibrium.' Ciliary movement.—Another form in which the activity of protoplasm manifests itself is that known as ciliary movement. This was discovered in the mussel by de Heide in 1683, but the movements of spermatozoa had previously been noticed by Ham and Leewenhoek. Ciliary action consists in the (apparently) spontaneous waving motion of fine processes which project freely beyond the cyto- plasm : the processes are termed cilia (fig. 112). The movement is much more rapid in character than amoeboid movement, and has usually a definite direction and a regular rhythm. It is generally, at least in the ciliated cells of the higher animals, a simple bending over of all the cilia which crown the cell, followed by their return to the vertical position; but in many of the lower organisms, and especially in those which are unicellular, the movement is less regular ; in many it exhibits a spiral or corkscrew-like character. ^ Cilia serve very varied purposes in the animal economy. In spermatozoa and in some infusorial animalcules they are organs of locomotion ; in other animals they serve to direct currents of water containing food to the alimentary canal; in others they similarly direct currents of water over the surface of the gills. In man, where they occur exclusively in connexion with epithelium-cells, their purpose seems always to be (except in the case of the spermatozoa) to produce a movement of ^ See Hering, Zur Theorie der Vorgiinge in der lebendigen Substanz, Lotos, 1888; also Verworn, Die Biogenhypothese, 1903, and Allgem. Physiol. 1908.