62 VITAL PHENOMENA OF PROTOPLASM fact that just as much protoplasm is being broken down and removed from the cell as is added by the process of assimilation. A cell may also increase in size by the formation and accumulation of non-living material within it: in this case the accumulating material may be formed at the expense of the protoplasm, which may first grow and then break down to produce the non-living substance. Chemical processes which involve the building up of living material within a cell have received the general name of anabolic changes ; those on the other hand which involve the breaking down of such material into other and simpler products are known as katabolic. By the metabolism of a cell is understood the sum of all the ana- and kata-bolic changes which are proceeding at any time within it. Amoeboid movements. — The most obvious physical changes seen in living protoplasm are those which are designated ‘ amoeboid.'’ This term was derived from the freshwater amoeba, the protoplasm (or sarcode) of which has long been known to exhibit spon- taneous changes of form, accompanied by a flowing or streaming of its soft semifluid substance (fig. 99). The phenomenon was described by Kosenhof in the ‘ proteus animalcule ’ in 1755, but the similar movements of the cell- protoplasm of the higher animals was only recognised much later (in 1845) by Wharton Jones, who noticed the amoeboid movements of the white blood-corpuscles of fish. If the protoplasm of the cell is enclosed by a membrane its movements are necessarily confined within the limits of such cell-wall, and the actual changes which are in these cases obser- vable consist in a streaming or flowing of the soft living substance, such flowing being rendered obvious by the carrying along by the stream of any minute particles which may be imbedded in the proto- plasm. The term ‘ rotation " has been given to a movement of this kind which is observed in many plant-cells such as those of the hairs of Tradescantia (fig. 100), and which is of a very regular character, usually in a determinate direction; but in animal cells the intrinsic streaming movements are less regular and usually less obvious in character. It is, however, on the other hand, in those animal cells which are unprovided with a cell-wall (free or naked cells) that what may be termed the amoeboid movements proper present themselves, and in none more strikingly than in the white blood-corpuscles (leucocytes). If one of these be observed under a high power of the microscope it will be seen gradually to protrude a portion of its protoplasm at one part or another, and sometimes at several places simultaneously (fig. 101). The protrusions may at first consist only of the clearer portion of the protoplasm (hyalo- plasm), subsequently the less clear part (spongioplasm) may extend into them Fig. 100.—A cell of a Tkadescantia hair, A, IN NORMAL CONDITIONS ; B, AFTER THE PASSAGE OF AN ELECTRIC SHOCK. (Verworu, after Kiihne.) a, cellulose wall; h, partition between two cells; c, collection of the protoplasm into clumps as the result of stimulations. The large spaces contain cell-sap.