404 DEVELOPMENT OF LYMPH-GLANDS invested by mesenchyme, which forms a fibrous and muscular capsule surrounding the plexus and sends trabcculce into the intei’ior of the developing gland ; from these trabeculse fibrillar extensions pass into the lymphoid tissue to form its reticulum. The vessels of the lymphatic plexus become dilated to form the lymph-sinuses; into the spaces thus produced mesenchyme penetrates and forms the reticulum which bridges across the sinuses. The mesenchyme - cells and some of the endothelial cells re- main as branched cells ; these in places cover the reticular tissue in the fully formed organ. The cortical nodules become produced, as already mentioned, by an increased 603), but the latter are not Fig. 602.—Di.4gbam of a developing lymph-gland in a pig- embryo 70 MM. long. (Sabin.) Magnified 33 diameters. The lymphatics are in solid black; the connective-tissue bridges are dotted. proliferation in the situation of the future germ-centres (fig. distinct during foetal life.‘ They also disappear in old age. Kding describes the lymphatic vessels in the human embryo as growing into the vascular blastema of the developing gland at the future hilum and there forming plexuses, which become dilated into sinuses in its interior and a marginal sinus at the circumference, while the vessels at the hHurn retain their plexiform and tubular character and become the efferent vessels of the gland. The first glands to appear are those of the groin, axilla, and neck. Others appear later at the elbow, knee, along the course of the aorta and at the root of the mesentery.^ In the embryo of the pig Miss Sabin ^ finds the first sign of the development of lymph-glands in connexion with the sac-like dilatations (p. 362) near the four original points of outgrowth of the lymphatics from the venous system (fig. 550, S ; fig. 601, l.h). These dilatations are homologues of the lymph-hearts of lower vertebrates, but do not pulsate.^ The primitive lymph-glands develop in connexion with a close plexus of lymph-vessels that make their appearance at the apex of each of these dilatations. According to Miss Sabin three types of lymph and haemal glands become eventually formed, viz.; (1) those which are formed of a mass of lymphocytes supported by a reticulum and collected around a capUlary network which is furnished with an artery and vein (lymph-nodules); (2) those in which this vascular lymphoid tissue is enclosed by a lymph-sinus (lymph-glands); and (3) those in which it is enclosed by a blood-sinus. The last form the hiemal glands; the spleen is similar in mode of origin. Lewis, who investigated the development of the lymphatic system, chiefly m rabbits, describes more numerous connexions with the venous system than are admitted by Miss 8abin. He states that the first lymph-glands develop along the course of cutaneous veins, and are superficial, the deep glands at this stage being represented merely by lymphoid ^ Baum and Hille, Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908. " Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1904. op- cit. See also Rep. Coll, of Phys. Edin. 1891. / I Fig. 603.—Diagram of developing lymph-gl.and FROM A PIG-EMBRYO 130 MM. LONG. (Sabin.) Magnified 33 diameters. Four follicles are shown. Each is supplied by a separate branch of the artery which is furnishing capillaries to the follicles. (7., artery; a.l, afferent lymphatics; e.l, efferent lymphatics; /, follicles. 1909. Gulland, ' Ainer. Journ. Anat. iv. 1904, and ix. 1909. This opinion is contested by F. T. Lewis (Amer. Journ. Anat. v. 190.7). See also Anat. Record, iii.