291 ENDINGS IN SENSE-OEGANS the bipolars and the rod- and cone-cells on the one side and the bipolars and ganglion-cells on the other. The rod- and cone-cells (fig. 461) are the receptive sensory neurones. They are composed of a nucleated body (outer granule), an outer or peripheral process, and an axon or nerve-fibre process (central process, rod- or cone-fibre). The peripheral process is either rod- or cone-shaped, forming the so-called rod or cone, the rods being most numerous except at the central area of the retina (yellow spot) : they are imbedded in the pigmented epithelial layer (fig. 460, a), which produces during life chemical changes in the rods (formation of visual purple) : accompanying these chemical changes the pigmented part of the epithelium-cell moves nearer to the bodies of the rod- or cone-cells, or is withdrawn farther from them, according to whether light falls upon the retina or not (see p. 100). It is probably upon the outer fart or segment of the rod or cone (which exhibits a special structure as if built up of minute superposed discs) that the light-waves impinge Fig. 462.—Section of ketina of bird. Golgi method. (Cajal.) A, B, C, spongioblasts or amacrine cells of inner molecular layer ; D, bipolars, sending axons into inner molecular layer to form synapses, a, b, with dendrons of ganglion-cells (not repre- sented), and dendrons sent into outer molecular layer to form synapses with the rod- and cone-fibres; E, a fibre continued beyond the outer molecular layer; F, G, rod- and cone- nuclei ; H, I, spongioblasts of outer molecular layer ; J, a fibre of Miiller. and set up the excitation which produces the nervous impulses. The inner segment of the rod or cone is fibrillated, the fibrils being perhaps neuro-fibrils. The central process of the rod- or cone-cells is a nerve-fibre (axon), itself fibrillated, which extends towards the bipolars to meet peripherally extending processes (dendrons) from those cells in the outer molecular layer; here the two sets of processes undergo synapsis (fig. 463). The bifolars, as their name implies, have two processes, one just mentioned, passing peripherally into the outer molecular layer, the other passing to the inner molecular layer and there forming a synapse with processes (dendrons) of the cells of the ganglionic layer (fig. 463); some pass through the inner molecular layer to apply themselves to the cell-bodies of the ganglion-cells. The cells of the ganglionic layer, much larger in most parts of the retina than the bipolars, have also two sets of processes : the one just mentioned forming synapses in the inner molecular layer with the axons of the bipolars, the other being a single axon from each cell, and forming one of the fibres of the innermost layer u 2