AREOLAR, TISSUE 108 in it, its physical and chemical characters become altered and the mucin becomes replaced by collagen, 5delding gelatin on boiling. Different as the several varieties of connective tissue appear in their fully developed condition, they are all, as above stated, produced from the same embryonic formation, and, in different kinds of animals, are often found to replace one another. Moreover, where they come into juxtaposition they frequently pass by a gradual transition the one into the other, so that there can be no doubt Fig. 169.—Cornea of rabbit, stained with silver nitrate. Magnified 300 diameters. Photographed from a preparation by H. Pringle. The cells are unstained, and appear as white spaces on a brown ground. Compare with fig. 176, in which the corneal cells are stained. about their close affinity. The affinity is, however, greater between the areolar, fibrous, and elastic tissues than between these and cartilage or bone. Ketiform (including lymphoid tissue) and adipose may be regarded as modifications of areolar tissue, but they differ from it by the accumulation of cells which have a special function ; this accumulation may occur to so great an extent as to obscure the original structure of the tissue. AREOLAR TISSUE OR CONNECTIVE TISSUE PROPER, Areolar tissue is the most widely diffused of all the connective tissues. It is the fleecy-looking material which is seen when the skin is reflected, and from its property of binding or connecting the several parts and organs of the body together the generic name of connective tissue (German, ‘ Bindegewebe ’) has been derived. It also enters into the composition of most organs of the body, forming a kind of framework which supports and connects the other tissues and conducts vessels and nerves to the proper elements of the organ, as in the muscles and secreting glands. Areolar tissue differs considerably in consistence in different parts, and in different animals. In some animals, including man, it is of a tough, fibrous- looking texture, composed of thin laminae which interlace with one another, leaving interstices (areolae) between them. These interstices intercommunicate throughout the tissue, and hence it happens that if air or liquid be forced into the tissue at any one part it may spread over a considerable space. In the young subject in man and some animals, and in other animals throughout life, the laminae of this tissue are less tenacious, and the tissue is softer and almost jelly-like or semi-fluid in con- sistence : this difference is due to the fact that in the one case there is a greater development of fibres in the ground-substance than in the other. The areolae of the tissue are moistened naturally with lymph; they are larger and the tissue is