635 MALE UKETHEA and prepuce, and also underneatli the mucous lining of the urethra. They pass chiefly into the inguinal glands. Deeper, subfascial lymphatics are also described as arising in the skin of the glans penis and from two well-marked plexuses in the lateral fossa of the frenulum; they pass backwards on the dorsum of the organ with the subfascial vein to enter the inguinal glands. The nerves of the penis are derived from the dorsal and superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve and from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. The former are distributed to the skin and mucous membrane, the latter entirely to the cavernous and spongy bodies. Some of the fibres end in the epidermis, others in the epithelium and mucous membrane of the urethra. Simple and compound end-bulbs (genital corpuscles) and Pacinian bodies are also found. Many of the nerve-fibres pass to the muscular tissue of the blood-vessels and trabecula). UHETHRA OF THE MALE. The male urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis. Its total length when moderately stretched is 18 to 20 cm. In sections across the penis the walls of the canal are in close apposition, the outline of the .urethral cleft being vertical or ±-shaped in the glans (figs. 913, 914), transverse in the body of the penis (fig. 915), stellate in the membranous part, and crescentic about the middle of the prostatic part (fig. 925). Its diameter when moderately distended differs at different parts. The wall of the tube con- sists of a mucous membrane, supported by an outer layer of submucous tissue connecting it with the several parts through which it passes. In the submucous tissue plain muscle occurs throughout the whole extent of the urethra (Zuckerkandl), the inner fibres dis- posed longitudinally, the outer in a circular direction. But the muscular coat completely encircles the tube only as far as the openings of the glands of Cowper, and is mainly longi- tudinal. In front of that situation the muscular fibres are confined to the upper and lateral walls. Herzog failed to find muscular fibres in the part within the glans. The lining membrane of the prostatic portion of the urethra is thrown into longitudinal folds, when not distended by fluid. Towards the neck of the bladder a slight elevation on the posterior surface passes back into the uvula vesicse. Somewhat in advance of this, and continued from it along the floor (posterior wall) of the passage, projects a narrow median ridge which gradually rises into a peak, and sinks down again at its anterior or lower end ; it is formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and subjacent tissue. This is the crista urethrce or colliculus seminalis. On each side of this ridge the surface is slightly depressed, so as to form a longitudinal groove, named the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is pierced by numerous foramina, the orifices of the prostatic ducts. Through these a viscid fluid oozes out on pressure. The ducts of the middle lobe open some above the urethral crest, and some below it. The mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra is covered by an epithelium like that of the bladder. At the fore part of the most elevated portion of the crest, and exactly in the middle line, is the orifice of a blind recess, upon or within the lateral margins of which are placed the slit-like openings of the common seminal or ejaculatory ducts, Fig. 925.—Teansverse section of the URETHRA THROUGH THE PROSTATE GLAND. (Allen Thomson.) n, the urethra into which the eminence of the caput gallinaginis rises from below ; s, the utricle cut through ; d e, the ejaculatory ducts; m, superiorly, the deep sphincter muscular fibres ; ?h, lower down, intersecting muscular bands in the lateral lobes of the prostate ; p, glan- dular substance of prostate.