‘226 NERVE-CELLS Fig. 352.—A ganglion-cell within its she.\th : from the human SYMPATHETIC. (Key and Retzius.) Highly magnified. cells. The largest nerve-cells which are known are those which give origin to the electric nerves of Malapterurus. These are large enough to be easily visible with the naked eye, and the cell-body is excavated with hollows and passages into which blood-vessels for the nutrition of the cell penetrate. The cells of the sympathetic ganglia of man and mammals are always multipolar,* with an axon and several dendrons. Occasionally, as in the spinal ganglia, there are also a number of short processes con- fined within the capsule (fig. 351). The cell-body is usually of an angular form with rounded angles. It is invested by a nucleated mem- branous sheath, which is continued over the issuing cell-processes (fig. 352). The axon is traceable to its termination as a pale (non-medullated) nerve-fibre : it sometimes, but rarely, becomes thinly medullated.^ The cells vary greatly in size, probably in conformity with the length of their axons. In the rabbit, hare, and guinea-pig there are two nuclei in each sympathetic cell (Huber). The dendrons rarely extend beyond the confines of the ganglion in which the cell-body lies: they may end by ramifying around other cell-bodies in the ganglion. The cells of the sympathetic ganglia serve as distributing stations for the nerve-fibres which enter and end in the ganglia. The entering nerve-fibres are generally of the fine medullated variety; these are derived from, cells of the lateral horn and neigh- bouring part of the grey matter of the spinal cord and corresponding situations in the grey matter of the medulla oblongata. On entering the ganglion in which they are to terminate they ramify amongst the Fig. 353.—Two cells from a sympathetic ganglion of MAN, SHOWING THE ENDING OF AFFERENT FIBRES («) AROUND THE CELL-BODIES AND AXONS {b\ (Cajal.) ^ In amphibia they may be unipolar; L. Beale, Phil. Trans. 18(33; Huber, Journ. Mor})h. 1889. - Huber, oji. cit.; Langley, Journ. Physiol, xx. 1890.