CORPORA CAVERNOSA 631 septum resemble somewhat the teeth of a comb \ hence the partition has received the name of septum pectinijorme. The external fibrous investment of the cavernous structure (tunica albuginea) is white and dense, from one to two millimetres thick, and very strong and elastic. It is composed for the most part of longitudinal bimdles of shining white fibres, with a moderate number of elastic fibres, enclosing the two corpora cavernosa in a common covering ; internal to this, each corpus cavernosum is surrounded by a layer of circular fibres, which enter into the formation of the septum. From the inside of the fibrous envelope, and from the sides of the septum, numerous lamellse pass into the interior of the corpus cavernosum, and there join the bands and cords composed of fibrous elastic and plain muscular tissue, named trabeculcE, which run through and across the cavity in all directions, thus sub- dividing it into a multitude of intercommunicating spaces, and giving the entire structure a spongy character (fig. 918). The trabeculae, whether lamelliform or cord-like, are larger and stronger near the circumference than along the centre of each cavernous body; they also become Fig. 920.—Portion of the erectile tissue op the CORPUS CAVERNOSUM MAGNIFIED, SHOWING THE AREOLATED STRUCTURE AND THE DISTRIBUTION OF AN ARTERIOLE. (J. Muller.) a, a small artery supported by the larger trabecnlie, and branching out on all sides; c, the tendril-like arterial tufts or helicine arteries of Miiller; d, the areo- lated structure formed by the finer trabeculie. Fig. 921. —Helicine arteries with their SHEATHS, AS SEEN WITH A LOW POWER. (Henle.) A and B, from the corpus cavernosum penis ; D, from the corpus spongiosum ure- thras ; C, transverse section of one of the helicine arteries; in this and the other figures the smaller lateral prolongations of the arterial vessels into the sheath are shown; * *, fasciculi of connective tissue passing off from the summit of two of the sheaths. gradually thicker towards the crura. The interspaces, conversely, are larger in the middle than near the surface ; their long diameter is, in the latter situa- tion, placed transversely to that of the penis ; they become larger towards the fore part of the penis. At many places there are projections from the trabeculae into the spaces; these are mainly formed of muscular tissue (fig. 919). The spaces are occupied by venous blood, being in reality large cavernous veins, and are lined by a layer of endothelium similar to that lining other veins. The intertrabecular spaces thus form a labyrinth of intercommunicating venous areolae divided by the trabecular tissue, and opening freely from one corpus cavernosum to the other through the septum, especially in front. The blood is