127 ADIPOSE TISSUE alongside of the minute blood-vessels of thin membranous parts (see upper figure of accompanying Plate). In well-nourished bodies the fat-cells are round or oval (fig. 207 and Plate) unless where packed closely together, in which case they acquire an angular figure, and bear a striking resemblance to the parenchymatous tissue of plants. The greater number of fat-cells are from '04 mm. to '08 mm. in diameter, but many exceed or fall short of this measurement. Each one consists of a delicate covering (fig. 207, m), enclosing the oily matter (/.^/O* It often happens that a part of the fatty contents solidifies in the cell after death, forming a bunch of delicate needle-shaped crystals (cr). The covering of the oil-drop is the remains of the original protoplasm of the cell: it is generally quite transparent and of great tenuity, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the nucleus. The latter (n) is always present, but is often so flattened out by the pressure of the enclosed oil-drop as to be visible only with difficulty.* The oil-drops are stained black with osmic acid (fig. 208). Areolar tissue connects and surrounds the larger lumps of fat, but forms no special envelope to the smaller clusters; and although fine fasciculi and filaments of that tissue pass irregularly over and through the clusters, yet it is probable that the vesicles are held together in these groups largely by the fine Fig. 208. — Fat-cells fbom YOUNG ANIMAL. Osmic-acid preparation. (Ranvier.) The drops of fat are stained of an intense black. nucleus; g, small globules of fat. Fig. 209.—Fat in mesentery of rabbit. (From Prenant, Bouin, and Maillard.) V, network of capillary vessels ; g, fat-globule; n, nucleus of fat-cell; p, protoiilasmic envelope to fat-globule. Numerous mast-cells are seen: in some of these there appears to be occurring a deposition of fat. network of capillary vessels distributed to them. In the marrow the connective- tissue fibres are very fine and take the form of a reticular tissue (fig. 201). ^ Rabl (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvii. 1890) and de Almeida (Anat. Hefte, xii. 1899) have observed fat- globules within the nucleus of the fully developed fat-cell.