VESSELS OF SPECIAL PAETS 341 thickenings of the elastic lamina are as a rule confined to its outer side. Further, the lamina is apt to split up into two or more layers whenever there is need for counteracting an excessive amount of pressure, as, for example, at points where branches are given off, or where two vessels come together as Avith the vertebral arteries, and also along the concave side of a bent vessel. The adventitia never possesses the elastic lamina which in other arteries separates the muscular middle coat from the fibrous outer coat (see fig. 515). In the larger vessels the adventitia is composed internally of dense circular connective tissue and externally of loose wdiite fibrous tissue, with bundles of non-striped muscle running longitudinally. The cerebral veins resemble one another in the following points : The endothelium cells have large nuelei, and lying immediately outside the endothelium is a thin structureless membrane which does not give the reactions of either elastin or elacin, and stains with both aeid and basic dyes. The wall in all the veins is thicker on the side next to the brain than on that next to the arachnoid. The wall in the veins under the fornix is thicker next to that structure than next to the roof of the third ventricle. The larger veins may show from six to eight lamellse of connective tissue running alter- nately longitudinally and transversely. Smooth muscle-fibres occur in all the larger and middle-sized cerebral veins scattered about amongst the white fibrous bundles, espeeiaUy in proximity to the internal elastic lamina, the direction of the fibres being either transverse or oblique. In the middle-sized veins only a few muscle-fibres are found, but they are present even in the vena terminalis; in veins within the brain- substance muscle is very rarely seen. The elastic tissue is in the form of very fine fibres, forming in the middle coat a delicate network with no definite direction, the number of fibres being in inverse ratio to the muscle ; the elastic fibres in the external eoat are thicker, and run for the most part circularly. In the large superficial veins the wall abutting on the pia contains much less elastic material than does the other wall, while in the internal cerebral veins the side next to the ventricle is richer in elastic tissue than is the other side. Very little elastic tissue is present in the inferior cerebral veins, and still less in the vena terminalis, while in all the smaller vessels no elastic tissue is present, though the vessel may be surrounded by several layers of white fibrous tissue. The dural sinuses exhibit on their inner aspect, outside the endothelium, a dense meshwork of elastic fibres, and have the Avhite fibrous tissue united into thicker bundles. The vena cerebri magna has a well- marked network of elastic tissue, and contains in its wall a large number of vasa vasorum. The sinuses, especially the sagittal sinus, contain trabeculae within Inteelobular artery op the lumen kidney of monkey, showing the ELASTIC TISSUE TO EXTEND UP TO Blood-vessels Of the kidney.—The renal arteries the glomerulus, part op which is are remarkable for the great development of their indicated by the dotted line elastic tissue, and in animals injected with fixing fluids (Mann.) even slightly above normal blood-pressure, the renal Weigert s method for elastic tissue, artery is never found so completely dilated as to pre- sent a smooth inner surface (see fig. 512). This indicates a special mechanism for safeguarding the kidney against a sudden rise in blood-pressure, a conception which is still further supported by the fact that in the arterial system the internal elastic lamina is only represented up to the end of the afferent vessel in the glomerulus. There is not a trace of elastic material in the whole of the circulatory system in the cortex of the kidney beyond the afferent vessel referred to. Every provision is further made for the ready discharge of the blood which has jiassed through the glomerulus, the renal veins having relatively a very large lumen. The strong nature of the fenestrated internal elastic lamina of an interlobular renal artery is shown in fig. 525.