NUCLEOLUS 37 of the spongework are very large and the connecting strands are relatively fine, and in rare cases it is not possible to detect these strands at all, in which case the nucleus appears to contain clumps of chromatin suspended in its hyaloplasm {pseudonucleoli, fig. 55). Nucleolus (plasmosome, karyosome).—Most, but not all, nuclei exhibit, generally imbedded in a part of the karyomitome, but sometimes lying free in the karyoplasm, a very distinct and generally oxyphil body, known as the nucleolus, usually of globular shape and composed of more highly refractive material than the rest of the nucleus. The nucleolus varies greatly in size : it is usually quite structureless, but is sometimes vacuolated, and occasionally, in doubly stained specimens, the central part appears to be differently coloured from the peripheral part. ‘ The nucleolus is usually regarded as a product of nuclear metabolism, possibly formed by a transformation of the karyoplasm. It is occasionally double (fig. 62), and in large nuclei may be multiple (fig. 54). In many cells, especially those which are in active process of growth, or in functional activity, nucleoli and parts of nucleoli are observed to be extruded into the cytoplasm, to which they appear to furnish materials which become further metabolised {e.g. into secretion- granules and other products of cell-activity). Numerous observations of this character have been made by Montgomery,- and notices on the same subject have been more recently published by earlier® (in gland-cells), by Page May and C. E. Walker (in nerve-cells),^ by Walker and Embleton (in Hydra),® and by Walker and Tozer ® (in various vegetative cells). Montgomery is disposed to regard the extruded portions of nucleolus as degeneration products, and Carlier speaks of them as representing ‘ effete material ’ ; but Montgomery admits that they eventually merge into cell-protoplasm, and the observations of Walker show that they undergo a gradual change in staining reaction after extrusion and gradually assimilate themselves to the protoplasm. By Walker’s method of staining (combined acid and basic stain) the nucleoli were ■coloured by the basic stain whilst within the nucleus, and after extrusion their substance became more and more oxyphil. The extrusion of nucleolar substance may here have been accompanied by a passage from the nucleus into the cytoplasm of some of the basi-chroniatin of the karyo- mitome ; such passage has been frequently described independently of nucleolar extrusions (see p. 58). Another view which has been expressed regarding the nucleolus is that it represents an organ of the nucleus in which basi-chromatin is elaborated or manufactured, the basi-chromatin being transferred to the chromosomes, which thus increase in size at the expense of the nucleolar substance.^ The observations of Walker (see above) are somewhat in favour of a formation of basi-chromatin in the nucleolus, but in this case we cannot suppose that the material has to do with the growth of chromosomes, since it is extruded into the cytoplasm. According to the old conception of cell-division the nucleolus was regarded as the organ which initiates this process—a conception which has been now transferred to the centrosome. -Cases have however been recorded by modern observers in which the division of the nucleus has been preceded by that of the nucleolus. In amitotic division this is not uncommon, and it has also been observed in mitotic division.® Variations in nuclei.—In some cases, as in the spermatozoa, there is no appreciable achromatic material within the nucleus, which appears as a compact mass of nuclein, staining intensely with basic dyes. In other cells the nuclein has 1 According to Ferrata (Arch, di Fisiol. 1906) the centre only is oxyphil, the periphery basiphil, the relative proportion of the two parts being subject to variation. C. E. Walker and Tozer also figure nucleoli composed apparently of two different substances. But it is usually accepted that true nucleoli are composed mainly of oxyphil substance and stain with acid or neutral dyes; they may, how- ever, be covered by a basiphil envelope derived from the karyomitome. Sometimes the nucleolus has attached to it a small basiphil particle, which has been termed liciranucleolus. The meaning of this is unknown ^ Journ. of Morph, xv. 1898 (with literature to that date). ^ La Cellule, xvi. 1899; ibid. xxii. 1905; Inaugural Lecture, Birmingham, 1899; Proc. Scot. Nat. Hist. Soc. v. 1909. ‘ Quart. Journ. Exper. Physiol, i. 1907. ® Ibid. ® Ibid. ii. 1908; this paper also includes most of the literature. ' See, for a discussion of this view, T. H. Bryce in Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. xlvi. 1905, where references to the literature are given. ® See on this subject R. Metzner, og). fit. and M. Heidenhain, Plasma u. Zelle, p. 194.