CILIA 75 podia and serve to illustrate the close relationship which they bear to one another, although the character of their niovenients is usually so unlike.' Fig. 119.—Cili.\ted cells from epididymis of r.^bbit, with others not ciliated BETWEEN THEM. (v. Lenhossek.) The non-ciliated cells each exhibit a diplosome (double centrosome) at the basal border; in the ciliated cells this is not seen, but the basal border is occupied by the basal particles of the cilia. In Metazoa the cilia also grow out from the free surface of the protoplasm of the cell which is to become ciliated ; but each appears as a fine filamentous projection rather than as a pseudo- podium-like process. In many cases the appearance of the cilium at the surface of the cell is preceded by that of its basal particle, which closely resembles a cell- centrosome, and stains in a similar manner to that particle (fig. 119). But whether the basal particles are really derived from the original centrosome or not is still uncertain, for although Lenhossek - and Henneguy,'* who described this mode of development, failed to find the ordinary centrosome, and concluded that it had passed towards the free surface to become the first basal particle (the rest being presumably formed by its division), Gurwitsch was unable to trace any connexion between the centrosome and the formation of basal corpuscles, while Seleniewsky * describes and figures the ordinary centrosome in developing ciliated cells along with the basal particles.^ None the less it seems clear that the basal par- ticle is in its nature closely allied to the centrosome of the cell. For in the development of spermatozoa the tail fibril is known to grow out from the centriole, and even in dividing spermatocytes instances are met with in ■ which cilium-like fibrils are seen growing out from the centrosome at either end of the division- spindle (fig. 120). Fig. 120.—Centrioles with cilium-like fila- ments IN A SPERMATOCYTE OF PlERIS CRATEGI. (Gurwitsch, after F. Meves.) The protoplasm of the cell from which the cilia are growing has, like all cell-protoplasm, an external film, and the cilia as they are formed must also ' ‘The Protozoa . . . and numerous plant and animal sporoids present numberless instances of the gradual transformation of long pseudopodia into true vibratile cilia. An amoeboid filiform pseudopodiura may in the living object alter the character of its movement under the eye of the observer at first to a slow pendulum-like swing, which becomes more and more rapid until the vibratile action which is so characteristic of the cilium is completely developed ’ (Gurwitsch, Morphologie u. Biologic der Zelle, 1904, p. 59). - Verhandl. d. anat. Gesellsch., Anat. Anz. 1898. ^ Arch, d’anat. micr. i. 1898. ^ Anat. Anz. xxiv. p. 637. ’’ According to Gurwitsch (Anat. Anz. xvii. 1900; Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1901) the cilia sometimes make their appearance before the basal particles, being developed from a specially modified portion of the cell-protoplasm. Strasburger’s observations on the cilia of plant-spores show them to be developed as processes, at first amoeboid, from projections of the ectoplasm (Histol. Beitr. Heft vi. 1900).