THE VASCULAK SYSTEM: INCLUDING THE HEART, BLOOD-VESSELS, AND LYMPH-VESSELS. By professor GUSTAV MANN. The vascular system, or circulatory system, consists of the heart and blood- vessels, which are lined by specially modified connective-tissue cells, mesodermal in origin, which form the endothelium. Vessels are classified into arteries, which come from the heart and are on their way to the tissues ; capillaries, consisting of only a single layer of endothelium and in close contact with the tissue elements, which they nourish; and veins, by which the blood returns to the heart. From the veins are developed secondarily the lymph-vessels, as is more fully described later. THE HEART. Originally a single tube, the heart forms in the higher vertebrates an organ consisting of two auricles or atria and two ventricles, each of which has definite histo- logical features. The heart is surrounded by a special serous cavity, the pericardial space, which is an enlarged lymph-space and is lined by a single layer of endothelial cells. The serous membrane is reflected over the heart and becomes so firmly attached to the outer surface of the latter as to seem to belong to it; it is called the epicardium [visceral pericardium). The bulk of the heart consists of muscle, called the myoco.rdium\ while its interior is lined, as already mentioned, by a single layer of endothelial cells belonging to the endocardium or membrane lining the cavities of the heart, continuous with the intima of the vessels springing from it. Epicardium.—The epicardium (fig. 496) varies greatly in thickness according to position, being more developed along the course of the large coronary vessels, in which situation the adipose tissue also is especially abundant. Choosing a thin Fig. 496.—Epicardium over left ventricle. (Mann.) a, superficial endothelium; h, elastic fibres; from a to h tunica externa v. superficialis; c, tunica media, consisting of coarse tendinous bundles with a few elastic fibres; d, tunica profunda; e, blood-vessels, and /, fat-cells in the tunica profunda, which at g is continuous with the connective tissue of the myocardium, i. A small nerve, h, is seen in the tunica media. part over the left ventricle we find externally a single layer of endothelium, and next to it a not very sharply defined layer of connective tissue ; these form together the tunica externa. Between this layer and the tunica media, which contains small blood-capillaries, lymph-vessels, and nerves, is an ill-defined strand of elastic VOL. II. PART I. Y