91 CILIATED E PITHELIUM border of the cell a number of varicose filaments extend down towards the fixed end of the cell; these filaments were termed by Engelmann the rootlets of the cilia.' They approach one another as they traverse the length of the cell, and may be united towards the extremity into a single thread. They are not connected with the nucleus. The cilia are attached to the basal particles, each one by a somewhat narrowed portion. It is here that the cilia are usually broken off from the cell (see fig. 149). Beyond this neck the cilium may swell out into a small bulb or knob, and from this it tapers gradually to its extremity. The rootlets, as well as the cilia themselves, are, according to the observations of Engelmann,- doubly refracting (anisotropous), whereas the basal particle is isotropous. A similar structure, although less distinct, is also to be made out in ciliated cells of vertebrates (frog and mammal). In the human body and in mammals generallv cilia occur in the following parts—viz. : 1. On the mucous membrane of the air-passages and its prolongations. They commence at a little distance within the nostrils, cover the membrane of the nose (except the proper olfactory part) and of the adjoining bony sinuses, and extend into the nasal duct and lacrymal sac. From, the posterior nares they spread backwards on the upper surface of the soft palate, and over the upper or nasal region of the pharynx ; thence along the Eustachian tube and lining membrane of the middle ear, the greater part of which is ciliated. The lower part of the pharynx is covered by stratified epithelium; but ciliated epithelium begins again in the larynx a little above the glottis, and continues throughout the trachea and the bronchial tubes in the lungs almost to their smallest ramifi- cations. Over the vocal cords, however, the epithelium is of the stratified variety. 2. On the mucous membrane and in the glands of the body of the uterus, and extending along the Fallopian tubes, even to the peritoneal surface of the latter at their fimbriated extremities. 3. Lining the vasa efferentia and coni vasculosi in the testicle.' 4. Lining the true ventricles of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord. 5. In the ducts of certain small racemose glands of various parts (tongue, pharynx, &c.). 6. In the embryo, lining the oesophagus and parts of the stomach, and extending over the whole of the pharynx.^ Columnar ciliated epithelium may exist as a simple layer, as in the uterus and Fallopian tubes, the finest ramifications of the bronchia, and the central Fig. 150.—Four ciliated epithelium-cells OF MOLLUSC, SHOWING BASAL PARTICLES, ROOTLETS, CILIA, AND NUCLEI, (^v. Lenhossek.) ^ Pfliiger’s Archiv, xxiii. 1880. The filaments were also described by M. Nussbaum (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiv. 1877). See on this subject also p. 73. - Hermann’s Handbuch der Physiologie, 1879. ^ Cilia have also been described in some mammals at the commencement of the tubules of the kidney, a situation where in lower vertebrates they have long been known to exist; but it is doubtful if the brush-like border of the epithelium in this situation is formed of true cilia in mammals.