SUPRARENAL CAPSULE 683 from cells derived from sympathetic ganglion rudiments (see Vol. I., pp. 135, 205) ; these have been classified together by Kohn under the designation 'paraganglia and will be afterwards noticed.' Removal of the suprarenal bodies is in most animals speecUly followed by symptoms of extreme muscular prostration and, within a very few days, by death (Brown-Sequard, 1856). Disease of the organs is usually accompanied by the appearance of bronzed patches on various parts of the sldn and mucous membranes (Addison, 1855); the symptoms in advanced disease are similar to those resulting from removal. The watery extract of the medulla of the capsules contains a (non-proteid) substance which produces, when injected even in minute quantities into the blood-vessels of an animal, a great augmentation of the contraction of the muscular tissue of the heart and arteries (OHver and Schafer, 1894) and of most structures which receive their nerve-supply through the sympathetic (Langley). The cortex of the suprarenale is formed of polyhedral epithelium-cells varying in diameter from 0.0125 to 0.02 mm., massed together into columns incom- pletely separated from one another by the connective-tissue trabeculae which run between them and serve as a supporting framework (see Plate). The protoplasm of the cells is finely granular, and contains also small globules of a lipoid material, giving the cortex the yellowish colour which it exhibits in sections of the fresh organ. In some animals {e.g. guinea-pig) the cells of the zona reticularis contain brown pigment-granules. The cells are two or three deep in the glandular columns. Secretion-granules have been described within the cortical cells.^ No blood- vessels penetrate between them, the blood-supply of the cortex being confined to the connective-tissue septa; these septa also contain lymphatics, which are said to communicate with fine canals between the epithelium-cells (Klein). The arteries of the cortex pass into it from the capsule, breaking up into capillary-like channels in the septa. The capillaries form a network surrounding the cell-columns of the zona glomerulosa and zona fasciculata ; these vessels open into a venous plexus situated in the zona reticularis. This plexus communicates with that of the medulla and also, on the inner side of the organ, with the central vein which emerges from the medulla. A few arterioles pass from the capsule through the cortex directly to the medulla.'' The zona glomerulosa is in man occupied by cells which are similar to those of the rest of the cortex. But in some animals, such as the dog and horse, the cells of this zone are long and columnar, and arranged so as to enclose a kind of lumen (fig. 986). The zona reticularis is characterised by its more open arrangement, due to the plexus of sinus-like veins it contains ; which receive, as just noted, the blood that has traversed the capillaries of the rest of the cortex. Felicine^ states that fine particles of China ink can pass between the cortical cells from the vessels, showing that the capillaries of the cortex have incomplete walls, as in the liver : if so, they are probably of a sinusoid nature like those of the medulla. This is certainly the case in the embryo (Luna). The lymphatics of the cortex enter it from the fibrous capsule, where they form a network; this communicates with vessels which run in the septa between the cell- columns of the cortex to join the lymph-vessels in the walls of the medullary veins. The suprarenal capsules of the human foetus are of unusually large size. This is almost entirely due, according to Elliott and Armour,® to hypertrophy of an inner part of the cortex. ^ See on the structure of the suprarenal capsules Colson, Arch, de biol. xxv. 1910 ; Disse, article ‘ Nebenniere ’ in v. Bardeleben’s Handb. d. Anat. 1902 ; A. S. Dogiel, Arch. f. Anat. 1894 (nerve-endings); G. Dostoiewsky, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxvii. 1886; Elliott and Tuckett, Journ. Physiol, xxxiv. 1906; J. M. Flint, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Rep. ix. 1900, and Anat. Anz. xvi. 1899 (framework); Romeo Fusari, Arch. ital. de biol. xvi. 1891 (nerve-endings); Guarneri and Magini, ihid. x. 1888 ; E. Luna, Anat. Anz. xxxiii. 1908; Marchand, Virchow Festschrift, i. 1891; C. Martinotti, Ann. di freniatr. iii. 1891- 1892 ; Mattei, Giornale della R. Accad. di Med. di Torino, xlix. 1887 (plain muscle); C. S. Minot, Proc. Amer. Assoc, for the Adv. of Science, vol. xxxiv. (morphology); Pfaundler, Sitzungsb. der Wiener Akad. cl. 1892 (vessels); Hans Rabl, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxviii. 1891 • (suprarenal of bird); H. D. Rolleston, Joum. of Anat. and Physiof. xxvi. 1892, Brit. Med. Journ. i. 1895; Swale Vincent, Intern. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xv. 1898, and Ergebn. der Physiol. 1910; H. Stilling, Virch. Arch. cix. 1887. - Da Costa, Anat. Anz. xxxi. 1907. ^ Srdinko, Abstr. in Zentralbl. f. Anat. iv. 1907. ‘ Anat. Anz. xxii. 1902, and Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1903. “ Journ. Path, and Bact. xv. 1911.