THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. Both in general structure and in mode of development the lungs resemble secreting glands, the chief difierence being that the comparatively thick proto- plasmic cells of the alveoli of secreting glands become represented after birth in the pulmonary alveoli by a very thin flattened epithelium, which can only be brought clearly to view by the use of the silver-nitrate method. The ducts of a secreting gland are represented in the lungs by the trachea and bronchi with all their ramifications in the substance of these organs. A section of developing lung is in fact by no means unlike a section of a developing tubulo-racemose gland, as may be seen by referring to fig. 854. The function of the lungs in respiration necessitates rhythmic changes in their volume, and this is permitted by their enclosure within the thorax, all the changes of volume of which they readily and uniformly follow. The outer surface of the lung glides over the inner surface of the thoracic cage by virtue of the fact that the cavity in which the lung lies is lined by a serous membrane (pleura) which is reflected over its surface. Each lung is there- fore free to move except at the part on its inner surface, the hilum or root, where this reflection occurs, and there the bronchi and the blood- and lymph-vessels and nerves enter or leave the organ. The upper end of the trachea at its opening into the pharynx is modified to form the larynx or organ of voice. The structure of this will be first considered. THE LARYNX. The larynx is formed of a number of separate cartilages held together by fibrous tissue and capable of being moved by muscles, some of which (extrinsic muscles) pass to them from outside and others (intrinsic muscles) either extend from one cartilage to the other or are so disposed as to produce constriction of the orifice. Of the several cartilages which make up the framework of the larynx the two largest, viz. the thyroid and cricoid, are of the hyaline variety; the arytenoids are mainly hyaline, but acquire elastic fibres at their apices and in their vocal processes, whilst the cartilage of the e'piglottis, the cartilages of Santorini, and the cartilages of Wrisherg (when present) are elastic cartilage. Those which are hyaline show a tendency to ossify: this process may begin as early as the twentieth year in the thyroid and cricoid, and a few years later in the arytenoids. The cavity of the larynx is divided into an upper and a lower compartment by the comparatively narrow aperture of the glottis, or rima glottidis, the margins of which, in their anterior two-thirds, are formed by the lower or true vocal cords ; the whole laryngeal cavity, viewed in transverse vertical section (fig. 837), thus presents the appearance of an hour-glass. The upper compartment, often called the vestibule, communicates with the pharynx by the superior a'perture of the larynx, and contains immediately above the rima glottidis the ventricles (s), with their pouches or saccules (s'), and the up])er or false vocal cords. The lower compartment passes inferiorly into the tube of the windpipe without any marked constriction or delimitation between them. The whole of the interior of the larynx is lined by mucous membrane. The superior vocal cords or ventricular bands, also called false vocal cords, because they are not immediately concerned in the production of the voice, are prominent rounded folds of mucous membrane enclosing very numerous glands. They form somewhat arched projections, immediately above the corresponding ventricle (fig. 838, h).