DEVELOPMENT OF ERYTHROCYTES IN BONE-MARROW 385 amorphous or crystalline masses of pigment similar to lisematoidin (see p. 371). Since the number of erythrocytes in the blood is on the whole constant, this regular destruction must be balanced by as regular a production.^ Although this fact is fully recognised it was for a long time by no means clear what is the source of the newly formed erythrocytes, and conjecture centred itself upon the blood-leucocytes, which it was supposed might become transformed into erythrocytes; nor were observations lacking which seemed to point to the existence of forms intermediate between these and the red corpuscles. When the blood-platelets were discovered it was thought by some histologists that they might be regarded as precursors of erythrocytes. These conjectures have, however, for the most part been abandoned, since it was established, first by Neumann,'^ whose observation was confirmed by Bizzozero,^ that the marrow of the bones always contains nucleated coloured corpuscles (the ery- throblasts above mentioned) which are similar to the nucleated red corpuscles of the embryo, and which either have been derived from those corpuscles by direct descent, or formed from colourless haemoblasts in the manner in which the erythroblasts are said to be formed in the embryo from haemoblasts. These erythroblasts of the marrow multiply by mitotic cell-division, and from them are derived, with atrophy or extrusion of the nucleus,'* discoid erythrocytes which pass into the blood-stream and supply the place of those which have disappeared. The erythroblasts of the marrow, like those of the embryonic mesoderm (p. 375), occur both as megaloblasts and' as normoblasts, the latter representing a stage intermediate between the megaloblasts and the erythroblasts. Erythroblasts are produced from normoblasts by mitotic division and are converted with atrophy of their nuclei into discoid erythrocytes. In this manner (in mammals) the erythrocytes are produced outside the blood- vessels in the tissue of the bone-marrow—especially in the red variety of marrow such as occurs characteristically in the ribs—and pass through the walls of the marrow-capillaries, which are very thin and possibly incomplete. Some erythroblasts (nucleated red cells) are also found within the vessels of the marrow, and they may sometimes be detected in the blood leaving the marrow. The marroAv undergoes a considerable accession of blood-forming activity after extensive hsemorrhage. Under these circumstances many more erythroblasts are seen, and transitional forms between these and erythrocytes are abundant. Occasionally when regeneration is in active pro- gress portions of nuclear matter remain in some of the erythrocytes even in the circulating blood.^ It would appear from the observations of Bizzozero and Torre “ that in birds the capillary walls are complete, and that all the erythroblasts are intravascular, i.e.. are found within venous capillaries and not in the tissue of the marrow. These venous capillaries are relatively large, and the blood-stream in them must be slow. The fully developed red corpuscles lie in the axis of the vessel, the erythroblasts and haemoblasts towards the periphery. Denys,^ who also subjected the marrow in birds to a careful examination, states that the coloured erythroblasts are derived from colourless corpuscles, i.e. hsemoblasts, lying next to the capillary wall, and that while this transformation into red corpuscles is going on within the vessels, the marrow-cells outside the vessels are multiplying and forming other hsemoblasts which pass into the capillaries. This would be very much the same process as goes on in the embryo mammal, where haemoblasts are said^to be formed both within and outside the vessels. Morpholog'y of the red corpuscles.—It is obvious from the study of the structure of the mammalian red blood-discs that, unlike those of ovipara, they are not morphologically to be regarded as cells. For they lack an important morphological constituent of the cell, viz. the nucleus, ^ See on this subject W. Hunter, Brit. Med. Journ. 1887 ; Howell, Journ. Morph, iv. 1890. - Centralbl. f. med. Wissensch. 1868. ^ Ibid. ‘ Or, according to Rindlleisch, by a budding off of hteinoglobin-containing protoplasm (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xvii. 1880). R. S. Morris, Arch, of Internal Medicine, 1909. Morris states that in the cat these particles often occur normally in the erythrocytes. Moleschott’s Unters. xii. 1881. ’’’ La Cellule, t. iv. 1888. VOL. II. PART I. C C