78 VITAL PHENOMENA OF PROTOPLASM covers the protoplasmic extension of which each cilium in these instances is com- posed. Similarly it is conceivable that rhythmical changes of tension due to causes operating equally and alternately upon opposite sides of all the cilia of a ciliated cell might produce a movement of fluid from side to side within the protoplasm composing each cilium, and by such rhythmical transference of fluid the curving over and recovery of the cilium might be caused.' But the co-ordinated action of all the cilia of an ordinary ciliated cell seems to necessitate the supposition of a common cause, and if this is a variation in tension it must start at the free border of the cell from which the cilia all spring. The assumption that the cilia are direct exten- sions of the cell-protoplasm, with a naturally curved form, and that they are enclosed, like the cell-protoplasm, by an external film, would suffice to explain how it is that differences of tension at the free border of the cell may produce move- ments of such extensions. For any diminution of surface tension at the free border of the cell would tend to cause fluid to pass into such hollow extensions, and would thus cause them, if originally curved, to straighten ; while an increase of surface tension would be accompanied by an inflow into the cell-body and a curving over of the cilia. In this way rhythmical variations in surface tension at the free border of the cell would be responded to by rhythmical movements of the cilia which project from that border. This hypothesis of the production of ciliary movement may be illustrated by a curved tube, preferably flattened, made of thin indiarubber. The tube is closed at one end and is attached at the other to an indiarubber ball, by gentle pressure upon which fluid can be passed into or withdrawn from the flattened tubular exten- sion (fig. 121). With such a model the bending over and straightening of a cilium can be closely imitated, and the effect of these movements in causing currents in a body of water can be shown. If the tube has been moulded into a spiral form instead of a simple curve, the movements which are produced by variation of tension within the model are exactly similar to the corkscrew-like movements of many flagella.^ Such a model illustrates the fact that even slight changes of pressure produce strong movements of the tube in water, the resistance of the water counting under the circumstances for comparatively little. By no other hypothesis is it possible to explain the power which cilia possess, not only to bend rapidly against the resistance of water and of mucus, but to drive these fluids vigorously over the ciliated surface, and even to move weights which are thousands of times heavier than that of the cilia upon which the weight is borne. This hypothesis is supported by the following considerations : (1) Cilia, whether, as with spermatozoa, they contain an axial filament derived from the centrosome or not, are developed as extensions of the cytoplasm and are therefore from the first covered with an extension of the surface film by which the cytoplasm is invested—-in other words, they are extensions of the cell filled with fluid protoplasm and covered by a fine membrane. (2) All cilia and flagella which are sufficiently large for any structure to be made out exhibit a distinct external investment enclosing a hollow interior. ' This explanation has been suggested by Robertson (see below, p. 80). ^ Schafer, Anat. Anz. 1904. See also Proc. Roy. Soc. xlix. 1901, p, 198. 1 Pig. 121.—DIAGE.A.M of model to show HOW A CURVED TUBE WILL EITHER STRAIGHTEN OR BEND OVER IN OBEDIENCE TO FLUCTUATIONS OF PRESSURE IN ITS FLUID CONTENTS. (Schafer.)