SECRETING GLANDS 428 The actual sliape of the alveoli of a compound gland is not easily determined by the examination of sections. But Maziarski,* by the use of the reconstructive method, and Peiser,^ by the examination of teased-out glands, have succeeded in accurately portraying in various glands the shape and arrangement of the alveoli and the ducts which immediately lead from them. Their figures, some of which are here given (figs. 633 and 634), show a considerable variation in the shape and arrangement of the alveoli, even in glands which are otherwise nearly allied in structure. The alveoli of serous glands in general are distinctly racemose in type,^ the somewhat globular alveoli or acini which represent the individual berries of the raceme being connected with the efferent duct that A B Fig. 634.—Isolated portions of various glands. (Peiser.) Magnified 300 diameters. A, from one of the glands of the lip ; D, from one of the glands of v. Ebner (serous gland) of the tongue; C, from the mucous portion of the human submaxillary gland; D, from the serous portion of the human submaxillary gland. leads away from the group of alveoli (lobule) by comparatively narrow stalk- like ductules, which expand abruptly into the acini. These efferent ducts are continued into larger ducts, which meet with others of the same character, and the resulting tubes eventually pour their secretion into the main duct of the gland. These are true racemose or acinous glands. The mammary gland belongs to this type, although offering many points of difference in the details of its structure. Other glands, e.g. many of those which secrete mucus, have alveoli scarcely more dilated than the ductules which open out from them and convey their secretion into the efferent duct of the lobule. The ductules are relatively large, and form, with the alveoli that beset them, small groups or lobules, each ^ Anat. Hefte, xviii. 1902. Arch. f. mikr. Auat. Ixi. 1903. ^ li. Metzner, Zentr. f. Physiol, xxiii. 1909, p. 286.