THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES 108 3. Plasma-cells.—These are characterised by their small round excentric nuclei and the basij^hil granules of their protoj^lasm, which is often vacuolated. They may be flattened, elongated, branched or unbranched, but are usually spheroidal. They are not common in ordinary connective tissue, but are more numerous in young animals, in blood-forming organs, and in adenoid tissue.^ 1. Basifliil cells (Mastzellen of Ehrlich).—These are large rounded cells, the protoplasm of which is packed with basiphil granules. They are believed to be developed from lymphocytes, which have undergone enlargement, and accumu- lation of basiphil material. They are numerous in bone-marrow and in parts of the connective tissue where fat is becoming deposited. Wander-cells are occasionally met with in areolar tissue. These are oxyphil or polymorph leucocytes derived from the blood. Pig^mented areolar tissue.—Pigment-cells resembling large branched connective-tissue cells, and containing numerous pigment-granules, occur in man normally only in the middle coat of the eye (fig. 177) and in the pia mater of the Fig. 176.—Cells of rabbit’s cornea stained with gold chloride. (Schiifer.) Magnified 300 diameters. The nuclei are unstained. The cells are connected by their branches. upper part of the spinal cord, but in the lower vertebrates they are found in the skin, in serous membranes, and elsewhere. The pigment (melanin) which is contained within the cells consists of black or brown granules or molecules of a round or oblong shape, and almost too small for exact measurement. These granules are densely packed together in some cells ; in others they are more scattered. When they escape from the ruptured cells, they exhibit very strikingly the ‘ Brownian' molecular movement; and in consequence of this movement the apparent figure of the particles is subject to change. When viewed singly with a very high magnifying power they look trans- parent and almost colourless, and it is only when they are heaped together that their dark colour distinctly appears. The nucleus of the cell is not coloured, but is very often hidden from view by the pigment-particles. ' L. H. Hiue, Brit. Jouni. Dermat. 1907. - From tlie German prefix 93(afr, signifying ‘ fattened,’ ‘ well-nourished.’ But Ballowitz found Ehrlich’s mast-cells just as numerous in bats after the winter sleep as before (Anat. Anz. 1891).