106 THE CONNECTIVE TLS8UE8 Tlie elastic fibres are angular in section (fig. 173) (sometimes with rounded angles, fig. 187), as may be seen in the elastic ligaments, where they are usually much larger than in areolar tissue. They snap straight across when stretched to breaking strain. In young animals, and sometimes also in the adult, they exhibit transverse markings here and there (fig. 186), which are best seen in the largest fibres and have been interpreted to indicate the formation of the fibres from rows of elastin particles which become subsequently fused together (Ranvier).' In consequence of the resistance these fibres offer to the action of acids and the readiness with which the white fibres swell and are made invisible by acids, it is sufficient to treat a fresh specimen of areolar tissue with dilute acetic acid to bring at once conspicuously into view the elastic fibres, which may previously have been concealed by the much more numerous white fibres of the tissue. It sometimes happens that the white bundles when swollen by the acid remain constricted here and there, as if encircled by a band which is unaffected by the acid (fig. 174). Sometimes the band has a spiral disposition, sometimes there are a number of separate rings. This appearance is readily seen in the areolar tissue around the arteries at the base of the brain. It has been held to be due to elastic fibres coiling round the white bundle ; others have thought that the appearance may be caused by the presence of a delicate sheath to each bundle which resists acid, and which, when the bundle swells, is ruptured, except at certain places; and yet others have ascribed the bands to cell-processes extending round the bundles. Perhaps more than one of these explanations is correct for different cases. The cells of areolar tissue.^—Lyiiig in the ground-substance, frequently in close contact with a bundle of the white fibres, or, if the tissue is dense, in the interstices between two or more bundles (but never in the interior of a bundle), are the cells of the tissue. Of these at least three different kinds occur in most areolar tissues— “ Bundle of white FIBRES OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE VIZ. : SWOLLEN BY ACETIC ACID. 1. Lamellar cells (fig. 175).—These are the most (Toldt.) characteristic and widely diffused. They are usually Fiw the subanxclmoid Ussueat the base of the brain. flattened, sometimes markedly so, and where a 1 This mode of formation is not admitted by all authorities, many contending that the elastic fibres are formed by a transformation of branching cell-processes. But the development of elastic fibres in cartilage lends support to the view taken by Ranvier. “ See on the cells of connective tissue, Waldeyer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xi. 1875 ; Ehrlich, ibid. xiii. 1877; Westphal, Diss. Berlin, 1880; Randnitz, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxii. 1883; O. Nordmann, Internat. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Hist. ii. 1885 ; Ranvier, Arch, de Physiol. 1889, and Journ. de raicro- graphie, 1889, 1890; Loewenthal, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1903; Maximow, ibid. Ixvii. 1906. The nomenclature is very confused. J. Schaffer (Die Plasmazellen, 1910) gives a good history of the subject. Fig. 173.—Cross-section of elastic fibres FROM THE LIGAMENTUM NUCH.E OF THE OX. (Sketched by T. P. Gostling.)