INTEKNALLY SECEETING GLANDS 672 some of the Swiss valleys and the region of the great lakes of North America. The affection in these districts is not confined to man, but extends to many of the lower animals. In the foetus, and during early infancy, the thyroid is relatively larger than in after-life ; its proportion to the weight of the body in the new-born infant being that of 1 to 240 or 400, whilst at the end of three weeks it becomes only 1 to 1160, and in the adult is 1 to 1800 (Krause). In advanced life the thyroid body is liable to become indurated ; it also frequently contains earthy deposit and its vesicles may attain a large size. c, fi V ■ ■ m.- ::v ^ :W H'o-r) j"',, b .. ■rti,*!; ft «• . 6 ' - - Q ■ ‘■'I' 9^''' Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the thyroid body are the superior and inferior thyroids of each side, to which is sometimes added a fifth vessel, the thyroidea ima. The arteries are remarkable for their large relative size, and for their frequent and large anastomoses ; they terminate in a capillary network upon the outside of the vesicles (figs. 965, 966), each of which has an arteriole and venule.' The capillaries are in close contact with the epithelium and may even project between the epithelium-cells. The veins, which are also large, ultimately form plexuses on the surface, from which a superior, middle, and inferior thyroid vein are formed on each side. The superior and middle thyroid veins open into the internal jugular ; the inferior veins issue from a plexus formed in front of the trachea, and open into the innomi- nate veins. The lymphatics of the thyroid body form numerous and large anasto- mosing trunks, both at the surface of the organ and throughout its substance ; they originate, according to the observations of Frev, in the connective tissue which unites the gland-vesicles, with the cavity of which they appear not to be in com- munication. According to Matsunaga ^ they originate between the epithelium- cells. By using intermittent pressure, Hurthle succeeded in causing injection- material to pass into the vesicles from the lymph-paths. The nerves are derived from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. They accompany the blood-vessels. According to Andersson there are no ganglion-cells in their course. Their terminal branches extend close to the base of the epithelium-cells, between which they, in all probability, penetrate.^ Fig. 967.—Tbansvebse section of the left LOBE OF THE THYBOID OF A TWO-MONTHS KITTEN. (Kolin.) Magnified 20 diameters. a, thyroid tissue; h, h, thymus tissue; p, i>', inner and outer parathyroids. PARATHYROIDS. Under the name of parathyroid glandules Sandstrom** described (in 1880) a pair of small glandular masses on each side, usually lying in close proximity to the lateral lobes of the thyroid body (fig. 967, p, p'), sometimes deeply imbedded in the substance of the thyroid, and constant in occurrence in man and other mammals. They vary in size from 3 mm. to 15 mm. in diameter, being on the average about 6 mm. long and 3 to 4 mm. broad. Their weight varies from ’01 gramme to -1 gramme.''’ ^ R. H. Major, Amer. Journ. Aiiat. ix. 1909. - Arch. f. Anat. 1909. ■" O. Andersson, Biol. Foreningens Fiirhandl. iv. 1891-2; H. J. Berkley, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Rep. v. 1894; Sacerdotti, Atti d. r. accad. d. sci. d. Torino, xxix. 1893. ‘ Liikaref. Fcirhandl. xv. 1880. Welsh, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxxii. 1898.