433 SECRETORY CANALICULI interlobular bile-ducts between the secreting cells of the liver-lobule, and it has been affirmed by Kupffer and others that these bile-canaliculi even communicate with minute channels, temporary or permanent, penetrating into the interior of the cells themselves. It has since been established that such penetration of secretory canaliculi between the secreting cells of the alveoli is a constant feature in many racemose and tubular glands (fig. 639), especially those in which the character of the secretion is of a watery or serous type. * The canaliculi in question can be displayed either by injection from the ducts or by tracing some colouring substance previously introduced into the blood, such as siilphindigotate of soda, in the course of its removal from the body by these glands (fig. 640), or, more easily, by employing the Golgi method of staining. This method serves not only to display nerve cells and fibres, but also gland-ducts to their finest ramifications ; by it secretory canaliculi have been traced between the cells of the parotid and of most serous glands ; Fig. 640.—Secbetion of coloubed matebial by the cbescent-cells op the dog’s SUBMAXILLABY. (R. Krause.) In the right-hand figure the colouring-matter is seen in the form of droplets within the cells, and in the left-hand figure to be collected from these and to pass along fine canaliculi towards the lumen of the alveolus. between the cells of the crescents of the salivary glands (fig. 638) ; around and even into the interior of the acid-forming cells of the gastric glands; and between the alveolar cells of the pancreas.^ Muscular tissue of g'lands.—Muscular tissue of the plain variety is found, disposed circularly, in the wall of the larger ducts of most if not all glands. In ^ See on gland-cells and secretion-canaliculi, Langley, Journ. Physiol, ii. 1879-80, Phil. Trans. 1881, and Article ‘ Salivary Glands ’ in Schafer’s Text-book of Physiology, 1898; Cajal, Nuevas applic. d. met. d. color, d. Golgi, 1889 ; G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. iii. 1892; Laserstein, Pfliiger’s Arch. Iv. 1894; E. Muller, Verhandl. Biol. Ver. Stockholm, iv. 1892, Om inter- och intracelluliire Kortelganger, Akadem. Afhandl. Stockholm, 1894, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlv. 1895, and Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. Ixiv. 1898 ; R. Krause, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlv. 1895, xlix. 1897, and lix. 1902; P. Stohr, ibid, xlvii. 1896; Zimmermann, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898; J. Arnold, ibid. Ixv. 1905; Noll and Sokoloff, Arch. f. Physiol. 1905. According to Stohr the mucous cells of the salivary glands and even the rodded epithelium of their ducts have secretory canaliculi; but if this is so, they are far less developed than are those to the serous cells. Several of the above papers deal with the formation of granules in the secreting cells. ^ According to Rubaschin (Anat. Anz. xxix. 1906) the secretion capillaries are formed during the passage of the secretion, and are therefore not to be looked upon as permanent structures ; but this view is improbable, at least in many cases. VOL. II. PART I. F F