45 CELL-DIVISION makes its appearance. Later a nucleolus may become formed in each of the daughter-nuclei.^ In the meantime and while the daughter-nuclei are in process of formation the cell- protoplasm begins to show a separation opposite the equator of the nucleus (fig. 77 m), and this separation extends in from the surface to the centre until the cleavage is Fig. 77. — Epithelium-cells of salamander larva, showing different conditions ■■ OF MITOSIS. The cells were hardened in picric or chromic acid, and stained WITH h/EMatoxylin OR SAFFRANiN. (Flemming.) a, resting cell, showing the nuclear network; 6, first stage of division, the chromatin trans- formed into a skein of closely contorted filaments; c, second stage, filaments larger and less closely arranged : in this and all the other figures except a the nuclear matrix is clear; d (rather more magnified than the rest), filaments larger and showing an arrangement in loops: this is more evident in e, where they are arranged round the equator of the nucleus; /■, filaments beginning to show signs of longitudinal division ; g, longitudinal splitting more pronounced: star-like arrangement of chromosomes (aster); li, completion of longitudinal splitting of the filaments; i, commencing separation of filaments into two groups (meta- kinesis) ; y, further separation into two sets ; k, separation more advanced; Z, stellate phase of daughter-nuclei (diaster); m, commencing convolution of the filaments; n, filaments more contorted; o, p, gradual passage of daughter-nuclei into condition of rest (network, q). The division of the protoplasm is seen to begin in the stage represented by m and to lie rapidly completed (at n). complete. In most vegetable and in a few animal cells the separation of the proto- plasm occurs simultaneously along a plane which exactly bisects the original cell and nucleus, and the line of separation is marked before separation actually occurs by a series of beaded enlargements of the fibres of the division-spindle, all which enlargements lie in the plane of subsequent division and seem to initiate that ^ Gregoire et Wygaerts, La Cellule, xxi. 1903 ; Kowaleski, ibid.