HISTOGENESIS 7 substance (iig. 8); these fibres, which form part of the elementary constituents of the tissue, may either grow out from the cells and afterwards lose connexion with them, or they may be simply deposited in the ground-substance, without being directly connected with the cells of the tissue ; fibres of this kind—i.e. coursing through the intercellular substance without direct connexion with the cells—are, at least in the adult, characteristic of the connective tissues. In epithelium, on the other hand, such fibres as occur in the intercellular substance bridge across it, passing from cell to cell and serving the purpose of connecting the cells of the tissue together (fig. 9). In some situations where this arrange- ment occurs, as in the deeper layers of a stratified epithelium, the intercellular substance may be merely a sort of lymph,* such as bathes all the living tissues, and not of the nature of a firmer cementing material such as may be assumed to be present when these bridging fibres are absent. But, as Flemming has pointed out, it differs chemically from lymph such as occurs in lymph-vessels in the fact that it becomes darkly stained by Becklinghausen’s silver-nitrate method. In epithelium. Fig. 9. Cells of a stratified epithelium (epidermis) with fibrils bridging across THE intercellular SPACES. (Kanvier.) 71, a cell-nucleus ; /, bridging fibrils. as in connective tissue, there may be, and probably are, varying degrees of firmness of the intercellular substance, but it never, as does that of bone and dentine, undergoes calcification, with the possible exception of the cement-substance between the prisms of the enamel of the teeth, which has sometimes been looked upon as furnishing an example of calcified intercellular material. —The changes which take place in and by means of embry- onic cells in the production of tissues are collectively termed histogenesis. Great variations are found to occur in the tissues regarding the amount of differentiation which their cells undergo. Some cells, such as the lymph-corpuscles (lymphocytes), retain throughout their whole life-history most of the characters of undifferentiated cells; others, such as the cells of nervous and muscular tissues, become so greatly modified that the original structure of the constituent cells is completely obscured; while others again, such as the cells of the connective tissue and many epithelial cells, occupy an intermediate position in the scale of differentiation. * Flemming, Anat. Hefte, vi. 189G; Waldeyer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1901.