OVAKY 644 recalling the interstitial cells of the testis. Similar cells may occur scattered in groups about the stroma ; they are numerous in some animals. Covering the whole free sur- face of the ovary, which is smooth in the young subject but maybe uneven or pitted in later life, is a layer of short clear columnar or pyriform epithelium-cells {ger- minal epithelium) (fig. 936). There are small cells; but rather larger spheroidal cells {primitive ova) occasionally occur be- tween them. Here and there, especially in children and young animals, this epithelium is thickened, and dips for a short distance into the fibrous sub- stance or stroma of the ovary (fig. 937). In foetal animals these ingrowths of germinal epi- thelium take the form of long solid strands of germinal cells, which were first described by Pfliiger under the name egg- tubes : near the surface of the ovary the strands may be hollow and duct-like, recalling somewhat the appearance of gland-tubules. But as development pro- Fig, 934.—Section of the ovary of the cat. (Schron.) Magnified 6 diameters. 1, outer covering and free border of the ovary; 1', attached border; 2, the central ovarian stroma, presenting a fibrous and vascular structure; 3, peripheral stroma; 4, blood-vessels; 5, Graafian follicles in their earliest stages lying near the surface; 6, 7, 8, more advanced follicles which are imbedded more deeply in the stroma; 9, an almost mature follicle containing the ovum in its deepest part; 9', a follicle from which the ovum has accidentally escaped ; 10, corpus luteum. Pig. 935.—A portion of the section of cat’s ovary represented in the preceding FIGURE ; MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (Schl'on.) 1, epithelium and outer covering of the ovary; 2, fibrous stroma; 3, 3', less fibrous, more superficial stroma ; 4, blood-vessels ; 5, small Graafian follicles near the surface; G, one or two more deeply placed; 7, one farther developed, enclosed by a prolongation of the fibrous stroma; 8, a follicle farther advanced; 8', another of an elliptical shape; 9, part of a ripe follicle; a, tunica granulosa; fc, discus proligerus; c, ovum ; d, germinal vesicle; c, germinal spot. ceeds tlie egg-tubes become divided up by ingrowths of stroma, into islets of germinal cells ; it is from these that the Graafian follicles, next to be described.