■ 48 CELL-DIVISION The karyokinetic process has been watched in actual progress in all its stages by more than one observer. The time occupied has varied in different animals from half an hour to three hours. Observed thus in the living cell (fig. 82) it is'not possible to follow out all the details of the process, which have only been eluci- dated in tissues the cells of which have been fixed by appropriate hardening re- agents and afterwards stained. Fig. 80.—Cell-plate in dividing spobe-cell OF LILY. (Gurwitsch, after Zimmermann.) a Pig. 81.—Dividing cell constbicted to fobm TWO daughteb-cells, each avith centbo- SOME. (Geberg.) The jiarticle at the junction of the daughter- cells represents a rudimentary cell-plate. Fig. 82.—Stages in the division of the nucleus of a living epithelium-cell in the EPIDEBMIS OF A SALAMANDEB LABVA. (Flemming.) a, cell showing the nucleus transformed into a mass of contorted filaments; h, the nuclear filaments have become fewer, and begin to assume a converging arrangement; c, stellate form ; cl, e, equatorial stage, which was found to come and go more than once: eventually the filaments accumulated in a direction parallel to one anotlier near the centre of the cell, and then gradually separated into two sets as shown in These as they retired towards the poles gradually assumed the stellate form ^ (diaster). The time occupied whilst the stages above represented were passed through was about three hours. Leduc ' obtains appearances closely resembling those of kar3'Okinetic nuclei bj’ placing in a salt solution of a certain strength, Avhich we may term isotonic, two drops, near one another, of a stronger or hyper-isotonic solution, and in the middle of each of these a smaller drop of a Aveak or hypo-isotonic solution containing China ink in suspension. As seen in fig. 84 the formation of a division-spindle is singularly imitated, as well as the passage along it of chromosome- like threads Avhich tend to become arranged at the equator of the spindle and maA’ subsequenth’’ separate into tAvo groups and pass toAvards the poles. It has been shown by R. 8. Lillie that many of the positions Avhich are successive!}' assumed by chromosomes in the course of karyokinesis may be explained if Ave assume that the astral ^ C. r. de Tassoc. fram,*,. p. ravancement de science, 1904. - Amer. Journ. of Physiol, vol. xv. 1905.