578 TEACHEA at one end. Sometimes it coalesces to a greater or less extent with the cricoid or with the next hoop below. The lowest cartilage, placed at the bifurcation of the trachea, is peculiar in shape, its lower border being prolonged downwards in the middle line, and at the same time bent backwards so as to form a curved pro- jection between the two bronchi. The cartilage next above this is slightly deepened in the middle line. Sometimes the extremities of two adjacent cartilages are united, and not infrequently a cartilage is divided at one end into two short branches, the opposite end of that next it being likewise bifurcated so as to maintain the parallelism of the entire series. The use of. these cartilaginous hoops is to keep the windpipe open, a condition essential for the free passage of air into the lungs. Fig. 841.—Longitudinal section of the human tkachea, including pobtions of two CABTiLAGiNOUS BINGS. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Moderately magnified. <x, ciliated epithelium ; b, basement-membrane; c, superficial part of the mucous membrane, containing the sections of numerous capillary blood-vessels and much lymphoid tissue; cl, deeper part of the mucous membrane, consisting mainly of elastic fibres; e, submucous areolar tissue, containing the larger blood-vessels, small mucous glands (their ducts and alveoli are seen in section), fat, &c.; /, connective tissue investing and uniting the cartilages; g, a small mass of adipose tissue in this layer; h, cartilage. Within the sheet of connective tissue at the posterior flattened part of the trachea is a continuous pale reddish layer of iinstriped muscular -fibres {ni in Plate), which pass across, not only between the ends of the cartilages, but also opposite the intervals ; they doubtless serve to narrow the tube by approximating the ends of the cartilages. Those opposite the hoops are attached to the extremities of the latter, and encroach also for a short distance upon their inner surface. Outside the transverse fibres are a few fasciculi having a longitudinal direction. The submucous tissue consists of loose areolar tissue which serves to connect the mucous membrane with the fibrous layer and the cartilaginous rings. It contains mucous glands, and a quantity of adipose tissue is often found in it. The mucous membrane is smooth and of a pale pinkish white colour in health, although, when congested or inflamed, it becomes intensely purple or crimson. It contains a considerable amount of lymphoid tissue. Underneath the epithelium