THE URINARY ORGANS. The urinary organs comprise the Udneijs, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Of these the first are typical examples of compound tubular glands, the ureters repre- sent their ducts, whilst the urinary bladder, into which the ureters open, serves as a receptacle for the collection of the urine. The urethra in the male sex furnishes a common passage for the urine and the secretion of the generative glands. Its structure will be described after that of the generative organs. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys are formed of a mass of tubules—the uriniferous tubules— which in sections through the organ are seen to be so disposed as to mark off two parts—a cortical part, nearer the surface, and a medullary part (fig. 857). The whole organ is covered by a fibrous capsule which dips in at the hilum and penetrates along with the blood-vessels and the duct (ureter) into a large cavity (sinus) around which the medulla is arranged. In many animals the medulla forms a single pyramidal mass (fig. 858), fan-shaped in section, the apex of the pyramid projecting as a broad papilla into the enlarged commencement of the ureter (pelvis). In other animals, including man, the medulla is formed of a number of separate pyramidal portions, the pyramids of Malpighi—about twelve in number in man— the bases of which abut against and are imbedded in the cortical part, which in man is continuous throughout and not separated up into parts like the medulla. The cortex is continued between and distal to the bases of the pyramids, appearing in sections of the organ as if formed by columnar masses, which are known as the columns of Bertini. These are not real columns, but portions of cortex which enclose the bundles of tubules known as the medullary rays (see next page). Each of the pyramids ends by a nipple-shaped papilla within a corresponding division (calix) of the pelvis. In some parts of the kidney two or more pyramids are united towards their apices to form a single papilla; such coalescence is especially marked near the ends of th •• kidney. In the foetus and new-born infant each pyramid or group of pyramids of the medulla has a separate portion of the cortex continuous with it, the kidney being divided up into a dozen or so distinct parts (reniculi) each with its branch of the ureter and artery. The coalescence of these is not completed until some time after birth. In some animals (e.g. bear) the reniculi remain distinct throughout life, being separated from one another by connective tissue. If the papilla is examined with a lens it is seen to be beset at its apex, which is dimpled (foveola), by minute apertures; these are the openings of the largest uriniferous tubules (ducts of Bellini). Fig. 857. — Plan of a LONGiTumN.\L SECTION THBOUGH THE PELVIS AND SUBSTANCE OF THE BIGHT KIDNEY. One-half the natural size. a, cortical substance; h, b, base of two of the pyramids of Malpighi; c, c, divisions of the pelvis named calices, or infundibula, laid open ; c', one of these unopened; d, d, points of papillae pro- jecting into calices; e, e, longitudinal section of two paj)illae near the calices ; p, pelvis or enlarged portion of the ureter within the kidney ; u, ureter ; ■s, sinus; h, hilum.