COKPUSCLKS OF PACINI. 269 layers of the perineurium, and the interstices between its fibres are occupied by a considerable quantity of lymph, and contain occasionally lymph-corpuscles. In the fresh state the delicate fibres of the lamellae are difficult of observation, so that the adjacent layers of endothelial cells belonging to the successive lamellae stand out sharply when the corpuscle is viewed in optical section, and these were long taken to represent the actual tunics of the organ. The layers are not everywhere in close juxtaposition, but are here and there separated from one another by interlamellar spaces which are occupied by lymph, and represent the lymphatic clefts between the layers of the perineimum of a nerve (p. 239). The nerve-fibre, the disposition of which may now be noticed, is conducted along the centre of the stalk, enters the corpuscle, and passes straight into the core, at the farther end of which it terminates. As shown by Pacini, the layers of the perineurium successively become continuous with, or rather expand into the tunics of the corpuscle. Since, however, in most Pacinian corpuscles there are many more tunics in the corpuscle than layers of the perineural sheath which invests the entering nerve, it is only a few of the tunics which are thus continuous ; and it will be generally found that it is the outer ones which are so. A certain number of the inner tunics are superadded therefore, and when traced towards the nerve-fibres they may be seen to end with rounded margins bounding a canal in which the nerve-fibre runs. The latter is accompanied by a little endoneural connective tissue which generally contains a number of granular cells (fig. 425). The nerve-fibre is single as it runs along the peduncle, unless when the latter supports two corpuscles; it retains the medullary sheath until it reaches the core, into which the axis-cylinder alone passes, freed from its neurolemma and medullary sheath. In its course through the core it is somewhat flattened, and presents the appearance either of a pale, finely striated, and very faintly outlined band or stripe, or of a darker and more sharply defined narrow line ; differing thus in appearance according as its flat side or its edge is turned towards the eye. The contrast in the appearance of the fibre before and after entering the core is well exhibited after treatment with osmic acid, which stains the medullary sheath deeply, whereas the Fig. 424.—Pacinian corpuscle from the MESENTERY OF THE CAT ; STAINED WITH NITRATE OF SILVER. Magnified. The epithelioid cells of the outermost tunic are shown, and their continuity, at the peduncle, with those of the corresponding layer of the perineurium. (From a drawing by G. C. Henderson.) Fig. 423.—Diagrammatic representation of two TUNICS OF a Pacinian corpuscle in transverse section. (Schiifer.) a, G, epithelioid layers; 6, Z), connective-tissue layer, more condensed near the surface; c, open network of fine elastic fibres in the substance of the lamella.