MINUTE STRUCTUKE 183 condition of contraction (fig. 279, B). This appears to be due to the fact that in such cases the membranes of Krause become stretched in place of maintaining a constriction of the fibril. Nevertheless the mixing of the hyaline substance with the sarcous substance takes place as before, and the sarcomere assumes a nearly uniform appearance, so that the cross-striations are only faintly manifested ‘ (fig. 282, B). When the sarcostyles are moniliform, in fresh and unstained speci- mens the effect of this form upon the light transmitted through the muscle may be such that the swollen part looks comparatively clear, while the constricted part has a much darker appearance (fig. 282, A); and since this constricted part corresponds with the middle of the bright stria of the extended muscle, the striae appear to have become reversed during contraction ; a supposed phenomenon which was originally described by Merkel, in which description he has been followed by many authors. In a gold-stained fibre, however, it is easy to see that no such reversal takes place in contraction (fig. 281), and the same fact is obvious when contracted muscle is viewed by polarised light (see p. 185). Comparison of wing'-iibres of insects with ordinary muscle- fibres,—The differences of structure between the ordinary muscles of insects and the muscular fibres which move the wings are differences of degree only. Thus the sarcoplasm is in relatively small amount in the ordinary muscles, as it is in those of vertebrates, and shows regular enlargements corresponding with the lessened diameter of the sarcomeres opposite the clear substance. These enlargements appear as dots or transverse networks according to the point from which they are viewed. They are absent in the wing-fibres. Moreover, the fibrils, probably on account of the smaller amount of sarcoplasm, are difficult or impossible of isola- tion in the living condition in the leg-fibres, easy in the wing-fibres. But, like the fibrils (sarcostyles) of the wing-muscles, they are divided into segments or sarco- meres, at regular intervals corresponding with the middle of the bright striae, by transverse membranes (membranes of Krause), which can be brought distinctly into view on the addition of dilute acid to the fresh or alcohol-fixed muscle (fig. 272, K). Each sarcomere contains a sarcous element, usually rod-like in form with hyaline substance between the sarcous element and the membrane of Krause at either end of the segment; this membrane may be merely represented by a dot (figs. 269,270); the middle of the sarcous element when the muscular fibre is extended shows a clear line or interruption, as in the wing-element—the line of Hensen. As in the wing-sarcostyles, the proportionate amounts of the sarcomere occupied respectively by the sarcous element and the clear intervals vary greatly, according to the condition of extension or contraction of the muscle. In contracted fibres the sarcous elements enlarge and approach the transverse membranes, and the clear intervals diminish proportionately, their fluid being imbibed by the sarcous element; while in extended fibres the sarcous elements become removed from the transverse membranes and narrowed, and the clear intervals become fari passu longer. The ends of the sarcous element in some fibres appear detached, forming a row of dot-like portions of sarcous substance in the line of the fibril, and collectively producing the so-called ‘ accessory discs," lying in the clear substance on either side of Dobie’s line. But some structures which have been described as acces- sory discs in these muscles are merely the sarcoplasmic enlargements, which, as already stated, frequently appear as dots in longitudinal view ; this is the case with the fibre represented in fig. 278. An important influence upon the optical appearances of the ordinary muscular fibres is exerted by these sarcoplasmic accumulations (transverse networks), which lie, as we have seen, in the region of the bright stripe (clear interval of the ^ Ranvier, Lemons sur le systeme musculaire, 1880, and Traite technique, 1889 ; Holmgren, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. Ixxi. 1907.