CARTILAGE 130 with the surface. As to those situated more inwardly, we can sometimes observe, in a transverse slice, that they form oblong groups disposed in lines radiating to the circumference ; but this arrangement is not constant, and they often appear quite irregular. The cells, with the exception of those lying upon the surface, frequently contain drops of oil, the nucleus being often altogether concealed by the fat. The matrix is clear, except where the fibres have been developed in it, in which parts it is opaque and yellowish. Such fibrous patches are very frequent in rib cartilages; the fibres are fine, straight, and parallel, appearing transparent when few together. Besides these fibrous patches in the interior of the rib cartilages, the subperichondral layer is also pervaded by bundles of fibres which are directly prolonged from the fibre-bundles of the perichondrium and gradually lose them- selves in the cartilage matrix. There is in fact no sharp line of demarcation between the perichondrium and the subjacent cartilage, the one tissue passing by imperceptible gradation into the other. There is indeed reason to believe that the superficial layers of the cartilage are formed by a transformation of the fibrous Fig. 220.—From a section of costal cartilage from the calf. Cliromic acid preparation. (Schafer.) The matrix is indistinctly fibrous. Two or three empty cell-spaces are seen in the section, the cells having dropped out. The cell-protoplasm has a reticular appearance. tissue of the perichondrium during the growth of cartilage. It is not uncommon to find the rib cartilages extensively ossified. The description given of the microscopic characters of the costal cartilages will apply with little variation to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, to the cartilages of the larynx and windpipe, except the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis, and to the cartilages of the nose. With the exception of the last, these resemble the rib-cartilages also in their tendency to ossify. The characters of the temporary cartilages, which are hyaline, will be noticed in the account of the formation of bone. Elastic or yellow cartilag-e.—The epiglottis and cornicula of the larynx, the cartilages of the ear and of the Eustachian tube, are formed of ‘ elastic ' or ‘ yellow ^ cartilage. This is opaque and yellowish, more fiexible and tough than ordinary cartilage, and having little or no tendency to ossify. It is made up of cells and a matrix, but the latter is everywhere pervaded with fibres (fig. 221), except in a small area or narrow zone left round each of the cells. The fibres