454 THE SKIN definite patterns, characteristic of each individual, but capable of being classified under a relatively small number of heads. Moreover, these patterns are per- manent and do not alter as growth advances, the impression obtained from the hand of a young child being identical even in the most minute details (although of course somewhat less displayed) with that obtained from the same individual when grown up (F. Galton).^ Ridgres and papillae.—The surface of the cutis vera shows ridge-like pro- jections of its substance into the under surface of the epidermis, which in some parts run parallel with one another (although here and there joined by a cross ridge), while in others they have a somewhat reticulated arrangement (owing to a multiplicity of such cross ridges). The ridges have an uneven surface, this unevenness taking the form, in many parts, of prominent finger-shaped Fig. 662.—Vertical section of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, from the end of THE THUMB, ACROSS THE RIDGES AND FURROWS. (Kolliker.) Magnified 20 diameters. a, horny, and 6, Malpighian layer of the epidermis; c, corium; d, panniculiis adijjosus; e, papillae on the ridges;/, fat-clusters; g, sweat-glands; h, sweat-ducts; i, their openings on the surface. eminences known as papillcB, which fit into corresponding pits in the deeper part of the epidermis. The papillae are probably of use in bringing the superfi^cial blood-vessels 'of the cutis into closer connexion with the epidermis, and thus minister to its nutrition, but they must also contribute to the functions of the skin as a tactile organ, seeing that some of them contain special sensory nerve- endings and that they are well developed where the sense of touch is well-marked. Both ridges and papillae are prominent where the epidermic covering is thickest : thus we find the ridges well developed under the nail, and the papillae longest and most closely arranged on the ^palmar surface of the hand and fingers, and on the corresponding parts of the foot. In these parts the ridges which bear the papillae ^ See on this subject Lewinsky, Virch. Arch. xcii. 1883 ; F. Galton, Phil. Trans. 182 B, 1891; and Finger Prints, London, 1892. On the development of the papillary ridges of the skin, see J. E. Evatt, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xli. 1906. The markings aiipoar in the cutis of the human embryo at eleven weeks, and show on the surface of the epidermis at eighteen weeks. W. Kidd {ibid.) finds that in many parts the pajjilliu’y ridges tend to be somewhat imbricated.