458 THE SKIN Merkel has described the nerves of the epidermis as ending in pyriform ‘ tactile ’ cells placed between the ordinary epithelial cells, and Langerhans thought that the nerves could be traced to stellate cells in the interstitial spaces ; but improved methods of staining render it probable that the termination of the nerve-fibrils in the cuticle is as above described, between the cells, not actualty Avithin them. In many places, however, the cells against Avhich the enlarged endings of the nerve-fibres (menisci) are applied, differ in appearance from the other epithelium-cells, and although the nerve-fibres do not enter them they may be regarded as tactile cells. Nerves are supplied in very different proportions to different regions of the true skin. They pass upwards towards the papillary surface, where they form plexuses, of which the meshes become closer as they approach the surface, and the con- stituent branches finer. From the most superficial or subepithelial plexus, which lies immediately under the epithelium, delicate non-medullated fibrils pass off and ramify immediately beneath the epidermis, where they form the so-called kederiform nerve-endings (fig. 667). Many of the nerves of the cutis vera terminate in end- n, n', nerve-fibres; m, enlargements on terminal fibrils; papillte; s, SAveat-duct. bulbs, tactile corpuscles, and Pacinian bodies, the last-named being seated in the subcutaneous 'tissue. Here also occur corpuscles of Rufiini and Golgi-Mazzoni endings. The tactile corpuscles of the skin are found most numerously in certain papillae of the palm and sole, more sparingly in those of the back of the hand and foot, the palmar surface of the fore-arm, and the nipple. Such papillae commonly contain no blood-vessels, and are named ‘tactile,^ as distinguished from ‘vascular ^ papillae. The structure of these different terminal corpuscles has been already described (pp. 260 to 271). Many of the nerve-fibres, chiefly the non-medullated, are supplied to the plain muscular tissue of the minute hair-muscles and of the blood-vessels. NAILS. The nails are thickenings of the deeper part of the horny layer of the epidermis, overlying a well-marked Malpighian layer, but not covered in the fully formed condition by epitrichium or by the superficial horny scales which characterise the rest of the epidermis. The cells of which they are formed are very closely conjoined t(j form the dense keratinised structure which constitutes the nail proper.