88 EPITHELIUM protoplasm were made up of fine rods. This is the case with the cells which line the smaller ducts of the salivary glands and some of the tubules of the kidney (fig. 141, d, and fig. 142). Under a high power of the microscope the rods resolve themselves into rows of granules. In vertebrates, columnar epithelium is chiefly, but by no means exclusively, derived from the entoderm. Occasionally columnar epithelium may exhibit an imperfect stratification owing to the presence of two or three layers of rounded or elongated cells between the fixed ends of the columnar cells. Glandular epithelium.—This variety of epithelium is characteristic of the alveoli of secreting glands. In form the cells are columnar, cubical, polyhedral, or spheroidal, and are usually set round the tubular or saccular cavity of the gland, into which the secretion is poured (fig. 141, a). The protoplasm of the cells is generally occupied by the materials which the gland secretes or by substances which are converted into those materials in the act of secretion. These substances usually take the form of granules. They make their appearance first in the neighbourhood of the nucleus, but may ultimately fill the cytoplasm. When the cells secrete, the Fig. 142.—Section op a con- voluted TUBULE OP THE babbit’^ kidney, showing THE STRUCTUKE OP THE EPITHELIUM. (Szymonowicz.) Magnified 1100 diameters. Fig. 143.—Submaxillary gland op rabbit. (E. Miiller.) The cells are in different functional states, as indicated b}' the condition and staining of the granules, a, cell filled with darkly staining granules; 6, clear cell, the granules being swollen and having a reticulum of protoplasm between them c, secretory canaliculi penetrating into the cells. granules are discharged at the free surface and the cytoplasm tends to become clear, but as the granules are continually moved towards the free surface the base of the cell tends to clear before the rest. This epithelium will be more fully described when the secreting glands are dealt with. Goblet-cells.—A remarkable variety of glandular epithelium is furnished by the so-called goblet or chalice cells, which occur most commonly amongst the cells of columnar epithelium, as in the intestine, but are also found between the cells of ciliated epithelium, as in the air-passages. They may be looked upon as repre- senting unicellular mucus-secreting glands, and are found in every condition of formation and discharge of the secretion. In some situations, as in the large intes- tine, they are nearly, if not quite, as numerous as the ordinary columnar cells (fig. 144); they are also sometimes abundant in the epithelium of the villi of the small intestine (fig. 145), and in the stomach the lining epithelium is almost entirely