457 NERVES Nerves.—Fine varicose nerve-fibrils pass up into tlie epidermis, penetrating between the cells of the Malpighian layer (fig. 665), where they undergo a certain Fig. 665.—Section of epidebmis fbom the human hand. (Ranvier.) Highly magnified. c, horny layer, consisting of s, superficial horny scales, and sw, swollen-out horny cells; s.g, stratum granulosum ; o\m., rete mucosum or Malpighian layer, consisting of p, prickle- cells, several rows deej), and d, elongated cells forming a single stratum near the corium; n, part of a plexus of nerve-fibres in the superficial layer of the cutis vera: from this plexus, fine -liM varicose nerve-fibrils may be traced passing uj) between the cells of the Malpighian layer. r.vi. / amount of ramification. The branches do not unite with one another to form a net- work, but end in knob-like swellings or varicosities. With the growth and displace- ment of the cells between which they are placed, these varicosities become, according to E-anvier, con- ^ tinually detached from the end of the fibrils, the latter meanwhile growing constantly to supply the place of the detached portions. In the skin covering the snout of cer- tain animals {e.g. mole) the nerves end in pecuhar terminal organs (Eimer), formed of thickenings of the epidermis ; the nerve- fibres pass as an elongated bunch of closely set, somewhat zigzag, varicose, unbranched fibrils between the epidermis- cells. Besides these fibrils there are others at the periphery of the organ which are epithelium-cell; a, altered epithelium-cell , 11 1, to which the meniscus is applied, less closely arranged, and terminate in branched extremities as in other parts of the epidermis. In the snout of the pig the branched axis- cylinders pass partly into concavo-convex enlargements between the deeper epithelium-cells (tactile menisci of Ranvier) (fig. 666). Similar arrangements obtain in the ejiidermis of the dog’s nose.* E. Botezat, Anat. Aiiz. xxxiii. 1908. Tlie literature of the distribution of nerves in the epidermis is given in this paper. Fig. 666.—Ending of nebves in tactile discs in THE pig’s snout. (Raiivier.) n, nerve-fibre ; vi, terminal menisci or tactile discs ;