and leucocytes under the general head of cyiucjenic glands (Ainer. Journ. Anat. iv. 11)05). SECRETING GLANDS. A secreting gland is an organ the cells of which produce substances destined to serve some purpose useful to the organism or to remove substances which would be harmful (excretion). The cells obtain from the lymph- or blood- plasma the materials which furnish the products of their secretion, and either pour out such products by means of a duct upon an internal or external surface, or again discharge the elaborated products into the lymph- or blood- vessels. Those which discharge these secretions by means of ducts are distin- guished as externally secreting glands, or frequently as ‘ secreting glands ’ simply ; those which pass their secretion into the lymph- or blood-vessels are known as internally secreting glands, or, from being unprovided with a duct, as ‘ ductless glands.' But this last name has been used to include organs that are not, strictly speaking, secreting glands at all, such as the spleen and lymph-glands, which are now known to have totally different functions, connected with the formation or destruction of the morphological constituents of the blood. It will therefore be better to discard the use of the term ‘ ductless glands ' and to speak of the organs which were formerly grouped under that head either as ‘ glands of internal secretion ' or as ‘ lymph-glands ' and ‘ haemal glands,' according to their respective functions. Of these the lymph- and haemal glands have already been described. The glands of internal secretion differ so much from one another in the details of their structure that no general description is applicable to them. This is, how- ever, not the case with the externally secreting glands, the general features of which may first be noticed. The reproductive glands—ovary and testicle—represent a different class from any of the other externally secreting glands, for their secretion-products, although discharged by a duct on a free surface, do not consist merely of substances formed in and extruded from cells, but of complete cells, which become detached as such from the organ that forms them, and carried away from it along with fluid likewise produced by the gland. ‘ Some of the externally secreting glands have as a second function the production of materials which pass into the blood and serve to produce changes in other organs. Thus the pancreas produces a material wliich, after its passage into the blood, exercises an important influence on the metabolism of carbohydrates both in the liver and elsewhere, and the generative glands produce substances which enter the blood and affect the growth of a variety of organs, the secondary sexual characters being thereby mainly produced. Such glands must be reckoned as internally secreting as well as externally secreting organs. EXTERNALLY SECRETIXa GLANDS. These organs vary enormously in size and complexity of structure, but they all agree in being composed of epithelial cells, the secretion of which is conveyed away from the gland by a duct or ducts opening either upon the surface of the skin or on some internaf surface (such as that of the alimentary canal) lined by mucous membrane and communicating with the exterior. In some situations secreting cells are not accumulated into a compact organ, but merely cover or line a secreting surface (which may, however, be increased by being thrown into folds, as in the case of the serous and synovial membranes, and the choroid plexuses within the ventricles of the brain). This is also the case with the layer of cells which covers many mucous surfaces within the body, the mucus moistening such surfaces being in many cases produced not by special glands, but by some (or all) of the covering epithelial cells; whereas in other situations the membrane is covered by a non-secreting stratified epithelium, and the mucous or serous secretion, as ^ The reproductive glands are classed by Minot along with the organs which produce erythrocytes