ISLETS OE LANGERITANS 562 of the increase. Nerlich ' states that in the dog canaliculi can be injected in the islets from the ducts of the gland, Macallum found in a case of diabetes in man that there was apparent continuity between the islets and the secreting tubules. Vincent and Thompson describe a close histological relationship between the secreting alveoli and the islets.^ In confirmation of Dale they state that the islets increase in number and size during inanition, and they further find (in birds) that on re-nourishing the animal the number and size of the islets again diminishes to normal. Laguesse ' confirms the observations of Dale and of Vincent and Thompson, and holds that the islets increase and decrease at the expense of the alveoli. On the other hand, both H eiberg ^ and Kuster ® state that in number and in size the relation of the glandular tissue to the islets remains constant, and Diamare ^ and others have failed to find in the adult condition any connexion between islets and glandular tissue, De Witt ^ found the individual variations under normal conditions fully as great as under varied conditions of digestion, hunger, and diet. Although the view (based mainly on the histological evidence above given) which regards the islets as merely a part of the general secretory apparatus of the pancreas, altering in amount vicariously with the alveoli, is to some extent supported by the consideration of the mode in which they are originally developed, viz. as solid lateral outgrowths from the developing ducts of the embryonic pancreas,'-’ yet it must be confessed that the dissimilarity in the appearance and staining reactions of their cells, the sharp differentiation which they generally show against the secreting alveoli,"’ and especially the peculiar nature of their blood-supply, renders it difficult of acceptance. For the alterations which the alveoli must undergo to become converted into islet-tissue are of such a profound nature that it seems impossible for such changes to be brought about as the result of the mere injection of secretin, the action of which is rapid and lasts but for a short time.'* The fact that the islet-tissue does not undergo atrophy and retrogression along with the secreting alveoli when the ducts of the gland are obstructed,'- points to its independence of function. There are indeed strong grounds for considering that the islets are concerned with that function of the pancreas which deals with the regulation of the metabolism of carbo- hydrates," interference with which in consequence of removal or disease of the organ pro- duces diabetes. On this account it is generally held that the islet-tissue forms in its entirety an organ of internal secretion, yielding either an enzyme or a hormone which, after passing into the blood, is destined to play an essential part in the carbohydrate metabolism of the body. ’ Inaug. Diss. Breslau, 1906. ^ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. cxxxiii. 1907. 3 Intern. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxiv. 1907 and Trans. R. S. Canada, 1908. These authors describe a lumen as being sometimes present between the cells of the islets in reptiles and fishes. C. r. soc. biol. 1905, 1908, and 1909 ; Arch, d’anat. micr. xi. 1909; and Journ. de physiol, et path. xiii. 1911. See also Sauerbeck, Virch. Arch, clxxvii. 1904; J. S. Goodall and H. G. Earle, Brit. Med. Journ. Sept. 1909. •5 Anat. Anz. xxix. 1900. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiv. 1904. ~ Diamare, Intern. Monatschr. f. Anat, u. Physiol, xvi. 1899 and xxii. 1905 (observations on fishes). Cf. also Helly, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixvii. 1905 ; Heiberg, Anat. Anz. xxix. 1906 and xxxiii. 1910, and Kyrle, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxii. 1908. See also the article by Heiberg in Ergebn. d. Anat. xix. 1909, where the subject is discussed at length Op. cit. ^ Weichselbaum and Kyrle (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiv. 1909) found them appearing in this way in the human embryo of 8 cm.; they affirm that no new islets are formed in the adult. R. M. Pearce (Amer. Journ. Anat. ii. 1903) found them growing out from the developing ducts in an embryo of 73 days. See also Mironescu, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxvi. 1910, and Bensley (footnote 11). In fishes the islets are unconnected with the glandular tissue. One islet-mass is usually much larger than the rest (Rennie, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc. xlviii. 1904). This view is strongly supported by the observations of Bensley (Amer. Journ. Anat. xii. 1911), who has com lusively shown that the variations described by Dnle and by Vincent and Thompson as the result of secretin and of inanition are well within normal individual variation. The islets are most numerous in new-born animals. Many disappear as growth advances, but others may grow from the ducts, witli which for the most part they remain connected by small irregular ductules W. Schultze. Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivi. 1900; Tschassownikow, Ixvii. 1905; de Witt, Amer. Journ. Anat. iv. 1905; Visentini, Arch. f. Physiol. Suiipl. 1908. Thus when atrophy of the alveolar structure results from ligature of the ducts, the islet-tissue remains unatrophied, and no change occurs in the carbohydrate metabolism, but if the shrunken remains of the gland be now removed—including of course the islet-tissue—diabetes immediately results, just as after extirpation of the whole pancreas. Further, it has been found post mortem in some cases of pancreatic diabetes tliat there has been degenerative change in the islets alone. Gf. Opie, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull. 1900 and 1904; M. B. Schmidt, Miinch. Med. Wochenschr. xlix. 190‘2, and Weichselbaum, Wiener Sitzungsb. cxix. 1910.