THE SPLEEN 408 resembling the lymphoid follicles met with in the intestine and elsewhere. These lymphoid expansions may be seen on the surface of a fresh section of the organ as light-coloured spots scattered in the dark substance composing the pulp (but of a darker colour than the pulp in stained sections of the organ), and have been long noticed and described as the Malfighian corpuscles of the spleen (figs. 605 to 607 and 612). In some cases the corpuscle is developed only on one side of the arterial wall, upon which it then appears to be sessile ; whilst in other instances—and this is the most frequent in the human subject—the expansion surrounds the vessel, which on section is seen to occupy a central or slightly excentric position within the corpuscle. In either case the artery sends off branches which supply capillaries distributed in the corpuscle. In the guinea-pig the lymphoid tissue around the arteries is not swollen out into spherical Malpighian corpuscles, hut its enlargement is uniform over a considerable length of the artery. As just stated, the Malpighian corpuscles are localised expansions of the lymphoid tissue of which the external coat of the smaller arteries of the spleen is Fig. G07.—Veiitical section of a small superficial portion of the human SPLEEN. (From Kulliker.) Magnified with a low power. A, peritoneal and fibrous covering; trabecuhe ; c, c, Malpighian corpuscles, in one of which an artery is seen cut transversely, in the other longitudinally; d, injected arterial twigs; e, spleen-pulp. The clear spaces within this are the venous sinuses. formed, and have apparently been produced, like the nodules found in lymph-glands and in other lymphoid organs, by increased multiplication of lymph-cells at certain spots {germ-centres, Flemming) ; the stainable particles of Flemming (see footnote 1 on p. 402) also occur in them. The reticulum of the lymphoid tissue is comparatively open, being almost absent towards the centre of the corpuscle : at the conftnes it becomes closer; there is, however, no distinct boundary separating it from the reticular tissue of the pulp. The tissue is densely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and traversed, as already stated, by capillaries. The small arteries, shortly after leaving the Malpighian corpuscles, lose their lymphoid sheath and break up into branches. Structures described under the name ‘ ellipsoids,' which are formed of condensations of the reticular tissue of the spleen- pulp not loaded with leucocytes as in the Malpighian corpuseles, are found encircling the terminations of the arterioles. They are stated by W. Muller (bird) and