18(3 MUSCLE I, and the changes which occur in contraction, from the appearance of stained pre- parations, and tends to show that the gold-staining substance of the fibrils—the substance which forms the sarcous elements—is anisotropous, while the substance or fluid of the clear substance as well as the sarcoplasm is isotropous. In muscles Avhich have been treated with acid, by which the sarcous elements are destroyed, all appearance of double refraction is found to have disappeared. Living or fresh muscular fibres of the ordinary variety usually appear bright throughout when examined under crossed nicols (fig. 287). This is due to the fact that owing to their thickness and to compression to which they are subject in examination the planes of the striae generally lie somewhat obliquely, and the polarised light which traverses the fibre must necessarily pass at some level through anisotropous substance. Under these circumstances there is no dark portion of the field visible over the fibre. It has been shown by Ranvier that the appearance of a tissue under polarised light affords, when taken by itself, no sure guide to its structure. The same tissue or part of a tissue may appear either light or dark between crossed nicols, according to the direction and character of the ‘ stress ^ to which it may have been exposed, in the same way that a film of indiarubber, which is normally isotropous, becomes anisotrapous when stretched. Looked at, however, in conjunction with other facts, and especially with the results of difierential methods of staining, the appearance under polarised light afiords important con- firmation of the deductions which can be drawn regarding structure by the employment of these methods ; this is exhibited by the observations upon muscle which have just been alluded to. Briicke applied the theory of Bartholin—invented to explain the phenomena of double refraction in crystals of Iceland spar, and which supposes that those crystals are compounded of minute doubly refracting particles (disdiaclasts)—to the doubly refracting substance of muscle, and gave the same name {disdiaclasts) to the particles of which he supposed that substance to be composed, and which act upon the light like positive, uniaxial, doubly refracting crystals. Under certain circumstances, as after the action of water or salt solution, part of the muscular substance breaks down into a cloud of fine doubly refracting particles which are either themselves the disdiaclasts or represent groups of them. if.M Fig. 287.—Living muscle of a WATEB-BEETLE EXAMINED IN POLABISED LIGHT WITH CBOSSED NicoL PBisMS. (Briicke.) Historical.—Until Bowman published, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1840, his important work on the structure of muscle, the subject was extremely obscure. The view whicli Bowman took of the constitution of muscular substance—namely, that it is composed of a series of particles joined together closely side by side into ‘ discs,’ and less intimatel}^ united end to end into ‘ fibrils ’—for some years occupied a dominant position in this branch of histology. Kolliker, however (1851), laying stress upon the fact that the muscular substance is much more apt to break up into ‘ fibrils ’ than into ‘ discs,’ looked upon the appearance of the latter as altogether secondary, and regarded the ‘ fibrils ’ as the actual elements of the muscle, the alternate dark and light portions in the course of each fibril being of essentially the same nature, although differing somewhat in their optical properties. Afterwards (1867), recognising that the so-called fibrils might be composed of finer elements, or ultimate fibrils, Kiilliker was led to term the structures formerly known as fibrils ‘ muscle-columns,’ the areas of Cohnheim representing the transverse sections of those columns. W. Krause (1868) introduced a new idea into the conception of the structure of the muscle- fibril, by looking upon the intermediate line in the light stripe as a membrane dividing the fibril up into small compartments or eases {Mnskel-kiistchen) (fig. 288, A). Each such case contains, according to Krause, a portion of the dark disc (muscle-prism) in its middle part, and portions