BONE 168 they also receive their osteoblasts by vascular canals which penetrate into them from the marrow spaces of the diaphysis. The epiphyses formed in the above manner are separated, as long as growth continues, from the shaft or diaphysis by an inter- vening portion of cartilage, which is constantly growing; but this is at last ossified, and the bone is then consolidated. Should the intervening cartilage become prematurely calcified or materially injured by disease, or if it is removed by the knife, the growth of the bone in length at the injured end ceases. The ossification of the short bones is also chiefly endochondral, but in the vertebrae the first ossification of the arches is periosteal, and there is also periosteal bone formed at the posterior surface of the vertebral body. Other short bones, such as those of the wrist and ankle, are almost purely endochondral. The osteoblasts which are to form the bone are carried in along vascular canals at one or more points from the perichondrium.^ A remarkable exception to the ordinary mode of ossification of the cartilage-bones occurs in the terminal phalanges of the digits. In these the calcification of the cartilage begins at the distal extremity of tip, and the subperiosteal deposit appears simultaneously at the same point, and forms a cap-like expansion over the end of the phalanx. The irruption of the osteoblastic tissue also first occurs at this place. The expanded portion of the phalanx which bears the nail is formed independently of cartilage.^ G-rowth and absorption of bone.—The time of final junction of the epiphyses is different in different bones ; in many it does not arrive until the body has reached its full stature. Meanwhile, as above described, the bone increases in length by the ossification continuing to extend into the intervening cartilage, which goes on growing at the same time ; and it appears that in the part of the shaft already ossified little or no elongation takes place by interstitial growth. This is shown by an experiment first made by Hales and afterwards by Duhamel and by John Hunter, in which, two or more holes being bored in the growing bone of a young animal at a certain measured distance from each other, they are found after a time not to be farther asunder, although the bone has in the meanwliile considerably increased in length. On the other hand, if one hole be bored in the epiphysis and another in the shaft, they become distinctly removed from one another with the growth of the bone. Both Hales and Duhamel in experimenting on the growing tibia of a chicken, observed that the elongation was much greater at the upper end. Humphry showed that in the arm-bones the elongation is greater at the end farthest from the elbow-joint, and in the leg-bones at the end which is next the knee-joint. In the human subject, between the first and the fourth or fifth years, the long bones grow chiefly in length, scarcely at all in thickness. The shaft of a long bone increases in circumference by deposition of new bone on its external surface, while at the same time its medullary canal is enlarged by absorption from within. This can be determined by two methods of experi- menting. Thus, in the first place, a ring of silver or platinum put round the wing- bone of a growing pigeon, becomes covered with new bone from without, and the original bone included within it gets thinner, or, according to Duhamel, who first made the experiment, is entirely removed, so that the ring comes to lie within the enlarged medullary canal. Secondly, madder given to an animal along with its food tinges those parts in which deposition of new bone is taking place. The earth of bone appears to act as a sort of mordant, uniting with and fixing the colouring matter ; and, as in this way the new osseous growth can be readily dis- tinguished from the old, advantage was taken of the fact by Duhamel, and afterwards by Hunter, in their inquiries as to the manner in which bones increase in size. 1 For an account of the structural changes which accompany such injury, see Jahn, Morph. Arbeiten, i. ^ For many details regarding the ossification of different bones, see Bidder, op. cit. ^ F. A. Dixey, Proc. Boy. Soc. 1880.