]\rUCOUS MEMBRANE 661 *u u 3 presence of this mass of plain muscular tissue in it confers a distinct character on the outer part of the membrane, so that in sections it is differentiated from the inner part or corium. It consists of bands of fibres disposed with comparative regularity near the fundus, being arranged there in numerous concentric rings round the openings of the two Fallopian tubes, the widest circles of the two series meeting from opposite sides in the middle of the uterus. In the lower part of the body, and in the cervix, the internal fibres run more transversely. They form the so-called sphincters of the os internum and os externum. At the neck, however, there are also longitudinal fibres within the transverse. The arrangement of the muscular fibres both of the muscular coat proper and of the mus- cularis mucosae is more regular and more easily made out in the uterus of the lower mammals (below Primates), most of which possess a bi-cornuate uterus consisting of two long tubular portions uniting below before opening into the vagina. A section across one of the horns of such a uterus is represented in fig. 956, from which it will be seen that the fibres of the muscularis mucosae [vi.m.) run almost entirely in a transverse or circular direction, and are imperfectly separated by an areolar layer (a.), containing the large blood-vessels of the organ, from the inner thin layer of circular fibres of the muscular tunic proper {c.m.). Outside these are seen the stout bundles of the-outer or longitudinal muscular layer [l.m.), and most externally the peritoneal or serous coat (s.).‘ As regards its inner part or corium, the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the body differs greatly from that of the cervix, a distinct line of de- marcation separating the two poptions. The mucous membrane of the bochj of the uterus is smooth, except during the menstrual period, and in the unimpreg- nated state is entirely devoid of ridges ; it is of a peculiar soft spongy consistence, of a dull reddish colour, and very vas- cular. Fig. 95G.—Transverse vertical section of the wall OF ONE OF THE CORNUA UTERI OF THE RARBIT. (Schiifer.) s, serous layer ; 1.771., longitudinal fibres of the muscular coat; C.771., circular fibres of the same; a, areolar tissue with large blood-vessels; muscularis mucosas; 7)i., mucosa, with coiled glands. Under the microscope it appears composed in great measure of small, rounded, spindle-shaped, or irregular cells imbedded in a homogeneous ground-substance, and with but few connective-tissue fibres apparent (fig. 2 of Plate). According to Leopold, however, there are numerous fibres, and they form a spongework with lymph- atic spaces in the meshes. The superficial part of the corium has a rich capillary network, but blood-vessels are abundant in all parts of the thickness of the mucous membrane. The inner surface is everywhere covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, and is beset, but somewhat sparingly, witli the orifices of the uterine glands (fig. 2 of Plate). These, which were discovered by Sharpey, are simple ' See on the musculature of tlie uterus, Sobotta, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxviii. 1891. references W. Nagel, ‘ Die weibliche Geschlechtsorgane,’ 189G. For otijer