STRUCTURE OF NERVE-CENTRES 306 already mentioned as giving origin to the fibres of the superior peduncle; and in the worm, on each side, the nucleus tecti, the nucleus glohosus, and the nucleus emboliforniis. These all contain many small nerve-cells, and probably all receive fibres from the cortical grey matter. The grey matter of the cortex cerebelli has its nerve-cells arranged to form three strata (fig. 476). The middle of these is formed by an incomplete layer of very large flask-shaped cells—the cells of Purkinje. These have large, greatly branching dendrons extending into the outer stratum, and an axon which extends through the inner stratum into the white centre : it gives off collaterals which run back- wards into the outer stratum. The inner stratum, which lies between Purkinje's cells and the white centre of each lamina, is mainly formed of very small nerve- cells {granule-layer). These have short dendrons with moss-like endings, and axons which pass between Purkinje's cells into the outer stratum and there bifurcate; here they become fine medullated fibres which run parallel to the direction of the lamina, and are therefore cut across in sections trans- verse to the lamina (fig. 477, I.) and longitudinally in sections parallel to the direction of the lamina (fig. 477, II,). On the other hand the branches of the dendrons of Purkinje’s cells spread out over a considerable area across the direction of the lamina, but not parallel to it. Amongst the granules are some larger nerve-cells {cells of Golgi, fig. 479, G) with axons ending in numerous ramifications near the cell-body, and also the moss-like endings of afierent nerve-fibres, which form synapses with the dendrons of the small nerve-cells. Other afferent nerve-fibres pass through this layer and form synapses with the dendritic processes of Purkinje’s cells {climbing fibres, fig. 479, cl. f.). The outer or molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex is largely formed of the branching dendrons of Purkinje’s cells and of the branches of the axons from the granules of the inner stratmn. But it has in addition certain cells— Fig. 476.—Section of cebebellar cortex. (Sankey.) a, pia mater; 6, molecular layer; c, cells of Purkinje; d, granule-layer; e, white centre. the so-called basket-cells—which have dendrons spreading in the outer layer, but whose axons pass to the cell-bodies of Purkinje's cells and end in basket-like synapses around these and around the axons which are continued from them (fig. 478). The vertical neuroglia-cells in the cerebellar cortex (fig. 479, gl^) have already been noticed. It also contains neuroglia-cells of the ‘ spider ’ and ‘ arborescent' types {gP, gP)