HEART 326 ganglionic system. The sympathetic ganglion-cells were discovered by Kemak in the heart of the calf in 1844 ; the distribution of the nerve-fibres has been recently studied by Dogiel,' Smirnow,^ Valedinsky,^ and Michailow.'* Afferent nerves run along the connective-tissue strands of the heart, and are especially abundant under the intima of the endocardium. A subendocardial Fig. 504.—Teemination op sensoey neeves in heaet. (Dogiel.) nerve-plexus lies next to the myocardium, and consists of bundles of fibres from which spring finer trunks containing one to four medullated or non-medullated fibres (usually the latter), which run towards the intima and there give rise to an endo- cardial nerve-plexus. This latter has many of its fibres in direct contact with the endothelial cells of the intima, and spreads into the auriculo-ventricular valves, being especially abundant where the septum passes into the atrium. From the subendocardial plexus arise medullated fibres, which terminate at different levels of the endocar- dium in special sensory plates after having given rise to numerous terminal non-medullated nerves. The sensory end-plates (fig. 504) are most abundant in the endocardium of the auricles and the auricular sep- tum, but also occur in less complicated forms in the endocardium of the ventricles and in the ventricular septum. Special sensory nerve-terminations are also found in the chordae tendineae, while the semilunar valves do not possess sensory end-plates, but only fine fibres (Smirnow). The epicardium also is richly supplied with special end-plates (Dogiel), each of which according to its size may show three to sixteen nuclei which belong to peculiar star-shaped cells, characterised by a small amount of protoplasm, imbedded in which are fine granules. These specialised connective-tissue cells form the supporting framework of the end-plate (fig. 505). All the nerves in the epicardium are derived from Fig. 506. — End-plate with STELLATE CELLS IN SENSOEY ENDINGS OP HE.\ET. (Dogiel.) ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. liii. 1899. ' Anat. Hefte, xxvii. 1904-5. ^ Ibid. ‘ Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908.