77 AMa^:EOII) AND CILIARY MOVEMENTS acid now at this, now at that point ; tliere is a corresponding tendency of the mercury to flow now in the one and now in the other direction, thus producing changes of shape and even of position whicli perfectly simulate those of an amoeba.^ No adequate explanation of the amoeboid phenomena of protoplasm other than that of variations in surface tension has been offered, and it is now generally accepted by physiologists, although the manner in which such variations are brought about is still open to discussion. The main difference between proto- plasm and the models above described lies in the fact that, whereas in them the variations in surface tension are produced by an external agency, those of proto- plasm may be caused either by external agencies or by internal changes. The altered conditions of surface tension of its protoplasm are also probably respon- sible for the mechanical effects which are produced when the protoplasm of a cell comes in contact with another cell, as well as for the in-taking of foreign bodies by protoplasm (phagocytosis). The view at one time held that the amoeboid movements of a cell are produced by the contraction of the fibrils of a reticulum within its protoplasm is no longer tenable, since it is known that amoeboid protoplasm does not necessarily contain such fibrils. Moreover, the causation of the contraction of these fibrils, if they were present, would still necessitate an explanation. The explanation of ciliary action has been more difficult than that of amoeboid protoplasm, and several hypotheses have been put forward to account for it. It has been suggested, inter alia, that the ‘ rootlets ’ might contract and pull upon the bases of the cilia, or that they might be rigid prolongations of the cilia, moved by movements of the cell-protoplasm and acting as levers upon the projecting filaments. But in the first place many cilia have no rootlets ; and when these do occur it is in the highest degree improbable that they possess either rigidity to enable them to act as levers or contractility to enable them to pull the cilia over. Nor would the hypothesis explain the action of the detached ciliated part of the cell. The explanation which has hitherto been received with most favour suj^poses that each cilium consists of two parts, one side being contractile, the other elastic. The contractile part is sujjposed to bend the filament over, the elastic part to produce recovery.'^ The theory is illustrated by a model which is found in most lecture theatres, consisting of a taj^ered steel band which is pulled over by a string attached to its apex and passing through a ring at its base. It is, however, clear that only a rigid elastic substance like steel could be bent over in this way : if the band were composed of a soft material like the substance of a cilium it would not bend over, but wrinkle up, were one side to contract. Moreover, the model will not act if the string is kept in ajDposition to the steel band; to produce its effect it is necessary that it should, as the steel bends over, occupy the position of the chord of the arc which the bent steel band describes—a condition impossible in the case of a cilium. It is, moreover, in the highest degree improbable that there should be so much differentiation in cilia as this hypothesis imi^lies, seeing that they are found in the lowest and least differentiated organisms. It may safely be asserted that no hypothesis can be satisfactory which does not bring ciliary action into line with amoeboid movement; any explanation which holds good for the one ought to hold good for the other. We have seen that the hypothesis which is found best to explain amoeboid activity is that of variable tension at the surface of the protoplasm. Can this hypothesis be equally applied to explain ciliary action ? The independent movement which has occasionally been observed in severed cilia of Protozoa, and the slow irregular action which has been described in developing cilia (p. 73), may certainly be caused by local changes in tension of the surface film which * Bernstein, Pfiiiger’s Arch. Ixxx. 1900. The original experiment is by Paalzow, Pogg. Ann. 1S85. See also M. Heiclenhain, Anat. Hefte, xxvi. 1904, xxvii. 1905; J. Bernstein, Anat. Hefte, xxvii. 1905; Jansen, ihid. ; Rhumbler, ibid.; H. S. Jennings, Journ. of Applied Microscopy, v. The literature of the subject up to that date is given by Heidenhain. ^ A modification of tliis theory supposes the existence of an elastic skeleton in the middle of the cilium and of contractile material at its periphery. Piitter, Ergebn. der Pliysiol. Jahrg. ‘2, 1904. For a criticism of Piitter’s theory, see Anat. Anz. Bd. xxiv. 1904, p. 497.