579 TRACHEA is a basement-membrane (figs. 841, 842, 6), well marked in the human trachea, tlirough which nerves and processes from the subjacent connective-tissue cells here and there pass into the epithelium. Throughout the mucous membrane a number of fine elastic fibres are found, but in the deeper parts the elastic fibres are very large and numerous {d). Along the posterior membranous part they are more abundant than elsewhere, and are there collected into distinct longitudinal bundles, which produce visible elevations or flutings of the mucous membrane. These, bundles are particularly strong and numerous opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. The epithelium consists of a layer of long columnar ciliated cells, often very irregular at their fixed end, where they are impressed by smaller cells, between which they penetrate to reach the basement-membrane. The cilia serve to drive Fig. 842.—A part of the section represented IN THE PRECEDING FIGURE MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The letters represent the same parts as in that figure. the mucous secretion upwards towards the larynx. Between these ciliated cells are found others, also Fig. 843. — Ciliated epithelium- cells FROM the TBACHEA OF the rabbit. (Schafer.) Highly magnified. m^, m'^, mucus-secreting cells, lying between the ciliated cells, and seen in various stages of mucin- formation. elongated ; they are prolonged at one end towards the surface, whilst the other end, which is not infrequently forked, reaches to the subjacent membrane. These intermediate cells secrete mucus, the globules of which are to be seen in them in various stages of formation ; some are seen to have become converted into goblet- cells by the extrusion of their mucinoid contents (fig. 843). A few lymph-corpuscles are also found amongst the epithelial cells, as in other epithelia. The trachea is provided with numerous small mucous glands. The largest are situated at the back part of the tube, either close upon the outer surface of the fibrous layer, or occupying little recesses formed between its meshes. Smaller glands are found between the cartilaginous rings upon and within the fibrous membrane, and still smaller ones close beneath the mucous membrane. They are racemose glands, and their alveoli are lined by columnar epithelium : the ex- cretory ducts pass through the muscular layer and the mucous membrane, on the surface of which their orifices are perceptible. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the trachea are principally derived from the inferior thyroid. The larger branches run for some distance longitudinally and then join a superficial capillary plexus with polyhedral meshes. The \'cins