105 FiBRpJs OF connp:ctivp: tissue tissue which has l)ceii stretched out upon tlie slide the fibres we are now considering are seen to run nearly straight and without waves ; but if in preparing the specimens Fig. 171.—Subcutaneous akeolar tissue from a young rabbit. (Schiifer.) Highly magnified. The figure shows the appearance of the tissue examined perfectly fresh in a preparation made by the demi-desiccation method and moistened only with lymph. The white fibres are in wavy bundles, the. elastic fibres form an open network, v, vacuo- lated clasmocytes; c, branching finely granular clasmocyte; g, granular cell (mast-cell) ; /, fibrillated cell; the remainder are lamellar cells. Drawn under Zeiss’ 2 mm. apochromatic homogeneous-immersion objective, and No. 8 compensating eyepiece. they are anywhere broken across, the broken ends tend to curl up, much in the same way that a thread of indiarubber when stretched to breaking tends to curl at the broken ends (fig. 172). These are the elastic fibres of connective tissue : they are also known as the yellow fibres, because when massed together, as occurs in an elastic ligament, they exhibit a yellowish colour. Their number as compared with the white fibres varies greatly in different parts of the areolar tissue ; in some parts they are only seen here and there crossing the field of the microscope, in other parts they occur thickly. Chemically as well as microscopically they are very different from the white fibres. They resist boiling, but eventually partly dissolve, yielding a substance known as elastin ; they also resist the action of dilute acids and alkalies and digestive ferments, but the latter eventually dissolve them.' This resistance to chemical reagents is due to a fine sheath (Schwalbe) which en- closes the elastin ; the latter may be dissolved out from the sheath. They stain intensely with certain dyes (magenta, kreoso-fuchsin,- orcein), and may then be readily picked out wherever they occur. (From the subcutaneous tissue of the rabbit.) ' Cf. Pfeuffer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xvi 187'.). - Rbthig, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivi. 11)00.