OSSIFICATION IN CAUTILACrE 165 deposit takes place in the same way as in the formation of a membrane bone. Bony spicules prolonged by osteogenic fibre-bundles (fig. 253) project out from the previously formed layer into the intervals between the blood-vessels. By the union of the spicules the vessels become in like manner enclosed in channels whose walls are gradually thickened by deposits of osseous substance, between which some of the osteoblasts are left behind as bone-corpuscles in lacuna), whilst others remain within the meshes. The question whether bone can be directly formed from' cartilage by a transformation of the cartilage-matrix into osseous tissue, whilst the cartilage-cells become bone-corpuscles (metaplastic ossification), is one which has been much discussed ; it is probable that it should be decided in the negative. There is no evidence to show that true bone is formed in any other way than through the agency of osteoblasts. The first formed bony tissue is different in its general appearance from the bony tissue of the adult, being reticular and not regularly lamellar, and, for a long while, even the shafts of the long bones are rather cancellated than compact in their texture. The more obviously lamellated condition does not begin to appear until about the sixth month after birth, when the periosteum deposits a succession of entire lamellae around the embryonic bone. The blood-vessels which pass from the periosteum into the bone pierce these circum- ferential lamellae, and spaces become absorbed around the vessels, the appearance known as Haversian spaces being produced (see p. 152). The Haversian canals of compact bone become formed later, after such absorption has taken place around the blood- vessels, the absorption being succeeded by a re-deposition of concentric lamellae within the Haversian spaces thus formed. Immediately before the occurrence of the lamellar deposition under the periosteum just referred to, the young bone undergoes a process of absorption from the inside. The marrow canal becomes thereby enlarged, and the marrow spaces, particularly those near the marrow canal, partaking of this absorption and enlargement, the result is that at about this period there is less bony matter in a section of the shaft than there was immediately before. To the change in question Schwalbe has given the name ‘ osteoporosis.’ It is followed by a re-deposition of osseous lamellae both on the wall of the medullary canal and on the walls of the marro w spaces of the embryonic osseous tissue. Since the cartilage grows in every dimension by interstitial expansion, the bone which is invading it {endochondral bone) extends over a gradually enlarging area as the ossification advances. It is narrowest near the centre of the shaft where the process began, and widens gradually towards the ends ; it has thereforesomewhat of an hour-glass shape (fig. 248, i.c.). The Fig. 253.—Pabt of a tbansveese section of a developing LONG BONE, BATHEB MOBE ADVANCED THAN THAT BEPBE- SENTED IN FIG. 248, AND UNDEB A HIGHEB MAGNIFYING POWEB. (Schiifer.) cb, endochondral bone which began as a calcification of the cartilage-matrix, parts of which still remain (c) covered over by secondary osseous deposit; o, secondary areolse, occupied by vessels, foetal marrow, and osteoblasts; p&, periosteal bone deposited in the form of irregular trabeculae, prolonged exter- nally by bony spicules passing into bunches of osteogenic fibres. These, which are everywhere covered with osteoblasts, become lost in the external fibrous layer of the periosteum, p ; bl, hi, blood-vessels variously cut.