NEKVE-FIBKKS 236 become formed.' The alternative view, that the myelin is formed by the cells which produce the nucleated sheath or ncurolemma, is less probable, since these cells do not exist in the substance of the brain and cord, although the fibres here are all myelinated. Further, all degenerative changes which occur in a nerve-fibre, whether in the central nervous system or at the periphery, are shared equally by the axis-cylinder and the surrounding myelin; in the latter they appear, in fact, to commence. Non-medullated fibres.—These (figs. 370, 371) are exclusively connected with sympathetic ganglion-cells, of which they represent the axons. They have Fig. 370.—Non-meduglated nebve-fibres. (Schafer.) Magnified 400 diameters. nuclei upon them at frequent intervals- These nuclei appear to be interpolated in the substance of the non-medullated fibre, although they have been thought to belong to a delicate sheath. It is, however, impossible to demonstrate the existence of such a sheath as distinct from the axon. Non-medullated fibres are destined for the plain muscular tissue of the viscera and blood- vessels, for the arrector muscles of the hairs (pilo- motor nerves), for the muscular tissue of the heart, and for the cells of secreting glands, and in all these situations they end by fine extended arbo- risations between the tissue-elements to which their twigs are applied, sometimes in the form of small dilatations. In some situations the endings have been described as continued into the interior of the cells, but whether this is so must be regarded as doubtful. Although characteristic of sympathetic nerves, to which they imjiart when numerous a greyish appearance, non-medullated fibres are also found intermingled with the medullated in most peripheral nerves (to which they have passed from the sympathetic).' They are not found in the central nervous system, if we except those dis- tributed to the blood-vessels of the brain and cord, nor in the nerve-roots except such fibres as may be passing along the roots to those blood - vessels. But in the anterior nerve-roots of all the thoracic and most of the lumbar nerves, in those of the second and third sacral, and in the roots of some of the cranial nerves (seventh,* ninth, tenth, and eleventh) there occur amongst the ordinary large and medium-sized nerve-fibres a number of very fine medullated fibres which are usually collected in one or more distinct groups, and which are looked upon as belonging to the autonomic nerves." In the case of the sjDinal nerves these fine medullated fibres pass to the nerve-root / Fig. 871.—Section of part of a SYMPATHETIC NEBVE OF THE OX. (Cajal.) 21, perineurium; E, nou-medullated fibres ; n, a nucleus. ' All iirotoplasm contains the constituents of myelin; probably that of the nerve-cell more than that of ordinary cells. Sometimes the body of a spinal ganglion-cell has an envelope of myelin (fig. 347) - According to F. S. W. Kanson (Anat. Record iii. 1909), non-medullated fibres are much more numerous in ordinary nerves than has usually been supposed. He regards them as arising from the small ganglion-cells of the spinal ganglia, having found that after division of a nerve which contained only 1,500 medullated fibres, no fewer than 4,500 of the spinal ganglion-cells underwent Nissl degenera- tion (Journ. Comp. Neurol, xvi.). ^ The autonomic system of nerves and ganglia includes not only what has hitherto been known as the sympathetic system, but also other nerve-fibres and ganglia which are distributed to the visceral and vascular systejn, such as the inhibitory fibres of the heart, the secretory fibres of the secretory glands, the vaso-dilator fibres of the pelvic viscera, &c. Langley, Schafer’s Text-book of Physiology. See also Schiifer and Symington’s Neurology, Part I. (vol. iii. Part I. of this work).