THE BLOOD 884 Fig. 575.—Cells with ieregulab lobed nuclei from BONE-MARROW OF RABBIT. (M. Heidenhain.) near together or distributed over a considerable area of the protoplasm. When the nucleus is annular they lie in the middle of the ring, when horseshoe-shaped, in the centre of the curve. These cells are generally stated to divide amitotically * and thus to break up into polymorph myelocytes, from which it is thought they have been originally derived.^ Giant-cells of this character are often met with in places where blood-corpuscles are in process of development, although it is not understood what relationship, if any, they bear to the process of hsema- genesis. Amongst the myelocytes and megakaryocytes are smaller cells which have a reddish colour, and resemble the primitive nucleated red corpuscles of the embryo (Plate, e' e"); these are the erythro- hlasts, which are concerned in the formation of the red blood-discs, and are perhaps themselves originally derived from colourless myelocytes. The cells of the marrow are everywhere supported by a close network or feltwork of collagenous fibrils (fig. 201, p. 123), which constitute a sustentacular reticulum for its elements and blood-vessels. The reticulum also comprises some branched connective-tissue cells, which are more numerous in young marrow.^ There is reason to believe that apart from loss or de- struction of erythrocytes due to accident or disease, and in the female accompanying men- struation, a regular destruction and reproduction of erythro- cytes is always proceeding with- in the body. The evidence of destruction is derived partly from the continuous formation of pigments which are either certainly or probably derived from the haemoglobin of blood- corpuscles — e.g. the bile-pig- ments and the pigment of the hairs and skin; partly from the histological evidence obtain- able in such organs as the spleen and other blood- and lymph-glands, which contain cells enclosing erythrocytes in every stage of disin- tegration, from complete discs such as are found in the circulating blood to Pig. 576.—Giant-cell of marrow with multiple CENTRiOLEs. (M. Heideiiliain.) a, h, c, d, various zones of the cytoplasm. The nucleus is very large and annular, with irregular lobes and numerous nucleoli. ^ According to C. E. Walker they may also divide mitotically (Proc. Koy. Soc. B. Ixxviii. 1906). - See on the giant-cells of marrow, W. H. Howell, Journ. Morph, iv. isOO; M. Heidenhain, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. xliii. 1894; G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. x. 1902; Schridde, Anat. Hefte, xxxiii. 1907 ; A. Goodall, o}). cit. A description of the cells met with in bone-marrow both in normal and patho- logical conditions will be found in the monograph by Carnegie Dickson, ‘ Bone-Marrow,’ Longmans, London, 1908. ^ C. M. Jackson, Arch. f. Anat. 1904.