TESTICLE 618 give tlie appearance of a bnsement-incmbrane ; but there may be a delicate base- ment-membrane next to the epithelium. Towards the mediastinum testis several tubuli contort! join to form the tubuli recti (fig. 898) ; before their junction they become considerably smaller, and the tubuli recti preserve the smaller diameter. These tubules possess only a single layer of epithelium, so that their lumen is larger than that of the tubuli contort!. As they approach the mediastinum the connective-tissue wall of the tubuli contort! becomes loosened out and blends with the connective tissues of the mediastinum testis, so that the tubules of the rete testis have no membrana propria distinct from the general connective tissue between them. A basement-membrane similar to that of the tubuli contort! reappears, however, in the efferent ducts of the testis and the coni vasculosi, and circular muscular fibres are added in the coni vasculosi and in the duct of the epididymis. Fig. 899.—Section of a testicle of a 9-yeae-old child. (Spangaro.) a, enlarged cells (spermatogonia), some of them dividing; several contain crystals (Lubar’s crystals); h, cells lining the tubule; c, coagulated contents of tubule; d, interstitial tissue ; e, mast-cells. Spermatog'enesis.—The seminiferous tubules are lined with several layers of epithelium-cells which vary in appearance according to the condition of develop- ment of the spermatozoa. In the young subject before puberty the epithelium is formed of two or three layers of cells (fig. 899), which show no well-marked distinction, except that those of the outer layer next to the membrane of the tubule are rather more regularly arranged than the rest ; the cells at first almost fill the tubule, leaving little or no lumen. Amongst them a certain number of large, clear cells begin quite early to be differentiated : these become the spermatogonia (see below). After puberty some tubules are to be seen containing fully developed spermatozoa, and others at various stages of forma- tion (fig. 900), and, as just mentioned, the appearance of the tubules differs accordingly (figs. 901, 902). In tubules in which the spermatozoa are fully developed and ready to be discharged there appear to be three layers of cells, viz.: 1, the lining epithelium, formed of cubical cells, some of which enlarge to form the sper- matogonia ; 2, large spherical cells derived from these and themselves in process of