580 LUNGS enter the adjacent plexuses of the thyroid veins. A rich plexus of lymphatics may readily be injected in the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, where they form separate networks, but the lymphoid follicles, so common in the alimentary mucous membrane, and also in the walls of the smaller bronchi, are rarely present. When they occur they usually surround the ducts of the glands as they pass through the mucous membrane. The nerves come from the trunk and recurrent branches of the pneumogastric, and from the sympathetic system. There are numerous ganglia upon them, especially outside the muscular layer at the back of the tube. Nerve- fibrils penetrate between the epithelium-cells. In the dog, cat, sheep, and rabbit, chiefly by the superior laryngeal nerve, through the anastomosis between the superior and inferior nerves in the larynx (Kandarazi). Bronchi.—The general structure of the undivided portions of the bronchi Fig. 844.—Diagbam of the ending of a BBONCHiAL TUBE. (W. S. Miller.) B, termination of lobular bronchiole in V, vestibule, by means of which it communicates with the atria, A; S, air-sac, opening out of atrium, and beset with air-cells, C; P, lobular arteriole ; T, one of the lobular venules. the upper half of the trachea is supplied V s b Fig. 845.—Section of lung (human). (F. Merkel.) Low power. a, artery; v, vein; b, small bronchial tube opening into terminal or lobular bronchiole, wliich communicates with the groups of alveoli (air-sacs, s). corresponds with that of the trachea in every particular. Their cartilaginous rings, which resemble those of the trachea in being imperfect behind, are, however, shorter and narrower. The number of these rings on the right side varies from six to eight, whilst on the left the number is from nine to twelve. The bronchi are supplied by the bronchial arteries and veins, and the nerves are from the same source as those of the trachea. THE LUNGS. Termination of the bronchi; structure of the bronchial tubes.— The principal divisions of the bronchi, as they pass into the lungs, divide into tubes of less calibre, and these again subdivide in succession into smaller and smaller tubes, often distinguished as bronchia, bronchioles, or bronchial tubes, which, diverging in all directions, never anastomose, but terminate separately. The larger