LYMPH-VESSELS 358 stomata are most readily seen in the peritoneal wall of the cisterna magna or great lymph-sac in the frog ; the cells lining the stomata become ciliated during the winter season in female frogs and toads (Klein), so as to direct the lymph-flow from the big lymph-sac over the developing ova. Remak was the first to notice these cilia, but he mistook the stomata for vesicles. In some of the lower animals the lacunar condition of lymphatics has been long known. Rusconi found that the aorta and mesenteric arteries of amphibia are enclosed in large lymphatic spaces. Johannes Muller recognised the spaces which so extensively separate the frog’s skin from the subjacent muscles as belonging to the lymphatic system, and v. Recklinghausen showed that the subcutaneous lymph-spaces of the frog’s leg communicate with lymphatic vessels which envelop the blood-vessels of the foot; also that milk injected into these spaces finds its way into the blood. The lymphatic system, with its lacunae or interstitial receptacles, resembles the blood-vascular system of crustaceans and insects. Structure.—The smallest lymph-vessels, as already mentioned, are larger than the blood-capillaries. The endothelial cells show a markedly sinuous outline, which is well seen in fig. 548. Lymph-vessels differ from blood-vessels in that their diameter varies greatly within short distances—a very wide space may suddenly become narrowed down to a close passage, as is seen in figs. 548 and 549 ; and also in that their walls are thinner in proportion to their calibre and less s}’'stematically arranged into tunics. In the larger vessels, from about 0.25 mm. upwards, there are present in the tunica intima, in addition to the endothelial lining, elastic fibres run- ning longitudinally, forming a more or less complete net- work, which in the largest lymphatics may become mem- branous in character. Where, however, a great deal of elastic tissue exists in the surround- ing tissues, as in the mesentery of mammals, the elastic tissue I of the lymphatics is absent or greatly reduced. In all large lymph-vessels, as in blood-vessels, three dis- tinct tunics are met with. Outside the tunica intima is the tunica media, consist- ing of muscle-fibres running transversely and obliquely, strengthened by a few trans- verse elastic fibres. The outer coat (tunica externa sen adventitia) is, in the small lymphatics, the most charac- teristic ; it contains amongst the longitudinally placed connective-tissue elements a considerable number of non-striped muscle-fibres running longitudinally and obliquely, a feature rarely met with in the blood-vascular system except in the large veins. Both large and moderate-sized lymphatics have blood-vessels ramifying in their outer coat.^ In the thoracic duct there is a subendothelial layer, as in the large arteries, and it also contains elastic fibres forming a longitudinal network. The tunica media has Fig. 548.—Part of a lymphatic vessel in the pleural COVERING OF THE DIAPHRAGM. -f-- (Raiivier.) I, I, the lymphatic vessel with characteristic sinuous endo- thelium ; c, cell-spaces of the connective tissue 1 H. M. Evans, Amer. Journ. Anat. vii. 1907.