SECKETION-GRANULES 437 the protoplasm as small granules, and gradually acquire the size and characters which distinguish them when ripe and ready for extrusion from the cell (figs. 646, 647). But even in the mature state their chemical characters may differ from those of the substance which represents them in the extruded secretion; this is shown, inter alia, by their varying behaviour to stains. A difference of this nature was found by Klein to obtain with the granules in mucin- secreting cells, and he accordingly termed these granules ‘ mucinogen," as giving rise on extrusion to mucin. There is not sufficient evidence that the granules multiply by fission, as Altmann supposed to be the case. Altmann indeed looked upon cell-granules in general as being themselves minute organisms (‘ Die Elementar-organismen," 1890) capable of growth and multiplication more or less independently of the cell as a whole ; this view has not been widely accepted. The changes undergone by secretion-granules are readily studied in mucin- secreting cells and especially in the so-called ‘ goblet-cells ^ which occur as isolated elements amongst the ordinary cells of columnar and ciliated epithelium (fig. 648). ‘ Goblet-cells ^ are in fact unicellular glands such as occur not infrequently in the integument of certain invertebrate animals. In these cells, as a rule, only the Fig. 646.—A cell from the poison-gland OF A SALAMANDER-TADPOLE, FILLED WITH SECRETION-GRANTJLES. ( G U 1’ W i t S C ll . ) Highly magnified. Some of the granules are swollen out into globules. Fig. 647.—Cells from poison-gland of salamander-tadpole, showing secretion- granules IN DIFFERENT STAGES OF FORMATION AND OF TRANSFORMATION INTO DROPLETS. (Gurwitsch.) Highly magnified. One of the cells has two nuclei; in another the nucleus isjnot seen. half directed to the free surface becomes occupied with the secretion-granules, the basal part, containing the nucleus, remaining free from distinct granules; although, as with all protoplasm, it may have a finely granular appearance. The mucin-granules which first make their appearance in the free half of the cell