196 PLAIN MUSCLE (fig. 299), which has been interpreted by some authors to represent a condition of localised contraction. It is, however, by no means clear that this is the true interpretation of the appearance in question, for fully contracted fibres may show no such structure. A similar appearance is sometimes seen in striated muscle. The condensations stain more deeply with iron-hsematoxylin than the rest of the fibres, and in the fresh condition they are more highly refracting. Mcadl describes the fibrillse as being thickened at these knots.' Plain muscular tissue is found in the eoats of the mem- branous viscera. It is met with in the lower half of the gullet, the stomach, and the whole intestinal canal; that is, both in the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, and also as a layer in the tissue of the mucous membrane, and in the villi; in the trachea and bronchial tubes, in the bladder and meters, and the ducts of the larger glands generally, in the uterus and its appendages, in the corpora cavernosa of both sexes, in the prostate gland, in the spleen, in the muscle of Miiller at the back of the orbit, and in the ciliary muscle Fig. 299.—A smooth muscle-fibee fbom the INTESTINE SHOWING KNOT-LIKE CONDENSA- TIONS OF THE CYTOPLASM. (Griitzner.) ■ h I Fig. 300.—Muscul.ar fibees (a) FEOM NON-PEEGNANT, {h) FEOM PEEGNANT UTEEUS, DEAWN TO THE SAME SCALE. (Sellheim.) and iris. The middle eoat of the arteries, the coats of many veins and those of the larger lymphatics contain plain muscular tissue. In the skin it is present in the tubules of the sweat- glands lymg between the secreting epithelium and the basement-membrane, in the form of minute muscles attached to the hair-follicles, and in the dartos or subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum. Numerous nerves, chiefly of the pale variety, are supplied to this tissue ; before their ultimate distribution they frequently come into connexion with microscopic ganglia. In the stomaeh and intestines there is a richly gangliated plexus—the plexus mijentericus of Auerbach—between the longitudinal and circular layers of the muscular coat, and from the nerve-cells of this plexus fine non-medullated fibres pass to be distributed in ramifications ^ For an account of the literature regarding these appearances and of plain muscle generally, see Griitzner, Ergebn. d. Physiol, iii. 1904. See also on the subject of plain muscle, M. Heidenhain, Ergebn. d. Anat. x. 1900; Henneberg, Anat. Hefte, xv. 1901; Heiderich, ihUl. xix. 1902; Caroline McGill, Anat. Anz. 1907 ; also in Amer. .Tourn. Anat. ix. 1909. The variations in the nuclei of smooth muscle are also dealt with in this paper.