ADIPOSE TISSUE 126 embryonic development, and even before fat is deposited in its cells, appears as a distinct gland-like clump, which is sometimes termed the renal fat-organ. In amphibians this organ forms a free lobulated projection into the peritoneal cavity, being united to the tissue at the back of the abdomen by a narrow pedicle. Adipose tissue is seen filling up the furrows on the surface of the heart, and imbedding the vessels of that organ which run beneath its serous cover- ing ; and in various other situations it is deposited beneath the serous membranes, or is collected between their folds, as in the mesen- tery and omentum, generally at first gathering along the course of the blood-vessels and at length accumulating very copiously. Collections of fat are also common round the joints, lying on the outer surface of the synovial membrane, and filling up inequalities; in many cases lodged in folds of the membrane, which project into the ar- ticular cavity. Lastly, the fat exists in large quantity in the marrow of bones. On the other hand, there are some parts in which fat is never found in the healthy condition of the body. Thus it does not exist in the eyelids and penis, nor in the lungs except near their roots, nor within the cavity of the cranium. Structure.—When subjected to the micro- scope, adipose tissue is seen to consist of small vesicles, filled with an oily matter, and for the most part lodged in the meshes of areolar tissue. The vesicles are most commonly collected into lobular clusters (fig. 206), and these again into the little lumps of fat which we see with the naked eye, and which in some parts are aggregated into round or irregular masses of considerable magnitude. Sometimes the vesicles, though grouped together, have less of a clustered arrangement; as when they collect Fig. 207.—A few cells from the margin of the fat-lobule REPRESENTED IN THE PRECEDING FIGURE. (Schafer.) Highly magnified. f.g., fat-globule distending a fat-cell; n, nucleus; m, membranous envelope of the fat-cell; c r, bunch of crystals within a fat-cell; c, capillary vessel; v, venule ; c.f., connective-tissue cell; the fibres of the connective tissue are not represented. Fig. 206.—A small fat-lobule from the subcutaneous tissue OF THE GUINEA-PIG. (Schafer.) Magnified about 20 diameters. a, small artery distributed to the lobule; v, small vein; the capillaries within the lobule are not visible.