STRUCTUKE OF ERYTHROCYTES 3G9 forms in consequence of exposure ; the figures they assume are various, but most of them become lengthened and pointed at the ends, and often slightly bent, not unlike caraway-seeds (Gulliver). Structure of the erythrocyte. — Each red corpuscle is formed of two parts, a coloured and a colourless. The former is mainly a solution of hcBmoglobin in water, but containing also certain salts, those of potassium preponderating. Water constitutes about two-thirds of the corpuscles ; if the w'ater is driven off, about 90 per cent, of the dry residue is haemoglobin. The colourless part of the corpuscle (the so-called stroma of Rollett'), which is in by far the smaller quantity, consists of a containing membrane, composed of various substances, chief among these being nucleo-proteids such as are found in ordinary cytoplasm. In addition there are always present lecithin and cholesterin, which are also constant constituents of cytoplasm. These are believed by Overton to form the surface-layer of cell-protoplasm through which osmotic effects are produced (see p. 11). In the erythrocyte there is reason to believe that they form a thin film on the surface of the membrane (see next page). If water be added to a preparation of blood under the microscope, the water is imbibed and the con- cave sides of the corpuscle become bulged out so that it is rendered globular (fig. 559, a-d). By the further action of water the haemoglobin is dissolved out of the corpuscle,^ and the colourless part or stroma remains as a faint circular outline (e). This simple experiment conclusively shows that the corpuscle is composed of a membrane or external envelope with coloured fluid contents, for the above reaction is precisely the same as would occur by osmosis if a vesicle of the shape of the corpuscle covered by a semi-permeable membrane and filled with a solution containing electrolytes were placed in water. On the other hand it is inexplicable on the supposition that the corpuscle is com- posed of a uniform disc-shaped stroma permeated with coloured substance, which is the view originally advocated by Bruecke and Rollett, and adopted until lately by nearly all writers on the subject; for if this were the case water should swell it out uniformly, as happens if a disc of gelatine is placed in water—the whole disc imbibing the water, and becoming increased in size while retaining its original shape. Further indications of the above structure are provided by the effects of mechanical injuries. If the corpuscles are suddenly pressed they become ruptured and the haemoglobin escapes, leaving the colourless part of the corpuscle as a mere outline. If blood is frozen the ice-crystals which form injure the envelope, and on thawing the haemoglobin escapes into the serum. Electric shocks passed through blood, if sufficiently strong, also injure the delicate envelope of the corpuscles. Dilute acids act like water, but decompose the haemoglobin into colourless protein (globin) and haematin, which are both ^ssolved by the acid. In the case of tannic acid, the products of decomposition are usually precipitated upon the envelope in the form of a small dark red coagulum ^ (fig. 559, g). Alkalies, even when very dilute, cause a complete disappearance of the red corpuscles, the membranes as well as the haemoglobin being dissolved. Ether and chloroform also produce laking (L h c cl e I ^ o o Fig. 559.—a-e, successive effects of water upon a red blood- corpuscle ; a, corpuscle seen edgeways, slightly swollen; b, c, one of the sides bulged out (cup form); d, spherical form ; e, decolorised stroma; /, a thorn-apple-shaped cor- puscle (due to exposure); g, action of tannin upon a red corpuscle. 1 Article ‘ Blood ’ in Strieker’s Histology, 1870. ^ This passage of haemoglobin out of the corpuscle, however produced, is termed ‘ laking ’ of tho blood, in consequence of the distinctive colour which it produces in a sample of blood (see p. 371). ^ W. Roberts, Proc. Roy. Soc. xii. 1862-3. VOL. II. PART I. B B