334 ELOOD-VESSELS which the inner coat undergoes when we pass from the iliac artery to the aorta affect essentially the yellow and the white fibrous elements. In the aorta (see fig. 516) the internal elastic lamina is no longer recognisable. Griinstein/ on making longitudinal sections through the iliac vessel where its lower reaches pass into the upper ones and the latter into the aorta, found the internal elastic lamina gradually to lose its membranous character by breaking up into numerous fine fibrils; while the second lamina found in the lower portions of the iliac artery, which is sometimes called the middle elastic lamina and counted as belonging to the tunica media (following the classification of Ranvier-), does not break up into fibrils but retains its membrane-like appearance. The transition of the iliac artery into the aorta is further marked by a gradual increase in the amount of connective tissue between the internal elastic lamina and the endothelial layer, in addition to the increase of connective tissue between the internal and the second elastic lamina ; this connective tissue forming the sub- endothelial layer. It is this increase of white fibrous tissue on the inside of the internal lamina which will engage our attention later when studying the changes the aorta undergoes during normal conditions as we pass from childhood to old age ; the increase is also of importance in connexion with the pathological changes wliich are liable to occur in these arteries. middle coat.—While the external iliac artery still resembles the medium- sized vessels inasmuch as the non-striped muscle is arranged almost exclusively in a circular manner and is formed into bundles on the outer surface of the media where it abuts on the tunica adventitia, in the common iliac vessel, near the aorta, and in the aorta itself, the middle coat exhibits a definite lamellar arrange- ment owing to the development within it of a number of concentric elastic laminae. The order of tissues in the tunica media is as follows, viz. :—a thick Fig. 517.—Portion of fenestrated mem- brane FROM THE FEMORAL ARTERY. (Henle.) Magnified 200 diameliers. a, h, c, perforations; d, folds. elastic lamina ; white fibrous tissue containing delicate elastic fibres running in different planes ; non-striped muscle-fibres ; white fibrous tissue with fine elastic fibres ; a thick elastic lamina, and so on. The number of elastic laminae varies from about forty in the new-born to about between fifty and seventy in the adult; this increase in number is itself considerable, and the thickness of each individual lamina is much greater in the adult than in the young. If a small shred of one of these laminai be stripped off it is seen to have a remarkable tendency to 1 N. Griiustein, ‘ Uber d. Bau d. grdsseren luenschlichen Arterien &c.,’ Arch. f. mikr. Auat. xlvii. 1890. Kanvier, Traitc technique d’histologie, Paris, 1875 and 1889. Fig. 518.—Elastic network of ARTERY. (Toldt.)