383 DEVELOPMENT OF ERYTHROCYTES IN BONE-MARROW in size. Others have coarse oxyphil granules and others coarse basiphil granules like those in the mast-cells of connective tissue. There are also myelocytes which are highly amoeboid and phagocytic : these have a lobulated nucleus and resemble the polymorph leucocytes of the blood. All the varieties of myelocyte are held by some authors to be derived from the blood-lymphocytes; others look upon them as independent, and as furnishing the source of the granular and polymorpli blood- leucocytes. Myelocytes have occasionally been noticed to contain one or more red corpuscles in their interior (Osier) : these are phagocytic cells, and the erythroblasts within them are probably in process of transformation into pigment-granules. Cells containing reddish pigment-granules are, indeed, not uncommon. There further occur in the marrow of growing bones numerous large multi- nucleated cells {osteoclasts of Kolliker) (figs. 259, 260), which appear to be more Fig. 574.—Section of ked mabrow. (Carnegie Dickson.) Magnified 300 diameters. The clear spaces are due to the presence of fat-cells. especially concerned with the process of absorption of bone, under which head they have been already alluded to (p. 169). But in the adult marrow other giant- cells (myeloplaxes of Robin) are met with (see Plate), which vary much in size, but are always larger than the proper marrow-cells. Their nucleus is not usually multiple, but it is enlarged—hence the term megakanjocyte which has been applied to these cells—and presents indications of subdivision (fig. 575) ; it may even be so constricted as to exhibit an irregularly moniliform appearance. Frequently it is horseshoe-shaped, and not infrequently annular. The protoplasm of the megakaryocyte is usually oxyphil, and shows a differentiation into three zones (M. Heidenhain) (fig. 576). According to Schridde the megakaryocytes are amoeboid, but not phagocytic, and the granules they contain are not identical with those of the leucocytic myelocytes. He believes that there is no genetic connexion between the giant-cells and leucocytes of marrow. As M. Heidenhain has shown, the megakaryocytes have a number of centrioles, as well as a large number of nucleoli. Their centrioles may be accumulated