G40 ri^OSTATE It is a firm, glandular, and muscular body, comparable in size and shape to a chestnut, traversed by the first part of the urethra and by the common ejaculatory ducts. It also encloses the prostatic utricle. Structure,—The gland is covered by a dense fibrous coat, which is continuous with the recto-vesical fascia, and with the superior layer of the triangular ligament. This fibrous capsule, which includes much plain muscular tissue, is divisible into two layers, between which the prostatic plexus of veins is enclosed (Adams). From the capsule trabeculse extend through the gland towards the colliculus seminalis. The glandular substance is associated with a large quantity of plain muscular tissue, which forms the principal part of the stroma of the organ (fig. 930). This muscular tissue forms an external layer below the fibrous capsule, and extends everywhere through the glandular substance : there is also a strong layer of circular fibres c V • '(■■f ■ 1;: 'V .*• <• V, . \ W ■ V'.v n'li.' , % • ■' , i ^ -Sr ■ - ^ * . Wi • t s V •% - <v, fTvTiS., • V '■ ■ \> I" ' i’/, , N ,..■>». a '* S' '' fc'i*! t' / Fig. 930.—Section of prostate of monkey. (F. H. A. Marshall.) a, alveolus; h, concretion within an alveolus; c, muscular fibres in stroma; d, a blood-vessel. continuous posteriorly with those of the bladder, and in front with the thin layer surrounding the membranous part of the urethra. The part of the prostate above or in front of the urethra is almost entirely muscular ; in the hinder part the muscular substance is in greatest quantity near the bladder. Small nodules of Ivmphoid tissue are found in certain parts of the gland. The glandular substance is spongy and yielding ; its colour is reddish-grey, or sometimes brownish. It consists of numerous tubular alveoli, which unite into a smaller number of excretory ducts (15 to 30). The tubular alveoli are beset everywhere with irregular evaginations, many of which are branched ; their branches may anastomose with one another to form networks. The epithelium is short- columnar or cubical throughout; there is a second layer of small cells next to the basement-membrane. In the foetus and child the epithelium forms several layers and may nearly fill the tubules. In the adult there are frequent papillary elevations of the gland-wall, covered by thickened epithelium (fig. 930). There is a thin