W A LLE in A N T)E CrE N 1<: H A 'PI () N 245 the neural epithelium, and are therefore ectodermic iu nature, is a question which requires further investigation ; the latter appears the more probable hypothesis^ The formation of the medullary sheath occurs, not simultaneously over the wliole nervous system, but in regular order along definite tracts at different periods of late foetal and early post-foetal life ; the knowledge of this in the hands of Flechsig has proved an important means of tracing the course of strands of fibres in the nervous centres. The fact that the nerve-segments or internodes of the peripheral nerves are considerably shorter in the young animal points to the existence of an interstitial as well as a terminal growth of nerve-fibres. Besides such expansion of the inter- nodes, Yignal has described another method of growth in length of nerve-fibres ; cells similar to those which originally produced the nucleated sheath, applying themselves to the axis-cylinder at the nodes, and determining an increase in length of the nodal axis-cylinder, upon which a formation of myelin occurs, so that a short segment becomes intercalated at the node. These short segments soon grow so as to attain the length of the remaining segments of the nerve-fibre. Neuro-fibrils appear comparatively early in the neuroblasts. They have been detected even before the axon-process begins to grow out from the cell-body, and increase in number as development proceeds.^ DEGENERATION AND REGENERATION OF NERVES The divided ends of a nerve that has been cut across readily reunite by cicatricial connective tissue, but the cut ends of the fibres themselves do not thus unite. On the contrary, soon after the section, a process of degeneration begins in the peripheral or severed portion of the nerve. The medulla of the white fibres breaks up into a gTanular mass consisting of fatty globules, and is eventually totally removed, its place being taken by a mass of protoplasm ; the axial fibre also early breaks up and disappears (fig. 383, A, B, and C). The nuclei become multiplied and the protoplasm about them largely increased in amount. To these changes in the nerve-fibre, and especially in the medullary sheath, the name of Wallerian degeneration ^ has been applied. In regeneration the new fibres grow afresh from the axial fibres of the central end of the divided nerve-trunk (often more than one from each) ; and, penetrating into the peripheral end of the trunk, gTow along this as the axis-cylinders of the new nerves, becoming after a time surrounded with medullary substance and a nucleated sheath of Schwann (fig. 383, D). In warm-blooded animals the first degeneration-changes in the peripheral part of the nerve are seen twenty-four hours after section ; in cold-blooded animals they take much longer to develop.'^ The nuclei underneath the neurolemma are everywhere found hypertrophied, the neurolemma is distinctly visible, and proto- plasm is found to have accumulated at the expense of the medullary sheath, both in the immediate neighbourhood of the nuclei, at the nodes, and also at other points in the fibre. ’ Fifty hours after the section in the rabbit (but not till four days in the dog) the protoplasmic aggregations are found here and there altogether to interrupt the continuity of the medullary sheath, and they contain numerous ^ On the histogenesis of nerve-fibres and the formation of myelin, see Bardeen, Amer. Journ. Anat. ii. 1903. Gerini, Anat. Anz. 1908. 5 A. Waller, Phil. Trans. 1850. ^ See footnote, p. 252. Monckeberg and Bethe (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. liv. 1899) describe early changes in the fibrils of the axis-cylinder, both central and peripheral to the point of section. But the nerve-fibres retain their excitability (to artificial stimuli) and conduction for from two to five days after section (the period of retention of excitability varying with different kinds of nerve-fibre).