THE INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS.’ The organs which will be described under this head B,Te the thyroid gland and the parathyroids, the pituitary body or hypophysis, the suprarenal capsules or adrenals, the thymus, carotid and coccygeal glands, and certain small accumulations of cells resembling in some particulars of structure the suprarenal capsules, which, from their close relationship in development with the sympathetic ganglia—in this respect resembling the medulla of the suprarenal capsules—have been termed paraganglia (Kohn). All these organs resemble one another in being formed of epithelial cells which have a special relationship to blood-vessels or lymphatics : none possess a duct in adult life, although the thyroid, at an early stage of development, had such a struc- ture connecting it with the mouth, and the anterior part of the pituitary is developed in connexion with a tubular growth from the buccal ectoderm in a manner somewhat similar to the development of the externally secreting glands. Although these organs are for the sake of convenience grouped together under the head of internally secreting glands, it is not certainly known with regard to the thymus, the carotid gland, and the coccygeal gland that these organs yield an active internal secretion, and indeed the same may be said regarding the cortex of the suprarenal capsules and the anterior part of the pituitary. But the thymus is so inti- mately related in development to the thyroid and parathy- roids, and the cortex of the suprarenals so closely bound up into one organ with the medulla of these glands that it is difficult not to believe that there is some functional inter- relationship between them. We are probably justified in considering them all as belonging to the group of internally secreting organs, although, with regard to some, the actual experimental proof is still lacldng. THE THYROID. The thyroid gland lies in the neck on both sides of the larynx and upper end of the trachea (fig. 961). It consists of a right and left half or lobe, the two lobes being generally united in man by a narrow part or isthmus which crosses the front of the trachea. The gland is very abundantly supplied with blood, probably more so than any other organ in the body in proportion to its size, and is of a deep brownish-red colour during life : it is encapsuled by connective tissue, which also forms a framework of areolar and reticular tissue throughout the substance of the gland, binding together the proper glandular substance and imperfectly separating it into small lobules of irregular form and size.^ The thyroid takes origin partly from a median diverticulum of the pharyngeal entoderm, partly from lateral diverticula of the fourth visceral pouches (fig. 980). ^ An extensive bibliography dealing with both structure and functions of these organs will be found in the articles ‘ Innere Sekretion und Dritsen ohne Ausfiihrsgang ’ by Swale Vincent, in the Ergebnisse der Physiologie, 1910-11, and also in Biedl, ‘Innere Secretion, ihre jihysiol. Grundlage, u.s.w.,’ 1910. - See on the reticular tissue of the gland, J. M. Flint, Amer. Journ. Anat. iv. 1901. Fig. 961.— Sketch showing the FOKM AND POSITION OF THE THYROID BODY. (Allen Thom- son.) One half the natural size. The larynx and surrounding parts are viewed from before; on the right side the muscles cover- ing the thyroid body are retained, on the left side they are removed; th, right thyro-hyoid muscle; oh, omo-hyoid ; sh, sterno-hyoid ; st, sterno-thyroid; c, crico-thy- roid membrane ; tr, trachea ; oe, oesophagus; t, right lobe of the thyroid body; t', the left lobe ; i, the isthmus; It, the fibrous or muscular band termed levator thyroidete, which is more rai’ely found in the middle line or to the right side.