AFFERENT NERVE-ENDINGS IN MUSCLES 279 tendon-bundles, and collectively form a branched expansion which is not unlike that in which the sensory nerves to the muscles themselves end. The peculiar spindle-shaped thickening of the tendon which is thus provided with a rich nervous network is known as an organ of Golgi (figs. 441, 442). Various modifications of these have been described, but their fundamental structure appears to be the same in all vertebrates. A. S. Dogiel ‘ has shown that the nerve- endings in the organs of Golgi are fibrillar in structure, like those in the end-organs of the muscle itself. Sensory nerve-ending's in muscles: muscle-spindles. — In the voluntary muscles certain peculiar organs have long been known to occur amongst the ordinary fibres, consisting of a bundle of very fine cross-striated muscle-fibres enclosed in a loose capsule of connective tissue (see ac- companying Plate and figs. 443 to 445). To these organs the name ‘ muscle-spindle ^ was attached, but their real meaning was until comparatively recent years a subject of conjecture. The histological researches of various authors, and particularly of Ruffini,^ have however now completely elucidated the structure of the muscle-spindle. Eufiini showed that the nerves to the so-called ‘ intrafusal' muscle-fibres are not provided with the end-plates which are characteristic of motor-nerve endings, but terminate amongst the muscle-fibres of the spindle much in the same way that the nerve- fibres end between the tendon-bundles in the organs of Golgi. The positive proof that these nerve-fibres are afferent and not efiterent was provided by Sherrington, who cut the ventral roots of the nerves of one of the limbs (in cat and monkey) and found that the intrafusal nerve-fibres did not participate in the Wallerian degeneration which affected all the motor nerves of the limb-muscles. Muscle-spindles are, as their name im- plies, of a generally fusiform shape, larger ^ Arch. f. inikr. Anat. Ixvii. 190G. - Arch, ital.de biol.xviii. 1893. See also Sherrington, Journ. Physiol, xvii. 1894; Sihler, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvi. 189.5 ; Huber and de Witt, Journ. Comp. Neur. vii. 1898 ; J. Baum, Anat. Hefte, xiii. 1900; A. S. Dogiel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixviii. 1906. Fig. 443.—Nkrve-endings upon the intra- fusal MUSCLE-FIBRES OF A MUSCLE- SPINDLE OF THE RABBIT. Methylene- blue preparation. (Dogiel.) Moderately magnified. a, large medullated fibre coming off from ‘ spindle ’ nerve and passing to end in an annulo-spiral termination on and between the intrafusal fibres; h, a fine medullated fibre coming off from the same stem and dividing. Its branches, c, pass towards the ends of the muscle-fibres and terminate in a number of small localised arborisations, like end-plates.