CARTILAGE 140 constituting all that exists of the matrix at this time.^ Glycogen appears at an early period in the protoplasm of cartilage-cells. Rouget found it in the sheep’s embryo of two months, both in ossifying cartilage and in the cartilages of the trachea. The subsequent changes consist in enlargement and multiplication of the cells and development of the intermediate matrix from a substance which is formed around and between them. The process appears to be as follows (fig. 225): The cartilage-cells first divide, a species of capsule being formed round each of the young cells (b), whilst the old one enclosing them becomes blended with the inter- cellular matrix, and, after a time, is no longer traceable (c). The new cells, in turn, divide in the same way, so as to make a group of four, each of which is surrounded by its own capsule (d), whilst the capsules of the first descent (secondary) blend with the matrix (e) like their predecessor. The four cells may each form a succession of capsules and thus become more separated from one another, or they may divide again and form a group of eight or more. It is by reason of the cells remaining in contiguity with one another after the division is complete that the groups of corpuscles which are so characteristic of cartilage are produced. How the capsule is produced has been a subject of much discussion : whether excreted by the cell which it afterwards encloses, as held by Kolliker ; or formed A B c D E Fig. 225.—Plan or the multiplication op cells of caetilage. (Sharpey.) A, cell ill its capsule; B, divided into two, each with a capsule; C, primary capsule dis- appeared, secondary capsules coherent with matrix; D, tertiary division; E, secondary capsules disa^ipeared, tertiary coherent with matrix. by conversion of a superficial layer of the protoplasm of the cell-body, as was taught by Max Schultze. The problem is of the same nature as that involved in the forma- tion of the intercellular substance of connective tissue (p. 117) and of bone (p. 158). The probability is that the capsule is formed external to the cartilage-cell by a process of secretion. If it were produced by an immediate transformation of the protoplasm, we should find cells in which this transformation has only proceeded a certain way, but this is not the case. However formed, there is at first no matrix but what is made up of the simple capsules. In further growth there is a difference, according as the cells do or do not undergo frequent division. In the latter case a cell (or, it may be, a small cell- group) becomes surrounded by many concentric capsules formed in succession ; that is, the first capsule is expanded, and the others formed each within its expanding predecessor, so that .the cartilage comes to consist of scattered cells, each with a concentric system of capsules, which by means of reagents may be rendered visible in the neighbourhood of the cells, but farther off are inseparably blended into a uniform substance. When, on the other hand, the cells have a tendency to frequent subdivision, the new capsules are produced by the daughter-cells, and ’ Cartilages which retain this condition throughout life have been termed ‘ parenchymatous.’ An example of this is found in the cartilage of the mouse’s ear.