503 DEVELOPMENT the eleventh or twelfth week. The dental lamina, when thus separated from the labio-dental, forms a flat band of cells connected by one edge with the epithelium lining the mouth, whilst the other, or free edge, projects almost horizontally inwards in the substance of the embryonic jaw. Subsequently, however, as the milk-teeth develop, it takes a more vertical direction. Over the line of its attachment to the epithelium of the mouth there is a shallow furrow, the dental furroic (fig. 733, d.f.), which is at first rather outside (or on the labial side of) the most prominent part of the jaw, but gradually comes to lie further inwards. At about nine weeks (embryo of 25 mm.) the border of the dental lamina in each jaw begins to exhibit ten enlarge- ments corresjDonding in situation to the ten milk-teeth. At ten weeks (embryo of 32 mm.) these enlargements show a moulding on one of their surfaces (upper in the upper jaw and lower in the lower) (fig. 732, 2, p., p.'), and the adjacent mesoblast fits against this moulded surface Fig. 733.—Palatine (gingival) surface of the model which is shown from above in FIG. 732, 3. P, palate ; L, upper lip ; d.l.f., labio-dental furrow ; d.f., dental furrow. and becomes differentiated into the form of a papilla, which very early exhibits the shape of the crown of the future tooth, being simple in the incisors and multiple in the molars.' The papillte have all appeared by eleven and a-half weeks, and the enlargements of the dental lamina, which are now very evident, grow round and gradually invest the papillie at their sides also. The dentine and pulp of the milk-teeth are formed from these papillte, whilst the enlargements of the dental lamina form special dental germs for the milk-teeth and furnish their enamel. In the meantime the dental lamina has grown further inwards beyond these prominent special dental germs, which appear now as ten rounded masses of cells attached to the labial side of the flat common dental lamina ‘ like swallows’ nests built against a board ’ (fig. 732, 3) and the posterior part of the lamina extends backwards in the substance of the jaw a short distance behind the last of the special dental germs for the milk-teeth. This backward extension of the dental lamina is only attached indirectly to the buccal epithelium. At about seventeen weeks (embryo of 18 centimetres long) it shows another enlargement, -which is the special germ of the first permanent molar, and, in connexion with this enlargement, the corresponding ^ In the canines, however, tlie papilla is at first double, not single. It has been suggested that this is probably an indication of the originally iiremolar character of these teeth.