427 COMPOUND GLANDS or lociilations may grow out into irregular tubular alveoli (fig. 630) ; the gland is however still regarded as simple, since all the alveoli open into a single duct (Flemming). ‘ In the compound glands, the divisions of the secreting cavity may assume a tubular or a saccular form, and this leads to the distinction of these glands into ‘ tubular " and ‘ acinous " or ‘ racemose." The latter were so termed from the superficial resemblance which they bear, when examined with a lens, to a bunch of grapes. But it is found in many cases, when their subdivisions are unravelled, that the apparent saccules are merely dilatations in the course of somewhat irregularly branching tubules (fig. 631) ; such glands are hence named ‘ acino-tubular." tubulo - racemose," or ALVEOLI. The disuse of the term racemose or acinous, as applied to any of these glands, was advocated by Flemming on the ground that the terminal alveoh are not merely dilata- tions grouped around the endings of the ducts, but are distinctly long and tubular in character (fig. 632); he proposed accordingly to term them aU compound tubular glands. But since, as Chievitz has shown, the salivary and all other similar glands exhibit at an early condition of development a markedly saccaluted character, the ultimate alveoli, which may be tubular in character, being formed later as outgrowths of the saccules (whereas the tubular glands proper, such as the kidney, never exhibit this sacculated character), it appears desirable still to use a A B Fig. 632.—Part of a small mucous GLAND, SHOWING THE TUBULAR CHARACTER OF THE (Flemming.) a, alveoli; d, duct. Fig. 633.—Eeconstructed models of secreting glands. (Maziarski.) A, a small tubulo-racemose mucous gland from the epiglottis ; B, a small muco-serous gland, with ‘ crescents ’ (the dotted parts of the alveoli). term which recognises a morphological difference between the two classes of glands. And;, as will immediately be explained, later investigations have shown that a true racemose character is met with in many of the glands which Flemming proposed to term tubular. ^ Arch. f. Anat. 1888.