STRUCTURE OF NERVE-CENTRES 318 the crusta of the mid-brain and the white centre and cortex of the cerebral hemi- sphere. In their passage they give off many collaterals to the nuclei on either side and also receive additions from those nuclei. Both nuclei of the corpus striatum contain many small nerve-cells of Golgi’s second type, with their axons ending within the nuclei, and others of all sizes—some being large and with widely extended dendrons—of Golgi’s first type, with the axons passing out from the nuclei (fig. 494). Many of the nerve-cells contain a considerable amount of reddish- yellow pigment in man. The membranes of the brain are similar in general structure and arrangement to those of similar name of the spinal cord. The dura mater of the brain is, however, closely attached to Fig. 493.—Diagbam of the connexions of the thalamus wth the fibees of the SENSOEY TBACTS AND WITH THE COETEX CEBEBEI. (Cajal.) A, chief sensory nucleus ; B, C, accessory (semilunar) nuclei; D, posterior nucleus ; E, nucleus of zona incerta of hypothalamus; F, nucleus of mamillary body; G, fibres of upper fillet; c, their arborisation in the chief nucleus—collaterals are seen passing to the posterior nucleus; H, fibres of secondary or central tract of fifth nerve, passing to accessory nuclei and to zona incerta; I, fibres endmg in mamillary body; J, optic chiasma; K, outline of hippocampus; R, outline of anterior colliculus of corpora quadrigemina; S, fibres of optic tract; T, cells of cortex, sending axons, a, to end in ramifications, e, in chief nucleus of thalamus; b, axons of thalamus cells, d, passing to end in cortex cerebri; V, visual cortex ; /, afferent fibres passing from lateral geniculate body and thalamus and ending in visual cortex by arborisations in the stria of Gennari, g. The arrows indicate the course taken by nerve-impulses. the inner surface of the skull, and furnishes it with periosteum. It is split at certain places to contain large venous sinuses, which convey blood away from the brain, and it sends between the two hemispheres a strong vertical fibrous septum, the falx cerebri, whilst between the cere- brum and cerebellum a horizontal septum, the tentorium cerehelli, extends, which is attached in front to the back of the falx cerebri; and below the tentorium, projecting downwards from its posterior border, is another, smaller, vertical septum, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum—the falx cerehelli. The arachnoid membrane of the brain differs from that of the cord in being separated from the pia mater only in certain places. At these are considerable spaces, known as the cisternce arachnoidales ; so that in these situations the sub-arachnoid space is wide. But in other parts the arachnoid is closely applied to the pia mater, instead of to the dura mater as in the cord, and the subdural space is large. In other places it occupies an intermediate position. Between it and the pia mater are numerous connective-tissue trabeculae. In the neighbourhood of the