THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a long gland of a reddish cream colour and irregularly prismatic shape, which lies across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach. Its right end is the larger, and is termed the head ; from this arises a short and slightly constricted nech, which connects the head with the hody. The body passes to the left, its left extremity or tail touching the spleen, whilst the head is in close relationship and partly encircled by the duodenum, into which the duct of the gland opens. The principal excretory duct, called the 'pancreatic duct or canal of Wirsung, runs through the entire length of the gland from left to right, buried entirely in its substance. Commencing by the union of the small ducts derived from the groups of lobules composing the tail of the pancreas, and receiving in succession at various angles and from all sides the ducts from the body of the gland, the canal of Wirsung pursues a nearly straight course in the axis of the gland until it reaches the neck. Here it turns obliquely downwards, backwards, and to the right through the neck and head, gradually approaching the posterior surface of the latter. Near its termination it comes in contact with the left side of the common bile-duct, which it accompanies to the second part of the duodenum. As it traverses the head of the pancreas it is joined by numerous branches, one of which coming from the lower part of the head is larger than the others. The bile and pancreatic ducts, placed side by side, pass very obliquely through the muscular and areolar coats of the intestine, and terminate, on its internal surface, by a common orifice, situated near the junction of the second and third portions of the duodenum, between three and four inches below the pylorus. The pancreatic duct, with its branches, is readily distinguished within the glandular substance by the very white appearance of its thin fibrous walls. Its widest part, near the duodenum, is from 2 mm. to 2*5 mm. in diameter. It is lined by a remarkably thin and smooth membrane, which near the termination of the duct may show a few scattered crypt-like recesses. Occasionally the main duct gives off at the neck an accessory duct, which passes to the right and opens into the duodenum about an inch above the common opening of the bile and main pancreatic ducts. This accessory duct or' duct of Santorini is occasionally found of large size, evidently serving as the principal channel for the passage of the pancreatic secretion into the duodenum, the lower part of the duct of Wirsung being then small.' The variations of the pancreatic ducts are of interest in connexion with the mode of develop- ment of the pancreas. From the observations of Zimmermann ^ and 0. Hamburger * it appears that in the human subject the pancreas is formed from two distinct outgrowths from the wall of the duodenum. One of these, the smaller, is in close relation with the duodenal end of the common bile-duct; the other, situated nearer the pylorus, is much larger, and forms the greater part of the pancreas. About the sixth week of embryonic life the two processes join, and their contained ducts subsequently communicate with one another. The portion of the upper duct on the duodenal side of the j)oint of union grows less rapidly than the lower duct. It becomes the duct of Santorini, while the lower duct, with the peripheral portion of the upper one, forms the main channel for the pancreatic secretion, and is knoAvn as the main pancreatic duct, or canal of Wirsung. Structure.—The pancreas belongs to the class of tubulo-racernose glands. In its general characters it closely resembles the salivary glands, but it is somewhat softer in its texture than those organs, the lobes and lobules being less compactly arranged, and the connective tissue looser.'* ' See on the disposition of the ducts W. M. Baldwin, Anat. Kecord, v. 1911. Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesel. in Anat. Anz. iv. 1889. " Anat. Anz. vii. 1892. ‘ On the connective tissue of the pancreas see Piazza, Anat. Anz. xxxvi. 1910. On the general structure Hdcke, Inaug. Diss. Ziirich, 1907.