189 TITEOKIES OF MUSCLE-8TUUCTUKE moving cause of the transference of fluid ? As to this, several hypotheses have been put forward. An ingenious one is that of Engelmann,' who supposes tliat, in the development of heat in the doubly refraetmg material in the central part of the sareomere, its doubly refracting particles are able to undergo association with a greater quantity of water, which accordingly passes to them from the terminal parts of the sarcomere. This theory was subjected to criticism by A. Fick,- who urged that the amount of heat developed during muscle-contraction, even if it is confined to the doubly refracting material, which Fick doubts, is altogether inadequate to produce the effect ascribed to it. Another hypothesis supposes the cause of the movement of fluid to be an electrical change occurring at the contiguous surfaces of the singly and doubly refracting elements of the sarcomere. Such an electrical change would be accompanied by alterations in surface tension at the junction of these materials, which would lead to the passage of the isotropous fluid into or out of the anisotropous material of the sarcous element; ^ and with the porous structure which this is known in some muscles to possess, the extent of surface over which this change will occur must be relatively large. ‘ Lastly may be mentioned a hypothesis which has been brought forward by Macdonald, founded on the alterations which, as he believes, occur in the muscle in the relationship between protein molecules and electrolytes. This hypothesis rests upon what Macdonald believes to be the fact that ‘ the onset of contraction is marked by a new appearance of potassium salts in the central portion of each sarcomere, sufficient to account for a considerable difference in osmotic pressure.’ ^ A. B. Macallura had previously described the presence of potassium salts in considerable concentration in the anisotropous substance of the sarcomere (fig. 289). Macdonald believes that they only become separated out as the result of excitation. The electrical changes would then be the con- sequence of the transference of electrolytes, and the thermal change the result of a subsequent combustion process. Macdonald has used this hypothesis not only to explain the phenomena of muscular contraction, but also in explication of the appearance of striated structure generally, and brings forward evidence in favour of this view derived from the striations in the axis-cylinders of nerves which w'ere originally described by Frohmann (see p. 230).*’ that the sarcous element increases pari passu with the diminution of the isotropous fluid. But his results are not conclusive, for the magnification which he employed was insufficient for exact measurements, and the investigation of the question is much more difficult in the massed fibrils of the leg-muscles than in the easily isolable fibrils of the wing-muscles. It is also more than doubtful, for reasons which have been already given (p. 184', if the distinction between sarcous element and isotropous fluid can be made out with sufficient sharpness in living muscle. 1 Ueber den Ursprung der Muskelkraft, 1893. ^ Pfliiger’s Archiv, liii. 1893. ^ By a modification of Engelmann’s hypothesis it may be possible to connect such change of surface tension with a development of heat at the junction of the two materials. Another consideration in connexion with this subject is the precipitation and agglomeration of particles which is liable to occur in colloidal solutions. The occurrence of these changes in protoplasm and their association with its movements has already been referred to (p. 20). Such pliysico-chemical changes are regarded by J. Loeb (Pfliiger’s Archiv, Ixix. 1898; Ixxi. 1898; Ixxv. 1899; see also The Dynamics of Living- Matter, 1906) as a possible cause of contraction. Halliburton and Brodie found that the- contraction which is produced on gradually heating a muscle occurs in stages which correspond with the temperatures of coagulation of its principal protein constituents. ^ Theories of muscular contraction depending upon rapid changes in surface tension at the junctions- of dissimilar parts of the fibrils have been suggested by several authors. Amongst these may be mentioned d’Arsonval, Arch, de Physiol. 1889; J. Gad, Arch. f. Physiol. 1893 (Verhandl. d. BerL physiol. Gesellsch.) ; Verworn, Allgemeine Physiologic, 1895; Imbert, Arch, de Physiol. 1897: and J. Bernstein, Pfliiger’s Archiv, Ixxxv. 1901 and cx. 1905. For a consideration of a surface-tension theory which assumes the existence of a contact-difference between sarcous element and isotropous fluid (corre- sponding with spongioplasm and hyaloplasm of cell-protoplasm) and a discussion of the effect which would be produced by the dissociation of ion-proteids at the contact-surfaces within the sai-comere, the reader may consult the paper by T. B. Robertson in the Quart. Journ. Exper. Physiol, ii. 1909, which has been already referred to in connexion with amoeboid movement and ciliary action, and in which it is shown that a similar principle probably underlies all muscular and protoplasmic movement. Cf. also on this question Schafer, Proc. Roy. Soc. xlix. p. 193, 1891, ‘ On the structure of amoeboid YJrotoplasm with a comparison between the nature of the contractile i)rocess in amoeboid cells and in muscular tissue.’ ’ Journ. of Physiol. 1905, xxxii. p. 1. ® For a detailed discussion of the subject, the reader is referred to the iDaper by Macdonald in the Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology, 1909, vol. ii. pp. 5-89. See also Proc. Roy. Soc. 1905, Vol. B. 76, p. 343. m Fig. 289. — Distbibution of POTASSIUM SALTS IN WING- FiBBiLS OF Dytiscus. (Mac* allum.) a, fibrils in condition of exten- sion ; b, fibrils in condition of contraction.