547 GLANDS 01< SMALL INTESTINE the epitheliuni-cells of the glands are columnar, with characteristic striated border: these may perhaps be concerned with absorption, like those which cover the villi. This supposition does not positively exclude their participation in the production of the succus entericus ; indeed within the crypts of Lieberkiihn absorption would only be ,possible on the assumption that the fluid products of digestion pass into the crypts. Scattered about amongst the columnar cells are goblet-cells (fig. 797), which are, of course, mucus-secreting : they are far more numerous in the crypts of the large than in those of the small intestine. Outside the epi- thelium is the basement-membrane, which has been already noticed : it does not exhibit nuclei, although from the appearance of silver-nitrate preparations it has been described as composed of endothelial cells. Between the basement-membrane and the epithelium-cells of the gland and also here and there between these cells, Fig. 797. — A crypt of Lieberkuhn from the HUMAN INTESTINE. (Flemming.) Fig. 798.—Section through the commencement of the DUODENUM AT THE PYLORUS. (Klein.) V, villi; 6, apex of a lymphoid nodule; c, crypts of Lieber- kuhn ; m, muscularis mucosas; s, secreting tubes of Brunner’s glands; r7, ducts of pyloric glands of stomach; g, tubes of these glands cut across in mucous ihembrane; t, deeper-lying tubes situated in submucous tissue, and corresponding with Brunner’s glands of the intestine. leucocytes are frequently found, especially in glands of those parts of the mucous membrane which lie over and adjacent to Beyer’s patches and solitary lymph-nodules. It occasionally happens that the intestinal crypts are cleft, thus exhibiting a tendency to become compound. They vary in length from 0’2 to 0‘3 mm. in man : they are longest in the duodenum. Brunner’s g-lands are small compound tubulo-racemose glands, which are found in the duodenum (fig. 796) ; they are most numerous at the upper end, occupying thickly a space extending from one to two inches beyond the pylorus. A few are said also to be found quite at the commencement of the jejunum. They are imbedded in the submucous coat (sometimes extending partly into the mucous membrane between the crypts of Lieberkuhn), and may be exposed by dissecting ofi the muscular coat from the outside of the intestine. In structure they somewhat resemble the small glands found in various parts of the lining N N 2