375 DEVELOPMENT OF ERYTHROCYTES IN THE EMBRYO but in the rabbit-embryo of thirteen or fourteen days (Maximow) they are accom- panied by primitive disc-shaped erythrocytes which are said to differ in certain particulars of size, amount of hfemogiobin, &c., from the definitive red discs. Whether this is so or not, they are formed from the primitive erythroblasts in the same way as the definitive erythrocytes from their erythroblasts, viz. by loss of the nucleus and moulding of the corpuscle into the discoid shape. Later, erythroblasts of large size {megalohlasts,^g. 568, a, a') and others which are smaller {normoblasts,!), h'), and are formed from the megaloblasts by division, make their appearance. The megaloblasts are developed from the primitive blood-cells or haemoblasts. From the normoblasts, by atrophy or extrusion of their nuclei, definitive erythrocytes like those of the adult are produced. Having once appeared, these rapidly increase in number, and soon form the bulk of the red corpuscles. Before the end of intra-uterine life Fig. 567.—Development of blood-corpuscles in vascular area of rabbit. (Maximow.) in, in’, in", mesenchyme-cells (one shown in mitosis) ; en, endothelial cells; v, cavity of developing vessel; I, I, lymphoblasts ; c, c, primitive erythroblasts; c', a primitive erythroblast in mitosis. The cells described as lymphoblasts by Maximow in this and the succeeding figures are probably heemoblasts. erythroblasts have generally vanished from the blood and are restricted to the bone-marrow, as in the adult. According to Griineberg,^ in the foetus up to the seventh month there are still many erythroblasts (normoblasts) in the circulating blood, and karyokinetic figures are common within them. After the eighth month erythroblasts are rarely seen except in the blood-vessels of bone-marrow. Prior to the seventh month leuco- cytes are relatively abundant, and still consist mainly of lymphocytes. During the seventh month polymorph and granular leucocytes appear, and the former soon become numerous. After the blood-vessels with their contained blood-corpuscles are once formed, they become extended by sprouts from the pre-existing capillaries. The sprouts are at first composed throughout of protoplasm, except that they may contain nuclei in process of karyokinesis. They become hollowed out by an extension into them of the lumen of the capillary from which they spring. ^ Medic, naturwiss. Arch. i. 1908.