393 CORPUSCLES OF LYMPH AND CHYLE the function of the blood-platelets has led to the name of thrombocytes being applied to them. It is believed that they contain prothrombin, which under the i^uence of the soluble lime-salts of the plasma becomes transformed into fibrin-ferment or thrombin, and it is probably on this account that fibrin-filaments are generally seen starting from the clumps of blood-platelets in a microscopic preparation of blood which has undergone coagulation (fig. 589). The thrombocytes of oviparous vertebrata are very different in appearance from those of mammals. They take the form of colourless elongated corpuscles smaller than the erythro- cytes and less numerous in proportion to these than are the thrombocytes of mammalian blood. They contain a distinct elliptical nucleus, and must certainly be regarded as cells : some authors have indeed been disposed to look upon them as representing a stage in the development of the nucleatederythroblast. But the observations of Hayem‘ and Moves- render it probable that these bodies fulfil the same functions as the thrombocytes of mammalian blood. Like the latter they undergo rapid changes (fig. 591) when the blood is drawn or when it comes in contact with an injured or foreign surface. The corpuscle itself, as well as its nucleus, becomes spheroidal and rapidly throws out bleb-like processes which extend some distance from the body of the throm- bocyte. K two or more of these cells come in contact they adhere closely, and when there are many together they form a mass of cells,' which, if accumulating at an injured spot in a vessel, may easily help to form a plug and impede the escape of the ordinary corpuscles. Presently bundles of fibrin-filaments may be seen in a microscopic preparation extending from the elumps Fig. 591.— A. blood-platelet of salamander, and the changes which it UNDERWENT IMMEDIATELY AFTER WITHDRAWAL OF BLOOD FROM THE VESSELS. (F. Meves.) of thrombocytes and passing between the clumps : these filaments adhere to erythrocytes which happen to be within their course; they appear to shrink later and thus to exert a pull upon the entangled erythrocytes (fig, 592) a pecuhar rosetted appearance, being given to the groups of blood-corpuscles which are thus dragged upon (fig. 590). As with the mammalian thrombocytes, these seem thus to serve as centres for the deposition of fibrin, threads of which radiate in all directions from the metamorphosed thrombocytes.^ Nothing is positively known as to the origin of the blood-platelets, nor has it yet been exactly ascertained when they first make their appearance in the blood of the developing animal. CORPUSCLES OF THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. The corpuscles which are met with in lymph and chyle vary greatly in number. They consist almost entirely of the smaller lymphocytes, although there are a few somewhat larger,"^ with an occasional polymorph or oxyphil leucocyte. The lymphocytes are doubtless derived from the lymph-glands through which the Hayem, op. cit. - Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixviii. 1906. For various other observations upon the blood-platelets and the changes which they undergo after the blood is drawn see Deetjen, Zentr. f. Physiol, xxiii. 1909, and Zeitschr. f. physiol. Chem. Ixiii. 1909. An article in Science Progress, 1906, by Buckmaster, contains information regarding them up to that date. See on the part played by thrombocytes in the arrest of heemorrhage, Pringle and Tait Proc. Physiol. Soc., June 18 and July 9, 1910, in Journ. Physiol, xl. ^ B. F. Davis and A. J. Carlson, Amer. Jourii. Physiol, xxv. 1909.