465 HAIRS selves, and a tangential section through the deeper part of the integument shows them more evenly scattered ; the follicles therefore converge somewhat towards the surface. Except those of the eyelashes, which are implanted perpendicularly to the surface, the follicles slant, the direction of slant being constant in the same parts. In the negro the hair-follicles have been found to be curved, so that the papilla may look in a direction parallel to or even away from the surface of the skin (Stewart). Pinkus ' has pointed out that the skin undergoes a curious modification in the neighbourhood of the hair-groups (fig. G76). On the side towards which these slope there is a disc-like patch of cutis, the papillae of which are enlarged (hair-disc, fig. 676, d) ; the epidermis is thickened over this, and receives an unusually large number of nerve-fibres (ri). On the opposite side of the hair-group the surface of the cutis over a small area is flat, and is .km Fig. 67G.—Diagrammatic section op a hair-area of cynocephalus, made from a RECONSTRUCTION. (F. PinkuS.) a and h, two (club) hairs out of a group of four; p, new hair-rudiment; arrector muscle; d, hair-disc; w, nerve-fibres passing to hair-disc; sc, thickened scale-like portion of epidermis; fjl, sweat-gland. covered by a scale-like thickened epidermis (sc), which Pinkus believes to be the homologue of the reptilian scale.^ The slope of the hairs takes different directions in different regions of the skin. Along certain lines the hairs incline away from one another ; these lines have a spiral arrangement, so that the hairs appear to diverge in whorls. The whorls are definitely and symmetrically placed ; all being paired except that on the vertex. There are also secondary lines of divergence between the whorls. The whole constitutes a general hair-pattern over the surface, which is generally well seen in the lanugo of the foetus, and in some individuals can be recognised throughout life.^ ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixv. 1904. ' This was originally a suggestion of Weber based on the mode of arrangement of the hairs. See also Stcihr, Anat. Anz. xxx. 1907 (Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesel.) ^ On the hair-slope in man see W. Kidd, Journ. of Anat. xxxv. 1901 ; also v. Brunu, op. cit. VOL. II. PART I. H H