336 BLOOD-VESSELS aorta an exceedingly intricate arrangement of the muscle-fibres in vortices. Where the tunica media passes over into the tunica adventitia a number of longitudinal muscle-fibres belonging to the middle coat are also always seen in the aorta, but they are never so abmidant as to form a definite layer. External coat.—As in the smaller arteries, so in the very large ones we find, next the tunica media, a layer of elastic fibres running longitudinally and kept together by a few strands of white fibrous tissue ; but in addition to this internal layer there appears an external one in which the elastic fibres run circularly. In large and middle-sized arteries the bundles of white connective tissue chiefly run diagonally or obliquely round the vessel, and their interlacement becomes much more open and lax towards the surface of the artery, where they connect the vessel with its sheath or with other surrounding parts. Longitudinally arranged contractile fibre-cells have been described by various observers in the external coat of some arteries {e.g. the iliacs, superior mesenteric, splenic, renal, dorsalis penis, and the umbilical arteries of the foetus). In the umbilical arteries (Eberth) a complete layer of longitudinal muscular fibres is also present in the middle coat, internal to the ordinary circular fibres; these peculiarities are more fully alluded to later. Some arteries have much thinner coats than the rest, in proportion to their calibre. This is strikingly the case with those contained within the cavity of the cranium, and in the vertebral canal; the difference depends on the external and middle coats, which in the vessels referred to are thinner than elsewhere. The pulmonary arteries have also much thinner coats than those of the aortic system. Changes in vessels during development and with advancing age.—The aorta undergoes during development the following changes:—At the end of the third month, in addition to the endothelium, a media is seen with irregular nuclei, and an adventitia, which is four to five times thicker than the media, and with the nuclei arranged longitudinally. At the commencement of the fourth month a membranous internal elastic lamina is distinct. During the fourth month the media grows rapidly and is broken up into lamellae by about ten elastic laminae, which communicate with one another by numerous offsets. In a somewhat older embryo, measuring 10 cm. from vertex to coccyx, the first traces of the white fibrous tissue of the internal coat appear. During the twentieth to the twenty-fourth week no elastic fibres are yet developed in the adventitia, but they appear during the seventh month. At birth about forty elastic laminae are seen in the middle coat, and all of these are connected by longitudinal and oblique fibres. The changes which the different coats of the aorta undergo during extra-uterine existence are given in the accompanying table, in which the numbers indicate the thickness of the coats in micromillimetres. Age Intima Media Adventitia New-born ..... 0 650 1485 10-year boy .... 54 856 688 35-year man .... 124 996 — 50-year man .... 181 1075 — 70-year woman .... 190 nil The first increase in the intima is due to the development of white fibrous tissue, the second to the deposit of elastic fibres. It will be seen from the table that the intima increases relatively more than the media. With advancing age all vessels lose some of their elasticity owing to conversion of their elastin into a non-elastic substance, elacin. A vessel thus altered would have a tendency to become wider under the continued blood-pressure. In this wav the