THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES 116 The penetrating areolar tissue of tendons, like the same tissue elsewhere, possesses areolae, which here take the form of elongated clefts, and these may also partly serve for the passage of lymph. All tendons and ligaments, and fibrous membranes, possess nerve-fibres, which course for the most part in a direction parallel with the fasciculi and terminate in a special manner within these tissues, as will be noticed when the peripheral distribution of nerves is described. As to elastic tissue, the yellow ligaments, which contain this in its purest form, are but scantily supplied with blood-vessels, those that are present running in the interstitial areolar tissue between the elastic bundles. The lymphatic vessels also course for the most part longitudinally in the interstitial areolar tissue, being con- nected here and there by transverse branches, and in addition to these vessels the lymph may be conveyed by means of the elongated areolae of the same tissue. Neither blood-vessels nor lymphatic vessels actually penetrate into the small bundles of elastic fibres, although the lymphatic vessels often lie close against the surface of the bundles. The mode of distribution of nerves in this tissue is unknown. DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Those parts of the early embryo in which connective tissue is subsequently to be developed are at first composed entirely of embryonic cells, to all appearance similar to the cells which constitute the mesoderm generally (fig. 190). To the cells which form the connective tissues the name mesenchyme cells was applied by R. and 0. Hertwig (see p. 4). Mesenchyme cells are at first rounded in shape, and loosely packed; they may exhibit amoeboid move- ments when examined on the warm stage. Subsequently they become irregularly ramified and tend to unite with one another to form a kind of cell-network or syncytium with open interstices (fig. 191). These interstices are at first occupied by an albuminous fluid which later acquires a mucous or muco-albmninous character, and the tissue assumes a jelly-like consistency : the interstitial substance may now be spoken of as the ground-substance or matrix. In this ground-substance fibres of the two kinds, white and elastic, become developed, but the manner in which they are formed is by no means clear ; and two distinct and opposed views are held by histologists upon the subject.^ According to the first view, which has been maintained by ^ These views are set forth at length and the literature and history of the subject are dealt with by Rbthig, Ergebn. d. Anat. xvii. 1907. Ruthig deals mainly with the elastic fibres, but it is usually held that the method of development is the same for both kinds of fibre. Fig. 190.—Mesoderm cells prior to the develop- ment OF connective-tissue fibres between THEM. (Maximow.) From an early rabbit-embryo. m, m, ordinary mesenchyme cells; m', a cell dividing by karyokinesis; I, a primitive blood- cell.