URETHRA 007 beset with small mucous tubules, and is lined by columnar epithelium, except near its orifice, where the epithelium is stratified. The wall of the duct contains plain muscular fibres.' Other much smaller glands yielding a similar mucous secretion send their ducts to open at the vestibule near the orifice of the vagina (glandulee vestibulares minores). The clitoris corresponds to the penis in the male, but is not penetrated by the urethra, and is far less developed. It has structures corresponding with the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum glandis. Its integument, provided with vascular papillse, is likewise richly fur- nished with nerves, ending in end-bulbs, and in tactile and Pacinian corpuscles. The bulb of the urethra of the male is represented in the female by two oval masses of erectile tissue, the hulbi vestibiili, which lie in the lateral walls of the vestibule; each is continued in front into a venous plexus which joins the erectile tissue of the glans clitoridis. The scrotum of the male is represented in the female by the labia majora, which are folds of integument containing much fat and a tissue resembling the dartos in the male. Their outer surfaces are covered with hair, the inner being smooth and hairless : they contain numerous sebaceous and sweat glands. Within and between the labia majora are two much thinner integumental folds, the labia minora; these have the characters of mucous membrane, being moist, red and destitute of hairs. THE URETHRA IN THE FEMALE. Tlie female urethra compared with that of the male is a short and wide tube. Its wall is composed of two layers, the muscular and mucous coats respectively. The mucous membrane is whitish, except near the orifice ; it is raised into longitudinal folds, which are not entirely obliterated by distension, especially one which is particularly marked on the lower or posterior surface of the urethra. Near the bkdder the membrane is soft, with many tubular mucous glands, which may contain concrements like those of the prostate in the male. Lower down these increase in size and lie in groups between the longitudinal folds. Immediately within and around the urethral orifice are several larger and wider crypts (para-urethral ducts). The lining membrane is covered with a stratified scaly epithelium, but near the bladder it becomes transitional. The submucous tissue contains plain muscle-fibres, arranged longitudinally near the inner and circularly near the outer part; amongst the muscle-bundles are numerous white and elastic fibres. Between the meshes of this tissue is a highly vascular structure, in which are many large veins ; this is sometimes spoken of as a cor'pus spongiosum ureihroe. Outside this layer are striated fibres, which do not, however, form a complete stratum; they are best developed, as a circular layer, near the bladder and near the external urethral orifice, while longitudinal fibres occur most numerously in the upper part of the posterior urethral wall. Between the layers of the triangular ligament the female urethra is embraced by the fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle. The blood-vessels and nerves of the female urethra are very numerous, and are derived from the same sources as those of the vagina. The lymphatics pass into those of the bladder. See on the structure of Bartholin’s glands, V. Miiller, Arch, f, mikr. Anat. xxxix. 1892; Rautmann Arch, f. mikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1904.