MUCOUS MEMBKANES. These membranes, unlike the serous, line passages and cavities which communi- cate with the exterior, as well as recesses, ducts, and receptacles of secretion, which open into such passages. They are habitually subject either to the contact of foreign substances introduced into the body, such as air and aliment, or of various secreted or excreted matters, and their surface is coated over and protected by mucus, a fluid of a more consistent and tenacious character than that which moistens the serous membranes. The mucous membranes of several difierent or even distant parts are continuous, and they may nearly all be reduced to two great divisions, namely, the ventro-'pulrmnary and genito-urinary. The former covers the inside of the alimentary and air-passages as well as the less considerable cavities communicating with them. It may be described as commencing at the edges of the lips and nostrils, where it is continuous with the skin, and proceeding through the nose and mouth to the throat, whence it is continued throughout the whole length of the ahmentary canal to the termination of the intestine at the anus, there again meeting the skin ; and also along the windpipe and its numerous divisions as far as the air-cells of the lungs. From the nose the membrane is prolonged into the lacrymal passages, extending up the nasal duct into the lacrymal sac and along the lacrymal canals until, under the name of the conjunctival membrane, it spreads over the fore part of the eyeball and inside of the eyelids, on the edges of which it meets with the skin. Other offsets from the nasal part of the membrane line the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal and maxillary sinuses, and from the upper part of the pharynx a prolongation extends on each side along the Eustachian tube to line that passage and the tym- panum of the ear. Besides these there are offsets from the alimentary membrane to line the salivary, pancreatic, and biliary ducts, and the gall-bladder. The genito-urinary membrane invests the inside of the urinary bladder and the whole tract of the urine in both sexes, from the interior of the kidneys to the orifice of the urethra, also the seminal ducts and vesicles in the male, and the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes in the female. By one surface the mucous membranes are attached to the parts which they line or cover, by means of areolar tissue, named ‘ submucous," which differs greatly in quantity as well as in consistency in different parts. The connexion is in some cases close and Arm, as in the cavity of the nose and its adjoining sinuses ; in other instances, especially in cavities subject to frequent variation in capacity, like the gullet and stomach, it is lax and allows some degree of shifting of the connected surfaces. In such cases as the last-mentioned, the mucous membrane is accordingly thrown into folds when the cavity is narrowed by contraction of the exterior coats of the organ, and of course these folds, or rugce as they are named, are effaced by distension. But in certain parts the mucous membrane forms permanent folds, not capable of being thus effaced, which project conspicuously into the cavity which it lines. The best-marked example of these is presented by the valvulce conniventes seen in the small intestine. These, as is more fully described in the special anatomy of the intestines, are crescent-shaped duplicatures of the membrane, with connecting areolar tissue between their laminae, which are placed transversely and follow one another at very short intervals along a great part of the intestinal tract. The chief use of the valvulae conniventes is doubtless to increase the surface of the absorbing mucous membrane within the cavitv. %/ In most situations the mucous membranes after death are nearly opaque or only slightly translucent. They possess no great degree of tenacity and but little elas- ticity, and hence are readily torn by a moderate force. The red or pink colour which they exhibit during life, and may retain in greater or less degree in various parts after death, is due to the blood contained in their vessels. The degree of redness is greater in the foetus and infant than in the adult. It is greater too in certain situations ; thus, of the different parts of the alimentary canal, it is most marked in the stomach, pharynx, and rectum.