303 roNs structure to the nucleus ambiguus of the medulla oblongata which gives origin to part of the ninth and tenth. The fibres which arise from these nuclei are similar in their course, for they all pass from the nucleus towards the grey matter of the floor of the ventricle near the middle line, then run upwards in this for a short distance, and finally bend round and pass in a lateral and ventral direction to emerge at the side of the pons or bulb. The afferent fibres of the facial (pars intermedia) pass into the uppermost end of the solitary bundle (see p. 301), and terminate by arborescence amongst the cells of its attached grey matter. Lastly, the fibres of the eighth nerve enter the nerve-centre just at the junction of the medulla oblongata and pons in two divisions, vestibular and cochlear. The vestibular division enters mesial to the inferior cerebellar peduncle, its fibres lose themselves partly in a mass of small-celled grey matter, the main vestibular nucleus, partly in a descending nucleus continuous with the main nucleus, which Substantia ferruginea Superior cerebellar peduncles tor nucleus -- of Mh Tegmentum — •ntral tract - Dorsal long. bundle - Raphe Transverse fibres of pons I Fillet Fig. 473.—Section fkom the middle of the pons showing the paet adjacent to the FOURTH VENTRICLE. Photograph. (Schafer.) receives fibres from descending bundles of the nerve, and partly in certain large- celled nuclei {nucleus of Deiters and nucleus of Bechterew), which lie just below the grey matter of the floor of the ventricle: other fibres pass into the cerebellum. The cochlear division passes partly laterally to the inferior cerebellar peduncle, turning round it to end in a prominence of grey matter {acoustic tubercle, dorsal nucleus), which overlies it and extends to the floor of the ventricle ; partly into a nucleus immediately ventral to the peduncle {ventral or accessory nucleus). From the cells of these nuclei fibres arise which form a tract known as the trapezium, passing transversely across the raphe to the opposite side, behind the longitudinal pyramid bundles. Its fibres are there connected with various nuclei {superior olivary, trapezoid, nucleus of lateral fillet), a description of which will be found in the part of this work devoted to Neurology. From these nuclei fibres are con- tinued upwards towards the mid-brain (posterior corpora quadrigemina), forming the lateral fillet or fillet of Reil, which is visible at the side of the mid-brain.