273 A FF1^: H F NT Nl<] R E-E NI) I NO S versely, aud through the middle of which the axis-cylinder passes, sometimes uubranched, sometimes branching once or twice. Each branch ends in an enlarge- ment. The capsule is composed of an.outer layer of longitudinal fibres, and an inner layer of strongly marked fibres of a brownish colour, running transversely or circularly. They most nearly resemble the innermost part of the Pacinian corpuscles—i.e. the core and the innermost lamella. Certain corpuscles which are found in the bill of some water-birds exhibit so obviously a transition between the simple corpuscles of Herbst and the complex corpuscles of Pacini immediatel}^- to be described, that they may be especially mentioned here. These, which are sometimes named the corpuscles of Key and Retzius (fig. 429), difiter from the corpuscles of Herbst in having a capsule composed of a large number of closely arranged lamellae, similar to those of the inner or denser part of the Pacinian corpuscle, outside which is a single strong layer of longitu- dinally disposed fibrous tissue. The inner lamellae are largely composed of circular or transverse fibres, but these lack the brownish tint of the fibres of the inner lamella of the Herbst corpuscle, nor do they exhibit the intra-lamellar fluid which is characteristic of most of the lamellae of the Pacinian corpuscle. Other modes of ending* of afferent nerves.—Instead of ending in the special terminal corpuscles of different kinds which have been described in the pre- ceding pages, many afferent nerves, as before stated, terminate in the form of fine ramifications of the axis-cylinder, which pass between the elements of the tissue- to which the nerves are distributed. As they approach their termination the nerve-fibres, which are medullated, divide dichotomously again and again, retaining after all the earlier divisions both the medullary sheath and the neurolemma, and being accompanied by a pro- longation of the sheath of Henle. Lower down this last- named sheath becomes lost, and a short distance farther on the medullary sheath and eventually also the neuro- lemma also disappear, the nerves being continued as axis-cylinders only ; these can distinctly be seen in prepara- tions stained with chloride of gold to be made up of fine varicose fibrils (fig. 430). At every division of the nerve some of these fibrils pass into each branch, and where, as often happens, the branches unite with one another to form a subterminal plexus, some of the fibrils pass across from one branch to another. By the time the terminal ramification is reached many of the branches may consist of ultimate fibrils (fig. 431). Whether these unite with one another so as to form an actual network is still doubtful. Fig. 430.—Distribution op nerves in a portion of the CORNEA OF THE RABBIT. (Rauvier.) The nerves are stained with chloride of gold, p, larger plexus of non-inedullated fibi’es, made up of numerous fine fibrils; a, a, smaller fibres derived from them, and them- selves giving off still smaller branches; 7/-, varicose fibrils f, junctional branches of the larger plexus. A ‘ nervous network ’ is not to be confounded with a ‘ nervous plexus.’ In the former an actual fusion of the fibres which result from repeated division of the nerves is assumed to take place, whereas in the latter, although there may appear to be an intimate union VOL. II. PART I. T