665 VAGINA uterine Avail they divide into branches which penetrate the muscular tissue of the mucous membrane, supplying it with capillaries. They then pass towards the inner portion of the membrane and open into a network of large capillaries which pervades the tissue in that situation, being especially developed near the surface and around the glands. In the cervix, however, and especially in the vaginal portion, the arteries, which in this situation possess walls of considerable thiclmess, after entering the mucous membrane, divide into a number of small branches which pass directly towards the surface and open into the capillary network there present; from this network loops pass into the papillae. The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are very large, and form plexuses of sinus-like vessels with thin walls in immediate contact with the stroma of the mucous membrane. The lym- phatics commence, according to Leopold,^ as cleft-like spaces in the mucous mem- brane ; there are also well-marked lymphatic vessels extending as a plexus through the AAdiole thickness of the membrane (Hoggan).^ These open into plexuses of vessels in the muscularis mucosae and muscular coat proper ; and these again are in communication with valved vessels beneath and in the serous covering. The nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexus, the spermatic plexuses, and the third and fourth sacral nerves. They consist of both medullated and non-medullated fibres; in the lower animals small ganglia connected with the non-medullated fibres have been observed in the submucous tissue (De la Torre). THE VAGINA. The wall of the vagina is composed from within outwards of a mucous membrane, a muscular and a fibrous coat (fig. 960). It is thickest in front, in the vicinity of the urethra, which indeed may be said to be imbedded in it. The vagina is firmly connected by areolar tissue to the neck of the bladder, and loosely to the rectum and levatores ani muscles ; at the upper end, for about a fourth part of its length, its posterior surface receives a covering from the peritoneum, which descends thus far in the form of a cul-de-sac between the vagina and the rectum. Round the tube is found a layer of loose erectile tissue most marked towards the Arulva. Externally the vagina is formed by a coat of dense areolar tissue. Beneath this its walls are composed of unstriped muscle, not distinctly separable into strata, but composed chiefly of fibres having a longitudinal direction. They are continuous above with those of the uterus. At its lower end the vagina is embraced by striated muscular fibres, which constitute the sphincter vagincB. On the inner surface of the vagina, anteriorly and posteriorly, a slightly elevated ridge extends from the lower end upwards in the middle line; the tAvo form the columns of the vagina, or columnce rugarum. Numerous dentated transverse ridges {rugce) are also observed, particularly in persons who have not borne children, running at right angles from the columns. These columns and rugae are most evident near the entrance of the vagina and on the anterior surface ; they gradually become less marked, and disappear towards the upper end. The mucous membrane, besides the columns and rugae, has vascular microscopic papillae, projecting into a stratified scaly epithelium, but the papillae are rclatiAT-ely low and few in number. The vagina is stated to be unprovided Avith mucous glands, the mucus met with in it being derived from the uterus. Vessels and nerves.—The vagina is richly supplied Avith vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from branches of the internal iliac, viz. the vaginal, internal, pudic, vesical, and uterine. The veins correspond, but they first surround the ^ Arch. f. Gynak. vi. 1874. ^ Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xvi. 1881.