G12 TESTICLE capsule is^ known as the tunica albuginea; it is covered by a layer of flattened epithelium-cells—cubical or columnar in the foetus—the remains of the germinal epithelium. Outside this is a serous cavity originally continuous with the peritoneal cavity and bounded externally by a serous layer, the tunica vaginalis. The tunica albuginea is mainly formed of a fibrous layer containing many elastic fibres and some plain muscle-fibres. It has relatively few blood-vessels in its substance, but on its inner surface is a layer of loose, highly vascular connective tissue, sometimes known as the tunica vasculosa testis (Astley Cooper), which extends over the septula and serves to distribute the blood-vessels to the lobules. Outside the fibrous layer and immediately under the epithelium is a looser connective-tissue layer, thinner than the main substance and containing but few elastic fibres; the two strata are only imperfectly separated in the adult. d v.e. Fig. 889.—Plan of a vebtical sec- tion OF THE TESTICLE, SHO\\TNG THE AKRANGEMENT OF THE DUCTS. The true length and diameter of the ducts have been disregarded, a, a, tubuli seminiferi coiled up in the separate lobes ; 6, vasa recta ; c, rete; d, vasa efferentia ending in the coni vasculosi; e, f, g, convoluted canal of the epididymis; h, A^as deferens ; i, i, section of the back part of the tunica albuginea with fibrous processes run- ning between the lobes. Fig. 888.—Transverse section of testicle and EPIDIDYMIS, MAN. (Eberth.) a, tunica albuginea; s.t., seminiferous tubules; s, tra- beculae dividing the gland into lobules; v, tunica vagi- nalis; cavity of tunica vaginalis ; ?«, mediastinum testis; e, epididymis ; e', caput epididymis ; v, A^as deferens (its con- volutions have been cut four times); v.e., vasa efferentia. At the posterior border for about a third of its extent the capsule is con- tinuous with a mass of fibrous tissue which extends into the interior of the organ, and is known as the mediastinum testis or eorpus HigJimori. This is joined by the septa above mentioned, which converge to it from the capsule. Sections of the mediastinum testis display a network of small tubules—rete testis—into which open the straightened out and narrowed continuations of the seminiferous tubules, known as the straight tubules (fig. 898). From the opposite side of the rete testis, at its upper and posterior aspect, there emerge a certain number (12 to 20) of efferent tubules about -5 mm. in diameter, which are at first less and afterwards more and more convoluted, and also increase somewhat in diameter as they proceed. These tubules thus form masses of gradually increasing size, the so-called coni vasculosi. These unite to form the beginning of a very long and extremely convo- luted duct of considerable size—the duct or tube of the epididymis (figs. 889,890,891).