650 OVAKY the bird’s egg, the albumen. But in the mammal this structure has not the nutritive import- ance to the embryo which is possessed by the corresponding formation in the bird, and it disappears during the passage of the ovum down the Fallopian tube. Formation of the G-raafian follicles.—The ovary is formed, as already stated (see also Vol. I.), by a proliferation and ingrowth of tlie germinal epithelium, whilst at the same time the vascular stroma grows out between the epithelial strands (fig. 944) so as to isolate these in the form of the egg-tubes of Pfliiger already mentioned. These egg-tubes consist of cylindrical or irregular columns of germinal epithelium-cells (fig. 945) which communicate with one another, and at first also with the surface, but ultimately become broken up by growths of stroma tissue into smaller and smaller portions, which now appear in the form of islands or nests of epithelium in the substance of the stroma.^ Both the egg-tubes and the islands produced from them contain amongst the ordinary small germinal epithelium-cells a much smaller number of larger spherical cells each with a large nucleus and distinct nucleolus : these are the Fig. 946.—Latek stage in the fobmation of Graafian follicles. (Felix and Biihler.) Some of the primitive ova are considerably enlarged and sm-rounded by other germinal epithelium-cells, forming primitive Graafian follicles. 'primitive ova (fig. 946). Ultimately the subdivision of the islets and cell-columns proceeds to such an extent that each is reduced to one or two, occasionally more, primitive ova surrounded by a simple layer of germinal epithelium, the cells of which are cubical (fig. 947) or flattened (fig. 948) in shape. These small islets form the primitive Graafian follicles, which are accumulated in great numbers in the more superficial parts of the ovary of the child and young animals, and are in some animals found in this situation throughout the greater part of life (figs. 934 and 935, from the cat). Ultimately only a single primitive ovum remains as a rule in each primitive follicle, having developed, it is believed, at the expense of the rest. As the development of the ovary proceeds some of these primitive follicles become enlarged. The enlargement is accompanied and indeed caused by increase in size of the primitive ovum and growth and proliferation of the germinal ^ According to Miss Lane-Claypon some of the germinal epithelium-cells also become diffused throughout the stroma, and give origin to the epithelium-like interstitial cells. This author believes that these cells, as well as those within the cell-nests, are capable of producing ova. Most authorities have looked upon the interstitial cells of the ovary as of connective tissue origin.