NERVE-ENDINGS 253 TERMINATIONS OF NERVES. It may be stated, generally, and apart from what may apply to special modes of termination, that, in approaching their final distribution, the fibres, medullated and non-medullated, usually divide into branches, the diyision in the case of medullated Fig. 388.—Small branch of a muscular nerve of the frog, near its termination, showing DIVISIONS OF THE FIBRES. (Kolliker.) Magnified 350 diameters. a, into two; h, into three. fibres always occurring in the situation of a node of Ranyier (fig. 388). The axis cylinder participates in the division; and since the white fibres frequently lose their sheaths shortly before they terminate, they are then represented only by the axis-cylinder and its ramifications. TERMINATIONS OF EFFERENT NERVES. In many involuntary muscles such as those which constitute the muscular layers of the hollow viscera, the motor nerves, which are for the most part non- medullated with a small intermixture of white fibres, form complicated plexuses as they near their termination. At the junctions of the fine nervous cords which compose the plexuses groups of ganglion-cells, forming small ganglia, are in many parts met with ; a well-known example of such a gangliated plexus being the 'plexus myentericus of Auerbach between the longitudinal and circular layers of the muscular coat of the intestine (see accompanying Plate). From these ganglia, it may be also indirectly from the nervous cords or directly from the incoming nerves, branches are sent off, which penetrate between the elements of the involuntary muscular tissue, coursing for the most part parallel with the muscular fibres. In some organs which are largely composed of involuntary muscle no such gangliated plexuses occur; the nerve-fibres pass directly to the muscular tissue. The nerve- fibres which are passing towards their terminations bifurcate and give off branches at acute angles at frequent intervals, and eventually become separated into fine filaments which may represent ultimate fibrillae. The branches which are given off from these rarely, if ever, become united with those from adjoining nerve- fibres. The fine longitudinally coursing fibrils come into close relation with the