201 CARDIAC MUSCLE ^irraugement of the muscular fibres. It differs from ordinary muscle in the fact that it has an abundant supply of lymph-vessels, which can be easily demonstrated by the method of interstitial injection. The lymph-capillaries form a network throughout the intermuscular connective tissue and unite to form efferent vessels which run over the surface of the organ underneath its serous covering (epi- cardium). These eventually pass towards lymphatics at the base of the heart and here enter lymph-glands. Small lymph-glands have also been described as occasionally occurring under the epicardium.* The nerves which pass to the muscular tissue of the heart are derived from two sources—viz. fine medullated fibres from the vagus, and non-medullated fibres from the cervical sympathetic, chiefly from its inferior ganglion. After forming the cardiac plexuses at the base, they pass to the auricles and are distributed to minute ganglia which are found there, chiefly under the epicardium, especially near the entrance of the great veins; ganglia have also been described in the interauricular septum.^ Other nerve-fibres proceed to the base of the ventricles, where microscopic ganglia also occur under the epicardium : from these, nerve-fibres extend into all parts of the muscular substance; They end in fine ramifications over the individual muscle-fibres.^ The afferent uerves mostly course under the ventricular epicardium, but others are distributed to the endocardium : these end in ramified expansions in those membranes.^ Hlstog'enesl s.—Further evidence of the syncytial nature of the cardiac muscle is obtain- able from the study of its development. For although as with other varieties of muscular tissue it is at first composed of what appear to be separate cells, derived from the meso- derm, M. Heidenhain has de- scribed a stage of development in the duck embryo in which the heart-muscle has the appear- ance of a complete syncytium with fibrils developed in its protoplasm passing far beyond the bounds of anything that •could be thought to be the individual cells, and there is .reason to believe that the same •condition obtains in other avine and mammalian embryos at a similar stage. A similar con- •dition of continuity of fibrils from one cell to another also •occurs, according to G. Mann, in the frog’s auricle (fig. 308), and, although the ventricle is formed Fig. 308.—Brancuing syncytium of heart-muscle of AURICLE OF FROG WITH MUSCLE-FIBRILS PASSING THROUGH THE CELLS. (G. MaUU.) 1 On the lymphatics of cardiac muscle, see H. Bock, Anat. Anz. xxxvii. 1905 ; Mouche, Journ. de I’anat. 1909. - M. Lissauer (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxiv. 1909) could find ganglion-cells only under the epicardium of the auricles, and of the auricular septum and auriculo-ventricular groove on both sides. He states that they follow the course of the epicardial nerves, and are not to be found either in the sub- stance of the myocardium or under the endocardium. Huber and de Witt, Journ. Comp. Morph, vii. 1898 ; Heymans and Demoor, Mem. de I’acad. roy. de med. de Belgique, xiii. 1894; H. J. Berkeley, Anat. Anz. ix. 1893. ^ Dogiel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Hi. 1898, and liii. 1899 ; Smirnow, Anat. Anz. x. 1895, and xxxii 1908; Michailow, Int. Monthly Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxv. 1908.