MUSCLE 184 E k *•* ' ' ' .U’**f*»tfTf»M»n*****i i ^ ' ' sarcomere), and have in optical section the appearance of rows of dark-looking dots. When these dots are carefully regarded they seem each to be surrounded by a bright halo (figs. 271, 285, E), which is apparently due to the manner in which they refract the light which is transmitted through the muscle, much in the same way as an oil-globule or an albuminous granule, when viewed in water under a high power of the microscope, appears, when it is exactly focussed, to be surrounded by a bright area. Since each dot is encircled by a bright halo, and the dots are arranged in regular rows, the haloes become blended into a stripe, which is much brighter than the rest of the muscle-substance. This seems to be in part the cause of the very bright appearance of the clear bands of fresh muscle, although the effect is increased by reflection from the surfaces of the more highly refracting dark discs. ^ When these (ordinary) muscles of insects contract, the sarcous elements, as in the wing-muscles, become wider and may be bulged out and shortened, while the fluid of the clear intervals is simultane- ously diminished in amount. The ends of the sarcomeres opposite the membranes of Krause may remain smaller than their middle part, in which case the fibrils become moniliform. This alteration in shape of the fibrils neces- sarily affects the sarcoplasm which lies in their interstices, which must become squeezed out of the parts which are opposite the bulgings of the fibrils and into the parts which are opposite their constrictions. In other words, the sarcoplasm must accumulate in greater quantity opposite the clear bands and the membranes of Krause, and must diminish in amount opposite the sarcous elements. This is, in fact, what can be seen to take place. In fig. 280 a contracted portion of muscle in which the sarcoplasm has been rendered evident by acid is represented, and it is seen that the sarcoplasm is accumulated opposite the trans- verse membranes where the sarcostvles are V relatively narrow.’^ In the living muscle also this change in the position of the sarcoplasm during contraction can, with care, be observed to take place (fig. 285). In this case, also, as in the wing-fibrils, the deeply moniliform shape of the fibrils tends to cause the constricted parts to appear dark, the bulged parts light in comparison, so that the effect of reversal of the strise is obtained. But in the ordinarv or leg muscles this effect is materially increased, and the contrast between the dark and light striae of the contracted muscle is greatly enhanced by the effect of the sarco- plasmic accumulations opposite the constrictions. For in the first place these themselves tend to produce the appearance of dark lines or planes passing across the fibre, and, secondly, the reflected light from their surfaces causes the muscular sub- stance between these planes to appear brighter than would otherwise be the case. Holmgren has shown that the sarcoplasm of muscle contains specific granules, which in many muscles assume a very regular arrangement. Where the sarcoplasm ^ Schiifer, Phil. Trans. 1877. ^ Cf. G. Ketzius, Biol. Unters. 1890, and E. Holmgren, op. cit. and Anat. Anz. xxxi. 1907. E Fig. 285.—Wave of contraction pass- ing OVER A MUSCULAR FIBRE OF Dytiscus. (Schafer.) Very highly magnified. E, E, portions of fibre extended ; C, con- tracted part; I, intermediate condition. I