76 VITAL PHENOMENA OF PROTOPLASM be similarly enclosed. They may be therefore described as extensions of the cell- protoplasm covered, like that, with a delicate investment. Ordinary cilia are far too minute for the presence of a covering to be detected even with the highest powers of the microscope, but in the large flagella and cilia of Protozoa a hollow structure is sometimes distinct (figs. 113, 116, 118), and there is therefore reason for the belief that in smaller flagella and in ordinary cilia it may also exist. Cilia are either rounded or flattened in section ; they are frequently broader near their attachment to the cell, from which point they taper towards the free extremity ; often they are nearly uniform in size throughout, except for a bulb-like enlarge- ment at the base which is usually present. The action of cilia is influenced by external conditions in the same manner in all respects as amoeboid movements. Thus the motion becomes more rapid, up to a certain point, with elevation of temperature, and less rapid if the external medium be cooled ; it will continue, but not indefinitely, in the absence of oxygen (Sharpey) ; it is stopped by CO2 and by the vapour of ether and chloroform, but is renewed if these are removed and replaced by air. Other chemical agents affect it either through the tendency they have to withdraw water from or to add it to the protoplasm of the cell, or by virtue of the electrolytes they contain. The action of galvanic currents varies with the condition of activity of the cilia and the position of the poles. Light has not been observed to have any effect on cilia in Metazoa, but effects of phototaxis are well seen and have been largely studied upon the ciliated Protozoa. There can be no reasonable doubt that the activity of cilia is closely related to the activity of amoeboid protoplasm, and that both kinds of movement must be produced in a manner which is essentially similar.^ CONSIDERATION OF THE MODE OF PRODUCTION OF AMOEBOID AND CILIARY MOVEMENTS. The movements of the amoeba and of other protoplasmic organisms which are designated amoeboid, although they appear to be spontaneous and even almost voluntary, are probably no more so than the movements of a drop of one fluid suspended in another, the two being separated by a surface film subject to local variations in tension. If the tension of the surface is uniform the drop remains spherical, but if the tension is reduced at any place the drop will tend to flow in the direction of reduced tension. This can be shown with oil-drops contain- ing fatty acid, immersed in dilute alkaline solutions.- The oil-drops become coated with a solid surface film of soap, and as this becomes thinner first at one place and then at another by solution in the surrounding fluid, local variations of tension are caused and ‘ amoeboid ’ movements of the oil-drop are produced. The same obtains with drops of oil-clad albumen. Further, if oil, containing fatty acid, is beaten up with an alkaline carbonate, and the mixture is placed in water, the latter penetrates between the oil-drops, and, dissolving the alkali, produces a kind of froth with a large number of internal surfaces having films of soap separating the oil from the alkaline solution, and repeating the conditions of the general surface (Biitschli).® A model to illustrate the production of amoeboid movement by changes in surface tension may even be constructed in a much coarser manner by immersing a drop of mercury in dilute nitric acid and adding a crystal of bichromate of potash to the nitric acid. As the crystal dissolves and its solution reaches the mercury a film forms on the globule, and the latter undergoes changes of surface tension first here and then there as the film is attacked by the 1 For the literature of cilia, see Putter, Ergebn. d. Physiol. 1904. Quincke, Pogg. Ann. 1888; Sitzungsb. d. Berliner Akad. 1888. Quincke states that the spherical form assumed by drops^)f cytoplasm squeezed out of a cell into water must be due to a surface film of fatty substance. Microscopic Foams, translated by Minchin, 1894.