159 OSSIFICATION IN CARTII;AGE the situation occupied afterwards by the sutures a vascular, growing connective tissue with numerous osteoblasts. This is continually on the increase, but as fast as it grows, the osteogenic fibres and the osseous spicules extend into it from the young bones on either side. At length, however, when these have attained their full dimensions, the growth of the intermediate tissue ceases, and it becomes completely invaded by bone, with the exception of the narrow and irregular line of suture, which may eventually itself become more or less obliterated. From a morphological point of view, such membrane-bones as those of the skull are probably to be regarded as evolved from an integumental skeleton which is extensively developed in some of the lower vertebrata, and which had in all probability as its phylogenetic precursor a formation of dentinous cutaneous spines. The membrane-formation in connexion with cartilage-bones may also have originated in a similar manner. OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE. It has already been stated that, in by far the greater number of bones, the mesodermic tissue with closely packed cells, of which they originally consist, is very quickly succeeded by cartilage, in which the ossification begins. One of the long bones taken from a very small embryo, just before ossification has commenced in it, is observed to be distinctly cartilaginous. In the tibia of a sheep, for example, at a time when the whole embryo is not more than an inch and a quarter in length, we can plainly see that the substance consists of cartilage-cells imbedded in a pellucid matrix. These cells can scarcely be said to be collected into groups, and are very irregular in size and shape. They become enlarged in the middle part of the shaft when ossification is about to commence. As it grows, the cartilage acquires firmer consistence ; it represents in figure the future bone, though of course much smaller in size, and it is surrounded with a fibrous mem- brane, the future periosteum. Vessels ramify in this membrane, but none are seen in the cartilage until ossification is about to begin. In a long bone the ossification commences in the middle and proceeds towards the ends, which remain long cartilaginous, as represented in fig. 248. Much later, separate points of ossifica- tion appear in them, and form epiphyses, and in some also apophyses, which, at last are joined to the body of the bone. The manner in which the process of ossification of a cartilage bone takes place is as follows : In the middle of the cartilage the cells are enlarged, and are separated from one another by a relatively larger amount of matrix than elsewhere (fig. 246). This matrix becomes hardened by calcareous deposit, assumes a granular opaque appearance, and has a gritty feel to the knife. Meanwhile the cartilage-cells above and below the centre of ossification become enlarged and flattened, and piled up in elongated groups or columns which radiate from the centre for a certain distance towards either end. The columns taper towards their ends, where the cartilage-cells Fig. 245.—Humerus of a fcetus. (Sliarpey.) Natural size. The upper part is divided longi- tudinally. a, cartilage, 6, line of junction of bone and cartilage. The periosteal bone looks lighter than the endochondral bone proper.