HAIRS 466 With the exception of the bones and teeth, no tissue of the body withstands decay after death so long as the hair, and hence it is often found preserved in sepulchres, when nothing else remains but the skeleton. Structure of the hair-follicle.—The follicle may be described as consisting of a mouth and body ; the latter being the part below the orifice of the sebaceous glands (fig. 677), The wall of the follicle consists of an outer coat continuous with the corium, and an epidermic lining continuous with the cuticle. The dermic coat is thin but firm. It is not very distinct around the mouth of the follicle, but elsewhere it consists of three layers. The external layer is formed of connective tissue in longitudinal bundles, with many elastic fibres, but with few corpuscles. It is highly vascular, and provided with nerves. It may be nerves sebaceous gland outer root-slieath inner root-sheath junction of inner and outer root-sheaths nerves Henle’s layer Huxley’s layer epidermis nerves cuticle of hair medulla fibrous substance nerves papilla blood-vessels Fiu. 677.—Diagbam of a haik-follicle. (Maurer.) regarded as being continuous above with the corium. The internal layer {kyalien layer, Kolliker) (fig. 678, i, liy) is a transparent homogeneous membrane, marked transversely on its inner surface with raised lines. It does not reach as high as the mouth of the follicle, and varies greatly in thickness at different levels of the follicle. According to Stohr ' the stratum next to the root-sheath is composed of a very fine membrane of epithelial origin. The middle layer of the dermic coat, of which it forms the thickest part, is composed of a fibrous matrix, tearing transversely, with transversely disposed connective-tissue corpuscles, with long- nuclei. This layer corresponds with the papillary part of the cutis vera, and its blood-vessels are continuous above with those of that layer. The epidermic coat of the follicle adheres closely to the root of the hair. It com- monly separates, in great part, from the follicle and abides by the hair when the 1 Anat. Hefte, xxiii. 1903.