THE 13L00D 394 lymph which is collected from the tissues passes—very few are found before the lymph reaches a gland ; the other occasional leucocytes are probably derived from the blood, having migrated into the lymphatics either near their origin in the connective tissue or within the lymph-paths of the lymph-glands. The number of corpuscles in lymph is subject to great variation, being especially increased during digestion, when a large amount of fluid (chyle) is passing through the mesenteric lymph-glands. Both lymph and chyle contain thrombocytes. Chyle contains, in addition to the microscopic elements found in lymph, a vast number of minute globules of fatty matter, long known under the name of ‘ molecular base of the chyle.’ This is derived solely from absorbed fat of the food, and is seen only in the mesenteric lymphatics (lacteals) and in the thoracic duct in which they terminate. It disappears, and with it the milky aspect of the contents of those vessels, when no food is given for some time (or food containing no fat). Fig. 592.—A blood-platelet of salamander, showing its bleb-like processes AND ALSO THE FIBRIN-FILAMENTS RADIATING FROM IT AND ATTACHED TO ADJACENT ERYTHROCYTES. (F. Meves.) Two erythrocytes, one free nucleus, and one polymorph leucocyte are included in the figure. The number of lymphocytes which are passed into the blood by way of the lymph and chyle in twenty-four hours is considerable, and may be much greater than the number permanently present in the blood. ^ For the maintenance of the average number there must be an equivalent loss by disintegration either of these or of other leucocytes which are produced from them. Whether this disintegration occurs in the blood itself or, if not, in what tissues or organs it takes place, is im- ascertained, but there is some evidence that it may, in part at least, proceed within the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. For as was first pointed out by Stohr,^ large numbers of leucocytes pass out through the stratified epithelium which covers the tonsils, and the same is the case wherever lymphoid tissue occiu’s in mucous membranes, as in the oesophagus, bronchial tubes, stomach, and intestine. The migrated leucocytes must certainly be disintegrated by the juices with which they are thus brought into contact. It cannot, however, be positively affirmed that these leucocytes are derived from the blood, for they may have been Davis and Carlson, ojji. cit. I - Vircli. Arch, xcvii. 1884.