185 MUSCLE IN POLARISED LIGHT is abundant the main granules lie opposite the sarcous element, others lying opposite the isotropous substance. He considers that there may occur an exchange of material between the sarcoplasm granules and the contents of the sarcostyle. In insect-muscle the tracheae not only encircle the fibres but pierce the sarcolemma and ramify in the sarcoplasm. The cells which are concerned with the formation of these intramuscular tracheae are regarded by Holmgren as the equivalent of the trophospongial cells which he has described as penetrating into other tissue elements. In alcohol-preparations (both of the wing-muscles and of the ordinary or leg muscles) in which the sarcous elements have been stained, there is no appearance of reversal of striation ; the darkly coloured sarcous element always occupies the central or bulged part of the sarcomere, and the unstained hyaline substance occupies the constricted parts of the sarcostyles ; but if the whole of the hyaline substance is absorbed into the sarcous element the contracted sarcomere has a nearly uniform appearance. Appearances of muscle under polarised lig'ht.—It was noticed by Boeck that, like some of the other tissues, muscle is doubly refracting (anisotropous). Briicke, however, was the first to point out that the fibre is not composed entirely of anisotropous substance, but that there is in addi- tion a singly refracting or isotropous material. In extended fibres or parts of fibres, especially those which have been fixed by alcohol and mounted in Canada balsam, the fibre appears when examined between crossed nicol prisms to be marked by alternating broad bars of light (anisotropous) and dark (isotropous) substance, the former corresponding in position to the sar- cous elements, the latter to the clear intervals of the fibrils. (In the wing- muscles also, the sarcous elements of the extended fibril appear bright, and the clear intervals, including Krause’s membrane, are dark when viewed with crossed nicols. The effect of single wing-fibrils is, however, faint owing to their relatively small diameter.) In less extended parts of the fibre, the dark or isotropous bands become relatively narrower until in the contracted parts they are reduced to comparatively narrow bands, with relatively broad bright (anisotropous) intervals (fig. 286). As Engelmann has clearly shown, there is no reversal of the anisotropous and isotropous bands in polarised light, a fact of some significance as indicating that the reversal which appears to occur when the fibre is examined by ordinary light is really, as has been already explained, an optical effect, and is not caused by a reversal in the relative position within the sarcomere of the substance of the sarcous elements and the clear intervals (see below. Theory of Merkel). The result, therefore, of the examination of muscle under polarised light is confirmatory of the deductions which may be drawn regarding its structure ‘ I am indebted to the late Professor Engelmann for these two photographs. Fig. 286.—Leg-muscle fibre of Chrysomela COERULEA WITH (FIXED) CONTRACTION WAVE, PHOTOGRAPHED UNDER POLARISING MICROSCOPE.I- A, with uncrossed nicols ; B, with crossed nicols.