CEREBELLUM 805 the tegmentum after the decussation is complete. Still farther forward—in the region of the anterior corpora quadrigemina—the fibres of this bundle lose themselves in a rounded mass of grey matter in the tegmentum, which is known as the red nucleus or nucleus of the tegmentum (fig. 482, r.n). Lastly, above the roof of the ventricle, just below the junction of the pons and mid-brain, the two small fourth nerves are seen to come to the surface and to intercross over the middle line, each passing to the superior oblique muscle of the opposite side. The bundles of this nerve, which arise from the lower end of the oculo-motor nucleus of the mid-brain, pass at first a short distance downwards in the lateral wall of the narrow part of the fourth ventricle, and are seen in sections of the uppermost part of the pons (fig. 474). The pyramids of the medulla oblongata, if traced upwards into the pons, are found to be continued into separate bundles of fibres {pyramid-bundles of the pons) which are surrounded on all sides by the grey matter known as the nuclei pontis. Posterior lunate lobule of lohus clivi Sulcus postclivalis Sulcus precUvalis Anterior lunate lobule of lobus culminis Postero-superior lobule of lobus cacuminis Sulcus horizontalis magnus Inferior semilunar lobule of lobus tuberis Sulcus postgracilis Posterior gracile lobule of lobus tuberis 'ala lobuli centr. lingxice pons Varolii lat. recess 4th ventr inf. med. velum Tonsil Sulcus intragracilis Anterior gracile lobule of lobus tuberis Sulcus pregracilis Lobulus biventralis Fig. 475. Section through one hemisphere of the cerebellum to show the DISTRIBUTION OF ITS GREY AND WHITE MATTER. (Schafer.) Natural size. In this many of the fibres which have come down to the pons from the cerebral cortex terminate ; those which are continued into the pyramids of the medulla oblongata give ofi many collaterals to this grey matter. Cerebellum.—The cerebellum belongs anatomically to the part of the central nervous system which has just been considered, and its structure may therefore be noticed next. It is formed of a median part—the worm—and two lateral hemi- spheres. Its surface is corrugated by deep and ramified sulci, with laminse between, and is covered by vascular pia mater. A section through it has a ramified appearance, which has received the name arbor vitce. Within the pia mater is a con- tinuous layer of grey matter, the cortex, and within this, in each lamina, a ivhite centre. The white centres of the various laminae unite to form a central white mass, much larger in the hemispheres than in the worm. Within this central mass, and quite near the fourth ventricle, which is covered in dorsally by the cerebellum, are certain nuclei of grey matter—viz. in the hemisphere, the wavy nucleus dentatus VOL. II. PART I.