85 C(')LUMNAR EPITH ELI UM The cells, although usually very clear and apparently structureless, may show fibrils passing from cell to cell. This is seen in the pavement-epithelium covering the posterior surface of the cornea of some animals (fig. 133); in these cells also a reticulum of fibres, which has been regarded as a modified centrosome, may be found in the neighbourhood of the nucleus (fig. 134) (Ballowitz). A pavement-epithelium lines all serous cavities, the cavities of the heart and the interior of the blood-vessels and lymphatics, the anterior chamber of the eye, the alveoli of the lungs, the outer surface of the membrana tympani, and the ducts of the mammary glands. The epithelium which lies within the anterior part of the lens-capsule is also of this character—viz. a mosaic of flattened cells. V. Brunn ‘ has described the endothelium of serous membranes as being covered on the free surface by a thin cuticular layer striated vertically. There is some reason for regarding the endothelial cells of serous membranes as flattened, superficially placed, connective-tissue cells (see p. 107). It appears from the above that the cells which are usually grouped under the head of ‘ pavement-epithelia ’ may be not only of very different origin, but may subserve entirely different functions. Fig. 134.—A cell of Descemet’s membrane OF THE CORNEA OF THE CAT, SHOWING A NETWORK IN THE PROTOPLASM NEAR THE NUCLEUS. (Ballowitz.) It is uncertain whether this network is of the nature of a paranucleus or of a trophosirongium. Columnar epithelium.—A second variety of simple epithelium is the colmmiar {cylinder-epithelium of German authors), in which the cells have a prismatic figure, and are set upright on the surface which they cover. In profile a row of these cells looks for the most part like a close palisade (fig. 135) ; but viewed from the surface each cell has a polygonal outline, the cells being flattened where they touch, from mutual compression, so that a mosaic pattern is produced. Columnar-epithelium cells vary much in form, in dimensions, and even in structure. Those which may be looked upon as typical are long and usually tapering, the finer extremity being set Fig. 130.—Columnar epithelium CELLS OF the RABBIT’S INTES- TINE. (Schiifer.) The cells have been isolated after maceration in dilute chromic acid. The striated border {str) is well seen, and the bright disc separating this from the cell-protoplasm; n, nucleus with intranuclear network; a, a thinned-out wing-like xirojection of the cell which xirobably fitted between two adjacent cells. Fig. 135.—a row of columnar cells from AN INTESTINAL VILLUS OF THE RABBIT. (Schiifer.) str, striated border ; zi?, wander-cells between the epithelium-cells. upon a surface, and the other and larger end being free. At their sides and edges they are often jagged, especially where, as is often the case, leucocytes are met with between the epithelium-cells (fig. 135, w). Indeed the cells are not by any means so regular in shape as they are often figured, being often compressed laterally, and ^ Centralbl. f. Path. xi. 1900.