ARTEmES 331 non-striped muscular fibres arranged concentrically and broken up on its outer side into more or less distinct fasciculi. It will be noticed that the muscular coat is thicker on one side than on the other, a phenomenon quite common in many arteries, and to be discussed when describing the intracranial vessels. Outside the muscu- lar coat is a broad, deeply stained band, containing a large number of elastic fibres held together by white fibrous tissue ; this zone is called the tunica externa or adventitia. Still further outwards is the loose connective tissue by which the renal artery is fixed to neighbouring tissues, and here will be seen transverse sections of a number of nerves belonging to the vaso-motor system. When examined under a higher power the following appearances are seen in a transverse section, say, of the posterior tibial artery. Internal coat {tunica intima) (fig. 511, a, h).—This may be raised from the inner surface of the arteries as a fine transparent colourless membrane, elastic but very easily broken, especially in the circular or transverse direction, so that it Fig. 512.—Tkansvebse section of the benal abteby OP A DOG. (Mann.) Stained by Weigert’s method to show the distribution of elastic tissue, and the formation of bundles of non-striped muscle where the media abuts on the externa. Outside the vessel are seen vaso- motor nerves in transverse section. Fig. 513.—Endothelial layeb LINING THE POSTEBIOB TIBLAL ABTEBY OF MAN. Silver nitrate preparation. 250 dia- meters. (Schafer.) cannot be stripped ofi in large pieces. It is commonly corrugated with fine and close longitudinal wrinkles, caused by a contracted state of the artery after death. Such is the appearance presented by the internal coat to the naked eye, but by the aid of the microscope it is found to consist of three different structures, namely : 1. An endothelial layer (fig. 511, a, and fig. 513) forming the innermost part or ning. This is a simple layer of thin elliptical or irregularly polygonal cells, which are often lengthened into a lanceolate shape. The cells have round or oval nuclei, with nucleoli: the cell-outlines are often indistinct in the fresh state, but may be brought into view by means of nitrate of silver. When the vessels are empty and collapsed, the endothelium cells are less flattened, and the part of each cell which contains the nucleus may project somewhat into the Imnen of the vessel. 2. A suhendothelial layer (striated layer of Kolliker). This is composed of a finely fibrillated connective tissue with a number of branched corpuscles lying in