11 VALINE CAKTILACtE 183 Hyaline cartilagre : structure.—In hyaline cartilage the matrix, as just stated, is uniform, and, when examined fresh, usually appears free from filires. Like the ground-substance of connective tissue, it becomes stained brown by nitrate of silver and subsequent exposure to the light. The cells consist of a rounded, oval, or bluntly angular cell-body of translucent protoplasm, imbedded in which may Fig. 215.—A c.crtilage-cell IX THE LIVING STATE, FROM THE SALAMANDER. (Flem- ming.) Highly magnified. Fig. 210.—A group of cartilage-cells SHOWING the capsular OUTLINES IN THE MATRIX SURROUNDING THE GROUP. (Ranvier.) a, nucleolus ; b, nucleus ; c, cytoplasm of a cell; d, capsular lines in pericellular matrix ; e, fibrils in cartilage matrix. sometimes be seen fine curvilinear interlacing filaments and minute granules ^ (fig. 215), sometimes fat-droplets. Each cell has a spheroidal nucleus, with one or more nucleoli ; the nucleus is occupied by a network of chromatin, which produces under a low power of the microscope a granular efiect. The cell-body lies in a cavity of the matrix, which, in its natural condition, it entirely fills. This cavity is bounded and enclosed by a trans- parent capsule, which is seldom obvious to the eye, for it coheres intimately with the surrounding matrix, with which it agrees in nature, and cannot usually be distin- guished without the aid of reagents. But sometimes the capsule which is the most newly formed part of the matrix is quite distinct, and there may further be seen surrounding the cells and ceU-groups a series of outlines which mark successive stages in the formation of cartilage-matrix (fig. 216). It is also found that the part of the matrix which more immediately surrounds the cells and cell-groups is apt to become coloured by basiphil stains much more deeply than the rest of the matrix. The groups then appear imbedded in globular masses of darkly stained matrix (fig. 217). These form the so-called ‘ chondrin-balls ’ of Morner.-^ Fig. 217.—Section of rib cartilage stained with H.EMATOXYLIN, SHOWING THE MATRIX AROUND THE CELLS AND THE CELL-GROUPS MORE DEEPLY COLOURED THAN THE REMAINDER. (Schafei’.j Magnified 200 diameters. Photograph. ’ Flemming, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xvi. 1878, and Zellbildung, Kern, u. Zelltheilung, 1882 ; N. Loewenthal, Anat. Anz. xxx. 1907. Zeitschr. f. physiol. Chemie, xii. 1888.