ADIPOSE TISSUE 130 a reticulum of branched cells, is known to undergo conversion into or, at least, replacement by adipose tissue. But here the fat is foi med mainly in the interlobular connective tissue, while the thymus lobules themselves undergo atrophy. The hypothesis that adipose tissue is a tissue sui generis, and not merely a vascular connective tissue in the cells of which fat has become deposited, was suggested by Kdlliker (in 1856), but was especially urged by Toldt,' who pointed out the apparently specific character of the tissue in those situations where, in the embryo, fat first becomes visible to the naked eye, as in the region between the kidneys, in the groin, and in the axilla. In these and some other places the adipose tissue appears as a gland-like vascular mass, which has been termed a ‘ primitive fat-organ ’ or ‘ fat-gland ’ (see p. 126).^ Its cells, although not yet filled Pig. 213.—A later stage in the development of adipose tissue, from a section OF THE INTRATHORACIC TISSUE OF A CHILD AGED ELEVEN MONTHS. (H. Batty Sliaw.) The fat-drops now fill most of the cells, but some still contain a number of separate droplets and are chiefiy comj)Osed of granular protoplasm. with fat, may contain some fat-droplets; they are large and spherical or polyhedral, with numerous sinus-like blood-vessels between them (fig. 212) ; they may be nearly as large as the fully formed fat-cell. Some have a mulberry-like appearance due to the fat-drops they contain. As more fat is deposited within them the successive drops run together ; a single fat-drop is eventually thereby produced in each cell (fig. 213). But in most places where adipose tissue is found the fat is deposited in the ordinary branched cells of the connective tissue, and blood-vessels are produced pan fassu with the deposition of fat. This form of adipose tissue never assumes 1 Wiener Sitzungsb. Ixvi. 1870. 2 In hibernating animals adipose tissue accumulates towards autumn to form a considerable mass between the kidneys, which gradually undergoes absorption as the winter months run on, and which doubtless serves as a store of fuel for the animal during its winter sleep. This mass is known as the ‘ liibernating gland.’ For an account of its changes in the hedgehog, see E. W. Carlier, Jouru. Anat. and Physiol, xxvii. 1895.