NERVE-ENDINGS. 262 Development.—Ranvier,' who studied the development of thetaetile corpuseles, found that in the infant at birth they are represented by a buneh of bulbous nerve-endings immediately below the epid^mis at the summit of a papilla and an island of speeialised mesodermic cells lying just underneath the bunch of nerve-endings. Seven weeks after birth (fig. 408) these cells are found to have insinuated them.selves between the mass of nerve-terminals, which are now much more numerous. The cells, as development proceeds, become flattened out and arranged so as to produce a lobulation of the corpuscle, with groups of the bulbous nerve- endings in each lobule. As growth proceeds, connective tissue is found between the lobules and also around the whole corpuscle in the form of a capsule, and the nuclei gradually pass to the periphery, so that in the adult they are rarely found in the middle of the corpuscle. Snd-bulbs.—If the conjunctiva of the calf or of certain other animals is spread out and examined under the microscope, many of the medullated nerves which course in different directions in the membrane may be seen to end in very small oval or elongated corpuscles (fig. 409), into the interior of which the axis- cylinder of the nerve-fibre passes, surrounded by a core, which sometimes appears homogeneous, but more often shows nuclei scattered throughout its length ; the axis- cylinder ends near the extremity of the core, with a rounded or dilated termination, and commonly gives off numerous lateral branches in its course. The dilatations Fig. 408.—Tactile corpuscle of CHILD OF SEVEN WEEKS OLD. Gold preparation. (Ranvier.) /?, afferent nerve; a, cells of nodule; &, ramifications of axis-cylin- der with enlargements. Fig. 409.—Cylindrical end-bulbs from the CONJUNCTIVA OF THE CALF. (Merkel.) A, in optical longitudinal section ; B, in trans- verse section ; ii, entering nerve-fibre ; c, nucleated capsule. contain a fine fibrillar network continuous with the fibrils of the axis-cylinder. The core with its contained fibre is enclosed in a nucleated capsule composed of flattened cells. The medullary sheath ceases abruptly at the entrance of the nerve, whereas the primitive sheath appears to be continued over the core, and to line the capsule. These end-hulhs were discovered by W. Krause. They are sometimes of a cylindrical form, sometimes more rounded, and they may occur singly or in small agglomerations. End-bulbs of a spheroidal form occur abundantly in men and monkeys in the conjunctiva (figs. 410, 411), and have also been found in man in the papilloe of the skin covering the lips, in the mucous membrane of the cheeks, soft palate, tongue, epiglottis, nasal cavities, and lower end of the rectum. Sometimes the medullated fibre which passes to each end-bulb divides into two or more branches before reaching the bulb, and the branches may be twisted around one another on their passage towards the organ. The capsule is continuous with the sheath of Henle of the nerve-fibre. A form of end-bulb which is found in the human skin and which was described by A. S. Dogiel,'^ has a cylindrical form, sometimes bent, and is formed of a coimective- Comptes rendus, December ‘27, 1880. I - Zeitsclir. f. wiss. Zool. Ixxv. 1903.