STRUCTURE OF CELL 9 contractile, susceptible of spontaneously forming within itself spherical cavities or vacuoles which become occupied by the surrounding liquid. . . . Sarcode is insoluble in water, but is eventually decomposed by it, leaving a granular residuum. Potash does not dissolve it suddenly like mucus or albumen, and seems simply to hasten its decomposition by water ; nitric acid and alcohol immediately coagulate it and render it white and opaque. . . . The most simple animals, such as amoebae and monads, are entirely composed, at least to all appearance, of this living jelly. . . . Sarcode is without visible organs and has no appearance of cellularity ; but it is nevertheless organised, for it emits various prolongations along which granules pass and which are alternately extended and retracted : in one word, it possesses “ life.'’' ^ Gradually, both in plants as well as in the lower animals, it came to be generally recognised that the sarcode of Dujardin and the protoplasm of v. Mohl are endowed with similar attributes, and a cell was defined as composed of structureless proto- plasm, endowed with irritability and contractility, containing a nucleus and enclosed by a cell-membrane. That a cell-membrane is, however, not an essential character and is often absent, especially in animal cells, was shown by Leydig (in 1856), and was especially emphasised by M. Schultze and by Briicke (in 1861). Even at the present time the definition of a cell proposed by Leydig holds good—‘ a mass of protoplasm furnished with a nucleus.' ^ Taking this definition as a starting-point, we may, to begin with, study these two parts of the cell independently, although, as will presently appear, they are in the most extended sense functionally interdependent, and must ultimately be regarded as being both essential parts of the one elementary unit—the cell. Cells show great variation in size. In the human body they vary from that of the lymphocytes of the blood and lymph and the ‘ granule-cells' of the cerebrum and cerebellum, which are amongst the smallest, and measure only about 4/x in diameter,^ to the ‘ Betz-cells ' of the motor region of the brain, and the ‘ giant-cells' of bone-marrow and of developing bone (figs. 54 and 64), which last measure from 40/x to 80/x, and represent the largest individual cells which are met with in man. In the animal kingdom generally, and in plants, the variation is much greater even than this. Nevertheless, although the largest are just visible to the naked eye, cells in general are of quite microscopic dimensions. In many cases a distinction has to be drawn between the part of the cell which contains the nucleus, which is usually termed the cell-body (perikaryon of Sherrington), and processes which extend from it. Such processes may be of great length, as with the axon-processes of nerve-cells ; they may be either fixed, or movable and capable of being retracted, as with the processes of amoeboid cells, which are known as pseudopodia ; or they may be endowed with rhythmic motility, as with the processes known as cilia. The opinion has been frequently expressed during recent years that the cell is not the ultimate living unit of the animal and plant organism, but that the living material both of cell-substance ’ Quoted from Canroy, ‘ Histoire de la Cellule,’ Biologie Cellulaire, 1884. A concise account of the structure of the several parts of the cell is given by C. E. Walker, Essentials of Cytology, 1907. The following monog^^phs on cell-structure may be especially mentioned: Flemming, Zellsubstanz, Kern u. Zelltheilung, 1882 (this has a full bibliography to that date); also a series of articles by the same author in the Arch. f. mikr. Anat. and in the Ei-gebn. d. Anat. (the latter commencing in 1891); Henneguy, Lemons s. 1. cellule, 1896 ; E. Holmgren, Ergebn. d. Anat. xi. 1901; A. Gurwitsch, Morph, u. Biol. d. Zelle, 1904 ; Prenant, Bouin, and Maillard, Histologie, t. i. 1904; Ruzicka, Ergebn. d. Anat. xyi. 1906; M. Heidenhain ‘ Plasma u. Zelle,’ in v. Bardeleben’s Handb. d. Anat. 1907. ^ This definition does not apply, however, to all living organisms, for many unicellular protozoa and phytozoa have no nucleus, its place being taken by particles of basichroinatic matter which have been designated cliromidia. Perhaps the so-called nuclei of the blood-platelets may come under this designation. See on chromidia, Dobell, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc. liii. 1909. If, as seems probable, the blood-platelets or thrombocytes are to be considered as cells, the possible dimensions of a cell of the human body must be reduced to 2^u, or even l^u. (The sign is employed to indicate the one-thousandth part of a millimeter, and is known as a micron.)