MUSCLE 180 In most muscular fibres the sarcoplasm further exhibits a peculiarity of arrange- ment which has a very characteristic influence upon the optical appearance of the fibre. As is shown in the longitudinal view of the fresh muscle (fig. 271) and still more strikingly in the longitudinal view of the muscle which has been treated with acid (fig. 272), the lines which represent the intercolumnar sarcoplasm exhibit enlargements at regular intervals upon their course. These enlargements lie in the bright cross strise, either near its junction with the dim cross strise as shown in fig. 271, or in its middle opposite the constricted part: in the former case the enlargements form a double row in each bright stria, in the latter case they may be blended into a single row (fig. 280). In the longitudinal optical section these enlargements of sarcoplasm have the appearance of dots upon the fine longitudinal lines which run through the muscle ; in the more extended fibres or parts of a fibre, these dots are in double rows, in less extended parts they are thicker and blend together in the middle of the bright stria ; this difference is well exhibited in fig. 285 at the parts marked E and I respectively. Of com'se, wherever there is an increase in the sarcoplasm, as represented by the enlargements, the fibrils between which the sarcoplasm is situated must have corresponding constrictions, or, in other words, the lateral juxtaposition of varicose or moniliform fibrils causes an accumulation of sarcoplasm opposite to the indenta- tions of the fibrils : this may be readily understood by reference to fig. 280. The dots of the longitudinal view correspond, therefore, to the coarser transverse networks which are seen near the surface of the separated discs (fig. 275), while the fine lines of the longitudinal view correspond to the more delicate network seen in other and deeper planes of the discs. It is also clear from what has been said that these rectilinear appearances do not denote the presence of a network of filaments, but are the optical efiect of septa separating the varicose fibrils or sarcostyles, which septa, at the level of the apparent dots, are thickened by the accumu- lation of a larger amount of sarcoplasm. In muscular fibres which have been treated first with acid and afterwards Avith chloride of gold, and which have been placed in formic acid for twenty-four hours, or until the gold has become reduced in the tissue, the sarcoplasm becomes stained of a dark violet colour, while all the rest of the muscular substance remains unstained (Cohnheim’s method). The reticular appear- ances are thereby rendered very distinct, and at one time led to the belief that the muscle-substance consists of a contractile reticulum composed 'of longitudinal filaments and transverse networks, and enclosing in its meshes a non-contractile fluid substance {enchylema, Carnoy), which is continuous in every direction in the fibre. But it can be proved, as will be seen immediately when the structure of the wing-muscles of insects is considered, that the inter-reticular substance (^.<?. the substance forming the sarcostyles and fibrils) is undoubtedly actively contractile, whereas it is by no means clear that the Fig. 280.—P.art of a contracted FIBRE OF INSECT-MUSCLE (lEG) TREATED WITH VINEGAR. (Scliafer.) The moniliform appearance of the sarcostyles and the accumulations of the sarcoplasm opposite their con- strictions are well seen. The ordinary cross-striation is not visible. A B Fig. 279. — Part of leg-muscle FIBRE OF INSECT IN EXTENDED (A) AND CONTRACTED (B) CONDITION RESPECTIVELY. Stained with gold by Rollett’s method. (Schafer.) In A nine fibrils are represented ; in B only six. The membranes of Krause are not shown. In A the sarcoplasm is represented as dark lines, in B as light lines.