112 THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE8 Fig. 181.—Eight cells from the same tendon as repre- sented IN FIG. 180. (Schafer.) Magnified 425 diameters. The nuclei, with their numerous nucleoli, were deeply coloured by the logwood. The dark lines on the surface of the cells are the optical sections of lamellar extensions directed towards or away from the observer. to become fibrous ; and fasciae which in one body are areolar in character may be decidedly fibrous in another. In fibrous tissue the cells, which are often called ‘ tendon-cells,’ are all of the lamellar variety. They follow the parallel arrangement of the fibre-bundles, and are disposed in rows or chains (fig. 180), which may be easily seen if a very fine tendon, such as those in the tail of the mouse or rat, or a portion only of a larger one, is examined under the microscope, and a little dilute acetic acid is cautiously added. A peculiar shape is impressed upon these cells by the close packing of the tendon-bundles, for although they may look quadrangular or oblong when the tendon is viewed longitudinally (figs. 180, 181), yet when it is cut across they have a stellate appearance (figs. 179, 182); since, like other flattened connective-tissue cells, they send lamellar extensions into the interstices between the contiguous bundles, whilst the middle of each cell, containing the nucleus, lies in the angular space between three or more bundles. When the tendon-cells are viewed longitudinally, any of the lamellar extensions, which are directed either towards or away from the observer, appear as lines on the surface of the cell (fig. 181). The same appearance is often seen upon the flattened cells of the denser forms of areolar tissue, where the cells have been squeezed in between three or more bundles. Each tendon-cell consists of a protoplasmic body, thicker at the centre and thinning off in the extensions, and containing a flattened, round or oval, clear nucleus, with an intranuclear network and one or two nucleoli. The ends of adjacent cells are in close apposition, and form, as before noticed, chains of cells in the tendon, and the nucleus is generally so situated towards one end of the cell as to be in close proximity to the nucleus of an adjacent cell ; they thus present the appear- ance of being arranged in pairs (figs. 180,181). Here and there a third nucleus with a small amount of protoplasm, may be seen interpolated between two such cells. The lamellar extensions of the cells do not always end with an even line, but are themselves often pro- longed into fine branches, which penetrate still farther into the ground-substance which separates the fibre-bundles of the tendon from one another. WITH LOGWOOD. (Scliafer.) Mag- nified 175 diameters. The flattened processes of the tendon-cells (which are stained deeply by logwood) appear in section as lines, frequently coining off at right-angles from the body of the cell. The bundles of fibres are not represented ; they are very irregular, and but incompletely separated by the cell-processes. Fig. 188.—Cell-spaces of tendon of mouse’s tail, brought INTO view by treatment WITH NITRATE OF SILVER. (Schiifer.) Magnified 175 diameters.