GRANULES IN PROTOPLASM 23 granules are not all of the same character, either in different cells or within the protoplasm of the same cell. The readiest way to exliibit them is by the employ- ment of differential methods of staining: some—presumably of an acid nature— becoming stained more readily by basic colouring substances; others—presumably of a basic nature—by acid colouring substances; others by both basic and acid dyes ; and others, again, most effectively by neutral dyes.' This has led to the use of the terms basi- or baso-phil, oxyphil (or eosinophil), amphophil, and neutrophil, to describe these several kinds of granules—terms originally intro- duced by Ehrlich^ to designate the granules of the white blood-corpuscles (fig. 36). In size, also, there is much variation, some granules being so small as to be almost ultramicroscopic, and others large enough to be easily seen with a moderately high power of the microscope. In shape they are generally globular, although in some secreting cells crescentic granules occur; in the leucocytes of the cat they are cylindroidal. There is strong reason to believe that the granules sometimes represent material which is in pro- cess of gradual elaboration; for the granules in cells of the same kind at different times, or even in the same individual cell in different parts of its substance, exhibit gradations in size and chemical constitution, indicative of growth and chemical changes in the granules. A striking illustration of this is seen in the production of fat within cells, both in the cells which form adipose tissue, and in those of the intestinal epithelium during fat absorption (fig. 37). In both cases, according to Altmann and his fellow-workers, the cell-protoplasm shows at first fine granules which appear from their reactions to be of protein nature. These become gradually transformed into, or at any rate replaced by, granules which begin to give the reactions of fat (fig. 38) ; by a constant increase in number these ultimately fill the greater part of the protoplasm, and eventually run together to form large and distinct globules of fat.** In mucus-secreting cells ^ On the differential staining of the granules in cells and nuclei, see G. Schlater, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xliv. 1895. I Farbenaualyt. Unters. z. Histol. u. Klin. d. Blutes, 1891 5 Krehl, Arch. f. Anat. 1890 ; E,. Metzner, ibid Fig. 37. — Gkanules in- intestinal EPITHELIUM OF FiioG. (Altmann.) Fig. 35.—Epithelium-cells of salamandeb LAKVA, STAINED iutra vitam with neu- TKAL BED, SHOIVTNG THE CELL-GBANULES. (Fischel.) Magnified 300 diameters. Fig. 36.—Vabious kinds of coloubless cob- PUSCLES, SHOWING DIFFEBENT CHABACTEBS OF THE GBANULES. (Fi’om a film prepara- tion of normal human blood.) Two of each kind are represented.