THE SPLEEN 412 anastomosing ; wliereas the arteries appear to have few or no anastomoses within the substance of the organ. From the description above given, it would appear that the blood in passing through the spleen is brought into immediate relation with the elements of the pulp, and no doubt it undergoes important changes in the passage ; in this respect resembling the lymph as it passes through the lymph-glands. Two modifications which are probably efiected in it may be here pointed out. In the first place the lymphoid tissue ensheathing the arteries, together with that composing the Malpighian corpuscles, would appear, like the same tissue in the lymph-glands and other parts, to be the seat of the production of lymphocytes. At the circum- ference of this tissue, these can pass into the interstices of the pulp, and so into the blood. It is found, in fact, that the blood of the splenic vein is extremely rich in lymphocytes. In the second place, red blood-corpuscles may be taken up Fig. 014.—Subface view of a venous sinus from section of pulp of spleen of monkey. (S,. Mollier.) The longitudinal fibres of the wall of the sinus and the transverse fibres of the reticulum which encircle the sinus are well shown. by the pulp-cells, their colouring-matter being transformed into pigment. The splenic cells have, indeed, been noticed, when examined on the warm stage, to take red corpuscles into their interior. Lastly, if it be the case that nucleated red corpuscles occur normally in the spleen, it may also be a seat of formation of coloured blood-corpuscles, at least in some animals. According to F. P. Mall' the spleen may be regarded as composed of a great number of lobules about 1 mm. in diameter, imperfectly marked off from one another by the network of the trabeculae. He describes each of these lobules as receiving a terminal arteriole, the capillary branches of which end in small expansions with incomplete walls, and the blood extravasates through side openings in them into the interstices of the pulp. The small veins, which form a plexus within the lobule, have similar lateral openings, so that on contraction of the organ the blood passes into them out of the pulp interstices. The description of an interstitial circulation in the spleen was originally given by Stieda and was strongly advocated by W. Muller.Previous to Muller most authorities considered that the ' Jolins Hopkius Hospital Bulletin, ix. 1898, also Amer. Jouvu. Auat. ii. 1902. - Article ‘ Spleen ’ in Strieker’s Handbook of Histology, 1871.