421 STRUCTURE with synovia and crossed obliquely by one or more folds or duplications of the membrane, named “ frtcna,” which in some parts inclose a considerable amount of elastic tissue (J, Marshall). 3. Vesic^dar or bursal synovial membranes, synovial burses, burses mucoses.—In these the membrane has the form of a simple sac, interposed, so as to prevent friction, between two surfaces which move upon eaeh other. The synovial sae in such cases is flattened and has its two opposite sides in apposition by their inner surface, which is free and lubricated with synovia, whilst the outer surface is attached by areolar tissue to the moving parts between which the sac is placed. In regard to situation, the bursoe may be either deep-seated or subcutaneous. The former are for the most part placed between a muscle or its tendon and a bone or the exterior of a joint, less commonly between two muscles or tendons : the bursae situated in the neighbourhood of joints not infrequently open into them. The subcutaneous bursae lie immediately under the skin, and are found in various regions of the body interiDOsed between the skin and some firm prominence beneath it. The large bursa situated over the patella is a well-known example of this elass. Similar though smaller bursae are found over the olecranon, the malleoli, the knuckles, and various other prominent parts. It must, however, be observed that among these subcutaneous bursae are reckoned some which do not always present the characters of true synovial sacs, but look more lilm mere recesses in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, larger and more defined indeed than the neighbouring areolae, but not bounded by an evident synovial mem- brane. These may be looked on as examples of less developed structure, forming a transition between the areolar-tissue spaces and perfect synovial cavities ; indeed it may happen that what Fig. 623.—Section of a synovial membrane. (Hammar.) Highly magnified. a, a superficial cell, lying on the inner surface; b, other superficial cells partly embedded in the membrane, but with projections beyond the surface; c, a detached cell within the cavity. is a well-developed synovial bursa in one subject is merely an enlarged areola in another. Many of the bursse do not appear until after birth, and they are said to increase in number as age advances. Structure of synovial membranes.—The synovial membranes are com- posed entirely of connective tissue with the usual cells and fibres of that tissue. Some of the cells near the surface of the membrane exhibit peculiarities of staining reaction which, according to Hammar,^ entitle them to the specific designation of ‘ synovial * cells,’ but in general appearance all closely resemble branched ‘ lamellar ’ connective- tissue cells (fig. 623). It was formerly stated, and is still asserted by some authors, that synovial membranes are lined with an endothelial layer of flattened cells, similar to those lining the serous membranes, but, as was shown by Hiiter, there exists no complete lining of the kind. Here and there, it is true, patches of cells maybe met with which present an epithelioid appearance (fig. 624, e), as, indeed, we know to be the case in the connective tissue of other parts ; but most of the surface-cells of the synovial membranes are of the irregularly branched type (fig. 625), the surface of the membrane between the cells and sometimes also over them being formed by the ground-substance of the connective tissue, whilst here and there small blood-vessels come close to the surface from subjacent parts. The cells are in many places smaller than in connective tissue generally. They vary much in shape in different situations, sometimes forming a network in the tissue by the anastomosis of their ramifying processes, in other parts being rounded, and more 1 Arch. f. miltr. Anat. xliii. 1894.