450 THE SKIN ep. Many of the cells of the cuticle contain pigment-granules, and in parts give the membrane more or less of a tawny colour, even in the white races of mankind ; the blackness of the skin in the negro depends entirely an pigment in the cuticle. The pigment is contained principally in the cells of the deepest layer of the rete mucosum (fig. 658), but even the superficial part possesses a certain amount. In the intercellular channels of the Malpighian layer stellate cells (probably leucocytes) are occasionally observed (Langerhans), and these, in animals, may also contain pigment-granules. Development.'—The epidermis is derived from the cutaneous ectoderm. During the second month of intra-uterine life it consists of two layers of proto- plasmic cells, of which the deeper are smaller and cubical, soon becoming columnar, the more superficial larger and flattened, soon becoming polygonal. The latter multiply, and by the second month are two or three cells deep; the most superficial cells are now clearer and more swollen, and stain less deeply with basic dyes, than the deep layer of cells. Between the second and third month, according to the observations of Minot and Bowen,-^ the most superficial layer of the epidermis is formed by a complete stratum of these enlarged, swollen-out cells (fig. 659). These were noticed by Zander upon the fingers and toes of embryos of about thir- teen weeks or more, and were termed by him ‘ bladder ’-cells. The layer increases for a time in thickness, so as to be several cells deep (fig. 660), or even in certain parts, e.q. over the situation of the developing nails and on the palmar surface of the hands and plantar surface of the feet, to acquire a considerable thickness. Here the stratum seems to persist, but it disappears over the body of the nail, and also over the remainder of the surface of the skin, so that by the sixth month it is only found near the free border and root of the nail, and perhaps forming the thick horny layer of the palms and soles, which belongs to the second type of horny layer of Zander. This layer of bladder-like cells appears to correspond with an epithelial membrane which was first noticed by Welcker in a sloth-embryo, covering the surface of the body and lying over the developing hairs, hence named by him e/pi- tricTiium. It has accordingly been termed the epitrichial layer, and has been shown to be of wide occurrence in the embryos of mammals and birds, and also to be represented in reptiles.'^ The cells of the foetal epidermis underneath this epitrichial layer form the rete mucosum or Malpighian layer. The more superficial cells of the rete mucosum develop granules of eleidin and eventually become keratinised, so that a stratum corneum is produced. After the throwing off of the epitrichial layer, the super- ficial cells of the stratum corneum are also gradually cast off, whilst others pass from the rete mucosum to replace them. The cast-off scales, mingled with Fig, 659.—Section of epideemis feom the OCCIPUT OF A FCETUS OF 2^ MONTHS, (Bowen.) Fig. 660.—Section of epideemis feom the PALM OF A 3 MONTHS FCETUS. (Bowen.) ep., epitrichial layer. ^ On the development of the epidermis and its appendages see W. Krause in Hertwig’s Handbuch der vergl. Entwickelungsgesch. ii. 1906. - Amer. Ass. for the Adv. of Science, 1885. ^ Anat. Anz. iv. 1889. On the epitrichium in the bird-embryo see E. G. Gardiner, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxiv. 1884; B, Kosenstadt, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlix, 1897. Rosenstadt finds the epitrichium-cells in the bird- embryo to be full of keratohyalin granules, which are derived from the nuclei. He considers the presence of these granules to be typical of epitrichium-cells, and states that these cells contain no keratin.