207 NEUROGLIA It is composed of cells and fibres. The latter are usually regarded as either forming or at least as being included within the processes of the cells. Some authors, however, regard it as probable that the fibres are not actually connected with the cells in the fully formed condition, but run in a ground-substance indepen- dently of the cells,’ much as is the case with the fibres of connective tissue. This opinion is mainly based upon the fact that the fibrils can be stained distinctively,^ but the argument would equally apply to the fibrils of nerve-cells, which are certainly parts of the cells. Like nerve - cells, neuroglia - cells are stained black by the Golgi chromate of silver method, and they then appear as stellate bodies with long fibre-like processes radiating out from the cell-body and passing between the proper nervous ele- ments. The great majority of neuroglia-cells possess only these long, fine, and unbranched pro- cesses, which may extend a long way from the cell-body (fibrillar or spider-cells) (fig. 317). But there are a certain number in which the pro- cesses are dendritic ; in this case they usually terminate at no great distance from the body of the cell (arborescent or protoplasmic cells, fig. 318).^ In cells which are un- stained (fig. 316) or in which only the fibres are stained, the cell- substance being left clear, the fibres describe a special relationship between cer- tain neuroglia-cells and blood-capillaries, as well as by those of E. Holmgren, who has described a trophospongium within nerve- cells which is penetrated by branches of neuroglia-cells. Aguerre also suggests an active function for neuroglia-cells (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivi. 1900). 1 Huber, Amer. Journ. of Anat. i. 1901; Yamagiwa, Virch. Arch. clx.; Reinke, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. 1. 1897 ; Whitwell, Brit. Med. Journ. 1898. 2 Weigert, Anat. Anz. 1890, and Beitr. z. Kenntn. d. norm, menschl. Neuroglia, 1895. On the structure of neuroglia, see also E. Muller, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Iv. 1900 (fishes); Rubaschin, Arch, f. mikr. Anat. Ixiv. 1904; and Hardesty, Amer. Journ. Anat. ii. 1902. Hardesty regards the neuroglia elements as forming a permanent syncytium, but the evidence of Golgi preparations is in favour of their being distinct from one another. Andriezen, op. cit. Fig. 316. — A neuboglia-cell ISOLATED IN 33 P. C. ALCOHOL (Ranvier.) Pig. 317.—‘ Spideb ’ neuboglia-cell with numebous UNBBANCHED PIBBES EXTENDING IN ALL DIBEC- TiONS FBOM THE CELL-BODY. Golgi preparation. (Andriezen.) Fig. 318.—Neuboglia-cell with abbobescent PBOCESSES attached TO A C.-VPILLABY VESSEL. (Andriezen.)