SPINAL CORD 295 mater) which covers the surface ; this layer may be free from nerve-fibres: it is termed the superficial neuroglia (fig. 465). The nerve-fibres of the white matter are also in part supported by connective tissue, which is prolonged into the centres from the pia mater, accompanying the blood-vessels which are supplied from this membrane to the nervous substance, but the actual amount of true connective tissue in the nerve-centres is very small. From all parts of the white matter where it is adjacent to the grey substance fine medullated collateral fibres are given off: these pass into the grey substance and terminate in arborescences and synapses around its cells. Spinal cord (medulla spinalis).—In the spinal cord the grey matter lies in the centre (fig. 466). In each lateral half of the cord it forms an irregularly crescentic mass—the grey crescent—which approaches the surface at its two horns Dorso-Jateral fissure Dorsal median fissure Dorsal root-bundle Dorso-lateral col Subsf. gelat. of dorsal horn Bundle of Flechsig Lat. pyram. tr. Form, retie. Lateral projection of ventral horn Central Vent, commissure Ventral Ventral median fissure Fig. 466.—Section of human spinal cord from upper cervical region. (Schafer.) Photograph. Magnified about 8 diameters. —dorsal and ventral—and which is joined with its fellow of the opposite side by a bridge of grey matter in the middle of which is the central canal of the cord. The shape and amount of grey matter vary in the different regions. In the tlioracic region the grey matter is relatively in least amount, corresponding to the fact that the nerve-roots which are connected with the thoracic cord are relatively small. But in the uppermost segment of the thoracic region and in most of the cervical region there is a considerable addition to the grey matter of the anterior horn, and the same is found to obtain from the penultimate thoracic to the third sacral segment. These additions contain the nerve-cells from which the motor nerves of the limb-muscles are derived, and mainly afiect the ventral horn, but an increase of size occurs also in the dorsal horn and body of the crescent in the same regions. The nerve-cells in the grey matter appear in transverse sections as if arranged in groups (fig. 467) ; in longitudinal sections the groups take the form of elongated