685 SUPRARENAL CAPSULE traversing the sinusoids. The cells of the medulla are large; they have a finely granular protoplasm ; by certain methods of staining much more distinct <rranules, which are believed to be connected with their secretion, can be demonstrated within them.' In man the cells are mostly of an irregularly polyhedral shape, but in many animals they are distinctly columnar and are arranged along the blood-sinuses like the cells of a secreting gland around the lumen of its alveoli and ducts. As already stated, they possess the specific property of becoming coloured brown by chromic acid and its salts. The blood of the medullary sinusoids is collected into veins near the centre and ultimately into a single vessel which emerges from the hilum of the gland, and receiving branches from the veins of the cortex and capsule becomes the suprarenal vein. The medulla and cortex of the suprarenal have not in all vertebrata the same relationship as is found in man, although this relationship obtains in mammals, in birds, and in reptiles. In amphibia both kinds of cell exist, but they are imbedded in the cortex of the kidneys. In teleostean fishes no structure is found representing a medulla. In elasmobranch fishes the cortex is represented by a median gland known as the inter-renal body, and the meduUa by a series of ‘ faired bodies ’ which lie in close relationship to the ganglia of the sympathetic chain. The cortex and medulla of the suprarenals are developed from entirely different embryonic rudiments, the cortex being derived from the mesothelium covering the Wolffian body, the medulla from the same cells as form the sympathetic ganglia, these cells becoming in certain parts ganglion-cells, in others chromaphil-cells. (See Vol. I., i?. 205.) Vessels and nerves.—The suprarenals receive directly from the aorta as well as from the phrenic and renal arteries. All these vessels break up into small branches before entering the fibrous capsule. The veins of each organ are usually united into one, which emerges on the anterior surface at the hilum. That on the right side enters the inferior cava, and that on the left the renal vein. The veins contain longitudinal bundles of plain muscular tissue in their walls. Veins in the capsule communicate with those in the capsule of the adjacent kidney and also mth the phrenic veins.- Lymph-vessels in the gland are numerous. They form a network of large vessels on the inner surface of the fibrous capsule and a second network in the medulla,^ these two networks being united by lymphatics which traverse the cortex. Efferent vessels pass both from the capsule and from the medulla (at the hilum) and enter lymph-glands near the organ. The nerves are derived from the greater splanchnic, through the solar and renal plexuses. According to Bergmann some fibres come from the phrenic and vagus nerves.^ They are chiefly medullated, and are destined both for cortex and medulla, some passing direct to the medulla, others after supplying the cortex. They lose their medullary sheath in small peripheral ganglia, some before entering, others within the organ. Besides a nerve-plexus in the capsule there are fine plexuses in the medulla ; from the latter fibres pass into the cell-columns. Ganglion-cells of sympathetic type are sometimes seen in the medulla (see gz in lower figure of Plate). ^ Carlier, op. cit.\ Hultgreen and Andersson, Skandin. Arch. f. Physiol, ix. 1899. See also Stoerck and Harberer, Arch. f. raikr. Anat. Ixxii. 1908. ^ See on the development of the vessels of the suprarenal capsules E. Luna, Internat. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxvii. 1910. ^ According to Kumita (Arch. f. Anat. 1909) these run in the walls of the larger veins. ^ Biedl (Die Nebenniere, 1910) got increased flow of blood through the suprarenals on stimulating the greater splanchnic. Tscheboksaroff (Pfliiger’s Arch, cxxxvii. 1910) got an increase of adrenin both in the gland and in the blood generally on stimulating this nerve, whereas its section led to a marked diminution of adrenin. Stimulation of the vagus produced no effect. The physiology of the chromaphil substance of the suprarenals is dealt with at considerable length by G. Bayer (Ergebn. d. path. Anat. Jahrg. xiv. 1910), who also gives an extended bibliography of the subject.