STOMACH 584 Iiymphoid tissue of mucous membrane.—The stomaclis of young persons sometimes present a mamillated aspect, due to little elevations of the surface, produced by local accumulations of lymphoid tissue, somewhat resembling the solitary follicles of the intestine. These lymphoid accumulations, which are most numerous near the junction of the stomach and small intestine (Watney), are situated amongst the glands, and do not extend into the submucous tissue ; thev are not so distinctly circumscribed as those of the intestine, but fade off into the surrounding retiform tissue. They vary in development in different individunls, and are sometimes not found. Vessels and nerves.—The stomach is a highly vascular organ. Its arteries, derived from all three divisions of the coeliac axis, are conveyed to it between the folds of the peritoneum, and form, by anastomosis, two principal arterial arches, which are placed along its twm curvatures. The branches of these pass through the muscular coat (to wdiich they give oft some arterioles) into the submucous areolar d < Fig. 774.—Plan of the blood- vessels OF THE MUCOUS MEM- BiiANE OF THE STOMACH. (Modi- fied from Brinton.) o, small arteries passing to break up into the fine capillary network, between the glands; coarser capil- lary network around the mouths of the glands; c, c, veins passing vertically downwards from the super- ficial network; c, larger vessels in the submucosa. Fig. 775.—Lymphatics of the hcman gastric MUCOUS MEMBRANE, INJECTED. (LoveU.) The glands are only faintly indicated; «, mus- cularis mucoste ; 6, plexus of fine vessels at base of glands; c, plexus of larger valved lymphatics in submucosa. tissue, w'here they freely anastomose, and whence they are distributed to the mucous membrane and to the muscular layers (fig. 773). The terminal arterial branches (fig. 774, a) which enter the mucous membrane are spirally coiled in its deeper part. Hence they pass between the tubules, ramifying freely in a radial manner and forming a plexus {d) of fine capillaries upon the walls of the tubules; this plexus passes superficially into a coarser capillary network around the mouths of the glands. The veins, few'er in number than the arteries, arise from the latter network, and take an almost straight course (c, c) through the mucous membrane between the glands ; they join to form a plexus of larger vessels near the bases of the glands. From this plexus branches pass off, wdiich, after piercing the muscularis mucosae and forming a wude venous plexus in the submucous tissue, return the blood into subserous vessels wdiich carry it into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, and also directly into the vena portfc. The gastric veins, as well f