591 URINIFEROUS TUBULES The course of the blood in the kidney is peculiar in the fact that that which passes to the Malpighian corpuscles passes from them through a second set of capillaries, to supply the tubules. Course of the uriniferous tubules, and their relation to the blood- vessels.—These tubules can be traced from the papillse into the pyramids proper : they divide dichotomously and thus become multiplied to form a very large number of collecting tubules which course straight and nearly parallel with one another, but slightly diverging, towards the base of each pyramid. Between the collecting tubules are other straight tubules smaller in si25e—the looked tubules of Henle—as well as a large number of blood-vessels which run parallel with the tubules. All these give the medulla an appearance of being streaked along the length of the pyramid from papilla to cortex, and the streaking is still more marked at the base of the pyramid {boundary zone) because the straight tubules of the medulla here become collected into bundles, and between them run many small blood-vessels also collected Fig. 858.—Diagram op the course of the tubules in a uni-pyramidal kidney, such as THAT OF THE RABBIT. (Toldt.) a, Malpighian bodies; 6, first convoluted tubule ; c, d, looped tubule of Henle; e, second convoluted tubule ; /, collecting tube; g, ducts of Bellini. into bundles or pencils. The bundles of medullary tubules are continued into the cortex, and reach nearly to the surface of the kidney, appearing in the cortex as rays, diverging from the base of each pyramid {medullary rays, fig. 858.) These bundles or rays comprise a continuation of the collecting tubes and also of the looped tubes above mentioned, and, gradually tapering off, lose themselves in the cortex. The cortex is distinguished from the medulla by the fact that its tubules—except those of the medullary rays—are closely convoluted, forming what is known as the labyrinth (fig. 860). Through this convoluted mass of tubules there pass, besides the medullary rays, certain radially arranged vessels—arterioles and venules— which run between the medullary rays through the thickness of the cortex. These are the interlobular arteries and veins (figs. 859, 861). The interlobular arteries have relatively thick walls and, at least in the dog, a very complete fenestrated membrane (Mann) (see fig. 525). They carry blood to the cortex from somewhat curved or arched divisions of the renal arterv, which lie between cortex and medulla and are usually stated to give off straight arterioles {arterice rectce) to the