DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS 355 processes to unite with neighbouring cells. At the same time the vacuoles in their interior become enlarged, and coalesce to form a cavity within the cell (fig. 545, a), in which the reddish globules, which are now becoming disc-shaped (fig. 545, h), are found. Finally the cavity extends through the cell-processeS into those of neighbouring cells and into those sent out from pre-existing capillaries (fig. 545, c), but a more or less extensive capillary network is often formed long before the connexion with the rest of the vascular system is established (fig. 546). As has been mentioned already, young capillaries do not exhibit the well-known lines when treated with nitrate of silver, for the difierentiation of the hollowed cells and cell-processes into flattened cellular elements is a subsequent process. The development of capillaries from ‘ vasoformative cells ’ has also been described in the great omentum of the cat and rabbit by Panvier, and of the dog by Hayem ; in the mesentery of the guinea-pig by Nicolaides; in the liver of the sheep-embryo by Kuborn ; in the capsulo- pupillary membrane of embryos of rodents by Leboucq ; and under pathological conditions by Malassez. Other authors {e.g. Spuler, Fuchs, Saxer, Pardi), without impugning the correctness of the observations, believe that the vasoformative cells are remnants of capillary vessels which are undergoing retrogression or atrophic change, the ‘ cells ’ in question representing nodal points in a capillary system in which the connecting vessels have disappeared. Spuler suggests that in many cases the vasoformative cells are still in connexion with existing patent blood-vessels, and that their apparently isolated position is due to a collapse of delicate capillaries which cannot be seen by ordinary methods. But while the possibility of occasional isolation of segments of a capillary system owing to degenerative changes is not denied, there can be very little doubt as to the real existence of vasoformative cells.* Formation by outgrowths from existing* capillaries.—It must not be supposed tbat new capillaries are in every case produced by vasoformative cells, for the common procedure in adult tissues, especially after injuries, consists in a budding of new vessels from older ones. This process is very readily studied in the tails of amphibians and in growing tissues generally. As described above, all blood-vessels are originally formed by mesoderm-cells which become converted into endothelial cells, and it is these which initiate the formation of new capillaries. At the place where a new capillary is about to be formed, an endothelial cell begins to lose its flattened character by giving rise to a solid process which penetrates into the surrounding connective tissue. This projection may occur close to its nucleus or some distance from it (Kolliker, Flemming and may be preceded, accompanied, or followed by a mitotic division of that nucleus. Since it is impossible to demonstrate in actively growing capillaries the outlines of endothelial cells by means of silver nitrate, we must regard the endothelial cell which has undergone nuclear division as part of a syncytium. The solid process thrown out by the cell in question is always, to begin with, destitute of a nucleus ; but very soon one of the nuclei of the syncytium travels into the process, and presently undergoes further mitotic division. By this means the process gradually increases in length, and meets eventually with a similar process thrown out by another capillary. At this time the two capillaries are linked together by a protoplasmic bridge consisting of nucleated but as yet undifferentiated endothelium. This bridge becomes gradually hollowed out by the lumina of the original capillaries extending into it. In this way the cells become channelled out and converted into an endothelial covering. At first only blood-plasma enters the developing capillary, but later the red blood-corpuscles also pass along it. * The recent literature on this subject is given in connexion with the development of the blood- corpuscles. ' Flemming, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxv. 1800. A A 2