VESSELS AND NEKVES 609 the muscular coat, where they form a capillary network; others traverse the muscular coat and form an arterial plexus in the submucosa from which the capillary network of the mucous membrane is derived. The veins form large plexuses around the neck, sides, and base of the bladder ; they eventually pass into the internal iliac veins. They do not accompany the arteries. The plexuses are situated in the submucous coat, in the muscular coat, and underneath the serous coat, but in the region of the trigone there is no distinct plexus in the submucosa. The lym'phatics are confined to the muscular coat and adventitia, except in the region of the trigone, where there is a plexus in the muscular layer of the submucosa. Some lymph-capil- laries are continued into the mucous membrane from those of the ureter. The nervous supply of the bladder is bilateral, each half having its own nerves. On each side the nerves are derived from two sources, viz. :—(a) from the third, the fourth, and sometimes the second sacral nerves: these fibres, which are known as the pelvic splanchnics (Gaskell), consist almost entirely of fine medulla ted nerves, and pass from the sacral spinal nerves (sacral plexus) directly to the pelvic plexus without going through the gangliated cord of the sympathetic ; {b) from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic: these fibres are nearly all non-medullated. They arise from the upper lumbar nerves, and reach the hypogastric plexus through the aortic plexus and the inferior mesenteric ganglion. Both sets unite in the pelvic plexus, which contains numerous ganglia, and the fibres which go from the plexus to the bladder, where they form the plexus vesicalisj are mainly, if not entirely, non-medul- lated. According to v. Zeissl, the pelvic splanchnics supply only the longitudinal fibres of the bladder, but Griffiths found that stimulation of the peripheral cut ends of these nerves produces an effect upon the entire muscular coat on the same side. Stimulation of the peripheral cut ends of the hypogastric fibres causes feeble contraction of the corresponding half of the bladder (Langley); but if the bladder be previously contracted their stimulation causes rapid relaxation (Griffiths). There appears, however, to be some variation in different species of animals in the effects produced by stimulation of the different nerve-fibres according to the predominance of excitatory or inhibitory fibres. * The hypogastric plexus also contains sensory fibres, which probably reach the spinal cord through the twelfth dorsal and first and second lumbar nerves. The nerve-fibres of the bladder pass to ganglia in the adventitia ; these ganglia are most numerous near the base. From the ganglia non-medullated nerve-fibres are distributed to the muscular bundles, amongst which a finer gangliated plexus is formed. There is also a fine gangliated plexus in the submucosa : from this nerve-fibres pass to the muscle-bundles and to the corium. Some make their way into the epithelium, where, after penetrating between the cells for a certain distance, they give off branches which run parallel with the surface; from these offsets terminal filaments pass backwards between the deeper cells (G. Betzius). The following articles on the ureters and bladder may be referred to :—L. Ascholf, Virch. Arch, cxxxviii. 1894 (mucous membrane); A. v. Brunn, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xli. 1893 (gland-like structures) ; Cuccati, Mem. d. r. accad. d. sci. d. Bologna, ix. 1888 (nerve- distribution) ; Disselhorst, Anat. Hefte, iv. 1894 (str. of ureter); A. S. Dogiel, Aa’ch. f. mikr. Anat. XXXV. 1890 (epithelium); Egli, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. ix. 1873 (glands of pelvis); Fenwick, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xix. 1885 (venous plexuses); Gerota, Anat. Anz. xii. 1896 (lym- phatics); Griffiths, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xxv. 1891 and xxix. 1895; Griinstein, Aich. f. mikr. Anat. Iv. 1900 (nerves); Berry Hart, Atlas of Female Pelvic Anatomy, 1884 ; 0. Ham- burger, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xvii. 1880 (pelvis and ureter); London, Arch. f. Physiol. 1881 (epithelium); A. Lendorf, Anat. Hefte, xvii. 1901 (glands, lymphatics and nerves) ; Lubarsch, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xli. 1893 (gland-like structures); Paneth, Wiener Sitzungsb. Ixxiv. 1876 (epithelium); G. Retzius, Biol. Unters. iv. 1892 (nerves); Waldeyer, Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesellsch., Anat. Anz. vii. 1892 (ureter-sheath); Zeissl, Pfliiger’s Archiv., liii. 1893 (nerves of bladder). VOL. II. PART I. R R