670 INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS iliyrin} The colloid is coagulated by most fixing reagents, and may then be stained with hsematoxylin and other basic dyes. Under some circumstances it is not coagulated into a gelatinoid mass, but shows a precipitate after fixation. The vesicles appear to have no basement-membrane (Baber) ; the cells, therefore, are in close relationship with the reticular connective tissue of the gland, and the capillary blood-vessels, which are extremely numerous, and the lymphatics come in almost direct contact with the cells. The colloid may sometimes be detected in the spaces of the reticular tissue and in the lymph-vessels : it appears to pass into them from the vesicles by exuding between the lining epithelium-cells. Both the cells and the contents of the vesicles vary considerably in appearance in glands from different individuals, the variation depending in part upon the general state of nutrition of the animal, and thus indirectly upon the diet,^ in part upon topographical and climatic conditions, the effects of which require further investigation.'^ This is well illustrated in the photographs of thyroid of rat Fig. 964.—Photograph of a section of the thyroid gland of a avild rat. (Chalmers Watson.) Magnified 250 diameters shown in fig. 963 and fig. 964. In fig. 963 the gland-vesicles are shown distended with abundance of colloid material and the cells are relatively flattened. In fig. 964 the cells are more cubical or even columnar, the vesicles are less distended, and there is little stainable matter in their contents. In both these cases the animals appeared perfectly healthv, so that it is not easy to say which appearance is to be accepted as normal. Between these extremes all intermediate conditions are met with in different specimens. Besides such variations,which are common to all the vesicles of a gland, the cells may show individual differences in their staining capacity, and in the number and nature of the granules in their protoplasm.*’ That the granules often 1 See on the iodine-containing material of the thyroid and its relation to the structure and functions of the gland, Marine and Williams and Marine and Lenhart, Arch. f. Int. Med. 1908 and 1909; Reid Hunt, Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc, xlix. 1907 ; Reid Hunt and Seidell, Bull. No. 47 of U.S. Public Health, Marine Hospital Service, Hygiene Laboratory, 1908. ^ Phil. Trans. 1881. ^ E. Schmid, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvii. 1896. ' Chalmers Watson, Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology, ii. 1909. ’ Cf. D. Marine, Cleveland Med. Journ. 1907. G. Galeotti, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlviii. 1897. Cf. also Langendorff, Arch. f. Physiol. 1889, and Hiirthle, PflUger’s Archiv, Ivi. 1894. The changes in the cells as the result of increased activity are also dealt with by W. S. Halstead, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Rep. i. 1891