257 MO'rOU END-ORG-ANS. which do not anastomose (Ranvier). According to Kiihne the branching figure which is formed by the axis-cylinder is composed of an axial part, staining darkly with gold, and a sheath, which remains unstained. Kiihne regarded the axial part as representing the fibrils of the axis-cylinder, but it may be doubted whether the apparent difierentiation into axial part and sheath is not due to the shrinking of the axis-cylinder under the influence of the reagent. The appearance of the two parts in gold preparations is well exhibited in fig. 395. Applied to the branches of the ramification small granular nuclei (fig. 394, n), are seen at intervals ; these nuclei of the arborisation are difierent from the clear nuclei of the bed (n), and also from the flattened nuclei of the sheath which lie immediately under the sarcolemma covering the end-plate, and which resemble the nuclei of the sheath of Schwann of the nerve. The sarcolemma over the situation of the nerve-ending is often slightly raised above the general surface (fig. 393, a). It would appear that in mammals each muscular fibre has but one end-organ, and receives consequently but one nerve-fibre. As, moreover, the fibres of a nerve undergo division, probably repeated division, before ending, it follows that one fibre in a nerve- root or -trunk supplies many muscular fibres. In reptiles and amphibia the longer muscular fibres may have two or more nerve-endings (fig. 398). \ .J102 Fig. 398.—Muscular fibre of frog supplied by two nerve- fibres. (Cajal.) A, nerve-fibre inclosed by neurolemma and sheath of Henle, the latter of which expands to form an investment (a) to the muscle-fibre outside the sarcolemma. b, ending of nerve-fibrils. B, a second nerve- fibre with a somewhat less extensive distribution of its arborescent axis-cylinder. The shape and extent of the terminal ramification of the axis-cylinder within the end-organ vary greatly, not only in different classes of animals, but also in animals belonging to the same class, and there is even some variation in individuals of the same species, as is evident from the various representations of the end-organs of the green lizard, which are here given (figs. 393, 394, 395). On the whole, it may be stated that the terminal ramification is most compact in mammals and reptiles and least so in amphibia (fig. 398), where there is no continuous protoplasmic bed with clear nuclei imbedded in it, and the ramifi- cations of the axis-cylinder are extended over a much larger proportionate area of the fibre than in reptiles, birds, and mammals, so that the termination of the nerve is far less localised. The branches of the axis- cylinder in the frog run for a short distance parallel with the axis of the fibre between the sarcolemma and muscular substance, terminating abruptly by rounded extremities. They have here and there slight enlargements, VOL. IT. PART I. s