THE SPLEEN 40() they are tlieii seen to form a close reticulation through the substance of the spleen. Thus, the capsule, the sheaths of the vessels, and the trabeculae, all of a highly elastic nature, constitute an extensible and contractile framework, containing in its interstices the red pulp. The framework is composed of interlaced bundles of areolar tissue with a large amount of fine elastic tissue, and a few plain muscular fibres. In the spleen of the pig, the dog, and the cat, and to a smaller extent in that of the ox and sheep, there is a more abundant admixture of mus- cular elements. The spleen exhibits a regular rhythmic contractility, contracting and dilating about once a minute.This action is readily increased by drugs and many animal extracts and is also influenced through the central nervous system.^ The pulp of the spleen is of a dark reddish-brown colour : when pressed out from between the trabeculae it resembles clotted blood, and, like that, acquires a brighter hue on exposure to the air. In fact, what is thus pressed out from the Fig. 005.—Section of Spleen, soiuewhat magnified. (G. Mann.) The section was stained, and therefore the Malpighian corpuscles appear darker than the pulp. The venous sinuses show as clear spaces. The larger veins are contained in the trabeculie. dead spleen is mainly clotted blood which fills the interstices of the pulp and the venous sinuses which everywhere pervade it. When a thin section which has been treated with dilute alkali or subjected to tryptic digestion and stained by iron haematoxylin is examined under the microscope, the pulp is seen to be everywhere pervaded by a reticulum of fine fibres continuous with the tissue of the trabeculae (figs. 608, 609). These fibres are in the natural condition covered over and concealed by branched connective-tissue corpuscles. These are of various forms and sizes ; in some parts little but the inter- communicating branches remaining, in other parts the cells being large and flat and in closer connexion. The corpuscles in question, which may be termed the reticulum-cells (fig. 610, c), contain each a round or oval nucleus, like that of a connective-tissue cell; and in teased-out preparations of the fresh spleen-substance it is not uncommon to find within them yellowish pigment-granules of various Koy, Joiirn. Pliysiol. iii. 1881. 1 - Scluifer and Moore, Journ. Physiol, xx. 1896.