SPERMATOZOA 623 «appearance of different parts of the tubules or even in longitudinal sections of the same tubule. Such differences of appearance are represented diagrammatically in bus. 906 and 907. Since the spermatozoa represent the product of the seminiferous tubules and are themselves complete cells the testicle is not a true secreting gland in the same sense as the salivary gland or the kidney, but its cells are bodily passed into the duct after having undergone certain morphological changes. The spermatozoa.—A spermatozoon is composed of a head, middle piece, and tail (fig. 908). The head is formed from the nucleus of the spermatid : it stains intensely with basic dyes. In man it has a flattened oval shape, narrowing in a wedge-like manner towards the free extremity. This extremity is covered by a clear head-cap, derived from the archoplasm of the spermatid by a process of vacuolation (fig. 904) ; the head-cap is not distinguishable in the fully formed spermatozoon of man. The middle piece is formed from the cytoplasm of the spermatid or at least from a part of the cytoplasm ; the greater portion either breaks away or becomes atrophied. In some animals it is encircled by a spiral fibre de- veloped from mitochondria (Benda, fig. 903); this fibre is not distinct in the human spermatozoon. The middle piece contains a centrosome from which a fine cilium-like filament ex- tends into the tail. The tail in the human spermatozoon is a fine tapering filament; the terminal part is some- what suddenly narrowed {end piece). The fibril from the centrosome extends throughout the tail. Sometimes there are two or more fibrils, and in some animals there is a membranous fringe along the tail. The average length of the human ' spermatozoon is from 50 p to 60 p; the head being about 4"5 /x and the middle piece about the same or a little more. In breadth the head measures about 2-5 p and in thick- ness 1 ‘5 p\ the middle piece is less than 1 /X in diameter. The tail is about ten times the length of the head (45 p). Fig. 908.--Human spermatozoa. (Bi-oman.) Highly magnified. a and h represent spermatozoa in face, in different foci of the microscope; c and d, in profile view. Great variations in size, in the shape of the head and in the details of structure of the sperma- tozoa are found indifferent species of animals (see fig. 909). EvenMn the same animal it is common to find more than one kind of spermatozoon ; some, much the fewer in number, being far larger than the rest {giant spermatozoa). This holds true for man as well as for most animals investigated. The larger spermatozoa in man are as much as 75 /u in length, and