682 INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS these trabeciilfe arc well marked and anastomose, leaving rounded loculi between them {zona glomerulosa) ; in the succeeding and largest zone of the cortex {zona jasciculata) the trabeculae take a parallel course through the cortex running verti- cally to the surface, but they become broken up as they approach the more central part of the gland, and here they have a reticulated arrangement {zona reticulata). The glandular substance follows the general arrangement of this connective-tissue framework. When the adrenal is cut across in the fresh condition it is readily seen to be composed of two parts (figs. 984 to 986 and accompanying Plate): a cortical part of a yellowish appearance which forms the main mass of the organ Fig. 985.—Vertical section of supba- RENAL BODY; HUMAN. (Ebei’th.) Mag- nified. 1, cortical substance; 2, medullary sub- stance: a, capsule; &, zona glomerulosa; c, zona fasciculata ; cl, zona reticularis; e, groups of medullary cells; /, section of a large vein. Fig. 986.—Section dog’s SUPRARENAL a, fibrous covering; h, zona glomerulosa OF THE CORTEX OF THE (Bblim and v. Davidoff.) c, zona fasciculata ; d, zona reticularis. and exhibits the three zones above enumerated, and a medulla of a dark red colour (due to the blood in its venous sinuses) occupying the centre of the gland. If the section is made from a gland hardened by a salt of chromic acid the medulla is of a yellowish-brown colour (see the upper figure of the accompanying Plate) ; in either case it contrasts with the much paler tint of the cortex. The brown coloration is due to the action of chromic acid upon the secreting cells of the medulla, and has given rise to the term chromaffin or chroma'phil to characterise these cells.* Chromaphil cells are not confined to this situation, but are found in a more scattered form in certain other bodies which occur in various places in the abdomen and pelvis, and resemble the medulla of the adrenals in being developed ^ Also termed jdueochroiiiocijtes.