STOMACH 528 The epithelial cells of the surface of the stomach (fig. 764) differ in some respects from the columnar epithelium of the intestine. They are more elongated in form, and in inactive conditions of the organ they exhibit two parts, the attached end of the cell being granular, the free part—that turned towards the cavity of the organ— occupied by a clear, muco-albuminous substance (mucigen). There is no distinct striated border as in the intestinal cells. The clear substance swells and is dis- charged from the cell during digestion, leaving empty the part of the cell which contained it; a similar change is produced by water and various other re-agents. The cells are in fact all mucus-secreting cells (goblet-cells). According to Carlier they are connected laterally by protoplasmic bridges. Between the smaller ends of these cells, small round or oval cells occur, sometimes in nests (Watney). G-lands.—As was first shown by Sprott Boyd, the surface of the mucous a Fig. 765.—Section of human stomach near the cardia. (v. Ebner, after J. Scbaffer.) Magnified 45 diameters. c, cardiac glands ; d, tlieir ducts; cr, glands similar to crypts of Lieberkiihn, with goblet- cells; mm, mucous membrane; muscularis mucoste ; muscular tissue within mucous membrane. membrane of the stomach is dotted with small round apertures, which are the openings of minute glandular tubules, placed perpendicularly to the surface. On making a vertical section of the membrane, and submitting it to microscopic ex- amination, it is seen to consist almost entirely of these small tubules, arranged parallel with each other (fig. 761). Each mouth or duct, together with the tubules which open into it, constitutes a gastric gland. Some of the glands may be simple, consisting of a single tubule throughout, but most are cleft into two or three tubules, or even, by the branching of these, into four or six. The glands have externally a basement-membrane, composed of flattened cells joined edge to edge ; these cells have processes which on the one side join the retiform tissue of the mucous membrane, and on the other side, more delicate, extend in amongst and support the enclosed epithelium-cells. Three kinds of glands are distinguishable in the mucous membrane of the stomach: they are, respectively, the glands of the cardia, the glands of the fundus, and the glands of the fyloric canal.