MID-ERA IN 309 been seen in the pons ; those of the third nerve pass ventrally to emerge, for the most part on the same side, opposite the situation of the substantia nigra, not far from the middle line. A well-marked feature of this part of the brain—seen also in the pons—is a longitudinal white bundle which runs on each side, just ventral to the central grey matter close to the middle line. This is the dorsal longitudinal bundle (figs. 480, 482, f.l.h.); its fibres originate from cells in the reticular formation of the pons and medulla oblongata (from the cells of Deiters’ nucleus amongst others), and crossing the raphe divide on the opposite side into ascending and descending branches. These either end in or send collaterals to all the motor nuclei in succession from the oculo-motor down to the ventral-horn cells of the Fig. 480.—Section acboss the mid-beain, thbough the postebiob cobpoba quadbigemina. (Schafer.) gr, median groove ; c.q.p.^ posterior tubercle; c.gr., central grey matter; n.III, IV, oculo- motor nucleus; d.V., descending motor root of fifth nerve; p.l.b., posterior or dorsal longitudinal bundle; f.r.t., reticular formation of tegmentum; d, d', decussating fibres of tracts in tegmen- tum; s.c.p., decussation of superior cerebellar peduncles;/., main fillet;/', lateral fillet; str.l., superficial layer of fillet over tubercle; pp., pes pedunculi; s.n., substantia nigra; g.ip., interpeduncular ganglion ; Sij, aqueduct of Sylvius. lower part of the spinal cord. In the cord they form part of the ventro-lateral descending fibres, collaterals from which pass freely into the ventral horn. The dorsal longitudinal bundle receives an accession of fibres from a nucleus in the upper part of the mid-brain close to the uppermost limit of the bundle; this nucleus is known as the nucleus of the dorsal longitudinal bundle. Ventral to the dorsal longitudinal bundle in the mid-brain is a less defined longitudinal white bundle, known as the ventral longitudinal bundle. Its fibres are also traceable down into the ventro-lateral column of the cord, and also com- municate with the motor nuclei: they are believed to arise from cells in the opposite anterior tubercle of the mid-brain, but the cells from which they originate are not