477 SWEAT-GLANDS SWEAT-GLANDS. The sudoriferous g-lands or sweat-g-lands are for the most part situated below the cutis vera, at variable depths in the subcutaneous adipose tissue (figs. 661 and 662). To the naked eye they have the appearance of small round reddish bodies, each of which, when examined with the microscope, is found to consist of a tube, coiled up into a ball (though sometimes forming an irregular or flattened figure). From the gland proper the tube is continued, as its duct, upwards through the true skin and cuticle, to open on the surface by a slightly widened orifice. The secreting tube (ampulla) is considerably larger than the duct, and also has a wider lumen (fig. 692). The duct, as it passes through the epidermis, is twisted like a corkscrew in parts where the epidermis is sufficiently thick to give room for this (figs. 653, 661) ; lower down it is straight or but slightly curved. Sometimes the duct is formed of two coiled-up branches which join at a short distance from the gland. The tube, both in the gland and Fig. 692.—Section of a sweat-gland in the skin of man. (Schafer.) a, a, secreting tube in section; b, a coil seen from above; c, c, efferent tube; d, inter- tubular connective tissue with blood-vessels. 1, basement-membrane; 2, muscular fibres cut across; 3, secreting ej)ithelium of tubule. where it forms the excretory duct, has a vascular investment of connective tissue,, reaching no higher than the surface of the true skin; within this investment it consists of a thin membrana propria and an epithelial lining. The epithelium in the gland proper is formed of a single layer of cubical or columnar cells (often con- taining brownish pigment) and, in the duct, of two or more layers bounded next the lumen by a fine cuticular lining. The epithelium of the duct is continuous with the epidermis ; the twisted part of the duct is merely a channel excavated between the epidermis-cells. Between the epithelium and the basement-membrane, in the proper secreting portion of the gland, is a layer of longitudinally and obliquely disposed fibres which are generally described as plain muscular fibres, although the physiological evidence of their muscular nature is not conclusive. They vary in amount. In smaller glands the layer is incomplete, and in the smallest the fibres may be altogether lacking. On the other hand, in the large glands which occur in the axilla, at the root of the penis, on the labia majora, and in the neighbourhood of the anus, the layer of muscular fibre-cells is very well marked. According