149 MINUTE STEUCTURE OF LAMELL.Iil Ziamella-fiibres (decussating* fibres) of Sharpey.—If the thinnest part of a detached shred or film be examined, as shown in figs. 235 and 237, it will then appear plainly that the lamellse are largely made up of transparent fibres, often decussating with each other in adjacent lamellse. In the Haversian systems these fibres cross one another in different lamellae at right angles (v. Ebner), but in most other situations at more or less acute angles, and they are united here and there by obliquely passing fibres, so that they caiinot be teased out from one another ; at the torn edge of the lamella they may often be seen separate for a little way, standing out like the threads of a fringe. Most generally they are straight, as represented in fig. 235; but they are not always so; for in some parts they are wavy (fig. 237). Dilute acetic or hydrochloric acid causes these fibres to swell up and become indistinct, like the white fibres of connective tissue; care must therefore be taken in their examination that the remains of such decalcifying acid be removed from the tissue, by maceration in water or in solutions of neutral salts. Moreover, the fibrous structure is not equally distinct in all parts ; in some places it is less decidedly marked, as if the fibrillation were incompletely developed. These fibres, which constitute the lamellae, were discovered by Sharpey,^ and their constant presence was taught by him for many years before they were acknow- ledged by other histologists. It has since been shown by v. Ebner that the lamella- fibres of Sharpey are themselves composed of fine fibrils, so that they correspond with small bundles of white connective- tissue fibres rather than with single fibres. Like the connective-tissue fibrils, these of the bone are doubly re- fracting, and they are ^aid by v. Ebner not to be calcified, the calcareous matter being confined to the matrix in which they are imbedded, so that in calcined bone they are destroyed and their place is occupied by fine tubules. As already stated, they sometimes take different directions in successive lamellae, so as to produce a granular or a striated appearance according as they happen to be cut transversely or longitudinally (fig. 236). In thin sections of bone, the lines or rather bands which represent the cut edges of the lamellae show the section of the lamella-fibres as round or angular dots, themselves punctated, which lie imbedded in the ground-substance h ( a- I ( h Fig. 236.—Small pabt of a longitudinal section OF decalcified tibia, (v. Ebner.) Highly magnified. a, series of six lamellee which are cut for the most part in the direction of the fibrils, so that they a,ppear longitudinally striated; h, h, lamellae, the fibrils of which are cut across ; the arrangement of the fibrils into bundles is indicated. Two lacunae are seen lying between the lamellae, also canaliculi piercing the lamellae. Fig. 235.—Thin layer peeled off FROM A SOFTENED BONE, AS IT APPEARS UNDER A MAGNIFYING POWER OF 400 DIAMETERS. (Sharpey.) This figure, which is intended to represent the fibrous appearance of the la.mellae, gives abetter idea of the object when held rather farther off than usual from the eye. Quain’s Anat., 5th edition, 1845. The discovery of these fibres is often attributed to v. Ebner (Wiener Sitzungsb. Ixxii. 1876), to whose descriptions we owe many facts regarding their arrange- ment and structure. Sharpey did not fully distinguish between the finest fibrils and the small bundles into which they are collected, but in all other points his account of the fibrous structure of the lamellae was very complete. - Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxix. 1887.