259 AFFERKN'r NFRVK-KN1 )ING8. Tello.' The motor nerve-fibres reach the developing muscular fibre before the appearance of the sarcolemma and make contact with the muscle-substance, the nuclei of which are accumulated, tot^ether with a considerable amount of protoplasm, at tlie site of formation of the end-organ. ^Tcllo found degeneration to begin twelve to fourteen hours after section: the degenerated remains are relatively soon absorbed, as compared with the rest of the nerve-fibre. In a young rabbit the regenerating fibres were found to reach the muscle two and a-half months after the operation, and on reaching the ‘ bed ’ to become ramified. The protoplasm and nuclei of the end-plate do not undergo degeneration : they are probably instrumental in absorption of the degenerated nerve-ending. Nerve-ending’s in secreting’ g’lands.—The nerves to secreting glands and to secreting epithelium in general belong to the autonomic system, and leave the central nervous system as fine mediillated fibres which end in the ganglia of the Fig. 401. — Ending of nerve-fibrils AMONGST THE CELLS OF THE SUB- MAXILLARY GLAND OF A DOG. Golgi method. (G. Retzius.) Fig. 402.—Nerve-fibrils ending over capillary blood- vessels AND AMONGST THE EPITHELIUM-CELLS OF A convoluted tube of the frog’s kidney. (Smirnow.) sympathetic chain or in peripheral ganglia. From the cells of these ganglia non-medullated fibres continue the chain and pass to their distribution amongst the cells of the glandular epithelium. Here they divide into fine varicose branches each representing not more than a single nerve-fibril, and these fibrils penetrate between and partly enwrap the secreting cells, to which they are closely applied, but apparently without entering them (figs. 401, 402).'^ The nerve-fibrils are very fine and varicose. The lumen of the alveolus is also stained black and its extension into the crescents of Gianuzzi is shown. TERMINATIONS OF AFFERENT NERVES.” The sensory or afferent nerves end either in cells or in free nerve-endings, which may be simple or plexiform, and may be enclosed by cells or connective tissue, or have an independent distribution. Of the sensory nerves which terminate in cells, the best recognised are those which are found in the organs of special sense. But some of these nerves may be regarded as taking origin in the sense-organ rather than ending in it, for if their development is studied it would appear, in the case of the olfactory and visual organs, that the nerve-fibres grow from the sense-organ towards the central nervous system and not centrifugally, as is the case with most other nerve-fibres. In the other sense-organs the nerve-terminations are not within, but between the sense epithelium-cells. ' Travaux du laboratoire de Cajal, v. 1907. For the nerve-endings in different secreting glands, see E. Miiller, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xl. 1890 (gastric glands and pancreas); G. Retzius, Biol. Enters, iii. 1892 (salivary); P. Korolkow, Anat. Anz. vii. 1892 (salivary); A. S. Dogiel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlii. 1893 (lacrymal); H. J. Berkeley, Johns Hopkins Hospital Rep. v. 1894 (salivary). ^ For an account of the literature of sensory nerve-endings, which is very extensive, the reader is referred to the articles by Kallius which have appeared from time to time in the Ergebnisse der Anatomie of Merkel and Schwalbe. The most recent account of the literature of the special tactile organs such as Meissner’s corpuscles. Pacinian and Herbst corpuscles, and Grandry’s corpuscles, will be found in a paper by E. Van de Velde, Int. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Physiol, xxvi. 1909.