418 SEROUS MEMBRANES the serous under the ■ membrane the mem- perforation of the cells covering it, so as to allow of a free communication between the two sides of the fold of membrane. In the thicker parts of a serous membrane, the ground-substance contains blood-vessels and lymphatics, often with lymphoid and adipose tissue ; besides connective-tissue corpuscles with their corresponding cell- spaces (fig. 547), which in the serous membranes are very often collected into endothelium-like patches. In parts of the membrane in which the connective- tissue cells are more thinly scattered, they possess branching processes, some of which intercommunicate with those of neighbouring cells: others may pass up to the surface of the membrane as pseudo- stomata and others again become con- nected to the walls of the lymphatics and blood-vessels. In the human subject, membranes are bounded epithelium by a basement (Bizzozero). The blood-vessels of brane end in a capillary network with comparatively wide meshes, which per- vades the subserous tissue and the tissue of the serous membrane. The vessels are much more numerous in the nodules and tracts of lymphoid tissue (see below) as well as in the adipose tissue, which is found largely developed in the serous membranes of fat animals. The lymphatics of the serous mem- branes are abimdant. Their relation both to the cell-spaces of the tissue and to the surface of the membrane, as well as their general arrangement, has been already noticed (p. 356). Nodules of lymphoid tissue may occur in the substance of the serous membranes, but they are never sharply circumscribed. More generally the lym- phoid tissue takes the shape of elongated tracts which follow the course of the small blood-vessels, receiving from the latter branches which divide to form a capillary network. Lymph-vessels run in these tracts alongside the blood-vessels, and often partially enclose them. These lymphoid nodules and tracts are more numerous in the young animal ; in the adult their place is frequently taken by lobules and tracts of adipose tissue. The nerves of serous membranes are partly destined for the blood-vessels and for the most part accompany these in their course. Some fibres, however, are distributed to the substance of the membrane, in which they form a plexus with large meshes : from the branches of this plexus fibres may be traced which unite Fig. 620.—1. Epithelium from the posterior PART OF THE FROG’s PERITONEUM, SHOWING • THREE STOMATA LEADING INTO THE CISTERNA LYMPHATiCA MAGNA, (v. Ebner, after Schweig- ger-Seidel and Dogiel.) 2. A PORTION OF EPITHELIUM FROM THE PERITONEAL SURFACE OF THE RABBIT’S DIAPHRAGM. ThREE PORES ARE VISIBLE BETWEEN THE EPITHELIUM-CELLS, (v. Ebner, after Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel.) Fig. 621.—Section of pleura ox. (Favaro.) Magnified 270 diameters. e, endothelium; m, substance of membrane with numerous elastic fibres; h, hypo-pleura; I, lymph-vessel.