476 UAIES meatus ; here they are closely associated with the ceruminous glands, which, although secreting a fatty material, are modified sweat-glands (see p. 479). The sebaceous glands here penetrate much more deeply than usual into the cutis vera and may even reach the subcutaneous tissue. The Meibomian glands of the eyelids are to be regarded as modified sebaceous glands, although they do not open into hair-follicles. Development of the sebaceous g-lands.—The rudiments of the sebaceous glands sprout like little buds from the sides of the hair-follicles ; they are, in fact, at first excrescences of the external root-sheath (fig. 686, 5-), and are composed Fig. 690.—Replacement of old haik by a newly DEVELOPING ONE IN THE HUMAN SCALP. (Ranvier.) p, papilla of the new hair; i, its inner root-sheath; e, its outer root-sheath continuous above with that of the old hair,7?'; r, epithelial iirojection at the level of the insertion of the arrector pili, m. Fig. 691.—Longitudinal section of a SEBACEOUS gland FROM THE CHEEK, WITH A SMALL HAIR GROWING THROUGH ITS DUCT. (Toldt.) entirely of similar cells. Each little process soon assumes a flask-shape and the central cells become occupied by fat-particles. This fatty transformation of the cells extends along the axis of the pedicle until it penetrates through the root- sheath, and the fat-cells thus escape into the cavity of the hair-follicle, and con- stitute the first secretion of the sebaceous gland. They are soon succeeded by others of the same kind, and the little gland is established in its office. Additional saccules and recesses, by which the originally simple cavity of the gland is com- plicated, are formed by budding out of its epithelium, in the same way as the first saccule was produced from the epithelial root-sheath. The cells of the sebaceous glands form not only granules of fatty material, but also of eleidin (keratohyalin), and part of the cell-substance eventually undergoes keratinisation.’ ' B. Rosenstadt, Iiiternat. Monthly Journ. Anat. ami Physiol, ix. 1892.