EPITHELIUM 541 The muscular tissue within the villus was discovered by Briicke ; it consists of small bundles of plain fibre-cells disposed longitudinally around the lacteal; on being stimulated in the living condition it produces an obvious retraction of the villus. This muscular tissue is a prolongation from the muscularis mucosge. The fibre-cells at the sides and towards the end of the villus pass from the lacteal to be attached to the basement-membrane (fig. 780, m.m.) ; usually their attachment to this is forked (Watney). There is considerable variation in different animals in the amount and distribution of muscle-fibres in the villi (see figs. 785, 786).' Columnar epithelium-cells (fig. 782 and figs. 785 to 788) cover not only the villi but also the rest of the surface of the intestine, and extend into the tubular glands. Their general characters have already been described under ‘ Epithelium ’ (pp. 85 to 88).'^ The cells are set upon the surface of the basement-membrane, often by a somewhat flattened extremity. There is never any continuity between their attached extremity and the branched corpuscles of the retiform tissue of the villus, such as has often been supposed to exist ; on the contrary, the epithelium separates with the greatest readiness from the subjacent tissue, and almost always with a simple truncated extremity, sometimes pitted but never much branched. Between the epithelium-cells are leucocytes in variable number, but most numerous in the lower part of the intestine and near the lymphoid nodules. They are often seen in considerable numbers between the columnar cells and the basement- membrane. Amongst the ordinary epithe- lium-cells are mucus-secreting cells (fig. 789), the outer half of which is fijled with mucigen; in some this has become discharged as mucus from the cell, and the free end is ruptured {gohlei-cells, figs. 790, 791). The number of cells secreting mucus varies much in dif- ferent animals, and perhaps under different conditions in the same animal. There are comparatively few in the glands of the small intestine. In addition to their secretory function the epithelial cells are the primary agents in promoting the absorption of digested food-materials from the interior of the gut, and the seat of some of the processes of metabolism which the products of digestion undergo during absorption. Most food-materials cannot be traced in microscopic specimens, but fats, from their insolubility in the watery cell-contents and their property of becoming stained with certain dyes, can be to some extent followed. Fats appear to be absorbed only after having been broken down into fatty acid and Fig. 784.—Vertical section of the intestinal MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE RABBIT. (Slightly altered from Frey.) Magnified 150 diameters. Two villi are represented, in one of which the dilated lacteal alone is shown, in the other the blood-vessels and lacteal are both seen injected, the lacteal white, the blood-vessels dark; a, the lacteal vessels of the villi; a' horizontal lacteal, which they join; b, capillary blood-vessels in one of the villi; c, small artery; d, vein ; e, the epithelium covering the villi; g, tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkiihn, some divided down the middle, others cut more irregularly ; i, the submucous layer. ’ On the muscular tissue of the villi see Trautmann, Anat. Anz. xxxiv. 1909. Other details relating to the structure of the small intestine will be found in the Dissertation of the same author, Zurich, 1907. - On the special structure of the intestinal epithelium see Kulschitzky, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlix. 1897, and M. Ileidenhain, Plasma und Zelle, 2te Lieferung, 1911.