345 CAPILLAKIES Fig. 529.—Branched contractile CELLS ENCIRCLING A CAPILLARY OF THE HYALOID MEMBRANE OF THE FROG. (From Tigerstedt, after Rouget.) tlielium, but their walls are partially beset by specially modified cells, the ‘ stellate cells ’ of v. Kupffer ; these possess phagocytic properties. Where they are absent the blood comes in direct contact with the liver-cells. The vessels of the hepatic lobules are, however, not true capillaries, but sinusoids (see page 347). In the capillaries of the Fallopian tubes and in those of the uterus during gestation, the flattened endothelium-cells are replaced by cuboidal cells. In capillaries which have been submitted to the action of silver nitrate, there is here and there to be seen between the cells of the capillary wall an increase in amount of the intercellular substance, appearing as an enlargement of the fine line of the silver deposit. To these gaps in the capillary wall J. Arnold has applied the term ' stigmata ’ ; they are analogous to the ‘ pseudostomata ’ found between the endothelial cells of a serous membrane, and are doubtless artifacts. Besides these stigmata the white blood- corpuscles, when migrating from the blood-vessels and passing between the endothelial cells, give rise to the appearance of minute openings, the margins of which are stained by silver nitrate. Capillaries may lie in direct contact with the most diverse tissues : thus, in the case of the palate of the frog, capillaries send diverticula between the epithelial cells; in Lophius, minute capillaries run right through the large ganglion-cells ; in heart- muscle, and also in striped muscle, they lie in very close relationship to the contractile elements. In areolar tissue, branched cells of the surrounding areolar tissue are found connected intimately with the cells forming the capillary wall. This connexion occurs almost everywhere, but it is more obvious in parts which are pervaded by a supporting network of reticular connec- tive tissue, such as the sub- stance of the lymph-glands, the solitary and agminated glands and adjacent intestinal mucous membrane, where the small vessels and capillaries may even obtain a continuous covering from the reticulating processes of the cells. This coating was named by His, adventitia ca'pillaris. A B Fig. 530.—A living capillary vessel. A, previous to excitation ; B, showing maximal contraction as the result of excitation. (From Tigerstedt, after Steinach.) One type of eapillary recpiires special mention — namely, that found in the hyaloid membrane of the frog’s eye, lying between the vitreous humour and the retina— for the capillaries and larger blood-vessels in this situation possess no nerve-supply, and yet are contractile, as first surmised by Rouget and subsequently proved by S. Mayer. The capillaries here are peculiar in being surrounded by branched cells, the branches of which run right round the endothelial tube, and by their contraction diminish the lumen of the vessel (see fig. 529). The stimulus for contraction in this instance, and to a certain extent also in the following one, is perhaps given by alterations in the chemical composition of the blood-plasma. i\n actual diminution in the calibre of capillaries devoid of all non-striped muscle-fibres is readily seen in the nictitating membrane of the frog, if examined with its inner surface uppermost; also in those of the perioesophageal lymph-sac. By appropriate stimulation of the nerves of the part, or by applying electrodes to the margin of the preparation, a fully dilated capillary will frequently be seen to pass through all stages of partial contraction, until it ultimatel}^