523 (ESOPHAGUS become mixed with the cross-striped ; at the lower end of the tube the tissue is wholly formed of plain muscle. In a portion of the large intestine (caecum, colon) the longitudinal muscle-layer is thickened along the course of three bands, which extend from end to end of this portion of the gut and which are somewhat shorter than the rest of the longitudinal fibres. The effect of this is to produce puckerings in the wall, which are of a permanent character and give a sacculated appearance to the part. In the oesophagus, stomach, and large intestine the surface of the mucous membrane is smooth, and when these parts are distended they exhibit no folds or prominences on the inner surface (other than the puckerings just mentioned as occurring in the colon and its caecum), although when empty the mucous membrane may display the efifaceable folds known as rugcB. But in the small intestine the whole of the mucous membrane from the pylorus to the ileocaecal valve is beset with fine tongue- or finger-shaped prominences known as intestinal villi, and a large portion of the small intestine also shows on its inner surface prominent ineffaceable transverse folds of the mucous membrane known as valvulce conniventes, themselves covered by villi. THE (ESOPHAHUS OP GULLET. The walls of tlie gullet are composed of three coats : viz. an external or muscular, a middle or areolar, and an internal or mucous coat (see accompanying Plate). Outside the muscular coat there is a layer of areolar tissue, with well-marked elastic fibres. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal layer (fig. 759, h) and an internal circular laijer (c). This twofold arrangement of the muscular fibres prevails, as just stated, throughout the whole length of the alimentary canal; but the two layers are here much thicker, and more evident than in any other part of the alimentary tube, except quite at the lower end of the intestine. The external or longitudinal fibres are disposed at the commencement of the gullet in three bands, one in front and one on each side. The lateral bands are continuous above with the inferior constrictor of the pharynx; the anterior arises from the back of the cricoid cartilage at the prominent ridge between the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles, and its fibres spread out on each side of the gullet as they descend, soon blending with those of the lateral bundles to form a continuous layer around the tube. The direction of many of the fibres is at first slightly oblique, but to- wards the lower end it is more directly longitudinal. The internal or circular fibres are separated above by the fibres of the lateral longitudinal bands from those of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The rings which they form around the tube have a horizontal direction at its upper and lower part, but in the inter- vening space are slightly oblique. At the lower end both layers of fibres become continuous with the muscular layers of the stomach. The muscular coat of the upper end of the oesophagus is of a well-marked red colour, and consists wholly of striped muscular fibres ; these, as already mentioned, are gradually replaced by plain muscular fibres, so that plain fibres are almost the only ones found in the lower half of the tube. A few striped fibres may, however, be found even at the lower end, and in some animals they preponderate through- out the whole length of the tube. * The longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus are sometimes joined by a broad band of smooth muscle, passing from the left pleura, and sometimes also by another from the left bronchus. According to Cunningham, the former is almost constantly present, and the latter very frequently. The areolar or submucous coat is placed between the muscular and mucous coats, and connects them loosely together. In it are contained the mucous glands (fig. 759, h), which open on the mucous membrane. ^ (Dn the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus see Coakley, Researches from the Loomis Laboratory, Univ. of the City of New York, 1892.