EPITITELIUM 94 the surface, we find the component cells becoming more flattened and larger, whilst at the same time in some epithelia, such as that covering the skin, they undergo a change in their chemical constitution, so that at first the external part, and afterwards the whole of the protoplasm of the cell, is converted into horny substance {keratin), even the nucleus being at last involved. The conversion into horny substance is preceded by the deposit of a fluid material in droplets, which is termed eleidin (Ranvier). In the epidermis and some other parts the cells in which this material is first deposited form a layer of fiat granular-looking cells, spindle-shaped in section, which is situated between the soft, still protoplasmic, deeper cells and the more superficial horny stratum (fig. 155). The layer is termed stratum granulosum, and was described by Langer- hans. The eleidin forms larger drops as the cells are traced towards the surface, stratum corneum stratum luciclum ^stratum ^ \ granulosum I ^ ^ 55 (j; a. ® ® f' V? 'f A. \if ^ ‘li’' n .(i»© ‘ij » . ^■S' ^ ^ rete mucosum cutis vera Fig. 15G.—Vektical section through the skin of the p.almar side of the finger, SHOWING TWO PAPILL.E • (ONE OP WHICH CONTAINS A TACTILE CORPUSCLE) AND THE DEEPER LAYERS OF THE EPIDERMIS. (Schiifer.) Magnified about 200 diameters. and loses its faculty of being stained with hoematoxylin and basic dyes, being- changed into a homogeneous-looking substance which has been termed heratohyalin ^ (Waldeyer). This gives the cells which it occupies a clear appearance, and they collectively form a layer, which is known as the stratum lucidum. Superficial to this is the true horny layer {stratum corneum). The cells of stratified epithelia not infrequently show the presence of pigment- granules, not only in the coloured races of mankind, but in certain parts of the epidermis of white races. It is not certain whether this pigment is formed in the cells where it occurs or is brought there by leucocytes. The presence of wander-cells ' The terms ‘eleidin’ and ‘ keratohyalin ’ are sometimes employed as synonyms, but it is better to retain the one for the granular phase, and the other for the clear phase of the keratogenous substance.