372 THE BLOOD in a given volume of blood. The amount of haemoglobin is estimated by diluting a sample of blood with a known quantity of water, and comparing the tint of the solution so obtained with that of a solution of haemoglobin of known strength. A convenient means of quickly obtaining an idea of the amount of haemoglobin in a sample of blood is afforded by the Gowers-Haldane haemoglobinometer, which is arranged on the above principle. Structure of the erythrocytes of the lower vertebrata. — The corpuscles of oviparous vertebrates differ from the mammalian corpuscles not only in their shape but also in the possession of a nucleus (figs. 556, 557). This is rather more than one-third the length of the corpuscle, but in the natural unaltered condition is visible with difficulty, owing to the fact that it possesses very nearly the same index of refraction as the rest of the corpuscle. The corpuscle is other- wise composed, like that of the mammal, of an envelope enclosing fluid coloured contents. The effect of most reagents on the erythrocyte of ovipara is similar to that produced on the mammalian corpuscle. Hypertonic solutions of salt cause a manifest wrinkling of the envelope. Water causes both corpuscle and nucleus to swell up, the coloured part being eventually discharged. A dilute solution of acetic acid in an indifferent fluid also causes dis- charge of the colouring-matter, but the nucleus is shrunk and rendered very distinct (fig. 562, 3); if strong acetic acid be employed, the nucleus often acquires a reddish tint from deposition of hsematin upon it. Alkalies, on the other hand, even when very dilute, rapidly dissolve both corpuscle and nucleus. Various reagents cause the coloured part of the corpuscle to become partly withdrawn from the envelope, and collected around the nucleus; this is especially the case with a solution of boric acid, which when mixed with newt's blood may eventually cause the coloured matter and nucleus (the so-called ‘ zooid ' of Bruecke) * to be altogether extruded from the rest of the corpuscle (‘ oecoid'). The envelope of the erythrocyte of oviparous vertebrates is much thicker and more distinct than that of mammals. In some forms it appears to be strengthened by a band of fibrils Avhich extends round the circumference of the ellipse (fig. 563, A), just within the rounded angle formed by the junction of the biconvex surfaces of the corpuscle.These fibrils can also be seen in sections across the corpuscle (fig. 563, B).^ The nucleus of the erythrocyte of ovipara resembles an ordinary cell-nucleus. It contains a close chromatin network (fig. 564). The erythrocytes of the adult appear to have lost the power of cell-division, but in larval amphibians mitotic division of the erythrocytes is frequent, and forms one of the best objects for the study of the process (see fig. 79, p. 47). According to Bryce, a centrosome only ' makes its appearance at the commencement of karyokinesis : it may, however, be present beforehand, concealed within the nucleus. The view that the erythrocyte, both of mammals and oviparous vertebrates, is composed of a solid jelly-like stroma permeated with hsemoglobin was until recent years almost universally held, and the colourless portion, after extrusion of the hjemoglobin solution, is still often spoken 1 Wiener Sitzungsb. 1807. 2 Meves, Anat. Anz. xxiii. 1903; xxv. 1904; xxvi. 1905; and xxviii. 1906. See also A. Smirnow, ibid. xxix. 1900. Meves describes besides the circumferential fibrils a peculiar radial marking at the margin of the erythrocytes of some amphibia. The appearance of circumferential fibres has been also noticed by Dehler in the bird (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvi. 1895), by M. Heidenhain in Proteus, and by Nicolas in reptiles and amphibians. ^ T. H. Bryce, Trans. Boy. Soc. Edinburgh, 1904. Fig. 562.—Bed corpuscles of the frog (From Wagner.) Magnified 500 diameters. 1, shows their broad surface; 2, one seen edgeways; 3, shows the effect of dilute acetic acid ; the nucleus has become distinct.