VITAL PHENOMENA OF PROTOPLxASM 66 show a streaming of the granules in their protoplasm in an outward direction along the one side of a pseudopodium and in the opposite direction along the other side, which is very like the so-called ‘ rotation ’ phenomenon in the protoplasm of plant-cells. Intake of foreig-n particles. — When any kind of foreign particle comes in contact with the protoplasm of an amoeboid cell, the particle adheres 1. 2. 3 4. Fig. 107.—Changes of form of a white corpuscle of newt’s blood, sketched at INTERVALS OF A FEW MINUTES. ThE FIGURES SHOW ALSO THE TAKING IN OF TWO SMALL GRANULES, AND THE CHANGES OF POSITION WHICH THESE UNDERWENT WITHIN THE CORPUSCLE. (Schafer.) to it, becomes enwrapped by processes of the protoplasm, and is then drawn gradually into the interior, where it may remain for some time without change, being moved about by any currents which exist in the cell, and carried along by the changes of place which the cell undergoes (see fig. 107). Eventually such foreign particles may be extruded again. If, on the other hand, the particle is of considerable size as compared with the protoplasm with which it comes in contact, the latter extends around and over it so as to envelop it more or less completely (fig. 108). This phe- nomenon of inception is thus dependent upon amoeboid move- ments of the protoplasm. The object of the phenomenon is clear in the case of animalcules, since their protoplasm has the power of digesting and assimilating suitable organic materials which may be taken in in this manner. Such materials are either dissolved withm the body by a secretion containing digestive enzymes which accumulates around them in the form of vacuoles, or, in the case of Heliozoa, they may be digested in the pseudopodia them- selves (fig. 109), and the digested products niaj^ alone be carried into the cell-body. But the digestive power of leucocytes is not of this pronounced character: indeed it has been doubted whether they can digest solid particles at all. Certainly granules of starch and globules of fat may be observed within them without undergoing any apparent change in the course even of hours. But there is abundant evidence that some leucocytes (phagocytes) attack and break down tissues of all kinds which are destined to be absorbed, and this is probably by a process of digestion. There is also strong evidence that they attack and devitalise bacteria and bacilli of disease, and thus tend to exercise a protective infiuence upon the body (Metchuikoff). Fig. 108.—Living phagocytic leucocyte of Salamandra EXTENDING AROUND AN ERYTHROCYTE OR RED BliOOD- CORPUSCLE. Photographed prom a fresh prepara- tion OF SALAMANDER BLOOD. (Schiifer.) 600 diameters. Four other erythrocytes are seen in the photograph. Magnified