DEVELOPMENT 507 tlie germ develop processes, fluid being at the same time secreted between them. The result is the formation of a reticular tissue, having to the naked eye the appearance of a jelly, to which the name of cnamd-pulp has been applied (fig. 739, SP). The more peripheral cells do not participate in this change, but remain polyhedral or become cubical and flattened {outer enamel-epithelium) ; they pass gradually into the long columnar prisms that invest the papilla. These prisms are the cells which form the enamel-fibres; they also determine by their presence the production of dentine by the superficial cells of the papilla. They are termed the enamel-cells or amelohlasts ; they form the memhrana adamantincB of Purkinje. The whole epithelial dental germ thus transformed is known as the enamel-orcjan {organon adamantines). Y y.ii ^,-y, n M yjrrt A./i >< ■-, , h^i0 ;»Sy,>4y:i WM. en" erd d. en Fig. 739.—Section of the first milk incisor op a human embryo 30 centimetres long. Frontal section through lower jaw. (Rose.) DK, tooth-pulp ; d, odontoblasts; a, bone of the alveolar process of the jaw; m, en', inner and outer layers of the enamel-organ; SP, enamel-pulp; df, dental furrow; e, mouth- epithelium ; d I, remains of dental lamina; b, cell-bridge, connecting this with tooth-germ; r, reserve germ for the permanent tooth; en", germ of second milk incisor cut obliquely. These changes begin in the milk-incisors at about 14 weeks. At about 20 weeks (embryo of 24 cm.) the first traces of calcification are visible in the form of a simul- taneous deposit of enamel and of dentine upon the crown of the central incisors. The outer enamel-epithelium now begins to grow into the surrounding connec- tive tissue in the form of epithelial sprouts, and before long there seem to be breaches of continuity between these sprouts ; but, according to Rose, the enamel-pulp is never invaded by vascular connective tissue, as has been sometimes described. In the meantime changes have been occurring in the dental papillae. These are composed at first of undifierentiated mesoderm ; but their more superficial cells— those which are immediately in contact with the columnar epithelium of the special dental germs—early become elongated, and by their distal end abut against that epithelium, whilst the other end is tapered, and may be branched like the other cells