288 NERVE-ENDlNdS base of the spiral lamina (fig. 454). They pass through channels in the bony sub- stance of the spiral lamina and enter the organ of Corti below the inner hair-cells. Some of them end amongst these, others pass across the arch or tunnel formed by the rods of Corti, and end amongst the outer hair-cells. In both cases the ending is a fibrillar arborescence of the axis-cylinders, the sheaths ceasing on entering the organ of Corti. The central axons of the bipolar cells of the spiral ganglion pass into channels within the central bony axis [columella) of the cochlea, and from these they are collected to form the cochlear division of the auditory nerve, which passes along with the vestibular division within the internal auditory meatus to enter the lateral aspect of the upper part of the medulla oblongata at its junction with the pons (see p. 302, and Neurology, p. 149). Ending' of the olfactory nerves.—The olfactory organ shows the primitive type of ending of special-sense nerves in its least altered condition. Here the cells which receive the sensory impression and which transmit the consequent nervous impulses to the central nervous system are situated at the periphery between the ordinary epithelium-cells of the olfactory mucous membrane. This membrane, which in primates and some other mammals (anosmatics) occupies only a comparatively small area at the uppermost part of the nasal passages, is much Fig. 457.—Cells of olfactory mucous MEMBRANE. (M. Schultze.) 1, From the frog ; 2, from man. a, sustentacular cell; h, olfactory cell; c, its peripheral process; d, its nerve-fibre process; e, hairlets. Fig. 458.—An olfactory cell, human. (V. Brunn.) h, cell-body ; p, peripheral process ending at c in hairlets, h; n, nerve-fibre process. more extensive in most mammals (osmatics), in which a large part of the highly convoluted turbinate bones is covered by it. The epithelium of the mem- brane consists partly of columnar sustentacular cells (fig. 457, a), branched at the fixed end and terminating at the free end by a cuticular margin, partly of special olfactonj cells (figs. 457 and 458, h) which lie between and are supported by the columnar cells, and which at their fixed or central end are continuous, in the form of delicate axons, with nerve-fibres (olfactory nerve-fibres). These pierce the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone and enter the dilated extremity [bulb) of the olfactory