SECEETING GLANDS 430 show a narrow lumen, which is continuous with the brandies of the hepatic duct, and the liver at this stage is a tubular gland with anastomosing tubules (fig, 635). In certain fishes, in amphibians and in some reptiles, the trabeculae are hollow from the first, and in cyclostomes the arrangement is precisely that of a tubular gland, the tubules being separate and not joined into a network. (See Embryology, Vol. I. pp. 173-175.) Arrangrement of blood-vessels, lymphatics and connective tissue.— In all glands, with the exception of the liver, the alveoli are supplied with nutrient plasma through the medium of the lymph which bathes the exterior of each alveolus and penetrates the basement-membrane to reach the cells which line it. This nutrient plasma is exuded from the blood-vessels of the gland, which form a capillary network in each lobule between and around the alveoli, but nowhere coming in contact with the basement-membrane, and nowhere, therefore, except in the liver, penetrating between the secreting cells. Capillaries are also distributed to the gland-ducts, and to the connective-tissue framework.' The blood-vessels and lymph-vessels Fig. 635.—From a chromate of silver preparation of the Ln"ER of a six months’ fcetus. (G. Eetzius.) The bile-canaliculi are represented black. It is seen that at this stage of develop- ment they do not anastomose. They appear to give minute offsets, which end between and within the liver-cells in small enlargements. are supported by connective tissue (fig. 636), which penetrates into the lobules of the gland between its alveoli, and is found in larger amount between the lobules, binding them together, in some cases firmly and in others loosely, to form the whole mass of the gland. The connective tissue of glands is closely allied in its character to reticular tissue. It forms a close reticulum around the alveoli and ducts, coming into connexion with their basement-membranes. The smallest lobules are united by it into larger ones, and these again into still larger, a peculiar ‘ lobulated " appearance being in consequence exhibited by the gland both super- ficially and on dissection. Moreover, it is seen on unravelling the gland that the lobules are held together not only by the connective tissue and blood-vessels which penetrate between them, but also by their ducts, wliich are continually joining one another as they pass towards the main duct, much in the same way as the individual grapes of a bunch are held together by the junction of the smaller stalks into larger ones, and these eventually into the main stalk. The lymphatics form a network of cleft-like spaces in the connective and reticular tissue of glands ; their efferent vessels for the most part accompany the blood-vessels. ^ J. M. Flint, Amer. Journ. Anat. ii. 15)03.