432 SECllETING GLANDS Nerves.—It has been shown for many glands, and is probably true for most, that both the blood-vessels and cells of the gland are provided with nerve-fibres. The nerves to the blood-vessels are of two kinds—viz. : nerves which cause constric- tion and nerves which cause dilatation ; in this way the blood-supply is com- Fig. G38.—Alveoli of the submaxil- LAKY GLAND OF THE DOG. (G. Ketzius.) Golgi method. The extensions of the lumen into the crescents of Gianuzzi are shown, and also the endings of nerve-fibrils. Fig. 687.—Membrana propria of two ALVEOLI OF a RACEMOSE GLAND. (v. Ebner.) Magnified 600 diameters. pletely controlled through the nervous system. In some glands these differently acting vascular nerves take altogether different paths to reach the gland. Thus the submaxillary gland and the salivary glands generally are supplied with vaso- constrictors through the cervical sympathetic, and with vaso-dilators through one of the cranial nerves; in the case of the submaxillary and sublingual these arise with the facial and pass to those glands with its chorda tympani branch ; in the case of the parotid they arise with the glosso-pharyngeal and reach the gland through the tympanic plexus, otic ganglion, and auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth nerve. The nerves wliich pass to the secreting cells are also of two kinds—at least this has been shown to be true for the salivary and some other glands. Those of the one kind (trophic fibres) chiefly cause, when excited, an increased formation of the products of secretion within the cells ; these nerve-fibres, although not identical with the vaso-constrictors, reach the salivary glands along the same path. Those of the other kind cause a rapid discharge of secretion from the gland (secreting fibres) : they are found in the case of the salivary glands to take the same path as the vaso-dilator fibres. The nerves which pass to the alveoli may be seen, in appropriately stained specimens, penetrating as fine branching fibrils between the secreting cells (fig. 638).' Secretory canaliculi.—It has long been known (see p. 569) that the bile is collected from the liver-cells by extremely fine canals which penetrate from the ’ On tlie nerve-termiuiitions in glands see Ketzius, Biol. Unters. iii. 1892 ; C. Huber, Journ. Exper. Med. 1. 1896. Fig. 639.—Alveoli of human sublin- gual GLAND PREPARED BY GoLGI METHOD. (E. Muller.) Z, lumen stained, with lateral diverti- cula passing between mucus-secreting cells; h, longer diverticula penetrating into the ‘ crescent ’ cells.