188 CAKTILAGE White fibro-cartilagc occurs in various situations as follows : 1. Forminy inter articular discs. These are interposed between the moving surfaces of bones, or rather of articular cartilages, in several of the joints. In the joint of the lower jaw and in that of the clavicle the}'^ have the form of round or oval plates, growing thinner towards the eentre ; in the knee-joint they are curved in form of a sickle, and thinned away towards their concave free edge. In all cases their surfaces are free ; while they are fixed by synovial or fibrous membrane at their circumference or extremities. The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged for a short distance upon these fibro-cartilages, from their attached margin.* 2. As marginal fihro-cartilages. The articular cavities of bones are sometimes deepened and extended by means of a rim or border of fibro-cartilage. Good examples of these are seen in the shoulder and hip-joints, attached round the lip of the articular sockets. In the joint of the lower jaw, the cartilage lining the glenoid cavity is also largely fibrous. 3. As symphysial fihro-cartilages. These connect the adjacent surfaces of bones in joints which do not admit of gliding motion, as at the symphysis of the pubis and between the bodies of the vertebrae. They have the general form of discs, and between the vertebrae are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue with cartilage-cells and matrix interposed ; the fibrous tissue predominating at the circumference, the cartilaginous tissue increasing towards the centre. Fig. 223.—Section of fibro-cabtilage from intervertebral disc. Photograph. (Schafer.) Magnified 200 diameters. 4. As vaginal fibro-cartilages lining the bony grooves in which tendons of muscles glide. 5. Forming small nodules [sesamoid fibro-cartilages) in the substance of tendons, of which there is an example in the tendon of the peroneus longus, and another in that of the tibiahs posticus, where it passes beneath the head of the astragalus. White fibro-cartilage appears under the microscope to be made up of wavy fibres, like those of ordinary ligament, with cartilage-cells occupying the place, and often simulating the arrangement, of the tendon-cells. As in elastic fibro- cartilage, the cells are immediately surrounded by a part of the matrix which is free from fibres (fig. 223). As a general rule they resemble the cells of ordinary cartilage, having a rounded shape, although somewhat flattened where the bundles of fibres are closely packed. In the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, some of the cartilage-cells are provided with ramified processes extending some distance beyond the cell-body (fig. 224). * It has been stated by several authors that the interarticular discs are formed of fibrous tissue only, without any intermixture with cartilage. This statement is, hov/ever, incorrect. In all cases (jaw, clavicle, and knee) there are unmistakable rows and groups of cartilage-cells enclosed in capsules between the bundles of white fibres