TJIE CONNECTIVE TISSUES 102 CONNECTIVE TISSUES. The connective tissues include areolar, fibrous, and elastic tissue, reticular {rctijorm) and lymphoid tissue, adipose tissue, cartilage, and hone. They agree in certain microscopic characters and also in taking origin in the looser part of the mesoderm, which has been termed mesenchyme (see p. 4), but they present many differences in the characters of their cells, which may be fibril- lated or granular, or occupied by pigment or by fat; as well as in the arrangement and relative proportion of their tissue elements, and in certain special chemical characters. Their general character is the possession of a comparatively large amount of intercellular material, which constitutes a matrix or ground- substance through which fibres course ; the cells lie scattered singly or in groups in this ground-substance, spaces in which they may be said to fill. The ground- substance and the fibres which it contains are stained brown by Recklinghausen’s Fig. 168.—Aeeolar tissue pbepabed by Recklinghausen’s silver method. (Schiifer.) Magnified 200 diameters. The cells are seen as clear spaces in the (brown) stained ground-substance, through which the fibres course. silver-nitrate method (seep. 5), which leaves the cells and therefore the cell-spaces white (see figs. 168, 169 and accompanying Plate); where the cells are in contact with one another the white spaces which appear in a silver-stained specimen give the appearance of intercommunicating channels in the gTound-substance. When first seen by Recklinghausen this appearance was not fully understood, since it was not known that the spaces thus brought to view are all occupied by cells, and the term ‘ lymph-canaliculi ’ (Saft-kanalchen) was applied to the supposed channels ; they are now more commonly spoken of as the cell-spaces of the tissue (fig. 169).' The ground-substance of connective tissue is naturally soft and semi-fluid in nature. It contains a mucin-like material, which forms, in the young condition of the tissue, its chief organic constituent. But, later, as fibres become developed ' This term was first employed to designate Recklinghausen’s ‘ Saft-kaniilclien ’ in the 8th edition of tliis work.