HAVERSIAN CANALS AND LAMELLH] 145 Fig. 229. CANAL, -Section of a SHOWING ITS Haversian CONTENTS. Haversian canals.—The compact tissue is also full of holes ; these, which are very small, may be seen by breaking across the shaft of a long bone near its middle and examining it with a common magnifying-glass. Numerous little round apertures (fig. 228, a) are then visible on the broken surface, which are the openings of short longitudinal passages running in the compact substance, and named the Haversian canals, after Clopton Havers, an English physician and writer of the seventeenth century, who more especially called attention to them. Blood-vessels run in these canals, and the widest of them also contain marrow. They are from *025 mm. (^oVi^th inch) to T25 mm. inch) or more in diameter ; there are some no more than *0125 mm., but these are rare ; the average are about *05 mm. (s^oth inch). The wider are met with nearest the medullary cavity, and the narrower towards the circumference of the bone. They are short, as may be seen in a longitudinal section, oblique communications connecting them freely both longitudinally and laterally. Those which are next the circum- ference of the bone open by minute apertures on its external surface, and the innermost ones open widely into the medullary cavity ; so that these short channels collectively form a sort of irregular network of tubes running through the compact tissue, in which the vessels of that tissue are lodged, and through the medium of which these vessels communicate together, not only along the length of the bone, but from its surface to the interior through the thickness of the shaft. The canals of the compact tissue in the other classes of bones have the same general characters, and for the most part run parallel to the surface. The Haversian canals contain small blood-vessels, often two in number, arterial and venous (fig. 229), together with a small amount of delicate connective tissue containing branched cells, which are flattened close to the bone, and communicate by their branches with the ramifications of corpuscles in the substance of the bone. Ziamellar structure.—On viewing a thin transverse section of a long bone with a microscope of moderate power, especially after the earthy part has been removed by acid (fig. 228 b ; fig. 230), the opening of each Haversian canal appears to be surrounded by a series of concentric rings. This appearance is occasioned by the transverse sections of concentric lamellce which surround the canals {Haver- sian lamellce). The rings are not all complete, for here and there one may be seen ending between two others. In some of the sets, the rings are nearly circular, in others oval—differences which depend on the direction in which the canal happens to be cut: the aperture, too, may be in the centre or more or less to one side, and in the latter case the rings are narrower and closer together on the side towards which the aperture deviates. Again, some of the apertures are much lengthened, and the lamellae surrounding them have a corresponding disposition. Besides the lamellae surrounding the Haversian canals, there are others disposed conformably with the circumference of the bone (fig. 228 b ; fig. 230, -pi); most of these are near the surface, but others run between the Haversian sets, by which they are VOL. II. PART I. L (Schiifer.) Highly magnified. a, small arterial capillary vessel; V, large venous capillary ; n, pale nerve- fibres cut across; I, cleft-like lymphatic vessel: one of the cells forming its wall communicates by fine branches with the branches of a bone-corpuscle. The sub- stance in which the vessels run is con- nective tissue with ramified cells; its finely granular appearance is probably due to the cross-section of fine fibrils.