115 VESSELS AND NERVES OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE incomplete membrane, or of a complete membrane with holes or fenestrae in it and with elastic fibres connected with its surfaces. This is the so-called fenestrated membrane of Henie (figs. 188, 189). Fig. 188.—Elastic network OP ARTERY. (Toldt.) Fig. 189.—Portion of fenestrated MEMBRANE FROM THE FEMORAL ARTERY. (Henie.) Magnified 200 diameters. a, b, c, perforations; d, a fold in the membrane. The cells of elastic tissue resemble those of areolar tissue, but they are relatively fewer in number and are chiefly of the lamellar variety. VESSELS AND NERVES OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Blood-vessels, lymph-vessels, and nerves are everywhere conveyed in the areolar tissue to the places where they are to be distributed, but very few blood- capillaries are destined for the tissue itself, although abundant lymphatic networks are present in many parts ; especially in the subcutaneous, subserous, and sub- mucous tissues. In some places—e.g. serous membrane, subcutaneous tissue, connective tissue around joints—the areolar tissue is richly supplied with sensory nerve-endings of difierent kinds. These, although situated in the areolar tissue of the part, are concerned not especially with the sensibility of this tissue but with that of the organ of which the tissue forms a part. They will be described later. Fibrous tissue receives blood-vessels, but in general they are inconsiderable both in number and size compared with the mass of tissue to which they belong. In tendons and ligaments with longitudinal fasciculi, the chief branches of the vessels run parallel with and between the larger fasciculi, and, sending communicating branches across them, eventually form a very open network with large oblong meshes.’ Some fibrous membranes, as the periosteum and dura mater, are much more vascular ; but the vessels seen in these membranes do not strictly belong to them, being destined for the bones which they cover. Lymphatics are contained in great abundance, as Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel showed, in the enveloping areolar-tissue sheaths of tendons and aponeuroses, where they form plexuses with polygonal meshes. In addition to these, a close network of lymphatic vessels with elongated meshes may be injected in the deeper parts of the tendons, where they run in the penetrating areolar tissue. Sometimes, as in the central tendon of the diaphragm, lymphatic spaces separate the tendon-bundles from one another. A connexion, although not an open one, exists between these lymph- atics and the cell-spaces of the fibrous tissue. The lymphatic vessels of the tendons are partly concerned in the removal of lymph from the skeletal muscles, which themselves lack true lymphatic vessels.