NEKVE-ENDINGS. 272 tactile discs. The tactile cells and discs are enclosed in a common capsule of connective tissue continuous with the perineurium of the nerve. From the capsule incomplete septa pass inwards between the flattened cells, as far as the edges of the tactile discs so that the septa look as if they were perforated to receive the discs. Usually a single nerve-fibre passes to each corpuscle, and this may either lose its medullary sheath on entering the corpuscle or may retain it for some part of its course, although it eventually, in any case, becomes lost. The axis-cylinder, passing between the capsule and the tactile cells, divides into as many branches as there are tactile discs; in which, as already mentioned, it finally terminates. Within each tactile disc it breaks up into a large number of fibrils, which accord- ing to Dogiel penetrate into the adjacent cells. Dogiel also describes a second medullated fibre ending in a pericellular network within the capsule.' When degeneration takes place as a result of the section of the nerve, the degenerative process extends not only to the tactile disc but also to the cells which cover it. c Fig. 428. — Merest corpuscle of duck. (Sobotta.) Magnified 880 diameters. n, medullated nerve-fibre; a, its axis- cylinder ending in enlargement at end of core ; c, nuclei of core-cells ; t, nuclei of outer tunics ; t', inner tunics. Fig. 429.—Key-Eetzius corpuscle in OPTIC.A.L LONGITUDIN.A.L SECTION. Bichromate preparation. (W. Krause.) h, outer layer; c, i, concentric lamella? of capsule ; n, terminal nerve-fibre. According to Izquierdo, these corpuscles are developed as a result of the multi- plication and down-growth of some of the epithelium-cells which lie at the apex of a papilla (fig. 427, c). The growth becomes entirely cut off from the rest of the epithelium and surrounded by connective tissue, whilst the cells within it are converted into the flattened ‘ tactile cells,' and a prolongation of a nerve-fibre grows up into it. According to Szymonowicz,^ the cells of both Grandry s and Herbst’s corpuscles are of connective-tissue origin. Corpuscles of Herbst (fig. 428).—These, which form the principal mode of nerve-termination in the bird’s skin, and are also very abundant in the mucous membrane of the duck’s palate, are in structure similar to large cylindrical end- bulbs. They have a core consisting of nucleated cells, which are disposed traiis- > A. S. Dogiel aud Willaneu, Zeitscbr. f, wiss. Zool. Ixvii. 1900; A. S. Dogiel, Arch, fi Aunt. 1891, and Anat. Anz. xxviii. 190r>. See also Geberg, lut. Mouatsclir. f. Anat. u. Physiol, x. 1898. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Auat. xlvii. 1897.