475 SEBACEOUS GLANDS follicle ; they multiply and are gradually converted into a new hair with its root- sheath, just as in the primitive process of formation in the embryo. According to some authors the new hair may be developed in connexion with the old papilla ; others believe that in all cases a new papilla is formed and that the old one under- goes atrophy, thus resembling the changes which accompany the formation of the permanent teeth. Ultimately the newly formed hair grows towards the mouth of the follicle and protrudes from the surface of the skin, where it may be seen alongside of the club-hair which it is to — replace. i When a hair is pulled out the process of regener- * ation does not, according to Giovannini, begin imme- diately, but only after an interval of from 6 to 12 weeks. The cells at the bottom of the follicle then exhibit active karyokinesis, migratory cells containing pigment appear amongst them, and changes similar to those which occur in the normal process of formation of the hair are observed. SEBACEOUS GLANDS. The sebaceous grlands (see Plate, p. 463 and fig. 691) are small saccular glands most of which pour out their secre- tion at the roots of the hairs. For, with very few exceptions (labia minora and eye- lids, and, in some individuals, at the red margin of the lips, near the angle of the mouth), they open into hair-follicles, and are found wherever there are hairs. Each has a short wide duct, opening within the mouth of the hair-follicle. Traced back- wards the duct leads to a cluster of small rounded secreting saccules, which are almost filled by epithelium-cells (fig. 691) loaded with particles of fatty substance. The saccules possess a basement-membrane, out- side which is a covering of connective tissue. The deeper cells multiply constantly and, becoming filled with fatty granules, pass towards the centre of the alveolus. Here they undergo disintegration, and the fatty and other substances with which they are charged form the secretion of the gland, which is discharged by the duct into the mouth of the hair-follicle. The number of saccular recesses connected with the duct varies from four or five to twenty ; it may be reduced to two or three, in very small glands, or even to one, but this is rare. The sebaceous glands are lodged in the substance of the corium. They are usually placed on the side to which the hair slopes, in the angle formed by the junction of the arrector pili with the hair, so that when the muscular fibres contract they tend to compress the gland. Several may open into the same hair-follicle. Their size is not regulated by the magnitude of the hair ; some of the largest being connected with the fine downy hairs on the alee of the nose and other parts of tlie face (fig. 691). There are large sebaceous glands in the skin of the external auditory Fig. 689.—Longitudinal section thbough THE FOLLICLE OF A CLUB-HAIR, THE ROOT OF WHICH IS UNDERGOING ABSORPTION. (Schiifer.) Magnified 200 diameters. A new papilla has become formed at the bottom of the follicle.