651 FOKMATION OF GKAAFIAN FOLLICLES epithelium-cells which surround it. Along with the enlargement of the primitive ovum its nuclear chromatin undergoes a succession of remarkable changes (Wini- warter, Lane-Claypon), already alluded to (p. 54) as the syna'ptic changes, and common both to these cells of the ovary and to the spermatocytes of the testis. At the termination of these changes, the meaning of which is not fully understood, the chromatin resumes the reticular form of the ordinary resting nucleus, although its amount is small relatively to the size of the nucleus (fig. 948). On the other hand the nucleolus, which may disappear in the synaptic stage, is now very large and distinct, and is not uncommonly formed of a number of masses of nucleolar substance of varying size. The ovum, although still small, has the general structure of the mature egg-cell before it undergoes the mitotic changes which result in the formation of the polar globules (see p. 51); it may now be regarded as a fully formed ovarian ovum. It is surrounded by only a single layer of follicular epithelial cells, but these are beginning to become columnar. They presently undergo proliferation and give rise to a second layer, so that there is now a double stratum of epithelium-cells within the follicle (fig. 949, D, E), one immediately surrounding the ovum and the other lining the wall of the follicle, which by this time is beginning to be differentiated from the general ovarian stroma. The two strata form the begin- nings respectively of the discus proligerus and the membrana Fig. 947.—Peimitive ovum subbounded Fig. 948.—Pbimitive Gbaafian follicle of babbit SUBSEQUENT TO THE SYNAPTIC CHANGES OP THE OVUM NUCLEUS. (Winiwarter.) Magnified 1700 diameters. BY A SINGLE LAYEB OF CUBICAL POL- LicuLAB CELLS. (Van der Stricht.) The cytoplasm of the ovum shows a centrosome and numerous mitochondria. The ovum, which contains a nucleus with re- ticular chromatin and the cytoplasm of which is filled with granules, is surrounded by a single layer of flattened follicular epithelium. granulosa ; but they are at first everywhere in contact with one another. By this time also a distinct membrane—the commencing zona radiata—has begun to appear around the ovum, and a basement-membrane (hyaline layer) may be seen lining the theca interna. Both discus proligerus and membrana granulosa become thickened by further proliferation, and the ovum and Graafian follicle grow pan passu with such prolifera- tion. Presently fluid begins to make its appearance at one place between the two strata, and gradually increases in amount. This is the liquor folliculi, which, without doubt, is secreted by the cells of the membrana granulosa, and upon the accumulation of which chiefly depend the subsequent growth of the follicle, and in all probability its eventual distension and bursting. Occasionally two and very rarely three ova are developed in one Graafian follicle in the human subject.