UTERUS 660 Blood-vessels, lymphatics and nerves.—The arteries are derived from the upper terminal branch of the uterine artery; there are also anastomotic branches from the internal ovarian artery. The veins are in communication with the uterine and ovarian veins, and form a close plexus along the line of attachment of the tube to the broad ligament. Here also the efferent lymph-vessels are found accompanying the blood-vessels : they pass towards lymph-glands in front of the aorta and vena cava.' Both blood- and lymph-vessels are distributed abundantly to the mucous membrane; the layers of the muscular coat have each a special capillary plexus. The nerves are furnished from the branches which pass to the uterus and ovaries : they are distributed in large measure to the muscular coat, but also to the mucous membrane, and filaments have been traced even into the epithelium.^ THE UTERUS. The uterus is composed of the fundus, which is the name given to the part above the entrance of the Fallopian tubes, the body or main part, and the cervix or neck, which opens at the os uteri into the vagina. The walls of the uterus consist of an outer serous covering derived from the peritoneum, an inner mucous membrane, and an intermediate muscular layer (see upper figure of accompanying Plate). muscular layer.—The thick middle part of the wall of the uterus is mainly composed of plain muscular fibres of small size, 0.23 mm. in length in the unimpregnated uterus, but much longer in the gravid state (fig. 958). These fibres interlace closely; they are disposed in bundles and layers, and are intermixed with areolar tissue, containing a large number of blood-vessels and lymphatics, and some nerves. The areolar tissue is more abundant near the outer surface. The arrangement of the muscular fibres is best studied in the uterus at the full period of gestation, in which the bundles become augmented in size. They may be referred to three sets, of which the two more external correspond with the muscular coat of other hollow viscera, whereas the internal is an immensely hypertrophied muscularis mucosce. The external layer of the muscular coat forms a thin superficial sheet immediately beneath the peritoneum, and incomplete strata situated more deeply. A large pro- portion of these fibres, beginning as longitudinal bands at the cervix, arch trans- versely and obliquely over the fundus and adjoining part of the body of the organ, and pass on each side into the broad ligament. Some of them converge at either side towards the commencement of the round ligaments, along which they are in part prolonged to the groin; others pass off to the Fallopian tubes, while strong transverse bands from the anterior and posterior surfaces are extended into the ovarian ligaments. Other fibres run back from the cervix uteri beneath the utero-sacral folds of the peritoneum. The inner layer of the muscular coat, which is also thin, is composed of fibres found chiefly on the back of the uterus; these stretch over the fundus and towards the sides, running somewhat irregularly between the ramifications of the blood-vessels. The muscular coat proper seldom exceeds 6 mm. in total thickness, but it is not easy to assign its limits exactly, for there is little or no submucous areolar tissue forming a distinct coat, as in most of the hollow viscera. But the place of ramification of the blood-vessels before they pass into the mucous membrane serves to determine the boundary between the muscular layer of the mucous membrane and the muscular coat proper (J. Williams). The mucous membrane of the uterus is characterised by the enormous hyper- trophy of the muscular layer proper to it—the muscularis mucosce just described ; indeed this forms the greater part of the thickness of the uterine wall. The ^ Poirier in Traite d’anatomie, 1895. - v. Gawronsky, Arch. f. Gynlik. xlvii. 1894.