BONE 154 penetrate to the cavities of the spongy part, in which they ramify; and a considerable artery goes to the marrow in the central part of the bone. In the long bones this medullary artery, often, but improperly, called ‘ the nutritious artery,' passes into the medullary canal, near the middle of the shaft, by a canal' running obliquely through the compact substance. The vessel, which is accompanied by one or two veins, then sends branches upwards and downwards in the middle of the marrow ; from these branches arterial capillaries pass radially towards the periphery. The comparatively narrow arterial capillaries pass suddenly at the periphery of the marrow into wide venous capillaries, which form a close network of large channels throughout the medullary tissue, so that the current of blood must be considerably retarded both in these and in the large thin-walled veins. The ramifications of the medullary artery anastomose with the arteries of the compact and cancellated structure ; indeed, there is free communication between the finest branches of all the vessels which proceed to the bone, and no strictly defined limit between the parts supplied by each. In the thigh-bone there are frequently two medullary arteries entering at different points. The veins of the cancellated texture are peculiar and deserve special notice. Their arrange- ment is best known in the bones of the skull, where, being lodged in the diploe or spongy texture between the outer and inner compact tables, they have received the name of the diploic veins. They are large and numerous, and run separately from the arteries in canals formed in the cancellated structure, the sides of which are constructed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the admission of branches from the adjoining cancelli. Being thus inclosed and supported by the hard structure, the veins have exceedingly thin coats. They issue from the bone by special apertures of large size. A similar arrangement is seen in the bodies of the vertebrse, whence the veins come out by large openings on the posterior surface. In the long bones numerous apertures may be seen at the ends, near the articular surfaces ; some of these give passage to arteries, but the greater number, as well as the larger of them, are for the veins of the cancellated texture, which run separately from the arteries. According to Hoyer - and Rindfleisch ^ the venous capillaries and veins of the red marrow have incoinplete walls, or rather are channels bounded only by the medullary parenchyma, so that the blood-corpuscles which are being formed from marrow-cells can readily get into the circula- tion. Langer,'* on the other hand, found the vascular system of the marrow to be a closed one. In birds this is certainly the case according to the testimony of Bizzozero and of Denys, but in mammals it is doubtful if the vascular walls are everywhere complete. The blood coming from the marrow contains a larger number of leucocytes than ordinarj' blood, and sometimes nucleated coloured corpuscles (erythroblasts) occur in it. Iiymphatics.—In addition to the lymphatics in the periosteum (which have already been mentioned), there are others in the Haversian canals accompanying the vessels (fig. 229,1), and often partially or wholly enclosing them (perivascular).^ The lymph or plasma of the blood is enabled to penetrate the hard bony substance by means of the lacunse and communicating canaliculi. The fine nerves which may be seen entering the bones along with the arteries are probably chiefly destined for those vessels ; it is not known whether any end in connexion with the cells of the bony tissue itself. As far as can be judged from observations on man and experiments on the lower animals, the bones, as well as their investing periosteum, are scarcely if at all sensible in the healthy condition, although they are painfully so when inflamed. ^ On the nutritive canals of bones, see Schwalbe, Zeitschr. f. Anat. i. 1870. ^ Ccntralbl. f. d. med. Wiss. 1869. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xvii. 1879. Wiener Denkschr. 1876 and 1877. ^ Budge, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiii. 1877