58 FUNCTIONS OF NUCLEUS FUNCTIONS OF THE NUCLEUS OTHER THAN THOSE CONNECTED WITH CELL-DIVISION. That the metabolic processes within the cell are dependent upon the presence of the nucleus is shown by experiments upon unicellular organisms in which various observers (Nussbaum, Hofer, Verworn, and others) have substantiated the fact, first discovered by Brandt, that if such organisms are separated into two or more parts, the nucleated fragments continue to live and become regenerated into complete organisms, whereas, although the non-nucleated fragments may survive for a time—even for hours or days—and may show movements and even take in food-particles, they have no power of digestion or assimilation and show no con- structive metabolism, so that the remainder of the organism is not regenerated; eventually such non-nucleated fragments always die.‘ A well-known instance of the loss of vitality which results from the severance of a part of a cell from the nucleus is furnished by the Wallerian degenera- tion of a severed nerve-fibre. In this case there is a mutual reaction between cell-process and nucleated cell-body, for the severance of the fibre, while on the one hand producing the degeneration just mentioned, on the other leads to metabolic changes in the cell-bodv which are also of a destructive character. The influence of the nucleus upon cell-metabolism is also illustrated by the fact that the nucleus is relatively large or is more abundantly provided with chromatin in cells which are obviously undergoing chemical changes of an active character. This is notably exemplified in the actively secretory cells of the silk-glands of caterpillars ^ and in certain large cells which are found in the ovary of insects (fig. 94) which prepare nutriment for the developing ova. In these the nucleus forms a ramified structure occupying a large part of the cell. In other cells (fig. 95) it may send amoeboid processes into the part of the protoplasm where the food- granules are forming.^ And in growing cells, as in those which are dividing, the nucleus is found in the part of the cell where the metabolic activity is presumably greatest. Further, in some growing cells, e.g. in neuroblasts (fig. 96), it has been noticed that chromatin makes its appearance in the proto- plasm near the nucleus on the side where the cell-growth is proceeding most actively, and it is suggested that the chromatin has been formed within the nucleus Fig. 94. — Extbemity of ovaby Fobficula. (Korschelt.) n, n', n", nutrient cells; o, developing egg-cells. OF ’ On the other hand, an absolutely bare nucleus has also apparently no recuperative power; a cytoplasmic environment seems an essential condition of its activity (Verworn ; Pfliiger’s Arch. li. 1891). It must be added that this is not universally conceded, some authorities holding that such nuclei may exist independently, and that they may produce cytoplasm and become complete cells. There is, however, always a difficulty in deciding that the nuclei in question are absolutely bare, and unless special means are taken by the use of specific protoplasmic stains to determine this point, the fact that a thin layer of protoplasm cannot be detected is not sufficiently convincing evidence of its absence. For a discussion of this question, see Ruzicka, in Ergebn. d. Anat. xvi. 1906. On the question of nuclear functions, see Adami, ‘ The Dominance of the Nucleus,’ Brit. Med. Assoc. Toronto, 1906 (reprint); Carlier, ‘ Nuclear Activity,’ Birmingham Med. Rev. 1907. ^ G. Gilson, La Cellule, vi.; E. Korschelt, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlvii. 1896; F, Meves, ibid, xlviii. 1897. 3 See inter alios Korschelt, Zool. Jahrb. 1889. ^ Scott, Toronto Studies, 1899.