95 8TRATIFIEI) EPITHELI UM containing pigment in the corinm below such coloured parts has been noted in the normal skin by Kolliker ' and has also been observed in connexion with the dark patches in Addison’s disease, but it cannot be determined whether these are bringing pigment or taking it away.^ Fig. 157.—Section of epidermis of cat’s foot showing fibrils bridging across the INTERCELLULAR SPACES. (KoloSSOW.) The deeper layers of a stratified epithelium are not closely applied to one * another by their edges, nor are they united by cement-substance, but there exists a system of intercellular channels, which are bridged across by fibres which run from one cell to the other (see figs. 156, 157). When the cells are isolated, the fibres are broken through and appear as spikes or dentations on the surface and edges of the cells (fig. 158). Sometimes the intercellular channels become widened in consequence of an excess of fluid accumulating in them, but usually they are very narrow and but little obvious. The spikes and ridges upon the deeper cells of a stratified epithelium were first noticed by Max Schultze, who was of opinion that they were for the purpose of effecting, by indenting with those on adjoining cells, a firmer connexion between the cells of the epithelium. The true relations of the structures in question, and the intercellular channels which are bridged across by them, were discovered by Bizzozero. The researches of J. Arnold and of Thoma showed that similar inter- cellular channels occur extensively in all varieties of epithelium.'^ The fibrils which ^ Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. xlv. 1887. - According to Kromayer (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlii. 1892),the pigment is certainly formed within the epithelium-cells. B. Rosenstadt (ibid. 1. 1897) comes to the same conclusion. ^ Cf. also A. Kolossow (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. lii. 1898), who, by the employment of a special method of fixation and staining, has been able to show cell-bridges in all epithelia without exception. Fig. 158.—Two ‘ prickle-cells ’ from the DEEPER PART OF THE EPIDERMIS. (Ranvier.) fZ, space around the nucleus, probablj^ caused by shrinking of the latter.