233 MEDULLARY SHEATH conspicuous in osmic-acid-stained specimens (fig. 3GG). They have nothing in common with the regular segmentation of the nerve-fibre, which was described by Ranvicr (see p. 229), Imt are produced by ineomplete inteiTuptions in the myelin of the medullary sheath, which are conical in form and are bridged across by fibrc-like strands of the material composing the sheath (tig. 3G4). When the axis of the fibre is focussed the interruptions appear to run obliquely from j Fig. 366.—A portion of medullated nerve-fibre treated with osmic acid. Photograph. (Schafer.) The medullary sheath is stained black. A node of Ranvier is seen on the right and two medullary clefts in the course of the fibres. the neurolemma towards the axis-cylinder. The chief reasons for believing that these inter- ruptions are artifacts are— (1) They occur at very irregular intervals, so that the conico-cylindrical segments which lie between them vary greatly in length, some being short, others long ; nor is there any eonstancy even in their irregularity. (2) The less the nerve-fibres are mechanically injured, and especially pulled in the process of separating them, the fewer and less conspicuous are the oblique interruptions and the fewer the conico-cylindrical segments. On the other hand, their number and prominence can be greatly increased by manipulation of the fibres. (3) They are not visible in fibres which are examined in intact transparent parts of living animals, such as the transparent tail-fin of small fishes. Fig. 367.—Reticular appearance (neurokeratin) in medullary sheath. Photograph. (Schafer.) Magnified 600 diameters. The axis-cylinder is coloured as well as the neurokeratin network. (6) A reticular structure {reticulum of the medullary sheath), combined with which there may be an appearance of spiral fibres at the junetion of the segments of Schmidt (fig. 367).' Various reagents, but especially alcohol and ether, produce this appearance of a reticulum or sponge in the myelin of medullated nerves. There is, however, reason to believe that the apparent structure is due to the way the myelin constituents have undergone coagulation and separation under the influence of the reagent. For (1) the size of the retieulum varies, even in the same nerve-fibres, with the strength of the reagent or reagents, and the rapidity with which they are allowed to act; (2) no trace of such a structure is visible in fresh nerve-hbres ; (3) a .similar reticular appearance can be produced in isolated drops of myelin. The reticulum is probably due to the separating out in this form, under the influence of the coagulating reagents, from the complex material which forms the myelin, of a keratin-like substance {neurokeratin, Kiihne). This, after sueh separation, is capable of being stained ^ G. Sala (and Golgi) Verhandl. d. Anat. Gesefl. 1901 (Anat. Anz. xviii.)