135 IIVALINE CARTI LA GE assumed in order to explain the manner in which nutritive plasma penetrates the matrix of cartilage to reach the cells. Budge' endeavoured to demonstrate the existence of canaliculi by forcing coloured injecting fluid into the substance of cartilage, but the result of the experiment was not conclusive. It has also been attempted to show them by the so-called natural method of injection, that is by allowing indigo-carmine (which has an intensely blue colour) to mix with the circulating blood of animals, which after a time are killed and the cartilages examined. Proceeding in this way, L. Gerlach “ was unable to see any blue channels in the cartilage-matrix, while J. Arnold ^ obtained results from which he was led to infer the existence of minute cleft-like spaces throughout the matrix, connected by fine radiating canaliculi on the one hand with the lymphatics in the perichondrium, and on the other hand with the cell-spaces of the cartilage. In the cartilage of Cephalopods the cells are branched, and intercommunicate by their branches. Such is the structure of hyaline cartilage in general, but it is somewhat modified in different situations. In articular cartilag'e the matrix in a thin section appears dim, like ground glass, having sometimes an almost granular aspect. The cells and cell- groups are smaller and more evenly dispersed, as a rule, than in rib cartilage. As already mentioned, the groups are flattened at and near to the surface, and lie parallel with it (fig. 218, a); deeper and nearer the bone, on the other hand, they are narrow and oblong, like short irregular strings of beads, and are mostly directed vertically (fig. 218, c). It is well knowm that articular cartilages readily break in a direction per- pendicular to their surface, and the surface of the fracture appears to the naked eye to be striated in the same direction, as if they had a columnar structure ; this may either be due to the vertical arrange- ment of the rows of cells, or to the substance of the matrix being dis- posed in a fibrous or columnar manner (Leidy). Near the margin of the articular cartilages connective tissue is prolonged a certain way into them from the periosteum and synovial membrane, and the cartilage-cells acquire processes and present transitions to the connective-tissue corpuscles of that membrane (fig. 219). There is no sharp demarcation between the two tissues, which here pass continuously into one another. Except at this transitional zone the matrix of articular cartilage rarely becomes converted into ■ fibro-cartilage, nor is it prone to ossify like rib-cartilage. But a deposit of calcareous granules may occur in the deeper parts of the articular cartilage near the bone, the deposit first showing itself around the groups of cartilage-cells (fig. 218, d). This change may also happen at the symphyses. When the earthy matter is extracted by means of an acid, the tissue which remains has all the characters of cartilage.^ In the costal cartilag*es, the cells, which are of considerable size, are also collected in groups, larger for the most part than those found in articular cartilage (figs. 217, 220). Near the exterior of the cartilage they are flattened, and lie parallel 1 Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiv. and xvi, - Verhalten d. Indigschwefelnatrons, &c. Erlangen, 1876. * Virch. Arch. Ixviii. 1870 and Ixxiii. 1878. ^ See on the structure of articular cartilage, J. A. Hammar, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xliii. 1894. Fig. 219.—Border of articular cartilage showing TRANSITION OP CARTILAGE-CELLS INTO CONNECTIVE- TISSUE CORPUSCLES. From head of metatarsal BONE (human). (Schafer.) About 340 diameters. a, ordinary cartilage-cells ; &, &, with branching processes.