429 COMPOUND GLANDS of which has an efferent lobular duct, and these again join with others in the manner just described for the racemose type. When the lobules are unravelled the glands in question show a generally tubular character, although the expan- sions which form the alveoli are in some cases better marked than in others. WTien examined without unravelling, the lobules have a racemose appearance (fig. 631, c); accordingly, as already stated, they have been termed tubulo-racemose glands. Some serous glands, such as the lacrymal and the glands of Ebner of the tongue, are constructed on this type. In a third type of compound gland the alveoli are represented by long tubules without any sign of sacculation or expansion beyond the diameter of the ducts which lead from them, although the tubules may vary in diameter in different parts of their course. This type is represented by the kidney and testicle, although the last-named organ is of a different nature from ordinary secreting glands, since its products, as already explained, are morphological (spermatozoa) rather than chemical, as is the case in the ordinary secreting gland. It is, however, built up like a gland, and is furnished with a duct, the vas deferens, which carries its secretion towards the exterior. Even the ovary, which appears, when fully formed, as a solid mass of vascular connective tissue containing vesicles—the Glraafian follicles—lined by epithelium-cells, and enclosing the ova, displays at an early stage of its development an obscurely tubular structure, its epithelial cells being arranged in cylindrical columns extending in from the surface, near which they may even exhibit a lumen ; although eventually these cell-columns (‘ egg-tubes ’ of Pfliiger) become separated into islands or nests of cells to form the Graafian follicles. The ovary, however, is not directly connected with its duct, which is represented in the mammal by the Fallopian tube leading to the uterus ; for this duct opens by a funnel-shaped enlargement provided with a fringed ciliated border into the peritoneal cavity near the ovary, and the ova, which are discharged from the latter by the bursting of the follicles containing them, are caught upon this expansion of the duct and conveyed down it into the uterus by the action of cilia. Another gland, the study of whose ontogeny and phylogeny shows it to be essentially of a tubular type, is the liver. In the adult mammal the liver is com- posed of innumerable small solid masses of cells, the hepatic lobules, about a millimetre in diameter and imperfectly isolated from one another by connective tissue. Each lobule represents a miniature gland, and is provided with a duct or ducts which lead away through the liver-substance and unite with others to form, eventually, the hepatic duct. The ducts of the lobule do not, however, arise from the interior of alveoli, but from minute channels (bile-canaliculi) which run every- where between the cells of the lobule and collect the secretion from them. The lobule is also traversed everywhere by blood-channels of a sinusoid character (Minot). The walls of these are incomplete, so that the cells are directly bathed by the circu- lating blood, an arrangement which obtains in no other secreting gland. Indeed the relationship between blood- and liver-cell is even more intimate, for the liver- cells are themselves excavated by a network of fine canaliculi into which the blood-plasma, and even on occasion blood-corpuscles, can penetrate. Nevertheless, different as the structure of the liver appears from that of tubular glands in general, a study of its development shows that it must be classed along with them. It grows out as a protrusion from the entoderm of the alimentary canal, and from this protrusion there extend intercommunicating strands or trabeculas of cells, which invade the lumen of the large sinus-like veins (omphalo- mesenteric and allantoic) that pass towards the sinus venosus of the heart. These trabeculae are ultimately reduced to a network of cell-columns, in the meshes of which the blood in the venous sinuses circulates. The cell-columns presently