CORPORA LUTEA 658 number of follicles, after attaining a certain amount of growth and development, undergo degeneration (atresia), the ovum becoming shrivelled and eventually disappearing, the follicular epithelium degenerating—a process which is shared by the theca interna—and the cavity remaining for some time as an irregular cyst, which shrivels and eventually disappears, being perhaps absorbed. After the cessation of sexual activity the Graafian follicles cease to enlarge and as age advances an increasing number become atrophied. Changes also occur in the interstitial tissue of the ovary leading to sclerosis of its stroma and a general shrinking in size. Some of these changes are illustrated in fig. 952. B C Pig. 950.—Three stages in the formation of the corpus luteum in the mouse. (Sobotta.) A, commencing ingrowth of the vascular tissue of the theca folliculi into the hypertrophied follicular epithelium; a, vascular ingrowth; thi, theca or wall of follicle ; fe, follicular epithelium. B, a further stage in which the vascular ingrowths of the theca converge towards a central cavity. Between the ingrowths or trabeculae the follicular epithelial cells, which are under- going rapid multiplication, appear as if disposed in columns ; I, leucocytes amongst the folli- cular cells ; ke, surface epithelium of the ovary. C, a further stage, the columns being now narrower and the trabeculae more numerous. Development and structure of the corpus luteum.—The corpora lutea are produced after the rupture of the Graafian follicles and the escape of their contents by what may perhaps be most correctly described as a process of hypertrophy of the walls of the empty follicles. The hypertrophied follicular wall becomes thrown into plaits or folds, which as they increase in extent occupy more and more of the cavity of the empty follicle, until this has become entirely filled. The hypertrophy has usually been described as the result of the proliferation of the polyhedral interstitial stroma-cells, which, as already stated, occur in