187 HISTOKICAL of the light discs (fluid) at either end, and Krause supposed that in contraction this fluid changes its situation, becojiiing shifted to the periphery of the dark substance, and that in this way the muscle is diminished in length, and proportionately increased in breadth (fig. 288, B). Subse- quently, however, recognising the existence of longitudinal stria;, which he regarded as due to rod-like structures, within the muscle-prisin, Krause described the fluid as passing between these and separating them more from one another during contraction (fig. 288 C). About the same time (1868) Hensen described the stripe Avhich bears his name. The next prominent writer upon the subject was Merkel (1872), who believed the transverse membranes of Krause to be double, and corroborated Hensen’s description of the existence of a line or disc in the middle of the dark stria. But the most prominent featuie in Merkel’s account occurs in his description of the process of contraction. According to Merkel, the aniso- tropous substance of the dark stria first becomes diffused over the whole muscle-compartment, so that the fibre acquires a homogeneous appearance, and at a later stage becomes accumu- lated against the transverse membranes, while the isotropous substance on the other hand is accumulated on either side of Hensen’s disc : the position of the two substances being thus reversed. Merkel was followed by Engelmann (1873), according to whose terminology, which has been adopted by most subsequent German writers, a muscular fibre consists of a succession of super- imposed parts or compartments, which are partitioned off from one another b}'- thin discs or membranes—uiiermediate discs (Zwischenscheiben, Z). Within each compartment thus marked off is a series of layers, varying in their refractive power and in their action upon polarised light, as follows : Next to the intermediate disc or membrane of Krause comes a layer of isotropous dear substance (J), within which may sometimes be distinguished a thin disc of darker substance, having the appearance of a line of dots : this is the accessory disc (Nebenscheibe, N) or granule- layer of Flogel; then comes the broad disc of anisotropous substance (Querscheibe, Q) or principal disc, occupying the greater portion of the muscle-compartment, and bisected by a narrow pale disc, which lies exactly in the middle of the compartment, and is distin- guished as the middle disc (Mittelscheibe, M) or band of Hensen. Beyond the principal disc come in inverse succession isotropous sub- stance with accessory disc, and intermediate disc, and so on in the next compartment. When contraction is about to supervene in any part of a muscular fibre, the changes which (according to Engelmann) may be observed are the following : The intermediate discs approach one another and the successive discs within each muscle-compartment become less dis- tinct, so that the fibre loses in great measure at the part in question (that namely in which the contraction is beginning) its striated appearance, this being due to the passage of the isotropous substance into the anisotropous substance. The stage in question is termed the homo- geneous stage. As the contraction progresses, transverse striae again make their appearance, in consequence of the gradual darkening of the accessory discs and concomitant clearing up of the principal disc, so that now each intermediate disc with its juxtaposed accessory disc forms a dark isotropous band, these alternating with the narrowed and now bright-looking principal discs of anisotropous substance. The reversal of the striae in contracting muscle was ascribed by Engelmann to changes in refrangibility in the several substances which compose the discs of the muscle-coinpartjnent, accompanied by an increase in the volume of the principal disc at the expense of the isotropous substance, and not, as Merkel had supposed to be the case, to an exchange of position between isotropous and anisotropous substance. Both Merkel and Engelmann attached considerable importance to the occurrence of the inter- mediate stage, in which the striaj become indistinct. It may be caused in part by the absorp- tion of the isotropous by anisotropous substance, but it is probable that the homogeneous appearance of that part of the ordinary fibres which is passing into or out of full contraction is often produced by a longitudinal shifting of the fibrils, owing to their being unequally pulled upon by the more contracted part. A similar mechanical shifting of the fibrils, accompanied by indistinctness of transverse striation of the fibre, is frequently produced in teasing the tissue. Moreover, the so-called homogeneous stage is not always observed either in the contraction of the ordinary muscles or in the isolated fibrils of the wing-muscles. Heitzmann (in 1873) noticed the reticular appearances of muscle which had been treated with gold and acid, but these appearances were first fully described by G. Retzius in 1881. B C is an is Fig. 288.—Diagbammatic bepbesentation of a MUSCLE-CASE. (W. Krause.) A, at rest; B, condition in contraction, first view; C, condition in contraction, second view. an, muscle-prism, consisting of a bundle of muscle- rods ; is, fluid isotropous substance.