382 THE BLOOD cells ’—as well as by Leboucq ' and others. ’ It has been supposed by some recent Avriters on the subject, who have otherwise confirmed the observation,^ that the intracellular formation of erythrocytes as above described is really an instance of the reverse process—viz. an atrophy of already formed blood-vessels and a breaking down of the contained blood-corpuscles by phago- cytosis—and it is obvious that the series of appearances described can be read both ways. But there are difficulties in the adoption of this view. For, in the first place, the appearances are always seen where development is progressive and where blood-vessels need to be formed—as in growing adipose tissue—rather than where they are likely to be in process of removal. And, secondly, there is never to be detected within these vaso-formative cells any sign of the formation of crystals or of pigmentary matter, such as is always seen in cases of intracellular disintegration of erythrocytes—e.g. in the adult spleen. E. Formation in bone-marrow. ably in structure in different situations. The marrow of the bones differs consider- Within the shaft of the long bones in Fig. 573.—Section of bed marrow. (Carnegie Dickson.) Magnified 45 diameters. man it is largely composed of adipose tissue, but the fat-cells are supported by reticular tissue, and between them elements occur similar to those immediately to be mentioned in the red marrow. In many short bones, and cancellated ends of long bones, but especially in the cranial diploe, the bodies of the vertebrae, the sternum, and the ribs, the marrow is red or reddish in colour, and contains fewer fat-cells (figs. 573, 574, and accompanying Plate). While, however, the fat-cells are scanty in the red-coloured marrow, it contains numerous other cells—the marrotv-leucocytes or myelocytes {m, m'. m" of accompanying Plate, and 23 to 26 on Plate opposite p. 387). These in general appearance resemble blood- leucocytes. Like blood-leucocytes they show variations in the granules contained in their cytoplasm. 8ome have only fine granules which are either neutrophil or oxyphil: these resemble the lymphocytes of the blood, and like them vary greatly ' Bull. d. 1. soc. med. de Gaud, 1875. - Wissosky, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xiii. 1877 ; Kuborn (in liver), Anat. Anz. v. 1890; Nicolaides, Arch, f. Physiol. 1891. •" Spuler, Anat. Hefte, vii. 189G; Saxer, ihid. vi. 189G ; H. Fnchs, ihid. xxii. 1903 (the literature is given in this article) ; F. Pardi, Arch, di Anat. e Embriol. viii. 1909,