ENDINGS IN SENSE-ORGANS 289 Johe. The free or peripheral end of each olfactory cell, i.e. the part which extends from the nucleated enlargement towards the surface, is a straight somewhat attenuated process which is terminated either by a single short filiform or hair-like projection {olfactory hair) or by a bunch of such ‘ hairs. The nuclei of the olfactory cells occur at different levels in the thickness of the epithelium, so that the peripheral parts of the cells are of very varying length. The olfactory cells have a superficial resemblance to the gustatory cells, but differ from the latter in the fact that the central process becomes an actual sensory nerve-fibre which enters the central nervous system. Beneath the olfactory epithelium is a thick layer of serous glands {glands of Bowman) which pour out their secretion by ducts which open on the surface. Fig. 459.—Diagbam of connexion of olfactoky nekves with cells in olfactoby bulb. (Schafer.) olf.c., olfactory cells of nasal mucous membrane; olf.n., nerve-fibres derived from these cells ; gl., olfactory glomeruli with synapses between the olfactory nerve-fibres, and dendrons of the mitral cells, m.c.; a, axons of mitral cells passing into the olfactory tract as nerve-fibres, n.tr.: these fibres give off collaterals to the olfactory bulb ; n', afferent nerve-fibre, ending in olfactory bulb. It is clear that the olfactory cells are sensory neurones in the same sense as are the sensory cells of the integument of annelids. Their axons, as we have seen, enter the olfactory bulb, which is an extension of the brain; within this they form synapses with processes (dendrons) of certain of its nerve-cells {mitral cells), and these again send their axons by the olfactory tract towards the more central portions of the brain (fig. 459). The synapses in question are contained within small globular portions of grey matter, termed the olfactory glomeruli. The axons of the olfactory cells (fibres of the olfactory nerves) remain non-medullated throughout their course, although they possess a delicate nucleated sheath. The absence of medullary sheath furnishes an additional indication that these neurones have retained more than any other sensory nerve-cells the primitive condition. Mode of ending* of the visual (optic) nerve-fibres.—The retina or nervous tunic of the eyeball, which contains, besides various other kinds of nerve-cell, those neurones which receive impressions of light and which transmit the consequent nervous impulses towards the brain, is, as the study of its structure VOL. IT. PART I. u