443 MUCOUS MEMBRANES those parts comparatively stout and tough. In the stomach and intestines, on the other hand,, where the membrane is pervaded by tubular glands, the tissue between these is chiefly reticular and lymphoid tissue, and in these situations the mem- brane, although it may be thicker, is far less firm and tough than in parts where much of the ordinary connective tissue is found. In other mucous membranes transitions are met with between these extremes. It frequently happens that in certain circumscribed places the lymphoid tissue is greatly increased in amount, and becomes densely packed with lymphocytes. In this way the so-called solitary glands, lymph-follicles or lymph-nodules are pro- duced. They resemble the cortical nodules of the lymph-glands, and are sometimes partly encircled by a sinus-like lymph-vessel. If there are many lymphoid nodules adjacent to one another, so as to make up a localised patch, a so-called agminated gland is formed, or if massed together more thickly, a lymphoid organ like the tonsil. These collections of lymphoid tissue, which may, if large, extend, on the one hand down into the sub-mucous tissue, and on the other upwards into the epithelium, will be more particularly described when the several parts in which they occur come under consideration. The lymph-cells of the lymphoid tissue migrate between the cells of the epithelium which covers the surface, and may even become free in considerable numbers in the fluid which moistens the surface. The purpose served by this emigration of lymph-cells is not understood. Blood-vessels are abundant in most mucous membranes. The branches of the arteries and veins, dividing in the submucous tissue, send smaller branches into the corium, which then break up into a network of capillaries. This capillary net- work lies immediately beneath the epithelium, or beneath the basement-membrane when this is present, advancing into the villi and papillae to be presently described, and surrounding the tubes and other glandular recesses. The lymphatics also form networks of cleft-like vessels in the mucous membrane, which communicate with plexuses of larger valved vessels in the submucous tissue ; they commence either by blind diverticula, as in most villi, or in the form of a superficial network, which is almost always more deeply placed than the network of blood-capillaries. The nerves of mucous membranes are largely distributed to the muscularis mucosae, where this exists. Before proceeding to their destination they are in many parts collected together to form a gangliated plexus in the submucous tissue, such as the plexus of Meissner in the alimentary canal. Some nerves pass to the epithelium and terminate between the epithelial cells. Papillae and villi.—The free surface of mucous membranes is in some parts plain, but in others is beset with little eminences named papillce and villi. The largest papillae occur on the tongaie ; there they are small prominences of the corium, containing blood-vessels and nerves, and covered with stratified epithelium. Some are small and simple, others large and covered with secondary papillae. Papillae similar to those of the skin (p. 454) occur in the mucous membranes of the mouth, pharynx, and gullet, and generally where stratified epithelium is met with. They serve various purposes ; some of them no doubt minister to the senses of taste and touch, many appear to have chiefly a mechanical office, while others would seem to give greater extension to the surface of the corium for the production of a thick coating of epithelium. Villi are met with on the mucous coat of the small intestines. Being set close together like the pile of velvet, they give to the parts of the membrane which they cover the aspect usually denominated ‘ villous.'’ They are minute elevations or processes of the corium, covered with columnar epithelium, and containing blood-vessels and lacteals, which are thus favourably disposed for absorbing nutrient matters from the intestine. In some few portions of the mucous membranes the surface is marked with fine ridges which intersect each other in a reticular manner, and thus inclose larger and