NEKVE-CELLS 224 tliese cells partake of an epithelial character, but similar cells occur in the epidermis of certain invertebrates {e.g. Lumbricus), which undoubtedly represent sensory nerve-cells (see p. 282, and Neurology, Part II. p. 359). Most nerve-cells of the central nervous system are multipolar (see Plate opposite p. 212), having a single axon and two, three, or more dendrons. The number and relative size of the dendrons influence the general shape of the cell. If these are nearly equal and equally distributed, the cell-body is uniformly angular : if one or two dendrons are much larger than the rest, the cell-body tends to be drawn out in their direction: in this way nerve-cells become stellate, pyramidal, and assume many other forms. Most dendrons at once branch dichotomously, and rapidly decrease in size ; but in some cases the branching is less close to the cell-body. In the cells of Purkinje of the cerebellum the dendrons form a greatly extended arborescent mass Fig. 348.—Diageamof the arrange- ment OF SENSORY NERVE-CELLS IN THE OLFACTORY MUCOUS MEM- BRANE AND OLFACTORY BULB. (G. Ketzius.) n., 7^., axons of nerve-cells. The upper one comes from an olfactory cell and forms a synapse at gl. with one of the dendrons of a cell in the olfactory bulb. Fig, 349.—A cell of Purkinje of the cerebellar cortex. Golgi method. (Cajal.) a, its axon; &, a collateral; c, d, the branching mass formed by its dendrons. (fig. 349). As already noticed (p. 211), some dendrons are closely beset with small lateral projections, the so-called ‘ spines ’ or ‘ thorns,’ giving them a roughened appearance. Although it is a general rule that the axon extends to some distance from the cell before terminating—and this fact constitutes an important difference between it and the dendrons—in a certain type of cells met with in the grey matter of the central nervous system the axon begins to break up into branches near the cell-body (fig. 350). These branches are, however, quite different from those of the dendrons and cannot be mistaken for them. Cells of the ordinary kind—the axons of which terminate at some distance from the cell-body—are known as cells of