147 LACUN.T^ AND CANALICULI Many of tlie Haversian canals wliicli pass through the circumferential or periosteal lamellre carrying blood-vessels from the periosteum into the bone, are not surrounded by concentric lamellae, but are mere channels piercing the periosteal lamellae. They are often spoken of as Volkmanri's canals. The cancellated texture has also a lamellar structure. The slender bony walls of its little cavities or areolae are made up of superimposed layers, like those of the Haversian canals, but they have fewer lamellae in proportion to the width of the cavities which they surround (fig. 230, ml). Xiacunae and canaliculi.—All over the section numerous little dark specks are seen among the lamellae with a low power of the microscope. These were at one time known as the ‘osseous corpuscles’; but, although they contain cells (fig. 232), they are in reality minute cavities in the bony substance, and the name of lacunce has been applied to them. To see them properly, sections of unsoftened bones are prepared and ground very thin. Such a section, cut transversely and viewed with Fig. 231.—Transverse section of compact tissue (of humerus). (Sharpey.) Magnified about 150 diameters. Three of the Haversian canals are seen, with their concentric rings ; also the lacunae, with the canaliculi extending from them across the direction of the lamellae. The Haversian apertures had become filled with air and debris (from the grinding), and therefore appear black in the figure, which represents the object as viewed with transmitted light. transmitted light by a magnifying power of from 200 to 300, has the appearance represented in figs. 231 and 233. The openings of the Haversian canals are seen with their encircling lamellae ; and among these the lacunae, which are mostly ranged in a corresponding order, appear as black, opaque or nearly opaque, oblong spots, with fine dark lines extending from them and causing them to look not unlike little black insects. The dark appearance is due to the fact that the little cavities have become filled with air in the dry bone, and when the same section is seen against a dark ground, with the light falling on it (as tv^e usually view an opaque object), the little bodies and lines appear quite white, like figures drawn with chalk on a slate, and the intermediate substance, being transparent, now appears dark. The lacunae, as already stated, are minute recesses in the bone, and the lines extending from them are fine pores or tubes named canaliculi, which issue from their cavity. The lacunae present some variety of figure, but in such a section as that represented they for the most part appear irregularly fusiform, and lie nearly in the same direction as the lamellae between which they are situated; or, to speak