DEVELOPMENT 479 The ceruminous glands in the auditory passage consist of a tube coiled into a ball, like the sweat-glands (fig. 693). Although there is a difference in the nature of the secretion, whicli is of a fatty nature in the ceruminous glands, the general correspondence between the two in structure and mode of development renders it clear that the ceruminous glands may be regarded as a variety of the sudoriferous ; they are, however, considerably larger. As already stated, they are associated with large sebaceous glands (fig. 694). Other modified sweat-glands are the circumanal glands and the glands of Moll in the eyelids. Both of these show a branching type of tubular glands allied to tubulo-racemose, and both are much larger than the ordinary sweat-glands. There are also found around the anus large and small sweat-glands of the ordinary type, as well as glands with straight ducts and well- marked saccular alveoli.^ The development of the sweat-glands was first accurately studied by Kolliker. Their rudiments, when discoverable in the embryo (about the fifth month), have much the same appearance as those of the hairs, and consist of processes of the rete mucosum, which grow down into the cutis vera; but they lack the slant which characterises the hair-germs. In hairy parts of the skin they often commence as sprouts from the rete mucosum of each hair- germ, and subsequently become shifted to the adjacent skin-surface.^ They are formed of cells collected at the growing end into a solid mass of a club shape, continuous by a thinner cell-strand with the rete mucosum. They are surrounded by a homo- geneous limiting membrane, prolonged above into that between the derma and cuticle. Their subsequent changes consist in the formation of a canal along the axis of the ceU-strand—at first without an outlet—the prolonga- tion of this through the epidermis to open on the surface^ the coiling up of the gradually lengthening end-tube into a compact ball, and the twisting of the duct as it proceeds to the orifice. The plain muscular tissue of the sweat-glands is said to be developed from some of the epithelium-cells of the rudimentary gland (Ranvier), and is therefore of ectodermal origin. s d s Fig. 694.—Section showing the duct of a ceku- MINOUS GLAND ACCOMPANIED BY THE SECBETING TUBULES OF LABGE SEBACEOUS GLANDS. (Scllilfer.) Photograph. d, duct of ceruminous gland; s, s, sebaceous glands on either side of it. THE MAMMAKY GLANDS. The mammary glands are to be regarded as modified cutaneous glands ; probably they represent sweat-glands, which they resemble in their mode of development. In the human female they form two hemispherical masses on either side of the sternum, covering the pectoral muscles; but in the virgin and nulliparous condition these masses are only in small part glandular, being formed mostly of connective ^ Huber, Contrib. to med. research, Ann Arbor, 1903 (with Adamson). ^ Backmund, Anat. Hefte, xxvi. 1904 ; F. Diem, ibid, xxxiv. 1907 ; C. Wimpfheimer, ibid, (all three articles from Stuhr’s laboratory).