79 AM(EBOID AND CILIARY MOVEMENTS (3) Certain Heliozoan animalcules which are provided with long pseudof)odia, capable of being slowly extended and retracted, exhibit in the axis of each pseudopodium a structure which has been described as an axial rod or axial fibre. But its appearance indicates a tubular rather than a solid structure such as the term ‘ rod ’ or ‘ fibre ’ would imply. These ‘ rods ’ sometimes commence in the cell-protoplasm from a central globular body, which is like an enlarged centrosome. That they are actually composed of fluid or plastic material is also evidenced by their flexibility : the term ‘ rod ’ is therefore inappropriate. In Camptonema nutans (fig. 117), which is allied to the Heliozoa, the long pseudopodia are cilium-like, and each contains a strongly refracting axial ‘ fibre.’ The sections of the pseudopodia have a distinctly tubular appearance (fig. 122), and the pseudopodium may bend over in any direction. The appearance of the ‘ rods ’ is consistent with their being hollow axial parts of the pseudopodia, and it is noteworthy that this hollowing out of the pseudopodia is associated with slow cilium- like movements of those processes. (4) The Suctoria (a species of animalcule) possess hollow processes which are elongated or shortened by the flowing of fluid into them from the general substance of the cell-body. This protrusion and retraction may occur a number of times a minute, and is therefore similar in rapidity to the movement of cilia. In some forms the movement takes on a waving or bending character, reminding the observer of slow ciliary action. There can be little doubt that the movement of these processes is due to variations in surface tension of the protoplasmic cell-body. (5) Schuberg has shown ' that in the detached condition the cilia of some Protozoa assume a bent or, rather, a corkscrew-like form. He also describes an end-piece projecting beyond the rest of the cilium (as in the spermatozoon) and composed of an axial part enclosed by a sheath; this can be seen in stained preparations (flg. 123). Schuberg expresses the opinion that the sheath is the more fluid part of the cilium, but adduces no evidence in favour of this view, nor does he attempt to show in what manner the movements could be produced in a structure so constituted. He regards the end- piece as a projection of the axial part; but an examination of his figures indicates that it is rather to be regarded as a prolongation of the substance of the sheath. For the part of the cilium which stains dark, like the body substance itself, is represented by Schuberg as of less diameter than the projecting end-piece of the cilium, and if this is so it must therefore be the axial part; the real sheath or envelope of the cilium remaining colourless in these preparations and being only seen where its substance projects beyond the axis. Relation of'amoeboid and ciliary movement to ionic constitution of cell-proteins. —That the movements of amoeboid cells and of cilia are the result of changes in surface tension and that these changes are brought about by changes in the ionic constitution of the proteid molecules is urged with much force by Robertson,^ whose arguments may be given in his own words: ‘We have seen that it is a characteristic of the proteid part of the ion-pro teid molecule that it readily forms compomids with any ions which happen to be present in excess, while Hardy s experiments . . . show that the electrical character of the resulting ion-proteid depends upon the relative velocities of the ions in the solution in which the proteid is suspended. In the first case, consider the effect upon a unicellular (amoeboid) organism of a constant current in the direction shown in the diagram (fig. 124) (A = Anode, K = Kathode), the organism being- supposed to be laden with kation-proteid, by virtue of the metabolism and dissociation of which a difference of potential is maintained between the protoplasmic surface and that of the medium (indicated by the small-f and —signs). ‘ Just as in the analogous case of the capillary electrometer, the effect of a current travellino- ^ Arch. f. Protistenkunde, vi. p. Gl, 1905. T. Brailsford Robertson, ‘An Outline of a Theory of the Genesis of Protoplasmic Motion and Excitation,’ Trans. Roy. Soc. of South Australia, vol. xxix. 1905, and Quart. Journ. Exn Physiol. 11. 1909. ‘ ' Fig. 122.—Section of Camptonema nutans. (Gurwitsch, after Schaudinn.) Each pseudopodium has a flexible tubular flbre projecting into it from the body of the animalcule.