232 NERVK-FIBRES but', on the other hand, their axons are more easily displayed, because the myelin of the medullary sheath comes away from them more readily. The axis-cylinder of the nerve-fibre, being in every case the axon of a nerve- cell, has the structure which has already been described for that process. It consists of a bundle of neuro-fibrils imbedded in a soft and probably protoplasmic matrix which fills the interior of the medullary sheath (fig. 363), but is liable to shrink after death (fig. 365). It is continued without interruption from its origin in a nerve-cell body to its termination in a peripheral organ, where it generally ends by branching dendritically, forming a terminal arborisation. The size of nerve-fibres shows considerable variation (figs. 360 to 366). The largest (from 8 fj. to IQ fx diameter) are those to the muscles of the limbs and skeletal muscles generally : most sensory fibres are also of large size, but those from the viscera are of smaller calibre. The smallest medullated fibres are those which belong to the autonomic system, passing from the spinal cord to the sympathetic ganglia (pre-ganglionic xibres of Langley). These are from Fig. 365.—Pobtion of fbesh medullated nerve-fibre in which the axis-ctlinder has BEGUN TO SHRINK, SO THAT IT IS CLEARLY DISTINGUISHABLE FROM THE MEDULLARY SHEATH. Photograph. (Schafer.) Magnified 600 diameters. A node of Ranvier is seen on the right.. 1-8 fx to 3‘6 fx. Fibres of intermediate size, both, efferent and afferent, occur in some cranial nerves (fifth, seventh, ninth, tenth) and several spinal nerves.' The smaller medullated nerves are apt to become varicose on being teased in the fresh condition (fig. 362). Except in the autonomic system there seems to be some sort of relationship between the size of the nerve- fibres and the length of their course, but this does not follow any regular proportion. The medullary sheath of the nerve-fibre in the living mialtered state appears structureless, except for the constrictions of Ranvier, which have already been described.^J These are, moreover, due to the presence of the nem’olemma, for they are not seen in the alemmal fibres of the central nervous system. Various evidences of special structure have been front time to time described in the medullary sheath (see below), but there is abundant reason to believe that they are one and all the result of the action of reagents and of post-mortem coagulation upon the myelin of which this sheath is composed.-^ The myelin confers upon it a peculiar doubly - contoured appearance when examined at a certain focus. The presence of the myelin is also responsible for the dark ink-like staining which the medullated fibres undergo when treated with osmic acid. It is this sheath which shows the first signs of degeneration when the nerve-fibre is cut off from its cell of origin, the continuity of the myelin becoming interrupted at first only here and there, but after a short time at very frequent intervals, so that it becomes broken up into globular masses, and these ultimately into small globules and granules of fatty material (Wallerian degeneration, see p. 245). The appearances in the mednllary sheath which have been considered by various authors to represent a special structure invisible in living nerve-fibres are the following : (a) The conico-cylindrical segments (Schmidt, Lantermann *). These are' always seen in teased preparations of peripheral medullated nerve-fibres (figs. 363, 364) and are particularly 1 On the size of nerve-fibres, see Gaskell, Journ. Physiol, vii. 1886; Edgeworth, ibid. xiii. 189*2; J. Fischer, Anat. Anz. xxvi. 1905 (autonomic fibres). ^ Cf. Pertick, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xix. 1881. ^ Arch. f. inikr. Anat. xiii. 1877.