21 DIFFERENTIATION IN PROTOPLASM direct observation of a reticulum within the living cell, and it has been upon it that the doctrine of a spongy or reticular structure—i.e. of the differentiation of the protoplasm into spongioplasm and hyaloplasm, has been mainly based. The extreme constancy of the appearance in the same kind of cell with diverse fixatives, and also with the same fixative but in different strengths of solutions—conditions which would produce reticular structures of diverse character in a mere colloidal solution—affords strong evidence of the pre-existence of such reticula. Naturally, it does not follow that the reticula seen are fixed in the sense of being permanent. It is possible that they are constantly changing—liquefying and re-forming— in this or that part of the protoplasm. But they represent a structure which is present at the time in one part or another of the protoplasm, or even throughout the whole cell, and in this sense they constitute a structural and functional differentiation which in many cells becomes fixed permanently during life. Such structure cannot, it is true, be regarded as essential to all protoplasm, so long as in any cells {e.g. some Protozoa) no such differentiation can be detected. But, as we have seen, in these also an ill-defined reticular structure makes its appearance under certain conditions, even during i life (Greely). And the fact that this is in all probability due to the segregation of particles from a colloidal solution seems to indicate the manner in which a similar but i more permanent structure of the protoplasm of other cells may have been brought about. > » Fig. 31.—Untouched photograph of leucocyte of Triton, fixed whilst in amoeboid condition by A JET OF STEAM DIRECTED ON COVER-GLASS; STAINED VHTH HEMATOXYLIN. (Schiifer.) Magnified 1,360 diameters. The internal part of the protoplasm shows an in- distinctly reticular structure (spongioplasm), but the external layer and the pseudopodia are completely clear. The fact that protoplasm, like other colloidal solutions, may at one time and at one place exhibit a reticular or honeycomb struc- ture, which at other times and in other places is lacking, renders nugatory the discussion as to whether the reticulum (spongioplasm) or the enchylema (hyaloplasm) is the contractile part of the cytoplasm. All protoplasmic movements are of a ‘ flowing ’ nature, and imply fluidity of the moving part, which may be the whole proto- plasm. If a less fluid part (spongioplasm) has become separated out from the rest, the flowing would be primarily a movement of the hyaloplasm, which, ex hypothesi, is the part of the proto- plasm remaining fluid after the separation out of the less fluid spongioplasm. In amoeboid cells this less fluid part may also be carried along with the flow, although in some cases the pseudo- podia may at flrst be formed wholly of the more fluid substance (fig. 31).^ The flowing itself, there is every reason to believe, is consequent upon alterations in the tension of a solid film at the surface of the cytoplasm, and in some cases also at internal surfaces within its substance (see p. 76). It must be accepted as an axiom that ‘ every free cell is surrounded by a solid film. The pseudopodia of many infusorians could not exist were they entirely liquid ’ ; they would fall apart into droplets. ‘ As the interior of the pseudopodia shows the phenomena of streaming, the solid part of the pseudopodia can only be at their surface.’ It is highly probable that this film is of a lipoid nature (see p. 11). 1 Schafer, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xlix. 1891. - J. Loeb, The Dynamics of Living Matter, p. 38. Ramsden has shown that solid or extremely viscous filmy matter forms at the surface of protein solutions, even if evaporation be prevented (Zeitschr. f. physik. Chemie, xlvii. 1904). Traube long ago also showed that when certain liquid colloids, or a colloid and a crystalloid, come in contact a solid film may be formed at the contact surface (Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol. 1867).