157 INTRAMEMBRANOUS 088IEICATI0N granular opacity, until the interstices between the globules also become calcified, and the minute globules becoming thus fused together, the new bone again looks comparatively clear (fig. 243, 5).^ As already stated, the fibrils which compose the osteogenic fibres themselves are, according to v. Ebner, not calcified; the calcification affects only the matrix which unites them. The bundles of osteogenic fibres which prolong the bony spicules, generally spread out from the end of each spicule so as to come in contact with those from adjacent spicules. When this happens, the innermost or proximal parts of the bundles frequently grow together (fig. 243, c), whilst the other fibres partially intercross as they grow farther into the membrane. The ossific process extends along the osteogenic fibres fari 'passu with their growth, and thus new bony spicules become con- tinually formed by calcification of the bundles of fibres. osteogenic O'-' A a: c < ,:'Vi ,0 'V ; Iv The earthy deposit occasionally appears in an isolated patch here and there on some of the osteogenic fibres in advance of the main area of ossifica- tion (see fig. 242, a). The osteogenic fibres become com- paratively indistinct as the inter- fibrillar and ground-substance calci- fies ; but they persist in the form of the fibres which are seen in the formed bone, although in embryonic bone their disposition is not lamel- lated, the bony matter having a some- what coarsely and irregularly fibrous structure. In this way the first bony matter becomes formed as a perforated plate or network of osseous spicules, which, whilst extending peripherally in the way above described, gradually becomes thicker nearer the centre, partly by the deposit of bony matter upon its surfaces, partly by the projection from them of bony spicules which are prolonged like those at the periphery by similar systems of osteogenic fibres. The perforations in these first-formed bony plates correspond to the bays which were seen between the advancing spicules, and to the meshes of the bony network formed afterwards by the junction of the spicules, and as the bone thickens they become enclosed and converted into reticulating interstices (like the canals of a sponge), which are occupied by blood-vessels, and by the corpuscles above mentioned. These corpuscles also everywhere cover the bundles of osteogenic fibres, to which their flattened sides are applied (fig. 243, ost). Where the osteogenic fibres diverge from one another, the intervals are occupied by the same cells. It is probable that the osteogenic fibres are formed by the agency of the cells in question, and that the calcification takes place under their influence, hence the name Fig. 244.—Section of ossifying maxillaky bone of NEW-BORN BAT. (v. Koi'ff.) o, osteoblasts ; b, bony substance with osteoblasts and fibres ; b', growing border of bone ; c, embryonic connective tissue, showing its fibres continuous with the osteogenic fibres of the growing border. ‘ See on the fibrils in developing bone and dentine, v. Korff, Arch. f. niikr. Anat. Ixix. 1909.