15‘2 BONE ground-substance of the tendon occurs, so that, after decalcifying, the tendinous structure again becomes manifest. These so-called ossified tendons are therefore not composed of true osseous substance. Appearances Indicative of absorption and re-deposition of bone.—The animal basis of bone is made up essentially, as we have seen, of regularly arranged lamellae ; but interposed among these, layers are here and there met with of a different character, having a granular or irregularly fibrous aspect, with the lacunae very conspicuous and regularly arranged, and sometimes appearing as if surrounded by faintly defined areas. These layers are often bounded by a scalloped border, as if made up of confluent round or oval bodies (fig. 240). The layers described appear principally to occur in the irregular interstices of the systems of concentric Haversian lamellae : they perhaps represent remains of the bony matter which was first formed in the foetus and most of which has become absorbed and replaced by the fibrous lamellar tissue. Irregular layers of rounded nodules, apparently solid, are also sometimes seen, and are of a similar nature. These are met with chiefly near the surface, lying among the circumferential laminae. Haversian spaces.—Spaces are occasionally seen which are characterised by an eroded outline, in some cases partially filled up by concentric lamellae. These were named ‘ Haversian spaces ’ by Tomes and de Morgan' ; ^ they are interpolated or intruded amongst the regular Haversian systems, some of which may have been cut in upon in the excavation of the space. It was further noticed by Tomes and de Morgan that the spaces in question may sometimes be seen being filled up at one part by the deposition of lamellae, whilst they are extending themselves by absorption at another. Haversian spaces are most numerous in young and growing bones, but they occur also after growth is completed. The appearances above mentioned are due to the pecuHar manner in which the absorption of bone occurs ; for it is effected, as will presently be described, by the agency of large multinucleated cells, which excavate little hemispherical pits {foveolce of Howship) and ultimately cavities {Haversian spaces) in the osseous tissue. If the process of absorption should cease and should be succeeded by a re-disposition of osseous sub- stance, the new osseous matter filhng up the hollows of the absorbed surface exhibits, when it is detached, a raised impression corresponding vflth the hollows into which it fitted. In young bones the lamellar character is not evident, the tissue being constituted at first of bundles of fibres which interlace in every direction in the ground-substance ; in this reticular form of osseous tissue the lacunae are both more numerous and irregular in form than in lamellated bone. Portions of such reticulated bone may persist in the adult between the Haversian systems (figs. 233, 234). Fig. 240. — Small part of a section through the SHAFT OF A FEMUR (HUMAN SIXTEEN YEARS) TAKEN A SHORT DISTANCE FROM THE EPIPHYSIS. (Kcilliker.) 230 diameters. a, remains of calcified cartilage; h, bony deposit in Howship’s foveolae (absorption spaces) ; c, subsequent deposit of lamellar bone. The exact knowledge we possess of the minute structure of osseous tissue is largely the result of the investigations of William Sharpey, whose account, written in 1845, has needed no erasure, and but little addition of importance, even to the present day. His labours in this field have been to a certain extent recognised in the adoption of the name ‘ fibres of Sharpey ’ for the perforating fibres; but it must not be forgotten that the fibres which constitute the lamellae and which he ^ Phil. Trans. 1853.