TEETH 504 papilla soon makes its appearance (fig. 732, m'). Behind this again the dental lamina is con- tinued backwards into the gum as a thin flat band of epithelium. About four months after birth an enlargement for the second permanent molar appears, and the corresponding papilla at six months. About the third year the enlargement for the third permanent molar, or wisdom- tooth, begins to be visible in an extension of the dental lamina still further backwards; its papilla is seen about the fifth year. Meanwhile, important changes have been occurring in the dental lamina, in the attachments of the special germs to it, and in the special germs themselves. The changes in the common dental lamina consist in the formation of numerous excavations of irregular size and form, with the result that from a complete flat band of cells it becomes partly atrophied and changed into a cribriform tract (fig. 732,3 and 4 ; fig. 735, d.l.); in transverse sections of the jaw it appears to be broken up into separate portions (fig. 739). This is, however, not really the case, although the lamina is pierced with apertures so as to be almost reticular in Fig. 734.—Gingival subface of the model which is shown fkom above in fig. 732, 4. P., palate; P., upper lip; ?.d./., labio-dental furrow; d./., dental furrow; d.J., prominence caused by dental lamina with its enlargements. character. The change begins in front about the seventeenth week, and gradually extends backwards, but the most posterior part is still complete (non-cribriform) at the time of birth, and even for some time after. Moreover, at certain points the reticulation is absent, viz. on the lingual side of and slightly lateral to the special germ of each milk-tooth ; at these points the dental lamina again undergoes a thickening. These thickenings become the special enamel- germs for the teeth of succession of the second dentition. In connexion with each one a papilla becomes formed in the same way as for the milk-teeth ; but by no means simultaneously, for the germs of the permanent incisors and canines are formed, along with their papillae, at about the twenty-fourth week (embryo of 30 cm.), whereas the enlargements of the dental lamina which are eventually to form the enamel-organs of the first and second premolars are not visible until the twenty-ninth and thirty-third weeks respectively, and the corresponding papillae are not formed until the tenth and eighteenth months after birth. The special dental germs are, as already stated, at first simply enlargements of the eommon germ or lamina which grow out on its inner side. They rapidly increase in size, and are then connected by a broad tract of colls with the common germ. This connecting strand gradually