DEVELOPMENT OF LYMPU-VESSELS 364 rise to a coarse-meshed plexus of lymphatics ; from this, at a later date, is derived a fine-meshed plexus on the inner side of the muscularis mucosae, and from this plexus spring the lacteals which enter the villi; the muscular coat is mainly supplied from branches arising from the submucous plexus, while the plexus between the muscular and serous coat is the last to develop, arising from tAvigs given ofi by the main lymphatics before they enter the muscular coat. W. G. MacCallum ' found that the lymph-vessels of embryo pigs between 5 and 15 cm. long are closed tubes unconnected mth the connective-tissue spaces, and described them as growing by solid sprouts. Lastly, it may be mentioned that Clark,- studying the growth of lymph- vessels in the tail of the tadpole, states that they grow centrifugally as sprouts from pre- existing vessels,® the cells which form their growing extremities being phagocytic. Huntingdon ‘ has suggested that phylogenetically the circulation was originally of the lymphatic type, and that from this arose, secondarily, the haemal or blood-circulatory system. In support of this view he quotes the work of Favaro, who found that in bony fishes certain vessels act alternately as blood- and as lymph-vessels. As we descend in the vertebrate series we find that the origin of the lymphatic system undergoes simplification, for in urodelous amphibians fourteen to sixteen veno-lymphatic hearts are found, Avhile in anurous amphibians two posterior and two anterior hearts only are met with, and in adult reptiles the posterior alone occur. Most birds lose the anterior heart, but some retain it, whereas mammals are entirely devoid of contractile lymph-hearts, although retaining a double connexion between the venous and lymphatic systems.^ ^ Arch. f. Anat. 1902. - Anat. Record, iii. 1909. ^ Cf. Danger, op. cit. ^ Anab. Record, ii. 1908. See also Anat. Anz. xxxix. 1911, where an extensive bibliography relating to the subject will be found. ° The description of the structure and development of the vascular system (including the lymph- vessels) has been furnished by Professor Gustav Mann of Tulane University.