HAIRS 4G8 hair-papilla (fig. 677). The inner root-sheath itself consists of two layers (figs. 678 to 681), which towards the upper part of the follicle become blended into one. The inner (that next the cuticnla) is known as Huxley's layer; it consists of flattened polygonal cells, two or three deep, containing granules similar in nature to eleidin. The outer {Henle's layer) is composed of oblong, somewhat flattened cells, with clear nuclei flattened against the inner border. The protoplasm of its cells is occupied by well-marked longitudinal keratinised fibrils (fig. 681). Between the cells gaps occur which are filled up by projections from the cells of Huxley's layer, so that the two layers of the inner root-sheath dovetail into one another along their whole extent. Near the bottom of the follicle both pass into a single stratum of large polygonal nucleated cells without openings between them. Near the mouth of the follicle the two layers of the inner root-sheath are also not distinguish- able from one another (v. Ebner), and on reaching the mouth the inner root-sheath Fig. 679.—Transverse section of hair-follicle, human, showing fibrillation of cells OF OUTER ROOT-SHEATH, (v. Brunii.) Magnified 500 diameters. o.r.-sh. outer root-sheath; He, Henle’s layer of inner root-sheath; Hit, Huxley’s layer of inner root-sheath ; c, cuticle of root-sheath. tends to split up into its component cells, which become detached and lost as the hair grows.' The soft bulbous enlargement of the root of the growing hair is formed of cells which are in course of multiplication, and not arranged in definite strata. Laterally they are continued into the cells of the outer root-sheath ; superficially they become gradually transformed into the horny cells of the hair and of the inner root-sheath. At the bottom of the follicle they rest upon the hair-papilla (fig. 680). The latter, which is vascular and also receives nerve-fibres, rises up into the bottom of the follicle, fitting into a corresponding excavation of the hair-knob.In the large tactile hairs of animals it is very conspicuous. In short, as the follicle is a recess of the integument, so the hair-papilla represents a greatly enlarged cutaneous papilla. muscles of the hairs.—Slender bundles of plain muscular tissue—the arrectores—are connected with the hair-follicle (see Plate). These, which were discovered by Kolliker, arise by a number of fasciculi from the superficial part of ^ See on the structure of the hair-follicle v. Brunu. in Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xliv. 1895, and op. cit. - Giovannini (Anat. Anz. xxxii. 1908) finds that in some of the hairs of the beard the papillte are divided at the summit into two or three.