588 LUNC;S The bronchial veins have not quite so extensive a distribution in the lung as the bronchial arteries, since part of the blood carried by the bronchial arteries is returned by the pulmonary veins. The superficial and deep bronchial veins unite at the root of the lung, opening on the right side into the large azygos, and on the left usually into the left upper azygos vein. Accordina; to Zuckerkandl it is not only at the extremities of the bronchial tubes that the blood brought by the bronchial arteries is returned by the pulmonary veins, but in other parts small bronchial veins open into pulmonary branches ; and even veins which receive branches from the larger bronchia, from the bronchial glands, and from the posteriori) surface of the pericardium, empty their contents partly into the great trunks of the pulmonary veins. A few small branches of the intercostal arteries pass to the pulmonary pleura and surface of the Irmg through the ligamentum latum pulmonis (Turner). Iiymphatics.—The veins are accompanied by lymphatics, which commence both in the interalveolar tissue and under the pleura, and pass to lymphatic glands at the root of the lung. Others, which eventually join these, accompany the arteries, and others are found in the walls of the bronchial tubes. In the larger bronchial tubes there may be two plexuses, one in the mucous membrane, the other outside the cartilages ; the plexus in the mucous membrane lies deeper than the blood- capillaries. There are no lymph-vessels distal to the lobular bronchioles. The lymph-vessels of the bronchia send branches to join those of the pulmonary arteries and veins : these communicating branches come from the end of the lobular bron- chioles and from the places where the bronchial tubes branch. The mucous mem- brane of the bronchi is not infrequently the seat of an accumulation of lymph- corpuscles, which may take the form of distinct nodules ; the accumulations are especially well marked at the branchings of the tubes. Other accumulations of lymphoid tissue occur in the adventitia of the pulmonary arteries and veins, and under the pleura, but not as a rule in the form of nodules in the normal lung (Miller). The atria and infundibula (air-sacs) have no lymph-vessels in their walls. The lymphatics of the lung often contain large mononuclear leucocytes (phagocytes) with carbon particles in their interior. These particles are conveyed to and deposited in the connec- tive tissue of the lung in various parts, especially in those parts which contain lymphoid tissue’; some of them are carried to the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. Such particles scattered about in the interlobulaTconnective tissue give a slaty-grey appearance to the organ.^^The carbon particles^are introduced with the^air of[respiration and^appear to be conveyed from the interior of the alveoli into the pulmonary tissues bv the agency of leucocytes, which are^oftenlseen, in sections of lung, within the air-cells. Nerves of the lung*.—Nerves pass to the lung through the pulmonaryjplexuses both from the vagi and from the sympathetic system, the fibres of the former being medulla ted, of the latter chiefly non-medullated. They have ganglia upon their course, around the cells of which many of the medullated fibres end, but some— probably of afferent nature—pass without interruption to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes and also over the walls of the alveoli. Most of the efferent fibres are destined for tlm musculature of the bronchial tubes and blood-vessels. THE PLEUKA. The pleura has the usual structure of serous membranes. The costal part is the thicker, and may be easily raised from the ribs and intercostal spaces. It is strengthened here by a layer of subserous areolar tissue of considerable thickness. On the pericardium and diaphragm the pleura is thinner and more firmly adherent; it^ is thinnest; and least easily detached upon the surface of the lungs. A differ- ence is also noticeable in the character of the superficial epithelial layer, for while on the pleura costalis this consists of the ordinary flattened cells, on the 'pleura pulmonalis the cells are less distinctly flattened and more granular and polyhedral.