STRUCTURE OF NERVE-CENTRES 312 Cerebral hemispheres.—A section through the grey cortex of the cerebral hemispheres shows a less distinct stratification than one through that of the cerebellum. The general shape of the cells of the cerebral cortex is conical or pyramidal, and they are arranged vertically with the base towards the white centre, and the apex pass- ing towards the surface (fig. 489). The apex is always a dendron; it usually remains un- branched for a short dis- tance. It then bifurcates, and the branches again dividing similarly it becomes resolved into a spreading cluster of twigs, which interlace with those of other cells in the more superficial layers. From the body of each pyramidal cell other dendrons arise and ramify in the neigh- bourhood of the cyton. The axon arises from the base of the cell (sometimes from a dendron) and passes into the white centre: before it does so it gives ofi collaterals to the grey matter. In a few cases the axon turns up towards the superficial layers {cells of Martinotti). Certain cells are different from those described. Some have a pencil of dendrons pro- ceeding from either end of the spindle-shaped cell- body {douhle-hrush cells). Others are variable in shape {fohjmor'plious cells) tend- ing to be stellate: some of these belong to Golgi's second type, with the axon ramifying in the neigh- bourhood of the cell. The most superficial layer has characteristic horizontally disposed cells {cells of Cajal). Ill the rest of the thickness of the cortex the pyramidal cells increase in Fig. 484.—Types of cells of the cortex cerebri and their ARRANGEMENT. (From L. F. Barker, after Starr, Strong, and Learning.) b, c, horizontal cells of Cajal in superficial layer; d, e, small G, pyramids; /, a medium pyramid; g, g, large pyramids ; k, vi, n, cells of Golgi’s second type, with axon ending in grey matter near cell-body; vi, a cell sending its axon towards the surface ; 2^> polymorphous cells; r, r, afferent fibres to cortex from white matter.