EPITHELIUM 96 bridge across the intercellular spaces were described by Ranvier as passing through the protoplasm of the cells. * According to Cajal,^ they are covered by a prolongation of cell-membrane. A similar view is taken by Ide, who describes the cell-membrane as reticulated.^ A radiating system of fibrils has also been shown to occur in the pavement-epithelium cells which cover the posterior surface of the cornea (see fig. 133), and in this case also the fibrils traverse the intercellular spaces, passing from one cell into another. Fibrillation of the cells of a stratified epithelium is not confined to the deeper layers, but extends even to the cells of the horny stratum,^ and, according to several authors,is intimately associated with the condition of keratinisation. Stratified epithelium occurs in one of its simplest and most typical forms covering the anterior surface of the cornea of the eye, where in man there are about six layers of cells (fig. 153). A still simpler kind, containing only four layers of cells and with some mucus-secreting cells in the second layer, is described by Koch as occurring on the third eyelid of certain animals (fig. 159).*^ Stratified epithelium also lines the mouth, the chief part of the pharynx, and the oesophagus, and in the female the vagina and part of the cervix uteri; but its most extensive dis- tribution is over the surface of the skin, where it forms the epidermis. In many parts of the epidermis the layers become very numerous and their arrangement somewhat com- plicated, as will be particularly noticed in the description of the skin. It may be remarked that, in most of the situations where it is found, stratified epithelium is of ectodermic origin; but this is not invariably the case, and its occur- rence depends much more upon the physiological conditions of the parts which it covers. Thus, wherever a surface is liable to undergo friction or abrasion, there we find a development of this variety of epithelium. The deeper protoplasmic cells of a stratified epithelium are continually multi- plying by karyokinetic division,^ and, as the new cells which are thus produced in the deeper parts increase in size, they compress and push outwards those previously formed. In this way cells which were at first deeply seated, become gradually shifted towards the surface, undergoing meanwhile the chemical change above spoken of. The older superficial cells are continually being removed by abrasion, while others rise up to supply their place. Where stratified epithelium becomes continued into epithelium of the columnar kind, as at the junction of the oesophagus with the stomach, the change usually occurs abruptly, and the simple columnar epithelium seems to be a continuation of the deepest (or columnar) layer of cells of the stratified epithelium. But at the junction of the columnar epithelium of the rectum with the stratified / 3 Fig. 159.—Section of epithelium of third eyelid OF CAT, SHOWING MUCUS-SECRETING CELLS IN A STRATIFIED EPITHELIUM. (R. Koch.) 1 Cf. Herscheimer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. liv. 1899. ^ Int. Monatschr. f. Anat. u. Histol. iii. 1886. ^ La Cellule, iv. 1888 and v. 1889. See also on the intercellular channels and bridges in stratified epithelium, S. Garten, Arch. f. Anat. 1895. 4 L. Merk, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivi. 1900. •5 Weidenreich, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivi. 1901, and Ivii. 1901 ; Apolant, ibid. Ivii. 1901; Nussbaum, Anat. Hefte, xxxix. 1909. “ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixiii. 1903. Koch terms this ‘mixed’ epithelium. A similar epithelium was described in the caruncula of man by L. Stieda (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxvi. 1890). Stieda regarded the ‘ mucus-secreting ’ cells of Koch as degenerated cells. ' Hanseman, Virchow Festschr. 1891.