TESTICLE 626 masses are also found in the ejaculated semen after evaporation (Bottcher) : these, which contain a base named spermin, are probably derived from the seeretion of the prostatic glands. The interstitial cells are found in the foetus in considerable number, but their amount diminishes relatively during childhood, to become inereased again at puberty. In animals whieh are subject to seasonal ehanges they are most developed during the periods of sexual activity. Rudimentary structures found in connexion with the testis and epididymis.— The appendix of the testicle (hydatid of Morgagni) is a small pedunculated body which lies over the upper part of the organ (fig. 912, h), its peduncle being attached at the angle between the testicle and epididymis. It is convex externally and concave where it rests on the testicle, and is surrounded by an extension of the serous coat of the gland. The surface, whieh is often smooth but may be deeply corrugated, is covered with ciliated epithehum. The appendix is composed of avascular connective tissue, which contains some plain muscle. Within it is a closed tube with narrow lumen, lined either by ciliated or by simple columnar epithelium. The lumen of the tube may be dilated; it is found sometimes to open into the serous cavity of the tunica vaginahs testis. The appendix of the testicle is developed from the free or upper extremity of the Miillerian duct. Another somewhat similar strueture, of pyri- form shape, the appendix of the epididymis, which is also sometimes referred to as a hydatid of Morgagni, is often found attached to the upper or lateral surface of the head of the epididymis by a distinet stalk. It is composed, like the appendix testis, of a vaseular eonnective tissue ; it, however, contains an elongated closed cavity of relatively considerable lumen, fiUed with fluid and lined by eolumnar or cfliated epithelium. The cavity is sometimes subdivided into smaller parts, and both these and the single cavity may be eonsiderably dilated. The sur- face is covered by serous endothehum. In the child the. cavity or cavities may communicate with that of the tunica vaginahs. The stalk contains bundles of plain muscular tissue. According to Kobelt this hydatid is deve- loped from the remains of some of the tubules of the Wolffian body, but it seems more pro- bable that it owes its origin, as suggested by Toldt, to a portion of the Mullerian duct. What appears to be remains of a part of the Wolffian duct is met with in connexion with the rete testis, and consists of a tubule, some- what like a vas efferens, whieh may be dilated into one or more small cysts. This is termed the appendix of the rete. Vas aberrans.—This name was apphed by Haller to a long narrow tube, or divertieulum (fig. 890, i), discovered by liim, and almost in- variably met with, whieh leads off from the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or from the commencement of the vas deferens, and, be- coming tortuous and eonvoluted, is rolled up into an elongated'mass which extends upwards for an ineh or more amongst the vessels of the spermatic cord ; here the tube ends by a closed extremity. Its length, when unravelled, ranges from about 5 to 30 centimetres ; its width incieases towards its blind extremity. Sometimes this diverticulum is branched; occasionally there are two or more such aberrant ducts. Its structure appears to bo similar to that of the vas deferens. Its origin is probably oonneeted with the Wolffian duct of the foetus. Luschka states that occasionally it does not communicate with the canal of the epididymis. Roth has described other small blind vasa aberrantia lying along the epididymis and connected with the rete testis. Pig. 912.—The left tunica vaginalis opened, SHOWING THE TESTIS, EPIDIDYMIS, &C., FROM THE OUTER SIDE. (Allen Tliomson.) p,2J, cut edges of the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis drawn aside; t, body of the testis; e, e', epididymis; /, a fold of the tunica vaginalis passing from the body of the testis to the side. In the upper part of the figure the tunica vaginalis has been dissected off at the place of its reflexion on. the cord to show v d, the vas deferens, and g, the organ of Giraldes; Or, the three small nodules of this organ enlarged about ten times, and showing the remains of tubular structure within them; li, hydatid of Morgagni, or aiipendix of the testicle.