HEART 322 fibres. The tunica profunda of the epicardiuni contains larger blood-vessels and fat-cells, and is continuous with the connective tissue found in the myocardium. Myocardium.—The structure of heart-muscle ha« already been discussed (pp. 197 to 202). The arrangement of the fibres is complicated, passing, as they do, in different layers, obliquely, transversely, or vertically, and terminating in the fibrous tissue forming the annular rings at the base of the ventricles, and in the chordae tendineae of the papillary muscles. Many fibres are common to the two sides of the heart, passing across the median septum between the auricles and that between the ventricles. But on the other hand, at least in mammals, the fibres of the auricles are not continued into those of the ventricles except in the case of one small bundle—the auriculo-ventricular bundle '—although such continuity is extensive in lower vertebrates.'^ The bundle in question consists of fibres which are more embryonic (less differentiated) than the cardiac fibres generally. They are gathered from various parts of the right auricle and auricular septum, but mainly from near the entrance of the coronary sinus, and becoming parallel run forwards into a nodular mass of plexiform structure (node of Tawara) which lies in the inter- auricular septum close to the septum fibrosum between auricles and ventricles. From this node the bundle passes downwards through the septum fibrosum to the upper part of the ventricular septum and divides into two branches which are distributed to the two ventricles, spreading out as they pass to their destination under the endocardium. In the sheep they are continuous with the fibres of Purkinje (Tawara). Another plexiform mass of similar fibres lies in the wall of the right auricle close to the entrance of the superior cava (Keith and Flack). It is here that the cardiac contractions probably originate. It is richly supplied with nerve-fibres from both vagus and sympathetic. Endocardium.—The endocardium (figs. 497, 498) forms a complete lining to the whole of the auricular and ventricular cavities, covering the valves, chordse tendinese, and papillary muscles. It may be com- pared to the wall of a vessel, such as the aorta, but with the additional development outside it of a muscular portion, the myocardium. It shows in some regions a division into three tunics—tunica intima, media, and adven- titia. The intima is bounded on the side next the blood by a single layer of endothelial cells, which are much more isodiametric than are the corresponding- cells in the blood-vessels, but a slight elongation may always be made out. The outlines of these cells are readily revealed by silver nitrate. Immediately external to the endothelium is a fine layer of delicate connective tissue, which abuts on the tunica media. The 1 Stanley Kent, Journ. Physiol, xiv. 1893 ; W. His, jun. Arbeiten aus d. ined. Klin, zu Leipzig, 1893; also in Wiener klinisclie Bliitter, 1894; Retzer, Arch. f. Anat. 1904 ; Braunig, Arch. f. Physiol. 1904 (Su))pl.); Tawara,Zentr. f. Physiol, xix. 1905, and Das Reizleitungssystem des Siiugethierherzens, 190G; Keith and Flack, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, xli. 1907; Wenckebach. Arch. f. Physiol. 1907: Wilson, Proc. Roy. Soc. Ixxxi.B, 1909; Aschoff, Deutsche ined. Wochensch. Nov. 1909; Cohn and Trendelenburg, Pfliiger’s Arch, cxxxi. 1910. ^ Gaskell, Journ, of Physiol, v. 43. Fig. 497. —Endoc.\rdium of right auricle. (Mann.) ft, endothelial lining of tunica intima ; b, -white fibrous tissue of tunica intima; c, elastic layer composed of very fine elastic fibres and membranes, collectively resembling the internal elastic lamina of medium-sized blood-vessels; d, tunica media with coarser bundles of white fibrous tissue than in the intima, with very few elastic fibres; e, outer elastic lamina ; /, tunica adven- titia, containing many coarse elastic fibres arranged in a definite layer around the muscle-bundles, g; h, perimysium internum.