o o 2 THE LIVER. The liver, by far the largest gland in the body, forms a solid mass of a brovTiish-yellow colour, but of a dark-red and somewhat mottled appearance when its vessels are hlled with blood. It occupies the uppermost part of the ab- dominal cavity, and is closely invested by a layer of peritoneum, which is reflected from it in the form of the so-called ligaments of the liver. Besides this serous cover- ing the liver has a thin capsule composed of connective tissue. Structure and distribution of blood-vessels.—The liver is composed of a very large number of minute portions, each about one millimetre in diameter, known as the hepatic lobules {fig. SIS). It differs from all other externally secreting glands in the body in the fact that these lobules are solid masses of cells, and the p d a Fig. 819.—Longitudinal section of a PORTAL CANAL, CONTAINING A PORTAL VEIN, HEPATIC ARTERY, AND HEPATIC DUCT, FROM THE PIG. (After Kiernaii.) About 5 diameters. p, branch of vena portse, situated in a portal canal, formed amongst the lobules of the liver; jj, jti, larger branches of portal vein, giving off smaller ones named inter- lobular veins; there are also seen within the large portal vein numerous orifices of interlobular veins arising directly from it; fl, hepatic artery; rf, biliary duct; at c, the venous wall has been partially removed. c Fig. 818.—Section of a portion of liver passing LONGITUDINALLY THROUGH A CONSIDERABLE HEPATIC VEIN, FROM THE PIG. (After Kiernan.) About 5 diameters. H, hepatic venous trunk, against which the sides of the lobules are apiilied; //, 7i, sublobular hepatic veins, on which the bases of the lobules rest, and through the coats of which they are seen as polygonal figures; i, mouth of the intralobular veins, opening into the sublobular veins; i', intralobular veins shown passing up the centre of some divided lobules; c, c, walls of the hepatic venous canal, with the polygonal bases of the lobules. ducts proper remain at their periphery, communicating with the interior of the lobule only by secretory canaliculi, the hile-canaliculi. A further difference is to be found in the character of the blood supplied to the organ, which is mainly venous, collected into the portal vein from the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas. The liver receives also a certain amount of arterial blood brought to it by the hepatic artery. Both portal vein and hepatic artery enter the portal fissure on the under- surface of the organ along with the hepatic duct, and the branches of all three are conducted to every part of the liver, ensheathed by a loose connective tissue termed the capsule of Glisson, which passes in at the portal fissure and lies everywhere