98 EPITHELIUM distended bladder, but almost cubical in shape when taken from the collapsed organ ; smooth over their free surface—which, according to Eggeling, is covered by a thin cuticular stratum—but pitted on the opposite side, being moulded over the rounded ends of the cells which form the next layer. These are pyriform, and the smaller end of the pear is set upon the subjacent connective tissue, whilst the larger end has the position just mentioned. Filling up the intervals between these tapering cells are the smaller irregular cells of the subjacent layers (fig. 160). In the flattened superficial cells two nuclei may often be seen in each cell: they are said to be produced amitotically (p. 39). If this is an indication that the cell is about to divide, the mode of growth of this kind of epithelium must be different from that of the stratified scaly variety, in which the multiplication of the cells takes place exclusively in the deeper layers. This variety of protective epithelium is termed ‘ transitional,’ as indicating a character intermediate between the simple epithelia with a single layer of cells and the more complex stratified epithelium which consists of a number of layers. Fig. 162.—Epithelial cells from the bladder of the rabbit. (Klein.) Highly magnified. a, large flattened cell from the superficial layer, with two nuclei, and with strongly marked ridges and intervening depressions on its under surface; n', one of the same cells shown in profile; 6, pear-shaped cell of the second layer showing the manner in which it is adapted to a depression on the superficial cell. The transitional epithelium of the bladder and ureters affords a striking example of the extensibility and elasticity of epithelium-cells, as shown by the manner in which it adapts itself to the variations in size of the cavity which it lines (figs. 160 and 161).^ SPECIAL MODIFICATIONS OF EPITHELIAL TISSUE. Special modifications of eiDitlielium are met with in certain situations in the body, and notably forming the enamel of the teeth and the substance of the crystalline lens of the eye. The pigment layer of the retina is also to be reckoned in this category, together with the pigmented epithelium which is prolonged in front of the retina over the choroid processes and posterior surface of the iris. Further, aU the integumental appendages in vertebrates are essentially of epithelial nature, including the scales of reptiles, the feathers and beak of birds, the hairs, hoofs, claws, and nails of mammals. These integumental structures (fig. 163) are entirely composed of keratinised epithelium-ceUs, elongated or flattened and arranged in compact formation, and all have as a foundation from which to grow a layer or layers of protoplasmic epithelium resting upon a vascular connective-tissue corium. In many of these structures pigment of various colours is deposited within the cells before keratinisation occurs. * R. W. Harvey, Auat. Record, iii. 1900.