MUSCULAK TISSUE 172 MUSCULAR TISSUE. Muscular tissue is that by means of which tlie active movements of the body are produced. It consists of fibres collected into muscles, generally of a red colour, and in this form it is familiarly known as the flesh of animals. The fibres, from the charac- teristic appearance which they exhibit under the microscope, are usually known as ‘ cross-striped ’ or ‘ striated ’ ; they are many of them under the control of the will, and are hence often spoken of as ‘ voluntary ’ muscles. Those which are attached to and serve to move parts of the skeleton are also known as ‘ skeletal ’ muscles. Another kind of muscular tissue is disposed around the blood-vessels and most of the hollow viscera, often forming a distinct coat or coats to these. In this kind the fibres do not exhibit the same cross-striated appearance, and they have there- fore been termed in contradistinction ‘ smooth,’ ‘ plain,’ or ‘ non-striated ’ muscular fibres. Most of these are entirely withdrawn from the control of the will, and thev are therefore also termed ‘‘ involuntary.’ The muscular tissue of the heart, although having a cross-striated appearance, diflters in many respects from that of the skeletal muscles : it is therefore described separately under the term ‘ cardiac ’ muscular tissue. Muscular fibres are endowed with contractility, by virtue of which they shrink or contract more or less rapidly under the influence of certain causes which are capable of exciting or calling into play the property in question, and which are therefore named stimuli. STRUCTURE OP CROSS-STRIATED OR SKELETAL MUSCLES. The skeletal muscular fibres are for the most part gathered into distinct muscles of various sizes and shapes, but generally elongated, and furnished with tendons at each extremity, by which they are fixed to the bones. The fibres are in the first place collected into bundles, of greater or less thickness, named fasciculi (lacerti) (fig. 259). The fibres are parallel in the fasciculi; and the fasciculi extend continuously from one terminal tendon to the other, except in a few instances, like the rectus muscle of the abdomen and the digastric of the a B Fig. 259.—A, small poktion of muscle, CONSISTING OF LAKGER AND SMALLER FASCICULI, NATURAL SIZE ; B, THE SAME MAGNIFIED 5 DIAMETERS, SHOWING A TRANSVERSE SECTION. (Sharpey.) Fig. 260.—A few muscular fibres, being PART OF A SM.\LL FASCICULUS, MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (Sliai'pey.) b, b, fibres : a, end view ; c, a fibre splitting up into longitudinal elements. inferior maxilla, in which the fleshy part is interrupted by interposed tendinous tissue. The fasciculi also very generally run parallel, and, although in many instances they converge towards their tendinous attachment with various degrees