NERVE-ENDINOS •284 the spinal ganglia) which are situated in the roots of the nerves just referred to, and they end peripherally, after losing their sheaths at the base of the taste-bud, by a fibrillar arborescence which lies amongst the gustatory cells (fig. 450). The centrally directed axon passes along the nerve-root to terminate in the grey matter of the pons. Taste-buds are found most abundantly in the tongue at the sides of the circumvallate papillae and in the neighbourhood of these papillae, but also in other parts of that organ, as well as on the under surface of the soft palate and on the posterior surface of the epiglottis. In the rabbit large numbers of taste-buds are found in the papilla foliata which lies on either Fig. 451.—Plan of the membbanous side of the base of the tongue, and it is here Tu. that they are most easily studied. FiBKEs ABE DisTBiBUTED. (Scliiifer.) IHodc of ending* of nerves in the ti, utricle with its macula; s.s.c., e.s.c., ancl^?.S.C., superior, external, and posterior semicircular canals, each with an am- pulla ; s, saccule; s.e., saccus endo- lymphaticus; c.r., canalis reuniens; C.C., canal of cochlea. org*an of hearing-. — In the two parts of the internal ear—viz. the cochlea and the vestibule, with its semicircular, canals, the mode of ending of the nerve-fibres is, on the whole, similar to that described for the gustatory organ, the fibres terminating by a fibrillar arborescence between and around certain specially modified epithelium-cells. Fig. 452.—Photogbafii of a section thbough the cbista of an ampulla of the GUINEA-PIG. (Fx’om a preparation by H. Pringle.) In the lowest part of the section bundles of nerve-fibres are seen passing through the bone and turning up into the loose tissue below the crista. The epithelium-cells of the crista are pear-shaped, and are surmounted by hairlets which project into a mucinous material. In the vestibule (utricle and saccule) and in the ampullae of the semicircular canals there are certain patches (fig. 451) in the interior of the membranous labyrinth over which the somewhat flattened and simple