376 THE BLOOD The development of blood-corpuscles in isolated patches in the vascular area of the chick was first recognised by Pander.' Remak and Kollilier ^ described the first vessels in the vascular area of the chick as originating in the form 'of a solid cord of mesodermic cells, arranged so as to form a network ; the peripheral cells of the vascular cords becoming flattened and forming the epithelium of the vessels, whilst the centrally placed cells become directly converted into blood-corpuscles, acquiring colour flrst of all at certain points—the blood-islands of Pander— and fluid accumulates between them to form the liquor sanguinis. W. His '* stated that the blood-vessels within the body of the embryo originate as ingrowths from these vessels of the vascular area, which are themselves produced not from the ordinary cells of the mesoderm, but from special cells (parablast-cells of His) near the periphery of the blastoderm, which give origin not only to blood and blood-vessels, but to the connective tissues generally. Strieker * described Fig. 568.—Pakt of a blood-vessel feom the yolk-sac op the rabbit-embbyo, show- ing THE CELLS WHICH ARE CONCERNED WITH THE FORMATION OF ERYTHROCYTES. (Maximow.) a, megaloblasts; a', one in mitosis ; b, normoblasts, some becoming transformed into erythro- blasts ; b', one in mitosis; c, erythroblasts : the nuclei of these are less chromatic and in one or two have almost disappeared; cl, an erythrocyte fully formed but not discoid ; en, endothelial cells; I, lymphoblasts; k, a divided erythroblast; 7Z, erythroblasts somewhat shrunken and with atrophying nucleus; n', a nucleus which has been extruded. the formation of blood-vessels by the hollowing out of connective-tissue cells, and Afanasieff “ and Klein ^ stated that the blood-islands of Pander are hollowed-out cells, in the interior of which blood-corpuscles make their appearance, and that the containing cells become the first blood- vessels. Klein’s account was follow^ed, and in some particulars modified, by F. M. Balfour.** A similar account of the formation of vessels and blood-corpuscles from a syncytium of mesenchyme- cells in the vascular area of mammals, derived from observations upon the embryo of the guinea- pig, was given in former editions of this work. According to Maximow in the rabbit** and Dantschakoff in the chick,“* the blood-islands ’ Entwickl. d. Hiihnchens im Ei, 1817. ^ Gewebelehre, Transl. by Busk and Huxley, 1853. Wiener Sitzungsb. 1865-6. Ibid. 1871; and Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. 1872. ** Op. cit. Entwickl. d. Wirbelth. 1851. Untersuchungen, &c., 1868. c Ibid. 1866. « Ibid. xiii. 1878. Anat. Hefte, xxxviii. 1909.