BLOOD-VESSELS 328 On the other hand, Valedinsky and Smirnow describe ganglion-cells along the course of the nerves down to the very apex of the heart (figs. 507 and 508). Valedinsky also found ganglion-cells to be present in the middle third of the ven- tricular septum. Dogiel finds numerous ganglia in the subpericardium of the auricles, while in the subpericardium of the ventricles ganglion-cells are rare. These ganglion-cells, according to Dogiel, are connected with two distinct types of nerve-terminations. Those of the first type, derived from other ganglia, terminate by forming plexuses around both the nerve-cells and their processes, Fig. 510.—Ending of nebves in heart ganglia. (Dogiel.) On the right is shown the terminal arborescence of a nerve-fibre; on the left a group of ganglion-cells belonging to type 2 of Dogiel’s sympathetic cells. but without the nerve-fibres piercing the capsule of the ganglion-cell (fig. 509). The second class of nerve-terminations is spinal-ganglionic in origin. These nerve-fibres are always medullated, but now and then lose their medullary sheath between two nodes of Ranvier. Each fibre supphes several ganglia, giving ofi two to three branches, which after repeated division pierce the capsule of the ganglion- cells and come thus to lie in direct contact with the cell-body, forming true pericellular nets (fig. 510). From the small-celled type of ganglion-cells, which are most numerous, fine non-medullated nerve-fibres pass into the myocardium. Other cells serve by their processes to bring about communications with neighbourmg ganglia. BLOOD-VESSELS. ARTERIES. These vessels were originally supposed to contain air. This error, which had long prevailed in the schools of medicine, was refuted by Galen, who showed that the vessels called arteries, though for the most part found empty after death, really contain blood in the living body. The total capacity of the blood-vessels is equal to holding from four to five times the amount of blood normally present, if we judge by the amount of