72 VITAL PHENOMENA OF PROTOPLASM fluid over the surface which they cover, and, witli the exception of the cilia of the cerebral ventricles and central canal of the spinal cord, this movement is always in the direction of the exterior. Thus they serve to move the mucus which moistens the interior of the air-tubes and trachea towards the orifice of the larynx, that which moistens the nasal passages towards the anterior nares, and that of the Fallopian tubes and uterus towards the os uteri. Although very widely distributed throughout the animal kingdom, there are some exceptions, such as the arthropods, which possciss no cilia and in which the spermatozoa also are not provided with a moving filament. In mammals and in vertebrates generally cilia are very fine and comparatively short, but in inverte- brates, and especially in Protozoa, they are frequently larger and longer. Many unicellular organisms, both animal and vegetable, are provided with one or two relatively large cilia, which generally serve ll as organs of locomotion : these are often rj termed flagella. In Noctiluca miliaris (fig. 113) the flagellum has an indistinct transversely striated appearance along one border ; most cilia, however, show no trace of structure, but look like direct con- Fig. 112.—Pour ciliated cells of MOLLUSC, (v. Lenhossek.) Fig. 113.—Noctiluca miliaris, a unicellular PHOSPHORESCENT MARINE ORGANISM PROVIDED WITH A SINGLE L.VRGE FLAGELLUM. (Verwom.) tinuations of the cytoplasm. In the spermatozoon the tail or cilium contains a fine fibril or fibrils, continued from the centrosome which lies within the body or middle piece. In some ciliated cells, such as the large cells which line the intestine of certain molluscs, the cilia are provided near the cell with bulb-like enlargements (figs. 112, 114), which, again, are attached to or continuous with similar enlargements {basal -particles) at the free border of the cell. Moreover, in these cells fine fibrils traverse the length of the cell from its free border to its fixed extremity (fig. 114). These fibrils are known as the rootlets of the cilia.' Although specially well developed in some ciliated cells, they appear to be similar in character to the fibrils forming the cyto-mitome in columnar epithelium-cells (fig. 19). It is doubtful if they have 1 Engelmaim, PHiiger’s Arch, xxiii. 1880. See also J. Frenzel, Ai-ch. f. mikr. Anat. xxviii. 1880 ; and Vignon, Arch, de zool. expcr. viii. 1900.