EPIDERMIS 449 them is in a fluid condition. Superficial to it is a stratum which in some parts of the skin is of considerable thickness, and in which the cells are mucli enlarged, and the nuclei in many cases no longer visible : still nearer the surface this passes into a stratum of hard flattened scales which are constantly being thrown off by desquamation. As the cells change their form, their contents undergo chemical and physical changes; for in the rete mucosum they consist of a soft, fibrillar, protoplasmic matter, whilst the superficial cells are transparent, dry, and horny. These dry hard scales may be made to reassume their cell-form by exposure for a few minutes to a solution of caustic potash or soda, and then to water. Under this treatment they are softened by the alkali, and distended by imbibition of water. As Zander ^ pointed out, there are two types of horny layers in the epidermis. The epidermis covering the greater part of the surface of the body has a stratum corneum composed exclusively of thin flattened scales which have lost all appear- ance of structure, although on treatment with dilute caustic alkali they swell up and assume the appearance of small vesicles ; this is probably an indication that only the external layer of each cell is fully keratinised. On the other hand the horny stratum covering those parts of the skin which have a thicker epidermis and are not provided with hairs, is mainly composed of large swollen-out cells, with a central cavity representing the nucleus. These cells are permeated by a feltwork of fine fibrils which intercross in every direction. The cells in question appear to represent the epitrichial layer which during a certain period of foetal development covers the whole surface of the body, but is thrown off where the hairs become developed (see next page). The keratinisation process in the epidermis seems to involve the part of the endoplasm between the cell-fibrils.* According to Weidenreich ^ the interfibrillar substance of the cells of the horny layer is altered eleidin (pareleidin), and the keratin is confined to the membranous outer layer. In the scaly cells at the surface the fibrillar structure is more difficult to demonstrate, but is probably present. ^ Arch. f. Anat. 1888. - Apolant, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1901. ^ Ihid. Ivi. 1900, and Ivii. 1901. Fig. 657.—Section of epidermis from the skin OF THE FINGER, COLOURED BY PICROCARMINE. (Ranvier.) a, stratum corneum; h, stratum lucidum, some of the cells of which are filled with eleidin; c, stratum granulosum, full of eleidin granules or drop- lets ; d, spiny cells of rete mucosum; e, denticula- tions of deepest cells, for attachment to cutis vera. Fig. 658.—Skin of the negro, verti- cal SECTION. (Kijlliker.) Magnified 250 diameters. a, a, cutaneous papillte; b, under- most and dark-coloured layer of oblong vertical epidermis-cells ; c, Malpighian layer; d, horny layer. VOL. II. PART I. G G