67G INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS Jan. 1909 ; Carlson and Jacobso}i, Amer. Journ. Physiol, xxviii. 1911. apt to be left behind, even when the thyroid itself and all the tissue that surrounds it have been cut away.' Tetany has been observed in man as the result of parathyroidectomy : the implantation of (human) parathyroid appears to be the only permanently efficacious remedy,- although the symptoms may be temporarily relieved by extract of pituitary or of parathyroid and by certain salts.® THE THYMUS GEAHD. The thymus is composed of two lateral lobes, sometimes united by a median isthmus (fig. 973). It is invested by a thin capsule of areolar tissue, which sends partitions into the gland : on its outer surface the capsule is covered by a layer of flattened cells. Each lobe consists of numerous polyhedral primary lobules, con- nected by a more delicate intervening areolar tissue. These primary lobules are made up of a number of secondary or ultimate lobules (also termed follicles) (fig. 974), one to two millimetres in diameter. Each of these ultimate lobules is composed of a central part or medulla, and an external part or cortex. The cortex is in many respects similar in structure to that of a lymph-gland, being subdivided by inward prolongations of the connective tissue investing the secondary lobule, but in man these partitions do not extend beyond the cortex. The cortex contains a fine Fig. 974.—Section of a secondaby lobule of the thymus of a child. (Schafer.) c, cortex of the lobule partly separated into nodules by the trabeculae, tr\ b b, blood-vessels; and c, c, concentric corpuscles in the medulla. reticulum, the meshes being filled wdth lymphoid cells (lymphocytes, thymus corpuscles). In some animals the subdivision of the cortex is complete and extends to the medulla. The medulla is surrounded by cortex, but comes to the exterior of the lobule here and there, where it is joined to the medulla of adjacent lobules (fig. 982) : it is usually at these points that the blood-vessels enter the medulla. The reticulum of the medulla is coarser than that of the cortex; it contains here and tnere nests of ■cells which have a concentric structure, and are known as the concentric corpuscles of Hassall. They vary in size from 0.025 mm. to three times that diameter, or more ; the larger ones (compound corpuscles) often contain smaller ones in their interior (figs. 975, 976). ^ In some animals {e.g. rat, rabbit) parathyroids may be found imbedded in the thymus (Erdheim, Mitth. a. d. Grenzgebieten d. Med. u. Chir. xvi. 1906 ; Pipere, Arch. ital. de biol. xlix. 1908). ^ For a case of this kind see W. H. Brown, Annals of Surgery, liii. 1911. ^ Macallum and Voegtlin, Journ. Exp. Med. xi. 1909 (calcium, strontium); Ott, ‘ The Parathyroid Glandules,’ Phila. 1909; Joseph and Meltzer, Journ. Pharm. and Exp. Ther. ii. 1911 (sodium chloride). See further on the effect of parathyroid extirpation Halsted, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. cxxxiv. 1907; Thompson, Leighton, and Swarts, Journ. Med. Research, xxi. 1909 ; Glaserfeld, Berlin klin. Wochenschr.