244 IIlS'rOGENESTS OF NEFVES The fibres wliicli are thus first formed are axis-cylinders, or will become such. They are accompanied or followed by an outgrowth of the neural ectoderm, the cells of which form the sheath of Schwann.^ They also become surrounded by cells from the adjacent mesoderm, which penetrate between them, and eventually produce the connective tissue of the nerve-sheath (epineurium, perineurium, endoneurium). In the nerve-centres very little connective tissue passes between the nerve-fibres, which are there supported by the spongioblasts (see p. 205). These are cells which have a common (ectodermic) origin with the neuroblasts, although their function, according to His, is early differentiated." From the spongioblasts, neuroglia-cells appear ultimately to be produced, and these, within the central nervous system, take on much the same supporting function connective tissue. The medullary sheath does not make its appearance until a com- paratively late period of embryonic life, and there is some doubt as to its mode of formation. It first closely ensheaths the axis-cylinder, and is itself ensheathed bv the xJ nucleated neurolemma or sheath of Schwann (fig. 382). Some authors refer the formation of the medullary sheath to the cells which compose the nucleated sheath of Schwann, but it is more probable that it is actually formed by the axis-cylinder, or by the protoplasm which forms the peripheral layer of the axis-cylinder in its embryonic condition, and for the following reasons—viz. (1) that in the central nervous system the medullated nerve-fibres never at any time possess this nucleated sheath ; (2) that in regenerating nerve-fibres, a thin medullary sheath appears aroimd the growing axis-cylinders before these are surrounded by a nucleated sheath. The neurolemma or sheath of Schwann, on the other hand, appears certainly to be formed by cells which have applied themselves to and have become flattened out around the pre-formed axis-cylinder. Whether they are to be regarded as of mesodermic origin (Vignal,"^ Kolliker‘’), or whether they have been derived from appears as a thin layer of myelin, not infrequently interrupted, which which is elsewhere fulfilled mainly by Fig. 3S2. —Stages in the formation of the MYELIN OF THE MEDULLARY SHEATH IN NERVE- FIBRES. (Bardeen.) Tlie neiglibourliood of the nodes of Kanvier remains free from myelin later than the rest of the nerve-fibre. 1 Schaper (Arch. f. Entwickelungsgesch. v. 1897) distinguishes two kinds of migratory cells-^viz. syuqjdthetic oieiirohlasts and indifferent cells. R. G. Harrison (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ivii. 1901) regards the migrating cells as probably forming the motor cells of the sj'inpathetic ganglia. Kohn (Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixx. 1907) and Carpenter and Main (Anat. Anz. xxxi. 1907) also suggest that some of these cells which wander out from the neural ectoderm may become motor sympathetic cells. Kunz (Anat. Record, iii. 1909) considers the migratory cells to be of two kinds, one forming the ganglion-cells of the sympathetic and the other being sheath-cells. Kunz (Anat. Anz. xxxv. 1909) describes a similar migration along the vagus nerve both from its ganglion and from the neural canal, the migratory cells forming ganglia in the viscera supplied by the vagus. - Cajal, however, states that many of the neuroblasts are directly derived from cells which are identical with the spongioblasts of His. ^ It is not certain that all neuroglia-cells are derived from ectoderm elements. Andriezen (Brit. Med. Journ. 1898) described two types of these cells, one with long unbranched fibre-like processes (spider- cells), the other with dendritic processes, and suggested that the latter may owe their origin to mesodermic elements (see also on this subject, Hatai, Journ. Comp. Neurol, xii. 1902). Arch, de physiol. 1883 and 1884. See also Boycott, Journ. Physiol. 1903. ■' Gewebelehre.