360 LYMPH-VESSELS usual structure occur here and there. A difierence is noticeable in the endothelium upon the two surfaces of the valves similar to that which has been noticed in the valves of the veins (see p. 340). Valves are not present in all lymphatics, but where they exist they follow one another at much shorter intervals than those of the veins, and give to the lymphatics, when distended, a beaded or jointed appearance (see figs. 548, 549). Valves are also placed at the entrance of the lymphatic trunks into the great veins of the neck. They are very abundant in the lymph-vessels of the mesentery. They are as a rule wanting or imperfect in the lacunae and plexuses of origin ; so that fluid injected into one of these vessels runs in all directions. Ailing to a greater or less extent the whole plexus, and then passing along the separate vessels which issue from the organ. The lymphatics of flsh and amphibia are in most cases destitute of valves, and may therefore be injected from the trunks; valves are also much less numerous in the lymphatics and lacteals of reptiles and birds than in those of mammals. Terminations of lymphatics.—The absorbent system discharges its contents into the blood-circulatory system at two points, namely, on the left side (by the thoracic duct) at the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, and on the right side (by the right lymphatic trunk) at the corresponding part of the venous system. The openings, as already remarked, are guarded by valves. It some- times happens that the thoracic duct divides, near its junction with the veins, into two or three short branches, which open separately but near each other ; more rarely a branch opens into the vena azygos—indeed the main vessel has been seen terminating in that vein. Again, it is not uncommon for larger branches, which usually join the thoracic duct, to open independently in the vicinity of the main termination ; this is more apt to happen with the branches which usually unite to form the right lymphatic trunk. Notwithstanding these variations the junctions with the great veins are conflned in man to the region of the neck ; in birds, reptiles, and Ashes, on the other hand, communications take place between the lymphatics of the lower part of the trunk and lower limbs and the sciatic or other veins of the abdomen or pelvis. Iiympliatic hearts.—J. Muller and Panizza, almost at the same time, but independently of each other, discovered that the lymphatic system of reptiles is furnished, at its principal terminations in the venous system, with pulsatile muscular sacs, which serve to discharge the lymph into the veins. These organs, which are named lymph-hearts, have now been found in all the different orders of reptiles and amphibia, and also in birds, but not in any mammal. In the frog and toad two pairs of lymph-hearts occur: a posterior pair, situated in the sciatic region, which pours its lymph into a branch of the sciatic or of some other neighbouring vein; and an anterior, more deeply seated pair, placed over the transverse processes of the third vertebra, and opening into branches of the jugular veins. The walls of these sacs are thin and transparent, but contain muscular tissue, which appears obscurely striated, decussating in different layers, as in the blood-heart. In their pulsations they are quite independent of the latter organ, and are not even synchronous with each other ; their beats are dependent upon connexion Avith the spinal cord. In adult reptiles (lizards, serpents, tortoises, and turtles) only a posterior pair has been discovered, which agree in all essential points with those of the frog. In the goose, and in other species of birds belonging to different orders, Panizza discovered a pair of lymph-sacs opening into the sacral veins ; and Stannius found that these sacs have striated muscular fibres in their walls. Some birds have an anterior as well as a j)osterior pair of lymph-hearts. Nerve- fibres, both dark-bordered and pale, have been observed in the lymph-hearts of the frog, and nerve-cells in those of the tortoise (Waldeyer).’ ^ Muller’s description is to be found in the Philosophical Transactions for 1831; Panizza’s, in a special memoir on the Lymphatic System of Reptiles, published in 1833. For an excellent account of the lymphatic hearts of the frog the reader is referred to the ‘ Levons d’anatomie generate ’ delivered by Professor Ranvier in the College de France in 1877-78, and published in 1880 and to the ‘ Traite technique ’ of the same author, 2nd edition, published in 1889.