41 CELL-DIVISION MITOTIC CELL-DIVISION : KARYOKINESIS. Ill by far the majority of cases of cell-division the nucleus undergoes a complex series of transformations preparatory to actual separation into two parts. These transformations are due to active changes in its structure and are intimately bound up with remarkable changes in the centrosome, which proceed pari passu with those of the nucleus. To this nuclear activity which is •characteristic of cell-division the term karyokinesis ‘ was applied by Schleicher to distinguish it from the passivity of the nucleus which was at that time supposed to be the chief feature of cell-division, this being then believed, as already explained, to be brought about by the activity of the protoplasm alone. The transformations of the nucleus during karyokinesis result in the separation of the nuclein or chromatin into a number of similar parts of equal size, constant in number for each species of animal: to these the name chromosomes has been applied.’^ In the majority of cases the chromosomes take the form of threads, and on this account the karyo- kinetic form of cell-division was ternled.m^^o^^c by Flemming, while the nuclear appearances are known collectively as mitoses. As already stated, the chromosomes ean in many cases be seen to be constructed of a linear series of chromatin particles (fig. 65); these eventually form a double row in each chromosome (fig. 66). Although all the changes observable in karyokinesis are quite continuous one into the other, it is convenient for descriptive purposes to consider them as occurring in separate stages, and these again are grouped into two series—the anaphase, leading up to the main feature {fnetaphase) of nuclear division, viz. division of the •chromosomes, and the kataphase, leading away from this to the complete formation of daughter-nuclei. During the anaphase, the chromosomes are becoming distinct, being to all appearance spun out of the whole chromatic material of the nucleus, including the membrane and network (but not the nucleolus, which may persist for a time but afterwards disappears). The thread or threads of chromatin which are thereby produced have in the first instance the character of a constricted skein (spirem), but this is soon found to be broken up transversely into a number of chromosomes of equal length and usually V-shaped. These before long arrange themselves around the equator of the somewhat ellipsoidal nucleus. When the nuclear membrane disappears the nuclear and cell contents come into complete continuity. The nucleolus may persist for a short time, but it disappears before the equatorial stage, becoming apparently discharged into and broken up or dissolved within the protoplasm.^ There is occasionally seen a division of the nucleus into three (or more) parts preceded by the appearance of multiple centrosomes."* This is more common in pathological new formations than in normal tissues, but has been described as a normal occurrence in giant-cells of marrow,'^ It may occur in the ovum as the ^ Kapvov, a kernel; Kiv-pais, movement. For the early history of this subject, with literature to that date, see Waldeyer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxvii. 1891. Since then the papers on the subject are innumerable. Amongst them may be especially mentioned those by Flemming, F. Hei’inann, Rabl, Meves, and other authors which have appeared in the Arch. f. mikr. Anat. and those by Carnoy and his fellow-workers which have been for the most part published in La Cellule. - The number of chromosomes in the somatic cells of man is 24 ; in the matured germ-cells 12 {J. Duesberg, Anat. Anz. xxviii. 1905). This agrees with the earlier computations of Flemming (Arch, f. mikr. Anat. xx. 1881) and Hausmann. The following animals and plants have also been found to have 24 chromosomes in the somatic cells—viz.; Salamandra, Salmo, Helix, Lilium, Leucojum. V. Bardeleben and E. B. Wilson both give 16, and Ziegler 32, as the number in man, but 24 seems to be the true number. The number in different animals and plants varies from 2 to 64, possibly more. C. E. Walker (Proc. Roy. Soc. B. Ixxviii. 1906) states that mitoses in which there are but half the usual numVjer of chromosomes in each daughter-cell are to be seen in the cells of bone-marrow and of lymph-glands and in leucocytes, but this observation requires confix’mation. ■' See on the disappearance of the nucleolus in mitosis, E. J. Sheppard, Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc. liv, 1909. ^ O. Hertwig, Virchow Festschr. 1891. Van Bambeke and Van der Stricht, Soc. de med. de Gand, 1891.