HAIRS 474 The first hairs produced constitute the fcetal lanugo;' their eruption takes place about the fifth month of intra-uterine life ; some of them are shed before birth, and are found floating in the liquor amnii. Even after birth ncAV hair-rudiments may for a time continue to be formed either from the rete mucosum of the epidermis or from the outer root-sheath of existing hair-follicles. Replacement of hairs.*^—According to Kolliker’s observations, the infantile hairs are entirely shed and renewed within a few months after birth ; those of the general surface first, and afterwards the hairs of the eyelashes and head, which he finds in process of change in infants about a year old. A formation of new hairs, preceded or accompanied by shedding of the old ones, also goes on during the whole Fig. 688.—Longitudinal section through the follicle of a club-hair. (Rauvier.) m, epitlieliura at the bottom of the follicle (which contains no papilla); 6, modified hair- bulb ; c, neck of the hair-follicle somewhat opened in preparing the section; s, sebaceous gland; o, epithelial bud at the level of the insertion of the arrector pili. of life. The papilla of the old hair diminishes in size and eventually disappears, and the hair-bulb becomes wholly keratinised, so that if the hair be now pulled out it appears solid throughout. As already explained, such hairs have been termed club-hairs to distinguish them from the ordinary hollow-bulbed or papilla-hairs. The hair-root acquires a closer attachment to the sides of the follicle, within which it gradually becomes shifted towards the surface of the skin (fig. 688), but all active growth ceases, and finally the hair drops out of the follicle. The club-hair is some- what wider at its lower end, but not bulbous like the papilla-hair. The new hairs are generated in the follicles of the old (figs. 689, 690). An increased growth of cells takes place from the ‘ hair-matrix,’ and a new papilla is produced within the mass of cells thus formed. These cells come to occupy the lower part of the ^ The term lanugo is also used for the small downy covering of hairs which is seen over the general surface of the body after birth and throughout life. - On the mode of replacement of hair see Unna, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xii. 1876; Ranvier, Traite technique, 1889; Giovannini, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxxvi. 1890; G. Aubertin, /6A?.xlvii. 1896 ; L. Steida, Anat. Hefte, xl. 1910.