THE SKIN. The skin (catis, 8ep/xa) consists of the cutis vera or coriiim, and the cuticle or epidermis. The cutis vera is a vascular connective-tissue membrane of con- siderable thickness ; it is this part of the skin which is converted into leather in the process of tanning. The epidermis is entirely composed of epithelium- cells arranged in a number of layers. It is derived from the ectoderm of the embryo, whilst the cutis vera is a derivative of the mesoderm. In the European races the skin is for the most part white, with, in a few parts, a brownish colora- tion due to pigment (area round nipples, parts of external generative organs, neigh- bourhood of anus) ; during life the blood within its vessels gives it a more or less distinct reddish tinge, varying directly with its vascularity and inversely propor- tional to the thickness of the epidermis. At the apertures of the mouth, nostrils. Fig. 651.—Magnified view OF FOUE OF THE RIDGES OF THE EPIDERMIS, WITH THE OPENINGS OF THE SUDORIFEROUS DUCTS. (After Breschet.) dj cV ep. c. Fig, 652.—Section of skin of heel. (Blascliko.) Low power. ep., epidermis; c., cutis vera ; d, d, ducts of sweat-glands; d', d', their openings at the surface of the papillary ridge; r.m., Malpighian layer of epidermis; this is thickened opposite the papillary ridges, where it dips down into the cutis vera (at r!m!) leaving prominences of the cutis between. rectum, and vagina the skin is continued into the mucous membranes which line those parts. The appendages of the skin are the nails, hair, and cutaneous glands. These are all of ectodermic origin, and of epithelial structure. Their description may conveniently follow that of the epidermis and cutis vera.‘ EPIDERMIS. The epidermis, cuticle, or scarf-skin belongs to the class of stratified epithelia, the general nature of which has been already considered. It forms a protective covering over every part of the true skin. The thickness of the cuticle varies in different parts of the surface, measuring in some places not more than 0.03 mm., and in other parts as much as 1 mm., or even more in some indi- viduals. It is thickest in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the skin is much exposed to intermittent pressure, and it is not improbable that such pressure may serve to stimulate the adjacent true skin to a more active for- mation of epidermis ; but the difference does not depend immediately on external causes, for it is well marked even in the foetus.^ ^ For details regarding the structure of the skin and its appendages, and an extensive bibliography to that date, see v. Brunn, Article ‘ Haut’ in v, Bardeleben’s Handbuch der Anatomie, 1897. - For measurements of the thickness of the epidermis and its iiarts in different regions of the body see Drosdoff, Arch, de physiol. 1879.