527 GASTKIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE generally a somewhat pink hue owing to the blood in its capillary vessels. In infancy the vascular redness is more marked. The mucous membrane is thickest in the pyloric region, and thinnest in the great cul-de-sac. It always becomes thinner in old age. It is connected with the muscular coat by means of the intervening submucous layer so loosely as to allow of considerable movement or displacement. In con- sequence of this, and of the want of elasticity of the mucous membrane, the internal surface of the stomach, when that organ is in an empty or contracted state, is thrown into numerous convoluted ridges, rugce, which are produced by the wrinkling of the mucous together with the areolar coat, and are entirely obliterated by dis- tension of the stomach. These folds are most evident along the greater curvature, and have a general longitudi- nal direction. On close examination of the gastric mucous membrane with the aid of a simple lens, it is seen to be marked throughout, but more plainly with small depressions, which have a polygonal figure, and vary from about 0'12 to 0*25 mm. across, being larger and Fig. 764.—Epithelium of the sur- face OF THE STOMACH EXAMINED FRESH. (R. Heidenhain.) Highly magnified. more oblong near the pylorus. They are the enlarged mouths or ducts of the tubular glands with which the mucous mem- brane of the stomach is beset (fig. 761). Towards the pyloric region of the stomach these depressions are larger and deeper, and in vertical section their margins appear elevated into pointed processes, which have a resemblance to rudi- mentary villi, but true villi exist only in the small intestine, and make their appearance in the duodenum, immediately beyond the pylorus. Surface epithelium.—The thick stratified epithelium of the oesophagus passes abruptly at the cardia into a simple layer of columnar epithelium, which completely covers the inner surface of the stomach, and extends to a variable distance into the mouths of the gastric glands. The transition of the stratified into the columnar epithelium occurs quite suddenly, the lowermost columnar cells of the stratified epithelium passing into the single columnar layer of the gastiic surface, and all the other layers of the stratified epithelium ceasing abruptly (fig. 763). towards the pyloric extremity. Fig. 763.—Section of the junction of the cesophageal AND GASTRIC MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE KANGAROO. (Schafer and Williams.) Magnified 135 diameters. S, stratified epithelium of oesophagus abruptly discontinued at S'; c, columnar epithelium of gastric mucous mernbrane; d, orifices or ducts of glands of the cardia; m, corium of oesophageal mucous membrane sending papillae into the epithelium; m', corium of gastric mucous membrane.