STRUCTURE OF NERVE-CENTRES 296 cell-columns—not closely packed, but with the cells of the group or column separated from one another by intercellular grey matter. Such groups are known as ‘ nuclei.’ The best marked cell-groups are those of the ventral horn {motor nuclei) ; those of the middle part or body of the crescent {middle nucleus)—these have but little Nissl substance and are therefore less conspicuous; those of darkens column or nucleus, at the base of the dorsal horn, mesially; and those of the lateral horn {inter- mediate cell-column), lying in a projecting part of the middle of the crescent. There are, besides these, nerve-cells, small and large, scattered throughout other parts of the grey matter of the dorsal horn, and a large number of small cells in the gelatinous substance of Kolando, which forms a cap over the apex of the dorsal horn. Clarke’s column and the intermediolateral column are only found in the thoracic and lumbar portions of the cord. The cells of the first-named give rise to fibres which run up the lateral column on the same side of the cord and end in the cerebellum (spino-cerebellar fibres of the tracts of Flechsig and Gowers, fig. 469). Those of the intermediolateral column give origin to fine medul- lated fibres which leave the cord along with the large motor-fibres of the ventral roots and go to sympathetic ganglia (pre-ganglionic fibres of the sympathetic). The dorsal roots are not formed of fibres which originate in the cord. They have their cells of origin in the spinal ganglia (fig. 468). They enter the white matter of the dorsal columns of the cord close to the dorsal horn of grey matter and divide into ascending and descend- ing branches, besides giving off numerous collaterals. Some of their branches pass into the grey matter at once, others are continued up (and some for a short distance down) the cord to end in its grey matter ; many are prolonged up to end in the grey matter of the dorsal column of the bulb. Besides these tracts of nerve-fibres which are derived from Clarke’s column and from the dorsal roots, the white matter of the cord contains laterally a large bundle of fibres which are derived from cells in the motor region of the opposite cerebral hemisphere {crossed pyramid tract), and ventrally a certain number of fibres—most numerous in the upper part of the cord—which are derived from similar cells of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side {direct pyra7)iid tract). Ventral to the crossed pyramid tract is another bundle of descending fibres. This is derived from the red nucleus in the mid-brain and is known as the rubro- spinal tract. In the ventro-lateral part of the white matter a number of fibres which arise in the pons and mid-brain run down the length of the cord {ventro- lateral descending fibres of the dorsal and ventral longitudinal tracts). All these tracts of white fibres send numerous collaterals into the grey matter to ramify Fig. 467.—Diageam showing cell-geoups in geey MATTEE OF COED AND NEEVE-TEACTS IN WHITE MATTEE. (Schafer.) Descending tracts shown on left side : 1, lateral pyramid tract ; 2, anterior pyramid tract; 3, antero- lateral descending; 3a, Helweg’s tract; 4, pre-pyra- midal (rubrospinal); 5, comma; s-m, septo-marginal fibres. Ascending tracts shown on right side : 6, tract of Goll; 7, tract of Burdach ; 8, tract of Lissauer ; 9, tract of Flechsig ; 10, tract of Gowers ; s.p.l., superficial postero-lateral fibres. The dots represent endogenous fibres, which are confined in their course to the cord itself. Cell-groups : to a’, different groups in ventral horn; i, intermedio-lateral group; p, groups of dorsal horn ; d, Clarke’s column.