513 DEVELOPMENT about the sixteenth week a thickening of the common dental lamina (p. 504, and fig. 739, r) ; this forms the enamel-germ of the corresponding permanent tooth. There are ten of these in each jaw, and they are formed successively from before backwards. They soon elongate and recede into the substance of the gum behind the germs of the milk-teeth. In the meantime, a papilla is formed at the bottom of each (that for the central incisor appearing first) and the germ becomes enclosed within a dental sac; the sac of the permanent tooth adhering to the back of that for the temporary tooth. The bone of the jaw not only forms a loculus for the reception of the milk-sac, but ultimately also a small posterior recess or niche for the permanent tooth-sac, with which the recess keeps pace in its growth. In the lower jaw, to which our descrip- tion may now, for convenience, be confined, the permanent sac is at length found at some distance below and behind the milk-tooth ; the sac for the permanent tooth soon acquires a pear-shape, and is then connected with the gum by a solid pedicle of fibrous tissue (fig. 747, I., II., c). The recess in the jaw (a') has a similar form, being drawn out into a long canal, which opens on the edge of the jaw by an aperture behind the corresponding milk-tooth. The permanent tooth is thus separated from the socket of the milk-tooth by a bony partition, which, as well as the root of the milk-tooth just above it, becomes absorbed as the crown of the permanent tooth rises through the gum. When this absorption has proceeded far enough, the milk-tooth becomes loosened and falls out or is removed, and the permanent tooth takes its place. The absorption of the dental substance commences at or near the ends of the fangs, and proceeds upAvards until nothing but the crown remains. The cement is first attacked, then Fig. 747.—Sketches showing the eelations op the tempoeaky and peeytanent dental SACS AND TEETH. (After Blake, with some additions.) The lower parts of the first three figures, which are somewhat enlarged, represent sections of the lower jaw through the alveolus of a temporary incisor tooth : a, indicates the sac of the permanent tooth ; c, its pedicle; &, the sac of the milk-tooth or the milk-tooth itself; a', b', indicate the bony recess in which the permanent and temporary teeth are lodged, and c', the canal by which that of the former leads to the surface of the bone behind the alveolus of the temporary tooth. The fourth and fifth figures, which are nearly of the natural size, show the same relations in a more advanced stage—in IV., previous to the change of teeth ; in V., when the milk-tooth has fallen out and the permanent tooth begins to rise in the jaw ; c, the orifice of the bony canal leading to the place of the permanent tooth. the dentine ; but the process is similar in the two tissues. The change is not produced merely by pressure, but, as in the case of the absorption of bone, through the agency of multi-nucleated absorbing cells or osteoclasts, developed at the time, and applied to the surface of the fang.* The sockets begin to be formed around the neck of the tooth as soon as the crown projects, and are formed simultaneously with the developing fangs. The six posterior (or superadded) permanent teeth—that is, the three permanent molars on each side—do not come in the place of other teeth. They arise from successive extensions of the common dental lamina carried backwards in the jaw behind the milk-teeth, as follows: The part of the common lamina jiosterior to the last temporary molar long continues unobli- tcrated, and from it there is developed at about the seventeenth week of embryonic life a special enamel-germ which forms the rudiment of the first permanent molar (fig. 732, 4, m'). After a long interval, viz. about the fourth month after birth, the germ for the second permanent molar appears in the dental lamina, which is now projecting backwards from the neck of that for the first molar. After another long interval, during which the sae of the first permanent molar and its contained tooth have acquired great size, and that of the second molar has also , ’ See on the absorption of the fangs of the milk-teeth G. Fisclier, Anat. Hefte, xxxviii. 1909. VOL. II. PART I. L L