694 INTERNALLY SECRETING GLANDS by the cells of the pars intermedia there can be no doubt: it represents in fact the secretion of this part of the gland. But in place of being passed into the blood or lymph, as is the case with the secretion of other internally secreting organs, it is delivered into the third ventricle and mingles with the cerebro-spinal fluid. Its existence in this fluid has been proved experimentally by Cushing and Goetsch. Its amount is greatly increased in animals from which the thyroid body has been removed (fig. 999) : from this it has been inferred that the pituitary can act vicariously for the thyroid. But extracts of pituitary have an entirely different physiological effect from thyroid extracts, and the chemical nature of the ‘ colloid ’ formed by the pars intermedia is different from that of the thyroid, e.g. it contains no iodine, even after thyroidectomy: ‘ it is therefore doubtful if the two glands are really functionally complementary to one another. That the colloid, or hyaline substance, has been occasionally observed amongst i - • . ... i Fig. 1000.—Section of part of neck of pars nervosa of the pituitary of a cat, SHOWING hyaline MATTER LYING AMONG THE EPENDYMA FIBRES OF THE PARS NERVOSA AND ALSO PASSING INTO THE CAVITY WHICH IS PROLONGED INTO THE GLAND FROM THE INFUNDIBULUM. (Herring.) a, ependyma-cells lining the cavity; 6, hyaline substance (colloid) within the cavity; c, ependyma-fibres ; tl, hyaline material between the fibres; e, a more granular mass of colloid lying between the fibres. the cells of the pars anterior—not a place where it occurs normally—may be due to the occasional presence in the pars anterior of cells belonging to the pars intermedia.^ In development the epithelial part of the pituitary is derived from the epithelium of a hollow median upgrowth from the buccal ectoderm, which grows towards the tliird ventricle to reach nearly to the base of the brain, its connexion with the mouth being then cut off. It is met by a downgrowth from the infundibulum ; this forms the pars nervosa. The intra- glandular cleft represents a remainder of the cavity of the buccal outgrowth. ^ Sutherland Simpson and Andrew Hunter, Quart. Journ. Exp. Physiol, iii. and iv. 1910, 1911. - The above account of the structure of the pituitary is founded mainly on the woi'k of P. T. Herring (Quarterly Journ. of Exper. Physiol, vol. i. 1908), who also in the same Journal gives an account of the development of the gland and a general history of the subject, with literature up to that date. A very full bibliography is also given by Masay (These, Bruxelles, 1903) and by Gentc'S (Soc. Sci. d’Arcachon, 1907). Later observations than these will be found referred to in the Croonian Lecture on the Functions of the Pituitary Body, by E. A. Schiifer (Proc. Roy. Soc. B. Ixxxi. 1909).