ADIPOSE TISSUE 125 reticular tissue resist tlie action of trypsin, and can be well shown in portions of tissue which have been subjected to tryptic digestion.* Development. — In the formation of retiform tissue the ground-substance appears to become entirely liquefied except where it enters into the composition of the reticulum. The cells of the tissue become applied to the anastomosing fibril-bundles, and by their union constitute a network of branched cells enveloping e, stratified epithelium of general surface, continued into crypt; /,/, follicles or nodules of lymphoid tissue ; opposite each nodule or germ-centre numbers of lymph-cells are passing into and through the epithelium; s, s, masses of cells which have thus escaped from the tonsil to mix with the saliva as salivary corpuscles. the network of fibrils. In lymphoid tissue the meshes become occupied by lymph- corpuscles which may originally have come from the blood- or lymph-vessels, but afterwards multiply by cell-division in the tissue itself. This multiplication can be seen (by observing the karyokinetic figures) to be occurring actively at certain points in the tissue, and around these points (germ-centres of Flemming) the lymph- corpuscles tend to accumulate in spheroidal nodules (lymphoid nodules, fig. 205, /) which are highly characteristic of lymphoid tissue. ADIPOSE TISSUE, Distribution. — This tissue is not confined to any one region or organ, but exists very generally throughout the body, accompanying the still more widely distributed areolar tissue in most, though not in all parts in which the latter is found. But its distribution is not uniform, and there are certain situations in which it is collected more abundantly. Thus, it forms a considerable layer underneath the skin, and, together with the subcutaneous areolar tissue in which it is lodged, constitutes in this situation what has been called the panniculus adiposus. It is collected in large quantity round certain internal parts ; around the kidneys especially it forms a compact mass, which from a comparatively early period of ^ C. Spalteholtz, Arch. f. Anat. 1897; Hoehl, ibid. On the reticular tissue of various organs, see Oppel, Anat. Anz. vi. 1891; C. Ciaccio, Anat. Anz. xxxi. 1907; Balabio, Anat. Anz. xxxiii. 1908.