STRUCTUKE OF CELL 30 is known as the arcJioplasm (Boveri) or hinoplasm (Strasburger), a name intended to indicate that it exerts a dominating influence over the rest of the protoplasm. The attraction-sphere and centriole were first noticed in the dividing ovum by Flemming, and independently by Knpffer, in 1875, and by E. Van Beneden in 1876, but their true significance was not understood until tlie publication, indejoendently, of the observations of Boveri and Van Beneden upon the developing ovum of Ascaris megalocephala in 1887, although a radiation from two points in the protoplasm on either side of the nucleus had been already described in dividing cells. Later the centrosome was recognised as a general feature of cell structure,* although a centriole cannot positively be affirmed to be of constant occurrence in all cells; indeed in the cells of the higher plants, and in Protozoa amongst animal organisms, a distinct central particle usually appears to be absent.^ In some cells, as in the erythrocytes of the Lepidosiren larva, as described by Bryce,® and in the spermatocytes of Ascaris, as described by Brauer,^ these structures only make their appearance in the protoplasm shortly before cell- division is about to occur : in the last-named case they emerge from the interior of the nucleus, havinof first undergone fission within that structure (fig, 52). In the large majority of animal cells a centro- some ean be detected within the protoplasm in all phases, even in the fully resting {i.e. non-dividing) Fig. 53.—White blood-cobpuscle OF Lepidosiben, with lobed AND ALMOST ANNULAB NUCLEUS AND WELL-MABKED CENTBOSOME. (T. H. Bryce.) Fig. 54.—Giant-cell op mabbow with numebous CENTBIOLES. (M. Heidenhain.) a, &, c, d, various zones of the cytoplasm. The nucleus is large and annular, with irregular lobes and numerous nucleoli. condition of the cell, although it may be close up against the nucleus, and on that account difficult of observation. Seeing, therefore, that its origin is sometimes within the nucleus, sometimes independent of the nucleus in the cell-protoplasm, the centrosome is regarded, when present, as a special cell-constituent, the function of which is intimately connected with the mechanism of nuclear division. A dumb-bell shaped or double centrosome (dipiosome) is sometimes present in a cell not immediately about to divide, although in this con- dition of the cell the centrosome is more often single. If the centrosome is single in the resting cell, division of the nucleus is always jireceded by that of the centrosome, the centrioles of the dividmg cell (along with their attraction-spheres and radiating filaments) occupying a special relationship to the changes in the nucleus which accompany cell-division, as will be noted when the division of cells is dealt with. According to M. Heidenhain the centrosome is usually less than 1^ in diameter, the centrioles being of course considerably smaller. When the nucleus is annular or horse-shoe shaped the centrosome lies in the centre of the ring or half-ring (fig. 53).® 8ome cells with multiple or lobed nuclei have the centrioles replaced by a group of particles (multiple centriole). This is the case, for example, with the giant-cells of bone-marrow (fig. 54). * Flemming, Anat. Anz. vi. 1891; M. Heidenhain, ibid. For historical accounts of the centrosome, see Solger, Berl. med. Woch. 1891, and M. Heidenhain, Plasma u. Zelle, 1907. ■“ Cf. Farmer, Anat. Anz. xiii. 1897 ; F. Meves, Verhaudl. d. Anat. Ges., Anat. Anz. 1902 ; R. Hertwig, Sitz. d. Ges. f. Morph, u. Physiol. Munich, 1895. ^ Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1904. * Biol. Centr. 1893, vol. xiii. and Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xlii. 1893. F. Meves, Diss. Kiel, 1893.