203 THE NERVOUS TISSUES THE TISSUES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The elements which compose the tissues special to the nervous system are (1) nerve-cells; (2) nerve-fibres (which are in every case prolongations or processes of nerve- cells) ; (3) neuroglia-cells and neuroglia-fib res, which play the part of a sustentacular tissue in the central nervous system, in which, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the blood-vessels, there is little ordinary connective tissue ; (4) a peculiar ciliated epithelium {ependyma) which lines the ventricles of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord. The ependyma represents a residue of the invaginated ectoderm in connexion with which the whole nervous system has become developed. Of the above elements the nerve-cells, or, strictly speaking, the nucleated bodies of the nerve-cells, occur exclusively in the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord, and in those small collections, known as ganglia, which are found on certain of the peripheral nerves—e.g. on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves and of some cranial nerves, and in connexion with many of the sympathetic nerves ; the main sympathetic nerves which run on either side of the vertebral column being beset with a succession of paired ganglia forming the sympathetic chain (Germ. Grenz- strang ; Fr. grand sympathetique). Nerve-fibres ,forni the bulk of the white matter of the brain and cord, and are also found passing through the grey matter. Leaving (or entering) the cord and brain in the nerve-roots, they become ensheathed by connective tissue, and outside the vertebral canal and skull form the peripheral nerve-trunks and nerve- plexuses from which the nerves of the body generally are derived. A large amount of connective tissue enters into the structure of the peripheral nerves, giving them toughness and serving to bind together and protect the soft and otherwise easily injured nerve-fibres. Finally the fibres terminate in nerve-endings, which are either formed simply by the breaking up of the individual nerve-fibres into a terminal arborescence; or the nerve termination is incorporated within a special growth of the connective tissue which envelops the fibres, ‘ end-organs ’ of various kinds being thereby produced. Neuroglia-cells or glia-cells are found only in the central nervous system, where they occur as irregular stellate cells with processes in the form of fibres extending from the cell-body in all directions between the proper nervous elements. The ependyma is also found only in the nerve-centres. The structure and arrangement of these elements of the nervous system may now be severally described, beginning with the central epithelium of the nerve- centres which has formed the scafiolding upon and around which all the nervous elements of the spinal cord and brain are built up. Central epithelium (ependyma) of the spinal cord and brain.—To explain the relationship of this structure to the rest of the central nervous system it is necessary briefly to consider the mode in which the nervous system is laid down in the embryo. The first appearance of the nervous system takes the form of a thickening of the ectoderm along the middle line of the blastoderm. This thickening as soon as it becomes apparent is found to occupy the bottom and sides of a widely open groove which extends from near the front of the blastoderm to the anterior end of the primitive streak where this divaricates and becomes lost. The groove is the neural groove and the thickened ectoderm lining it is tlie neural ectoderm. As development proceeds the groove deepens by the folding up of its sides ; presently the lateral folds bend over towards one another, and eventually grow together so as to close in the previously open groove, which is thus converted into a canal.