AM(EBOII) AND CILIARY ACTION 81 the anode as indicated by the small arrow. . . . The effect of the same current on a “ negative ” ciliated organism will, of course, be the reverse. . . . ‘ The phenomena of chemotaxis must be attributed to the diffusion of the ions into thej^roto- plasm in different proportions. Consider the effect upon a “ positive” amoeboid cell (A, fig. 127) of a salt such as KCl, in which the kation has a greater velocity than the anion, diffusing from a capillary tube (B). Since the quicker-moving kations will diffuse faster than the anions, more kations will enter the organism in a given time than anions; that is, the contact difference of potential at such points as a (fig. 127) will be augmented, and at such points as h unaffected or much less augmented (since the concentration of the KCl is as the inverse square). Hence the surface tension at h will be greater than that at a, and the organism will move towards the capillary. ‘ With a salt like CaCL, in which many more anions would enter the organism in a given time than kations, the reverse would be the case. ‘ If the organism were “ negative ” the above effects would be reversed. ‘ “ Isotactic ” organisms—as we may call those organisms which are equally loaded with anions and kations—would, of course, be attracted by both kinds of reagents, but as the potential difference would be very small such organisms would exhibit no marked reaction.’ ' 1 See also H. H. Dale, ‘ Galvanotaxis and Chemotaxis,’ Journ. Physiol. 1901, p. 291; and A. P. Mathews, ‘ The Nature of Chemical and Electrical Stimulation,’ Amer. Journ. Physiol, xi. 1904, who also considers ‘ that the chemical composition of the ion is of little importance compared with the importance of its electrical condition, and that electrical stimulation is due simply to the accumulation of negative or positive ions in different places in the tissue.’ W. M. Strong, Journ. Physiol. XXV. 1900, applies a similar theory to the propagation of excitation in muscle and nerve. The works of J. Loeb, Studies in General Physiology, Chicago University Publications, 1905 ; and Dynamics of Living Matter, 1906, may especially be consulted on the question of the electrical charge of proteins (ion-protein hypothesis). Much of the general literature of the subject of the effect of variations in surface tension in producing the phenomena of protoplasmic movement will be found in Robertson’s paper in the Quart. Journ. Exper. Physiol, above referred to. His application of the theory to the production of muscular contraction will be noticed when that subject is dealt with. VOL. II. PART I. G