389 VARIETIES OF LEUCOCYTES 2. microcytes (micro-lymphocytes).—These (fig. 579, b) are charac- terised by their relatively small size, many of them being not much more than half the size of the polymorphocytes ('0065 mm.). They have, as already stated, very little proto- plasm, and that hyaline and basiphil, staining with methylene-blue. The nucleus is simple and sphe- roidal or slightly indented. Its chromatin is re- ticular (fig. 582). The larger specimens of microcytes appear to be transitional to those of the variety next to be described. The microcytes constitute rather more than 20 per cent. (19 to 33, Cars- tanjen) of the total number of leucocytes in the adult, but are much more numerous in infancy. Their number is increased after a meal (lympho- cytosis). They closely resemble the cells which form the bulk of lymphatic glands and other lymphoid tissue, and there is very little doubt they are directly derived from these. They are not actively amoeboid or phagocytic. According to Browning * the lymphocytes are not only the first of the leucocytes to make their appearance in the embryo, but are also the first to appear phylogenetically; the oxyphils are the next to show themselves. 3. Macrocytes (macro-lymphocytes).—These (fig. 579, c) are in general similar to the microcytes, containing a simple nucleus and a clear basiphil cytoplasm, but both nucleus and cytoplasm have a much larger volume, so that the cell itself is far larger. They form in fact the largest of all the blood-leucocytes. That they are derived from the micro- lymphocytes appears probable, seeing that all intermediate sizes may be found in blood. The nucleus is often indented or kidney-shaped (fig. 583). The cytoplasm is highly amoeboid and phagocytic. The estimates of their number vary according as the intermediate forms between these and microcytes are included : if only the largest cells are enumerated, the number is less than 1 per cent, of the total number of the blood-leucocytes, whereas if the intermediate forms are taken in with them the percentage would amount normally to consider- ably more. 4. G-ranular oxyphils.—Leuco- cytes with a mass of coarse granules (fig. 579, d), staining with acid dyes such as eosin, sometimes filling the cytoplasm, sometimes leaving a part clear (fig. 584). The granules react for phosphorus. They are generally spheroidal, but in the cat are cylindroidal (Sherrington). The size of the granules varies in different species of animal. Ehrlich has suggested that these cells are secreting cells and the Fig. 584.—An eosinophil leucocyte op sala- mander BEGINNING TO ADHERE TO AN ERYTHRO- CYTE. (Schafer.) Fresh preparation without addition of fluid. Untouched photograph. Mag- nified 600 diameters. Two other erythrocytes are included in the field. Notice that the nuclei in these have undergone a change of position within the erythrocyte, showing that its contents must be completely fluid. Fig. 583.—Macrocyte of lepido- SIREN, showing LINES IN PROTO- PLASM radiating from cen- TRIOLE. (T. H. Bryce.) ’ Journ. Path, and Bacter. x. 1905,