132 CAKTILAGE CARTILAGE. This is the well-known substance commonly called ‘ gristle." When in mass, it is opaque and of a pearly or bluish-white colour, in some varieties yellow ; in thin slices it is translucent. Although it can be easily cut with a sharp knife, it is nevertheless of very firm consistence, but at the same time highly elastic, so that it readily yields to pressure or torsion, and immediately recovers its original shape when the constraining force is withdrawn. By reason of these mechanical properties, it serves important purposes in the construction of some parts of the body. In the early embryo the skeleton is, in great part, cartOaginons ; but the cartilage forming its different pieces, which have the outward form of the future bones, in due time undergoes ossification or gives place to bone, in the greater part of its extent at least, hence this variety of cartilage is named ‘ temporary ’ or ‘ foetal.’ Of the permanent cartilages a great many are in immediate'connexion with bone, and may be still said to form part of the skeleton. The chief of these are the articular and the costal cartilages ; the former cover the ends or surfaces of bones in the joints, and afford these harder parts a thick springy coating, which breaks the force of concussion and gives ease to their motions ; the costal or rib cartilages form a considerable part of the solid frame- work of the thorax, and impart elasticity to its walls. Other per- manent cartilages enter into the formation of the external ear, the nose, the Eustachian tube, the larynx, and the windpipe. They strengthen the substance of these parts without undue rigidity; maintaining their shape, keeping open the passages through them where such exist, and giving attachment to moving muscles and connecting ligaments. Cartilages, except those of the joints, are covered externally with a moderately vascular fibrous membrane named the 'perichondrium. When a very thin slice of cartilage is examined with the microscope, it is seen to consist of cells, disseminated in a solid ground-substance or matrix (fig. 214). The matrix is trans- parent, and to all appearance homogeneous ; sometimes dim and either indistinctly fibrous ,, „ , , , or faintly granular, like ground ft, group of two cells; 0, group of four cells; i xu + ' //, protoplasm of cell, with g, fatty granules ; n, nucleus. glaSS : DOtn tnese COnclltlOnS occur in hyaline cartilage, which may be regarded as the typical form of the tissue. Two other varieties exist in which the matrix is pervaded to a greater or less extent by distinct fibres. In the one, named elastic or yellow flbro-cartilage, the fibres are similar to those of elastic tissue ; in the other, named white fibro-cartilage, they are of the white Fig. 214.—Articular cartilage from head of METATARSAL BONE OF MAN. (Osmic acid pre- paration.) The cell-bodies entirely fill THE SPACES IN THE MATRIX (Sclliifer.) 340 diameters. kind as in ordinary ligament.