‘338 BLOOD-VESSELS of the inner coat; these thickenings may represent rudimentary valves (v. Bardeleben). endothelium, a subendothelial connective-tissue layer, and a not very well marked elastic layer (fig. 522, a, h). The endothelium of the veins is similar in character to that of the arteries, but the cells are shorter and broader. The subendothelial layer is less developed in most veins than in the arteries, and indeed is absent altogether in many. It is better marked in some of the medium-sized veins than in the larger trunks. The elastic tissue of the inner coat occurs as dense lamelliform networks of longitudinal elastic fibres, and but seldom as fenestrated membranes. Longitudinal muscular bundles, as well as isolated contractile cells, are found in the inner coat of some veins. ^ Middle coat.—This tunic is thinner than that of the arteries, and has a much larger admixture of white connective tissue. It is pervaded by an elastic network, but this is less conspicuous in the veins than in the arteries. In the veins of the limbs (especially the upper limb) and in those of some other parts, the muscular fibre-cells have for the most part as in the arteries a transverse direction, although the layer which they form is not everywhere complete, being separated into bundles by the intervention of connective tissue (fig. 522, c). But in many veins some of the innermost fibres of the middle coat take a longi- tudinal course : this is the case with the iliac, crural, branches of the mesenteric, mnbilical of the foetus, and other veins (Eberth). The transition between the middle and the outer coat is more gradual than in arteries. The middle coat is wanting altogether in the thoracic part of the inferior vena cava, but is well marked in the hepatic part: below the liver the muscu- larity of the middle coat is less developed. Sxternal coat (fig. 522, d). — This is often thicker than the middle coat; but the line of ]’unc- tion between them is not sharply marked. It consists of dense areolar tissue and longitudinal elastic fibres. In certain large veins, as was first pointed out by Kemak, this coat contains a considerable amount of plain or non-striated muscular tissue. Thus the muscular elements are well marked in the whole extent of the abdominal cava, in which they form a longitudinal network, occupying the inner part of the external coat; and they may be traced into the renal, azygos, spermatic and external iliac veins. The muscular tissue of the external coat is also well developed in the trunks of the hepatic veins and in that of the vena portic (fig. 523), whence it extends into the splenic and superior mesenteric. It is found also in the axillary vein. Fig. 522.—Transvekse section of part of the wall of one OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS, MAN. (Schiifer.) About 200 diameters. a, endothelial, and h, sub-endothelial layers of inner coat; c, middle coat consisting of irregular bundles of muscular tissue, alternated with connective tissue, and passing somewhat gradu- ally into the outer connective tissue and elastic coat, d. ’ Veins which are apparently healthy sometimes exhibit here and there well-marked thickenings