537 MUCOUS MEMBRANE It is bounded at tbe free surface by columnar epithelium, which also covers the villi and is invaginated into the numerous small tubular glands opening on to the surface (fig. 777). Next to the submucous coat it is terminated by a thin double layer (inner circular and outer longitudinal) of plain muscular fibres—the 7nuscularis mucosce—which sends prolongations towards the surface between the glands and into the villi. The elastic fibres of the mucous membrane form a close reticulation over the muscularis mucosse (Mall). The mucous membrane is characterised by the finely flocculent or shaggy appearance of its inner surface, resembling the pile upon velvet. This appearance is due to the surface being thickly covered with the minute processes named villi. It is one of the most vascular membranes in the body. In the fresh condition it is of a reddish colour in the upper part of the small intestine, but is paler, and at the same time thinner, towards the lower end. The mucous membrane, in addition to small effaceable folds or rugae, possesses also permanent folds, which cannot be obliterated, even when the tube is forcibly distended. These permanent folds are the valvulce conniventes or valves of Kerhring. They are crescentic projections of the mucous membrane, placed transversely to the axis of the bowel and following one another ■ closely (fig. 778, and accompanying Plate). The majority do not extend more than about one-half or two-thirds round the interior of the tube, but it has been shown by Brooks and Kazzander that some form complete circles, and others spirals. The spiral forms may occur singly or in groups of two or three. They generally extend a little more than once round the bowel, but in rare cases may Fig. 777.—Small pobtion of the subface of THE MUCOUS MEMBBANE OF THE SMALL INTES- TINE. (Rauber.) Magnified 30 diameters. 1, months of crypts of Lieberkiihn; 2, villi. Pig. 778.—Pobtion of small intestine dis- tended WITH ALCOHOL AND LAID OPEN TO SHOW THE VALVULffi CONNIVENTES. (Brilltoil.) go round two or three times. At their highest point the valves project inwards for about a third of an inch. Some of the valvulse conniventes are bifurcated at one or both ends; others terminate abruptly. Each consists of a fold of mucous membrane, that is, of two layers placed back to back, united closely by submucous areolar tissue. They contain no part of the circular or longitudinal muscular coats. Being extensions of the mucous membrane, they serve to increase the absorbent surface to which the food is exposed. The valvulse conniventes are not uniformly distributed over the various parts of the small intestine. There are none quite at the commencement of the duodenum ; a short distance from the pylorus they begin to appear ; beyond the point at which the bile and pancreatic juice are poured into the duodenum they are very large, regularly crescentic in form, and placed so near to each other that the intervals between them are not greater than the breadth of one of the valves ; they continue thus through the rest of the duodenum and along the upper half of the jejunum ; below that point they begin to get smaller and farther apart, and finally, towards the middle or lower end of the ileum, having gradually become more irregular and