NERVE-FIBKES 234 distinctively by carmine and other dyes, which entirely fail to affect it whilst it is still in combination in the myelin.* (c) .4 rodded structure. This is seen after the action of certain reagents, especially picric acid. The medullary sheath of the fibres seems after this treatjnent to contain a large number of tine rods, which in transverse sections radiate out from the axis-cylinder towards the neurolemma like the spokes of a wheel (fig. 368), and in longitudinal view run per- pendicularly between the axis-cylinder and neurolemma. The appearance is also, there can be little doubt, due to the peculiar manner in which the reagent has caused coagulation of the myelin of the medullary sheath, one of its constituents having become separated out in a semi-crystalline rod-like manner. No trace of such structure is visible in fresh nerve. The neurolemma, which is also known as the nucleated sheath of Sehwann and 'primitive sheath, forms the outermost stratum of the medullated nerve-fibre in peripheral nerves. It is a homogene- ous membranous layer, very thin but somewhat tough, serving to contain the soft myelinic substance of the medullary sheath. As already mentioned, it is absent in the fibres of the substance of the brain and cord.^ The oval nuclei which lie on the inner surface of this sheath, although imbedded in the myelin of the medullary sheath, undoubtedly belong to the neurolemma, for they are not seen in the alemmal fibres of the brain and cord : they appear to be the nuclei of the cells from which the primitive sheath was originally formed. Probably they represent cells which have wandered out in the embryo from the neural ectoderm and have undergone special modification to adapt them to the purpose of ensheathing the peripheral nerve-fibres (sheath- cells, see p. 243). Whether the membrane of the primitive sheath is actually continuous over the constrictions of Kanvier from segment to segment of the nerve, or whether the segmental portions of this sheath are merely united by cement- substance at the nodes, as the fact that it stains black wdien treated by the silver method seems to indicate (see p. 229), is not fully ascertained, but in any case there seems little reason to doubt that each segment of the neurolemma represents a single cell which has become enwrapped around the medullated fibre and has thereby imparted to this a segmented character. There is sometimes to be seen in the immediate neighbourhood of the nuclei a small amount of finely granular substance, which may be regarded as a remainder of the original protoplasm of the sheath-cell. In the medullated nerves of osseous fish there may be several nuclei between each jiair of nodes, and the protoplasm in which they lie may send processes through the medullary sheath towards the axis-cylinder.-* The axis-cylinder is the essential part of the nerve-fibre. At its origin from the cyton or nerve-cell-body the nerve-fibre consists only of axon without any sheaths, and at its termination in the periphery it is commonly found that the medullary sheath and neurolemma cease a short distance before the actual ending of the fibre, Fig. 368.—Section across part of A NERVE-TRUNK, SHOWING THE SECTIONS OF THE NERVE-FIBRES. From a photograph. (Schiifer.) 1 00 o 1 • The nerve was hardened in picric acid and stained with picrocarmine. The radial striation of the medullary sheath is very apparent. In one fibre the axis-cylinder is shrunken and the medullary striations are broken. The fibrils of the axis-cylinder are clear in section and suggest a tubular structure. * On the neurokeratiii of the medullary sheath, see S. Hatai, Jour. Comp. Neurol, xiii. 1903. - Bikeles found (in posterior roots of lumbar nerves) that Schwann’s sheath is absent close to the cord, being there replaced by glia-cells, and that if the root be crushed regeneration of the nerve-fibres extends only as far as this point (Neurol. Centralbl. 1907). ^ Noniloff, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Ixxii. 1908. According to Nemiloff, both the neurokeratin network and also the septa between the conico cylindrical segments are occupied by these processes.