18 STRUCTURE OF CELL living unaltered cells, although to study all the details of such structure it may be necessary to fix and stain the cells which exhibit it. Although the linear differentiations which have been mentioned, and which take the form of a fibrillation of the cell-protoplasm {cytomytome), are generally admitted to be pre- formed structures, the pre-existence of the spongy or honeycomb differentiation which is manifest in cells which have been subjected to the action of fixative reagents has been called in question. Since this differentiation is seen in cells which have been fixed and their protoplasm coagulated by a great variety of reagents, such as chromic acid, picric acid, corrosive sublimate, formalde- Fig 26.—Diagbam op cell, showing pbotoplasm CONSISTING OF SPONGIOPLASMIC BETICULUM WITH HYALOPLASM IN ITS MESHES; THE HYALOPLASM IS ACCUMULATED AT THE PEBIPHEBY. (Schafei’.) protoplasm ; n, nucleus ; n\ nucleolus. Fig, 27.—Diagbam of beticulab APPEABANCE OF PBOTOPLASM AND NUCLEUS OF A COLUMNAB CELL. (Verworn, after Biitschli.) hyde, osmic acid, heat, and alcohol, a reticular structure was described as a general feature of protoplasmic structure by Frommann, whose researches were extended by Heitzmann, Klein, Carnoy, and many others. L e y d i g ^ pointed out that the apparent reticulum was rather of the nature of a sponge- work than a network (fig. 26), and proposed for it the name of spongioplasm, the clear substance (? fl u i d) occupying its interstices, which Carnoy had termed the enchylema, being designated by Leydig hyaloplasm: these designations have since become widely adopted.^ Biitschli,^ on the other hand, took the view that the appearance of a network or spongework with intercom- Fig. 28.—Compabison of pbotoplasm with oil and wateb emulsion. A. Protoplasm of Thalassicola. B. Froth-like appearance of a mixture of oil and cane sugar. (Verworn, after Biitschli.) ^ Zelle u. Gewebe, 1885. See also on this subject, Schafer, Proc. Roy. Soc. xlix. 1801. - Some recent writers (following Biitschli) have introduced confusion into this terminology by employing the word hyaloplasm in the sense of Leydig’s spongioplasm (using the word enchylema for the hyaloplasm of Leydig). But in this work the expressions spongioplasm and hyaloplasm will be used in the sense in which they were originally employed by Leydig. Biol. Centralbl. 1890; also Mikroscopische Schiiume, Leipzig, 1892; transl. by Minchin, 1891. On the supposed foam-structure of protoplasm, see Frommann, Anat. Anz. v. 1890.