92 EPITHELIUM €anal of the spinal cord and ventricles of the brain; parts—as the nose, pharynx, Eustachian tube, the sions—there is a layer of elongated and Fig. 151.—Ciliated epithelium-cells from the TRACHEA OF THE RABBIT. (Schtifer.) Highly magnified. 7?U, mucus-secreting cells, lying between the ciliated cells, and seen in various stages of mucin-formation. but in various other trachea and its larger divi- irregular cells beneath and between the superficial ciliated range, filling up the spaces amongst the pointed and forked extremities of the ciliated cells. These cells have by some been supposed to acquire cilia, and take the place of ciliated cells which are cast off ; but they appear rather to be concerned with the secretion of mucus, since mucigen occurs within them in all stages of formation, and thev become eventuallv distended bv it into goblet-cells. This is illustrated in fig. 151, where the intermediate cells, m-, and show three stages of formation of mucus. When the ciliated epithelium is artificially removed from a portion of the inner surface of the rabbit’s trachea, the denuded surface speedily becomes again covered with epithe- the cells form at first a single layer of and afterwards become columnar, normally in that situation. lium which grows over it from the edge; flattened epithelium. They next acquire cilia, the epithelium thus assuming the character which it has As has already been stated, the spermatozoa are to be regarded as ciliated cells, the tail of the spermatozoon representing a cilium. It must, however, be noted that the structure of the tail in the vertebrate spermatozoon is more complex than that of any other known cilium, for it contains one or more fine fibrils in its axis (axial fibrils), and in some animals a spiral fibre coiled around the enlarged part (middle piece) which is attached to the head of the spermatozoon. The axial fibrils are connected with and appear to have grown out from the centriole, which lies in the middle piece close to the head. On the other hand, the spiral fibre is developed from special granules (mitochondria) in the spermatids (fig. 39).' The ciliated epithelium of the uterus has shorter cells than those of the respiratory passages,- and between them are more slender cells without cilia.^ According to Barfurth there are cell-bridges crossing the intercellular substance.' The ciliated epithelium of the central canal of the spinal cord and that lining the ventricles of the brain is peculiar in being prolonged at the base into long fibres of neuroglia-like chaiacter (see fig. 311), which in the embryo pass ' Benda, Verb. d. physiol. Ges. z. Berlin, 1897,1898, 1899 ; F. Meves, Arch. f. inikr. Anat. Ivi. 1900. According to Bjiii’kenheiin (Anat. Hefte, xxxv. 1907), they become more tlattened as age advances, and tend to become keratinised. ■” The constancy of cilia upon the cells of the epithelium of the body of the uterus seems doubtful. Keller (Anat. Hefte, xxix. 1909) was never able to convince himself of their presence in the uterus of the bitch. See also S. H. Gage, Amer. Journ. Anat. iii. 1904. ‘ Anat. Hefte, ix. 1897. Fig. 152.—Canaliculi within columnar epithelium-cells OF epididymis. (Holmgren.) R, nucleus.