160 EONE which compose them are smaller. Near these ends the cartilage-cells multiply by mitosis,' and with the new cells new matrix is produced so that the cartilage in this situation is both becoming elongated and expanded laterally. Near the place where bone is forming there is no sign of division and multiplication of the cartilage- cells ; here indeed there is evidence of atrophy. Into the matrix between the columns the calcareous deposit ex- tends between and around the groups of cells, so that the calcified substance encloses the columns. The cell-spaces in the calcified matrix which are still occupied by the cartilage-cells, either singly or in elongated groups, were termed by Sharpey primary areolce. Simul- taneously with this deposit in the cartilage-matrix, a layer of osseous substance (fig. 246, im) is becoming formed on the outside of the carti- lage underneath the periosteum. This last is a vascular membrane, containing numerous osteoblasts (o), which are chiefly collected on the inner surface next to the cartilage, and it is by their agency that the bony layer on the surface of the cartilage is formed and becomes increased both in thickness and length. The bony layer, when viewed on the surface, shows the usual component fibres of osseous substance, and as other layers are deposited upon it lacunse become formed between them by the inclu- sion of some of the osteoblasts. In this first stage of ossification we see therefore two processes going on, a deposit of earthy matter in the matrix of the cartilage, the cells of which assume a highly charac- teristic arrangement, and a deposi- tion of true membrane-bone, under- neath the perichondrium, and closely investing the surface of the cartilage. What next happens is an irrup- tion of the subperiosteal vascular and osteoblastic tissue into the middle of the cartilage, one or more apertures being excavated by absorption in the newly deposited osseous lamella, and the tissue in question passing through these and burrowing into the cartilage (fig. 247, ir). Here it absorbs a great part of the calcified matrix, and by demolishing it in this way forms larger spaces (the secondary arcolce of Sharpey, ' Leser, Arch. f. milir. Anat. xxxii. 1888; (.1. Retzius, Biol. Foren. Furluuull. i. 1888. Fig. 24G.—Section of phalangeal bone of human FCETUS, AT THE TIME OF COMMENCING OSSIFICATION. From a preparation by F. A. Dixey. (Schiifer.) Magnified about 75 diameters. The drawing was made from a photograph. The cartilage-cells in the centre are enlarged and separated from one another by dark-looking calcified matrix ; ivi, layer of bone deposited underneath the periosteum ; o, layer of osteoblasts by which this layer has been formed. Some of tlie osteoblasts are already imbedded in the new bone as lacunae. The cartilage- cells are becoming enlarged and flattened and arranged in rows above and below the calcified centre. At the ends of the cartilage the cells are small and the groups are irregularly arranged : the fibrous periosteum is not sliarjfiy marked oft' from the cartilage.