MINUTE STRUCTURE 175 fibres have been measured which are much longer than the dimensions above given. Generally speaking, the fibres neither divide nor anastomose ; but this rule is not without exception. In the tongue of the frog the muscular fibres (fig. 2G4) as they approach the surface divide into nuiiierous branches, by which they are attached to the under-surface of the mucous membrane (Kiilliker). The same has been seen in the tongue of man and various animals ; and the fibres of the facial muscles of mammals divide in a similar manner where they fix them- selves to the skin (Busk and Huxley).‘ Structure of the fibres ; sarcolemma.—A muscular fibre may be said to consist of a soft substance enclosed in a tubular slieath. The latter is named Fig. 265.—Muscul.-vr fibre of fish. SUBST.^NCE OF FIBRE RUPTURED so AS TO EXHIBIT SARCOLEMMA. (Bowman.) the sarcolemma. It consists of transparent and apparently homogeneous membrane, and, being comparatively tough, will sometimes remain entire when the included muscular substance is ruptured, as represented in figs. 265, 266. It is closely applied to the substance of the fibre and follows all its changes of shape. It is especially well seen in fish and amphibia, for Fig. 266.—Sarcolemma of mamma- lian MUSCLE. (Schafer.) Highly magnified. The fibre is represented at a place where the muscular substance has become ruptured and has shrunk away, leaving the sarcolemma (with a nucleus adhering to it) clear. The fibre had been treated with serum acidulated with acetic acid. Fig. 267.—Muscular fibre of a mammal EXAMINED FRESH IN SERUM. (Sclliifer.) Highly magnified. This figure was drawn with the surface layer of muscular substance accurately focussed, the lateral portions having been added by gradually sinking the focus. The nuclei are seen on the flat at the surface of the fibre, and in profile at the edges. in these it is thicker and stronger than in mammalian muscle, in which it is more difficult to render evident but nevertheless always exists (fig. 266). Nuclei are found on the inner surface of the sarcolemma, but these belong rather to the contractile substance than to the enclosing membrane, and will be afterwards more fully described. Cross-striated substance.—When viewed by transmitted light even with a comparatively low power of the microscope, the fibres, which are clear and pellucid in aspect, appear marked with parallel stripes or bands alternately light and dark passing across them with great regularity (fig. 267), and this not only at the surface ^ Transl. of KiJlliker’s Gewebelehre.