NERVE-ENDINGS. 2()0 Of the ordinary sensory nerves, including those which are devoted to the perception of tactile sensations, some end as ramifications of the axis-cylinder, which resolves itself eventually into its ultimate fibrils, and thus penetrates between the epithelium-cells which cover the sensory surface, whilst others terminate in special organs composed of the connective-tissue sheath of the nerve-fibre. Of these end-organs, the best known are the simple and compound end-hulbs and tactile corpuscles, the corpuscles of Grandnj, which occur in birds, the cor- puscles of Herhst, also occurring in birds, and the corpuscles of Pacini; besides various similar structures, which are found chiefly in mammals and have received names according to their situation or from the observer who has first described them. Tactile corpuscles or touch-bodies {corpuscula tactus) (figs. 403 to 407). These were discovered by R. Wagner and Meissner in the papillae of the skin of stratum corneum stratum lucidum stratum granulosum /I’ete mucosum >-cutis vera Fig. 40:-5.—Vebtical section thbough the skin of the palmab side of the fingeb, SHOWING TWO PAPILLAE (ONE OF WHICH CONTAINS A TACTILE COKPUSCLE) AND THE DEEPEB LAYEB OF THE EPiDEBMis. (Schiifer.) Magnified about 200 diameters. the hand and foot, where they are of an oval shape, nearly 0’083 mm. inch) long and 0*03 mm. (^,V(y inch) thick. They may be found in the skin of all parts of the hand and foot (fig. 403) (including the bed of the nails), that of the volar surface of the forearm, in the skin of the nipple in both sexes, in the conjunctiva at the edge of the eyelids, in the skin of the lips and in the mucous membrane of the tip of the tongue (fig. 438). Similar corpuscles occur in monkeys, but they have not been found in animals lower in the scale. One, two, or more medullated nerve-fibres run to the corpuscle and either at once, or after winding round it two or more times, pass into its interior and become lost to view. The touch-body contains connective tissue, prolonged inwards from the capsule in