HAIKS 463 within fibrils which occupy the cell-protoplasm. In this respect it agrees in struc- ture with the horny layer of the epidermis (see p. 449), and with the fibrous layer of the hairs. The fibrils of the nail-cells disappear, however, as the conversion into keratin is completed. Each successive series of these cells being followed and pushed from their original place by others, they become flattened out and trans- formed into the dry, hard, and inseparably coherent scales which characterise the nail-substance. By this addition of new cells at the posterior edge, the nail is made to advance, and by the apposition of similar particles to its under-surface at the lunula, it grows in thickness ; so that it is thicker at the anterior border of the lunula than nearer the root. It does not appear to increase in thickness while passing over the bed. When a nail is thrown off by suppuration, or pulled away by violence, a new one is produced in its place, provided any of the cells of the Malpighian layer of the epithelium are left in the groove. HAIRS. A hair consists of a root, which is fixed in the skin, and a shaft or stem (see accompanying Plate). The stem is generally cylindrical, but may be more or less elliptical or even irregular in section : when the hair is uncut, it tapers gradually towards the point. The part nearest the root is also finer than the main stem. The length and thickness vary greatly in different individuals and races of mankind as well as in different regions of the body.* The finest are the so-called lanugo-hairs of the general surface, which may be no more than 5^ thick, while the hairs of the beard may be as thick as 200/x. But even in the same region, e.g. the scalp, the hairs vary in diameter from about llyu, to 160/x (Falck). In the straight-haired races [e.g. Mongolian), the in- dividual hairs are coarser and thicker and the section more circular than in the crisp-haired races (negro), in which the section is smaller and oval, the hairs being sometimes markedly flattened. The section is largest in the North-American Indians, Chinese, and especially in the Japanese. Light-coloured hair is usually finer than black. The stem is covered with a coating of finely imbricated scales, the upwardly projecting edges of which give rise to a series of fine, waved, transverse lines, which may be seen on the surface of the hair with the microscope (fig. 675, A). Within this scaly covering, called the hair-cuticle, is a fibrous or cortical substance, which in all cases constitutes the chief part and often the whole of the stem ; but in many hairs the axis is occupied by a substance of a difierent nature, called the medulla or pith (fig. 675, B). The fibrous substance is translucent, with short longitudinal opaque streaks of darker colour intermixed. It is formed of straight, rigid, longitudinal fibres, which again may be resolved into flattened cells of a fusiform outline ; they are marked with ridges and furrows, and united to one another by fibrils, as in the deeper cells of stratified epithelium.^ The colour of the fibrous substance is caused by oblong patches of pigment-granules, and generally diffused colouring- matter of less intensity. Very slender elongated nuclei are also discovered in the cells by means of reagents. Dark specks or marks often noticeable in the fibrous substance are occasioned by minute irregularly shaped cavities containing air ; most ’ Cf. Waldeyer, Atlas d. mensclil. u. thier. Haare, 1884. - Waldeyer, op. cit.\ Reinke, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. xxx. 1887 ; Retterer, C. r. soc. de biol. Ixiv. 1908 ; Branca, Annales de dermat. et syphilis, 1910. Fig. 675.—Human hair. (Schafer.) A, the surface of the hair focussed to show the cuticular scales. R, optical section. The medulla looks clear, the air having been expelled from it by Canada balsam.