THE SPLEEN Hosp. Bull, xvii. 1906. 405 trabecula}. Lewis found at this time no sign of lymphoid tissue in the spleen or thymus and no lymphocytes in the blood. Accumulations of lymphoid tissue occur later in different parts {e.g. in the mucous and serous membranes) in connexion with the formation of a reticulum of branching mesenchyme- cells, either outside of or witliin a sinus-like lymph-vessel, a network of blood-capillaries becoming developed within the reticular tissue (fig. 604) (Klein).' THE SPLEEN. The spleen has two membranous investments—a serous coat derived from the peritoneum, and a fibrous coat, or tunica fropria. The soft substance {pulp) of the organ is supported by a reticular framework of fibrous and muscular bands {trabecula^). A B Fig. 604. —Developing lymph-nobules fkom the guinea-pig’s omentum. (Klein.) A, formation of lymphoid tissue outside a sinus-like lymph-vessel. a, lumen of vessel; c, its endothelium; e, lymph-corpuscles within it; d, blood-vessels; b, lymphoid tissue consisting of branched connective-tissue cells, attached to the endothelium and containing lymphocytes in the meshes of the reticulum which they form. B, formation of lymphoid tissue in the interior of a lymph-sinus. a, b, c, venule, arteriole, and capillary network, all enclosed within the sinus ; d, lumen of sinus; e, lymphoid tissue within the sinus ; f, endothelium of sinus. The serous coat is thin, smooth, and firmly adherent to the tunica propria beneath. It closely invests the surface of the organ, except where it is reflected to adjacent organs, and at the hilum. The tunica propria or capsule (figs. 605 to 607), much thicker and stronger than the serous coat, is whitish in colour and highly elastic. It is composed of fibrous and muscular tissue with many elastic fibres, and at intervals gives off trabeculae into the interior. Along the hilum the proper coat is reflected into the interior of the spleen in the form of large trabeculae, which support and ensheath the blood-vessels and nerves entering here, and ramify along with the blood-vessels, as far as their finer subdivisions. These trabeculae, which pass in at the hilum, become continuous in the interior of the organ with the numerous trabecular processes which, as already stated, pass in from the whole inner surface of the capsule. This arrangement of the sheaths and trabeculae may be easily displayed in the spleen of the ox by pressing and washing out the pulp from a thick section ; ^ For the mode of regeneration of lympli-glands after partial excision see Meyer, Johns Hopkins