THE BLOOD 878 differences seem to exist in different animals. The account above given mainly follows the observations of Maximow upon the development of blood-corpuscles in the rabbit-embryo. But Jolly and Acuna ‘ found no leucocytes in the blood of guinea-pig embryos of less than sixteen days, and it is certain that erythroblasts make their appearance in the vascular area of these animals very early. In fact, the view has been held by most authorities that the white corpuscles of the blood are of later formation in the embryo than the (nucleated) red corpuscles, and that they are produced outside the vessels, into which they eventually penetrate by virtue of their amoeboid activity.- Engel ^ found in the human embryo at first only erythroblasts in the vessels, lymphocytes appearing subsequently ; and, about the third month, polymorphous leucocytes. Many of the erythroblasts have disappeared from the blood by the third month,^ having given place to erythrocjrtes which are larger than those of the adult. Bryce describes in Lepidosiren “ both leucocytes and erythroblasts as developing from primitive blood-cells, destitute of coloured protoplasm ; and a somewhat similar account is given by Dantschakoff ® for the chick. Similarly Dantschakoff ’ finds that in the reptile the primitive blood-cell in the vascular area is a hsemo- blast, resembling a large lymphocyte, which gives origin to all blood-cells. But within the blood-islands only erythroblasts (and erythrocytes) are formed from this cell, the leucocytes being Fig. 570.—Groups of primitive erythroblasts in mesoderm of EMBRYO-RABBIT. (MaximOW.) a, normoblasts; h, b\ erythroblasts; b”, extrusion of nucleus from an erythroblast; VI, mesenchyme-cells; vi', mesenchyme-cells containing haemoglobin; 7i, an extruded nucleus; bl, an erythrocyte. produced outside the vessels and finding their way into them only later. This is like the account the same author gives of blood-formation in the chick, and is said by Maximow to be true also for Amphibia, although in Selachia he finds some of the cells in the blood-islands developing into leucocytes. Schridde® describes the erythroblasts as appearing in the first instance in the form of megaloblasts (large cells containing relatively little haemoglobin and a basophil protoplasm) from which by division other erythroblasts (normoblasts) become formed; he states very positively that in the process of conversion into erythrocytes the nucleus is not extruded but absorbed. Schridde denies that the primitive blood-cells are of the nature of lymphocytes, but regards them as myelocytes, and asserts that they give origin to all other kinds of leucocytes except lympho- cytes, which according to him are formed later, after the development of the lymph-vessels, and by a process of budding from the endothelium of these vessels.® ’ Arch, d’anat. microsc. vii. 1905. Also Jolly, ibid. ix. 1907. - Cf. Kdlliker, Handbuch der Gewebelehre, 1889; Van der Stricht, Arch, de biol. xi. and xii. 1891, 1892; C. r. soc. biol. 1895; Bull, de I’acad. roy.de Belgique, 1899. See also former editions of this text-book, where the earlier literature is referred to. ^ Arch. f. mikr. Anat. liii. 1899. ' See, however, the statement of Griineberg (p. 375). Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1904. ** Op. cit. Verhandl. d. anat. Gesellsch., Anat. Anz. 1910. Centralbl. f. Path. xix. 1908. ® Cf. W. Tiirck, ibid., and J. E. Jordan, Anat. Anz. xxxvii. 1910.