550 SMALL INTESTINE The lymph-follicles which by their aggregation make up a Peyer's patch are in almost all respects similar to the solitary glands above described. As a rule, their surface is free from villi, and the crypts of Lieberkiihn are collected in circles around them. Fine blood-vessels are distributed abundantly on the exterior of the follicles and give off still finer capillary branches, which, supported by the reticular tissue, are disposed principally in lines converging to the centre (fig. 801). The lacteal plexuses, which are abundant in the whole extent of the intestine, are especially rich where they surround the follicles of Peyer's glands (fig. 802), often forming sinuses around them, as in the case of the solitary glands. From twenty to thirty of these oblong patches may in general be found ; but in young persons as many as forty-five have been observed. They are larger and placed at shorter distances from each other in the lower part of the ileum; but in its upper portion as well as in the lower end of the jejunum the patches occur less fre- quently, become smaller, and are of nearly circular form ; they may, however, be dis- covered occasionally in the lower portion of the duodenum. Still smaller irregularly shaped clusters of lymph-follicles are some- times found scattered throughout the in- testine. Peyer's patches are best marked in the young subject. After middle life they become less obvious, and they disappear almost completely in advanced age, their remains being often indicated by a dark coloration of the mucous membrane. Blood-vessels of the small intes- tine.—The branches of the mesenteric artery, having reached the attached border of the intestine, pass round its sides, divid- ing as they pass into numerous branches, some of which anastomose at the free border. Most of the branches run at first under the serous coat, but they turn in one after the other at successive intervals and pass through the muscular coat into the submucosa, where they ramify abundantly (fig. 803). As they pierce the muscular coat they give ofi' a few vessels to it, but this coat is mainly supplied by recurrent branches which come off the vessels in the submucosa. In the muscular coat the capillaries are arranged with oblong meshes parallel to the muscular bundles in the respective layers. From the plexus of vessels in the submucosa arteries to the mucosa are given off, and piercing the muscularis mucosee ramify in the mucous membrane near the base of the glands. From the ramifications arise capillaries which form a close net- work around the crypts of Lieberkiihn, at the surface of the mucous membrane and within each villus, immediately below the basement-membrane. As already stated. G.lli, Fig. 803. — Section of small intestine WITH BLOOD-VESSELS, INJECTED. (Heitzmann.) V, villi; gl, glands; m.m., muscularis mucosse; submucosa; c.wi.,circular, and l.m., longitudinal muscular layers ; s, serous coat.