LARYNX 576 The mucous membrane of the larynx.—The laryngeal mucous membrane is thin and of a pale colour. In some situations it adheresclosely to the subjacent parts, especially on the epiglottis, and still more so in passing over the true vocal cords, on which it is very thin. In and near the aryteno-epiglottic folds it covers a quantity of loose areolar tissue, which is liable in disease to infiltration, constituting oedema of the glottis. Like the mucous membrane in the rest of the air-passages, that of the larynx is covered in the greater part of its extent with a columnar epithelium provided with cilia (fig. 839) by the action of which the mucus is urged upwards ; but at the edges of the superior orifice and over the upper part of the back of the epiglottis the epithelium assumes a stratified form, as in the pharynx and mouth. Upon the true vocal cords also the epithelium is stratified, although both above and below them it is columnar and ciliated. Patches of stratified epithelium are likewise found here and there in the ciliated tract above the glottis. The an- terior surface of the epiglottis is covered by stratified epithelium, which is thicker than that on the posterior surface where no microscopic papillae project into it from the corium. Taste-buds are here and there found imbedded in the stratified epithelium of the larynx (but not over the vocal cords). The ciliated epithelium-cells, between which numerous goblet-cells occur, rest on a thick basement- membrane, and the corium of the mucous membrane below this contains much lym- phoid tissue and many elastic fibres (fig. 839), as in the trachea. The lining membrane of the larynx is provided with tuhulo-racemose glands, which secrete an abundant mucus. Their orifices may be seen almost everywhere excepting upon and near the true vocal cords. They abound particularly upon the epiglottis, in the substance of which are found upwards of fifty small compound glands, some of them perforating the cartilage. Between the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue is a mass of yellowish fat, erroneously named the epiglottic gland, in or upon which some small glands may exist. Another collection of glands is placed within the fold of mucous membrane in front of each arytenoid cartilage, from which a series may be traced forwards, along the corresponding- superior vocal cord. The glands of the laryngeal pouches have already been noticed. Vessels and nerves of the larynx.—The arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior thyroid, a branch of the external carotid, and from the inferior thyroid, a branch of the subclavian. The veins join the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins. The lymphatics are divisible into two sets, upper and lower. The upper pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane and join glands near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery ; the lower pass through the crico-thyroid membrane, and end either in one or two small glands often found in front of that membrane, or in some inferior laryngeal glands at the side of the lower part of the larynx. Their mode of distribution resembles that in the trachea. The nerves are supplied Fig. 839.—Section of mucous membkane OF LABYNX. (Merkel.) g, a goblet-cell amongst the ciliated epithelium-cells; h, basement-membrane; I, lymphoid tissue; e, elastic fibres, cut across.