416 SEEOUS MEM]]RANE8 The parts situated in a cavity lined by serous membrane, being themselves covered by it, can thus glide easily against its parietes or upon each other, and their motion is rendered smoother by the lubricating fluid. The outer surface most commonly adheres to the parts which it lines or covers, the connexion being effected by means of areolar tissue, named therefore ‘ sub- serous,’ which, when the membrane is detached, gives to its outer and previously adherent surface a flocculent aspect. The degree of firmness of the adhesion is very Fig. 617. Endothelium-cells of serous membrane seen in profile view, showing PROTOPLASMIC BRIDGES STRETCHING ACROSS THE INTERCELLULAR SPACES. (M. Heiclenhain.) various : in some parts the membrane can scarcely be separated ; in others its attachment is so lax as to permit easy displacement. Structure and properties.—Serous membranes are thin and transparent, so that the colour of subjacent parts shines through them. They are tolerably strong, with a moderate degree of extensibility and elasticity. They are lined on the inner surface by a simple layer of clear flattened irregularly polygonal cells {serous endo- thelium, (fig. 616), each of which contains a round or oval nucleus with one or two nucleoli, and an intranuclear network. The outlines of the cells may readily be Fig. 618.—Portion of endothelium of peritoneum from the under surface of the rabbit’s diaphragm. (Kleiu.) a, larger cells; h, small ones, with here and there a pseudostoma between. brought into view by treatment with nitrate of silver. The intercellular lines of junction which are thus made evident may be straight and even, but are most commonly slightly jagged or sinuous. They are not everywhere completely separated from one another by cement-substance, but may be interconnected by protoplasmic bridges (fig. 617), which stretch across the intervals between adjacent cells. ^ According to Kolossow there is a thin cuticular layer on the free surface of the endothelium-cells of serous membranes. This cuticle may show vertical striations.’'^ ' A. Kolossow, Arch. f. mila’. Anat. xlii. 1893. ^ Cf. v. Brunn, Centralbl. f. Path. xi. 1900.