249 NERVE-IiEGKNE RATION again, cvontnally form a considerable group. It would appear tlierefore that the regeneration of a cnt nerve is effected by a growth of new fibres from the axis- cylinders of the central cut end, and that frequently many more such fibres are formed in the first instance than the old ones which have undergone degeneration. The growth from the old axis-cylinders usually occurs in the situation of a node— either the one nearest to the section or one somewhat higher up (Ranvier). The growing axons either find their way into the old neurolemmal sheaths or into the interstices between them (figs. 386, 337) ; in this case fresh nucleated sheaths become formed around them. The new fibres are at first pale, but subsequently acquire a medullary sheath, still later a neurolemma, with constrictions of Ranvier. These, as in young nerves, are placed at much more frequent inter- vals than in the old fibres, so that the segments are much shorter. The fibres which grow thus in groups from the old axis-cylinders are often very irregular in their course, twisting around one another, and even looping back in some places for a considerable distance (tig. 387). In the cicatrix especially is tliis irregularity and obliquity of dis- position noticeable, probably on account of the absence here of the guide formed by the sheaths of the original fibres. If the cut ends are brought by sutures into close juxtaposition regeneration is effected more quickly than if there is an obvious gap left between the ends. But the individual cut fibres never unite directly. In case a gap should be left between the cut ends, as, for example, when a piece of the nerve is actually excised, it is necessary to introduce into the interval some material which can act as a guide for the outgrowing fibres of the central cut end. Huber ' found that the best guide-material was a piece of dead (and, of course, aseptic) nerve. Restoration of function in the nerve may not occur for several months,- during which time it may be presumed the new nerve-fibres are slowly finding their way along the course of those which have been destroyed as a result of the section. Of the numerous fibres in the groups above described, no doubt a few only eventually assume the function of the fibres which they replace, but the later steps of the process of regeneration have not yet been fully followed out. The ends of the growing axis-cylinders are characterised by a bulbous aspect, reminding- one of the enlargement on the growing ends of the axon of the neuroblast (figs. 384, 386). Moreover, the regenerating fibres may fork or give off lateral buds, and these again may form a fine interlacement around the main outgrowing fibre. Such complications, however, all ultimately disappear as the regeneration of the nerve becomes complete. Fig. 387.—Various forms op aborted axis-cylinder SPROUTS FROM A REGENERATING NERVE. (Cajal.) A, a large fibre with numerous lateral buds (c, c, d) from axis-cylinder; B, a small fibre growing inter- stitially showing a lateral bulb-like sprout; D, an irre- gularly constricted axis-cylinder with a terminal bulb and two fine lateral fibrils each ending in a bulb-like enlargement; C, a fibre containing a large number of fine fibrils which have sprouted from the axis-cylinder and are growing in all directions within the sheath. ^ Journ. Morph, xvi. lUOO. ^ See the experiments of H. Head, Brain, xxviii. xxix. 1905; and of Trotter and Morriston-Davies Joum. Physiol, xxxviii. 1909