774 ANATOMY. the embryo, the splanehno-pleure and hypoblast are included with- V ViG. 217.—Transverse section throuRh the body of an embryo Chick about the 3rd day. d, dorsal, and v, ventral surface of embryo ; N, neural axis; c, central canal; c/i, chorda dorsalis; pv, protovertebras; m, m, mesoblast; e, e, epiblast; ao, aorta; A, primitive alimentary canal; A, hypoblast; H, heart;en, endocardium; Sjo,splanch- no-pleure ; s, somato-plcure ; pp, pleuro-peritoneal cavity; b, b, divided vessels in thcwall of the body.—Modi- fied from Schenk. in the thoracico-abdominal cham- ber. The sjilitting of the meso- b]ast into two layers occasions a cavity between the somato-pleure and splanehno-pleure, which cavity forms th.e pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The Primitive A limeniary Canal is a straight, or almost straight tube, and lies in relation to the ventral surface of the chorda dorsalis, and the bodies of the vertebrae which are developed around the chorda. From its anterior closed end, or the fore- gut, are developed the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and duo- denum. From its posterior closed end, or the hind gut, are developed the rectum, and sigmoid flexure of the colon. From its inter- mediate part, or the middle gut, are developed the jejunum and ileum, the coecum, and the greater part of the colon. In the differentiation of fhe walls of the primitive tube, which leads to the formation of these different divisions of the alimen- tary canal, the cells of the hypo- blast are transformed into the epi- thelium situated on the surface of its mucous membrane, whilst the muscular and connective tissues, the vascular and nervous structures in the wall of the several divisions of the canal, are differentiated r om the cells of the mesoblast. The pprimitive pharynx is the most anterior part of the primi- tive alimentary canal, and is enclosed by the visceral and vascular arches in the head of the embryo. As the pharynx lies in the embryo head, the splitting of the mesoblast into the two definite laj ers of somato-pleure and splanchno pleure, is not seen in con-