775 DEVELOPMENT OE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. nection with it, but that part of the mesohlast, which differentiates into the muscular coat, and into the several layers of connective tissue entering into the formation of the pharyngeal wall, is con- tinuous with the splanchno-pleure layer belonging to the other divisions of the alimentary canal. Its anterior end is closed, and has at first no communication with the mouth, which is not developed from the primitive alimentary canal. The mouth is formed on the facial aspect of the early embryo, by an involution of the epihlast and of the immediately subjacent mesohlast, so as to form a pit, or depression, situated between the superior maxillary plates and the mandibular or first pair of vis- ceral arches. This pit deepens, and widens into the buccal cavity. At first it freely communicates with the embryo nasal chamber, but is subsequently cut off from it by the formation of the hard palate, though the anterior palatine foramina, which in many animals remain patent, keep up the original communication be- tween the oral and nasal chambers. The lining epithelium of the mouth is therefore of epiblast origin, and is continuous with the epiblast cuticle at the margins of the lips (fig. 208). An aperture of communication is formed in the course of time between the mouth and pharynx, so that they become continuous with each other, the communication being established at the fauces or pha- ryngo-oral aperture. The oesophagus is the part of the primitive canal which imme- diately succeeds the primitive pharynx, and when the formation of the visceral chambers is completed, it lies successively in the neck, thorax, and abdomen. The stomach is at first a straight, and but little dilated part of the canal, lying vertically in the visceral chamber, and con- nected to the ventral surface of the spinal column by a fold of the mesohlast, named the mesogastrivm. As the stomach dilates and assumes its curvatures, it turns over on its right side, so that the original left surface becomes anterior, and the right surface posterior. This change in position explains why the left vagus supplies the anterior wall of the stomach, and the right vagus the posterior wall. The mesogastrium becomes the great omentum. The duodenum is the last part of the alimentary canal deve- loped from the fore-gut. It also loses its straight direction, and forms a horse-shoe curve. The jejunum and ileum are at first a simple loop of the primitive middle gut, which is connected to the ventral surface of