ANATOMY. 680 lower free border of tbe great omentum, these descending layers bend upwards as tbe ascending layers of tbe great omentum, and in tbeir ascent meet tbe transverse colon, when tbe two ascending layers separate from each other in order to enclose tbe transverse colon. After enclosing it, they again come together, and pass backwards to tbe spine as tbe transverse meso-colon* Tbe two layers of tbe transverse meso-colon then separate from each other. Tbe one ascends in front of tbe pancreas to tbe diaphragm, where it becomes continuous with the posterior layer of tbe coronary and left lateral ligaments of tbe liver. Tbe other descends as tbe anterior layer of tbe mesentery, reaches tbe coUs of tbe jejunum and ileum, is prolonged around tbe wall of tbe gut, and then ascends to tbe spine, as the posterior layer of tbe mesentery. Tbe line of attachment of tbe two layers of tbe mesentery to tbe front of tbe spine is called tbe root of the mesentery. From this line the peritoneum spreads gut laterally; on tbe right side of tbe abdomen it covers tbe anterior and lateral surfaces of tbe coecum and ascending colon, but not tbe posterior surface; on tbe left side of the abdomen it has a similar relation to tbe descending colon, but it forms a complete investment for tbe sigmoid flexure of tbe colon, and is reflected to tbe left iliac fossa as tbe sigmoid meso-colon. From tbe root of tbe mesentery tbe posterior layer * This account of the relation of the omentum to the transverse colon and. meso-colon is in conformity with the arrangement one sees in the adult hody, and accords with the description usually found in the text hooks. But it should be stated, that observations have been m.ade by various anatomists which prove that, in the fcetus, the transverse meso- colon is a fold of the jieritoneum quite distinct from the ascending layers of tlie great omentum, and that the arrangement seen in the adult is duo to a secondary fusion of these peritoneal folds with each other.