ANATOMY. 576 cells arrange themselves so as to form the wall of a single tube. The cells of the wall are contractile, and in the course of time differentiate into muscular tissue and an endocardium. But from the recent observations of Kolliker, on the early stages of develop- ment of the mammalian embryo, it would appear that the single tube is preceded by a stage, in which there are two tubes situated side by side, which, however, soon fuse together and then form a single tube. This tube receives at its posterior end two omphalo-mesen- teric veins from the vascular area. It gives off anteriorly two arteries, the ventral aortic roots, which run forwards at the sides of the primitive pharynx ; they then arch towards the embryonic spine, run backwards below the primordial vertebrse, and form the two primitive dorsal aortce, from which arise the omphalo-mesen- teric arteries that pass into the vascular area. Two transverse constrictions then appear in the wall of the simple heart tube, which indicate a differentiation into three chambers—a posterior or primitive auricle; an anterior, the arterial bulb or truncus communis arteriosus; and an intermediate chamber or primitive ventricle. At the same time, a sigmoid bend takes place in the tube, which becomes doubled on itself, so as to throw the primitive auricle on the dorsal surface of the primitive ventricle. This con- dition of the heart in the human embryo is found at about the third week of development, and it represents the permanent condi- tion of the organ in fish. A few cases have been recorded in which the development of the human heart had not passed beyond this stage, and the child was bom with only a single auricle and a single ventricle. Changes then begin to take place in the interior of the three chambers into which the tube has become divided, which result in the conversion of the single auricle into two auricles, of the single ventricle into two ventricles, and of the truncus communis arteriosus into the ascending aorta, and the trunk of the pulmonary artery. The conversion of the primitive ventricle into two ventricles is due to the formation of a muscular septum in the ventricular chamber. It appears at about the sixth week in the human heart, and grows from the apex to the base of the ventricle. The apex of the ventricle then becomes the apex of the heart, and a groove, on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricular part of the heart, marks the position of the two borders of the septum. The base of the septum, and the bases of the ventricles, are directed to the auricles and the orifices of the great arteries. The septum is complete about the eighth week, and the two ventricles then form