ANATOMY. 858 the corpus spougiosum urethrae. In the female this closure does not occur, but the folds grow downwards and increase in size to form the nymphae. The urethra has therefore no relation to the clitoris, hut opens independently into the vestibule, or persistent lower part of the uro-genital sinus. The bulbs of the vestibule represent the bulbous part of the male corpus spongiosum, but from the absence of a corpus spongiosum urethrae in the female, they do not meet in the mesial line and remain as independent bilateral bodies. At the sides also of the uro-genital sinus folds of integument arise. In the female they form the labia majora, and are separated from each other by the vertical fissure which communicates with the vestibule ; whilst in the male the two folds meet in the middle line of the perineum to form the scrotum, the line of union being permanently marked by the raised raphe of the scrotum. In the development of the external organs of generation the female does not present so perfect a mesial union of the originally bilateral folds as takes place in the male, so that the female does not make so great an advance, but preserves certain arrangements which represent a transitional stage in the male development. The development of the internal organs in the two sexes shows much more important divergences. Thus in the formation of the male genital passages, whilst the Miillerian duct takes no part, the Wolffian duct is of primary importance. In the female, again, the genital passages are dilatations of the Mullerian ducts, and the Wolffian ducts do not contribute to their production. The genital glands, again, though arising in both sexes from the intermediate cell mass, yet owe their essential constituents to different portions of that mass of cells. For whilst the ova are special differentiations of the corpuscles of the germ epithelial layer on its surface, the seminal tubes, with their contents, are derived from the subjacent sub-epithelial tissue. Owing to these differences in the development of the sexual ap- paratus in the male and female, the possibility arises of individuals being produced, possessing in a more or less strongly marked degree the characters of the two sexes. For example, the want of union of the two halves of the scrotum in the mesial line of the perineum would cause a mesial vertieal cleft between the two lateral folds of integument; if this were conjoined with the want of union of the two lateral halves of the uro-genital groove, the urethra would open, not at the end of the penis, but in the vertical mesial cleft. Externally, therefore, the individual might appear to have the