DEVELOPMENT OF DIGESTIVE OEGANS. 773 Development of the Digestive and Respieatoet Systems. The Digestive and Respiratory Systems are for the most part developed from the mesohlast and hj’poblast layers of the blas- toderm, the epiblast having but a limited share in their forma- tion. "When the differentiation of the blastoderm into three layers has taken place, its deepest or hypoblast layer lies in contact with the yolk, and is in the course of time prolonged over it to form the epithelial layer of the wall of the umbilical vesicle. As the axial part of the body of the embryo rises up from the surface of the yolk (through the occurrence of those changes in the epiblast and mesoblast which lead to the formation of the nervous axis, the chorda dorsalis, and the protovertebree (p. 211), a fold takes place at both the cephalic and caudal ends of the embryo. At the same time the hypoblast, both anteriorly and posteriorly, becomes folded so as to form the anterior and posterior ends of a tube, whilst the intermediate part of the hypoblast continues to invest the yolk as the waU of the mribilical vesicle. The hypoblast tube, owing to the folding at its anterior and posterior ends, forms, in front and behind, a cul-de-scic; but its intermediate part relatively has the form[of a wide furrow, and communicates freely with the yolk sac. Subsequently, as the hypoblast assumes the tubular shape, in the intermediate part likewise the communication becomes constricted, and forms the ompkalo-mcsenteric duct. The tube in its whole length is the Primitive Alimentary Canal. At the same time important changes are going on in the meso- blast on each side of the protovertehrse. It splits into two layers, one of which, named the somato-pleure layer, adheres to the epi- blast, and forms with it the ventral wall of the body of the young embryo ; for as it increases in .size it grows towards the ventral surface of the body, and encloses the future thoracic and abdominal cavities. At the umbilicus, however, an opening remains in the mesial ventral Une, which permits the structures constituting the umbilical cord, to pass out to the placenta. The other layer of the mesoblast, named the splanchno-pleure layer, adheres to the hypoblast, and along with it forms the primitive alimentary canal, and the several viscera which are developed as diverticular offshoots from that canal. Owing to the extension of the somato-pleure, with its cuticular covering of epiblast, to the ventral mesial line of