(BlasQOW; I «ESSAYS ON SURGERY & MIDWIFERY; WITH PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS, AND SELECT CASES. By JAMES BARLOW, Surgeon. WITH PLATES. LONDON: PUBLISHED BY BAUJWIN, CU/VDOCK & JOY, 47, PATERNOSTER-ROW; T. & G. UNDERWOOD, 32, FLEET-s'tREET ; AND E. COX & SOU, 39, HIGH-STREET, DOROUGH. 1822.ROGEHSON, PaiNTER, BLACKBURN.TO Dr. IIAWORTH, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND PHYSICIAN TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL; Sir ASTLEY COOPER, Bart. F. R. S. SURGEON TO GUY'S HOSPITAL; AND JOHN ABERNETHY, F. R. S. SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW S & CHRIST'S HOSPITALS, <©f ilottlJOtt, THIS VOLUME IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED, AS A TESTIMONY OF ESTEEM AND FRIENDSHIP, BY THEIR OBEDIENT SERVANT, JAMES BARLOW. Blackburn, Lancashire.I Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b21461971ADVERTISEMENT. The following Essays are submitted to the notice of the Faculty, with that confidence which arises from a lively interest in every thing which tends to secure the efficiency of Professional exertion. The Author, for many years, has been in the habit of attending, not only to the prac- tical rules which experience and observation have supplied, but to the principles which are involved in their application, and esta- blished by their success. He is convinced, that the more the efforts of a Practitioner in Surgery are directed by an accurate knowledge of Physiology and Anatomy, in their varied and interesting details, the greater will be the certainty ofvi eventual and permanent respectability and success. On this ground, he has often re- gretted the too frequent neglect of those pursuits which connect the attainment of skill with the study of science ; and in con- sequence of which, the Philosophy of the healing art, in its Surgical and Medical Departments, has not kept pace with the facilities acquired by practice. He rejoices, however, that the diffusion of knowledge, and the legislative arrange- ments which have of late been made, not only for the honour of the profession, but for the benefit of the community, have effectually secured an increasing attention to every branch of science, directly or remotely connected with that important de- partment in society, which the Students of Surgery and Medicine are destined to oc- cupy. Frequently has the author lamented, that when his professional career began, the same requisitions were not enforced, andvii of course the same advantages of scientific instruction were not generally professed, and the locality of his situation has also greatly deprived him of these professional advantages. He has, nevertheless, endea- voured to supply the deficiency by assiduous investigation and patient research, when the intervals afforded by extensive and la- borious practice gave him time and oppor- tunity. In the studies connected with his profes- sion, he has always felt the deepest interest, and enjoyed no ordinary gratification ; and being in the habit of committing to writing the result of his enquiries, (in the first in- stance solely for his own improvement,) he has ventured to lay before the public those which are contained in this volume. From a variety of papers he has selected such as have excited, on his part, the great- est degree of attention ; and though some of the Essays were communicated by the Authorviii to the Periodical Journals, in the early part of his practice, yet time and experi- ence have suggested those improvements and corrections which have enabled him to en- large considerably his original communica- tions. He trusts that what he has published will be received with that liberality and candour which are the best ornaments of professional excellence. He has no wish to disarm the severity of criticism by acknow- ledgments or professions, because he makes no pretensions beyond such as are founded on a sincere desire to advance the interests of surgical science, and to facilitate the operations of surgical skill. JAMES BARLOW. Blackburn, January, 1822.CONTEISITS. PAGEX ON MIDWIFERY. page All Enquiry into the various Opinions advanced by Writers on Midwifery, respecting the management of the Pla- centa, 175 A Case of Labour in which the Expulsion of the Placenta preceded the Delivery of the Child 273 A Case of Twins, with the intervention of Three Days be- twixt the Delivery of the two Placentas 275 On the advantages and disadvantages of inducing Prema- ture Labour, with a view of superceding Embryulcia, the Section of the Symphysis Pubis, and the Cajsarean Operation 277 A Synoptical Table of the different degrees of Distortion of the Pelvis; with the respective methods of Delivery annexed 354 Three Cases of Caesarean Operation 355 Observations on Delivery in Difficult cases of the Presenta- tion of the Shoulder of the Foetus ; and where one or both arras present along with the head 384 Inventors of Extracting Instruments 404 Inventors of Perforating and Extracluig Instruments 405 Four Plates with explanation, after page 417. IPRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS ON SOME DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS CONNECTED WITH STONE IN THE BLADDER, AND ON THE USE OF THE FLEXIBLE CATHETER. It is not ray intention, in these preliminary re- marks, to enter minutely into the description and method of treating the morbid affections of the urinary organs in general: I purpose merely to touch on a few particular diseases more intimately connected with Lithotomy. A comprehensive knovvledge of the structure of the pelvis, and functions of its connected viscera, and the mutual relations and sympathies which each organ bears to the respective diseases to which they are liable, is indispensably necessary to direct the medical enquirer to their true source and diagnosis, as well as to the most appropriate remedies. By this mode of research, it will be ascertained that a muscular nervous structure be- longs to these parts, and that they are endowed with great sympathy ; which, when assailed by disease, excites impressions on one organ that are translated to some other remote |jart; and thus by a law of association in the animal economy, B10 WG are enabled to explain the diversified symp- toms so pften equivocally manifested in the mor- bid affections of the bladder and the neighbouring parts. Such an assemblage of muscular and ner- vous actions is formed in this part of the system, as to occasion a frequent exposure to pain and disease, and therefore to require the most prompt and judicious treatment. Indeed no subject in the whole circle of surgical science appears of greater importance than lithotomy and the diseases associ- ated therewith; nor is there any which renders more necessary a competent view of the anatomy of the parts in all their bearings ; an accurate knowledge of which is indispensably requisite, when con- templating an operation of such vast moment. There is a progressive evolution which cha- racterises the human body ; and various diseases invade certain parts of the system as life advances, though in their first stage they ai^6 of a latent and obscure nature : none however appear more fre- quently than morbid affections of the prostate gland. This progressive change of organic struc- ture is perpetually acting on the living body, and appears inseperable from human growth and de- cay. The prostate gland and neck of the bladder, from their vascular texture and situation, are per- haps more exposed to disease than most other parts of the system from pecuhar causes : among which are high living, constipation of the bowels,11 and excessive sexiial intercourse. Tliese excite luidue action of the blood vessels of the j^erineum; and the prostate gland in advanced life being more disposed to enlargement than at an earlier period, the orifice of the bladder becomes in part blocked up, so that the urine seldom gets com- pletely evacuated and a sediment is left behind. When there exists in the constitution a predispo- sition to the formation of calculi, portions of gravel which pass from the ureters are retained in the cavity of this receptacle till a nucleus is formed ; and this may be one way in which calculi are pri- marily produced, and eventually become increased to a size too large to pass through the urethra naturally. Thus one disease frequently tends to aggravate another, and in this instance a retention of urine at intervals occurs; hence the aid of the catheter is required as a means of affording tem- porary relief to the patient. Most diseases of the urinary organs are marked by various diagnostic symptoms peculiar to them- selves, though often participating in some degree with other affections of the neighboui'iug parts. The symptoms attending a diseased prostate gland, and those of calculi or a morbid affection of the coats of the bladder, are so associated with each other, that no true diagnostic can be fmmed without an actual investigation, either by means of the finger passed up the rectnm, or by the sound12 into the bladder; and this mode of enquiry should never be dispensed with when there is reason to suspect a combination of these affections. The substance of the gland is apt to become inflamed from various causes, which may proceed to the formation of an abscess, and terminate in sup- puration of one or more of its lobes. Occasionally a deposit of puss is also formed in small sacks or follicles; and this species of diseased pros- tate usually produces retention of urine, by pressing on the sides of the urethra, and dimi- nishing its diameter. Sometimes an abscess will form in the vicinity of the gland, and either burst into the bladder during the introduction of the catheter, or the puss be discharged through the instrument, aud pass off spontaneously. In either case it may be prudent to allow a flexible catheter to remain in the passage for a few days, to aid the further evacuation of the contents of this viscus so long as the discharge appears purulent; or until the gland subsides to its natural and healthy state, or the wound is healed, to prevent the urine getting diffused in the pouch of the abscess, and thus irritating the surface of the sore, and preventing its healing. In some more rare instances, a portion of the posterior, or middle lobe of the gland becomes enlarged, pro- jects into the bladder, and hermetically closes the opening of the urethra, so that the point13 of the catheter cannot be made to pass by the pi'otnberance without great difficulty. During the efforts of the surgeon its point may be inadver- tently pushed into the substance of the gland, or oet entangled either in the excretory ducts of the vesicula: seminales, or in some of the larger lacuna; of the urethra. As the gland is of a spongy texture, when accompanied with inflammation, ex- tending along the urethra, this delicate membrane may give way rather than the passage yield to the impulse of the instrument; and thus do irre- parable mischief by the urine getting diffused among the cellular membrane. In cases where the bladder is excited to great pain and irritation, either from the presence of calculi or some morbid affection of its coats, ac- companied with an irresistible solicitation to urine, and painfol sensations in the gians penis, or neck of the bladder, attended with a discharge of mucus from the urethra, I have frequently succeeded in soothing the pain and irritability of this viscus and its adjacent parts, by occa- sionally injecting a solution of opium, or infusion of the leaves of Belladonne and Mucilage Acacia in tepid water into the bladder. This fluid may be useful if it tends only to allay the acrid stiujulating property of the urine acting on the inner surface of the bladder. Sometniies the occasional passing of a bougie, though there be14 no stricture in the urethra, is attended witli ev^ dent advantage. On other occasions the gland may he invaded with an irrei^ular swelling, and greatly increase the prostatic curve of the urethra, thus distorting the passage so as to cause peniia- nent retention of urine. I have attended many cases of this description, and have sometimes succeeded in employing a catheter less curved than ordinary ; on otiier occasions, one more bent has seemed to pass into the bladder with greater freedom when assisted with the finger in tlie rectum ; but in cases so complicated, and where the passage is become much diminished and contorted by disease, this is mere chance, and the surgeon is left to grope his way, as it.were, in the dark in the best manner he can. An indolent and less sensible enlargement of the gland some- times occurs, distinguishable from phlegmonous inflammation, which is notunfrequently combined with a scrophulous diathesis, and which does not altogether produce constitutional irritation further than what is excited by occasioiial interruptions of the flow of urine. This may be relieved by a judicious introduction of the catheter; and if much difliculty be experienced, rather than having it to pass as often as the patient has occasion to evacuate his urine, lie may retain it in the bladder for a given time ; during which the urine may be evacuated ad libitum, either wlioUy or in part.15 The instrument, however, should be taken out occasionally and cleaned ; and if the urine is not discharged naturally by the action of the bladder during this interval, it may be replaced for a cer- tain period. This mode of distending the passage and allowing the parts time to regain their ordi- nary functions, may be advantageously adopted in many cases of morbid retention of urine, arising from inflammation, irritation, or indurated strufcture of the prostate gland. Another and no less perplexing cause of retention of urine, proceeds from active inflammation of the prostate gland, extending up the urethra, the tender vessels of which become so surcharged with blood, that on every gentle attempt to introduce the catheter, the eyes of the instrument get so com- pletely blocked Up before it enters the bladder, that no urine can pass through the tube. In this case the gland is usually of a spongy texture, and the blood often recedes into the cavity of the bladder, and from its gravity naturally occupies the lowest part, whilst the urine remains above. To obviate any obstruciibn ill the catheter, 1 usually plug up the eyes of the instrument with wax before 4ts''introduction, and when the point ha.^ reached the fundus vesica, I withdraw the stillct, and if the wax does not dissolve by the heat of the part in due tito'e, I then place my mouth io the open end, and by blowing forcibly16 llirough the tiil^e the wax will l)e forced out, and the urine pass off without furtlier interruption, In other cases, where the eyes of the catheter have not been previously plugged, and where the urine does not pass voluntarily, I adopt the same expe- dient, and generally with the same success. To prevent unnecessary irritation of the parts, by having recourse to the use of the catheter as often as the patient has a call to micturate, having once succeeded in its introduction, I generally prefer leaving it in the bladder; as the urinary organs are easily excited to inflammation by fre- quently passing the instrument. In most cases of diseased prostate gland, or affections of the bladder, accompanied with re- tention of urine, I have long been in the habit of retaining the flexible pewter catheter in the bladder, by first "passing the instrument in the usual way, and then introducing a finger up the rectum, pushing it upwards so that the concave part near the point will hook behind the os pubis, and remain permanently fixed ; I then plug up the open end of the catheter with a piece of cork, which may be taken out and replaced when the patient has a call to evacuate his urine. In cases where the coats of the bladder have ap- peared in a state of great irritation, or inflamma- tion, I have tied a small bladder to the open end of the catheter to receive the fluid as it dribbles17 through the tube; by which means the receptacle is always iu a collapsed and quiescent state, during which interval it will more readily resume its healthy state, and the system suffer less irritation. On some occasions it may be requisite to con- tinue the practice for several weeks, particularly in cases of paralysis of the bladder, and affections of the spine from injury: in such instances it is indispensably necessary to take out the instru- ment every sixth or eighth day, to clean it from incrustations which unavoidably form about the point, and which would, if neglected, occasion much pain and irritation of the urethra on its being withdrawn in that state. Before the use of the catheter be wholly relinquished, it is always requisite to leave it out occasionally, for a given time, that the patient may ascertain if he can make water without it; for whilst the expulsive powers are inadequate to empty the bladder, its application may be still requisite. But if this precaution be wholly neglected, the bladder may lose the power of expanding and contracting, and thus its functions be irreparably lost. Sup- puration and ulceration of the gland are no un- common occurrences after the frequent use of bougies or caustic; sometimes taking place independently of an enlargement of its substance, and forming sinuses in the different lobes of the c18 organ, or ulcerated foramina in the vicinity of tlie caput gallinaginis. This species of diseased prostate I have also knovj^n to terminate in an abscess of the perineum. In such cases, after the matter has been discharged, the catheter may be cautiously conducted into the bladder, and the point kept from getting entangled in the pouch formed by the abscess, or lacuna of the passage; and be retained there with the same view as before directed, or till the external wound be healed, lest the urine get diffused into the cellular membrane, and produce subsequent inflamma- tion. An inflammation of Cowper's gland is often accompanied with a difficulty of discharging the urine, attended with pain and swelling of the perineum, and occasional discharge of mucus from the urethra. Sometimes the gland sup- purates, and an abscess is formed in the perineum, and puss and urine are discharged by the wound; in this case the permanent use of the catheter will be found an eligible resource, and tend greatly to expedite the progress of the cure. When the bladder from any cause becomes surcharged with urine, and its muscular fibres are so distended, that it occupies the whole abdomen, and remains in this situation for two or three days, it usually loses its natural disposition to contraction; the use of the catheter becomes19 ill this stage of the disease, an uncertain remedy, the ureters and pelvis of the kidneys participate therewith, and the pecuUar valvular structure, by which these tubes communicate with the bladder, becomes changed, and the secretory functions of the kidneys suppressed. If a drib- bling of urine from the urethra did not take place, the bladder would more frequently yield to the effects of inflammation and gangrene than what we find to be the case. The gradual dribbling of the water by the urethra in cases of retention of urine and over- distention of the bladder, is sometimes un- observed by the patient in its incipient state, owing to the deceptive nature of the disease. . . I have seen cases of this description, where even the medical attendant has overlooked the symptoms, and considered the disease to be an incontinence of urine. Such cases,require prompt and early attention from the practitioner in order to obtain a passage by the urethra with the cathe- ter; for unless the urine l?e evacuated, the abdo- men becomes distended and painful, accompa- nied with thirst, quick pulse, dry skin, vomiting and a ghastly countenance ; while the inflamma- tion is insidiously spreading over the whole ot that region, a state of insensibility and dehrium is followed by hiccup, vomiting, and gangrene; and sometimes the urine either exudes through the20 coats gf the bhukler, or it gives way, and gets diffused into the cavity of the abdomen, in which case the patient is inevitably lost. On the con- trary, where the symptoms of inflammation have not made so much impression on the system, and a riiptm-e of the bladder takes place below that portion of the organ which is screened by the peritoneum, the surgeon should immediately pro- ceed to make a dependant opening into the cel- lular membrane, where the extravasated urine is lodged, and evacuate the fluid; and to promote the healing of the wound of the bladder, a cathetei- should be kept constantly in the passage of the urethra, lest a fresh supply of urine from the ureters be accumulated in the cavity, and prevent the process of the cure. In cases of enlarged prostate gland, it is obvious that what- ever sort of catheter be used, it should be longer than those in general use, and the curve and diameter adapted to the nature of the case, and inclination of the surgeon. Retention or a defect in the evacuation of the urine is always a serious disease, and may be produced by a variety of causes; such as, mecha- nical or morbid obstructions of the urethra, prostate gland, or inflammation of the bladder; for when this receptacle becomes extensively dis- tended for a length of time, it loses its power of contraction, and unless relieved by the catheter in21 due time, the urine becomes acrid, and inflamma- tion and mortification are the consequences. This calamity is more frequently incidental to the advanced state of life, and its morbid effects are, in some degree, counterbalanced by the system being less susceptible of irritation and stimuli than at an earlier period. I have known many old men retain their urine with comparative impunity for the space of two or three days ; and in one instance a gentleman, by whom I was consulted, was six days and nights without void- ing any urine. During the whole of that period, the catheter and other means had been fruitlessly employed by two medical attendants, who con- sidered the disease to be a suppression of the se- cretion of urine. In this case, instantly and without difficulty, I passed the catheter into the bladder, and evacuated more than three quarts of turbid offensive urine; and on passing the finger up the rectum, 1 discovered an enlarged prostate gland, which induced me to leave a flexible catheter, with a small calf's bladder affixed to it in this viscus, through which the urine was permitted to pass off ad libitum. The instrument was taken out and cleaned occasionally, at which times I could distinctly feel a calculus with its point, and after a lapse of a few weeks, the organ resumed its natural fimctions. The inflammatory symp- toms having subsided, I became anxious to as-22 certain the natural power of the bladder; for which purpose the catheter was left out, and in a few hours the gentleman was seized with excruci- ating pains about the neck of the bladder. On attempting to pass the instrument I perceived the calculus had got into the urethra, which led me to pass the finger up the rectum, with which I pressed the calculus forwards, whilst the point of the catheter served to distend the passage. In this manner I extracted a calculus about the size of a horse bean, and the instrument was replaced in the bladder as before. During this period the gentleman was allowed to walk about; and though he has since experienced occasional at- tacks of retention of urine, the same mode of treatment being adopted, his life has been pre- served, and he now enjoys a good state of health in the eighty-fifth year of his age. In addition to mechanical aid, these cases require a strict atten. tion to the antiphlogistic course, according to the age and condition of the patient. If there be a full quick pulse, with flushings of the face, and much fever general as well as local, bleeding will be proper, such as cupping from the pubis or perineum. The bowels should be emptied by brisk cathar- tics. If there exist much pain and irritation about the neck of the bladder, the tepid bath, and the ai)plication of leeches may be useful. A combi-2^ nation of the extract of Conii hyosciami, coloajn- i/ddis iindFilhijdrarg2jri may be given night and morning, along with the effervescing mixture, or one of Potasses nitras, with ipecacuan wine and Tinct digitalis. ■ I have likewise experienced in these cases great benefit from alternately injecting large portions of wai-m and cold water up the rectum. The use of mild diluting drinks will have a good effect in abating the stimulating qualities of the urine, such as barley-water or linseed-tea, with a portion of Potasses nitras added thereto. . If, notwithstanding, these means fail in arresting the progress of the disease, and it becomes pro- pagated by continuity to the neighbouring viscera, with tension and pain of the abdomen, accom- panied with hiccup and unrestrained vomiting, death is unavoidable. When it is necessary to pass the catheter on account of atony of the bladder, and retention of urine caused by injury inflicted on the spinal marrow, producing paralysis of this organ, and the whole of the lower extremities, the curve of the instrument should be less tiian common; otherwise the apex will be so much elevated in the bladder, (particularly if the patient be in a standing position) that a portion of the urine will unavoidably remain in the inferior part, behind its neck and below the plane of the eyes of the in-24 strament. To obviate this impediment, a cathe- ter slightly curved, and pressure made on the region of the bladder, will promote the discharge of the urine when aided by a varied position of the body of the patient; and by way of conveni- ence the instrument may be retained, and the water taken off when required. In this species of retention of urine, the catheter appears indispen- sably requisite before other means can be adopted with propriety; and an early introduction is always requisite, though it only afford temporary relief; the state of the spine should not be over- looked, but must be treated according to the nature of the case. There is in some peculiar constitutions, either a wrong distribution, or a deficiency of nervous energy in the organs of urine which produces paralysis of the bladder. Such a case I have at this time under my care ; the person in other re- spects enjoys a tolerable state of health, and is able to follow his occupation; he has for several years been under the necessity of evacuating his m-ine himself, being furnished with a flexible catheter for the purpose, and which he always carries about with him. Not very dissimilar to this affection is that which is produced fi-om disobeying^the calls of nature;* * It is said that Tyclio Brahe, the celebrated astronomer, died from this cause.25 ill consequence of which the muscular fibres of the bladder become expanded beyond their power of contraction, insomuch that a retention of urine follows. This species of retention of urine from paralysis, 1 conceive to be the only case in which the mode of partially evacuating the urine at inter- vals can be adopted with advantage. Sometimes a tumor has been known to press upon the nerves of the bladder causing paralysis and retention of urine; in which case recourse must be had to the use of the catheter, after which the chief re- medies in these affections, are the warm bath, electricity, stimulating embrocations, blisters, Tinct Cantharides in conjunction with mercury. Inflammation of the Verumontanum and follicles of the canal of the urethra is often associated with diseases of the prostate gland; and sometimes they become excited to irritation by the improper use of injections in gonorrhoea, and the too frequent introduction of bougies ill adapted to the diameter of the passage ; by retaining the urine too long in the bladder; and by the irritation caused by haBmorrhoidal tumors, prolapsus ani, and not unfrequently by debauchery. These are among the most frequent causes which induce affections of the seminal vessels, though their symptoms are often equivocal, and not easy to discriminate from incipient affections of calculi, and diseases of the neighbouring organs, D26 They assumt^ different degrees of excitement ac- cording to the age and temperament of the patient; sometimes inciting wavering pain along the pos- terior portion of the urethra as far as the neck of the bladder, and inducing nervous and spasmodic con- tractions of the sphincter vesica; hence a degree of sympathetic uneasiness, attended with unavail- ing endeavours to micturate; aggravated by the combined action of the abdominal muscles and bladder rendering the disease still more distressing to the patient. Such derangement of the functions of the cjacu- latory ducts occasionally tends to the formation of Carunculi^ and materially opposes the passing of any instrument by the urethra with safety during a state of high inflammation and in-itation ; and in some cases where the catheter has been used, no water could be found in the bladder, and yet the propensity has still remained. In other in- stances the bladder has been distended with urine and the patient unable to void its contents, owing to the sphincter muscles, which surround the neck of the bladder and posterior part of the urethra, not acting in consent with those of the diaphragm and abdomen. For unless the expulsive and retentive powers which govern this agency, har- monize with, each other, the voluntary evacuation of the urine is wholly prevented, though the pro- pensity exists in a painful degree.27 ■ .An undue degree of irritation excited in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder, particularly in nervous and irritable constitutions, will fre- quently give rise to remote sympathetic sensa- tions of other parts, and excite a disposition to pass the urine more frequently; thongh these sensations, when attentively contrasted with those of calculi in the bladder or permanent re- tention of urine, possess little affinity with them; being more immediately connected with piles, schirrns of the rectum, worms in the lower intes- tines, hypocondria and mental illusion. The use of the bongie or catheter is generally inadequate in such cases though frequently used. The re- sources of the surgeon will be most availing when directed to abate the undue excitement by a strict attention to the state of the bowels, together with the warm bath, antiphlogistic and antispasmodic remedies both general and local, aided by a mucilaginous beverage, to which may be added a portion pf Potassce nitratis. When these morbid excitements continue for a long time, and have been aggravated by constitutional causes or the too frequent introduction of instruments up the urethra, or the improper use of internal irritating, diuretic medicines, an indurated state of the pros- tate gland or one of its lobes may ensue, and obstruct the discharge of urine ; thus ultimately defeating every effort of the surgeon by the in-28 flanmiation extending- in an insidious manner over the internal surface of the bladder, and terminating either in an abscess or gangrene. In these cases, on dissection after the patient's death, one or both kidneys will be found to have participated with the disease, and the infundihula will in general Exhibit a deposit of bloody exudation. In these irritable and sympathetic affections of the urethra and seminal ducts, when associated with inflammation and pain of the urinary organs, such remedies as blisters applied to the loins, leeches to the perineum, warm bath, cooling lotions, and anodyne fomentations have occa- sionally afforded relief. In addition to these, small doses of Emetic tartar, Tinet digitali or TinctJerri muriati may be given till nausea is produced. Bathing the penis aiid scrotum in cold water; or throwing cold water on the region of the abdomen ; sometimes a brisk cathartic succeeded by the injection of 120 drops of Tinct opii in about four ounces of cold water up the rectum, or injecting into the bladder a solution of opium in tepid water; or a watery solution of opium injected up the urethra, and retained therein by means of the fingers ap- plied externally on the penis for a given time may be adopted. Mercury is sometimes useful when there is reason to suspect an indurated state of the prostate gland, by changing the action of the29 system, particularly when joined with opium and cicuta. The introduction of solid opium and cicuta up the rectum to the extent of two inches, in the form of suppositories, is also serviceable in these cases, when the patient labours uncley j^-eat pain and distress of mind. A scrofulous diathesis is sometimes known to lurk in the system, and to be the exciting cause of an indolent induration of the prostate gland, as well as other morbid affections of the seminal ducts and canal of the urethra; in which case relief may be obtained by the use of hark, cicuta, sarsaparilla, Tinct Jerri muriati, and sea bathing. I have known issues applied in the vicinity of the perineum, afford great relief. These means, with a suitable regimen, and gentle exercise in the open air, together with attention to the state of the bowels and digestive organs, and appeasing the agitation of the patient's mind, form the chief basis of treatment in this species of disease, connected with the urinary organs.30 ON THE SYMPTOMS OF STONE IN THE BLADDER, AND METHOD OF SOUNDING. Notwithstanding the elaborate researches of modern authors, the proximate cause of the pro- duction of urinary calculi appears still involved in some degree of obscurity; and different opinions are assigned on this important subject. Among Avhich may be enumerated, a peculiar structure or action of the excretory vessels of the kidneys,* and particles of blood, or inspissated matter de- posited in the infundibula, by which, on their passing along the preters into the bladder, through affinity with urine, a nucleus is formed in one,.qr, other of these receptacles, too. large to, be evacu- ated by the urethra. Or they mayj)t>A; produced by some peculiarity of constitution, or morbid condition of the part in which such depositions are formed. Few diseases,,,:tj|. which the human body is liable, are more distressing to the patient, or more dangerous in their tendency, than those of the urinary organs; and when accompanied with stone in the bladder, the pain and irritation , excited thereby, present one of the most deplo- rable maladies to which the system is subject. * This was the opinion of Platner.31 The concealed situation of these parts, parti- cularly when combined with calculous aflections, the ambiguity of the symptoms, the associated action of the muscles of the pelvis, and the varying nature of the diseases connected with them, evidently shew the insidious progress and extent of such morbid phenomena; at the same time these causes account for the obscurity which marks the symptoms, and so often retards our efforts in determining the true mode of treat- ment. Though most surgical authors have enumerated various symptoms as unequivocal indications of the existence of stone in the bladder, yet the proofs which usually characterize the disease, are so extremely complex, that in this peculiar de- partment there is great difficulty in discriminating between the sympathetic affections of the bladder, and the genuine source of the disease. The operation of sounding the bladder for the purpose of discovering a stone, is in general so slightly noticed by surgical writers, that we might suppose it not of much importance ; but as we never can be certain whether there is or is not a stone, without the introduction of some instru- ment for this purpose, it is presumed no apology is necessary for these remarks ; more particularly when it is evident that such research cautiously made, frequently leads to the discovery of other32 affections which accompany this distressing malady. To acquire an accurate diagnosis of the pre- sence of stone in the bladder, it is proper to question the patient respecting the primary symp- toms ; whether they originated in the kidneys, or in the bladder ; whether small calculi, or sabulous depositions have been observed in the urine ; and whether there be any cause to suspect an here- ditary diathesis. The symptoms usually accompanying stone in the bladder are gradually developed, and may be included in the following statement, A sense of weight and uneasiness felt about the neck of the bladder, and pressure at the rectum, particularly when the patient moves about. An irresistible propensity to a frequent expul- sion of the urine, although the bladder may have been emptied not long before; especially when in an erect position, along with a smarting, burning, or pricking sensation at the extremity of the penis, which causes the patient to walk in a creeping straddling manner, with an almost in- cessant desire to go to stool. The urine in the incipient stage is almost always clear; but as the disease advances it becomes turbid, caused by repeated attacks of inflammation, which produce ulceration, and a secretion of coagulable lymph from the inner surface of the bladder. Eventually33 puss is perceived to be blended with the uritiCi and streaks of blood more or less, as the surface of the calculus is rough or smooth : and during ■the progress of the disease, the desire to pass ijrine becomes more and more frequent, till' at length the bladder loses its usual power of dis- tension, hectic fever ensues, and the patieiit Siii'ks under the disease unless the stone be removed'; ' Great pain at the glans penis on ejecting the iW^t drop of urine, connected at other times with tenesmus, more particularly in young persons ; an intolerable itching irritation about the external orifice of the urethra, attended with frequent in- voluntary erections of the penis, which part the patient is induced to nip with his fingers to relieve the paroxysms, while the prepuce becomes elon- gated-, arrd sometimes nearly closed,—are also among the symptoms of this disease. In some instances the sufferer is free from pain for a certain time, and a considerable quantity of urine will be collected in the bladder, which, on evacuation, plena rivo is Suddenly stopped; but on the patient varying the po^itimi of his body, the calculus recedes fi-om the neck of the bladder, and the urine flo'Ws again freely as before. In the advanced stage of the disease the urine deposits a sabulous aind turbid sediment, with an offensive smell. Oil some occasions the abdo-^ min'al muscles become affected with spasm, and E34 the patient is seized with fits of shivering, accom- panied with a discharge of mucus along with the urine, which indicates inflammation of the coafts of the bladder: under these circumstances the operation is inadmissible. Difficulty of retaining the urine, with dribbling resembling stillicidium nrince, and at intervals urgent efforts to expel the contents of the bladder, caused either by a change in the situation of the stone, position of the body of the patient, or the coats of the bladder being no longer protected by the intervention of the urine; during these efforts the difficulty becomes greater, and the pain aggravated. HcBmorrhoids in the decline of life, and prohj)- sus ani in children, are frequent attendants on the disease, together with occasional retraction and atrophy of the testicles. When small calculi become lodged in the ducts of the prostate gland, there is usually some diffi- culty in voiding the urine, attended with pain about the neck of the bladder, and a sense of uneasiness at the glans penis, not very dissimilar to that produced by a stone in the cavity of the bladder; in which case, the surgeon should aid the researches of the sound, by passing the finger up the rectum, in order to acqviire a more correct diagnostic of the nature of the case. The pathological symptoms above enumerated.35 especially when oGcurring in the same individual, leave little doubt of the existence of stone in the bladder; though they are not altogether to be con- sidered as infallible proofs of the disease, to war- rant an operation without the aid of the sound. AVe occasionally meet with cases where the patient has been known to have had a stone in the bladder for years, without suffering any material inconvenience. In other instances the patient has endured the ordinary symptoms attendant on the disease for a long time, and on inspecting the bladder after death, the grievance has been discovered to have proceeded from an enlarged prostate gland, which has excited symptoms greatly resembling calfcu- lous affections, and communicated through the medium of the sound, a sensation somewhat re- sembling stone. An indurated and enlarged state of the prostate gland, usually excites frequent efforts in the bladder to overcome the resistance which reiterated action invariably produces. Hence thickening of it's muscular coats, which sometimes embarrasses the surgeon when sound- ins; this viscus. These indications may unwarily mislead the surgeon, but their equivocal nature will, it is presumed, guard him against inadvertently de^ ciding on the case, without first having recourse to the assistance of the sound. The prostate36 gland, in its natural state, is about the size of a horse chesnut in an adult; and when affected by schirrous disease, it is sometimes augmented to the bulk of a large apple, of a firm compact structure, exhibiting internally various membra- nous septae. This enlarged morbid state of the lobes, so completely blocks up the opening into the bladder as to obstruct the flow of urine and interrupt the introduction of the catheter." In this precarious 3tate, an artificial passage has on some occasions been hazarded with temporary relief to the patient, by pushing the instrument directly through the substance of the gland at a venture into the bladder, and evacuating its contents; a project I have never had occasion to adopt, nor do I think it justifiable while other less hazardous means are at hand. The instrument usually employed for the pur- pose of exploring the cavity of the bladder, is a piece of rounded solid poHshed steel, curved and modelled to the form of the urethra, denominated a Sound; and the mode of its introduction into the bladder is similar to that of the catheter, the chief use of which is to convey a sensation of the percussions made on the stone to the fingers of the surgeon. Though some practitioners give a preference to a hollow sound, formed of silver-or elastic gnm.37 yel I am induced to believe that a solid one of steel will produce a more distinct and characteris- tic sensation to the touch, than one of silver or any other ductile substance; as the undulations of the urine, when issuing through the eyes of the instrument, may impose on the sensation of the surgeon, and embarrass his judgment. - After the many different attempts made by modern surgeons in the construction of instru- ments employed in Lithotomy, the thickness of the sound, more than any other circumstance, seems to have escaped their attention. With the view of obviating certain difficulties, which frequently occur when searching for the stone in the bladder, I am induced to make a few observations on the use and construction of the sound, as represented in the annexed plate ;^ >i>'/• ] which instrument I have been in the habit of using for several years past, and which is now pre- fierred by many surgeons of this county. This instrument will be found to pass along the canal of the urethra, and be moved when in the cavity of the bladder, with greater facility by the sur- geon, and ease to the patient, than those modelled in the ordinary way. Consequently, when there exist much disease and irritation of the parts, the calculus is more readily discovered, and be- comes more tangible, than by one constructed in the ordinary way.38 The whole canal of the urethra, even when exempt from disease, appears to possess a degree of contractile power, which prevents the invo- luntary issuing of the urine, and also slightly im- pedes the advancement of any instrument up the passage. In these circumstances, when the pros- tate gland is diseased, and inflammation has spread over the whole member of the urethra, whether produced by stone or other morbid affec- tions, the patient experiences a more than usual desire to micturate; and thus the reiterated exci- tation of the sphincter muscles of the perineum, and adjacent parts, presents an obvious barrier to the introduction either of the sound, staff, cathe- ter, or bougie. The urethra being designed for conveying the urine from the bladder, is surrounded by a vas- cular cellular texture, named Corpus Spongiosum, and lined internally with an exceedingly delicate rugose membrane, endowed wdth great sensibility and some elasticity. The posterior, or prostatic portion of the urethra and neck of the bladder, is also encircled by a particular fasciculus of muscular fibrers, and is subject to great sympa- thetic irritation and contraction. This is exem- plified by a* variety of instances, both in health and disease; for in the latter case, when the ' urethra is in a; state of inflammation or irritation, on attempting to pass a common sound, or bougie39 aloiiff tliis sensible membrane, the extent of sur- face on which it acts, unavoidably excites the connecting muscles into inordinate action, which the will of the patient is unable to control. By the same law of excitement in any part of the system, inflammation, swelling-, and distention are produced. Thus it is easy to explain how inflammation of the mucous coat of the urethra tends to diminish the diameter of the canal, and cause retention of urine. The levator ani ; compressor prostatas and accelerator urincB, so effectually embrace the canal of the urethra, that when this sensible internal membrane is influenced by the undue action of these muscles, and is either irritated by the passing of an instrument, or from any other cause, the diameter of the urethra is proportion- ably diminished. The canal of the urethra presents different degrees of diameter at several points in its healthy state, and its" lining also possesses great vascu- larity and sensibility of texture ; but the irritation of this delicate membrane, is in some degree mitigated by the bland mucus excreted from the follicles of the different glands of the urethra, which lubricates the passage, defends it from the acrimony of the urine, and considerably facilitates the introduction of any instrument along the passage*40 Sir Everard Home has published ineasureinents, taken from casts, of the widths of the canal of t'he urethra, at different parts; but from the obser- vations 1 have been able to make, there is reason to believe that he has much overrated its diame- ters throughout when appHed to the living subject iu its natural state. When affected with inflam- mation the canal becomes manifestly diminished; and a bougie, or catheter of the ordinary size and construction, if passed far into the urethra, will have a greater friction upon its sides than one of a less diameter with a small bulb, the chief re- sistance to which is almost wholly confined to that part. On gauging the caliber of the pros- tatic portion of the urethra in the adult subject, I find the average diameter to be from four to five lines; and as the structure of this part of the urethra is less capable of distention than the othei-, it is obvious that the diameter of the catheter should be proportioned to it. The pain so frequently excited, and the per- plexity attending the introduction of any foi m of instrument into the bladder, when the patient is tortured with calculus, have been noticed by most practitioners who are versed in this branch of surgery; and it is a matter worthy of attention, and which thejunior practitioner should invariably bear in mind, that there is a considerable differ- ence between passing the sountf on the dead and41 on the living subject, and therefore any inference drawn from the former to the latter operation must be inaccurate. The muscles subservient to the organs of urine, in the defunct state, have wholly lost their tone and po^er of contraction; and consequently oppose comparatively little re- sistance to the instrument in the passage. I would not have it supposed from these re- marks, that I by any means wish to discourage the anatomical student from exercising his talent on the dead subject, and I earnestly entreat him, to avail himself of every suitable opportunity of acquiring practical dexterity in this operation, but still to bear in mind the existing difference above alluded to; for the well regulated use of the sound, OT catheter, as exercised by the sur- geon, seeins to require something more of dex- terous movement, to enable the operator to aic- complish his purpose with* ease and propriety, than any other surgical operation. These ac- quirements, which result only from anatomical skill and practice, will greatly assist the surgeon in the mode of treatment, and plan of operating in the diseases incident to the peltic cavity: nor, without these essential requisites can h^'Compre- hend the reason of the difficulty in the introduction either of the catheter or sound, or know the causie of his inability to discover the stone, iri compli- cated cases. ^lii-'^/^S F42 In some instances of retention of urine, which have fallen under my notice, connected with morbid affection of the neck of the bladder, and prostate gland, the patient has suffered by the violent and ill directed efforts of the surgeon, occasioned by a negligent deviation in the position of the patient during the operation, or by rash and improper guidance of the instrument. The certainty of accomplishing this operation without embarrassment, arises from bearing in mind the relative curvature of the instrument, and canal of the urethra, as its point traverses along from the glans penis, to the entrance of the bladder. The obstacles and perplexity connected with the treatment of the diseases of these organs, are often so peculiarly complicated, that it requires the greatest caution in the surgeon, to pass an instrument into the bladder without inflictins: injury to the patient. Hence the catheter, staff', or sound, bear such affinity of construction and method of introduction to each other, that I wish these remarks to be considered as equally ap- plicable to each respectively, unless otherwise specified. To accomplish this delicate and sometimes difficult operation with ease and facility, the sur- geon should be furnished with a variety of sounds of different degrees of curvature, length, and diameter, adapted to all ages.43 It is obvious, that whatever instrument be em- ployed, it should be proportioned to the size of the patient, and diameter of the urethra. With regard to the convexity of such instrument, every surgeon will perhaps find it most convenient to be governed by his own ideas and experience, as a dexterous operator will seldom fail of effecting his purpose whatever degree of curvature it may possess. A calculus, by its own weight, may be lodged near the cervix of the bladder, immediately be- hind the prostate gland, in which case a sound with a less curve than ordinary will more readily come in contact with the stone, and if it be lodged near the fundus, or in its anterior part, one more bent will generally detect the stone sooner. An indurated and enlarged prostate gland, pro- duces symptoms occasionally much like those of stone in the bladder. There is, however, usually this difference, that riding in a carriage, qy on horseback, does not increase the grievance when the prostate alone is affected, but it does so in a great degree, producing bloody urine and par- oxysms of pain, when accompanied with a stone in the bladder. Were the parts concerned in lithotomy always free from disease, and of equal dimensions in every subject, the operation would be more certain of success, and be determined on mathematical44 |)iinciples; but this can scarcely be expected when the disease is of long standing ; and as no two cases are in every respect exactly similar, it is indispensably requisite that the surgeon be fully acquainted with the anatomy and functions of the parts connected with the operation. The following paragraphs, extracted from the works of two distinguished surgeons, may not be thought inapplicable on the subject of intro- ducing the catheter into the bladder. " The ca- theter, in the hands of a surgeon, like the pencil in the hand of a painter, requires frequent use, and much practice to manage with facility and success. Rules may be laid down for the form- ing a rough outline, but those more delicate movements, wdiich in many instances, are neces- sary to ensiu'e success, can no more be described, than a painter can describe those finer touches of his pencil, which are necessary to the perfecting of some finished performance."* " The elaborate descriptions given by some authors of the mode of passing the catheter, the allusions to the required delicacy of the hand, the great attention to the sweep of the passage, the tour de maitre, as it has been absurdly called, and the precise point where the handle of the catheter is to be depressed, that the other extre- * Weldou on Puncturing the Bladder, pagelTlr45 niity may be elevated, are certainly useful to the student who has previously dissected; bat to those who have not dissected, or seen dissection, these particular directions avail but little; they may produce a feeling in the mind of the reader, of the superior talents of the author who can describe the mode of so easily shunning difficul- ties in introducing the catheter, but they will con- vey very little real practical information to those who have not attended to the dissection of the parts themselves. " This attention alone will teach him how to inti'oduce the catheter safely, and to shun any error arising from misconception, into which reading, without dissecting, might possibly lead him. " What man should dare to call himself a sur- geon who has not carefully attended to this sub- ject? Let such person consider, should his patient, labouring under retention of urine, die, he not being able to pass the catheter, and ig- norant of whence the difficulty arises, that such death must for ever lie heavy at his door; and that not only the death of the individual is pro- duced by his ignorance, but also the miseries which may be entailed, perhaps, on a numerous family, left by such death in indigence; and by hira, the person in whom their confidence was placed, but which he had abused by undertaking46 the case, although conscious that he was not equal to its proper management."* I will briefly state the method I usually adopt when performing this operation on the male sub- ject, which may be done in three different posi- tions of the body, either when standing, sitting, or lying. Thus placing myself before the patient when in the first position, so as to have full com- mand of the instrument, which is to be adapted to the size of the urethra, and previously warmed and besmeared all over, except the handle, with oil, I take a gentle hold of the corona glandis between the thumb and two fore fingers of the left hand, raising the penis a little upwards ; and with the handle held in the right hand, between the index and fore finger, I then insinuate its point into the aperture of the urethra, with the convex part towards the patient, pressing it stea- dily onwards till it meets with some resistance in perinea, from the curvature of the passage that corresponds to the arch of the pubis. Keep- ing the point fixed in this position, as the centre of motion, and the penis at the same time raised on the instrument, I then, with the same hand, make a semi-circular turn upwards, over the left groin of the patient, which brings the hand pa- rallel with the navel, and at the same time inclin- * Wilson on the Urinary and Genital Organs, page 808 and 309.47 ing the handle of the catheter forwards horizon- tally, by one continued and uninterrupted SMeej) of the hand, I depress the handle, by which its point will naturally, with a little force, ascend under the angle of the symphysis pubis, and enter the cavity of the bladder. If the surgeon be not practically versed in this mode of introducing the catheter, which the French surgeons call " tour de maitre^'' he may, without this manoeuvre, pass it by, introducing it in the first stage of the operation, with the con- cave part directed towards the patient. On attempting to introduce the common formed sound into the bladder, I have frequently per- ceived the instrument so firmly embraced and arrested in its progress by the action of the muscles of the urethra, and neighbouring parts, that it was scarcely moveable without the whole body of the penis co-operating with the motion exerted by the hand, in attempting to ascertain the presence of the stone. In some instances, where the natural action of the muscles appendant to the bladder is inter- rupted by irritation or spasm, and the point of the common sound has traversed to the anterior part of the prostate gland, its whole surface be- comes firmly compressed, and permanently fixed, which wholly impedes its complete introduction into the bladder without manifestly incurring great.48 danger; whilst, on the other hand, a sound con- structed similar to that represented in the annexed plate, with a small bulbous point, adapted to the natural diameter of the urethra, and that part of the instrument from the bulb to the handle, ipuph reduced below the ordinary size, will ma- afetly distend the urethra as it passes along its course, with comparatively little friction, much more ease and safety to the patient, as well as freedom to the surgeon; and on having entered the bladder it can be moved in any direction, with- out exciting undue irritation, or being embraced and obstructed by the action of the urethra and itSi coajutant muscles. Consequently the stone is more readily found by this instrument, than one of an equal diameter throughout. There are two methods of treating calculous affections of the bladder described by authors. One is radical, by the surgical extraction of the stone ; this is the operation of Lithotomy. The other is palliative, by administering lithontriptic medicines in different ways, with a view of dis- solving it in the bladder. Notwithstanding the attention of the faculty to the method of chemical counteraction, it is but too true, that hitherto aill attempts have proved ineffectual. Though the dissolution of calculi in the urinary bladder has been attempted long ago by means of medicines internally, as well as by49 ihjecting solvent fluids into the bladder by the aid of instruments constructed for the purpose, expe- rience has proved that the component parts of in-inary calculi consist of very different substances in certain peculiarities of constitution ; and conse- quently it is not easy to discover a solvent which might be applicable in all cases. What might sometimes succeed, might at other times be in- jurious ; and though we are in possession of che- mical liquids that will readily dissolve calculi when out of the bladder, yet the same menstruum when injected into the cavity of this viscus, would produce intolerable pain and inflammation. The internal coats of this organ are so irritable, that scarcely any other fluid than what it is des- tined by nature to retain (except such as are of a mild nature) can be used, without producing pain or being instantly rejected. Though we cannot expect either to cure diseases of the bladder, or completely dissolve calculi* when once formed, by these means^ yet I have frequently had re- course to the use of the vesicae lotura with ap- parent benefit. The injections I have most ge- nerally used are oil, warm ivater, solutions of opium, or belladonna in water and diluted muria- tic acid, with or without the addition of mucilage. If a stone be once formed in the bladder of a * On this subject, see Sir Everard Home, Jesse FoQt, and Butter. G50 magnitude too great to be expelled naturally, it is highly probable that the present art of medicine is inadequate to effect a dissolution of its parts, without inflicting injury on the coats of the blad- der: though in some instances of constitutional peculiarity in the chemical composition of calculi, I am inclined to believe that certain solvents, •when taken internally or injected into the bladder, have so far counteracted the tendency to the for- mation of stone, as to prevent its further growth for a time; and have produced a change in the bladder or secretion of urine which has appeased the pain and irritation excited by the disease. On other Occasions when certain lithontriptic fluids have been injected into the bladder, the pain excited and the injury inflicted on that organ, have been so great as to deter modern surgeons from attempting to dissolve urinary calculi by this process. Still it is to be regretted, that we are yet ig- norant of a specific chemical agent adequate to dissolve a stone in the living bladder when too large to pass naturally by the urethra; and till this arcanum has been discovered, lithotomy will ever remain an indispensable expedient. It would be foreign to my present design, to enumerate the various preposterous medicines which have at different periods been administered to abate the distressing symptoms of this disease,51 or to decompose the calculi in the bladder; it is sufficient to observe, that the hazard attending the use of lithontriptics, if not cautiously ap- plied, may prove injurious to the bladder, as has actually been the case in numerous instances. Not only has the patients health suffered irreparable injury, but the advantages that would have been derivable from lithotomy, have been prevented. This was verified in the instances of Lord Walpole and the Earl of Oxford, as well as on many other occasions. The difficulty and danger attendant on lithoto- my have been pointed out by most surgical writers, and from the earliest records of medicine, of which we have any account of this malady transmitted for our instruction, we are led to believe that the operation was principally confined to a select class of men who made it their peculiar business. This is confirmed by the solemn oath of Hippo- crates, and to which Horace alludes, " Quod medicorum est Promittunt medici, tractant fabiilia fabii." Among other interesting facts preserved by this venerable author, the following abjuration will shew the limited practice of lithotomy in his time, and the medical honesty of this father of the healing art. " I swear (says he) by Apollo the Physician, by Esculapius, by his daughter Hygeia, Panacea,52 and by all the gods and goddesses of the heathen mythology, that cutting for the stone I will not meddle with, but leave it to the operators in that way." Hence it \b probable, that lithotomy at that early period was interdicted to all except empirics, who in all likelihood kept their mode of operating a secret, while the regular physicians made it no part of their studies. Among the ancients, and even in the time of the great Boer- haave, it was considered a very dangerous opera- tion; for he asserts, that the event is always doubtful by reason of some things happening which no sagacity could foresee, nor art remove. See Aphorism, 1437. And the experienced Heister says, that if the structure of the bladder, and its true disposition, with regard to the adjacent parts be not first well known, and the surgeon be not well versed in encheii esis, or necessary artifices to be used for cutting, and extracting the stone, it is very possible that the patient may, through such defect, lose his life in the operation. It will be allowed that no individual operation in surgery has attracted so much notice as that of lithotomy; and to enter into a detail of the opinions and modes of operating as described by every writer on the subject, would necessarily lead me beyond the limits prescribed to these pages. I purpose merely to present the reader with a short Jiistorical account of the chief methods of ex-53 ti-acting the stone from the bladder, adopted by lithotomists at different periods and in successive order, interspersed with incidental remarks. Tiie perceptible and satisfactory proofs of a stone in the bladder are to be attained by the in- troduction of the sound; and every experienced lithotomist will acknowledge the embarrassment which sometimes occurs in this operation, when interrupted either by a morbid thickening of the coats of the bladder, an indurated prostrate gland or small particles of sand lodged in the passage. In these diseased affections, a sensation is some- times conveyed to the surgeon when sounding, not very dissimilar to that imparted by a stone, in consequence of which many palpable errors have been committed by a too precipitate decision. " Prior to sounding the bladder, it is usual to require that the urine be restrained in order to distend its coats, so that the instrument may more readily explore the cavity and come in contact with the stone. r The sound being introduced in the manner before directed, the surgeon should hold the handle gently between the thumb and fore finger of the right hand; by moving the instrument quickly, but without much force, in every possible direction, and over every point of surface : whilst the urine is evacuating, and before the bladder gets contracted, he will generally be able to detect54 the stone by the percussion of the two bodies coming in contact; and a slight shock or clank is communicated to the surgeon which can scarce- ly be mistaken. Some surgeons prefer a hollow sound, suppos- ing the escape of the in-ine through the tube will bring the stone more immediately in contact with its point; but if the bladder be empty, which is frequent- ly the case during the process of sounding, the object in view is wholly defeated. Nevertheless the improved sound, as before recommended, possesses all the advantages of a hollow instrument, being nUich smaller in diameter than the canal of the iirethra from the anterior part of its bulb to the handle; and if the bladder be distended with urine, it will generally pass off gradually by the side of the sound in a way which will afford the surgeon time to explore the cavity of the organ more advantageously, than by a hollow one through which the urine escapes more rapidly. If, on the introduction of the sound, the point should be interrupted in the passage by any of the furrows or lacunce of the urethra, the surgeon should wholly (and not in part as is usually di- rected) withdraw the instrument and make a second effort, lest its point be inadvertently forced through the side of the urethra and a false passage be made ; to avoid which the fore finger may be introduced into the anus to raise or guide the pointof the, sound through the prostatic sinus, and over the ridge formed by the neck of the bladder: and by gently depressing the handle as it advances the apex will be elevated, by which manceuvre the difficulty will be overcome and the point gain admission into the bladder. Then the surgeon with the finger in ano may avail himself of the opportunity of ascertaining the size and position of the stone, the condition of the prostate gland and coats of the bladder, which enquiry should by no means be neglected. No definite rules can be laid down, how the surgeon should on all occasions manage the sound when in the bladder to ascertain the presence of a stone; nor are we warranted in announcmg the non-existence of calculi, merely because we fail in our first or second trial; as the detection of the stone will in some cases at one time frustrate the most expert and diligent researches, while at another it will be discovered with ease. Many instances may be found among surgical authors, of people having had stones in their bladder for many years without experiencing the usual symp- toms or inconveniency. See Sonetus's Sepulchre. Anatom. Lib. 3. sect. 24. obs. 9. and Skenk. de ves. urinaria, obs, 269. Parag. 6. - ,ri. .i!; nii The calculus may be small, situated in a cyst, or be entangled in the folds of the bladder when56 in a collapsed state, in which case recourse may be had to the warm bath, and injecting tepid water into this viscus to distend its cavity, so that the sound may be moved with greater freedom by directing the point first to one side, and then to the other, then alternately depressing and elevat- ing the handle, then withdrawing it a little and pressing its apex forwards to the fundus of the bladder. Thus it maybe moved in all directions, and at the same time with sudden and repeated jerks to strike the stone, but not such as either to inflict pain or do injury to the bladder. Prior to sounding this viscus the surgeon should inform himself of its shape, size, structure and connection with the relative situation and alteration of its bulk from a state of repletion to collapsion, and likewise the extent of expansion of the peritoneum, as a wound of this membrane would permit the urine to pass into the abdominal cavity and expose the sufferer to great danger. When the bladder is fully distended, it raises the peritoneum along with it, till a space of nearly four inches is left free of that membrane above the pubes; it is in this space where the opening into the bladder is made in the high operation^ without penetrating into the cavity of the abdomen. I ara apprehensive the bladder is too generally described by authors as of a pyramidal form, resembling that of the57 lower animals. If this were the true figure of this receptacle, when in a state of distention, a line drawn through its longest axis would pass from the fundus to its neck;* whereas, if a line be drawn through the longest axis it will pass from the fimdus a considerable way below the neck and. behind its connection with the prostate gland. Though the male bladder does not invariably exhibit the same oviform shape in every subject, yet this depression or bulging of the cervix is always more or less observable on each side of the.rectum, and should be kept in view by the surgeon when employed in sounding the bladder or performing the operation of lithotomy; as calculi frequently lodge in this depending part of tb^^,.viscus, and if disregarded, may elude the re.searches of the surgeon^ To obviate the difficulty arising from the figure of the cervical portion of the bladder, when the stone is supposed to be- lodged below that part, the patient should be placed in a supine posture, and the surgeon with the finger in cinq may rj^Lise the stone till it comes in contact witl^i .f^p .^t^^^ gj-Ci|,i4^(^^it^^,^f. .^^^^^^^^ slightly curved. ^.^^ On other, occaf^i^ops, w|\e,re^ the^stqpe i^^ difficult * The term neck of the bladder may appear rather vague, as its cavity, when distended, begins as aoon as the urethra termif nates in the prostate gjand. H58 to detect, 1 have advantageously distended the rectum by injecting warm water to elevate the posterior part of the bladder, and bring the stone more nnmediately in union with the sound. By these steps the surgeon will generally be able to discover the stone, or otherwise form a more correct idea of the cause and nature of the disease. When a surgeon is called upon to perform the operation for the stone, without having previously seen the patient, he should make himself fully satisfied by passing the sound and actually feel- ing the stone himself, before he proceeds in the operation : for though the calculus may have been discovered by another practitioner, even the day before, yet this is insufficient to justify an operation. It has long been an established rule of practice, never to operate unless the stone could be dis- tinctly felt by the surgeon at the precise time of operating, and the propriety of this valuable maxim has no doubt advantageously influenced the conduct of surgeons on many occasions. This has been manifested in some instances where the stone has been evidently struck with the sound on a first trial, and has eluded every possible research on a subsequent attempt; and after the patient's death, the calculus has been found pro- truded through ihe/asciculi of the muscular fibres59 of the bladder, and lodged in a sack or pouch formed by the coats of that organ.* Hence arises the danger of precipitation under these peculiar circumstances of concealed diseased structure, as the operation of lithotomy would in these circumstances, only tend to hasten the patient's death. When the surgeon is employed in sounding the bladder in cases where the discovery of the stone is difficult; he should place the patient in different positions, and use every possible means with great diligence to reach the stone at the first attempt; as there is often a degree of reluctancy in the patient submitting to a second examination. When sounding a patient for the stone under some indurated conditions of the bladder, the surgeon should not only make very accurate search, but be scrupulously cautious in deciding on the presence of a stone in this viscus, lest the * Sometimes the surgeon when passing the catheter or sound may encounter a calculus in the posterior part of the urethra ; in which case he should not attempt to push it back iuto the bladder, but whilst the instrument is in the passage, he may pass the fore finger up the rectum, and by pressure on the prostatic and membranous parts of the urethra endeavour to press it forwards; then by placing the finger on the perineum behind the stone as the catheter is withdrawn, the calculus will follow. If these expedients fail, an incision may be made on the stone, and it may be extracted through the opening.60 operation be attempted unnecessarily. We are informed that Gheselden, the celebrated litho- tomist, actually operated on three patients none of whom had a stone in their bladders at the time. The eminent French surgeon Le Peyronie operated in similar circumstances. See also a fatal case of a patient cut for the stone where none existed, in Desaulfs Parisian ChirurgicalJournal. There are certain diseased affections and pecu- liarities of the system which render lithotomy either unfavourable for a certain time, or wholly improper, though we are fully assured of a stone in the bladder. Children under two years old are irritable and subject to inflammation, fever and convulsions; in such cases I generally use the warm bath both before and soon after the operation. The middle period of life pre-disposes to inflam- mation, and requires bleeding and purging in robust habits prior to the operation. Advanced age in itself forms no objection to the operation, if in other respects healthy. Corpulent persons, or those of a plethoric habit, are not favourable subjects for the operation, being liable to great constitutional irritation: such patients require free depletion before, as well as after the operation. If the patient be afflicted with organic affection of the liver, lungs, kidheys, or any other viscera,61 every possible means should be employed to cure the disease before the operation is attempted. Asthmatic affections ahiiost always forbid the use of the operation. It is seldom advisable to proceed to the opera- tion, whilst the patient labours mider symptoms of fever, a quick vibrating pulse, arid tongue, or much constitutional irritation. Persons afflicted with violent nephritic pains are not eligible subjects for the operation, as small calculi may be in the act of passing by the ureters into the bladder; in which case the purpose of the operation would be defeated and the pre-disposi- tion to the disease would still exist in the system. The operation is always improper during the severe paroxysms of stone, and should seldom or ever be undertaken till the violence of the fit and irritation produced subsides, and tranquillity has been some time restored to the system ; though in some cases a low continued state of irritation, when exempt from much fever and visceral affec- tion, may not wholly debar the operation; in which case it may be desirable to inject a solution of opium up the rectum at intervals, to mitigate the pain and irritation of the system. When the presence of a stone has been distinctly ascertained and the operation determined upon, in some cases the practice of sounding the patient at intervals may be advantageously pursued; by62 ^liich means the urethra and cervix vesiccB \\\\\ have become habituated to the action of the in- strument; and the irritation diminished, during which process, the surgeon may avail himself of the knowledge of the size of the stone and state of the parts connected with the operation. On some occasions where the patient's constitu- tion is not much impaired by long continuance of the disease, and there is little fever present, though afflicted with the disease for a series of years, and by the reiterated contractions of the bladder propelled against the surface of the stone, there may be eventually produced a degree of inliammation and thickening of the coats of the organ, accompanied with stillicidum uritKB; yet under these apparently unfavourable circumstances the patient will bear the operation with safety; but if the bladder be in a thickened and contracted state, accompanied with incessant pain and con- stant discharge of flaky mucus mixed with the urine, and the patient much debilitated, there is reason to suspect a scirrhous affection of the villous coat of the organ, which will manifestly preclude the propriety of attempting the operation. In most instances the patient requires a course of regimen, prior to the operation, if there exists a degree of plethora in the system. Bleeding, purging, and the warm bath, together with a vegetable diet may be requisite. Should the63 patient appear healthy and not plethoric, bleeding may be dispensed with, provided a few doses of purgative medicines, of the saline kind, be given occasionally for a few weeks before the operation. If, on the contrary, the patient be advanced in years, and greatly reduced by continued suffering, it may be proper to recommend a good nourishing- diet joined with rest, and if there is much pain he should be kept in a recumbent posture, with the pelvis raised so that the stone may m>t press on the neck of the bladder and cause irritation, or retention of urine. It is always proper, an hour or two before the operation, to administer an aperient enema to the patient to clear the rectum, lest its distention should expose it to injury. Let me, in this place, remind the lithotomist, that his chief aim ought primarily to be directed to the safety of the patient, whose constitution and habits should be minutely examined, and every symptom be well considered, before he resolve on one of the most important and eventful opera- tions in surgery, where even under the most promising circumstances there is always danger: and ultimately bear in mind, that the extraction of the stone is only one step towards effecting a cure, as the after treatment of the patient demands an equal share of attention from the surgeon as the former.64 ON THE OPERATION OF CELSUS, OR THE APPA- RATUS MINOR, USUALLY CALLED THE LESSER APPARATUS. OR CUTTING ON THE GRIPE. The Celsian method of operating for the stone is the most ancient species of lithotomy with which we are acquainted; and though we are greatly indebted to this author for the minute description he has given of it, it is generally believed that he was not the original inventor. Yet it appears to have been the chief mode of operating practised by the Greeks and Romans, during the space of sixteen centuries, and till the apparatus major became known. Various conjectures have however been ad- vanced by authors, respecting the exact method in which Celsus operated, but he describes it nearly as follows: " Since (says he) after the body being duly prepared the patient must walk about, that the stone may descend towards the neck of the bladder, which will be known by introducing the fingers after the manner I shall hereafter mention in describing the operation: when thus assured that the stone has fallen down, the boy being made to fast for one day, the opera- tion must be performed in a warm place as follows.A strong man accnstomed to the operation, being seated on a high chair, takes the boy in his arms, the boy's back inclining in a supine posture upon the assistant's breast, his hips resting upon the assistant's knees; his legs being then drawn up and his arms passed round his haras, the assistant takes hold of them and keeps the boy firm in this posture. But when the lad is grown up and strong, two men must sit on two chairs side by side, the chairs and the thighs of the assistants, where they touch each other, being tied fast together. When the boy is seated on their two knees thus joined, each takes hold of the arm and leg next him, holding by the hand of the boy and pulling back his hams ; and whether one or two assistants hold the boy, his shoulders must be steadily held down by leaning hard upon them with the breast. By this extension of the thighs, the region of the pelvis is spread out without folds or wrinkles, while the bladder is so corapressed' as to make it easy to reach the stone ; by the sides of those who immediately support the boy, there are placed two strong assistants, who steady them in their seats. Then the physician, havmg pared his finger nails, insinuates the fore and middle ones of the left hand gently, one after another, into the anus; spreading at the same the finger of the left hand omer the lower part of t\m iibdomen, to prevent the necessity of hooking his? I66 fingers too rudely round the stone, by which the bladder might be injured. And this must by no means be rashly done, as too frequently it is, but with all possible prudence, for a hurt of the blad- der in that way may cause convulsions and death: first of all, let the stone be sought for at the neck of the bladder, where, if it be discovered, it is more easily turned out through the wound; for unless the stone be thus distinctly perceived by its proper marks, the operation should not be attempt- ed. But if the stone be not either at the neck of the bladder, or have receded from it, the fingers must be pushed deeper towards the bottom of the bladder, and the right hand also be carried be- hind the stone, must help to work it forwards ; and when the stone is within the gripe it must be the more cautiously and carefully handled in propor- tion as it is small and smooth ; for a small and smooth stone is apt to slip back, and to occasion much handling and teasing of the bladder. For these reasons, the fingers of the right hand are pressed in behind the stone, while with the fingers of the left hand it is wrought downwards to the neck of the bladder. " If the stone be oblong, let it be presented,- lying along with one end turned towards the wound; if flat, with one edge towards the wound; if square, resting upon two of its angles; if bigger towards one end, let the smaller end be67 presented to the wound also. Whereas when the stone is round, there can, from the figure of the stone, be no difference in which position it is pre- sented ; but from its roughness there may; if in a rough stone there be one smooth part, let that part come foremost. Matters being thus prepared, the incision is to be made through the skin down to the neck of the bladder, of a lunated form, not tar from the anus, and with the horns of this lunated incision looking towards the hips. Then, in the deeper and narrower part of the wound, is to be made a second incision, also transverse, into the neck of the bladder itself, till the flowing out of the urine shews the incision to exceed in some degree the size of the stone. Those who, for fear of fistulas, (which the Greeks call Uriades,) make their incision too small, fall another way into the same, or greater danger; for the stone, being thrust strongly forwards into the wound, must force an opening where it does not find one sufiicientfor its exit, a thing especially dangerous when the stone is rough or of an unfavourable form, for thence arise sometimes haemorrhages, or convulsions of the nerves, which, although the patient may escape, yet the fistula must be much wider, when produced by laceration of the neck of the bladder, than by incision. The neck of the bladder being thus opened, the stone itself comes into view, which, if small, is to be got outm with the fingers alone, the fingers of the left hand pushing it forward from within, whilst the fingers of the right hand help to pick it out: but if it be larger, a hook, made on purpose, must be passed in behind it, the slender extremity of the hook should be flattened and bent into a semicircular form, smooth on its back part, where it presses against the parts, and rough within where it touches the stone; and it should be rather long, for a short hook has little power. " When the hook is fixed behind the stone, it must be moved from side to side, to work the stone forwards; for the stone, if it be fairly em- braced by the hook, moves along with it; whereas, if you merely press upon the stone without mov- ing it thus from side to side, it will slip, and escape again into the bladder, and the point of the hook will strike against the edges of the wound, the danger of which we have already explained. Having obtained a good hold of the stone, you are to perform, at one moment, three several motions, viz: from one side to the other and directly forwards, but all quickly; taking care first to draw the stone a Httle downwards. " Finally, the handle of the hook must be raised, that the lower end may pass deeper behind the stone, which may then be more easily extracted. The stone, if it be not easily catched from above, maybe removed by slipping in the hook at one side."69 Notwithstanding the antiquity gf this mode of operating, I am induced, on a careful attention to tlie different steps and stages of the apparatus minor, as described by Celsus, to believe it in no respect an uneligible operation, when confined to young subjects. The method is simple and less burthened with instruments than any other plan of operation by the lateral passage, and greatly resembles the mode adopted by Cheselden and Raw. The manner of cutting on the gripe has been much modified since the time of Celsus, for instead of making a lunated incision, lithotomists have cut directly on the stone, in a line approaching nearly to the method of the lateral operation, as prac- tised at the present day with much success, and without exception to the patient's age. See GroenevelVs Dissertatio Lithologica, and the de- scription of the operation given by Alhucasis. The valuable record which Celsus has left for our instruction, in every respect deserves our commendation and attention, both regarding the operation and after-treatment of the patient.* He * "Proximo die, si spiritus difficilius redditur, si urina non excedit, si locus circa pubeni mature intumuit, scire licet, in vesica sanguinern concrelum remansisse. Igiturj deraissis eodem modo digitis, leniter pertractanda vesica est, et discutienda, si qua coierunt: quo sit, ut per vulhus postea procedant. Non- alicnum etiam est, oriculario clystere acetutn nitro inixtum per- plagairi in vesicuin conipclleri, nam si quoque discutieutur, si qua crucuta coierunt."70 appears to be well aware of the dangers arising" froni a snfiall wound, and reconiniends the stone to be broken if too large, rather than attempt to extract it by lacerating the neck of the bladder.* From the history of the Apparatus Minor, given by Celsus, it is probable that much anterior to his time, this, or some other mode of operating not very dissimilar, was practised by the ancient em- pirics, and never became general among regular surgeons for many centuries subsecpient to the * The fi):st account we have on record, of breaking the stone in the bladder, when too large to be extracted entire by the wound, is mentioned by Celsus, which operation was invented by Amnionius, whence he obtained the appellation of Lithotomus, or the Stone-cutter. He practised lithotomy at ^Zexawrfna, during the time of Herophilus and Erasistratua; about 150 years subse- quent to the time of Hippocrates; and il/eg-ej likewise practised the Celsian operation at Rome, in the reign of Avgustus. We are indebted to Andreas de Cruce, for the invention of a pair of Forceps, for the purpose of breaking stones in the bladder; this instrument, we are told, failed of effecting this purpose, in the deplorable cases of the celebrated Archieter, and Professor Borrichius, who were cut for the stone, but it being too large to be extracted, they died in less than three weeks afterwards. " Si quando autem is major non videtur, nisi rupta cervice, cxtrahi posse, fiudendus est, cujus repertor Ammonius, ob id cognominatus est. In hoc modo fit, uncus injicitur calculo sic, ut facile eum concussum quoque teneat, ne is retro revolva- tur: turn ferramentum adhibetur crassitudinis modicae, prima parte tenui, sed retusa, quod admotum calculum, et ex altera parte ictuni, findit; magna cura habita, ne aut ipsam vesicam per ferramentum pcrveniaf, aut calculi I'ractura ne quid incidat."71 Christian era; for we find Avenzoar, an Arabian physician of the twelfth century, exclaming against this and some other operations, as being too filthy and abominable for a man of character to meddle with, and that no religious man, according to the law, ought so much as view the genitals. And yet he treats pretty fully of operations relat- ing to these parts as do all the rest of the Arabian authors.* Albucasis, an Arabian surgeon, who lived in the twelfth century, has given a full account of this operation, particularly on women, yet there is some reason to believe that he did not practice lithotomy on the female; for in one part of his work he mentions as a proof of the chasteness of those times in which he lived, that a virgin was never to be touched by the hand of a surgeon when afflicted with this malady; nor would a chaste or married woman describe such an in- firmity to a man. It appears probable that the operation was then practised on females by a mid- wife, or some such person who had been instructed in the manual part of the art of lithotomy. This ac- cords with the oath of Hippocrates, and is described by most of the ancient writers who represent themi- * These notions are fully detailed by Avenzoar, in a work entitled, " Al Thaisser," which treats on all necessary rules for medicine and diet to be used in most diseases.72 selves as mere spectators of the operation. This, however, was not exclusively the case, for during many centuries, operations for Hernia, Fistula, and various others were conducted by the same class of men, in different countries, about the same period. I73 ON THE APPARATUS MAJOR, OR SECTIO MARIANA. This method of operating for the stone was invented by Johannes de Romanis, a surgeon of Cremora, in Italy, about the year J 525, and made pubHc by his scholar Marianus, in a Latin treatise some years after, and which has acquired this appellation, because it requires more instruments than the Celsian method. This operation soon gained general notice, as being suited to persons of all ages, while that of Celsus .was judged practicable only on young subjects under the age of fourteen. This induced regular practitioners to abandon it, and cutting on the gripe was after- wards practised only by itinerant lithotomists. The patient being prepared for the operation, was placed horizontally on a table, and secured in the position usually adopted in the present mode of operating for the stone. A grooved staff was conducted into the bladder along the urethra, the handle of which was to be turned over the right inguen of the patient, by which the convex part of the staff would appear prominent in the urethra on the left side of the perineum. In this position it K74 was secured by an assistant with one hand, while he raised up the scrotum with tlie other. The operator then with a scalpel made an incision through the integuments four inches in length, (if an adult) from the termination of the scrotum, along the left side of the perineum, to near the anus. The urethra was next divided from its bulb to the commencement of the prostate gland ; and this was usually done by reversing the edge of the knife, and finishing the incision, by dividing the canal of the urethra upwards in a direction to- wards the pubis of the patient. The urethra being thus laid open, the surgeon was to take hold of the staff with one hand, and with the other to push a male conductor along its groove into the bladder; the staff being then withdrawn, a female grooved conductor was guided along the other into its cavity. With these two instruments, the urethra, prostate gland, and neck of the bladder were dilated to an extent adequate to enable the operator to introduce the forceps and extract the stone without restraint. On some occasions the surgeon dilated the parts with the fingers, or by means of a blunt gorget, or dilator made for the purpose, or by expanding the blades of the forceps in all possible directions, and to an extent whichiiot unfrequently subjected the tortured patient to an incontinence of urine afterwards, or produced such a degree of75 inflammation of the parts, that death was the inevitable consequence. For a more particular account of the form and mode of using these horrid instruments, called Dilators, the reader may refer to the works of Franco, the Collots, ScuUetus, Tolet, Pare, Le Cat, and Mery.76 ON THE HIGH OPERATION, OR APPARATUS ALTUS. In the Apparatus Alius, the surgeon makes an incision through the integuments of the lower part of the abdomen and anterior portion of the bladder, a little above the pubis and below the' place where the peritoneum is reflected over the bladder, when in a relaxed state. The operation has been performed in different ways, as best suited the genius of the surgeon, or condition of the patient. The most ancient method was that of Pierre Franco, a native of Turriere, in Provence, who practised surgery with great reputation in the sixteenth century, and who in part adopted the plan of Celsus, (by directing an assistant to raise the stone upwards by means of two fingers passed up the rectum,) whilst he made an incision above the pubis and extracted the stone through the wound. Though this author was so fortunate as to succeed in his first attempt, on a boy of two years old at Lausanne, in Swit- zerland, he earnestly dissuades his professional brethren from imitating the practice, as the patient had a very narrow escape in consequence ; and it appears from the history of the case, that he had77 recourse to this mode of operating from necessity, and not from choice, for the stone appeared to him too large to be extracted by the operation in perinffio, as will appear from his own accomit of the case in the 33rd chapter of his book Des Hernies, published in the year 1561. A boy of two years old was brought to him afflicted with a stone in his bladder about the size of a hen's egg. When Franco had done all he could to bring the stone downwards to the neck of the bladder, to no purpose,- and the child was so grievously tormented by the existing stone, that the parents were much more desirous that he should die, than live in torture. Franco thinking it would be a disgrace to him that he could not extract the stone, at length resolved to cut in the upper part of the os pubis. Although the stone could not be brought downwards, yet he so raised it up by thrusting his fingers into the anus, (whilst one of the assistants on the other side compressed the belly, and forced the stone to the place of incision,) that he there cut for it, and the boy, though very much weakened, ulti- mately recovered. From the history of this fortunate case, as related by Franco, Rousset, a French physician, was induced to believe that this was the safest and most easy way of cutting for the stone, though he acknowledges he never performed the operation on the living subject, and78 asserts that he was unacquainted with Franco's operation on the boy at Lausanne, when he first published his work under the title De Partu CcBsario, in the year 1590. In this he advocates the high operation, and endeavours to elucidate the project by powerful analogical reasoning, founded on a comparison of it with the Marian operation. In a subsequent edition of his work, sect. iii. chap. 6 and 7, he censures Franco for dissuading others from this mode of operating in the following manner: " I cannot forbear very much wondering why he should endeavour to discourage others from attempting the like. Does that good man envy mankind the happiness of the invention ?" Rousset nevertheless made many experiments and dissections on the dead subject, from which he became convinced in his own mind, that wounds of the membranous parts of the bladder might be inflicted without proving mortal. Hence he was induced to become a zealous arbiter for the hypogastric section. For an interval of more than twenty years from this period authors were silent regarding this im- portant surgical discovery; and no surgeon ven- tured to imitate the practice of Franco, probably owing, in some degree, to his discouraging it, and to the sentiment of Hippocrates, who represents wounds of the bladder as being generally mortal. Notwithstanding the ingenious arguments and79 analogical reasoning advanced by Roussct, we find no examples recorded of the high operation till about the year 1719, except a few soHtary J; instances. Tolet, in his Treatise of Lithotomy, published in the year 1683, page 76, says that " Mr. Jonnot told me that Mr. Bonnet, a chirurgeon, who heretofore practised Lithotomy in the Hotel Dieu of Paris assured him, that he had cut in that manner. " Mr. Petit, a master chirurgeoti of that hospital, told me that he had seen Mr. Bonnet practise it upon a young girl, and Dionis likewise concurs in the same opinion." Greenfield, an English sur- geon, in his Treatise on the St07ie and Gravel, published in the year 1710, at page 152 says, " I once had a patient in Long Lane, in Moor- Jields, upon whom I was obliged to perform the High Operation, and very successfully extracted the stone, by making an incision near the groin, the patient soon recovering; which shews that wounds in the fibrous parts of the bladder are not always mortal." About the beginning of the seventeenth century this important discovery as- sumed a new era in Lithotomy, and we find Douglass, Cheselden, and Proby adopted this method in England, soon after which it became practised in France by the celebrated Morand.80 ROUSSF/PS METHOD OF PERFORMING THE HIGH OPERATION. RoussET had the merit of being the first who recommended the bladder to be distended with a quantity of injected fluid prior to the operation, by means of a grooved or hollow catheter fixed in the urethra and bladder, so as to raise the peritoneum out of the way of the Hypogastric section; the bladder being amply dilated, the liquor was retained therein by means of a liga- ture tied round the penis. In cases where the bladder would not permit a sufficient quantity of fluid to be injected or retained in its cavity, Rousset either applied a yoke on the penis, or an assistant grasped the part with his fingers to restrain the urine after it had accumulated in the bladder and distended it. Preparatory to the operation, the patient was laid upon a table with his shoulders a little raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and his legs extending over the edge, with the feet resting on a stool elevated for that purpose. The pelvis was likewise to be raised in order to prevent the intes- tines from gravitating downwards, and pushuig81 tliis visciis out of its natural situation or the stone towards the neck of tlie bUidder. The patient being- thus placed, and the bladder distended; Rousset directs the external incision to be made nearly in a line with the linea alba, beginning about four inches and a half above the ossa pubis, (if an adult,) and carrying it down between the recti and pyramidalis muscles, to the junction of the symphysis; the bladder is then to be punctured at its anterior part, and the ligature at the same time removed from the penis, lest the fluid be extrava- sated in the cavity of the wound. The incision of the bladder is next to be completed downwards to the pubis, by i means of a probe-pointed bistoury, in. a line parallel with the external wound; the con- tents of the bladder being evacuated, it will necessa- rily become collapsed, the surgeon immediately passes one or two fingers, if a male, into the anus; or if a female, into the vagina to raise the stone, so that it may be more readily taken out either by the fingers or forceps. A silver catheter is to be con- ducted by the urethra into the bladder, and fixed there for the purpose of discharging blood, puss, or urine. I The patient is then to be placed in bed upon his back with the thighs brought together and secured in this position, and the wound left to unite without the use of ligatures. The High Operation, though greatly applauded ^t one time, has been long obsolete, insomuch that L82 it has not obtained a place in some late publica- tions on surgery; the subject has nevertheless been taken up by Professor Carpue, of London, to which work I refer the reader for a cir- cumstantial history, with observations on the advantages attending it, and Dr. Souherhielle s mode of using the Sonde-de-dard. It is the middle of the anterior part of the blad- der where the incision is usually made in perform- ing this operation, between the place where the peritoneum is reflected over this viscus and the OS pubis, and except the bladder be considerably distended, which is very seldom the case under affections of stone, there is much danger of wound- ing the peritoneum; to avoid which different methods have been proposed and adopted with a view of facilitating the operation, lest the contents of the bladder escape into the cellular or reticular membrane, and produce unhappy effects. Some authors recommend air forced mto this viscus by a pair of bellows, prior to the operation; others prefer injections of wanii water, to be retained therein by means of compression upon the urethra. Another method has been practised, of allowing the patient a liberal use of diluent liquors for some time previous to the operation, and securing the urine in this viscus with a ligature upon the penis. This last mentioned mode of distending the blad- der, appears to me the least objectionable, as there83 is iniicli risk iaciirred, by whatever means that organ is artificially distended; for if the tone of the muscnlar fibres be destroyed, all hopes from the operation of lithotomy must be abandoned. Cheselden relates a fatal instance of the bladder being- burst by injecting too much water into it; and with the view of avoiding this circumstance, lie specifies the proper quantity of liquor to be in- jected to be about twelve ounces to an adult, and to a person of nine years old about eight, making allowance for the bulk of the stone. See his Treatise on the High Operation. it is evident that there is much uncertainty in the capacity and retentive powers of this recep- tacle. In order, however, to ascertain the pleni- tude of the bladder, the finger of one hand of the surgeon may be introduced into the anus of the patient, and the other hand be laid on the hypogastrium; and by an alternate pressure from these two points, the surgeon may form a tolerable idea of the capacity of this viscns, and be enabled to ascertain, in some degree, the size and situa- tion of the stone, the state of the prostate gland, and structure of the bladder; or by observing the quantity of urine voided by the patient at different intervals before the operation. This, I conceive, is the most certain way to ascertain the quantity of fluid which may be injected into this organ with impunity, for the capacity of the bladder will de^84 pentl on its morbid condition, the size and asperity of the stone, and the degree of irritability. The celebrated Morand, in a Dissertation on ihe High Operatioti says, "Though I am con^ viuced of the advantages and facihty of this operation, compared with the method oiMarianus, I think it would be imprudent to undertake it upon all without distinction; perhaps it may have been their performing it upon all indifferently, that has a little discredited it in England'' He further remarks, " that the High Operation is the only sure method of extracting large stones, and those which are contained in some particular bag of the bladder, as has been often seen." In an Apj^endix to the Translation of Morand's work by Douglass, is the following observation. From all which I think I may justly infer, that we ought to make the High Operation in all cases from five to fifty years of age, when the patient is otherwise in a good state of health, because ex- perience, the best of all arguments, shews that such patients stand a better chance of living after this than any other method ; and above all, have no ground to fear being plagued during life with a fistula, incontinency of urine, or of being made impotei>t by it, one or all of which often succeed the other operation." Heister has furnished us with no particular;) of his cases; though he says, «* I have extracted the85 stone from two patients by the High Operation, when I could not effect the same in periueo, by the Lateral Method; and 1 never yet met with an instance where the High Operation was performed, and the patient could not be freed from the stone thereby, though it had in some cases been very large." M. Deschamps relates a successful case of the High Operation after a failure by the me- thod in perineo. The advantages attending the High Operation. 1. _It is attended with less pain, and generally performed in less time than the Lateral Operation. 2. No danger from haemorrhage or risk of wounding the pudical artery. 3. —,]Vo fear of wounding the rectum, or in- jm'ing th(i seminal ducts. 4. —No wound inflicted either on the prostate gland, or neck of the bladder. 5. —Whatever be the size or situation of the stone it may more readily be extracted by the High than by the Lateral method. 6. —No fear of being plagued with a fistula, or incontinence of urine.m The disadvantages allending the High Operation. J.—The High 0(3eration is not eligible on cor- pulent subjects, nor incases where the bladder will not bear distention either by the natural accumula- tion of the urine, or by injections sufficient to raise the peritoneum above the place of incision. 2. —Danger from wounding the peritoneum and suffering the contents of the bladder to be diff^used into the cellular or reticular membrane connected with the wound, and causing inflammation and sinuses, difficult to heal. 3. —Ineligible in cases where there is a schirrous affection of the bladder or prostate gland, accom- panied with stricture of the urethra. From comparing the testimony of different au- thors of the greatest eminence, with the advantages and disadvantages resulting from the different modes of lithotomy, it is manifest that the High Operation claims an equal share of attention from the surgeon with the lateral method; for we are acquainted with cases both of ancient and modern times where the operation in the perineum, has been attempted, and the stone proved too large to pass through the space between the tuberosities of the ischii, and where it could not be broken by means of the forceps. Hence this method of opereiting under certain peculiar circumstances87 above noticed, undoubtedly presents a resource warranted by success, and sanctioned by authors of great experience and candour. As the High Operation has for a long time been abandoned, we can form our estimate of success only from the records of those times in which it was in repute, compared with the present mode of operating in the lateral way ; and if I mistake not, the success attending the High Operation as practised both by the English and French surgeons at that period equalled, if not surpassed those of the same hospitals, in both countries at the present day, when performed under similar circumstances. As aproof of what I have advanced, let the reader make himself acquainted with the present average success of hospital practice, and compare it with the works of Franco, Collot, Middleton, Doug-^ lass, Morand, Cheselden, Thornhill, Deschamps, and Heister. The reader may further satisfy himself on this subject, by a reference to the late publications of Dr. Marcet,,on Calculus Disorders, and Dr. Front's Inquiry into the nature and treat- ment of Gravel and Calculus, wherein the mortality attending the Lateral Operation in most of the principal hospitals in the kingdom, is stated in a tabular form. It becomes a question then, whether the High or Lateral Operatiott has a preference; and to decide in favour of either indiscriminately, and88 oil all occasions would, I conceive, be wrong, for each has its advantages (like many other sur- gical operations) of being peculiarly adapted to a distinct mode of operating, according to cir- cumstances. It is evident that stones of a mag- nitude too large to be extracted by the lateral method, may, without difficulty, be removed by the Hypogastric section; and as the danger at- tendhig the former is generally in proportion to the si2;e of the stone, I feel disposed to give a pre- ference to the High Operation in all cases where it can be previously ascertained that the stone ex- ceeds the bulk of a hen's egg. Should, however, the surgeon have proceeded inadvertently so far in the Lateral Operation, as either to be under the absolute necessity of breaking the stone in the bladder owing to its size; or of extracting it by undue force, and lacerating the contiguous parts ; or if the calculus be found lodged in a cyst, or adherent to the inner coat of this viscus; he would afford the patient a greater chance of surviving the operation by abandoning his project; and im- mediately have recourse to the High Operation, or what is called the operation en deux temps, where the incision is made at one time, and the stone extracted at a subsequent period, after the inflam- mation has subsided ; by this mode of proceeding the bladder would collapse, the wound in the hypogastrium heal, and the urine dribble throughS9 that of the periuieiun; and be healed by the process of granulation; whilst on the other hand, by the surgeon persisting to extract the "stone by the lateral method, under the circumstances above stated, such injury must unavoidably be committed on the patient, that death would be the almost inevitable consequence. In order to expedite the healing of the wound, made by hypogastric section, a flexible' gum catheter should be passed up the urethra, and be permanently fixed in the bladder, so that the urine may escape as it accumulates, and the receptacle remain in a state of contraction, till the wound is healed. This process will add greatly t&. the success of the operation. Instances of stones being found sacculated or adherent in the bladder are very rare, as no such eventhas occurred to me; and though we frequently hear of cases in private practice of this description, I a'm induced to believe, that the incidental em- barrassments sometimes attending the operation of lithotomy are too frequently imputed to such morbid occurrences'^* as ^ an apology for inadvert- ence, or unskilfiil pl-actice. The'presence of encysted or adherent stones in the bladder, has nevertheless been doubted by some surgical writefs.^ On thisi' subject, the * Aiiioiiir authors who embrace this opinion, are Ronsset, Collet, and Tolet. , - M90" reader may consult the works of the following authors: Scheitkius, Hollereus, Tulpius, Marcell, Do7iatus, Hildatius, Mercurialis, Fernelius^ Are- tcBuSy Ambrose, Pare, JBauhin, Sarbette, Heister, Sharp, the Philosophical Transactions, and Me- moirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris. Couillard, a French surgeon, relates several observations of encysted stones in the urinary bladder; when the stone is adherent he proposes injections of tripe broth thrown into the bladder to detach them. The same author says, that in probing a patient, he found the stone encysted; notwithstanding which, he undertook the opera- tion, being determined to tear the cysts, which he did with success, and extracted a stone as large as a hen's egg. The cyst was afterwards ex- pelled through the wound, and contained two hundred small stones, after which the paitent recovered. See latro-chirurg. obs. 2, 3, 12. M. Desault in the Parisian Chirugical Journal, has given a plate, representing an instrument he has invented, called a Kystitome, for the purpose of extracting adherent or encysted stones. The Lever or Scoop of which I have furnished a plate, appears to me to be better adapted for exploring the cavity of the bladder, with a view either of detaching enchased or sacculated stones, or of extracting them with safety, than any other instrument with which I am acquainted.91 ON THR LATERAL OPERATION. The Lateral Operation has acquired its appel- lation from the prostate gland and neck of the bladder being divided in a lateral direction. The introduction of this operation by Frere Jaques, may undoubtedly be considered as a fortunate sera in surgery; and the evil conse- quences unavoidably attending the Apparatus Major, and the painful distention and laceration of the prostatic portion of the urethra, producing such frequent disastrous events, must have sug- gested the lateral method of operating. *• This surprising lithotomist, (Frere Jaques de Beaulieu, of Besancon,) appeared (says Dionis,) as a monk, in the year J 697, in the habit of a Franciscan, with this difference only, that he wore shoes instead of sandals, and instead of a caul, a hat. He assumed the name of Brother James, and appeared plain and ingenuous ; his diet was very sober, he lived on pottage and bread only ; he had no money, and never asked any more than a few sols to pay for the setting of his instruments, and mending his shoes. He formed to himself a religion according to his own fancy, backed with92 vows, tlie liljorly of dispuiisiiii^ vvilli which he left to his ordinary at pleasure. Resolving to devote the future part of his life to travelling as an itinerant lithotoniist; he set out from Besancon, the place of his ordinary residence, furnished with commendatory certificates, bearing testimony of his success as a lithotomist in several provinces of France, and announcing his wish to operate in the presence of the surgeons of Paris. These letters of introduction being presented at the Hotel Dieu, and De la Charite, he was rejected ; it not being customary to expose hospital patients to the risk of experiments; nevertheless a dead body was procm-ed, into whose bladder a stone was con- veyed, and which Frere Jaqiies, extracted in the presence of many surgeons. But his method of operating, whether from prejudice or other causes, was not approved of; and Jaques finding himself coldly received by the faculty, resolved to leave Paris, and go to Fontainbleau, where he met with encouragement. Being allowed to operate on a boy from Versailles, the operation succeeded ; he gained great applause, and so much was the public opinion changed in his favor, that he set out again for Paris the ensuing spring, where he was permitted to operate on patients in the Hotel Dieu, and La Charite. His success being various, a diversity of sentiment took place amongst the first surgeons in France. Jaques,* ho^vever con-93 tinned to practise gratuitously and with increasing prosperity. " In the year 1702 he visited Versailles, at the intreaty of the Marshal de Lorges, who then suffered from the stone. Jaques performed the operation, and extracted seven small stones with difficulty; the bladder was diseased,-and con- tained several fungous excrescences ; and unfor- tunately the Marshal died the following day in great agony. This disastrous event induced Ja- ques to leave Versailles, and he afterwards travelled the greatest part of his life over the pro- vinces of France, Holland, Switzerland, Ger- many, and Italy. During the whole of his travels he adhered strictly to his plan of charity, and maintained the simplicity of his habits. He was hailed with enthusiasm wherever he went, and regarded as one sent from heaven." Mr. Sharp appears to have had a more favour- able opinion of his mode of operating than most •authors; for in his Treatise on the Operations of Surgery, he says, "Jaques knew more of lithotomy than is generally imagined ; for he saw, when in France, a Treatise on this operation, published by Jaques in the year 1702, wherein his mode of operating is described as not being essentially different from the lateral operation practised in his time, to- which work there is a certificate an- nexed, stating that Jaques had cut thirty-eight94 patients successively at Versailles, without losing one, and had so much improved his apparatus as to make use of a grooved staflV This is in some measure corroborated by Dr. Martin Lister, physician to the British Embassy, in his journey to Paris, published in the year 1698, page 233. " I saw him (says this author) cut a second time in the Hotel Dieu ; and he performed it upon nine persons in three quarters of an hour very dex- terously. He seemed to venture at all; and put me in some disorder with the cruelty of the oper- ation. However, I visited them all in their beds, and found them more amazed than in pain." Frere Jaques used no preparatory regimen or medicines to his patients, nor troubled himself after the operation with any application to the wound, except a little oil and wine, on which he relied for the cure. It is said he was so intrepid in his operations, and negligent with regard to his patients, that when he was entreated by them to continue his future attention, he would answer, it is sufficient that I have extracted the stone, God himself will heal the wound ! How this extraordinary man acquired the know- ledge of the lateral operation is unknown, as he had been barely taught to read and write during his youth. Some authors suppose that he learned this mode of operating from an itinerant quack95 named Pmtloni, with whom Jaqnes travelled as an assistant for several years. It is the opinion of several authors, and not without good ground, that Frere Jaques had greater success in his operations than most sur- geons of the present day who use the gorget. This milettered person cut nearly 6000 patients for the stone during the course of his travels, and though he was persecuted by many regular sur- geons, his success was so great, that eventu- ally he became imitated by others of superior judgment; such, for instance, yveve Mareschal at Paris, Raw in Holland, Bamber and Cheselden in England, and most of the celebrated lithoto- mists of that age, Mauchart says, " Of this celebrated hermit, alternately extolled by his friends and derided by his enemies, what shall we say ? Intrepid and fearless, his hand never trembled, nor did his courage faulter in the most unlooked for and perilous situations: modest, humble, covetous of nothing but glory, he presented himself in our city, as one sent from heaven, to alleviate the sufferings of his fellow creatures." It is supposed, that during his travels, he had greatly improved himself by the friendly inter- course and anatomical demonstrations of Du Verney, and Felix; for at Amsterdam, a gold medal was struck in honour of him, of the valuem of four hundred livrcs; on one side was the bust of Frere Jaques, and on the other, the arms of the city, with this inscription; " Pro servatis civibus," At the Hague, the chief magistrates had his portrait engraved, and they also presented him with a set of golden sounds. Jaques still continued to travel in the capacity of an itinerant lithotomist through various parts of Europe, till about the year 1719, and being then in the 6.9th year of his age, he returned to Besancon, where he soon afterwards died in the house of his old friend 31. Decars. It is said, that whatever presents he received from the rich, he gave to the poor, which accounts for his dying in extreme poverty; for the golden sounds with which he was presented at the Hague, he was known to have melted from mere necessity ! From a view of the anatomy of the pelvis, and its viscera, it is easy to perceive that the course of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, is the most natural and eligible route by which surgeons have availed themselves for ages past, to penetrate this viscus, for the purpose of extracting the stone. Before describing the way of executing the Lateral Operation, as practised with the cutting gorget, it may not be improper first to recite the boundaries prescribed to this method, in order to facilitate its performance with greater safety to the patient; particularly as the chief steps of the97 operation are unavoidably directed by anatomical knowledge, and feeling of the respective parts, not being- assisted by the aid of the eye, as in most other surgical cases. The chief parts to be avoided in lithotomy, by the lateral method, are the symphysis pubis, raphe, tuberosity of the left ischium, anus, bulb of the urethra, pudical artery, rectum, vasa de- ferentia, and vesicula seminalis. The parts to be divided are, the skin and m- tea uments to the extent of nearly 4^ inches, (if an adult,) transversalis perinei, erector penis, levator ani, accelerator urinae, membranous portion of the urethra, prostate gland, and a few fibres of the neck of the bladder. I am aware that the operation may be performed without wholly dividing the erector penis and acce- lerator urines, but as these muscles are frequently bruised and lacerated in extracting the stone when left entire, there is more propriety in dividing thein with the scalpel, and if the stone be large, it will be extracted with much less violence, and the wound will heal more readily than if they were left uncut in the operation. Previous to the operation, and during the different times of sounding the patient, the surgeon should endeavour to acquire a knowledge of the respective parts connected in lithotomy. By the ititroduction of one or two fingers up the rectum, N98 he will feel the curvature of the staflT, the situation of the rectutn, the condition of the prostate gland, and course of the membranous part of the urethra, and probably be enabled to estimate the size of the stone, so that he may apportion his incision accordingly. These are essential objects of practice; they secure hiestimable advantages in an operation of such importance, and ought never to be omitted by the litliotomist. The patient being previously prepared for the operation, and every necessary apparatus arranged, he is to be laid on his back on a firm table, three feet high, with a blanket spread under him; the head and shoulders a little elevated with pillows, and the breech reaching over the edge of the table: the patient is then to bend his knees, and bring his hands and feet together, placing the palms of each hand over the outer ancle of each foot, and grasping the soles with his fingers; they are then to be secured in this position by means of two flat ligatures. He must be sup- ported during the whole operation by an assistant placed on each side. The surgeon then seats himself in a chair before, and rather to the patient's right side; and having first warmed and besmeared the staff with oil, he introduces it into the bladder as before directed in the passing of the catheter, &c. Having distinctly felt the stone, he leans the99 handle of the iustrument towards the right groin of the patient, and gives it into the right hand of an assistant, who keeps it steadily fixed, so that its point may continue in contact with the stone, and the convexity be felt near the line of the raphe, while with the left hand the assistant supports the scrotum, in order that the operator may have a full view of tiie perineum. The surgeon then^ begins the incision of the in- teguments with a scalpel a little below the termi- nation of the scrotum, and rather on the left side of the raphe, dividing the skin and cellular sub- stance downwards in an oblique direction, and in an equal line between the tuberosity of the left ischium and anus, to the extent of four inches and a half, (if an adult,) and ending the incision an inch below the approximation of these two parts. He next proceeds to divide the muscles of the pe- rineum, as before mentioned, (p. 97,) and lays bare the whole of the membranous part of the urethra, without interfering with the bulb; he now searches for the staff, and on pressing the fore finger of the left hand against its sulcus, with the edge of the scalpel turned upwards, he divides this membrane completely from its commencement at the anterior part of the prostate gland to the bulb. This being accomplished, the finger nail will serve to conduct the beak of the gorget into the groove of the staff; the operator then takes hold of its handle from100 the assist ant, which he elevates to nearly a right angle vvitli the body of the patient, and raising himself from his seat with the staff in the left hand, and the gorget in the right, he makes a uniform pressure with one hand against the other, to main- tain their junction, gently pushing the gorget along the groove; at the same time gradually depressing the handle, so that its beak may be elevated in a direction with the axis of the bladder, till it has evidently divided the prostate gland, and passed into this viscus. This event is usually announced by a gush of urine escaping through the wound. The surgeon then keeps the gorget steady, lest its sharp edge should do injury, whilst he withdraws the staff, and passes a suitable pair of forceps along the surface of that instrument into the bladder. Or he may first cautiously with- draw the gorget immediately after it has entered this viscus, and conduct them along the side of the staff into the bladder: or what is preferable, the surgeon may insinuate his finger up the wound, on which the forceps may be slided into the cavity of this viscus, the stone be taken hold of and extracted carefully and deliberately in the axis of the outlet of the pelvis, by inclining the handles downwards in a direction with that part of the wound which opposes the least resistance, and in a way some- what similar to the method employed by an ac- coucheur, when artificially delivering the head of101 the foetus with the forceps. If there should be much resistance from the action of the muscles of the pelvis and abdomen, the surgeon should desist from extracting, and wait a given time till the spasm be relaxed by rest, or the administering of a strong opiate; after which the stone will be more readily extracted, and less injury inflicted on the parts in its passage. The opposing obstacle to the ready extraction of the stone, will in most instances be found to arise from the wound made with the gorget being too small, which defect, the operator is sometimes compelled to rectify, by extending the incision in a lateral direction, by means of the probe-pointed bistoury. Hence the transmission of the stone with the forceps, becomes dangerous to the patient, tedious and embarrassing to the opera- tor, chiefly in proportion to its relative size and situation with the opening through which it has to pass. The stone may be either situated at the fundus of the bladder, behind the prostate and below its neck, above the pubis, screened in a cell, or ad- herent to the coats of this viscus; so that if the surgeon cannot easily seize it with the forceps, 1 would recommend the use of the /Scoop or Lever, as a useful adjunct, and one less liable to inflict injury on the surface of the bladder than the forceps. See Plate,!. Fig. 3 and 4.102 By this simple instrutiient, when employed in complex cases, the stone will in genertil be more readily found, and extracted with greater facility, and without the risk of its breaking; an accident which should always be avoided if possible, for, however well the bladder may be washed out with injections, there is always danger of fragments remaining, which may serve as nuclei for the future formation of stones. Cases occasionally occur where the stone is too large to pass between the converging tuberosities of the ischii; in such instances, surgeons have sometimes succeeded in breaking the stone, and different instruments have been invented for the purpose. But a number of. cases are recorded by authors, where the stone could neither be broken in the bladder, nor extracted by the incision in the perineum. The case of Sir A¥alter Ogilvie, as related by Sir James Earle in the Philosophical Transactions, is one among many others of this description. Nevertheless, if the surgeon will avail himself of his knowledge of the size of the stone, by means of the finger passed up the rectum prior to the operation, he will not be brought into this dilemma, but select the high operation in pre- ference to the lateral method; as instances have occurred where the surgeon has been foiled in this stage of lithotomy, and the stone has been after-103 wards extracted by compounding the lateral with the anterior mode of operation above the pubis. Cases sometimes occur, where the advanced age of the patient, or certain organic diseases or peculiarity of circumstances, wholly debar the propriety of attempting the operation in any form. On such occasions palliative means have been attended with advantage; and Dr. Douglas,* re- commends making an artificial opening into the urethra through the perineum, by which aperture the patient may introduce a probe, and push back the stone to relieve the paroxysms and suppression of urine. In a project of this kind, and where the calculus is indentitied to be small, the artificial opening might probably be dilated, so as to allow the stone to be extracted either in the way recom- mended, by distending the meatus urinarius on women, or by means of Mr. Arnott's dilator. See also the Medico Chirugical Transactions, vol. xi. page 349, where there is an account of a case in which numerous calculi were extracted from the urinary bladder, without the employment of cut- ting instruments, by Sir Astley Cooper. It has been the practice of some ancient lithoto- mists in cases where the stone was either very large, * Phil. Trans. 1727, vol. 35, page 318. See also a project invented by Mr. Mudge, an ingenious surgeon at Plymoutli, Phil. Trans, vol. 46, page 24^ 1749.104 encysted, or eluded the grasp of the forceps, to imitate the en deux temps oi Fi anco, and postpone the completing of the operation till the inflamma- tion had subsided, and the suppurative process taken place, during which interim, the stone was propelled to the orifice of the bladder, or appeared at the mouth of the external wound, on which the surgeon has resumed the operation, and extracted it with safety and without difficulty. For a more particular and interesting account of this mode of operating, see the works of Franco, Albucasis, Heister, Deschamps, Tolet, Hildamis, and Collofs Traite des Tallies, page 182. After the stone has been extracted, the bladder must be explored, to discover if there be another, by means of the scoop or a female sound, and if none can be found, the operation is completed; and a piece of lint spread on both sides with cerate, may then be insinuated between the lips of the wound, in such a way that room may be left for the free evacuation of blood or urine, the whole being slightly secured by the T bandage; after which the patient may be released and conveyed to bed, and a small pillow being placed between the knees, they are to be brought near together and secured by an easy ligature. If the patient should appear watchful and not disposed to sleep, in the space of half an hour after being put to bed, recourse should be imme-105 diately had to the warm bath, in which he should remain as high as the neck for half an hour, or till syncope is produced ; and on being taken out 80 or 100 drops of Tinct Opii may be given, (if an adult,) after which he may be left to repose between the blankets, with his knees placed as before directed. This important branch of surgery began to be cultivated with unexampled ardour during the early part of the seventeenth century, and fur- nishes interesting lessons of instruction to the surgical enquirer. The lateral operation, as promulgated by Frere Jaques, appears to be the natural result of suc- cessive improvements made by many ingenious lithotomists, among whom may be ranked Morand, in France, Raiv, in Holland, and Cheselden, in England. Subsequent to this epoch, Morand, a member of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris, reasons very dispassionately on the different methods of lithotomy, as practise<l in his time, and says, that " all of them may be used with propriety, as the circumstances of the patient require." He con- siders a variety of methods an advantage, rather than the contrary, and would refect no plan of operating which had reason and experience to* justify it. o106 Professor Raw, was teaching anatomy at Am- sterdam, when Frere Jaques made his appearance as a lithotomist in that ciiy; and seeing him ex- hibit his improved mode of operation, with the aid of a grooved staff. Raw was induced to abandon the Marian method, and without hesita- tion, to adopt that of Jaques, by which he acquired great celebri«ty as a lithotomist, and cut in the course of his life, more than three hundred patients. Notwithstanding his exalted reputation, he had nOt the candour to impart his method of operating even to his best friends, and endeavoured disingenuously to impress upon the minds of those who saw him operate, that he actually cut into the body of the bladder behind its neck, through which incision he extracted the stone, and left the cervix entire. This act of dissimulation, was nevertheless promulgated to the world by his pupil Albi- nus, in the year J 725. About this time, the celebrated Cheselden, laid aside the high opera- tion, and betook himself to Raw's method, as described by Albinus, but not being successful in this way, owing to the urine lodging in the cellular membrane surrounding the rectum, and exposing the patient to inflammation and danger, it was abandoned; and he endeavoured, by the aid of his anatomical knowledge, to improve Raw's method, by substituting more convenient instruments, and establishing the operation on107 definite principles, founded on tlie anatomy of the respective parts. This desirable object, he atlength secured, and raised his practice to a state of per- fection scarcely excelled by any species of litho- tomy at the present day. His success continued without variation till his death, which event took place in the year 1752.* In justice to Cheselden's liberality of sentiment and transcendent merit, both as a professor of anatomy and practical lithotomist, I will tran- scribe his latest and most improved plan of oper- ating, as described in his Anatomy of the Human Body, Edit. 9, Chap. 6, Page 325, &c. in order that the reader may be enabled to compare his practice and success with the various methods adopted by surgeons in performing the lateral operation at the present period. * Chesdden operated by the lateral inetliod in three different ways, at three successive periods, but this is his third and most improved method.108 CHESELDEN'S METHOD OF PERFORMING THE LATERAL OPERATION^ This operation, (says Cheselderi,) I do in the following manner: I tie the patient as for the great apparatus, but lay him upon a blanket se- veral doubles upon an horizontal table three feet high, with his head only raised. I first make as long an incision as I can, beginning near the place where the old operation ends, and cutting down between the musculus accelerator urinae, and erector penis, and by the side of the intestinum rectum : I then feel for the staff, holding down the gut all the while with one or two fingers of my left hand, and cut upon it in that part of the urethra which lies beyond the corpora cavernosa in-ethra, and in the prostate gland, cutting from below upwards, to avoid wounding the gut; and then passing the gorget* very carefully into the groove of the staff into the bladder, bearing the point of the gorget hard against the staff, observ- ing all the while that they do not separate, and * It is necessary to remark, that the gorget which Cheselden used was ]>hmt, and only served to guide the forceps into the bladder. I109 let the o-orget slip to the outside of the bladder; then I pass the forceps into the right side of the bladder, the wound being on the left side of the perineum; and as they pass, carefully attend to their entering the bladder, which is known by their overcoming a straitness which there will be in the place of the wound ; then taking care to push them no farther, that the bladder may not be hurt, I first feel for the stone with the end of * them, which having felt, I open the forceps and slide one blade underneath it, and the other at top; and if I apprehend the stone is not in the right place of the forceps, I shift it before I offer to extract, and then extract it very deliberately, that it may not slip suddenly out of the forceps, and that the parts of the wound may have time to stretch, taking great care not to gripe it so hard as to break it, and if I find the stone very large, I again cut upon it as it is held in the forceps. Here I must take notice, it is very convenient to have the bladder empty of urine before the opera- tion, for if there is any quantity to flow out of the bladder at the passing in of the gorget, the bladder does not contract but collapse into folds, which makes it difficult to lay hold of the stone without hurting the bladder ; but if the bladder is contracted, it is so easy to lay hold of it, that I have never been delayed one moment, unless the stone was very small. Lastly, I tie the blood-110 vessels by the help of a crooked needle, and use no other dressings than a little bit of lint be- smeared with blood, that it may not stick too long in the wound, and all the dressings during the cure are very slight, almost superficial, and with- out any bandage to retain them; because that will be wetted with urine, and gall the skin. " At first I keep the patient very cool to prevent bleeding, and sometimes apply a rag dipt in cold water, to the wound, and to the genital parts, ' which I have found very useful, in hot weather particularly. In children it is often alone sufficient to stop the bleeding, and always helpful in men. The day before the operation, I give a purge to empty the guts, and never neglect to give some laxative medicine or clyster a few days after, if the belly is at all tense, or if they have not a natural stool. What induced me to try this way, if I may be allowed to know ray own thoughts, was the con- sideration of women scarce ever dying of this operation; from which I concluded, that if 1 could cut into the urethra, beyond the corpora cavernosa urethrae, the operation would be nearly as safe in men as women. " What success I have had in my private prac- tice I have kept no account of, because I had no intention to publish it, that not being sufficientlyIll witnessed. Publicly in St. Thomas's hospital, I have cut two hundred and thirteen; of the first fifty, only three died ; of the second fifty, three; and the third fifty, eight; and of the last sixty-three, six. Several of these patients had the small pox during their cure, some of whom died, but I think, not more in proportion than what usually die of that distemper; these are' not reckoned among those who died of the operation. The reason why so few died in the two first fifties, was, at that time few very bad cases offered; in the third, the operation being in high request, even the most aged and most miserable cases ex- pected to be saved by it; besides, at that time, 1 made the operation lower, in hopes of improving it, but found I was mistaken. But what is of most consequence to be known, is the age of those who recovered, and those who died. " Of these, under ten years of age, one hundred and five were cut, three died; between ten and twenty, sixty-two cut, four died ; twenty and thirty, twelve cut, three died ; thirty and forty, ten cut, two died; forty and fifty, ten cut, two died; fifty and sixty, seven cut, four died; sixty and seventy, five cut, one died. Of those who recovered the three biggest stones, were twelve ounces and a quarter, and eight grains, and the greatest num- ber of stones in any one person, was thirty-three. " One of the three that died out of the hundred\ 112 and five, was very ill with a hooping cough; ano- ther bled to death by an artery into the bladder, it being very hot weather at that time; but this accident taught me afterwards, whenever a vessel bled that 1 could not find, to dilate the wound with a knife till I could see it." It would be incompatible with the design of this undertaking to describe all the minor modes of lithotomy, which have at different aeras been recom- mended by surgical writers. The many disastrous events which have resulted from the use of the gorget, have led some modern lithotomists to dis- card it from practice, and substitute the knife, or some other cutting instrument in its place. Hence I have been induced to describe the method of using it.113 ON OPERATING WITH THE KNIFE. The method of peiforiuing- the lateral operation, is now conducted by some eminent surgeons, somewhat on the following plan, by which the external incision, prostate gland, and neck of the bladder are all divided with the same instrument. The patient being prepared for the operation, and secured on a table, the surgeon seated, and the staff introduced, and fixed as before described, (p. 98.) he commences the incision with a scalpel, opposite the arch of the pubis, nearly an inch below the termination of the scrotum, and a little on the left side of the raphe, which he carries downwards to the extent of three inches and a half, (if an adult,) in an oblique line, between the tuberosity of the left ischium and anus. He next dissects the fat, cellular substance and ligamen- tary fibres, and completely divides the transversa- lis perinei and alter muscles, together with the membranous part of the urethra. Then feeling for the groove in the staff, through the opening, with the fore finger of the left hand, he takes hold of the staff from the assistant, and raising its handle for- wards, he then turns the knife aside and places its /114 point ill the sulcus, pushing it forwards through the substance of the prostate gland, in a lateral direction, and enlarging the incision of the neck of the bladder to a given extent, as he withdraws the instrument. The staff is then to be taken out, and the fore finger passed into the opening on which the forceps are conducted into the bladder, the stone taken hold of and extracted. On comparing the result of Cheseldens practice with the knife, and the present method of operat- ing with the gorget, we are led to draw this galling conclusion; that his success surpassed that of most modern lithotomists. " Let (says a modern author,) surgeons search the records of hospitals, for the operation of lithotomy since the invention of the gorget; let them recall to mind the number of cases in which the gorget had slipped betwixt the rectum and bladder; in which the incision had never reached the stone; in which the unsuccessful operator had imputed his mis- carriage to the stone being engaged in a sack;— let them recall to mind the operations of the present day, and say, if they ever heard of, or experienced success like this ?"—Allan on lithotomy.115 ON LITHOTOMY ON WOMEN. The female sex are much less liable to stone in the bladder than males, and consequently seldom require the operation. The reason is obvious; for the neck of the female bladder is not surrounded with the prostate gland as in men, and the urethra is much shorter, less curved, and more exten- sible. These circumstances render the sponta- neous expulsion of calculi a more common occur- rence : and hence we can account for numerous instances of very large stones having been naturally voided through the urethra, or extracted by that passage, after being artificially dilated. The chief symptoms of stone in the bladder of women, are, a burning heat at the extremity of the meatus urinarius, a bearing down of the uterus^ with frequent inclination to go to stool; in other respects, the symptoms are similar to those in men. To the danger and inconveniences attending the Marian operation, and the advantages deduced by the lateral method on men, may be ascribed the present mode of relieving M'omen from the stone by means of the gorget, instead of that by dilatation.116 The stone may be extracted from women either by the high, or the lateral operation; but the lateral method being comparatively easy, when contrasted with that in men, it is usually preferred. It may be performed in various ways ; but the most usual method consists, in passing through the meatus urinarius into the bladder a grooved director or staff, nearly straight; the grooved side is turned obliquely downwards and outwards, in a direction almost parallel with the ramus of the left OS ischium. The operator then holds the staff firm in his left hand, whilst he conveys the beak of the cutting gorget into the sulcus of the staff, and makes the necessary incision by gently pushing it along, till it has entered the cavity of the bladder. The stone is then to be extracted either by the fingers of the surgeon, or by means of the forceps; some surgeons make use of a con- ductor, on which the forceps are conveyed into the bladder. The records of surgery, furnish us with instances of stones of an enormous size being either na- turally voided, or artificially extracted from the urethra, by means of dilatation of the meatus urinarius. Such, for example, is the case related by Borelli, (cent. % obs. 22.) of a stone coming spontaneously from a female, the size of a goose's egg. Kirkringius and Bartholin have each de- scribed one as large as a hen's egg.117 Morand relates the case of a girl eighteen years old, who, by the efforts of nature alone, voided a stone from the bladder weighing four ounces. Middleton records a case where a stone weighing four ounces was expelled in a fit of coughing, after lodging in the urethra several days. In the Philosophical Transactions, Dr. Moli- neux relates an instance of a woman voiding a stone, the circumference of which measured 5| inches, its weight near 2^ ounces troy. Collot gives an instance where a stone the size of a goose's egg was discharged from the meatus uri- narius, after having lodged there seven or eight days. For more mstances of a similar nature, the reader may consult the works of Celsus, De Graf, D. Hieronymus, Tulpius, and the Philo- sophical Transactions. The structure of the female urethra and neck of the bladder, being surrounded by a tissue of very extensible substance, will admit stones of a con- siderable size to be voided naturally by the canal of the urethra. This circumstance has induced surgeons to adopt the gradual method of mecha- nically dilating the passage by different means ; such as prepared sponge, the gut of^ animals, eel skin, gentian root; or quickly by instru- ments called Conductors, Dilatators, or Specu- lum Vesicae, to give free access to the passage of118 the stone. See Park and IScuUaluss A rniamen- tarium Chirurgicum. The dilatation of the neck of the bladder and canal of the urethra, were the method exempt from the danger of causing incontinence of urine, would appear at first view preferable to all others for extracting the stone from females: but this disgusting infirmity so frequently hap- pening when the stone proves of considerable magnitude, outweighs every other advantage at- tending dilatation. An interesting case of this description is re- corded by 3Ir. Bromjield, which terminated suc- cessfully ; he effected the dilatation of the urethra by introducing into the meatus urinarius of a young girl, the closed extremity of the appendicula in- testini caeci of a small animal in a collapsed state. Into the open end of the appendicula, warm water was injected by means of a syringe, and secured externally by a ligature. The piece of gut thus distended was twisted round, and gra- dually drawn out as the cervix vesicae dilated ; and in a few hours the stone passed out without further assistance. See Chirurgical Obs. Vol. 2, page 276. Prosper Alpinus, in the 14th chap, of his third book, entitled Medicina Egypt, mentions a prac- tice adopted by the Egyptian physicians, of in- flating the male urethra, to effect the exit of the119 stone, by means of wooden pipes eight fingers lono' and about the thickness of a person's thumb at one end, and smaller in proportion at the other; the end of the pipe being introduced into the urethra, the operator, (Haly) an Arabian, blew into it with great force, and at the same tinie made a pressure with the hand upon the perineum to prevent the wind from entering the bladder: then he stopped the mouth of the pipe, to make the urethra swell and stretch. This being done, an assistant introduced his finger into the anus, and brought the stone forwards into the urethra. Haly then suddenly withdrew the pipe from the passage, and dexterously extracted the stone, which was about the size of an olive stone. " I was present, (says this author,) at this operation, which was performed upon a Turkish commander, and also saw him practice it upon two Jews ; one of which was a little boy, from whom he extracted eight small stones, and the other was grown up, from whom he took one as big as an olive." The Ara- bian physicians make use of another method to draw out stones from the bladder, which they accomplish with hollow pipes of different sizes introduced in succession. They extract the stone by placing the mouth to the open end of the pipe near the penis, and forcibly sucking and drawing thereat, till the stone enters the other end in the120 bladder; the pipe is then drawn forwards with the stone concealed tliereiii, and extracted. The various projects adopted by authors, of mechanically dilating the urethra for the purpose of removing calculi from the urethra or bladder may no doubt be practised with safety within certain limits, where the circumference of the ex- isting stone and the diameter of the canal of the urethra bear no great disparity to each other; but in cases where the size of the stone far ex- ceeds the capacity of the urethra, the method of dilatation has sometimes proved insufferably pain- ful and tedious and an irreparable incontinence of urine has been the consequence. Douglas nearly a century ago recommended the extraction of small stones by dilating the urethra, but if the stone be known to be large, he proposes in preference the High Operation. Morand seems to embrace the same opinion for he says, " as for the woman, I believe, that if the stone be small, the common method is preferable to the high operation ; but, if large, the apparatus altus is better than the ordinary method, because of the incontinency of urine, which happens through the laceration, and extravagant dilatation of the sphincter caused by the passage of a large stone." See also a case related by Mr. Thomas, in the Medico Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. J, page 123, 129.121 Cases of an uncommon nature will sometimes occur, where, from necessity, the surgeon may be induced to deviate from the common plan of operating. Under such circumstances some authors have adopted the project of making an opening directly into the bladder from the vagina; by which route the forceps is conducted into that viscus, and the stone extracted. Though Gooch relates , three successful cases of this mode of operating for the stone, it has not been admitted into general practice; and it is to be observed, that by cutting through the vagina into the bladder, these parts are so situated in the pelvis, that in all pro- bability the incision will either leave a fistulous opening, or produce a cicatrix in the vagina. Should the woman afterwards become pregnant, this unyielding condition of the passage, would prove a material obstacle in delivery ; and a lace- ration of the vagina and an incontinence of urine be the result. The infi-equent occurrence of the disease in females, and the few examples on record of this mode of operating, wholly deprive us of estimating its comparative success, with that of dividing the urethra; nevertheless these successful cases, at least convince us, that wounds of the body of the bladder made through the vagina, are not incurable. This fact is established by the testimony of different authors. See Rousset^ Hildanus, Rui/sch, and Tolet,122 Tlie Recto-vesical operation of lithotomy has been practised in a few instances with success, both in this country and on the continent. Pro- fessor Dupuytren, of Paris, has perfornaed it with success as also an Italian surgeon, Dr. Barbantini, who has published a pamphlet on the subject. On a reference to the anatomy of the parts con- cerned in this mode of operating, it is evident that the incision of the rectum does not encounter any blood Tessels or parts directly interesting to life; and the converging rami of the ischium oppose less resistance to the extraction of the stone, than when the opening into the bladder is made in the usual place, below the pubis where the space is more limited. The recto-vesical fistula presents the most valid objection to this method of operating either on the male or female. The female urethra will permit a more free motion of the sound when searching the bladder, than that of the male, which enables the surgeon to judge more correctly of the size, situation, and shape of the stone, and greatly tends to point out the most safe and easy method of extraction. For unless the stone be of such a size as to afford a prospect of passing through the meatus urinarius by simple dilatation, without the use of undue force, I should be induced to make a lateral division of the urethra, by means of the Bistouri Cach6; as an incontinence of urine is less likely123 to happen than after the urethra has been distended beyond its muscular power by artificial means. On reflection, it will appear evident that by making an effectual opening into the bladder, in a lateral direction with the gorget for the easy trans- mission of a large stone, there will be some risk of either cutting deep into the vagina, or dividmg the pudic artery on the left side ; in the first in- stance, an incontinence of urine will follow, and in the latter, the patient will be exposed to danger from hemorrhage ; to obviate these disastrous events, the use of a gorget constructed with a double cutting edge, by which the canal of the urethra may be equally divided transversely on both sides, will form a greater opening for the exit of the stone, leave the vagina untouched, and the pudical vessels exempt from injury. It is in reference to these parts, that the success attending the lateral operation on women chiefly consists : and it must be confessed, that there is al- ways difficulty in avoiding them when we are com- pelled to make an incision to a certain extent, sufficient for the admission of a large stone with facility and safety.124 ON THE METHOD OF USING THE BISTOURI CACHE ON WOMEN. The most safe and simple mode of extracting the stone from females, in almost all cases appears to me to be by the Bistouri Cache* which must be introduced shut along the urethra till the apex be fairly in the bladder. When the surgeon has found the stone with the point of the instrument, he inclines the blade a little obliquely down- wards, in a direction nearly parallel with the ramus of the left ischium, and with the thumb presses down the elevating part of the handle upon the head of the screw, which raises the blade out of the groove. Then pressing the back part of the bistouri against the pubis, he with- draws it in this direction, and completes the divi- sion of the parts to an extent sufficient to admit the mouths of the forceps, and to extract the * The Bistouri Cach6 may be made of any size proportioned to the age of the patient, and prior to its use, whether on the male or female. The surgeon should always adjust the screw which regulates the blade, so as to predetermine the extent of the intended incision in proportion to the age of the patient, and supposed magnitude of the stpne. r125 stone without lacerating or bruising the passage. This method of operating I have adopted on females, and it appears so manifestly simple, that it wholly supersedes the use of the sound, grooved staff, and gorget, and is less liable to expose the patient either to incontinence of urine, or fistulous opening of the vagina, than by the common mode of operating with the gorget. The vesico-vaginal fistulas and incontinence of urine incident to females subsequent to the use of the gorget in this operation, are always distressing to the patient, and troublesome to the surgeon. This is sufficient to inspire a dread of its use ; and the attempts made by the faculty to obviate so disastrous an occurrence, have in a great measure failed of effecting so desirable an end. The late Mr. Hey recommends a cylindrical piece of linen formed into a tent and introduced up the vagina, with a view of supporting the incised edges of the wound during the progress of the cure. With the same intention recourse may be had to the introduction of a canula fixed in the passage, made of elastic gum, and resem- bling in shape a clyster pipe, but somewhat thicker (if used on an adult.) This instrument I have likewise found occasionally useful when employed on men, during two or three days after the operation, or till the inflammation of the wound subside. It greatly facilitates the dis-126 charge of the urine or blood by dribbling through the tube, and thus prevents distention of the bladder and subsequent inflammation. The diversified alterations which the gorget has midergone at diflerent periods since its intro- duction into notice by Sir Caesar Hawkins, with the view of obviating certain difficulties attending its use, and the elaborate disquisitions by many modern surgeons, respecting its advantages com- pared with the knife are a sufficient apology for no- velty of invention.* On this subject I feel no in- clination to enter the list, particularly when so much has been advanced to so little purpose; for almost every young surgeon becomes wedded to the opinions and precepts advanced by the Pro- fessor, whose surgical and anatomical lectures he has attended ; no wonder, therefore, that such a discordancy of opinion and success should univer- sally prevail throughout the kingdom on this im- portant subject, when there are scarcely two Pro- fessors of surgery in the whole metropolis, who either use the same form of instrument, or operate exactly in the same way. The chief object to be attained in lithotomy, by whatever form of instrument it be accomplished. * For a circumstantial discussion of the comparative merit of the gorget and knife, I refer the reader to Mr. John Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 3. Part I. Quarto Edition.127 is to make the incision from its commencement in the integuments below the scrotum to its ter- mination below the anus, and through the inter- vening muscles, prostate gland, and neck of the bladder, to an extent proportioned to the size of the patient, and sufficiently to admit the forceps, and extraction of the stone without bruising or lacerating the contiguous parts. But this cannot be effected unless the whole of the incision be made more extensively than what most modern operators are in the habit of doing, and hence I am per- suaded, results the disparity of success. An ample division of the parts concerned in the operation always facilitates the extraction of the stone, discharge of urine, or blood, from the wound, prevents subsequent inflammation, and greatly expedites the patient's recovery. On comparing the cutting part of most gorgets now in use, with the extent of the prostate gland, from its apex to the base, where it surrounds the cervix vesicae, it will be evident that such con- struction is inadequate to effect a complete section of this organ even in its natural state; but when enlarged by disease, as it frequently is in calculous affections, such defect is still more manifest and the danger resulting is proportionably greater. Under such circumstances is it possible without incurring danger to the patient to extract a stone from the bladder, the dimensions of which, together with128 the blades-of the forceps far exceed that of the wound through whicli it should pass with freedom ? •I' have more than once seen great violence used m^^extracting the stone throngli an inadequate incision, and was present at an operation in St. 'Bartholomew's Hospital in London, where the opei*atorj used' istitill' force in extracting the ^tone,''that he wolild have fallen backwards had not been supported at the time by his assistants. •»It is easy to foretel the fate of a patient so unfor- tunately circumstanced'.' iliuom bnii 'Mom ' ^ These reflections are intended to lead surgeons ' to pause on the propriety of using the gorget, and to induce them to select an'instrument, (let its name be what it may,) which will invariably make a section of the prostate gland sufficiently ex^ tensive for the free extraction of the stone, without going beyond the limits of safety; for it should ialways be remembered, that the edge of the gorget can never be made to cut the substance of the gland freely, owing in part to its receding by the impulse bf the instrument, and leading the surgeon 'to suppose that he has completed a section of this organ, when in 'teality he has merely divided its It is'iHn^%^^mim^im§mmkUmngetiuHy should ever have beeh so Variously exercised in the construction of an instrument so diversified-iit its form as the gorget, particularly when intended129 to substitute mechanism for anatomical know^ ledge, or manual dexterity. This may be suf- ficiently exemplified by an inspection of the multiplicity of gorgets displayed at Savigneijs Surgeons' instrument maker, London. I acknowledge that an expert surgeon, well acquainted with anatomy, may perform this opera- tion with the gorget with safety, if the stone be small; but if its bulk equal that of a hen's egg, the wound will be obviously inadequate to admit the stone and mouth of the forceps without lace- rating the cervix visicae or w^ounding the adjacent parts. These accidents have been known to occur in the hands of surgeons of the first eminence, and on dissection after the patient's death; such disastrous events have been known to follow the use of this dangerous instrument more than any other. Some staff's are constructed with a stop at the termination of the groove, in order that the point of the gorget may not pass further into the bladder and do mischief. This contrivance will no doubt in ordinary cases answer the purpose for which it is intended; but if the bladder be collapsed and the stone fixed at its neck, I am appreheptsive that the gorget when passed on such a staff will only effect a partial division of the left portion of the .|land, and in such a position of the stone if .a B130 gorget be used with an open groove at its point and be pushed up to the hilt, as is usually done, it will be liable to transfix the posterior part of the bladder, penetrate the rectum and expose the patient to imminent danger; an accident which has occurred to lithotomists of the first celebrity.131 ON THE USE OF THE BISTOURI CACHE ON MEN. The instrument I have mostly used in litho- tomy is the Bistouri Cache of Frere Come, with an additional beak to prevent its injuring the bladder. I have operated on upwards of sixty pa- tients for the stone with this instrument (and the one hereafter mentioned as a substitute for the gorget) out of which number, only two have not survived the operation. Objections have been advanced by writers re- garding the simplicity and form of the bistouri, and manner of dividing the parts concerned in the operation. Truth, however, urges me to state, that 1 have neither found difficulty nor danger attend- ing its application; as the success I have ex- perienced will best decide. I have operated with it both on men and women, from little more than two years old, to upwards of seventy and extracted stones more than five ounces in weight. It will not then, I trust be hereafter said, that the bistouri cache is an instrument in any respect less eligible or safe than either the gorget or knife when used with judgment. The bistouri cache has also been objected to on132 the gtoiiiid of its being liable to wouvid the vesi= cul(E siminales, an imputation by no means tenable; for on a retrospective enquii-y, and examination into the reality of this alleged circumstance, from patients on whom I have operated, I have found neither impotcncy nor cdrophy of the testes to have occurred in auj^ sirigle instance. Allowing the seminal duct to be divided in the operation, either with the bistouri or other instrument, it is more than probable that it would heal along with the rest of the wound, and its functions be restored after the operation. And if the cells should be obliterated, 1 am induced to believe from obser- vation and facts recorded, that the seminal vessels on the opposite side being perfect, will alone be found adequate to supply the deficiency. Heister says, " though the vesiculae seminales may be, and very often are, wounded both in the Apparatus Minoi', and in the Lateral Operation, as Le Dran, and others have observed; yet it is not generally attended with any bad consequence^ as the parts readily heal up with the rest that are divided." Objections of this soi% relative to the use of the bistouri cache, appears to be merely founded on hypothetical principles unsupported by facts. A knowledge of the physiology of i\\e duplicate organs subservient to the secretion of semen and phenomena of generation, so wisely provided by133 hatilfe for perpetuating the species, warding o^F evil,., and supplying casual defects irresistibly lead us to this unquestionable deduction, that a tipado, or person with only one testicle, possesses the procreative power in a competent degree. Ji'or corroborative evidence on this subject, see Gordon Smith's valuable work on Forensic Medi- cine, page 447. Male on Juridical Medicine, second Edition, page *i55 and 278. Vaughan's Anatomy, Vol. II. page 153. Wilson's Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs, page 425, and Jones's Surgical Lectures, page 349. " One of the testicles, (says he) may be lost without producing any very perceptible effect upon the virile powers, though both, of course, will en- tirely destroy it. A curious case, illustrative of this, occurred in Guys Hospital some years ago."131 ON THE USE OF THE BEAKED LITHOTOMY KNIFE OR BISTOURY, AS REPRESENTED IN Plate I. Fig 2. Perceiving such a degree of prejudice to prevail among surgeons of the first eminence in favour of the gorget, and being myself fully con- vinced of its imperfections, I have invented a substitute which appears to combine in itself all the advantages of the Gorget, Knife, and prohe pointed Bistoury without their imperfections. When used as a gorget the surgeon will per- ceive its cutting edge to be so far elevated above the groove of the staff, that it makes its way through the prostatic part of the urethra into the bladder with greater facility and less danger to the patient than either the common gorget or bistoury; and on withdrawing it in a horizontal direction the section of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder may be extended to whatever space it may be judged requisite. I have operated with this instrument several times both on young and old subjects with perfect ease and success; and, from its simplicity and manner of dividing the necessary parts, I have little doubt but upon an impartial trial, it will be found hereafter to supercede every other instru- ment yet brought to notice.136 ON THE AFTER TREATMENT OF THE PATIENT. The primary objects of attention subsequent to iithotomy, are generally haemorrhage and inflam- mation, and these should be watched with great vigilance by the surgeon. The wound being dressed two or three times each day, in the way before directed, till the iur flammation subsides, and the urine begins to be discharged by the urethra, the surgeon should at frequent intervals inspect the state of the bladdei% and see that it does not become distended, for on this favourable sequel the fate of the patient frer quently depends. A low diet is to be adopted, and a cool apartment selected for the first six or eight days, and a stool should be procured by clyster the day after the operation, and purgatives be given at discretion. Notwithstanding the greatest precaution, unfavourable symptoms will occasionally occur, and the patient be assailed with restlessness, anxiety, quick pulse, thirst, pain and tension on the region of the bladder. On the approach of such symptoms every means of abating inflammation must be promptly pursued. The bowels should be immediatelyItiG emptied by a brisk purgative, and the patient iin- inerged to the neck in a warm bath for the space of half an hour, or till syncope appears ; and when taken out he should be placed in bed between blan- kets, and an anodyne sudoriftc draught be given to promote perspiration and rest. If, however, these means fail in subduing the inflammation, and pain and tension of the abdomen continue, it will be expedient to repeat the warm bath two or three times a day, together with bleeding both locally and generally. Blisters and fomentations of the abdomen, aided by the free use of emollient clys- ters and purgatives, must be assiduously em- ployed to repel the attack. On some occasions frequently bathing the w'ound and neighbouring parts with cold water may be useful, and tend to abate inflammation and prevent haemorrahage. In the treatment of patients subsequent to litho- tomy, the practitoner should bear in mind that a feeble pulse is a frequent attendant on all abdo- minal inflammations; and he ought not to be deterred from the use of the lancet, by such fallacious symptoms, but on all occasions keep in view the age and plethoric state of the pa- tient, and regulate the treatment accordingly; for in old emaciated subjects the antiphlogistic mode should be pursued with great caution, particularly after a tedious operation, lest the patient should sink from exhaustion^137 L(tD H;EMORRi*AiGE^r'Peritoneal Iriflammatiort? and *'ischuria Vesicalis, are the chief sources of dan- ger resulting from the operation of lithotomy. 1 Haemorrhage I consider a rare occurrence; as such incident has never happened in my practice,* though I often hear surgeons relating such events as not being unfrequent in their operations. This circumstance can only be attributed either to an ii«mproper mode of operation, or an ill constructed ^gorget in the hands of an unscientific practitioner, unless where there is an unusual distribution of .the vessels.ji-VaUt}-. c.wr.j>£iijq .'lo .i^iJ/.- -n: a. ^ The internah j7Mf7«V artery, and tha,t of? ihe hulb Of the urethra or body of the penis, 'jiiie each liable by inattention to be divided in the i*espec- ti<r^ stages of. the operation. The pudic artery ittiay be wound6d by the gorget being too broad in the cutting part, or directed too.much sideways towards the ramus of the left tuber ischii of the * I have never seen a patient exposed to dangier fi'dm fisemorrhage, nor have T had occasion to tie a vessel with a liga- ture, either dnring or after the operation in the last thirty eases iu which I have opmtedit . ' s /patient, and if turned much downwards the rec- tum will be in danger of being wounded. The division of this artery is always a formid- able accident, and has sometimes proved fatal. It may generally be secured by means of the needle and ligature after the stone has been extracted; but if this expedient fail, compression must be applied by inserting into the wound a canulafrom three to five inches in length, adapted to the size of the patient, and depth of UiP, wound; with a piece of dried sponge slightly tied round it so as to allow it to swell by imbibing moisture: thus serving to compress the divided ends of the vessel under the edge of the os ischii, while the tube may answer as a vehicle for the free discharge of the urine or blood which may have accumulated in the cavity of the bladder. The transversalis perinei is always divided in the operation, be- cause its course is directly across the perineum, and cannot escape the knife, and immediately on its division blood is profusely discharged ; but if the surgeon will pause a few seconds, the artery will retract among the cellular substance, and the haemorrhage cease spontaneously. Sometimes the arteries about the prostate gland are aug- mented by disease, and when divided the blood is apt to make its way into the bladder: this spe- cies of hsemorrhage is only discovered some hours after the operation by the patient appearmg rest-139 less and complaining of pain, and an inclination to pass urine, in which case, as well as on all other occasions where any vessel of importance has been wounded in the operation, the state of the bladder should be minutely investigated, and if any coagula be lodged therein, it should be evacuated by means either of the finger or scoop; and if the bleeding continue, recourse may be had to the application of the canula and sponge, by way of compression as before directed. In cases threatened with haemorrhage it may be advisable to apply cloths successively moistened in cold water, both to the wound and the genital parts, to abate the bleeding and check the tendency to inflammation.140 a case of lithotomy, attended with un- mUsual symptoms, to which is subjoined occasional remarks. In the year 1806, I was consulted by Richard Holden, of this neighbourhood, a stout, corpulent, robust man, then about 60 years of age, on account of great pain when passing his urine, accompanied with very frequent provocations to propel it. He informed me, that for some years past, he had occasionally discharged both blood and mucus from the urethra, and that any violent bodily ex- ercise was usually the forerunner of the former indication of calculous affection. These, together with other ordinary symptoms, led me to suspect a stone in the bladder, and I proposed passing a sound into that viscus, in order to determine the questioii. This proposal was, however, rejected, from an idea entertained by the patient of the pain, which the introduction of an instrument into the bladder, must unavoidably occasion. In this state of incertitude, my patient absented himself from me, and continued with frequent intermissions of pain till the sixth of November, 1811, a lapse of five years; when I was requested to visit him. On my arrival at his house, I M'as informed that141 he had not been able to evacuate his urine for nearly two preceeding days and nights. On laying my hand on the abdomen, the patient complained of a considerable degree of pain in the region of the bladder, which was accompanied with tension, and the scrotum and surrounding parts were of a dark lived colour. The catheter was immediately introduced, and my former opinion fully confirmed, by the point of the instrument striking against a stone ; which was notified by the sound emitted to the ear very distinctly. Nearly two quarts of dark coloured urine were drawn off, which afforded temporary relief; the warm bath was recommended, a laxative clyster was administered, and an aperient mixture directed to be taken in divided doses, which produced several copious evacuations by stool, reduced the tension, and considerably relieved the soreness of the abdomical region. Still the retention of urine continued, caused I apprehend from a calculus lodged in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder; for every time the catheter was passed, it was resisted by the presence of a stone, and little or no water could be extracted, without first pushing the point of the instrument against it, raising the stone from its situation, and keeping the catheter in this position till- the bladder was emptied. By this manceuvre the impediment was142 surmounted, and the urine evacuated once or twice every twelve hours, during several succeedinj? ^ays, by the use of the common silver catheter, until I prevailed on my patient to be removed to Blackburn, where I had an opportunity of paying more particular attention to the case. Soon after his arrival, I introduced a flexible metallic catheter into the bladder, fitted with a small cork to plug lip the end: the fore finger being passed up the rectum, served to bend the apex of the instrument behind the ach of the pubis, where it was per- manently fixed, so that he could remove the cork, and evacuate his urine, ad libitum. The use of the finger in the rectum, whilst passing the instrument, afforded me an oppor- tunity of ascertaining the morbid indurated state of the prostate gland, which was greatly en- larged, and in a very rigid condition* Not- * Tlie symptoms of stone in ll)e bladder, and a morbid con- dition of the prostate gland being in some respects similar, it is liighly necessary that the surgeon should invariably pass the finger up the rectum prior to the operation, and if the gland be enlarged, it will be discovered by this means with miich facility. By such timely investigation, the surgeon will bie governed in the various stages of the operation, and be enabled to form a pretty accurate idea of the determinate extent of the incision of the neck of the bladder and necessary distension of the blade of the bistouri cach^, prior to its introduction into the organ, pro- vided the surgeon uses this instrument. The presence of a stone in the bladder niav generally, bv143 withstaiKliug the antiphlogistic mode of treat- ment was rigourously adhered to, there remained a considerable degree of soreness on the region of the pubis, attended with quick pulse and fever, insomuch that I did nottlien propose the operation- of lithotomy, being aware of the consequences that might ensue from the attendant symptoms', excited by irritation, and the effects of calculi, on the coats of the bladder; nevertheless, the tension and soreness of the abdomen gradually abated, and the operation appeared admissible;* after being determined on, and the preparitory regimen adopted, 1 performed it on the 17th instant attention to the s^'mptoms, be distinguished from an irritable or indurated state of that viscus; for in the former affection, and during the discharge of urinei the pain increases at the glans- penis till the last drop is voided and subsides gradually; while in the latter case, relief is observed to take place in a reverse ratio,- for as soon as the water begins to flow the patient is some- what relieved, and when the whole is evacuated there is com- paratively little pain left, and the expansive functions of the bladder are sooner restored, * It does not appear from the result of practice, that simple irritation excited by calcuU in the bladder, is an insuperable ob- jection to lithotomy, when performed during an interval of cessation from pain ; but if there exist in the system any nephritic affection, or insidious morbid action lurking in any organ, either remotely or immediately essential to hfe, the danger becomes manifestly increased, and the operation should be undertaken with great caution, and deferred, if possible, till such symptoms, wholly cease, and the irritation of the system subside. /' 144 (November,) in the presence of two assisting surgeons and the necessary attendants. Tlie pa- tient being placed and secured in a horizontal po- sition upon a steady table of commodious height, and supported by pillows under the shoulders with the breach projecting a little over the edge of the table, the first stages of the operation were conducted in the usual manner, and with tolerable facility. On the membranous portion of the urethra being laid open with the scalpel to the commencement of the prostate gland, the beak of the bistouri cache was inserted into the groove of the staff, the handle of which was taken hold of with the left hand, and raised from the right groin of the patient to nearly a right angle with the body; the bistouri was then pushed gently for- wards into the bladder and the staff taken out; the cutting edge being raised from its sheath and turned rather laterally towards the left ischia of the pa- tient, it was withdrawn nearly in a horizontal direc- tion ; and in executing this step of the operation, I perceived an unusual resistance and grating, as if cutting through a cartilaginous substance. The fore finger of the left hand was now passed as high as possible into the bladder, through the opening made by the bistouri, ^and with difficulty the sm'face of a stone w^s felt; for, owing to the patient's state of corpulency, the cliief part of the hand became buried in the woiuid.145 TJie foi-Gops were then carefully introduGed by the side of the fingers, which served as a guide t& seize the stone in the bladder. The fingers being withdrawn, the stone was taken hold of by the blades; but from the great expansion of the handles, I was led to believe that the calculus was either very large, or otherwise seized in an un- favourable direction. To ascertain the fact, I endeavoured to reach the stone, by insinuating the finger betwixt the extended blades of the forceps, l)ut -was prevented by the bulk of the prostate gland ; for it appeared to occupy so con- siderable a space, that its extent could not be wholly traced by the ftnger in any direction. I therefore judged it expedient to quit the stone, and attempt to seize it in a less diameter, and after using every possible means in my power, I was obliged to abandon this project; and the extent and rigidity of the prostate, and its unyielding structure, induced me to enlarge the incision. On .every attempt to extract the stone, the body of the gland was brought forwards into sight, and ^appeared to completely wedge up the space betwixt the two I'ami ischii. Thus situated, and while the left hand \vas employed in drawing for- wards the forceps along witii thie stone, the right was engaged in dilating* the wound with the * Though in lliis instaiice, the iiiuision made by the bistouri cacl^e was inadequate to etfect a complete division of the prostateI ' }46 scalpol, ill a line with Die external incision, where the resistance opposed the greatest obst^le; in this manner sufficient room was made, and the transmission of the stone effected. It was of an oval shape, and its long diameter 2.25, and its short 1.75 inches. A female sound was then passed into the bladder, and another stone de- tected larger than tlie first, and which was ex- tracted with proportionate difficulty. It was also oval, but measured 2.6 inches one way, and 2.1 the other. From the different situations in which I had an opportunity of recognising the prostate gland of this patient, both by the finger passed up the rectum, and through the v^ourid in perineo, its lateral lobes evidently pressed considerably on the rectum, and appeared the shape and size of the gizzard of a goose. Several arteries were divided in the operation, wliich required the ligature, and there remained a considerable oozing of blood, which appeared to come from the divided edges gland, to afford the stone a free exit; yet its extent was far greater than what could )je made with the gorget; hence may be seen the advantage which the bistouri possesses over tiie gorget; for the surgeon has it in his power to adapt the blade of the bistouri to the exigency of every individual case, prior to its introduction into the bladder, and should; the stone be found either of unusual magnitude, or less than what was suspected prior to commencing the operation, the screw of the handle may be elevated or depressed whilst the apex is in the bladder, and the cutting edge regulated to any given extent.147 pf the prostate gland: to suppress which a canula, >yith a'piece of sponge Nvrapped round it, was in- tnjoduced into the wound, and by its pressure on the incised portions of the gland, prevented the blood from making its way into the bladder, and soon stopped the bleeding. - -n <'.,T J hoii'> A plaster of lint, spread with cerate, was applied to the wound; the patient was then conveyed to l)ed, and his knees brought together, and secured by means of a tape passed round his thighs. A draught composed of sixty drops of Tinpt Opii .>vas administered, and the patient left to take repose. On calling in the evening I was informed tliat the medicine had not produced sleep; he appeared restless, with quick pulse. There Avas no tension or pain about the region of the bladder, nor any haemorrhage from the wound, and the urine passed guttatim through tlie canula without interruption,,! vv-o A warm bath was immediately procured in the room, into which he was put, and remained twenty fiVe minutes, which afforded some temporary jreli'ef, without producing syncope Or diminishing the vibrating force of artei'ial action. After being removed to bed, the opiate draught was repeated, but did not induce the least inclinations to sleep the whole of the night. In the morning the canula was removed and the woimd dressed us before. A,saline mixture with' 148 antiinoiiial uiiic was directed, an aperient clysl^t- administered for sevel-al succeeding days, and occasional purgatives exhibited to stimulate the torpid action of the intestines, all which pro^ dnced their medicinal effects. The warm bath ' was repeated twice every twenty-four hours for ten days successively, and the antiphlogistic plan strictly enjoined till the symptoms of fever and irritation subsided^ On the 20th instantj three days after the oper- atiouj a degree of soreness and tension manifested itself in the lower part of the abdomen, which extended along the urethra, and assumed the appearance of peritoneal inflammation. But on ia minute investigation, I was convinced that the tension, of the abdomen was caused by the parts of the wound connected with the oi3€ration being distended with inflammation, which wholly prevented the evacuation of the bladder, and the voluntary power of the abdominal muscles from propelling the urine through the aperture.* With- .j#!!ram induced to believe, that Ischuria Fesicalis, svthsequeui to the operation of lithotomy, i? not a very rare occurrence, but is frequently the primary cause of Peritoneal Inflararaatiou, though scarcely noticed by authors who have > tvritlen; on the after- treatment of patients. As the symptoms at first view bear much analogy to each other, it is incumbent on the surgeon, in every iristatice of abdominal atTection to inveotigate the state of the bladder, and witness the discharge of urine, either fiom the149 out hesiUition, 1 passed a female catheter up the wound in perineo into the cavity of the bladder, and evacuated more than a quart of limpid urine, of healthy appearance. This mode of assistino^ nature in relieving herself, was found necessary to be repeated every eight or ten hours for several succeeding days, until the tension and inflamma- tion of the parts connected with the woUnd had subsided; after which the urine passed through the artificial aperture with comparative freedom. About three weeks from the time of the operation, a little urine made its way, at intervals, by the channel of the urethra, and the man seemed gradually recovering, when suddenly a niew train of symptoms came on, accompanied with in- flammation and swelling of the right testicle, attended with violent obtuse pain, which pro- duced a slight degree of fever and constitutional irritation of the system. Ten leeches were 'ap'-i wound, or by the urethra. By this mode of enquiry, thfe morbid retention of urine may be distinguished from abdominal inflam- mation,: and if no urine has passed by either of these apertures, a female catheter should be introduced through the wound into the bladder and the water evacuated, by which means the* symptoms will subside, and by omitting this mode of relief^T inflammation of tlie abdominal viscera and bladder would inevi.-? tably follow,/and there is reason to believe, that serious eflPects have sometimes (ensued from this species of retention of urine^ being overlooked;150 plied to the inflamed sciotunj, and cloths moist- ened in a solution of ammonia muriala iw vinegar and water were kej)t constantly applied to the affected part; a brisk purgative draught w^ai^i, ad- ministered, and a scanty regimen enjoined(,:i,yet every precaution used to disperse the swelling and inflammation proved unavailing, and sup- puration was announced by frequent i igors, and the structure of the testicle becoming less tense and more swelled. A poultice was then applied, and renewed three times a day, till a fluctuation pf matter became perceptible, which was let out through an opening made with a lancet; the part soon healed, and the tension of the testicle gra- dually subsided ; soon after which the left testicle became enlarged and painful, and assumed one smooth tense substance. jj.jLeeches, and other topical applications w^re assiduously applied, as in the former affection, and a mixture apparently of puss and urine, w as regurgitated* by the urethra, which continued for * Tills affection of the testes I conceive to be a rare occur- rence, as I find no such incident mentioned by writer? on lithotomy. It is not improbable that some irregular particles of calculi might produce the iriflamima^^^^^ ge"iug entangled behind the vcru montanum^ oljlife^^^^^ cffifices bf th^ seminal ducts, and excite irritation of ihie conii'guouS parts, or the vas deferens might participate tliercwith, aud ilie inflanunation be cpnimunicated to the testes, and cause a retrocession of tlie niatlor trom the tcstide 'to'tlie iii^^^ '151 the course of eiglit or ten days, when the inflam- nmtion and swelling- gradually disappeared. From this period, the wound assumed a granu- lating and healthy appearance, and the urine was voided voluntarily through the urethra in increased quantity; in the space often weeks, from the time of the operation, the wound was completely healed, and the man retnrned home in a state of apparent good health, being able to retain his urine in considerable quantity, and propel it at pleasure. On a minute examination of the state of the prostate gland at this period, by the finger in ano, its size appeared very much diminished from what it was prior to the operation.* This man lived many years after the operation, during which period he enjoyed a tolerable state of health though the pre-disposition to the formation of stone still existed in the system ; for he informed me that he had passed two small calculi by the urethra, and his urine was mixed with sabulous matter. * It is very probable, that if the gorget had been used in this case, it would not have divided more than half of the left portion of the prostate gland, consequently the incision must have been quite inadequate for the free extraction of the stone, and pro- bably too small to admit the blades of the forceps without miicli violence; and owing to the indurated structure of the gland opposing sucli a degree of resistance to its introduction into the bladder, it is very Hkely that, during the attempt to accohiplish this step of the operation, the prostate gland must have been severed from its connection with the membranous portion of the urethra, and the posterior part of the bladder become iransiixcd.152 A CASE OF LITHOTOMY ON A FEMALE, COMPLI- CATED WITH PROCIDEN'J lA UTERI, PROCIDENTIA VESICAE, AND INVERTED VAGINA. Mary Barnhill, aged 52, an inhabitant of Blackburn, is the subject of this interesthig case. In the 24th year of her age, she bore an illegitimate child at the full period of gestation, about 32 years ago ; and whether to impute the cause of her affliction, which commenced soon after de- livery, to some improper interference of the attending accoucheur during that process, or to a relaxed state of the ligaments of the uterus, it is not at this remote period easy to determine ; more particularly, as this part of the history of the ex- isting malady, is taken from the woman's own narrative. She states, that a few days after labour, she was seized with a painful pressing sensation about the groins, w^hich eventually produced a tumour that descended through the vagina, and appeared protruded at the external parts, and kept advancing downwards between the thighs and increasing in- size, without interruption, to nearly the dimensions of the annexed Plate, in less than two years subsequent to the time of parturition.153 The structure and size of this tumour, together with the appearance of the rugae of the vagina, on its external surface, and the menstrual discharge issuing periodically, from the os uteri, at its depen- dant part, in a few months after delivery, incon- trovertibly demonstrated this to be a complete prolapsus, or procidentia uteri, vesicae, and inverted vagina. During the early stages of the descent of these viscera, they were accompanied with very con- siderable vmeasiness, and irritation about the meatus urinarius, and hypogastric region, resem- bling stranguary; with a frequent propensity to void the urine, which involuntarily flowed over the exposed surface of the tumour, and a discharge of viscid mucus exuded from under the Labia Pu- dendi, that produced a considerable degree of suf- fering and excoriation for the space of four or five years. After this period the secretions gradually abated, and the whole exterior of the Procidentia began to lose its florid hue, and soon acquired the appearance and structure of perfect cuticle, which has remained to the present time with occasional, though trifling, abrasion. It is somewhat remark- able, that she lingered for the space of seven years in this state, without consulting any medical pracr titioner; though she attended to her domestic con. cerns during this interval, with occasional interrup- u154 tionjr of painful indisposition. After tliis lapse of time, she applied to an eminent surgeon of this town, who made several fruitless attempts to reduce the protruded parts, but the length of time since their descent, together with the magnitude of the tu- mour, rendered it wholly impracticable. These inefficient endeavours occasioned much pain to the woman, and excited a degree of inflammation which caused a return of the exudation of mucus on the external part of the tumour, and a slight denudation of the recently formed cuticle; notwith- standing which breach of surface, the ulceration soon healed, and acquired its former colour, and has continued so to the present period. About twelve years ago, (though strange to relate) she entered into the matrimonial state with her pre- sent husband, James Barnhill, from which period she dates the origin of her calculous affections, and has at different times passed a number of small calculi from the urethra, to the amount of many hundred, some of which have been pre- served, and are now in my possession; and what is rather remarkable, on a minute inspection, many of these calculi bear a great affinity in figure to those that were extracted by the operation, and which are of the Tetraedron form, with triangular, pyramidal, and equilateral faces. I was first called to this patient on the 28th of155 December, 1813, and on enquiry, found her in a state of great pain and misery, apparently occa- sioned by calculous irritation about the meatus urinarius. She appeared at first averse to my inspecting the parts, or making any manual at- tempts to mitigate her sufferings; but on reasoning with her on the necessity of introducing the sound or catheter into the bladder, she yielded to my request; and on placing her horizontally on thd side of the bed, and the parts being exposed to view, (not being in the least previously ac- quainted with the state and nature of the case) \ was not a little surprised to perceive a pendulous tumour projecting from the vulva, and suspended to the middle of the thighs, the bulk of which appeared equal to an ordinary sized melon, of an oval shape, suspended at the labia, and so closely attached, that there was no space by which the finger or probe could be introduced, and the tumour caused a disagreeable straddhng when the woman walked. After making several attempts to introduce the female catheter into the urethra, 1 founds its point would not pass under the arch of the symphysis pubis, as in the usual way, I then took hold of the tumour, which felt elastic, and by gently pressing it between both bands, a sensation was communicated to the touch, which hift no doubt on -my mind, of thei5r> presence of a numljer of calculi , contained in tlie cyst.; This circumstance led me to pursue a con- trary route, by introducing the point of a male sound into the orifice of the urethra, with the convex part directed towards the pubis; by which manoeuvre, I easily succeeded in passing it down into the bladder, which viscus I ascertained was enveloped within the cavity of the vagina and uterus, and had formed a cul de sac. By making a gentle varied motion of the sound, I was able to identify the stones, and coivld also press the point of the instrument against the interior and anterior part of the cavity, so that its point was distinctly perceived through the parietes of the bladder and uterus, which organs seemed in close contact with each other. n aibtis ./ilBoihii? <*; iFrom the present position, and the appearance of the organs connected with the prolapsus, and the narration of the patient herself, it appeared that the uterus and vagina were first propelled down- wards from their natural situations ; and by some unknown and adverse circumstance, had thus formed a receptacle OM^ of the body for the ad^ mission of the bladder and its contents. From the symptoms accompanying the early state of the disease^ it is not very improbable that the weight of the stones had facilitated in some de- gree the descent of this viscus, the cavity of which157 . contained the urine, and which passed guUuttm involuntarily by the meatus nrinarius in a retro-* grade direction, and spread over the exposed surface of the tumour. On attentively examining the situation and cavity of the bladder within the uterus, by means of the sound, when introduced as before stated, I was enabled to perceive that the bladder did not descend quite to the bottom of the uterus. In order more fully to ascertain this circumstance, I passed a probe nearly two inches up the os uteri at the bottom of the tumour, and distinctly felt the fundus of the bladder contained within the cavity. The dimensions of the Procidentia taken prior to the operation, were nine inches longi- tudinally, and in circumference fifteen. rrOn the iist<« of January, 1814, and three days a#er first detecting the stone in the bladder and receptacles before mentioned, I undertook the ope- ration, in the presence of Dr. Chew, then of Pres- ton;iibut now of this town, and my pupil, Mr. Meahley. After having placed the woman in a convenient situatioB, I; began the operation by making a longitudinal incision of rather more than three inches in extent, commencing about the same distance below the meatus urinarius on the anterior part of the prolapsed tumour, and by a few gentle strokes with the scalpel, the bladder158 came in view, and the muscular fibres rather receding before the edge of the knife, induced me to make a small puncture at tlie upper part of the wound, through the parietes of this viscus, from which flowed a portion of urine. By dividing the bladder with a probe pointed bistoury down- wards to the corresponding extent of the incision of the uterus, I M'as enabled to pass the fore- finger of the left hand into the cyst, wherein the stones were lodged; along which I conducted a small pair of forceps, and in the space of a few minutes extracted ten stones, all of which, ex- cept one, were alike, both in size and form; pre^ senting a peculiar porcelain polish, with their triangles as neatly rounded off, as if executed by an artist. .i/There was scarcely any blood lost during the operation; nor did the woman appear to suffer much pain. ^' lisBefore the wound was closed, I was anxious to ascertain whether the uterus and bladder by their long contact had become united by the adhesive process of nature; and on attempting to insinuate the point of the probe by the wound betwixt the edges of the incised organs, they appeared to have formed so complete a coalescence, that it became quite impracticable to effect a separation at any part of the incision.169 After the stones were extracted, a canula was introduced, and fixed in the wound by means of the T bandage, made of narrow tape for the pur- pose of conveying the urine over the lower part of the tumour, to prevent excoriation. At the end of three days after the operation, the instru- ment was taken out, and granulations were ob- served to shoot from the edges of the wound. A pledget of lint spread with cerate was applied occasionally on the part, and on the 11th day subsequent to the operation, the woman walked down stairs, and in part pursued her domestic affairs.;J1 inii.. ^)l f.-M-it] • (■< , ;• ,iXhe orifice kept gradually diminishing by means of the granulating process, and the urine be- came in part evacuated by the meatus urinarius and the opening of the wound, till it was healed, which was completed in the space of two months from the time of the operation. The prolapsed tumour varied in size at different times on being measured subsequent to the operation, owing to the quantity of urine con- tained in the cyst. The dimensions at present are 14 inches in circumference, and 6|- longitu- dinally from the meatus urinarius to a little below the OS uteri, near the pendent part of the pro- lapsus. ,-jjj \ iji It is worthy of observation, that I had frequent16() opportunities after the operation of witnessing tlie menstrual evacuation from the os uteri at the bot- tom of the tumour, which evacuation has been natural and periodical, with few interruptions from the above mentioned event, till the usual period of their cessation; during which interval no calculi have been formed in the urinary cyst, and the woman now enjoys a good state of health.161 I A CASE or TUMOUR ON THE NOSE, WITH PHYSIOLOGICAL REMARKS, - The peculiar character of this anomalous af- fection, together with some preliminary observa^ tions on the physiology of tumours in general, on the difficulty attendant on their classification, and on their affinity to certain protuberances observable on the bark and leaves of trees, may not be unacceptable to the reader. These hints may probably suggest an enquiry into the analogy which exists between the animal and vegetable kingdoms, in the production and structure of su-r perfluous parts, and be the means of instituting a more rational mode of treating such morbid affec- tions, than what at present is adopted amongst practitioners of surgery. The structure of tumours is so diversified, that no true outline can easily be formed to aaeist tjie nosologist to arrange them with precision into distinct geneia and species; nor do such at- tempts to form a systematic classification appeap1C2 to me either useful or practicable. Their pro- duction is effected by the various actions and secretions of the superabundant particles in the circulating vessels, which become deposited, and form organized tumours from which no part of the body is altogether exempt. Under such varieties of diseased structure, how can these affections be possibly defined and systematically arranged, when they depend on so many incidental changes, and where every stage of morbid depo- sition must furnish collateral distinctions ? The painter, when engaged to produce a pic- ture, may possess such skill and acquaintance with his art, that the colouring may be appro- priate, the shading correct, and the piece display unquestionable proof of talent: yet if that essen- tial property, the likeness of its object be wanting, whatever are the advantages of light in which it is displayed, the value of the painting lessens as we contemplate it. Equally questionable appears to be the exercise of genius displayed by nosological authors, in the artificial arrangement and classification of tumours, as in many other cor- poreal diseases. It is nevertheless to be acknowledged, that the subject has been lately discussed with ability by Mr. John Bell and Mr. Abernethy ; yet the nature and treatment of tumours appear still involved in163 much obscurity, as the latter-mentioned author confesses in his observations on this disease ; and in which he seems also to lament the want of a systematic arrangement of these morbid affections. " If an arrangement (says Mr. Abernethy*) of tumours was once made, so that the history of each species could be particularly marked, we might perhaps be able, from this circumstance, to form a probable opinion of the nature of the tumour, 3ind of the mode of treatment which it would require." Here then we may pause, while so able a phy- siologist is left to doubt on the possibility of clas- sification. Hence I am disposed to believe, that the distinguishing characters of most tumours are so equivocal in their nature and structure, that they can only be determined and arrested in their pro- gress by an attentive observation of their situation, texture and symptoms; consequently any mode of treatment founded on mere classification must be precarious and uncertain. Thus situated, let us then seek for information by an observance of the physiological analogy which exists between the exuberances in the vege- table, and those of the animal kingdom, and en- * Mr. Abernethy, in his work on tumours abotc alluded to, has nevertheless aUcrapted a tlassificalion.164 deiivoiir, if possible, to acquire from thence a mioi e rational and correct mode of treating this disease, than what the present province of surgery has hitherto offered. Whoever surveys the structure and functions of the animal and vegetable creation, will find a much greater and nearer resemblance than at first would appear to be the case; for if we look at the stamina of plants, they will be found to con- sist, of fine capillary tubes, which run parallel with each other, and the bark of trees is double, like the skin of animals. On viewing the interior parts, there will be found distributed the paren- chymous, resembling the fibrous, and in the centre the pith or medullary substance, as also air vessels, lymphatics and lacteals. On a retrospective view of the great difficulty of exactly ascertaining the respective boundaries which appear to separate the animal fi'om the vegetable kingdom, and considering the unifor- mity of the structure and functions of the relative orgajis destined for nourishment and growth, from their infant state to the period of old age and decay, it will appear evident from such research, that both these departments of natuce are influ- enced by similar laws ; and that the Deity, in the exercise of his agency, has been governed by the same model in each system.165 'It is a fact known to physiologists, that the animal and vegetable actions are supported and carried on by a process of living and active vessels not very dissimilar from each other; consequently we occasionally witness monstrosities and^defor- mities in each kingdom, while the different states of infancy, maturity, and decay, are marked with as much seeming regularity in vegetables as in the most perfect animals. A plant can no more live without leaves and air vessels, than an animal without cuticle and lungs* Is not then the mo- tion of the sap in plants like that of the blood in animalS) produced chiefly by the action of atmos- pheric air, combined with external heat? The deformities we behold in vegetables can frequently be traced to some accident, or chemical fault in the soil; and those preternatural deviations from nature belonging to the human subject may not unaptly be exemplified by the analogy of the vegetable kingdom, in the process of healing of wounds in trees, &c. &c. We have many important facts to corroborate this opinion, which shew that the fibres and vessels of animals and vegetables are possessed of a won- derful capacity of expanding and inosculating themselves into each other, of carrying on a reci- procal circulation and becoming endued with the power of either restoring lost parts, or causing166 supernumerary ones; to this degree of redundant fluid circulating in the vascular system, may be ascribed the production of tumours on animals, and like deformities on plants; and by a similar process of the functions of vegetable action, buds and branches or shoots of one tree may be implanted into another by grafting or innoculation, the fibres of which are insinuated and incorporated into those of the original stock, so that they form only one being; if <Ui6 ti a .> * ^ ; . A In like manner fi-actured bones are united, arid the sutures of the infant's skull and epiphysis of bones become totally obliterated in advanced age, and every breach of parts, whether in the vegeta- ble" Ot animal systeria, is repaired by the same inherent process of living inosculating action. The mortality of plants, is chiefly caused by incidental circumstances, as there internal diseases are always few, when compared with their external ones, which is reversed in animals, and are unavoidably more exposed to the vicissitudes and inclemency of the seasons, and depredations and devastations of noxious animals, than man. Some species of plants, as well as animals, possess the power of acquiring longevity to a certain degree, to which nature has limited others, and though the prophylactic means in each king- dom of nature are not very dissimilar, and may be167 used with advantage in various vicissitudes of morbid condition, yet all must eventually give way to time. Let us, however, for a moment compare the faculty of regeneration and self-preservation which vegetables possess with those of man, and the superiority of the former will be easily perceived. It is manifestly evident that vegetables suffer great violence and destruction of parts with ap- parent impunity. The inherent power which they possess of cicatrizing wounds made in the bark of trees, and restoring branches lost from various causes, is so certain and wonderful as to inducei us to believe that there is scarcely any bounds prescribed by nature to this living and almost inexhaustible faculty of reproduction. But the human species, though at the head of the creation, is not indued with such efficient influence to the same extent. !■ ^ . : , v : r i By a wise and immutable law of nature (though to us mysterious) our animal economy is so cour stituted that our constant wants and necessities require perpetual supplies, and in many cases rendered greater by the depravation of our nature, subject us to many physical evils, dispose us to various diseases, and cause us to be in some points of view less capable of self-preservation than the vegetable tribes around us. Though this is appaTrently humiliating- still there exists an analogy in respect to growth, so that the occasional excre- scences of trees, and the preternatural tumours sometimes formed on the human body are pro- duced and generated by a vital action in both cases similar. When a plant, for instance, is wounded by some external cause, there tak«e place a copious ex- udation of lymph from the wounded part ; and if the injury be not mortal, granulations shoot out from the surrounding vessels, the part becomes healed, and a cicatrix is formed, similar to what takes place in the bodies of animals. Little as these crude remarks may appear to possess, either of novelty or interest, yet if we take a glance at the organization of the lower order of the living system of nature, and compare the simple with the more complicated and exalted animals, we shall invariably find the wants of the former more limited and supplied with greater facility than the latter. It will appear useless in this place to enter into an enquiry respecting the functions and economy of organized beings in general; suffice it to say, that all the varied actions of the animal and vege- table creation may be referable to some physical law\ Hence it follows, that there is no apparent distinction between the natural and unnaturalU)i) process of vascular action of the living system except in degree; for the deposition of the coa- gulable part of the blood, whether caused by ac- cident or an undue excitement of inflammatory and morbid action, either of the whole or part of the circulating system, or by a rupture of the lymphatic vessels, may, if not taken up in time by the absorbents, be the primary cause of the pro- duction of tumours distinguished by various ap- pellations : and in this manner it is presumed all animal and vegetable monstrosities and irregulari- ties of structure, are generated. Such, for instance, are warts, corns, wens, nodes, and gailie-quercus. These varieties of diseased structure, appears too ambiguous in their nature to admit of any regular classification, and consequently can lead to no systematic method of surgical treatment, founded on such hypothesis. , - Un*? ♦•Uirin- The excrescences of plants most certainly bear a near relation to the phenomena and growth of tumours on the human body, and a minute atten- tion to the treatment of diseased structure in vege- tables, may enable the surgical enquirer to insti- tute a more rational and scientific mode of treating tumours of the human body. It is worthy of remark, that in the economy of tumours they rarely continue in an insulated state for any considerable length of time, but by ac- Y170 cflerated artPiial action, and a tardy disposition of the absorbents, they perpetuate their growth when uninterrupted by surgical aid, as long as the system to which they are connected, yields them support. This observation will also apply generally to vegetable exuberances. . It is evidently the nature of all morbid pheno- mena to be liable to a change of structure, thus a tumour when bearing in itself no appearance of malignity in its primary state, will eventually as- sume a more formidable and alarming aspect; and. if its removal be too long delayed, will often prove a source of regret to the patient, whilst he, on the one hand, from motives of timidity, and the surgeon on the other, through a mistaken fear of risking his reputation by the hazard of an operation, lulls the patient into a state of supineness: thus they implicitly conspire to deceive each other from day to day, during which time, their minds are agitated by a succession of alternate hopes and fears, till by the slow, but unnoticed lapse of time, the disease becomes inveterate and incur- able. This lamentable effect of surgical procras- tination 1 have witnessed in a great variety of instances. Mr. Blakey, a respectable schoolmaster of this town, (Blackburn,) consulted me respecting a morbid rubicund tumour seated on his nose, which171 had been increasing in size for the space of thirteen years. He informed me, that he had consulted several eminent surgeons on the propriety of its behig extirpated; none of whom seemed desirous of undertaking such an hazardous operation lest a fatal haemorrhage might ensue. The tumour extended from tlie superior part of the nose over the alcB nasi and apex on both sides down to the lower part of the upper lip to such an extent, that the nostrils and mouth were nearly closed, and when laid down to sleep his breathing was greatly obstructed, unless the tumour was supported by a folding of the pillow placed under it; and when attempting to drink, it became in part immersed in the liquid unless it was raised by the hand. At the lower part of the tumour, rather parallel with the septum narium, the cuticular surface of one projecting tubercle was excoriated, from which there was an offensive exudation. I was informed that about six years prior to this time, an irregular surgeon removed a large and troublesome tubercle from near the left al(E by means of a ligature, an operation which proved both tedious and painful. On deliberate consideration, I was induced to propose a total eradication of this disgusting ex-172 cresceiice hy ineaus ol" the scalpel, to wijit h rny patient readily assented. On the gentleman being seated steadily on a chair, and keeping the natural figure of the nose in my mind, I began the dissection at the superior part of the tumour, as high as the dorsal arch, continuing the incision along the alae down to the apex on both sides, close to the periosteum and perichondrium, steadily pursuing this project till the whole of the morbid mass was eradicated. The operation did not occupy much time, nor did my patient complain of the least pain during the removal of the tumour. The wound was allowed to bleed without interruption, and after the lapse of a few minutes the haemorrhage ceased except in one small artery, which was easily checked; and this circumstance of no supervening bleeding (which had been dreaded by other sur- geons) taking place, together with the success of the operation, I am disposed to attribute solely to the tumour being disparted so closely to the cartilage of the nose. The whole surface of the sore was completely healed in three weeks, and no traces of the cicatrix could be observed, unless by a very near and minute inspection. This anomalous tumour, on dissection, exhi- bited a vascular appearance, and assumed a deep red and livid hue, and its structure did not cor-173 refijiond in appearance with any distinct species of tumour which I had seen described by authors. The annexed plate will furnish the reader with an accurate drawing from life, of the size and figure of the tumour prior to its removal; and also of the benefit which Mr. Blakey derived from the operation. See PlateS[~V. Fig. 1 and 2. Since the above-mentioned operation on Mr. Blakey, I have extirpated three tumours of a similar description; and with the same favour- able result in each instance; one from Mr. Hardy Measure, of Spalding, in Lincolnshire, another from Mr. Riding, of Mai ham, Yorkshire, and the third from Mr. Charles Robinson, Timber-mer- chant, of Hull. This latter gentleman informs me, he is now in the fifty-ninth year of his age, and that it is upwards of thirty years since the com- mencement of the disease. Though the nature of the tumour appeared the same in all the instances, yet there was more haemorrhage during the oper- ation in Mr. C. Robinson's case, than any of the former, and the morbid structure had become so firm, that its removal could scarcely be effected either by the scalpel or scissars. It is now three weeks since the operation, and the cicatrization of the part is nearly completed. It may be necessary to remark, that the ap- pearance of the new cuticle so nearly resembles174 that of the adjacent parts in all the cases, that it is scarcely discernible, and a reference to Plate V. Fig. 1 and 2, will shew the advantage which Mr. C. Robhison has experienced from the extir- pation of the protuberance. Fortunately this description of tumour is com- paratively a rare occurrence, as I have only met with two similar cases recorded by surgical authors. * * See Key's Surgery, and the New Progress of Surgery in France, by Delonnes4X)rawn By Ja* Slice. Blacltburn.. Engravecibv Ja*Parry, ManchcKtcr.175 ON MIDWIFERY. AN ENQUIRY INTO THE VARIOUS OPINIONS AD- VANCED BY WRITERS ON MIDWIFERY, RESPECT- ING THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PLACENTA. On taking a retrospective view of the progres- sive state of the obstertic art, from the time of Hippocrates, the father of Physic, to the present age, it appears that there has been a consider- able diversity of opinion adopted respecting the most eligible method of removing a retained pla- centa from the uterus, when connected with hsemorrhage and consequent difficulties. The hope of instituting a more uniform and judicious mode of practice on this branch of parturition, has induced me to collect into a narrow compass, the different opinions and precepts, handed down to us, from the infancy of the obstetric art; in order that the accoucheur may be enabled to investigate the subject more minutely and with greater ad- vantage, than by tedious research amongst authors, many of whom are now become obsolete. The17 a records of midwifery exhibit to the reader tliree diftereiit opinions, respecting the present question: one advising invariably, manual extraction im- mediately after the birth of the child; while another relies wliolly on the expulsive efforts of nature, and a third pursues a middle course. Those authors who have attempted to harmo- nise these discoi'dant modes of practice appear to have too much generalized their precepts, and omitted drawing a line of distinction sufficiently explicit, between cases of Abortion, and the par- turient process after the full period of gestation, as well as in other incidental instances: for the manual extraction of the placenta is in importance ecjual to that of parturition itself. Hence it appears probable, that these different modes of proceeding have been implicitly adopted from one age to another, without a sufficient in- vestigation of the respective views and principles on which they are founded. It is not therefore surprising, that there should be such diversities of opinion on the subject, nor can we wonder at the varied result of modern practice. In every civilized country on the face of the globe with which we are acquainted, the parturient state of woman excites a high degree of sympathy and commiseration ; and as luxury and refinement have spread their baneful influence amongst so-177 ciety, this mutual sensibility l»as proportionately increased ; and diseases have become multiplied* and morbid predispositions propagated through all ranks of civilized society. The pains of labour appear to be commensurate with the deterioration to which civilized communities are subject. The obscurity which hangs over the history of the first birth, leaves the medical enquirer to mere conjecture respecting the method adopted with regard to the placenta in the case of the first offspring and during the antediluvian ages; and were it possible to discover this, such research would not satisfactorily elucidate the present sub- ject. For as the first woman existed in a state of uncorrupted simplicity, it is reasonable to conclude that little or no manual assistance for the extrac- tion of the secundines was necessary ; and if the human race had continued in its primitive state, it is very probable that there would have required no other aid for the expelling of the placenta than what is natural to the inferior species of the animal creation. Hence we might on a slight view of the subject * It is a remarkable fact and should not be overlooked, that there have been no bodily deformities observed among the native Indians of North America ; and also that fevers constitute the only diseases of importance to which they are liable. Vide Dr. Rush's Medical Inquiries, Vol. I. Z178 be led to conclude, that no difficnlty or dangrr would result from its retention ; since quadrupeds approach nearer to a state of nature than the human species. Yet on a more careful attention to their wants and afflictions in the various stages of their partiu'ition, we shall find them occasionally involved in difficulties arid dangers, proportioned to their respective habits and state of domestica- tion, perhaps in a degree similar though not equal to what has fallen to the lot of woman.* Partu- rition in the most remote and simple ages of all nations appears to have been performed chiefly by nature, and we read of only two women who died in laboui' in the whole Jewish history. How widely different is the event of labour at the pre- sent day, when contrasted with the success of former times, though aided by the advancement of modern improvements in the art ! The female of every order of animals in a state of gestation, is possessed of an umbilical cord, and placenta, or substance analogous thereto: and it •!^-'i.{qi.. !H>!ii iji.r jHij no tiu:hii-)»t< * This circumstance is illustrated in Scripture by the diffe- renoe which the Egyptian Midwives observed between those females that belonged to the Court of Pharaoh, and the Israelitish women in a state of bondage ; and it is a lasting testimony to their honour and humanity displayed on this peculiar occasion; and particularly at that early period when women were the only practitioners who exercised this art among the Hebrews. See Exodus, Chap. I.179 is a fact worthy of notice, that woman expels this organized mass with less facility and a greater proportionate loss of blood than any other parent; and thongh nature is in most instances, sufficient to perform a safe and spontaneous expulsion in the present corrupt state of society, nevertheless many casualties occur during gestation and par- turition, which interrupt the ordinary course, and evince the necessity of extraneous interference. , On contemplating the natural history of man, and the different degrees of intellectual capacity and improvement in the civilized and uncivilized parts of the globe, we observe a corresponding difference of suffering in the parturient condition. It has been observed by various authors who have had opportunities of visiting the most un- civilized and remote parts of the known globe, where the inhabitants live in a great measure in a state of nature, that the women suffer little when compared with those of European countries. The proximate cause of the pain and difficulty attendant on parturition appears more imputable to the habits of dissipation and voluptuousness and the deterioration of physical strength, than to any immediate infliction at the fall. A late author, (Dr. Osborn) in his Essay on Midwifery, has taken great pains to prove a con- trary doctrine; for (says he) " the erect position of the huinan frame, that singular mark of pre-180 eminence, exposes woman to pain and difficnlty in natural parturition, fi om which the subordinate quadruped is almost entirely exempted, liy the horizontal position of her body," and the same author adds, " according to the Mosaic account of the creation of the world, human parturition was distinguished by the severity of its pains, by its difficulties and dangers, from the same opera- tion in other animals, as a curse annexed to the fallen nature of man, and that 'in sorrow shalt thou bring forth children,' was announced to our first parents as a punishment which it was the in- tention of the beity, should continue to afflict human nature, as long as the world endured." See Page 7 and 8. Granting that these difficulties alluded to by Dr. Osborn, were the consequence of the edict at the fall, might it not be inferred that they would be applicable in an equal degree to every parturient human female in all quarters of the globe ?* * We read in Wafer's Description of the Isthmus of America, Page 151, that "when a woman is dehvered of a child, auolher woman takes it in her arms within half an hour or less after it is born, and takes the lying-in woman upon her back, and goes with both of them into the river and washes them there." NewhofF in his Voyages, Page 152, says the Brazilian women have very easy labours, for as soon as they are delivered they go to the river and wash themselves without harm. Lery iu his voyages, chap. 16, relates the practice of the savages of Brazil181 Thus we sec from these quotations how this respectable author has, by a too superficial and inaccurate view of the subject, slided impercep- tibly into error, and being also a teacher of mid- ^yifery, has propagated opinions which have be- come very general, and more necessarily reqmre refutation; for if we advert to the history of the hnr; , nliu;>rihb &i imitating the instinctive designs of the quadruped and pulling the placenta away from the mother with the teeth. See also Hufeland on the'Art of Prolonging Lite, Vol. 2, Page 9, chap. I. and Dr. Gregory's Comparitive View, section 1st. Long in his History of Jamaica, Vol. IL Page 380, says, that " theii'women are delivered with little or no labour ; they have therefore, no more occasion for Midwives than the female Ouran Outang, or any other wild animal, a woman brings forth her child in a quarter of an hour, and goes the same day to ,|:he); ?ea and washes herself." Stedman in his Narrative of South America, Pages 413, 414, says, " their women are delivered without any assistance, and with so little inconvenience or suffering that they seem exempt from the curse of Eve. They go about their menial services for ibeir husbands the day after their delivery; this however ridicu- lous and incredible it may appear is an absolute fact, that every one of those gentlemen lie in their hammocks for about a month, groaning and grunting as if they had been themselves in labour, during which time all the women must attend them with extraordinary care and the best food. This the Indian calls enjoy- ing himself and resting from his labour." It appears also from Sonnini's Voyage in Greece and Turquia, that the Grecian woman suffer very little during labour. It is asserted by Aristotle, that the women of Ligustria bring forth children without pain, and that they return to their business as soon]82 iriliabitaiits of dillereiit nations who dwell in the torrid andyhV*V/zones, and niost unpoHshed parts of the globe where luxul-y has found no abode, we are informed it is not very uncommon to ob- serve labour terminate with little or no appearance of pain, or indication of sorrow on the counte- nance; and in such uncivilized states of society -HifJ- ■ . ■■ as they are delivered. Dr. Bancroft says " that child bearing is attended with so Httle pain in Guinea, that tlie women seem to be exempted from the curse inflicted upon Eve." See also an interesting account of the customs of the North Amrrica Indians in Dr. Rush's Medical Inquiries, Vol. I. " during pregnancy (he remarks) the women are exempted from the more laborious parts of their duty: hence miscarriages rarely happen among them. Nature is their only midwife, their labours are short and accompanied with little pain, each woman is delivered in a private cabin, without so much as one of her own sex to attend her, after washing herself in cold water she returns in a few days to her usual employment ; so that she knows nothing of those accidents which proceed from the carelessness or ill management ofMidwives; or those weaknesses which arise from a month's confinement in a warm room." The London Practice of Mid- wifery contains a case of a woman being delivered in her sleep. See also Baynard on Cold Bathing, Page 173, and Brooks's Natural History, Vol. I, Page 175. It may appear strange, (though true) that it is at the present time, the custom among many nations of North America, for the husband to betake himself to bed the moment that his wife is delivered. T'lis ridiculous custom is now practised in the Can- ton of Bern, and is called /aire couvade. Mark Paul observed this among the Tartars, and Herodotus, also found it practised among the Scylliiaus.183 (if upon any) it is presumed physical causes luight be expected to operate with the most powerful influence. And even in the intermediate latitudes there is great disparity of suffering manifested in the difterent classes and condition of females, when equally exempt from bodily deformity. Though it be allowed that a warm climate may possibly exert some influence on the state of the parturient female, ^in modifying the procfess^'^bf labour by means of relaxing and dilating the muscular system; yet in the most northern lati- tudes, from the nature of acquired habits, the rigidity and firmness of the muscular fibre and^ power of exertion are greater during labour, and on this principle the influence of temperature in different climates becomes counterbalanced. Hence it is reasonable to infer, that the mental sufferings will be proportionately less, and their physical energy greater ; for it is well known to every accoucheur, that the faculties of the n^iml^^ liave great influence over the uterine system. . It appears a remarkable fact from the history of the Native Indians of North America, before alluded to, that there have been no bodily defor- mities (exclusive of accidents) observed among; them; and also that they are exempt from almos^ every class of disease except fever; nevertheless, as luxury, dissipation, and intemperance have become prevalent by promiscuous intercourse with184 other nations, so in a certain ratio has disease spread its baneful influence in that continent. Hence may be seen the pernicious effects result- ing from an ungoverned and licentious mode of civilization, in forming the outline of the physical character of man, which is to. be feared but too feebly compensates for. those diseases whicli ine- vitably become entailed on poste^ty^ ..These facts lead me to believe,, tjia^,they in, no small degree exemplify what I am . attempting to establish, namely, that parturition was originally intended by the Deity, to^^^.)ip effecte4^.jA^i|./i, facility ami It might on a cursory view. of .the subject, be thought irrelevant in this place, to attempt to refute Dr. Osborn's arguments, but he, seems to have car- ried his premises farther than what appears war- rantable ; and to have drawn conclusions whichy i^? allowed to prevail without refutation, might prote a . barrier to future improvements in the obstetric r art, and lead practitioners to indulge in a kind of apathy in prosecuting their studies ; thus obstruct- ing all future progress in this important depart-., ment of science, than which nothing demands; ^ greater circumspection in the accoucheur^ ^,qr_\ exhibits a more striking display of the wise eco^j nomy of nature. Similar sentiments to those abovej f stated, have been entertained, by various Com-< mentators on the Old Testament;, bvi,t,!.I see Jio,,185 just ground for inferring any immediate physical infliction from either sacred or profane history. The language of Scripture may admit of a more satisfactory explanation, by supposing that it is merely a prediction of the future effects of depra- vity in this particular instance of the animal economy; a prediction ivhich has been abundantly verified in the sufferings of females, notwithstand- ing the exceptions that may be found to the general fact. But without any further remarks, I would just observe, that Dr. Osborn, for the purpose of substantiating his i-easonings and demonstrations, as he chooses to call them, should have proved' that there was some absolute change made by the Deity in the structure of the human female pelvis or cranium of the fcetus at the time of the fall, which no one except himself ever yet supposed, in order to explain the text. The structure and adaptation of those parts of the human female, and cranium of the fcetus which are essential to parturition, are, in the opinion of most physiologists, as manifest indications of uniformity and design in the arrangements of Pro- vidence, as is observed in any other part of the corporeal system. Hence it becomes extremely arrogant and repugnant to reason, to attempt to arraign the wisdom and attributes of the Deity, on the ground of existing maladies, when there is no doubt, that, in a great degree, they arise from 2 a18« llie enervating eflects of luxury, and modes of education and civilization, connected with circum- stances of a more adventitious nature, and not from any " pre-eminence of posture, or inevitable physical evil." It is no doubt to a combination of errors arising from a too sedentary course of life, and modes of refinement perpetuated from the earliest periods of history to the present time, that we should ascribe the chief difficulties attendant on every stage of tedious labour, except such as are occasioned by accident. ili //t These causes of depravation sufficiently account for the origin and duration of the principal calami- ties in this department of human suffering. Such instances particularly exemplify the difter- ence between the savage and the civilized state; it is not, however, my intention to infer that in the present habits of European society, such con- duct as that of the Brazilean women (before men- tioned) ought to be tolerated. I only wish from hence to intimate, that as art and refinement lead to every species of langour and imbecility, the female who exposes her system to debility, by yielding to the luxurious and enervating effijcts of affluence in polished life, must expect a share of its evil consequences. To acquire a competent knowledge of the par- turient operation, let us keep in view the natural structure of the female pelvis, and the facility a187 with wliich the fa?tal head descends through its apertures during the process of natural labour; tlie cranium of the foetus being composed of several distinct and separate flexible bones con- nected by synneurosis, its membranes become com- pressed and overlay one another, consequently the volume of the head is materially reduced in its dimensions,^^ in proportion to the force of ttterine action, and the opposing obstacles whicii accompany labour. This agency is accomplished by the reiterated action of the uterus, which forces the edges of the bones of the cranium over each other without injury to the child or mother ; which effect in the reduction of bulk, could not possibly take place, vifs . the cranium had been formed of one solid bone, or the pelvis had been differently constructed. The distinctive marks which so manifestly characterize the difference be- tween a male and female pelvis, must arise fi om the intentions of Providence in furnishing the fe- male with a frame so admirably adapted for the safety of the child during labour, as well as her be- ing qualified in other respects to become a mother. The cavity of the female pelvis, when exempt from disease, is much more capacious than that of the male, the perpendicular dimensions greater, as also the ti ansverse diameter. The crista of the ilia and the tuberosities of the ischia, are likewise more expanded outwards,188 the concavity of the sacrum more extensive, the symphysis pubis is wider in the female, and the angle of the arch more obtuse, consequently the OS coccygis is at a greater distance from these points, and the space greater. This invariable peculiarity of formation in the female pelvis, ap- pears admirably adapted by the author of nature for the more easy reception and egress of the foetus during the process of parturition. If not designed for this wise purpose, whence arises the' sexual difference in this respect ^iui v^ '(Thus labour is evidently facilitated and not retarded by the adaptations of Providence. Daily observation likewise evinces the peculiar and appropriate proportions which exist through- out the quadruped creation, between the capacity of the male and female pelvises, and the respec- tive size of the foetal head; and sufficiently prove by analogy the intentions of the Deity in this particular instance, in assigning a free exit for the foetus at the time of birth; iow si^dw 8ft Among the pre-eminent and concurrent circum- stances in human parturition, is the number of sutures and flexible bones, which form the cranium of the foetus, compared with those of the adult, together with the favourable presentation of the head of the foetus almost invariably corresponding with the longest diameters of the pelvis, as it >vinds through the cavity at birth.189 ^On t\m subject, it is remarked by Dr. Deiimaii, that " it is evident beyond all doubt, if this pro- vision had not been made, that many children must have been destroyed at the time of birth; or their parents must have died undelivered." These observations will appear confirmed by advertinj^ to the fact, that the parturient process of the lower^ classes of animals, which continue in their natural condition, has deviated comparatively little, from the state in which they were originally placed by Providence ; while those which have been brought into a state of domestication, have had their sufferings proportionably increased. Hence we are led to infer from analogy, that the parturient process is greatly deranged both in the higher and lower orders of animal creation, by artificial modes of living among brutes, and a relaxed state of moral discipline in human society. 3 This diversity in parturition may be further ex^ emplified, by referring to the inhabitants of foreign countries where women exist in comparative sim- plicity, and where labour is easily achieved. This remarkable fact being known, shews that the differenceiiitt' the event of child-birth does not wholly depend on the effects of climate, or the diversities of bodily structure. For example, let the uncivilized female be removed to this land of luxury, and her easy process of labour would readily convince the observer of the fact. Or let100 thie refined European be conveyed to a less civi- lized part of the globe, where voluptuousness is unknown, and she will undergo the same degree of suffering, as though she had remained in her native clime. Hence we may look in part to moral causes for an explanation of this sexual phenomenon, and not altogether' to- anatomical structure and conformation.''''^ These analogical facts anid' observations, indu- bitably prove that the influence of climate and organic structure, are alone inadequate to produce so direful a calamity on the female race, unless associated with long established habits of luxui^ and refinement, and the undue excitement of the mind, from which it appears manifest, that this morbid affection of the system, has for ages past been transmitted by hereditary association and disposition from parents to their offspring. In this way many constitutional diseases have been engendered, and bodily deformities produced in both sexes. Hence we may be led to draw this general conclusion, that the chief difficulties con- nected with labour,* are primanly excited by mor- bid predispositions in the female system, by asso- * In Barrow's account of the Arctic Regions, it is said, tJiat notwithstanding the coldness of the climate, the women seem to suffer little from child-bearing, resuming their occupations almost immediately after delivery. See also Crantz's History of Green- land, Vol. I. •J91 cmlio»is. or syiupathies of bodily and mental susceptibility produced on the state of society, influenced by artificial habits, and eventually im- pressed on the constitution. In concurrence with the foregoing- remarks on the difficulty of parturi- tipA, and the degeneracy (if t^he Imifl^n.^ace, though they relate chiefly to the proc^s^^.^jOf labour, and to female habits, yet yve must ac- knowledge, that man has in an equal degree .par- ticipated with woman in the enervating effects of luxury and refinement, produced by similar causes ever, since the antediluvian age of the world. The evil tendency, 9!,, dissipation and eflfeminacy in generating and aggravating the forms of disease has been long known to the medical enquirer, and have not escaped the observation of the jp.oet Dryden, in the following emphatic lines:— "^Our ancient fathers hardly earn'd their food ; Toil strung their nerves, and purify'd their blood ; n't h'^OffF , . , ■ r jii u j j- -g^^ their sons, apamper'd race ot men, Kirft Are dwindled down to three-score years and ten.'' ( - . rii rHO Though man participated at the fall with wo- man in the general denunciation, the occupation and duties allotted to him in this part of the globe, render him equally liable to attacks of disease with the other sex; and the curse inflicted upon the earth, as the consequence of his trangression, has like other sublunary things, been variously192 modified ever since the antediluvian epoch, either by the spontaneous agency of nature, or arti- ficial modes of economy. Thus we see that the Deity has not entailed on either sex, or on ihe earth all those evils which were at first threa- tened ; but has in reference to both, displayed his benevolence and compassion. We see his justice in what is suffered, and his goodness in what is enjoyed. The first authentic precepts relative to our pre- sent subject, are in the writings of Hippocrates, who lived 460 years before the Christian era; from which source we learn, that it was the prac- tice at that early period, to leave the funis umhili- calis undivided till the placenta was expelled; and if the uterine efforts were inefficient, recourse was eventually had to administering forcing medicine by the mouth, and the introduction of medicated substances up the vagina to promote its expulsion. But the passing of the hand into the uterus, for the purpose of extracting the after-birth, is scarcely hinted at by this author; and in the book De SuperfcBtatione, he says, " if the secundines come not away easily, the child must be left suspended: to them, whilst the woman is seated on a high stool, that the foetus, by its weight, may pull them along; and lest this should be too hastily effected, the child may be placed on soft wool, or on two bladders filled with water, and covered with wool;the bla(](leis hemg punctured, and the water evacuated, they will subside, and the child sink- ina- oradually, will o-eotly draw the secundines away: but should the iiavel string happen to be broken, proper weights must be tied to it, to answer the same purpose: these are the safest, methods of extracting the placenta." Such were the earliest precepts of this venerable author,^!i"oi5 prompting the expulsion of the placenta. Little or no information is extant of the pro- o-ressive state of midwifery, from the time of Hippocrates to that of Celsus,* a cotemporary of the Emperors Augustus and Tiberius., This I author, however, (though probably not am ac- i, coucheur,) claims the merit of being the first who t directed the introduction of the hand into the uterus with the viiew of extracting a retained pla- centa; but at what precise time, or on .what . particular occasion, this method of practice was ^ founded, we are at a loss to conjecture ; neverthe-* less, it is evident, from the subsequent records of the obstetric ai't, that very opposite methods of, conducting the operation, were countenanced by different writers, ia most parts of the civilized globe, for the space of several centuries. The reasons assigned for this contrariety of proceeding are chiefly founded,.on the following; principles. * See Lib. 7. Chap. 29.194 The advocates for immediate extraction, con- sider the placenta, an inanimate substance, and suppose it would produce dangerous effects to the mother, if allowed to remain in the uterus, after the birth ; or if the os uteri should contract before it was extruded, manual attempts would then be wholly impracticable: and also that it is an ex- traneous mass, which if left in the uterus, injurious effects would follow. Experience however, the most unerring guide, has proved each of these opinions to be incorrect, as far as relates to their being invariably relied on, and adopted as general methods of practice. Impressed by aconviction of the efficacy of nature in most instances, I am led to believe, that when art is unnecessary, manual interference becomes injurious; this is manifested on no occasion more clearly, than when the membranes are artificially ruptured during parturition, which generally in- duces a premature suspension of uterine action, before its orifice is disposed to yield naturally. Protracted labour is thereby incurred, together with a train of subsequent evils, inseparably con- nected with the whole parturient and puerperal condition; hence it is evident, that no officious interposition should take place between the ex- pulsive action of the uterus, and the advances of the head of the child in the passage, during the regular process of a natural labour, and where the195 cavity of the pelvis presents no barrier to its course. On all occasions, it is best to watch this guide attentively, to discern her procedure, to support and aid her efforts when inefficient, and when assistance is not requisite, to withhold every un- seasonable interference, and forbear to subvert her endeavours by any obtrusive or precipitate at- tempts either to hasten labour, or extract the placenta by the hand. A< Serious difficulties and embarrassments often arise from the over officious efforts of an ac- coucheur during labour, by a too frequent ex- amination, rupturing the membranes, irritating and distending the os uteri and vagina, which invariably produce a derangement of uterine action, uniformly retard the advances of the head of the foetus, and prevent the spontaneous expulsion of the placenta, exciting constitutional irritation, and being not unfrequently the cause of puerperal fever.—After the birth of the child a certain portion of blood is always discharged during the natural extrusion of the placenta, in proportion to the contraction of the muscular fibres of the uterus upon the substance con- tained within it, and the extent of separation of the vessels which pass from this viscus to the ovum; but during this process, if a considerable detachment of the uterus and placenta take place, and a state of uterine torpor ensue, ..SQi as to pre-19G vent a (liniiiiiilion of the diameter of the uterine vessels, a degree of haemorrhage will necessarily follow, which indubitably calls for the aid of the accoucheur. If the accoucheur, immediately on the termina- tion of labour, and before having waited to ascer- tain the inadequate functions of the uterus, in- stantly begin to pull at the funis, or force his hand into that organ, and drag the placenta out hastily, he will frequently hazard the life of the mother, by inverting the uterus, or inducing ha3- morrhage by a disruption of the cord, or partial separation of the cake from the uterine surface. This mode of practice, though formerly much pursued, has, it is presumed, among rational and enlightened practitioners, for some time past been yielding to more judicious measures. The parturient condition inevitably exposes women more frequently to uterine haemorrhage than to any other incidental disease; and when the discharge is excessive, it tDccomes exceedingly alarming to the accoucheur and dangerous to the patient, in proportion to the extent to which the bond of union between the placenta and the uterine surface is affected, and the quantity of blood lost in a given time. An accurate knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the uterus, and its inherent action in the different stages of gestation and parturition.107 tooethei with a competent idea of the diameters of°the pelvis, form the basis of the art of mid- wifery, present the best resources to the prac- titioner, and govern his steps in every pressmg- emergency and danger. An intimate acquamtance with the functions of the uterine system, and the management of the placenta, undoubtedly con- stitutes a most important acquisition to the ac- coucheur in every case of exigency. The con- sternation excited by haemorrhage is usually great, and a completely torpid state of the ute- rus occurring immediately after delivery, at- tended with flooding and syncope without ces- sation, no contraction of its fibres being per- ceptible on passing the hand into its cavity, evi- dently give cause to suspect approaching danger. When the efforts of nature have been uninter- rupted during the course of a natural labour, the interval between the birth of the child and ex- pulsion of the placenta, rarely exceeds ten or fif- teen minutes, and though this period may occa- sionally be surpassed, yet it is more prudent to wait the recurrent action of the uterus, than to have recourse to the interposition of art, unless induced by some other and more urgent cause. The impressions produced on the system by uterine haemorrhage, should always be watched with great vigilance, as the danger incurred is not altogether in an equal ratio with the sanguiferous198 discharge; nor can we possibly limit our inter- ference to any determinate space of time, or rule of practice ; therefore the period selected for ex- tracting the retained, or adherent placenta, must be regulated by the existing circumstances of every case, cautiously steering between the two extreme points of precipitation and procrastination. From this view of the subject, it will appear evident, that the most effectual means of preventing bai~ morrhage, is to preserve a due action of the uterus, without exciting the force of the circulation, and our primary object is to incite this inherent action, before we proceed to extract the placenta by the introduction of the hand. I conceive this part of the subject cannot be placed in a clearer light than by quoting the fol- lowing passage from White's Treatise on Lying-in Women, 5th edition, page 312. "The advocates for leaving the placenta intirely to nature, certainly act upon a laudable plan, and no person has a higher opinion of the powers of nature than myself; but they have ended where they should have begun. They set out with art, and end with nature. It would have been well if they had reversed their practice. We do nature great injustice, if by taking the reins into our own hands, we first interrupt her, put her out of her course, and then leave her to herself Woman, in a state of nature,199 was never delivered in a hot room, nor with many clothes upon her: by heat, and a multitude of clothes, the muscles lose their contractile power. Woman in a state of nature, would not think of being delivered in an upright posture, or upon the knee of an assistant. Woman in a state of nature, would not have the child dragged from her, it Avould be gradually expelled by the contractile power of the uterus: the same progressive con- tracting power would expel the secundines; and woman in a state of nature, would not after de- livery, lie in an horizontal posture, in a warm bed, drinking warm liquids for a week, or even a day. " We should be consistent in our practice; we should imitate nature through her whole progress, and not in the latter part only; but we must also make proper allowance for these times, and this country where women are so far removed from a state of nature." It may not, perhaps, be thought useless in this enquiry, to give the reader a chronological sketch of the principal authors who have treated on the subject; from which arrangement, the different authorities will be more easily ascertained by those whose engagements may not allow a particular reference to the works of the respective writers, some of whom are now obsolete.2iH) I. Authors who recommend that the expulsion of the Placenta should be left to the efforts of nature. RHODION TURNBULL RAWLINS RUYSCH* ANDRE PASTA RAYNOLD I II. Authors ivho recommend the immediate extraction of the Placenta. HIPPOCRATES ^ CELSUS AETIUS PAULUS ^GIKETA AVICENNA ALBUCASIS ROCHEUS PARE GUILLEMEAU MAURICEAU PORTAL M. DE LA VAUGinOl!! MAWBRAY ' DAVENTER CHAPxMAN HEISTER BURTON MANNINGHAM COUNCELL PERFECT * Ruysch supported this mode of practice during the latter period of his life, in a Treatise published at Amsterdam, entitled De Uteri Placenta, 1725, wherein he describes an orbicular muscle attached to the fundus uteri, the office of which^, he supposes, is to exclude the Placenta by its own inherent efforts. t The original author of the work translated by Raynold, is supposed to be Eucharius Rhodion. This was the first book published on Midwifery in England, and is entitled " The Byrlhe of Mankyndc, or the Women's BooUe."III. Authors who adopt a middle course of Practice. ROUSET iVlUUixli< LA MOTTE VV 111 1 ill RIVERIUS OFKMAN DIONIS tOWDER ASTRUC BAUDELOCQUE SMELLIE OSBORN PUGH BLAND OULD YOUNG DEASE HAMILTON JOHNSON BURNS HUNTER HOGBEN FOSTER MERRIMAN COOPER RAMSBOTHAM SPENCE CONQUEST In this Synoptical Table, it will be perceived by the reader, that contrary opinions necessarily demand consideration; and on reflecting im- partially on the data offered, it would be no easy matter to determine the best mode to be miiversally adopted, as the authors of each opinion seem entitled to some share of credence; more especially when it is considered that the state of society, and the different countries in 2 c202 which they respectively lived, must have greatly infliieucetl their methods of practice. For it is evident that women inured to the European modes of life, cannot with impunity during labour, use the same exertions as those whose habits have been more consonant to the dictates of nature. The expulsion of the placenta and its mem- branous attachment is generally the work of nature, which is indicated soon after the termi- nation of labour, by a continuance of the inherent paroxysms of uterine action, aided by the powers of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm which expel the child; and this is usually completed in the space of ten or fifteen minutes after the birth. It will nevertheless be acknowledged, that the powers of nature are sometimes inefficient, and that the placenta becomes preternaturally retained in the uterus, beyond the usual time: on this account artificial assistance is requisite: and under the following heads may be included the chief difficulties connected with the present enquiry. I. Atony of the Uterus attended with flood- ing. n.—Irregular and Spasmodic Action of the Uterus and Encysted Placenta. III.—Morbid adhesion of the Placenta and Uterus to each other.'203 I purpose ill the subsequent pages, to point out the practice which appears to me the most eligible in the order now stated ; but as the process of parturition has great influence on the whole sys- tem, when associated with retained placenta and uterine heemorrhage in all its diversities, it will be indispensjbly requisite to subdivide the subject as I proceed, in order more fully to elucidate the most appropriate mode of treatment.204 I. Atony of the uterus, attended with flooding. This affection of the uterus may be excited by a variety of causes, such as the following :— By dilating and irritating the os uteri and vagina to expedite labour. By rupturing the membranes artificially. By a too confined apartment during labour. By imprudently attempting to extract the head of the foetus with instruments or other means. By rash and precipitate efforts to drag the body of the child through the apertures of the pelvis, without the co-existence of uterine action to pro- pel the shoulders forwards by its inherent efforts. Every officious attempt as above enumerated^ under whatever specious pretext it be applied during the economy of natural labour, is repre^ hqnsible, and not unfrequently produces irregular ^etion of the uterus and haemorrhage, with a train of subsequent mischief inseparably connected with the process of parturition. On the contrary, when labour has been natural and uninterrupted, by the interference of the wo-205 man herself, or her attendants, the placenta is ge- nerally ibund presenting- itself near the cervix uteri or in the vaginal orifice soon after the birth of the child ; in which case nature will in most in- stances accomplish her office without assistance, though the expulsive uterine action will be found more languid or active according to the condition of the woman, the duration and difficulty of the labour, or where rash attempts have been made to extract the child. After waiting some time and no haemorrhage has taken place, the uterine efforts being evidently suspended, and assuming a passive condition incurred by some of the causes above mentioned, in this state the woman should be placed for a while in a recumbent position, to teai^mllise the system and expedite the expulsion of the placenta. After this, the following means may be resorted to, such as giving her a mild cor- dial, admitting cold air into her apartment, soothing her mind, preserving quiet around her, friction and gentle pressure on the hypogastric re- gion : and every attempt should be made to re- cover her from her state of exhaustion, by the use of mild stimulants given inwardly and applied ex- ternally. If these efforts fail to rouse the energy of the uterus, and promote the ejection of the placenta, the accoucheur should then introduce one or two fingers cautiously up the vagina uteri, whilst with the other he takes hold of the funis206 and makes a gentle distention; tlms he will be enabled to ascertain the state of the orifice; and if its mouth be found in a favourable condition and the lobulated surface of the after-birth be within reach of the finger, though situated over the promontory of the superior aperture, its ex- pulsion may generally be accomplished by pres- sure on the abdomen with one hand, and gently pulling at the funis with the other in a direction different from the axis of the apertures of the pel- vis, at the same time slightly stimulating the ute- rus, by passing the fore finger a few times around.. its orifice, or by grasping it from without and ex- citing it through the relaxed parietes of the abdo- men. These simple modes of proceeding will generally promote such a degree of uterine action as will secure a favourable result; and will seldom fail to expedite the extrusion of the pi ass. from the^^uterine cavity into the vaginav The rfunis' should be previously coiled a few times rourid the finger of one hand, while the cake is received by the other, aiad at the vulva^the ejection will thus be usually completed with out further interference. But if any portion of the membranous fiUaments of the ovum remain unexpelled, it is proper they should be immediately and completely removed before the woman is changed from her situation or left by the accoucheur; as it has sometimes hap- pened that practitioners have incautiously left a207 part of the fillanientous membranes either in the vagina or suspended at the vulva. This will frequently produce constitutional irritation and fever, and if allowed to remain unremoved for several days, will become offensive, and malig- nant symptoms be the consequence. The detrusion of the placenta, in ordinary cases, may be managed by the above gentle mode ,pf practice ; and it is essentially requisite when en- gaged in this operation, on no occasion to exert a greater force upon the funis, than what is ade- quate to support its own weight, lest the cord should be lacerated or ruptured, or the uterus in- verted.* This event has in the latter instance * Various instances are recorded of the uterus being inverted, and much injury done to tiie parts subservient to generation, by the incautious proceeding of the accoucheur forestalhng nature's efforts, and rashly dragging away the placenta immediately on the birth of the child, however firmly attached to the surface of the uterus. See the works of Smellie, Denman, White, Spence, Perfect, Mangetu.s, Bartholin, Ruysch, Johnson, Giffard, Chapman, and La Motte. I have witnessed three entire cases of this kind, in one of which the labour had been conducted by a female practitioner; and on my arrival at the patient's house, I found the woman dead, the uterus wholly inverted without the labia, and the placenta in part attached to that organ. This woman died of profuse haemorrhage in the space of an hour from the birth of the child. 1 was lately called in great haste by Mr. Bailey, a practitioner of this town, (Blackburn,) to a case of complete inversion of the208 sometimes proved fatal and iu the former, pre- sented a serious embarrassment to the acconcheur; uterus ; the woman, on my entering the room, appeared in a slate of syncope. He informed me that the uterine pains were very violent during labour, and after the birth of the fojtus, on puUing sHghtly at the funis, the whole volume of the uterus became instantly inverted. On inspecting the state of the parts, 1 ob- served the uterus lying without the vulva, and the placenta firmly attached to its fundus, which organs reached midway to the woman's knees; fortunately, their^adhesion to each other was so complete, that little haemorrhage had ensued, this may be ac- counted for, by the inversion taking place so soon after birth, and before the uterus was allowed to act and separate from the placenta. Upon reflecting a few moments on the nature ot the case, and the impossibility of a body like this, the magnitude of which exceeded that of the head of the child, repassing through the neck of the uterus, I, without delay, grasped the whole substance between my hands and by uniform pressure, con- tinued for a few minutes, the blood oozed out, and it became considerably diminished. I then separated the placenta from its attachment to the uterus, and effected its reposition, by placing the points of my fingers against the fundus, and pushing it through its neck, and the inverted vagina, till the whole hand had completely passed the superior aperture of the pelvis, and entered into the proper cavity. Little or no ha;morrhage followed, and in order to prevent a future descent, a piece of sponge was introduced up the vagina, and retained in this situation by means of a T bandage. On removing the plug, and i-assiug my finger up the vagina the following day, I found the cavity of the pelvis nearly occu- pied by the partially inverted uterus, as it were in a strangulated state of its neck: notwithstanding this disastrous occurrence by20.9 as. in cases of adherent placenta, lia?moiTliage not unfrequently takes place f^pi^j^, tli|^, ,disrug^^^^ the introduction of the liand, the organ was soon reverted to its natural situa{iohV'ana 'tlie'VagHTi"^lle(3-^ «r6'; the spflnge wa^ renioved and-replaced'bAte 'evet^^^ or as often 'as it became offensive, and the woman during several days, strictly kept in a recumbent posture, a cooling plan of regimen was ehr joined, the bowels kept open by means of aperient' clysters, occasionally administered, and she completely recovered in a few weeks without any material Interruption, or return of the com- plaint, it is lamentaMe^ to remark, that I have been consulted in £i' considerable iiurnber of cases of inverted and prolapsed «fm,'of the chronic kind, which, on enquiry, I have traced to the mismanagement of the placenta, and it is probable, that such maladies are more frequent than at firstvi^w 'woulS be supposed in 'tii'e present improved state of ■■tli4"'te-IliiJui^li^ if'%uBj>ect liiimbers are, from motives of female "delicacy, screened fron^ professional notice;,^ ' . , , Few events happen to the accoucheur so alarming, or wnrcn are fraught with more danger to the , woman, than tiie inversion of the uterus immediately after birth, and there is reason to telieve, that an undue and untimely force exerted on the fiinis or substance of the placenta when attempting extraction is almost Tsf.): I ^■oi'.'.-: ■ ■!^i' ,,A:ytiii a:;^iii->ia} always the cause of such, occurrence. , , , '•(!f '!■•••- ■ > tcfi-^-f-a^- : i sd) baagsq •mtwinsp j The modeot mpkcias in these cases, as usually recoroiBended by authors when the placenta is adherent to the inverted uterus, is to return both organs at the same time without first separating one from the other. This counsel, though resting on high ?iu- thority, should be received and acted upon with great caution, as thebulk of the two protruded organs when surcharged with blood, will present such resistance to the exertions of the accoucheur ij| .attempting reduction under these circumstances, that it cannot J^g210 funis, aiul partial disuiiited surface of the retainecl mass from the uterus. On all occasions where the introduction of the hand mto the uterus is re- quired, it is necessary that the contents of the bladder and rectum be previously emptied ; and though I believe it contrary to general prac- tice, it is more eligible either when extract- ing the placenta, or turning the foetus in utero, to introduce the hand in such a way that the palm be directed towards the pubis and abdomen of the woman. On whatever side the woman be laid, by this means the hand is with greater facility conducted to the feet of the foetus or placenta, particularly in women with pendulous bellies where the uterus is pushed out of the axis of the apertures of the pelvis. The hand of the accoucheur thus conducted into the efFected without using great violence and exposing the woman to imminent and unnecessary danger ; and supposing it to be ac- complished in this way, the placenta will have to be disparted in the uterus and afterwards extracted, and great risk incurred of a second inversion, which presents a material objection to this mode of^'proceeding. The more rational and less injurious method appears to be in all cases, whether the placenta be at- tached to the uterus, or otherwise, to compress the whole sub- stance between the hands like a sponge, by which the blood will escape, and the uterus be diminished in size ; and the placenta, if adherent at the same time, will be separated, so that its re- duction mav be safely and readily accomplished without further interference by the method above adopted.211 litems will be better able to effect the extractiou through the axis of the brim, cavity, or outlet of the pelvis, than when employed in a contrary direction. When the separation and detrusion of the pla- centa do not yield to these simple cautious means, and the secondary pains fail to recur at the usual period, and the os uteri is contracted, it is better to desist from further attempts for a given time, lest a partial detachment should take place, and an unhitermitted hemorrhage ensue, which might urse as to introduce the hand into the uterus, when otherwise there would have been no necessity for such interference. This degree of depletion might reduce the patient to a state of langour before the placenta could with propriety be ex- tracted ; so that should she survive for a period, it is more than probable a state of debility would supervene, and dropsy take place, either soon after or posterior to the usual term of gestation. We ought, therefore, to proceed with the utmost deliberation and caution, and not to hasten the removal of the placenta, unless led to such ef- forts by a profuse or insidious haemorrhage be- fore the usual tokens of uterine action be mani- fested, which propitious event will generally, in due time, realize our expectations, and crown our future proceedings with success. The active state of the uterus in these cases,2i2 is an essential point lor the accoucheur to keep in view, and not unfrequently liolds out a cheering prospect, even when danger appears approaching. When no flooding or other urgent symptoms occur, and the uterus assumes a state of perma- nent torpor, we may with safety withhold these manual means, and wait even two or more hours before attempting extraction by artificial efforts,* * Mr. Turnbull, in his history of a case of Extra Uterine Gestation, Page 22, says, " I have not, as yet experienced any mischief from allowing the placenta to remain in uterine cases; but I have often been a witness to much injury being done, in precipitating its expulsion by rash introduction of the hand, for the purpose of tearing and extracting this substance from the ex. tremely tender and irritable interior surface of the uterus. It is a standing and invariable rule with me, and a wish I expressed to the midwives employed in the Eastern Dispensary, that they ishould use the gentlest efforts in delivering the after-birth; if this did not succeed, to leave its separation to nature. And in the course of the five years I have been surgeon to that institution, there has not been a less number than 1500 women delivered, and I can honestly declare, during that period, neither in jirivate nor in public practice, have I experienced any inconvenience from its retention; although in some instances, it has been retained two, three or even four days before it was entirely expelled." This passive mode of conducting the expulsion of the placenta, was pursued by the celebrated Dr. Wra. Hunter, during the earlier period of his practice, and strenuously taught to his pu- pils : hence there is reason to believe, that opinions sanctioned by such high authority became widely diffused among accoucheurs, which has been in a great measure the cause of many practi-213 during which interval the accoucheur should occasionally ascertain the state of the os uteri, lest internal haemorrhage, or a contraction of the cervix takes place. Gentle frictions may be used with advantage on the hypogastric region, and mild cordials cautiously administered into the stomach, to excite the vital functions, and pro- mote the extrusion of the placenta. Should the uterus shew no disposition to con- tract, on the extraction or natural expulsion of the placenta, and syncope and hemorrhage ensue, the accoucheur should immediately pass his hand into the uterine cavity, \vhere it may be moved about until its contractile functions are restored, after which the hand may be gradually withdrawn, together with any remaining portion of coagula or loose fiUaments of the chorion or amnion, tioners advocating the propriety of leaving the expulsion of the placenta wholly to nature. Nevertheless we are informed, that on two or more occasions the placenta was retained after birth for the space of one or two weeks, and was afterwards expelled in a state of putrefaction, and the women died the same day. And in other instances it remained adherent with comparative impunity for more than twenty-four hours. On a dispassionate and retrospective view of the subject, these deplorable incidents ultimately determined Dr. Hunter to adopt a contrary course of practice during the remainder of his life; since which period the mode of submitting the exclusion of the placenta wholly to the agency of nature has been greatly modified.214 Syncope, though apparently alariiiii)g, is often a salutary symptom in uterine haimorrhage, Ijy abating the action of the arterial system, and lessening the diameter of the blood-vessels which open on the inner surface of the uterus; during this natural process coagula may form in the ends of the vessels, and check the further tendency to hiemorrhage. In these perplexed cases, attended with syncope and depression of the vital energy, it requires much discrimination and judgment to determine the precise time, and to what extent the administering of cordials may be requisite ; for it is to be feared that they are often used indis- criminately and to an injurious degree, both externally as well as internally. Opium given in very large doses has been re- commended on high authority as being almost a specific in uterine haemorrhage, but an implicit reliance on its efficacy does not, from my expe- rience, warrant such conclusion ; it is nevertheless a valuable adjunct in many affections of the uterus, particularly in convulsions and irregular spasmo- dic contractions of its muscular fibres; but in cases of syncope, connected with flooding, if in- tended to produce a sedative effect on the system, it may so far retard arterial action as wholly to suspend the vital functions and expose the patient to imminent danger. It is the peculiar lot of some females to be215 predisposed to uterine haemorrhage and detention of the placenta subsequent to parturition, arising from a passive state of the muscular fibres of the uterus ; and when from former occurrences there is reason to suppose such an incident Hkely to happen, a broad bandage applied steadily, and tightened immediately on the termination of labour, will greatly support the existing laxity of the abdominal parietes, and be a probable means of preventing or lessening haemorrhage or the ex- travasation of blood which might otherwise accu- mulate in the cavity of the uterus, and also ob- viate that tendency to syncope which is so fre- quently consequent on a state of uterine depletion and torpor. We may look upon a passive state of the uterus as a frequent cause of flooding and which requires unceasing attention in the ac- coucheur. Notwithstanding this precaution, the placenta will sometimes be eventually retained in the uterus and a part of the mass become putrid, which may be known by the fetor of the discharge and distention of the uterine region, in which case the hand may be conducted into its cavity, and the whole of the placenta scooped out of its recess. In order to excite uterine contractions and pre- vent heemorrhage, the hand should be still retained in the cavity, as a stimulus, and kept moving against its internal surface till that organ has fully21(5 resumed its natural coutraclile fuuctions, and as It were, forced the operator s hajid into the vagina; after which, the use of antiseptic injections cau- tiously thrown up the passage, will be serviceable - in preventing irritation and fever, and also wash- ing out any putrid coagula that might otherwise be offensive. In some instances the placenta may be lodged in the uterus and not adhere to its sur- face, or it may be retained in the vagina ; in the former case, an atony or want of contraction is the immediate cause, and sometimes a protracted labour attended with debility and fainting. Such occurrences also may not mifrequently be thecon^ sequence of mal-practice. In this species of re- tained placenta and inert condition of the uterus, it has been recommended for the woman to blow into an empty bottle, take a pinch of snuff, or attempt to cough; but these are hazardous expedients and should never be resorted to in a passive state of the uterus, as the expulsion of the placenta when thus retained, may be best promoted by adopting the forementioned methods and waiting the recur- rent action of the uterus. In the latter case, when the placenta is wholly or partially retained in the vagina (and this circumstance is not unusual after abortion) and is associated with syncope, and no flooding occurs ; while the placenta thus re- mains enveloped in the membranes, little or no absorption can take place to injure the systeuj217 from the extraneous mass ; l)iit when it becomes disunited and gets impacted in the vagina for se- veral days, it may retard the discharge of the lochia and absorption ensue: in which case, an early re- moval of the substance by means of the hand ap- pears the most judicious practice, as its egress? wholly prevents the process of decomposition and the absorption of the concealed fluids, as well as inflammation and fever. These are maladies, always attendant with danger, when connected with the puerperal state. In some instances, the placenta is partially de- tached from the surface of the uterus, and wq may naturally expect a greater or less ^iischarge of blood to follow, in proportion to the extent of the disunited portion, than if the whole cake adhered to that viscus; consequently it will be more prudent to wait for the natural exclusion in the latter instance, than in the former. And al- though the putrefaction of this glandular sub- stance, when impacted in the cavity of the uterus, for an undue time, is a matter of considerable moment, and is apt to create alarm; yet, w^hile the whole of that redundant body remains firmly attached to the interior of this organ, that pro- cess can only take place slowly, nor will there be much haemorrhage prior to the accession of uterine action. When the accoucheur is anxious to know the 3 E218 'i ... position and degree of adhesion existuig- be- tween tlie uterus and placenta, he may ascer- tain this by gently pulling at the funis; and if there be an elastic resilient sensation com- municated to the hand, it is a certain proof of such attachment. In this case, if neither haemorrhage nor other unfavourable symptoms appear, no danger will ensue from waiting the recurrence of uterine action before attempting to extract the placenta by manual efforts. If after a considerable interval the detention of the placenta denote a state of decomposition and putrefaction, at this period it may happen that a natural separation, or exfoliation from the uterus takes place, and the fungous mass will be discharged spontaneously and haemorr- hage follow. If, however, the substance should be loosely detained either in the uterus or any part of the passage, it ought to be brought forth without delay by means of art; at the same time cautiously extracting every portion of the membranes, and allowing the hand to remain constantly moving in the organ till its cavity be amply diminished by muscular contraction, while the remaining coagula will be propelled along with the retraction of the hand, by which means the hemorrhage will generally cease. In cases where the uterus is in a relaxed con- dition, and haemorrhage threatened soon after219 the birt)i of the child, this mode of artificially exciting the organ to contract by the interposi- tion of the hand, without increasing the action of the sanguiferous system, (by the use of active stimulants) should never be dispensed with, as it is usually attended with advantage, and may somelimes even in die most alarming and urgent circumstances be the means of rescuing the pa- tient from imminent danger, when other efforts have been found unavailing. A passive state of the uterus and retained placeiita, is sometimes accompanied with insidi- ous haemorrhage; in which case, our conduct must be governed by the quantity of blood lost in a given time. When such an occurrence takes place immediately after the delivery of the child, and continues without intermission, till its effects are obviously manifested on the general system by a weak fluttering pulse, pallid countenance, clammy sweats, cold extremities, fainting, with tinnitus aurium, ^r. ^t. the patient becomes ex- hausted and would soon expire if the symptoms were not instantly counteracted. In these alarming instances, the most prompt and decisive mea- sures should be employed effectually to remove the contents of the womb, by promoting its mus- cular contractions in the way above-mentioned. To aid our efforts in this perilous situation of uterine hseiuorrliage, 1 have frequently witnessed'220 the most powerful and desirable eflects from aii opiate clyster thrown up the rectum, composed of four or six ounces of cold water, and eighty or one hundred drops of Tinct Opii: and an astrin- gent injection of the same temperature may be also injected into the vagina or uterus, to moderate the inordinate discharge of blood, by producing coagula in the mouth of the vessels that open into that organ. The injection for this purpose may be com- posed of ten ounces of cold water, or a decoction of oak bark and fifteen or twenty grains of alum, and be repeated at discretion. A recumbent posture should be strictly observ- ed, and a cool apartment selected for the patient till the flooding has entirely ceased, after which a more nutritious diet may be allowed, and mild cordials indulged in, adapted to the debility to which the woman has been reduced by haemorr- hage. If these means fail in arresting the flooding, recourse may be had to the internal application of the following medicines with beneficial effect: R. Pliimbi Superacetatis gr, iij, i R- Potassae Nitratis gr, x Opij Purif—gr. ij. t^._.*„i Coufec Aromat q. s fiat Massa in Pilulas vj. dividcn- da, quariim capiat una tertia vel quarta quaque hora. In conjunction with the above remedies, I usu* Tinct Fol. Digital gutt x, Tinct Opij.—gutt xv. Infiis Rosje—5). M. fiat haustus tertia quaque hora sumendus.ally make use of topical applications, such as cloths wrung out of a solution of common salt in vinegar and water on the region of the abdomen; or if the season of the year produce ice, a bladder may be filled with it bruised and laid on the same part, and renewed as occasion may require. It will nevertheless be always necessary to bear in mind the equivocal nature of uterine he- morrhage, as every discharge of blood from the uterus is not an invariable and sufficient justifica- tion for the immediate extraction of the placenta. Sometimes a passive discharge of blood or vent of coagula will at intervals take place, in which case, it becomes necessary to keep in view the strength of the patient, and the quantity and quality of the evacuation,* before manual as- * In a few instances of profuse haemorrhage from the uterus, I have adopted the use of cold water injected into its cavity with advantage, by means of an apparatus similarly constructed to the one described by Jesse Foot, in his cases of the practice of Vesicae Lotura, with the addition of a bladder fixed to the end of the flexible tube or catheter, which may be conveyed in a collapsed and empty state into the uterus, where it is to be retained as a receptacle for the cold water when forced from Ihe elastic gum bottle previously adapted to the otijer end of the catheter. This mode of suppressing hairaorrhage, by the application of cold to tiie intenial superfice of the uterus, may be repeated as often as deemed necessary, by alternately evacuating and re- newin" the contents of the bladder, and without withdrawing222 sistance be attempted. In some inslaiices a person will scarcely bear tlie loss of a small })ortion of blood, without iiicm'riug danger, while another under apparently similar circumstances will lose many pounds with comparative impu- nity ; and in some plethoric habits, where the circulating system has been much accelerated by tedious labour, there is frequently a considerable flux of blood immediately succeeding the birth of the child, and before the uterus has had time to contract, and eject the placenta; which dis- charge, if neither profuse nor incessant in a full state of body, may be attended with advantage to the patient, by unloading the turgid vessels of the uterus, and preventing subsequent fever, &c. If, however, the woman be debilitated by active haimorrhage without intermission to an alarming extent, exhibiting the usual symptoms of danger, we must in this case proceed to ex- tract the placenta without delay, as a trifling loss of blood when uninterrupted, may eventually prove fatal in a robust as well as in a delicate constitution. We cannot always draw a certain prognosis from the cause of the hajmorrhage, nor judge the instrutnent, by which process the temperature of the uterus and vagina are reduced below their ordinary standard, and the distended bladder pressing on the extremities of the bleeding vessels of that organ, ihc lutnionhagc uii.y be further restrained.223 how tlie case will terminate from the quantity of blood lost, as young persons bear depletion bet- ter than those more advanced in life. A woman mav be cheerful and apparently bearing the loss of blood without danger, with a pretty strong pulse, not exceeding ninety strokes in the minute, and die instantly; while another may have a pallid ghastly countenance, attended with sickness, dimness of sight, coldness of the extremities, loss of memory, and pulse scarcely perceptible, and still recover. Another may have these alarming symptoms, and yet linger several weeks or months, and eventually die of dropsy.* It is difficult to prescribe positive rules on so abstruse a subject, where necessity either obliges us to decide on the propriety of passing the hand into the cavity of the uterus to detach the pla- centa from its parietes, or resign the office wholly to nature. In such ambiguous cases, where gestation has been completed, the os uteri will generally be found more relaxed and dilated, than after premature births; under which cir- cumstances, and free from haemorrhage, manual * I wish to impress on the mind of the accoucheur, that his attention ought not to be limited altogether to the quantity of blood lost, but keep in view the impression made on the system, as a more certain prognostic, for this will cesfem pariftMS be in proportion to its violence.224 attempts to promote the expulsion of the pla- centa are more likely to prove successful, and be also productive of less irritation and fever to the patient, than after abortions where similar exertions have been unnecessarily employed. When uterine haemorrhage takes place from the period of the termination of labour accom- panied with retained placenta, distention, laxity, and torpitude of the uterus, it abiiost always as- sumes an inauspicious appearance, unless timely checked by artificial aid; and it is scarcely pos- sible to bring the whole of our auxiliary means into operation, or lay down any definite and determinate mode of practice to be invariably adopted on every emergency. Yet it will be acknowledged that some 2:eneral rules of practice may be useful in aiding the judg- ment, and directing the steps of the accoucheur; actuated by this principle, a prudent practitioner will seldom be at a loss how to proceed, if he bear in mind, that in cases of retained placenta there is a period of necessity as well as oi'electum; indications which should govern us in determin- ing the precise time when to proceed, and the path we ought to pursue in the operation, lest by indecision, the life of the sufferer be forfeited. When once the accoucheur has engaged in a case of midwifery, whatever danger may a^isail the patient, his responsibility is at stake, and though225 a temporary suspension of hemorrhage occurs, we are not in this situation to look at the bright side of the case, but steadily apply whatever remedies we may think proper, and watch every change of symptom with unwearied attention, foregoing all other interested views and engage^ ments, whatever may be the result. It is however on the whole desirable, and what I wish to inculcate, that the expulsion of the placenta should follow the delivery of the child in the space of from one to two honrs, according to the exigency of the case, rather than be left entirely to the efforts of nature, or be extracted immediately on the birth of the child, Should a profuse uterine haemorrhage take place on the delivery of the child, and before the exit of the placenta, and continue without restraint to discharge florid blood from tlie uterine vessels opening into its cavity, it is truly alarming, and calls for immediate assistance. Thus situated, the urgency of the case justifies the propriety of promptly removing the contents of the womb, without delay. Hence we should not halt at this stage, nor hesitate and falter between the contrariety of opinions on this obstetric question, as the OS uteri may by delay, become perma- nently contracted on the placenta, and defeat our attempts to introduce the hand, and thereby exr pose the woman to much hazard, Pursuant to226 the foreineiilioned iiistruclions, and daring- this important crisis, the accoucheur ought watch- fully, and at frequent intervals, to inspect the actual state of the neck of the uterus and ex- tent of discharge, so as to ascertain every change which may take place, lest its contractile power be lost and a duluge of blood supervene, and the woman be thereby exposed to a fatal catastrophe. Guided by a knowledge of the agency of this viscus, we shall be able to ascertain on most occasions, the cause of the retention of the pla- centa, and thereby be led to adopt the best ex- pedient for its removal which the art suggests, before the uterus and vagina become contracted to a degree which would render the introduction of the hand impracticable, without incurring dan- ger to the patient, and perplexity to the operator. At the same time we must remember that the woman will unavoidably suffer further depletion by the efforts used in extracting the placenta, however dexterously effected. Sometimes the navel string is implanted near the edge of the placenta, and a partial separation from the uterus is the consequence; during which a portion of it may get wedged in the axis of the pelvis, or cervix uteri, so as to block up the pas- sage, and an haemorrhage take place into the uterine cavity, and produce fainting and distention of the abdomen. Such an occurrence should not227 be overlooked, and it requires an early iavestiga tion of the state of the parts, as well as of the time during which the extravasated fluid has existed in the uterus, lest putrefaction and absorption take place. By this enquiry the accoucheur will be enabled to regulate his proceedings. Thus situated, it may be prudent to accomplish delivery by taking hold of the funis with one hand, and keeping it distended, while the fingers of the other are insinuated along the cord; by which means the position of the placenta may be adjusted, and if no other obstacle intervene, it may be extracted without delay as before directed. If, nevertheless, its detention in utero arise from a temporary defect or suspension of the contractile powers of that organ, in consequence of being harrassed by officious interference or exhausted by protracted labour, in either case, by gentle pressure on the abdomen with the hand, the substance of the uterus in the region of the pubis will convey an uncontracted and flabby feel to the touch, and not that tense globular sensation which is usual in cases where art has not interposed, and where nature is able to effect her own purpose. On these occasions, it but too often happens that hsemorrhage immediately follows labour, and the accoucheur should scrupulously avoid pulling at tlie funis,-lest a disruption or detachment of the placenta, from its connection with the surface of228 tilt; Uterus, or au inversion of this viscus fol- low ; which event might, through temerity or in- attention, expose the woman to imminent danger. The connecting medinm between the inner sur- face of the uterus and the ovum, is supported by an innumerable multitude of small vessels, and where the placenta is attached they are much larger than at any other part. It is a general opinion, that every discharge of blood from the uterus during gestation, proceeds from the detachment of a portion of the placenta or its membranes from the superfice of the uterus; but in some peculiar instances, where the cake has been fixed to the fundus uteri, doubts have been entertained on this point * These opinions may be reconciled by supposing that a line of detachment exists in the decidua, continued from the substance of the placenta to the cervix uteri, by which channel the blood may escape, or the connecting vessels possibly be ruptured by , accident, or a preternaturally increased velocity of the circulation in a plethoric state of the system. For the developement produced will affect chiefly those parts of the uterus which are most vascu- lar and least passive, and consequently those in the vicinity of the os uteri, and that part where the placenta is situated. » Andrea Pasta was of this opinion./ 3-29 Son.etimes slight discharges of blood will at i„tervals occur during gestation, and yet the woman go to her full reckoning; tins spec.es of ha,n,orrhage is not directly uterine, but may b rather imputed to a rupture of the vessels of the false chorion of the ovum, and not to any detach- ment of the placenta itself from the uterus. Rest and a recumbent posture are the chief remedies m these cases. . , There are instances of concealed uteruie he- morrhage, ^^'hich I have reason to believe merit more attention than what is usually bestowed on them In this obscure affection, a circumscribed portion of the placenta is detached from the uterus during gestation, whilst the membranes adhering around,* the blood is empaled in this local space between them and the parietes of the uterus. It is probable that this separation of the two surfaces is frequently the consequence of some sudden and unexpected jolt or concussion of the body, by which an effusion is produced ; and on remam- ino- iu this situation for a time, inflammatory ac- tion is excited, a deposition of coagulable lymph * Albinus relates a case of this kind. Vide Acad. Annot. lib I. page 56. See also M. Baudelocque and Leake, on child- bed fever, vol. II, page 294.-Noortwyk, in his History of the Gravid Uterus, has, though contrary to the opuno., of most Authors, asserted that the parts will adhere again and gesta- tion be coiiiplclcd, sec page 21. 1.230 or inorhid aflTection of the placenta is the conse- quence, and a dispartin-^ of the connecting blood- vessels of the two organs the result. Such an oc- currence may be ascertained on an enquiry into the proximate cause, by a careful examination of the uterine region, which on pressure will give pain to the patient; and the distended ;?ane^e* will some- times also disclose the part of the viscus where the collection is seated, as though it were in a bag from which no discharge takes place externally to forewarn the accoucheur of danger. If the breach is considerable and the fluid be pent in this enclosure for a space of time sufficient to produce a vitiation of its contents the expulsive action of the uterus will probably be excited pre- maturely and labour follow; during this event clots of collected blood will be occasionally forced out, and should this evacuation be accompanied with active haemorrhage in the early months of gestation whether proceeding from fluid blood escaping outwardly or from internal disruption of the vessels which communicate with the ma- ternal portion of the placenta, the os uteri being at the same time rigid and but little dilated, the course to be pursued ought to be first directed towards checking the hemorrhage, by securing a recumbent posture, cold applications to the abdo- minal, region, plugging the vagina, and injecting a cold opiate clyster up the rectum, which will be231 generally snffieieat to secure the womairs safety. On the other hand, where gestation is completed and these means fail in suppressing the flooding, or preventing mcreased tension of the abdomen, and the uterine action recurs at regular intervals, and the woman exhibits symptoms of multiplied danger; we may first rupture the membranes and if the haemorrhage be not soon suppressed, it may be prudent to proceed to deliver by cautiously insinuating the fingers successively through ihe os uteri by the side of this viscus, till the whole hand has gained admittance. The feet of the foetus may be seized by the hand, the body turned, and delivery effected in the usual way. It is manifest that in cases of haimowhage during gestation, unless the volume of the preg- nant uterus be either wholly or in part disbur- dened of its contents, the diameter of the lacer- ated vessels cannot be diminished ; consequently, the flooding will be uninterrupted, and delivery, under these circumstances, could not be dis- pensed with, without exposing the woman to great danger. The immediate removal of the placenta after the birth of the child, in this complex state of concealed uterine haemorrhage, becomes abso- lutely necessary whether the cake be attached to the fundus, or implanted near the cervix, for232 though the separation be only partial, and the ex- tent of detachment trifling-, or the lia3inorrhage slight, much of the vital fluid may pass away in- sidiously, and inattentively the \von»an may suf- fer harm particularly if that part of tiie uterus be diseased, where the blood has been enclosed. Uteiine haemorrhage and convulsions may be ranked among the most alarming and dangerous occurrences which befall a state of parturition ; and from the construction and functions of the female system, it will appear probable that she can sustain depletion only to a certain extent, proportioned to the quantity and rapidity of the discharge. If the flooding be accompanied with convulsions or other morbid affections of the sys- tem, the maladies become exasperated, though possibly the sufferer might have endured the af- fliction "with comparative impunity, if there had not been a complication of dangerous symptoms. Another species of extravasation, though of less importance than the forementioned, is one of a Capsular nature which has sometimes been discovered ;* but the true diagnostic of this pe- culiar affection is involved in much obscurity. It is supposed to originate in consequence of an ex- udation of fluid into a cavity formed by a separa- * For a more particular account of these diseases, see the works of M. Baudelocque, Levret, De La Molte, and Albinus, Lib. I, chap. 9, pages 34 and 36.2m tioii of a part of the membranes \yiiicli euvelo|jed the foetus, without having any direct connection either vv ith the internal surface of the uterus or vascular part of the placenta. It is manifest that in this kind of concealed extravasatioii, no blood can escape externally- prior to a rupture of the membranes, vvhether induced incidentally, or caused by some morbid affection of the involucra, under which circum- stances no alarming- haemorrhage car! assail the patient, and the mode of treatment must be con- sonant with the directions already noticed in the foregoing- pages. ' In some instances, though no hiemorrhage fol- low either the spontaneous expulsion, or the artificial extraction of the placenta, a portion of the membranes of the ovum, or clots of coagulated blood may be retained for several days in the passage, and become putrid and occasioii an of- fensive lochial discharge from the vagina, attended with constitutional irritation, qnick vibrating pulse, dry skin, parched tongue, tympanites, and eventually diarrhoea. In such cases, t^ie fre* quent use of antiseptic injections thrown into the vagina and os internum, together with saline medi- cines joined withipecacuan wine, given in the act of effervescence, a blister applied on the abdomen, with a liberal supply of subacid fruit, and a careful attention to the state of the skin, an4 2g234 varying- condition of the bowels, rank aiiion<; the most appropriate remedies for abating the febrile symptoms so frequently occurring during the puerperal state. In these adverse cases, where coagula is formed in the cavity of the uterus, its successive extraction appears more ad- visable, than permitting it to remain and become putrid ; and its removal may be eftected with the finger, without denuding the ends of the vessels leading into the uterine cavity, for by abrading their surface, a recurrence of the haemorrhage might be produced. On all occasions after the extraction of the placenta, when attended with haemorrhage, the patient should be kept in a recumbent position, till syncope and every appearance of flooding cease, and after a lapse of sometime when the vital energy has returned, she may at intervals be al- lowed to sit up in bed for a little while, by which the lochia will be prevented from becoming stag- nated in the passage. Her spirits and state of exhaustion should he supported by light cooling cordials, and all ac- tive medicated stimulants be strictly debarred; all wet cloths must be removed from the bed, and a gentle compression made on the abdomen, by means of a broad bandage passed round her body. During the period of lying-in, quietude should235 be rigidly enjoined, and the patient's room freely ventilated, particularly during the summer months. The bed linen should be frequently changed, and her diet consist chiefly of caudle or oatmeal gruel well boiled and given free from spirituous liquors. Tea or coffee is also a useful beverage, and may be indulged in ad libitum. The state of the bowels should be attentively watched during the whole confinement, and a motion invariably procured within twenty-four hours subsequent to the event of child-birth. The long disused project of resuscitation by Transfusion, in cases of animals apparently dying from sudden depletion of the vital fluid, has been lately revived in this country, and it is presumed with reasonable prospect of success. This expedient was practised by many able physiologists as far back as the year 1664, both on the Continent and in this country; during which period a warm controversy existed be- tween the French and English physicians, each claiming the merit of the discovery, as due to his own country; though it must be acknowledged the Parisian physiologists were certainly the first who tried the scheme upon the human subject. There has however nothing of importance transpired on the question, till the late interesting experiments published by Dr. Blundell, of Lon- don, from which it appears very i)robable that re-2SG suscitation, may be advaiilageously produced by means of liuiiiaii venous blood being transfused from a syringe into the veiiis of a patient, whose life is tlireatened by violerit hjiemorrhage, and where death would be inevitable without such expedient. For a particular account of the immerous ex- periments which have at different times been made by physiologists, on this interesting sub- ject, the reader may consult the works of Di- onis, Permannus's Chirurgia Curiosa, Etniuller, Heister, and the Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, Vol. 6.237 n. ON THE IRREGULAR AND SPASMODIC ACTION OF THE UTERUS AND ENCYSTED PLACENTA. The uterus, like other muscular organs, is oc- casionally liable to irregular actions of its fibres, either during the period of parturition, or after- Avards; and this is a frequent and important cir- cumstance attendant on uterine haimorrhage. The spasmodic action of the uterus may, 1 conceive, be very properly classed under two distinct heads, namely, simple and compound. The simple spasmodic actions are such as only partially affect the neck of the uterus. Under the compound may be included all those irregular morbid cotistrictions acting on the middle as well as on the cervix uteri, and which bear the appella- tion of the hour-glass contraction. The prema- ture separation and expulsion of the ovum from the uterus, is an invariable prognostic of abortion or miscarriage, and its approach is always mdi- cated by uterine action, and sometimes attended with haemorrhage. It is a fact meriting the attention of the accou-2.38 clieur, that women are more liable to miscarriage than any other species of animals,* probably owing in some measure, to the physical deterioration arising out of a depraved state of the social economy in their respective stations of society: and though our knowledge of the physiology of generation and gestation may not equal that at- tained in the other departments of natural science, yet from observation, there is ground to believe that abortions increase in equal proportion to the habits of voluptuousness.f The most frequent irregular and partial contractions of the cervix uteri occur during or after abortions, about the middle period of pregnancy, and are sometimes accompanied with flooding. When these inordinate contractions of the neck of the uterus happen soon after the birth of the fa?tus, (though seldom strictly spasmodic unless excited by agitations of the mind, or untimely interference during labour) they usually oppose the spontaneous expulsion of the placenta in an inverse ratio, to the advancement of gestation ; and nothing is more likely to excite the almost uncontrollable agency of this viscus, than the precipitate act of artificially rupturing the mem- * Vide Edinburgh Medical Essays, Vol. 2. Page 233—234. t It is no less deplorable than true, that inebriely forms one of the most frequent causes of this malady.239 branes, with the view of facilitating the progress of abortion. But at this premature period of gestation, unless ha;morrhage or convulsions occur, we need not be over-solicitous about the deliverance of the placenta. I would rather leave it to be expelled by the efforts of nature, which will generally be effected with perfect safety in less than twenty-four hours after the birth of the child. When there is a partial detachment of these two organs, accompanied with flooding, spasm, and rigidity of the os tincae sufficient to preclude the admission of the hand with safety under these adverse circumstances, it has been the practice of some authors to extract the pla- centa by means of instruments constructed for that purpose; but this dangerous and unnecessary expedient is now exploded.* If the patient should appear much exhausted by a continued emission of blood from the uterus, I would, in the first place, earnestly recommend palliative measures, such as injecting a full stream of cold water into the vagina, the application of a solution of ice or nitre in cold water, put into a bladder and laid on the region of the uterus and pubis, together with the use of such medi- cines as have been already mentioned. * See BurtGu's System of Midwifery, and Levret's V Art des Accouchmens.240 Plugging-the vagina and nioiitli of the uterus completely willj lint, tow, or sponge soaked in a strong sohition of alum, with equal portions o( cold water and vinegar firmly supported by ihe T bandage, and by allowing the [)lug to remain a few hours in this position, keeping the patient cool and quiet in a horizontal posture. '^I'hus a coa- gnlum will probably form, and the haemorrhage cease. The bandage may then be removed, and the placenta and plug will be generally expelled at the same time, by the united eftbrts of the abdominal muscles and uterus. Should any flooding ensue, recourse may be had to replacing the plug, and adjusting the bandage as before- mentioned, and from its utility in checking ha;- morrhage, (particularly after premature births) I have frequently witnessed the most decided benefit. But when this is adopted after dv^^livery at full time, much caution will be required ; for the uterine parietes being more expanded and less disposed to contract after gestation is conq^leted, than in cases of abortion, and the bloofl vessels having poured out their contents into the uterine cavity, should the plug be fixed in the vagina, the uterus would be again distended, if the haemorr- hage be profuse, and thus its contraction wo\ild be prevented whether the evacuation proceed from arterial or venous sources, or both.341 This may he oh\ iatcnl chiefly by the application of a steady and well regulated counter-pressure, niiifornily continued on the hypogastric region, prior to the introduction of the plug, by means of a broad roller passed a few times round the body, and over the lower part of the abdominal region: although by this mechanical mode of treatment, the womb may not have permanently contracted so as to shut completely the mouths of the vessels on the surface, from which a part or the whole of the placenta had been disparted. Yet the discharge will be repressed, and in this way profuse uterine haemorrhage may be restrain- ed ; and in cases of great exhaustion, during the formation of coagiila in the ends of the bleeding vessels, immediate danger be frequently averted. Hence uterine haemorrhage subsequent to the middle period of gestation and parturition, in whatever degree it presents itself, or however insidious its nature may be, requires from the accoucheur the most unremitting attention. It may be venous, as well as arterial, so that the application of the plug, assisted with the bandage and pressure on the abdominal region, with the view of promoting coagulation of the effused fluid, appears an eligible and probable means of afford- ing relief. It frequently gives time for the vvo- man to recover from the state of apparent exhaus- tion, to which she has been by depletion exposed, 2 H242 as the flux of blood if suffered to pass away with impunity, might eventually prove an harbinger of danger. The extent of uterine haemorrhage in abortive cases, is not always commensurate with the stage of gestation, but is dependant on a combi- nation of contingent and constitutional causes peculiar to the sex; and particularly imputable to the imperfection of the connecting media be- tween the placenta and uterus. . Hence our endeavours to control any profuse discharge, should be chiefly directed to abate the general circulation of the system, excite the con- tractions of the uterus, and diminish the ex- tent of surface formed by the disunion of the placenta from its site of the uterus, and the dia- meter of the blood vessels which enter the cavity of that viscus. It is a well known fact, that some females are constitutionally predisposed to abortions and re- tained placenta; from which incidents we may sometimes be enabled to date the cause of morbid uterine affection, especially where power- ful deobstruent medicines indiscriminately given, or manual attempts have been rashly made to extract it on former occasions. In cases of miscarriage at an early period of gestation, attended with haemorrhage, where the passing of the hand into the uterus is either243 unnecessary or impracticable to effect the trans- mission of the contents of the ovum, and when the sanguineous discharge has been unabated for a long- time, the accoucheur may, with propriety, in addition to the fore-mentioned measures, have recourse to opium, astringent injections thrown up the vagina uteri, and cordials as auxiliary re- sources ; particularly if the sufferer be advanced in years, and the system much reduced. Spasmodic affections of the uterus present va- rious degrees of irregular contractions, and often prove embarrassing to the accoucheur, when occurring during the extraction of the placenta. In the longitudinal form of contraction, the fundus uteri assumes a state of atony, whilst the inter- mediate muscular fibres of that organ support a spasmodic action, and it becomes constricted in the middle in the hour-glass form; by which irre- gularity of contractile power and structure, the placenta, when attached to the fundus, gets en- cysted or lodged in the upper chamber beyond the second entrance. This compound and oblong form of contracted uterus, may be ascertained to extend its fundus upwards above the umbilicus, by the application of the hand on the hypogastric region, and its structure will appear to the touch as though it was encircled with a tight ligature, leaving a transverse sulcated impression on the part.2J4 I'hc coiupoinitl li()iii-<«lass roini of coutiaction may enclose the substance of the placenta, so tliat one portion of the mass 1 have known situated in the upper, and tlie other in the lower cavity of this organ; this is the most dangerous and per- plexing species of spasmodic affection of the uterus, and always requires greater caution and judgment in the mode of conducting the placenta, than the ovi-form contraction. If the woman be not much affected with syn- cope, a strong opiate may be given to relax the spasm, and induce a corresponding action of the uterine fibres ; after which the accoucheur may proceed to introduce his hand cautiously up the vagina uteri, taking care not to separate any por- tion of the placenta from its surface as it passes along, till it gets beyond the encircled part of that viscus, lest h-aemorrhage be produced ; and having gained access into the upper chamber, he may then commence the operation, and effect the separa- tion from above downwards. By these means the fundus will have liberty to contract on the hand as it is withdrawn along with the placenta. If the extraction be attempted by commencing the oper- ation near the cervix or lower cavity of the uterus, and before the spasm of the column uteri be re- moved, an haemorrhage will inevitably ensue, and the patient be thereby exposed to imminent danger in the interim, or during the removal of215 the remaining- poiiion of the mass fioni the upper recess of the vvouil). In some instances, where gestation has not been completed, the os uteri is found contracted liice the mouth of a purse upon the funis, anterior to the substance of the placenta, immediately after the birth of the foetus, and before the uterus has extruded its contents. In this simple spasmodic condition of the or- £> an, there is fortunately little or no haemorrhage; therefore any attempt to extract the placenta either by means of drawing at the funis, or the introduction of the hand, is too obvious to require any comments. When the spasm which affects the funis is relaxed and flooding ensues, the ope- rator may have recourse to extracting the pla- centa at discretion, being governed in his steps by the urgency of the symptoms, and state of the pa- tient. If on the other hand, the spasm continue unai3ated, the accoucheur may try the use of opi- ates given internally, and friction assiduously ap- plied on the uterine region, and eventually trust to time and the efforts of nature, before attempt- ing to extract the placenta by manual efforts. These different forms of spasmodic action of the uterus, have been observed by most writers on midwifery; and I am induced from long ob- servation to believe, that this morl)id uterine ac-246 tion is liable to attack some constitutions more frequently, and in a greater degree than others. Profuse uterine haemorrhage occurring imme- diately on the termination of labour, \vhether the placenta be expelled or not, is always alarm- ing ; and many sudden deaths have happened be- fore means could be used to check, the flooding, or restore the vital energy of the system. On other occasions, convulsions and syncope have either accompanied or succeeded labour, and their impressions on the vital functions have sometimes announced a sudden and fatal catas- trophe.* With respect to diseases so alarming in their nature* authors appear to entertain very discor- dant notions, particularly regarding their prox- imate cause. I am nevertheless disposed to be- lieve that those females who are predisposed to hysteric affections, cramp, or spasm, either prior to or during gestation, are more liable to con- * All unexpected and violent impression operating on I lie feiuale mind during parturition, has no (iou!)t great influence over the system. I have witnessed more than one instance of sudden death succeeding labour, from such cause, and many more are recorded by obstetrical writers. The wife of Phinehas, as narrated in the I. Book of Samuel, chap. 4, verses 19 and 20, is the first interesting history we have recorded wliich bears any aftinily to affections of this nature.247 vulsions, «nd what may be termed sul)hcaiio ma- tricis than others, and when excited by the pecu- liarities consequent on a state of gestation or parturition, the vital energy becomes more rea- dily suspended. Some authors suppose that suf- focation of the uterus is caused by a morbid af- fection of all the natural, vital, and animal func- tions, proceeding from a disaffected state of the womb. Sudden death may also take place in conse- quence of other causes, where the means of art are either not at hand or unavailing in their ef- fects ;* such as aneurisms of the aorta, ossifica- tion of its valves, rupture of the pulmonary ves- sels, organic lesion of parts, and affections of the brain. I have known several melancholy in- stances of death taking place immediately on the birth of the child, or the exit of the placenta, when such event was wholly unexpected, and the proximate Cause perfectly obscure. Two cases of suffocation during labour have also occurred in my practice, one of which was caused by a stricture of the oesophagus, and the other from a large bronchial tumour pressing on the trachea; in both these cases I was called in * The much lamented and disastrous occurrence which lately overwhelmed with sorrow the British Empire, appears to have had some alliance with this obscure disease.24S too late, or \\w life of the fo'ttis might, in eacli instance, iiave been preserved by means of the CaBsarean oijeration. The mode of treatment ))ursued by tlie an- cients, appears to have been greatly diversified, when compared with that of the moderns ; for it is obvious from their v^Titings that they adopted with unwaried exertion the use of the most sti- mulating antispasmodic remedies, both exter- nally and internally; whilst practitioners in this enlightened age, seem to possess no determined course of practice, and stand aghast as mere spectators, whilst the unfortunate patient on some occasions, it is to be feared, sinks under the dis- ease without prompt and decisive means being used. Many interesting accounts of resuscitation in cases of suspension of the vital principle, inci- dent to parturition, might be adduced. Pliny says, that women have apparently died under afflictions of the uterus, and been afterwards le- stored to life after a lapse of several days, and adds, that on such disastrous events, it was not, in his time, allowed that the person should be interred before the expiration of three days.— Forestus relates a case somewhat similar, and Ambrose Pare mentions a lady who after being considered dead, revived again, on the surgeon making an incision into the body, for the purpose249 of dissection. In a treatise on this subject by Or. Engletnan, there is a case of a woman who soon after delivery, lay for upwards of a quarter of an hour apparently dead. A maid servant anxious for the recovery of her mistress, applied her mouth to her's, and blew with all her force, and in a little time the woman revived. The reader can scarcely help being struck with the coincidence of this method of resuscitation with that adopted by Elisha, in the case of the Shu- nammite's son, as recorded in the ?nd Book of Kings, chap, iv, verses 34 and 35. Without recapitulating the various remedies which have been pointed out by writers, as ap- plicable to cases where the vital principle* has been suspended, or attempting to establish a cri- terion of death,f under such complicated affec- * Galvanism, in my opinion, ranks among the most promising agents for reanimation. t It is a melancholy reflection to read of instances where per- sons have apparently died suddenly, and been prematurely com- mitted to their graves; such facts, however, may be found in the works of different authors. See Hildanus, Diembraeck, Vesalius, Morgagni, Peter Zacchias, in his Q. Med. Leg, Tom. 3, Tiilly's Narrative P. 90, Curry on Apparent Death, Granger's Biograpiiical History of England, Vol. I. Page 330, and an interesting work entitled, The uncertainty of the Signs of Death and the danger of Precipitate Interment with Dissections, written by a Physician, illustrated with Copperplates, dated 174(?, also Taylor on the Pangerof Premature Interment. 2 I250 tions, I may be allowed to suggest the propriety of establishing it as a general rule of practice, that every possible means of resuscitation be as- siduously employed for some time, after all visible signs of life have disappeared, or as long as the body retains the least degree of warmth. In some perverse instances, I have found the adhesion of the placenta to the uterus so firm and complete, as to appear on examination to be only one viscus, in which case, if neither flooding nor other untoward circumstance occurred, I deemed it proper to withdraw my hand and wait till the natural contractions and expulsive efforts returned, after which the placenta might be in some degree disengaged from the uterus. Tf in such circumstances, extraction be found neces- sary, the operation will be more easily accom- plished, and the patient will be exposed to less risk, than if undertaken in the first instance, prior to the recurrence of uterine action, and while the two organs are so firmly connected together. Philip Pue, a celebrated accoucheur of Paris, in bis Prax. Obstetr. 2. Chap. § 2, relates an instance which happened in his own practice, when being called to perform the Caesarean Section on a pregnant woman, whom he supposed to be dead, on cutting the integuments of the abdomen, he perceived, though too late, a trembling of the woman's body, and evident motion of her legs, and grinding of her teeth. This mistake he ob- served, so filled his mind with terror that he vowed never m fa- ilure to attempt the like operation.251 When the uterus manifests its natural contrac- tions, at regular intervals during labour, or subse- quent to that event, the expulsive powers are alone usually sufficient to dislodge its contents, with- out artificial assistance; but in those morbid cases, where the detention of the placenta arises from the permanent contraction of its muscular fiibres, the rational and prudential interference of art becomes necessary, after a lapse of time, ac- cording to the symptoms and circumstances of the case. In those more complicated affections result- ing from a full parturient state, and where the neck of the uterus spasmodically contracts on a small portion of the substance of the placenta, before it is allowed time to be expelled from its recess, or the funis becomes embraced by inordi- nate action, we meet with an important barrier to its natural ejection; and when haemorrhage is a prominent symptom, the accoucheur should be guided in his proceedings, by the distension of the uterus, state of the os tincee, and the fluidity, and. quantity of blood lost in a given time. In these cases, a circumspect mode of treatment, and extraction, should be promptly adopted, accord- ing to the nature and urgency of existing symp- toms, as an apparently trifling delay may some- times expose the woman to irretrievable debility or imminent danger.252 But prior to artificial means, it may be prudent to attempt to subdue the inordinate vascular ac- tion of the uterine system, by the administration of an Enema up the rectum, composed of six ounces of cold water, and 120 minims of Tinct. opij, with a drachm of assafcetida, and a draught may also be given containing 60 drops of Tinct. opij. If under such inauspicious circumstances, the exclusion of the placenta do not take place in a quarter or half an hour, whether it be con- nected with haemorrhage or aggravated by the lapse of time, subsequent to the event of parturi- tion ; it is satisfactory to know that such prepa- ratory steps will tend greatly to facilitate the ma- nual attempts ; as this dernier resource, on such pressing occasions, should be undertaken with the utmost deliberation and caution, and not be- fore the influence of the opiate be perceptible on the system. Previously to this, the patient should be placed horizontally on the bed, on her side, and the accoucheur's finger nails being first pared, and his hand and arm as high as the elbow smeared with oil or lard, the fingers and hand should then be modelled into a conical shape, and gently introduced into the vagina. If the spasm of the cervix uteri be so power- ful as wholly to environ the funis, the operator should proceed by introducing one finger first, and the others in succession, gently pushing on-253 ^val•(ls by the side of the funis through the os uteri, with a seinirotatory motion, till the whole hand has passed this contracted resistance. In this situation it should be kept moving for the space of ten or fifteen minutes, or till the spasm of the cervix uteri be overcome. The stimulating motion of the hand will, in some de- gree, expedite the operation; if the adhesion should be complete, the disunion is much fa- cilitated by a gentle pressure made with the other hand upon the hypogastric region, to steady the uterus.* The separation of the placenta from the upper part, must be first gradually and cautiously attempted by insinuating the ends of the fingers betwixt the membranes and uterus, and sliding the hand from side to side; a dis- union will thus be produced, as though it were done by a cutting instrument, through the whole extent of the attachment; and the cake, if pos- sible, should be preserved entire and brought to the cervix uteri, where it may be allowed to re- main till the cooperating efforts of the fundus assist in propelling it forwards; by which action, the whole placenta will be excluded, and the operator's hand may then be withdrawn along * This proceeding is indispensably necessary on all occasions which require the hand to be passed into the uterus, whether in cases of adherent placenta, or in preternatural presentations of the fuel us when employed in tinning.!^54 wilb any coiigula remaining in the passage. In this, as well as in the conijDound species of re- tained placenta, when lodged in the superior re- cess, whetlier adhering to, or totally detached from the uterus, forms no cogent objection to the propriety of manual extraction, when aided by antispasmodic medicines as has been before re- commended, and keeping in view the state of the patient, and not removing the placenta dur- ing a state of deliquium animi. Ill cases of uterine spasm, the effect of small doses of opium on the system proves generally very fugitive, and it is necessary to observe in this place, that on all occasions where this viscus is spasmodically affected, the dose administered should be proportioned to the urgency and de- gree of the existing symptoms and state of the patient. Were it necessarj^ I could adduce a consider- able number of cases of spasmodic affection of the uterus, both from my own practice, and the works of different obstetrical authors; but it will be perceived by referring to the Chronological re- cord of authorities at page 200, that those writers who invariably adopt immediate extraction, must have likewise practised the indiscriminate intro- duction of the hand through the os uteri, for the purpose of extracting the placenta, whether this organ was then in a lax or spasmodic condition,255 without either trusting to the expulsive efforts of imture, or attempting to counteract h-regular mor- bid action, by remedies appropriate to the constitu- tion : hence there is reason to believe, that such a mode of practice must have been frequently at- tended with hazard to the patient; and it is one on which we can found no rational or satisfactory criterion of success. Though T am ready to acknowledge that the conducting of this process of parturition requires more than ordinary promptitude and resolution, without incurring risk to the patient; I would however, by no means be considered as coun- tenancing any undue and abrupt efforts to sur- mount the difficulties in question, even in the most adverse cases. Yet I am persuaded it sometimes becomes necessary (even when assisted by the use of medicine) to use very considerable manual force and perseverance, to overcome the resisting power of the uterus. There is also rea- son to believe from the circuitous manner in which its muscular fibres are arranged, that it possesses a greater degree of elasticity of texture, than most other organs of the human body, and is also less liable to injury ; for it is by the combined influence of these muscular powers, that the na- tural and permanent contractions of the womb are produced, and haemorrhage suppressed. This phenomenon, when fully understood by the ac-250 conclienr, will tend lo oxplsiin the important fact, that woman in a parturient state, will bear a greater loss of blood from the uterus, without suflering- death; than from any otiier cause. Notwithstanding- the utmost dautioil and promptitude in cases of mor])id retained placenta and uterine haemorrhage, the system sometimes becomes exhausted, and the patient inevitably sinks from debility or dies from convulsions. I am therefore induced to remark, that no situation connected with parturition, involves greater dan- ger to the woman, or puts the talents of the ac- coucheur more to the test than this ; for on the one hand, either a scientific knowledge of the resources of nature and art is exhibited to the anxious spectators, or on the other, there is a display of timidity and ignorance, which may accelerate the fate of the patient entrusted to his citre, ort'ni>f Menorrhagia lochialis, as well as leucorrhopa, are diseases often consequent on uterine haemorr- hage. The use of gentle exercise iit ^ the"-open air, sea bathing, topical applications on the re- gion of the uterus, the use of bitters and tofiics, such as the preparations of iron with Extr. Cin- chona?, Tinct. Lyttae, Sulphuric Acid, and the in- jection of astringent and antiseptic liquids, two or three times a day into the vagina; ^dl-e'amongst the most appiolDriate remedies for these diseases.257 III. ON'the MOllBID AND PRETERNATURAL ADHE- SIONS OF THE PLACENTA TO THE UTERUS. The morbid attachment of the placenta to the uterus is fortunately not a frequent occui-rence. From its peculiar vascular structure, and suspen- sion in a cavity, exposed to the vicissitudes and evolutions consequent on the phenomena of men- struation and gestation, it is less subject to disease than at first view would appear probable; never- theless it occasionally happens that the functions of this organ become interrupted, and assume a scirrhous or cartilaginous state; and in some more rare and inveterate instances, an ossification of the blood vessels takes place. Where these ma- ladies exist during a state of gestation, the pla- centa may be suspected to partake in some degree of the same diseased structure and condition; in which state it is obvious that so formidable an obstacle, opposed to the separation of the pla- centa, will be proportionate to the extent and dejjree of the diseased attachment. In some instances of morbid adherent placenta 2 k .258 to the uteniK, the two surfaces have appeared to the touch so strongly agglutinated to each other, that they indicated only one uniform structure. In these cases I have more than once been able to retrace the cause to an injury inflicted on the uterine region during gestation, or from some more obscure cause. Under these afflicting cir- cumstances, every attempt to effect a disunion should be the result of great deliberation and care. To whatever extent such attachment exists, and after the accoucheur has waited the appro- priate time for the efforts of nature without pros- pect of advantage, he may commence the opera- tion by conveying one hand cautiously into the uterus, whilst the other is applied on the hypo- gastrium to stay that organ. If only a few lobes of the placenta be identified with the surface of the uterus, the extraction may generally be ac- complished by beginning at the in-edges, and peeling off the morbid adhesions from the uterus, thus gradually separating the different portions in succession, till a complete disunion be attained, and the substance of the placenta being grasped in the hand, the whole may be brought forth with- out further trouble. By this delicate mode of proceeding subsequent haemorrhage will generally be prevented; but if the mouth of the uterus should remain in a flaccid and extensible condition, it announces a more259 unfavourable result, and is an obvious prognostic of fainting and flooding; to obviate which, the operator may pass his hand again into the uterus, wliere it should be kept in motion till an evident contraction be perceptible to the touch, during which cold air should be freely admitted into the patient's apartment, a compress soaked in vinegar, repeatedly applied cold on the abdomen, and after the operator's hand be withdrawn, quietude and a recumbent posture strictly enjoined. In some dangerous cases, where the disease has made great progress, and a permanent and extensive union of the uterus and placenta ap- pear to have taken place, and evidently resist every prudential attempt to break through the cohesive attachments,* under such pressing exi- * The Ergot of Rye has been exhibited as an active stimulant in certain indolent and passive conditions of the uterus, by some American Physicians, and its effects are said to be exclu- sively confined to this organ, without increasing the action of the sanguiferous system. The cases in which this article has been given, are chiefly where the os uteri remains in a rigid state during protracted labour, or where it is complicated with difficulties which would render delivery immediately necessary, and when the placenta has been prevented from being separated from the uterus, also in cases of moles, dysmcnorrhsea, and hasmorr- hage, where the uterus remains in an inactive state. But I have liad no experience of its medicinal powers. This vegetable pro- duction, though introduced to notice of late as a new discovery, was used for the same purposes nearly half a century ago. See Diet. Rais. Univcrs. d' Hist. Natur.I 2()0 gency a question naturally presents itself to tiie accoucheur, whether it be most prudent to hazard a separation of tliese organic adhesions and bring the whole of the placenta away by force, or wholly abandon the expulsion to the exertions of nature ; for while a rash interference is censurable, an im- plicit confidence in the powers of nature may be equally improper. Hence the accoucheur will no doubt act in the most prudential way, by view- ing these existing difficulties in a general and relative light, and proceed accordingly, for expe- rience leads me to draw this inference; that where in one instance the protracted retention of the placenta has been attended with fatal conse- quences, its extraction by rash and precipitate measures has proved destructive to many. From these premises, and the limited resources of fiie art, it appears obviotis that whether one or the other of these means be pursued, considerable risk and danger will be unavoidably incurred to the woman: yet if the whole, or even a portion of the placenta remain detached in the uterus for any undue space of time, putrefaction and ab- sorption will generally take place, and its deten- tion eventually prove a source of much evil; such as distention of the abdomen, fever, inflammation, fetor of the lochia, constitutional irritation diarr- hoEea, putrefaction, and not unfrequently death. Under these circumstances the accoucheur \\\\\261 yield to the lesser evil, by passing his hand into the uterus at frequent intervals, and scooping out any extraneous and offensive coagula from its abode, or otherwise by the more eligible method of antisep- tic injections, as before mentioned. The retention and adhesion of the placenta to the uterus, are sometimes complicated with polypi, or hydatids, somewhat resembling a bunch of grapes> or per- haps some more vascular compact substance at- tached to this organ and pendant in its cavity ; and though it is a rare instance that some part of the circumference of the placenta is not disen- gaged from the uterus, still I would suggest to the practitioner the propriety of steering cautiously between the two fore-mentioned extreme points of practice, by introducing the hand into the uterus, and removing as much of the pendant tubercular portions as possible, without exciting haimorrhage or inflicting injury on the inner surface of the uterus by undue violence. By this cautious method of proceeding, constitutional irritation will be comparatively little excited, and subse- quent inflammation and h«morrhage in a great degree prevented. The uterus will be allowed more freedom to perform its contractile functions, than if the whole diseased mass were left to the expulsive efforts of nature. In some rare and less propitious instances, the diseased adhesions are constructed of so compact a nature, and the262 jjlacenla and its uterine surface so interwoven* with each other, that prudence dictates, under tliese insurmountable obstacles, we should rather resign our efforts to nature, and rest our subse- quent hopes on palliating the afflicting syniptonis by a strict adherence to the antiphlogistic regimen, to promote the formation of coagula in the ends of the patulous vessels, which open into the uterine cavity. To assist these indications, rest and a recumbent posture, a light diet, tranquillity of mind, the admission of cold air into the pa- tient's apartment, and avoiding the exhibition of medicated stimulants, except such as are of a mild quality ; if the deluge of blood be still pro- fuse without intermission, cold detergent injec- tions may be occasionally conveyed into the vagina uteri till the haemorrhage abates; and when it has entirely ceased, the woman's state of exhaustion in some degree restored, the uterus contracted, and danger averted : these injections may be changed for others of an antiseptic nature with much advantage, by waslnng out the extra- vasated offensive fluids two or three times a day, and thus exciting the further contractions of the uterus, and emission of the relics of the fungous mass by checking the process of putrefaction, and preventing absorption and fever. Experience has * Paroy mentions n case of this kind.2m abuiidanily proved, that by these means, aud the occasional assistance of the hand, superabundant coagula may be speedily and effectually removed as often as they form in the vagina, and putrefac- tion and absorption prevented, and the assiduous application of antiseptic injections may likewise be beneficial after the cessation of haemorrhage, by correcting the fetor and ichorous state of the lochia, which frequently follows a state of partu- rient depletion and debility. It deserves to be further remarked, that on some occasions, from organic disease, an unusual decree of cohesive attachment of the uterus and placenta to each other takes place, insomuch, that it is wholly impracticable to effect a complete disunion by means of art without incurring great danger to the patient: but should a partial dis- parting be effected by the endeavours of the ac- coucheur some degree of haemorrhage will un- avoidably follow, and either shew itself externally or internally. If in the latter case, the most uner- ring diagnostic is redistention of the abdomen by the portion of disunited cake being entangled in the aperture of the pelvis, and shutting the passage so completely that no blood can escape outwardly. This is a case which involves much deliberation and watchfulness in the accoucheur as his presence is indispensably necessary, and the precise timevind mode of removal oft ho detached and adherent j)ortioiiS of the placenta by means of the hand should be regulated according- to the extent of union and degree of haemorrhage whether internal or external. For if the internal effusion be so trivial that no distention of the abdominal parietes be perceptible to the touch, nor the discharge outwardly so copious as to produce any obvious effects on the system, the loosened part of the mass mav be allowed to remain for a time in the passage with impunity, audits presence may tend to tlie formation of coagnla, or com])ress the apertures of the blood vessels which open into the uterine cavity, and thereby diminish the impetus of the discharge till a more favourable opportunity offer for extracting the remaining adherent j)or- tion bv art, or the uterus resume its action and disburden herself by the efforts of nature. When this is accomplished, the use of detersive injections as before mentioned may be beneficial, and a solution of alum, or an infusion of galls, or oak bark, and a portion of port wine are amongst the most useful articles for suppressing haemorrhage, or preventing the putrefactive process when ad- ministered in this form. The uterus and placenta, from their vascular structure and peculiarity of functions ; are organs unavoidably exposed to a variety of morbid af-2()5 fectious, such as liyclati(ls * Polypus,'! Moles, Tyujpaiiites, spongy Tubercles, Scirrhus and Can- cer: but genuine sarcoma:l;of the body of the woiiib is not so frequent an occurrence as in the neck, or cervix, and such disease more conniionly in- vades this part of the viscus in advanced life, about the period of the final cessation of the menses than at an earlier period. This may perhaps depend on the cervix uteri being more glandular than other parts of the organ. Goagula of blood or fungous excrescences formed in the vagina,: or uterus have been frequently distinguished by the terra mole, or polypus, and have in some instances acquired such a degree of firmness and apparent vascularity, that, when implanted in the uterine cavity, they have so far distended its parietes as to exhibit the appearance of a state of gestation. * A case of hydatids io a woman three iiionths advanced in pregnancy, occurred to nie some years ago. The foetus appeared in a shriveled state, arid the placenta le^s vascular than usual, alid th^ quantity of hydatids expelfed'amounted to more than a gallon. These pellucid hydatids bore a great afhnity in structure, size, and general appearance to the vesicular congeries of frog spawn produced during the spiring season. t See M. Herhiniaux's Traile sur les Polypes de la Malrice, and also Levret on the same subject. X I have attended a case of sarcoma of the uterus, as large as ijie head of an adult. 2l266 The appellation of ii^ole is frequently employed by authors to describe very dissimilar productions. That form which is ingrafted in the uterus, and attached by a pedicle analogous to the umbilical cord, and which is also possessed of a regular series of vessels, frequently producing symptoms in common with a gravid state of the uterus, and assumes more immediately the character of ovum deforme, and in reality may be nothing but an imperfect embryo supported by vegetative influ- ence. By many writers on midwifery, almost every coagulum of blood which has remained a certain time in the uterus, and which has the slightest appearance of fibrous structure, has gone by the name of mole. I have attended many cases of this kind, and frequently examined the structure of these erratic productions of na- ture. On making an incision into their substance, some have exhibited an organized mass of flesh, similar in shape to the gizzard of a large fowl. In others the texture appeared nothing more than coagulated blood, which assumed the shape or model of the uterine cavity in which it had been lodged. In a few instances I have been able to trace a more regular distribution of vessels, and some parts of an imperfect foetus, with an ap- pendage somewhat analogous to the placenta and umbilical cord, which evidently appeared to have been united by a congeries of vessels to the267 ^ uterus, hy which niediuui, the circulation was carried on, and their growth and feeble vitality supported.* When these incongruous productions have re- mained in the uterus, for the space of one, two, or more months, the ordinary symptoms of abor- tion usually commence, and their spontaneous detrusion are sometimes followed by haemorrhage, constitutional irritation, derangement of the ute- rine system, and subsequent debility. The most appropriate remedies to restore the vigour and health of the patient are, in the first stage, the administering of febrile medicines, and eventually of the tonic form, such as chalybeates joined with cicuta and sea-bathing, a generous diet with plenty of subacid fruit, a liberal allowance of wine, and a careful attention to exercise, and the state of the bowels, lest indurated fceces should be lodged therein, and impede the patient's recovery. The mode of treatment adopted for the re- moval of these unnatural substances and diseased affections of the uterus, has been greatly diversi- fied by authors, and the chief means appears to be by medicaments, and manual operation. Fric- , _\ * Figures of lliis species of mole, with a description, are given in the Acta Parisina, 1735, Mem. 770, 778, and Clarke, in his treatise on the Diseases of Females, Vol. I. describes these vas- cular and fleshy tubercles of the uterus.feec. 37, Forestus de morbid Malierum, lib. 28, 2(5R iion on the region of tlie uterus, and the use of detergent injections thrown up the vagina, or fconveyed into the.cavity of tlie uterus itself, have been recommended for tlie purpose of exciting the propulsion of its contents, and of rendering the application of ligatures more manageable. If these indications fail, obstetrical writers have had 'recourse to a variety of uncouth instruments, the construction and management of which appears equally incommodious and dangerous, whether exercised on the os uteri, with intent to dilate its orifice, or employed in abstracting the ex- uberant contents of the womb. Some of these antiquated inventions, 1 am happy to say, are now discarded, and modern authors have substituted instruments much better adapted for the purpose. Those chiefly used on these occasions by the an- cients were. Forceps, Ligatures, Hooks, Probes, Pinchers, Dioptra, Sj)eculum Matricis, Gryphon's Talon, &c. For a sight of such inventions, and <in account of their respective uses and modes of application, the reader is referred to the works of Celsus, Paulug, Scultetus, Avicenna, Hilda- nus, Roonhiiys, Levret, Sigusmunda, Pare, Mau- riceau, Dionis, Heister, Astruc, Clarke on Fe- male Diseases, Bibliotheca Anatomica, Medica Chirurgica, Vol. 3d, Bonetus Sepulcret. lib. 3,269 and Cooper's First Lines of Surgery, Vol. 2, Page 319. The diseases incident to the uterus, for which these formidable instruments were devised, have each their characteristic symptoms; yet it must be confessed, that during their incipient stage it becomes no easy matter to discriminate between a state of gestation, and some of the morbid affec^ tions alluded to. In some instances of Polypi, or other diseased substances occupying the cavity of the uterus of vagina, a degree of irritation and inflammation has followed manual operation, and the disease has become exasperated by futile attempts to accom- plish their effectual removal. In such disastrous circumstances, practitioners have had recourse to a class of stiinulating medicines, under the title of Emmenagogues, as being possessed of a specific action on the uterine system : but I know of no medicine that is purely uterine, or that acts directly upon this viscus, independently of the rest of the body. The practice so prevalent on this occasion, of administering forcing remedies, can scarcely be too much reprobated ; for instead of producing the desired effect, they only tend to irritate the uterus, and* produce febrile action on the system. It has, I am persuaded, been more the practice to provoke the expulsion of the pla-270 cerila, by the use of tliis class of iiieiliciiies, than to prevent its retention by rational measures; for of all the remedies which the Pharmacopceia presents for our use, none are of more dangerous con- sequence than those of this class when impru- dently used. When manual attempts to extract such sub- stances from their recess, have proved Jtesuccessful, or otherwise unavailing, great attention to the general health of the patient is required ; and by way of preventing the absorption of any acrimo- nious fluid secreted during the disease, the use of antiseptic injections as before-mentioned, fre- quently thrown up the vagina, may be attended with beneficial effects in either instance. In all cases of haemorrhage, connected with the present sub- ject, however alarming, if there should appear only the most remote prospect of affording relief, we should not despair, or be induced to abate our endeavours ; but keep in view the resources which nature so often presents to aid our well directed efforts in producing a favourable result. It may appear unnecessary to caution the ac- coucheur against omitting to secure the unbili- cal cord, at its maternal end, in cases of super- numerary births ; or to point out any different mode of treatment, when succeeded by haemorr- hage. Nevertheless if the funis be left insecure,271 after tlie birth of the first child, an hainiorrimge may follow and prove dangerous to the uterine foetus, or if one placenta be detruded, whilst the the other remains in the uterus, the woman would be exposed to flooding, and danger might fol- low ; because, occasionally the placentae adhere to each other, in which case, they have generally the chorion as a common investment. But each foe- tus possesses its distinct amnios, and they are most frequently united together by intervening mem- branes, so that the vessels of the one, anastomose with those of the other. In twin cases, when the term of gestation is completed, the uterus is usually more distended than when occupied by only one ovum and foetus, and if the extrusion of the placenta be artificially accelerated, and the secondary contractions of the organ do not follow in due time, haemorrhage will be the con- sequence ; as the diameter of the uterine vessels in these cases are more distended and -cai^not so readily contract as in single birth, where the uterine surface occupies a less space, and the muscular fiibres have not been too much ex- panded. The measures to be pursued on this occasion, must have for their object, the re-excite- ment of uterine action, and the adoption of the forementioned remedies both externally and internally, according to the exigency of the symptoms.272 III order however to ol)viate all hazard result- ing from haemorrhage of the funis by this omission, in twin or triple cases, it may be laid down as a practical rule, on all occasions, to guard against precipitation, relative to the egress of the pla- centa, and invariably to tie and divide both tiie fcetal and maternal ends of the cord, on the birth of every child, immediately after it has breathed freely, and proclaimed itself to the world by crying.273 A CASE OF LABOUR IN WHICH THE EXPULSION OF THE PLACENTA PRECEDED THE DELIVERY OF THE CHILD. More than 20 years ago I was called to the wife of William Pilkiiigton, in the neighbourhood of Chorley. She was then in labour of her se- cond child, and in the last month of her preg- nancy, she had been seized the preceding day with uterine pains, accompanied by a slight dis- charge of blood at intervals, from the uterus.— The weather being warm, I recommended her to be placed in an horizontal posture upon the bed, with a lio-ht covering over her, and the admission of fresh air into the room, which, in a short time, evidently abated the evacuation. The OS tincae I found in a rigid condition, and so much contracted as not to admit the point of the fore-finger with freedom. *After waiting a few hours, and no haemorrhage recurring, I left her, with a strict injunction to in_ form m« as soon as any material change took place. Early the morning following, I was re- quested to see her again, and on entej ing the house, I found her seated on a chair, in a state of great alarm. I was informed by her attendants, 2 M274 that a profuse discharge of blood succeeded every pain, on requesting her to be conveyed to the bed on which I left her the day before, siie at- tempted to walk up stairs, and before she could reach the bed, a violent pain seized her, which instantly expelled the placenta, and disparted the funis about six inches from the child's navel. A great effusion of blood followed, and the wo- man fainted ere she could be laid down on the bed. In this alarming situation, and without hesitation, I determined to effect the delivery of the foetus by turning, and on- passing the hand up the vagina, I found the orijicimn uteri in a lax and dilated state, and the shoulder present- ing at the brim of the pelvis, and by conveying the hand past the projecting part of tlie foetus, I laid hold of its feet, and brought them down through the pelvis, whilst the shoulder receded backwards into the cavity of the uterus, and thus accomplished the delivery in a few minutes. The child appeared feeble, but soon recovered on being placed in a warm bath. A considerable haemorrhage followed the birth, on perceiving which, I returned my hand into the uterus, and by keeping it moving therein, for a short time, its contractions were renewed, the hand was then withdrawn, and the flooding abated, and though Jthe woman appeared much reduced by the loss of blood, she soon recovered.275 Cases of twins, with the intervention of se- veral days between the births of the children, are recorded by most writers on midwifery; but a simihir interval happening betwixt the delivery of the two placentas, subsequent to the foetuses, is a more uncommon occnrrence. Such a case I met with some years ago. The woman had been de- livered, during my absence, of two fine healthy children. On my return the next day, I found her restless and labouring under much pain, and slight haemorrhage at intervals; I prescribed an aperient mixture, which produced three evacua- tions from the bowels, and at bed time a draught containing 30 drops of Tinct. opij. On the following day, I called again, and per- ceiving her much in the same state as on the preceding, I was induced to lay my hand on the abdomen, which appeared uniformly distended as higli as the umbilical region, and rather tender on the application of pressure. These symptoms led me to suspect the uterus was distended with coagulated blood, and I gained permission to pass the hand up the va- gina ; and to my surprise, found the orificium uteri wholly occupied with a j}lacejita, which I readily extracted, and a large gush of offensive coagula immediately followed. Soon after this event the woman expressed herself as being much relieved by the change.—276 For several succeeding clays, there were occa- sional discharges of grumous blood from the uterus, accompanied with incipient symptoms of puerperal fever, which, after a lapse of two or three weeks disappeared, and the woman ulti- mately recovered.277 N THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF INDUCING PREMATURE LABOUR, /ITH A VIEW OF SUPERSEDING EMBRYULCIA. THE SECTION OF THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. AND THE CESAREAN OPERATION. Nec Deus intevsit nisi dignus vindice nodus.-HoRACE. It is a circumstanee well known amongst ac- coucheurs, that owmg to a morbid structure of the female pelvis, the efforts of nature are sometimes inadequate to the accomplishment of parturition, ^vithout incurring danger either to the mother or child. This impediment to labour is occasionally con- nected with a variety of contingent and unavoid- able casualties; such as the extraordinary size of the foetal head, the unyielding state of the bones of the cranium, uterine inaction, and uncertainty as to the precise stage of gestation, and the degree in which the pelvis is distorted. Yet m these peculiar difficulties, the testimony of experience, and the necessity of acting right both on moral and scientific grounds, warrant our utmost cau-278 tion ill every instance wliere there is a naiuial tl(^- formity in the female pelvis; and as the present discussion iinavoidahly embraces some of the most important interests of the conmiunity, it is presumed that no apology will be thought neces- sary for entering upon this enquiry. It appears requisite, that in such cases, every practicable expedient be tried, the results of which should be laid before the public, in order that uniformity of practice may be established in the treatment of those difficulties which occur during parturition, and which so frequently harrass the females of every civilized country. Though the morality of premature induction has been questioned by some foreign authors, its propriety appears pretty generally admitted in this country, as a substitute for Embryulcia, and it has been occasionally practised by accoucheurs of the greatest eminence, since the year 1756* with varied success; but the circumscribed limits of deformity prescribed for its necessity and safety, have not hitherto been pointed out with that degree of precision which the importance of the operation demands. How far I have been able to illustrate the subject, so as to attain this desirable end, must be left to the decision of the * Premature labour was first itiduccd in this countrv, witli success, by Di". Macaulay, of Loridoii, about liiis period.270 experienced accoucheur. Premature delivery is practised under certain peculiar circumstances of deformity, for the purpose of giving the mother a chance of bearing a living child which would otherwise have eventually perished under the hand of the operator, at the full period of ges- tation. On this obstetrical subject, it is essentially ne- cessary for the accoucheur to attend to the dis- tinctive form, diameter, axis, depth, and obliquity of the female pulvis. On the various methods of delivery, in cases of deformity, it will be indis- pensably necessary as I proceed in this enquiry, to make a few observations, without examining minutely, the advantages and inconveniences re- sulting from these respective methods of operation as generally practised. The diversities of distortion incident to the fe- male pelvis, are frequently such as to involve the accoucheur in some degree of perplexity respect- ing the best mode of delivery to be adopted, for the safety of the mother and child ; and various are the resources which have been recommended for that purpose. The cruelty too frequently inflicted on the foetus, by the use of the crotchet, and the danger attendant on the mother, under certain degrees of distortion, are reasons for the induction of premature labour, with a view of preserving the280 life of the former, and lessening the risk of tlie latter. On a superficial view of the subject, it would appear to be attended with few difficulties; but on more minute enquiry, we find that many ob- stacles present themselves, some of which are of considerable moment. Whether the removal of these lie within the sphere of the obstetrical art, or demand in certain cases, the interference of the legislature, is a question of importance to so- ciety ; it is nevertheless incumbent on every ac- coucheur, before he attempts the operation, to weigh well in his own mind the moral propriety of the practice, and when fully convinced on the subject, to exert his utmost efforts to extricate the environed foetus from impending danger.* It is manifest that premature labour should never be attempted before it has been proved by * Though the ilHcit induction of artificial abortion is incon- sistent with the dictates of nature and humanity, it has been sanctioned and made subservient to objects of legislative po- licy, as a means of abridging the number of the human race, by various nations. This crime was at one time practised to a destructive extent by the Romans, as is alluded to by Juvenal Sat. 6, versus 695, as also by Ovid. " At tenere faciunt sed nonimpune puellae, Sepae sues utero quaj necat ipsa peril." Vide also Aristotlede Republica, lib:?, chap. 16.281 the event of one or more destructive fostal births, that the pelvis was so much distorted, tliat life must have been unavoidably sacrificed before delivery could be accomplished, because a single fatal instance is not always a sufficient warrant for the operation. As the female pelvis is liable by disease to be contorted into different shapes and to suffer various degrees of distortion, so that delivery per vias naturales, is, in some instances, utterly impracticable; in these diversities of morbid curvature, art has furnished us with means of accomplishing delivery in several ways, accord- ing to the exigency of each deviation from the natural standard. Authors, however, even in the present improved state of midwifery, differ in opinion on many important points of practice, relative to the difficulties in question. It is therefore to be hoped that every laudable attempt to lessen the intricacy and dauger of parturition, will excite free enquiry and even- tually promote the general good. Before I proceed further, let me call the attention of the reader to the powers of nature in cases of labour, and request him to keep in view the relative pro- portions which the foetal head present to the re- spective apertures of the pelvis, in every individual case. The success of an accoucheur in the case before us, requires a knowledge of the structure, 2n282 <liinensions, positions, and relative proportions wliicli the inotlier's pelvis and tlie cranium of the child, bear to each other. It seldom hap- pens indeed, that the size of the fcetal head is so exactly adapted to the capacity of the pelvis, as to require no force to squeeze it along ; but although the head should be a little too large for the passage, yet the sutures suffering the bones to lap over each other, the head there- by lengthens, so as to be forced through the space by the pains, unless the pelvis happen to be very much distorted, or the bones of the cranium unusually ossified. But supposing these circumstances to occur, let us see what will be the consequence of a large head in the event of labour. In the first place, it will require longer time, and greater efforts to force it through the upper part of the pelvis; but by means of the sutures crossing each other, its bulk will be so diminished, that at length it will be forced down to the middle of the cavity of the pelvis. Here the space becoming again somewhat more contracted, the head will be re- tarded and cannot advance till such time as it is further lengthened, after which, however, if the pains are strong, it will be gradually pressed down to the lower part of the aperture, and be protruded through the os externum. The over- laying of the bones of the cranium, is a fortunate283 circumstance in protracted labours, where the apertures of the pelvis are abridged, and much time and pains required to effbct a birth; we cannot then be surprised if when the head is large, the case should prove very lingering. It must necessarily be so in the nature of thuigs; whenever therefore we find the integuments of the foetal head protuberant in the passage, though we may conclude the head is large, yet if the pains are powerful, or shoidd be gone off, if the woman has not been so long in labour, that it would be dangerous to wait for a return of them, we ought to refrain from the use of instruments of any kind, and trust the deli- very to nature, till we are fully convinced of her inefficacy. In general, however, we cannot in these cases, leave the event wholly to nature with safety, where we suspect the head large and firmly os- sified (as in cases of mere remission of the labour pains) though neither the head of the child, nor soft parts of the mother, are so much pressed upon, as greatly to endanger either. Yet, when the head is large, and the pains at the same time strong and frequent, the pressure both upon the mother and the child, if continued for a longtime, is so powerful, as frequently to endanger them both. The child may suffer by violent pressure upon the brain; and the mother may incur much284 liannhy the impulsive force exerted on tlieheadof the child, against the neck of the bladder, vagina, and the soft parts of the lining of the pelvis, and in- flammation and mortification with sloughing ensue. For the same reason, the danger of waiting in this case, will be in proportion as the pains happen to be stronger or weaker, or as they return at longer or shorter intervals; on this account, when the pains are extremely strong and recur very frequently, and the head nevertheless does not advance, it may be prudent to take away a pound of blood from the arm,* and give an opiate in order to restrain them for a while, otherwise the uterus might be in danger of being ruptured. But upon the whole, if the head be not abso- lutely too large and over-ossified, or the pelvis much distorted, there are very few cases in which the child may not be forced along and delivered with safety by the pains alone. It is therefore advisable, in all cases where the head presents, (except in extreme degrees of dis- tortion) to try first what the powers of nature will do, and never have recourse to instruments till we are manifestly certain that nature is inade- quate to perform her ofiice, and that the woman * I have long been in the habit of bleeding in protracted cases with evident benefit, particularly where the woman appeared plethoric and robust.285 cannot be delivered with safety. And it ought to be remembered, that by waiting in this manner we gain a double advantage; first, from the lengthening of the foetal head, and next from its being forced low down into the pelvis, so as to render its extraction by instruments more safe and easy. In cases where the pelvis is consider- ably distorted, the head of the foetus, if not too firmly ossified, will generally be lengthened more than in any other instances, and sometimes the labour will terminate unexpectedly by the efforts of nature; in other cases, though apparently similar, the head may be firmly ossified and get locked in the pelvis, (if the diameters are equally contracted,) insomuch that it can neither be forced down by the pains, nor be extracted by instru- ments, without first evacuating the brain and diminishing the volume of the cranium. Since, therefore, the advantages of waiting are so very great, and since nature often does the business when we should have least expected it, we ought not to have recourse to the use of in- struments, till from the circumstances of the case we are fully convinced that they are absolutely required. It is a nice point to determine on these occa- sions how long we ought to withhold our assist- ance ; if we are in too great haste to deliver, and the mother or child should suffer injury in con-286 sequence, we shall incur the danger of precipi- tation ; or on the other hand, if we leave the case wholly to nature, perhaps the injury inflicted on the brain by delay, may prove fatal to the child, and the mother exposed to danger from long continued pressure of the head, on the neck of the bladder, vagina, rectum, or perineum, and inflammation and sloughing follow. Upon the whole, therefore, we should avoid a too precipitate use of instruments on the one hand, and exposing the mother or child, or both, to imminent danger, by waiting too long on the other; all these circumstances must be maturely considered and compared with each other, such as the nature and power of the uterine pains, the length of time the woman has been in labour, the symptoms which may arise, the advances the head has made, the nature of the presentation, the form of the pelvis, the state of the soft parts, &c. From such a variety of circumstances which may be variously or unfavourably blended with each other, it is difficult to lay down any general rule that can be applied to all cases. This how- ever, ought always to be remembered, that so long as there are well founded hopes of the wo- man being safely delivered by her own efforts, we ought patiently to resign the case to nature; but, if after having waited as long as is con-287 sistent willi the safely of the mother or cliihl, and the pains strong, with the head eillier not ad- vanced at all, or resting in the middle, or at the lower part of the pelvis, we must then endeavour to assist the delivery in the best manner we are able, either by the hand alone or otherwise, by the use of such instruments as the nature of the case seems to warrant. In order that the induction of premature la- bour should effectually supersede the use of the Crotchet, the accoucheur should be well acquaint- ed with the existing degree of distortion of the pelvis, in every individual case where instruments have been used on prior occasions, as it is mani- festly requisite that such deficiency of structure, and dimensions of the pelvis, be not overlooked ; for by omitting this indispensable enquiry, the lives of both mother and child may suffer in every succeeding case where gestation is com- pleted. From the foregoing remarks it is evident, that much discrimination and judgement are required in all difficult cases; for if the head of the foetus be permanently fixed at any stage of its descent through the cavity of the pelvis, and the pains frequent and violent, it may be prudent to have recourse to manual assistance, to overcome, these impediments with either the2ft8 Forceps or Lever,* and if these fail, and the wo- man appears in danger, the Crotchet may be used as a dernier resource. It is also allowed, that cases will sometimes occur in which the head gets immoveably fixed, and cannot possibly be brought through the pel- vis with either of these instruments, so that the Crotchet becomes indispensably necessary, when in the succeeding birth, a much less obstacle may exist, and the child be born aliye, even without manual assistance. In these ambiguous cases, some practitioners are in the habit of turning; but from the difficulty of bringing the child alive, and the danger to which the mother must be frequently exposed in a strait pelvis by this operation ; I should rather trust to the application of the Lever or Forceps, and if these fail, Embryuicia will be requisite. It is in cases of this description, that the ac- coucheur should avail himself of the opportunity of becoming acquainted with dimensions of the pelvis, by tactile means, in order that premature labour may be adopted on future occasions, pro- * It is necessary to observe, that throughout this essay, I invariably allude to Lowder's lever, and the method of using it as an extractor, rather than that of a lever, as its name appears to designate.289 vidcd the degree of distortion be found to be such as renders it the most ehgible expedient. To become sufficiently acquainted with the fun- damental principles of midwifery, and to ascer- tain the exact dimensions of the various apertures of the pelvis, is a matter of the greatest moment to the accoucheur, before he determines on any artificial mode of delivery. The want of the ncr cessary knowledge acquired by the touch, may unwarily involve the practitioner in irretrievable mischief, when the extent of the deformity of the pelvis does not in reality warrant the application of instruments. The distortions of the female pelvis are gene- rally induced by Rachitis,* in the infantile state, or by Malacosteon and Exostosis in the adult, and sometimes fracture or dislocation of the bones of the pelvis, occasioned by accident, may produce an effect equally afflicting or unfortunate in its nature. * It is asserted by Dr. Osborn, that Rachitis or Mollilies Ossium, is a disease " to which quadrupeds under no circum- stances, are ever subject." On this account I may be allowed to differ in opinion from this author, for I have known many young pointer dogs afflicted with this disease chiefly in their legs, in consequence of being starved, when on having been indulged with warmth and better food, they have acquired a degree of strength equal to others of the same species, though their legs were visibly bowed afterwards, and their speed much impaired. 2o290 Malacosteon, is that species of deformity which chiefly affects females in advanced life, somethnes in a degree beyond what usually takes place in other diseases of the pelvis, and is supposed to be occasioned by a morbid disposition of the ab- sorbent vessels imbibing the earthy particles of the bones which are then conveyed into the circulating system, and eventually pass off with the urine, and leave the fabric of the pelvis in a flexible state, so that the chief weight of the body, when in an erect position, bears perpetually upon the base of the vertebral column, and causes the bones which form the pelvis to yield and project inwardly, and so much abridges its apertures that parturition, at the full period of gestation, is rendered dangerous both to mother and child. These different morbid affections and degrees of distortions incident to the female pelvis, the accoucheur should keep in view, when making the admeasurement per vaginam by the touch, or with the callipers. Under such a variety of distortions to which the pelvis is subject, it is no easy matter for the ])ractitioner to ascertain on all occasions, whether the defect be so great as to preclude the possi- bility of the head of the fcetus from passing through its apertures with impunity. Impressed with a sense of this difficulty, accoucheurs have exercised their ingenuity, and invented different291 instruments to accomplish this desirable end, which are used both externally and internally. But the hand, or fingers, when properly applied in the respective apertures of the pelvis, is the most eligible and accurate Pelvimeter which we possess, and every practitioner of the art should make himself fully acquainted with the dimen- sions of his own fingers, when placed in every possible direction. When making this indispen- sable enquiry respecting the capacity of the fe- male pelvis, and on passing the fore and middle fingers up the vagina, if the os coccyx, or any part of the sacrum or lumbar vertebrae be perceived to project unusually into its cavity ; or if the rami of the ischia approach so near each other, as to admit no more space than two fingers to be placed edgewise betwixt them, we may conclude that some degree of primary mal-conformation exists in the bones which compose one or both of these apertures. Yet it notunfrequently happens that the brim of the pelvis is inconsiderably abridged, and the inferior aperture or outlet, is even wider than natural, and to obtain an ac- curate estimation of the contour of the two straits of the pelvis in every direction, when one or two fingers are inadequate for this purpose, it is ne- cessary when admissible, to have recourse to the passing of the whole hand by the vagina into its concavity, the first three fingers of which are292 to be conducted to the brim, where the admeasure- ment may be generally ascertained, to the space of a few lines, by alternately placing- them dia- gonally in the superior strait in the following manner: ' I. —If when the hand* is conveved through the vagina to the brim of the pelvis extended, and the fingers kept close together, the side of the fore-finger touch the os pubis, and that of the little one, the projecting angle of the sacrum ; the distance will be about three inches. II. —If on moving the little finger out of the way, and placing the other three conjunctively, in the same diagonal direction as before directed, and their sides come in contact with the pubis and promontory of the sacrum ; we may conclude that the space betwixt these two opposing points, is little more than 2 inches, an opening through which no mature foetus can possibly be extracted alive, nor even if we suppose the space to be 2^ inches. III. —When only two fingers can be placed edgewise in the foie-mentioned manner, and be- twixt the two angles of the short aperture of the pelvis, the extent will not exceed 1^ inches. * A tolerable sized hand methodically directed up the vagina, will readily pass through the apertures of a pelvis, the small diameter of which docs not exceed 2£ inches from the pubis to the sacrum, even if the lateral dimensions are contracted.293 From this last limited extent the accouclieur may feel assured that when the period of gestation is completed, except a greater distance can be obtained, in either of the lateral diameters of the superior aperture, no other mode of deli- very is so eligible for the safety of the mother, as either the Crotchet or CsBsarean section. If the accoucheur be not primarily acquainted Avith the measurement of his hand, and fingers when placed in conjunction with each other, he may after having explored the different apertures of the pelvis, apply his hand to a graduated scale, and he will thereby be enabled to supply the de- ficiency. In some peculiar conformations of the pelvis, it happens that where the projection of the sacrum is by disease or accident, contorted in- wardly and laterally, that the opposite aperture offers a larger space for the reception of the foetal head than what is the case in a natural state; and when using the fingers as a pelvimeter it is indis- pensably necessary to attend to this circumstance, as a knowledge of snch irregular conformation may govern our future plan of conduct. If igno- rant of this, by such an avenue left for the entrance of the foetal head, delivery will in some instances be terminated with safety to the child without manual assistance; and in others if the Lever or Forceps be necessary, when used with caution, the lives of both may be preserved.294 This tactile method of [)roceet]ing, will generally furnish the accoucheur with an adequate know- ledge of the dimensions of the pelvis, in almost every degree of morbid and mal-formed structure. In such adverse and distorted cabes, it requires more than ordinary circumspection to select the most eligible resources for ensuring a happy event both to mother and child ; and it is incumbent on the accoucheur in every preceding instance, where he has been under the necessity of terminating delivery with the Crotchet, to procure the precise dimensions of the pelvis in all its diameters before he leaves the woman, in order that he may be armed with every requisite auxiliary in future labour, and this information may be most satis- factorily acquired by means of the touch as has been before mentioned. As the pelvic cavity is completely lined with Heshy texture, the apertures will, it is presumed, be varied a few lines less or more in proportion to the extent of difficulty, and the duration of labour ; and these essential circumstances the accoucheur is particularly requested to bear in mind as he proceeds in this enquii-y, in order that our ad- justments may agree as to the relative proportions between the capacity of the foetal head, and the cavity of the mother s pelvis duruig labour. To accjuire with mathematical precision by means of the touch, the diversities and disproportions of mal-295 confoniiatiou incidental to the difierent diameters of the pelvis during parturition, to resolve in every exigence, how long we ought to rely on the powers of nature, and when these are deficient, to select the best means which art can suggest, in order to accomplish the delivery with becoming expedition, are essential requisites in every accou- cheur competent to exercise the obstetric art. Though in this country Pelvimeters are rarely used for gauging the pelvis, yet on an occasion of such vast importance, every means should be em- ployed to attain this point with as much accuracy as possible ; for on our decision rests both the fate of the mother and unborn foetus entrusted to our protection. To those whose opportunities of practice have not furnished them with a sufficient faculty of discrimination by the touch pervaginam, to be enabled to ascertain to a tolerable degree of exactness, the various characters and degrees of distortion to which the female pelvis becomes liable by disease, I have thought proper in this place to describe the mode of using the CaUipers,* an instrument used by Baudelocque, as being more easily applied to the patient than any other with which 1 am acquainted. * Mr. Coutouly, of Paris, invented a Pelvimeter so constructed as to be applied in the cavity of the pelvis_. a plate of wiiich may be seen in Aitkin's Midwifery.296 " To determine how much the superior strait is defective in the diameters, and measure it by means of the compasses, we take the thickness of the woman from the middle of the mons veneris to the centre of the depression of the base of tlie sacrum posteriorly, by applying one of the points of the instrument before, againsl the symphysis of the pubis; and the other behind, a little under the spine of the last lumbar vertebra: and deduct three inches from that thickness in women that are thin, for the base of the sacrum, and the anterior extremity of the ossa pubis ; the thickness of these latter being at most but six lines, and that of the base of the sacrum two inches and a half; and so constantly so, that I have not found a differ- ence of a line in about five and thirty pelves, dis- torted and contracted in all manner of ways, and in all possible degrees. This subtraction of three inches from the external thickness of the pelvis, in the said directions, is also sufficient when the lustiness is moderate; and ^ye may add one or two lines more, when it is excessive, because the fat which forms the mons veneris, easily shrinks under the lenticular extremity of the compasses. The result of this procedure is so exact, that the pelvis measured with the common compasses after opening the body, was not above a line over or under my estimation in any one of my experi- ments. A greater precision, if we could obtain297 it, would be useless, since the clioice of the most proper methods for terminating the delivery in a given case, cannot depend on a line more or less in the diameter of the pelvis. According- to these data, the knowledge of this tliameter is easily obtained. " It is fom- inches when the external thickness of the pelvis measnres seven; it is but three when the latter only measnres six ; and but two when it does not exceed five, &c. I suppose the woman to be thin, as most of them are who have been ricketty." Though by the use of the Callipers a tolerable accurate gauge may generally be attained of the distance between the pubis and promontory oi" the sacrum at the superior strait; yet it must be acknowledged that this instrument affords veiy little advantage to the accoucheur, when applied to any other of the pelvic diameters : and in cases of exostosis the admeasurement will be equally uncertain when attempted at any given point of the concavity. Hence may be seen how much more limited this mechanical invention is in its application and use, than the fingers of the ac- coucheur when properly adjusted. In considering the descent of the fioetal head through the extended apertures of the pelvis, it- will appear manifestly necessary that the dimen- sions of the one should bear some mathematical 2 p298 proportion to the otiier. To obviate certain diffi- culties, nature has wisely ordained a peculiarity of structure to the foetal cranium, the mechanism of which is so admirably formed, that its head is less compact than that of the adult, the cranium being connected by synneurosis or ligamentous sutures, forming fontanels which are more yield- ing and numerous, consequently are better adapted for the head passing through the windings of the pelvis, than if they had been firmly joined together. The growth of the foetus varies very much dur- ing the different stages of utero-gestation. The embryo increases more rapidly in size in the first weeks of conception, than after it acquires the fcEtal state, though this increase is supposed to have various stages of irregularity till gestation be completed. Few accoucheurs have had opportunities of ascer- taining with precision the diversified growth of the foetus in the earlier periods of its developement. According to Soemmering, we find that the increase of the foetus does not observe any uniform ratio. During the first weeks after conception its increase is most rapid, during the second month a little arrested in its growth ; increased during the third, and in some degree retarded at the commencement of the fourth ; from the latter end of the fourth to the sixth increased, from which period till gestation is perfected, the growth is not299 so rapid. Burns states, that " in the fourth month the foetus is about five inches long; in the fifth month, six or seven inches; in the sixth month, eight or nine inches ; in the seventh, eleven or twelve; in the eighth about fifteen inches." See page 116, first edition. M. Gardien, an eminent accoucheur of Paris, in his Traite de Accoiichmens, Tom. 1, Page 481, remarks, that" at two months, the foetus measures rather more than two inches long; at three months, three inches and a half; at four months and two weeks, four inches and six or eight lines; at five mouths, seven inches and a half; at six months, nine inches six lines ; at seven montlis, eleven inches." This diversity of opinion may arise in part from an inaccuracy in the measurement of the foetus, as there is usually much resistance opposed by the muscular actions of the living child, in at- tempting to distend the legs and body for the purpose of measurement, for unless this circum- stance be attended to, whether the foetus be alive or dead, the result will be different. I have nevertheless taken some pains to acquire a know- ledge of the mean weight, and length of new born foetuses at different periods of gestation, and the average has at full time rather exceeded twenty inches in length, and near seven pounds and a quarter in Aveight: at other premature pe-300 riods my observations coincide chiefly witii those of Burns. See on this subject Mauricean, Schu- rigius, Kerkringius, Ruysch, Riolanus, Burton, Hmiter, Johnson and many others. Abstinence and depletion of the system have been proposed as a means of retarding the growth of the foetus in utero, with a view of rendering labour less difficult where the pelvis is faulty, but unless this project be scrupulously enjoined by the mother during the whole time of pregnancy, there is reason to believe that its effects would be wholly abortive, and might in certain conditions of the constitution do harm if carried to this extent; nor is it in the power of the accoucheur to discriminate in which cases such forbearance might be advan- tageously pursued, even if it was found efficacious: for in the lowest orders of society where women subsist invariably on a spare diet, we find their offspring in no respect reduced below the ordinary size of those females who live in a state of uninterrupted affluence; therefore this scheme appears too uncertain in its effects to be relied on as an expedient in cases where the diameters of the female pelvis are much abridged. The walls of the pelvis are firmly connected together, and the change which the foetal head is constantly undergoing as gestation advances, always presents an obstacle to the safety of pre- mature delivery, owing to the uncertain magnitude301 of the crauiuni, and the degree of resistance op- posed by the pelvis, and the irregular action and power of the uterus during its passage through that cavity. Without enumerating the various positions which the foetal head assumes on the approach of labour, it may be necessary to state, that the general and most natural presentation, is the vertex nearly in the axis of the pelvis, with the ears rather in a diagonal direction between the pubis and sacrum, and the occiput inclined towards one ilium, and the face towards the other. The cause of this part of the head descending first into the brim of the pelvis, may be owing in some measure to the foramen magnum being situ- ated nearer the occiput than the face, conse- quently is more mechanically inclined to be first pushed into the superior aperture of the basin, by the action of the uterus on the commencement of labour ; sometimes, however, the anterior fon- tanella may, on the approach of parturition, be perceived by the touch to present in the axis of the superior strait; but this trifling deviation is generally rectified by the repeated efforts of the uterus, which force the vertex into the centre of the cavity, whilst the chin becomes reclined upon the breast, and the face turned into the hollow of the sacrum, and thus the natural process of par- turition is accelerated. If this fortunate curve302 in the course of the head throuf^li the pelvis did not take place, and the fontaneUa were pressed out of its natural direction, the labour would prove tedious, and probably might terminate in a face presentation. The Forceps and Levei- are instruments well calculated for extracting the foetus alive, within certain degrees of difficulty and deformity, and claim a preference over other mechanical inven- tions when used with judgment and caution. If the superior strait of the pelvis from the symphysis pubis to the os sacrum, or in any part from the anterior to the posterior point, exhibit a space for the reception of the head equal to three inches in diameter, we may not altogether abandon the hope of extracting a living mature child through such contracted limits with either of these instru- ments: and if the child's head be small, and the bones not too firmly ossified or connected by synneurosis membrane, to move a little over the edges of each other, while at the same time the volume of the head becomes lessened by the com- bined power of the uterus and abdominal mus- cles; in these cases, by the united aid of these natural agents, delivery may be sometimes effected, if the superior diameter of the pelvis does not in any part exceed 2| inches * On the contrary, * In a case of this description I had once the curiosity to measure the head of the child soon after birth ; its longest dia-30;3 when the pelvis is ascertained to measure no more from pubis to sacrum, or in any other direction of the aperture at the brim than 2^ inches,* I am persuaded from long experience, that no mature foetus can possibly be extracted by any known mechanical power, through a space of these di- mensions without inevitable destruction to the child, and consequent risk to the mother. It will be evident from these facts, that it is in this inter- mediate degree of distortion (comprising not more than a quarter of an inch) betwixt the possibility of effecting delivery without injury to the mother or foetus with the Forceps or Lever, and that ex- tent of deformity which requires the application of the Crotchet, that premature delivery seems most likely to be advantageously produced. In such cases this method is preferable to the sacri- fice of a mature foetus by Embryulcia, whilst un- avoidably endangering the life of the parent. Here a question naturally presents itself to every accoucheur who deliberates on the subject; meter was ll inches, and the distance from the protuberance of one parietal bone to the other was reduced by pressure to nearly Ih, inches. Notwithstanding the degree of compression which the brain must have sustained by long continued action of the uterus, and though delivery was effected with the Lever, both mother and child recovered. Cases of this kind are vei-y rare, and form no general rule of practice. * Vide Synoptical Table at the end.i 301 what degree of compressibility is the mature fatal cranium capable of fcustainiug without destruction, during its passage through a pelvis of given di- mensions, and what is the proportion of difliculty in this case compared witii the delivery of a pre- mature foetus of seven months? This question is not easily solved, owing to our inability to deter- mine the bulk of every foetal head, and the di- mensions of the cavityof every individual pelvis, as well as the power of uterine action during laWur. We may have a general idea of the fiffure and extent of the child's head, both before and after birth ; but as no two heads nor pelvises are found in either state uniformly alike, the dif- ficulty of forming a previous judgment becomes unavoidably increased. The solidity of the foetal head, and the reaction of the bones of the pelvis upon that body, are so variable in different children and in different stages of labour, that no exact criterion can be formed before birth. However, I will venture to hazard an opinion that the component parts of the mature foetal head when exposed to the risks attendant on 9iatural parturition, will bear a reduction in size by pressure during its evolution through the pelvis, from I to 1^ an inch without proving fatal; but when the volume of the head becomes diminished beyond this, either by the use of the Forceps or J^ever, or other mechanical power, their appUca-2 Q tiou becomes proportionately daiig;erous both to the child and mother. If the bulk of the head be reduced hi its di- mensions further than the extent above mentioned, by one ofthepam^aZ bones passing over the other, and tlie pericranium and dura mater become de- tached, vi'hile pressure on the brain is continued for an undue time, a degree of plethora and in- ternal extravasation will take place on that deli- cate organ, and death ensue either during labour or soon after it. Yet, under these precarious cir- cumstances, the natural spheroidal figure of the fcEtal head may sometimes by pressure be changed into another more favourable form, and pass with impunity through a pelvis, the conjugate diameter of which at the brim, does not exceed 2f inches, if the mother be strong and the uterine action powerful. Hence will appear the impropriety of using the Crotchet without great circumspection, on the presumption that the child cannot be other- wise born alive. In some peculiar forms of distortion, where the projectiiiig-angle of the sacrum is , contorted in a lateral direction, there is a greater space left on the contrary side. In this diverse structure of the pelvis, and where the most favourable part of the head of the fcetus rests at the widest part of the aperture, I am induced to believe that the Lever has a decided preference over the Forceps; for 1306 have succeeded with safety both to mother and chihl with that instrument in several instances, where the Forceps had been previously tried with- out effect: and in others, where the precedhig births had been terminated with the Crotchet, in which cases no part of the superior aperture of the pelvis presented a space equal to three inches. I consider the living fatus a merely passive body during its passage through the pelvis; though after death, when putrefaction has taken place, it is well to bear in mind that the bones of the cranium and their connecting membranes will give way more readily, and pass through a less space than when alive. However, I am well aware that examples may be adduced where the head has undergone a greater reduction by compression than what has been above stated, without proving fatal; never- theless I would have it understood, that though there may be exceptions from this rule, yet the danger incurred will be proportionate to the yield- ing condition of the sutures, and length of time which the foetal head occupies in the passage: hence it is indispensably requisite to view the ad- measurement and dimensions of the pelvis and cranium of the foetus in conjunction with each other, in every state and under every modification of artificial assistance. Some difference may nevertheless result from307 the red notion of the size of the head of a foetus of seven or eight months, and one of nine, as it is probable that the volume of the head of the latter will not admit of the same degree of flexi- bility with the former; yet perhaps less danger will take place betwixt the two foetuses during their course through the pelvis, than what at first would appear probable, owing to the greater im- pelling power of the uterus during labour upon the body of a mature foetus of nine months, than upon an immature one of seven; and our judg- ment on this head must be governed in every in- dividual instance, by the comparative casualty to which the child is inevitably involved in the birth. On consultinsr the works of different writers on midwifery, there is a considerable difference in their respective statements of the mean dimensions of the heads of children at the time of birth; and on comparing the measurements 1 have taken, I find that they accord the nearest with the state- ment given by Burns. "The longest diameter (says this author) of the head is from the vertex to the chin, and this is near five inches. From the root of the nose to the vertex, and from the chin to the central portion of the sagital suture, measures four niches. From the one parietal pro- tuberance to the other, in a transWrse line, mea-sures from three inches and a quarter, to three inches and a half. From the nape of the neck to the crown of the head, is three inches and a half. From the one temple to the other, is two inches and a half. From the occiput to the chin, along the base of the cranium, is four inches and a half. From one mastoid process to the other, along the base, is about two inches; from chin to cheek is three inches." It is well known that the natural figure of the foetal head, whether male or female, at birth is elliptical, and the average dimensions of the former usually exceeds the latter by nearly a thirtieth part. This difference of sex cannot be known before the child is born, and the dispro- portion being trifling, could not influence the pro- ceedings of the accoucheur, were he previously acquainted with the fact. The next question which presents itself, is in what degree of distortion of the pelvis it becomes expedient to have recourse to this operation ? This point will not be easily ascertained with mathematical precision, unless the accoucheur be allowed to make an examination j^er vaginam; and as this delicate step is not altogether attain- able during the earlier months of gestation, and before the propriety of premature induction has been determined on, it becomes requisite in this309 place, to state the circinnscribed dimensions of the apertures of the pelvis, wherein it is most likely to meet with success. Under these incidental constructions of female deformity, I presume that a pelvis, the small di- ameter of which measures from pubis to sacrum, about 2^ or 2| inches, appears to favour the utility of this mode of delivery more than any other given dimensions. For on the one hand it is sufficiently evident, that where the pelvis measures 2| inches, the Forceps or Lever may be advantageously used; but a mature foetus cannot be born alive, when the extent of space is under 2^ inches, in which case the Crotchet becomes necessary ; and should the superior aperture measure only 1^ inch in the widest part of its conjugate diameter, the only resource for the safety of the mother and fcetus, is the CcBsarean Operation; and, in this high degree of difference, premature delivery can avail nothing towards preserving the life of the fcetus. See Synoptical Table. If it be proved that this operation cannot be performed with safety to the child, except where there is a space existing in some part of the su- perior aperture, adequate to what has already been stated, then it will follow that this mode of delivery must be very much limited, insomuch that a considerable degree of hazard to the foetus will always attend it, owing on the one hand to a »310 want of accuracy in discriminating- between tlir relative size of the foetal liead, and the dimensions of the apertures of the pelvis, through which it must necessarily pass; and on the otlier to the various contingent events unavoidably linked with malformed pelvis and uterine passivity. I have thus pointed out with as much precision as I am able, the minimum or intermediate diameter of i* of an inch as the most warrantable space allotted for the success of this species of operation, when performed about the end of the seventh month of gestation ; before or after which period it appears from these data, an unjustifiable pro- cedure, and not likely to be attended with success to the foetus. When this operation is determined on, and the dimensions of the pelvis are such as promise success, we ought to select the time for its com- j)letion with the utmost care, in order that the child may derive every possible advantage for acquiring an uninterrupted birth, for the nearer the recurrence of the operation to the period de- creed by nature, and the greater will be the pro- spect of a successful issue. It is evident that premature delivery, like many other operations, requires a suitable time to be selected for per- forming it. (Viz.) When the short diameter measures from 2^ to 2| inches. See Synoptical Table.311 It has been proposed to excite premalure labour at an earlier period of gestation, than at the end of the seventh month ; and no donbt, a few ex- ceptions may be opposed to the general advice above stated ; but if we consider the puny con- dition of such ephemeral beings, and the misery to which their premature birth subjects them, we shall have little reason to prefer such a state to a mere nonentity, while the community derives no benefit from such precipitate proceedings. It is much to be lamented, that authors who have had recourse to this operation, had not been more explicit in their statements respecting the exact period of gestation, the premature fate of children, and how long they survived that event, for it is not justifiable on moral grounds, to per- form an operation merely to bring a being into existence which must inevitably perish soon after birth. Besides this immature mode of delivery, re- peated during subsequent pregnancies, would be the means of subjecting the mothermore frequently to a state of gestation, than if she were allowed to complete the period of nine months; and by such illicit practice, wantonly destroy a number of children to preserve one woman, which on a more deliberate appeal to circumstances, and the history of the CcBsarean Section, the child might also have been sometimes saved, had the parent312 been allowed to complete her term of gestation, by having; recourse to hysterotomy, a project which has perhaps produced a greater assemblage of im- petuous and determined opponents on one side the question, and exhibited more rational and ' enlightened advocates on the other, than any surgical subject whatever; nevertheless, the con- tinental writers on midwifery appear more discreet and humane with regard to the use of the Crotchet than the British practitioners, and seldom re- commend its application during the life of the child in utero. If we were fully acquainted with every circum- stance connected with the history of all the vic- tims which have fallen a sacrifice to the Ccb- sarean Section and Embryulcia, since their first introduction into practice, whether the children were dismembered in -the womb, and extracted with Crotchets variously constructed, such as the Tire Tetes of Mauriceau, the Extractor of Levret, or other instruments used for that dire purpose, a measure of success might be ascertained as a rule of practice, to guide the future steps of the ac- coucheur. But it is to be regretted that the records of obstetric experience at present are insufficient to furnish such a criterion, nor will the limits pre- scribed to this enquiry, permit a full discussion of so formidable a question. But admitting the prevalence of custom in our own country, in the2 R :313 use .of the Perforator, though but an apology for Emhynlcia, the advocates for the CcEsarean Sec- tion on the continent, unquestionably triumph over British accoucheurs, both on the score of huma- nity and legislative authority; for we have to lament the numei'ous instances of living children mutilated and extracted through the pelvis, by means of the Crotchet, who have survived their births only for a short space of time in apparent misery, and who, by a contrary mode of prac- tice, might in all probability have been preserved. See Hamiltons Letters to Oshorn, Page 153. Mauricemi, obs. 584. Peu La Pratique, Page 346. La Motte, case cxc. Crantz de Instru- ment, 6fc. sect. 38, &c. &c. The inevitable death of the foetus, and the well known danger to which the mother is exposed by the application of the Crotchet in the third degree of distortion of the pelvis,* when contrasted with the success of the Ccesarean Section, where the life of the child is almost always preserved, are circumstances sulBciently important to lead the accoucheur to pause on the propriety of selecting either of these modes of delivery. Yet, on a long and dispassionate view^ of the subject, I am induced to declare, without reserve, that were I at full liberty to exercise my own * See SynopliciilTable.314 jiidgineiit and discretion on this momentous ques- tion, 1 should decide in favour of Hysterotomy, rather than Embryotomy, within the above speci- fied limits of distortion, and where no morbid • disease affected the system. It is not to be wondered at, that the horrid use of the Perforator in these circumstances of dif- ficulty, should have been so reluctantly acceded to by Continental practitioners, when it is known that formerly both the Physicians and Clergy qf France, were legally authorized to induce the mother to submit to the Ccesarean Section, for the sake of having baptism administered to the child. This custom continued until the Doctors of the Sorbonne,* in the year 1755, decreed that the sa- cramental rite would be equally efficacious if performed before birth! To effect this, a syringe was filled with warm water, the pipe was con- veyed up the vagina till it came in contact either with the head of the foetus, or its investing mem- branes, and the piston being pushed forwards, the water was forced against the child, during which process the usual formula of the service was duly pronounced by the operator ! The uterine foetus was then considered truly baptized ! This expe- dient the Continental accoucheurs pursue at the present time,t when an impediment occurs which * See Astruc's Ait of Midwifery, Pp. 216—219. t See Trait6 sur divers AccoAchmeiis, par M. Herbiiiiaux.315 would prevent the child from being born alive. These circumstances will account for the Ccesa- rean Section being less frequently performed since the above-njentioned period ; and also for Emhry- w/cm being now adopted by Continental accou- cheurs in cases of pelvic deformity. See M, Guenin Historic de deux Oper Cajsarieimes. Car- giamila Embryologia sacra, passim. Herbiniaux Traite sur divers Accouchmens, &c. Baude- locqne's Memoirs on the Caesarean Operation. Presuming that no accoucheur can be unac- quainted with the manner by which premature labour is effected, 1 shall omit all description of the operation, in order to guard against any un- just or immoral abuse which might arise from its publication. When the membranes of the ovum which enve- lope the foetus are ruptured, or a slight denuda- tion of the connecting chain of vessels between the clecidua and uterus be in any way produced, labour will eventually follow, though the time which elapses before the commencement of uterine action is so variable, that I have known in some instances several days pass, before that organ has completed its evolutions. When tlie liquor amnii is primarily withdrawn from the ovum, and the foetus left in close contact with the womb during its repeated contractions, I am disposed to consider the life of the child316 (luring its exit tin'<)iii;li tlie pelvis involved in some danger; and that danger is [)roj)ortionable to tlie degree of distortion, duration and force of labour ])ains, and date of gestation. And though pre- mature induction be attempted by disparting the decidaa from the os uteri, or its cervix without rupturing the membranes, haemorrhage may ensue, and the woman become reduced before the evolu- tion of labour be completed. Nevertheless, in such cases where the uterine efforts are defective, the labour protracted Ijeyond due time, and the vital continuity between the placenta and uterus destroyed, it may be advisable to employ the Lever to facilitate the birth, provided the mouth of that organ be amply extended, and the pre- sentation natural. The ancient opinion why more children survive the birth at the period of the seventh, than at the eighth month of pregnancy, may be traced as far back as the time of Hippocrates; yet no rational explanation has to my knowledge been attempted in reference to this prevailing doctrine. Whether it may be traced to the absurd notion ascribed to Pythagoras* of Septenary Mutations is not very * The number seven has long been acknowledged a perfect and ominous number. Hence Cicero calls it Nodus Onmitm, or the knot of all things; and the Pythagoreans lerm it the Vehicle of Mans Life. This Philosopher was so much en- raptured with this numerical doctrine, that he applied it to all817 easy to determine. Hippocrates embraced the idea that at the seventh month of gestation, the fetus invariably makes an effort to extricate itself from the uterus, and if not successful it makes a second attempt at the expiration of the eighth month, and if effective at this period, the foetus is consequently rendered weaker than if it had been born by the first efforts ! It is sufficiently notorious that the ancients im- bibed many superstitious prejudices with regard to odd numbers, imagining that the number seven had a peculiar reference to the human body. This irrational sentiment was promulgated by the Chaldeans, under the appellation of Climacterics, and these tertian and septenary days have been regarded to an injurious and ridiculous ex- tent by many physicians of the present age, particularly in certain cases of fevers. Such a numerical doctrine cannot be too contemptuously censured ; for the living organized system appears to me endowed with an almost endless variety of properties, and its functions so numerous and sciences, physical as well as divine. Some anthors are of opinion lliat Pythagoras had no faith in numbers separalely con- sidered, but merely employed them as types or signs to explain the principles of his philosophy; but afterwards his disciples in- troduced into his doctrine the mystery of numbers portending some extraordinary and revolutionary change in the human body, at certain petiods of time which he never believed.318 fluctuating by the interposition of casual agents luider such contrary circumstances, tliat it is altogether improbable that it should be influenced by the power of such periodical seasons. It is probable from the physiology and history of utero gestation, that the foetus makes constant and progressive advances towards perfection and vigour, from the time of conception to the full period of pregnancy. It may however, be proper to advert to the probable causes of a foetus born at the eighth month of gestatior), being more feeble and less likely to survive its birth than one of seven months, as Hippocrates and many other Physicians main- tain. It is granted that there are more seven months children reared than those of eight, and daily observations sufficiently prove that abortions take place more frequently about the seventh month than at any other period of gestation. To account for this fact, it may be remarked, that there is comparitively a greater yielding of the cervix uteri at this time, than at the eighth month. The functions of the uterus manifest less resis- tance to the causes which oppose parturition, and its neck unfolds its contractions with greater fa- cility. The foetal head is also somewhat less, and parturition is rendered easier. During no stage of gestation docs the uterus perform its per-;3i9 tiirieiit office with more irregularity than at tlii« latter period; consequently the bulk and firmness of the foetal cranium opposed to uterine resistance, and connected with a variety of casual and opera- tive causes in severe and protracted labour, will unavoidably subject the foetal head to a state of undue compression, and its neck sometimes to strano-ulations. These are accidents to which it would be less exposed at an earlier period ot pregnancy under similar circumstances during its evolution from the womb. On these grounds we may account for the greater probability of rearing a premature foetus of seven, than one at eight months. There is therefore no reason for be- lieving any thing ominous in numbers; nor can I imagine any other method of elucidation,- than what is thus supported by observation and ex- perience. It may perhaps be regarded by some practi- tioners a matter of more curiosity than utility, to enquire into the history and success attendant on premature induction, and the prospect of rearing children born before the completion of the term of utero-gestation ; but the importance of the at- tempt will be readily acknowledged by every accoucheur who contemplates the subject in a moral point of view; and it is hoped that the instances on record of premature births hereafter adduced, in support of the operation, will tend to320 excite additional ardour in the practitioner, to rescue these puny beings from an untimely grave. In the Second Book of Esdras, chap, 6. ver. 21, there is a pointed allusion to the present subject, "The women with child shall bring forth untimely children, of three or four months old ; and they shall live and be raised up." Avicenna, an Arabian Physician, declares he has seen lively children born and reared in the sixth month. Hieron 3Iantuus, says he knew a Butler of Ki7fO' Henry's of France, that was born in the fifth month, who when he wrote was alive and of a good age. See Lib 4, chap. 41. Hieronymus Cardanus asserts, that he knew an instance of one Clara of eighteen years of age, who was born on the one hundred and forty eighth day from the time of conception. See Lib I. Afpho7ius Ca- ranza cites several authors who allow that children may be born alive and survive as early as the sixth month, such authors for instance are Johan JJro- deus. Jacobus Segarro\ Henricus Salmulhus, IJo- ratius Augenius, and Claudius Geardimis. ¥ide chap. 9. Alphonsus de Sancta Cruce gives his testimony to successful births under six months. We have an instance recorded of a foetus living at the early period of five months. See Brouzet Essai sur 1" Education Medica, Page 37 & Seq.3'2l Monsieur Roclifort in his Memoirs says, he was bom as early as some of those before mentioned. The Maresclud Due de Richelieu was born in the sixtli month of pregnancy. It is likewise said on good authority, that Licetus a celebrated Phy- sician and Philosopher of Italy, came into the world in the sixth month of his mother's preg- nancy, and lived to be 77 years of age, his Father being also a Physician, cherished him with great care and manageci to rear him by means of a furnace artificially heated after the Egyptian method of hatching eggs. Peu, Maubraij, La MoUe, and Faw Swieten relate several examples of successful premature births.* One of the most authentic and extraor- dinary instances of prematurity on record, is that of Lewis the second, King of Hungary, who it is said, was born without skin. In his second year he was crowned, in his tenth year he succeed- ed to the throne; in his fourteenth year he had a complete beard; in his fifteenth he married ; in — ^ * A remarkable instance of liie varieties of gestation^ is re- lated by Pliny, lib. 7. chap. -5, of Vestilia, a Roman Lady, who by three successive husbands had four children. The name of the first was Sempronius, whom she bore in the 7th month of her pregnancy ; Suillius Rufus at the 11th j Corbulo at the 7th ; and Cacsonia at the 8th. AH of them lived and became noble Citizens of Rome. Ca;sonia it is well known was wife to the Emperor Caligula. See also A. Spigel de Formato Foelu. chap. 20, folio edition 1(>45. 2 s322 Ills eighteenth he had grey heirs, and in his twen- tieth he died! On referring to the Edinburgh Medical and SurgicalJournal, VoK 11th, for the year 1815, the reader will find cin interesting case related by Dr. Rodman, of a child born be- tween the fourth and fifth month and brought up. I know a Gentleman now living, 60 years of age, who never had either teeth, or nails on his toes or fingers, and from his appearance and what I have been able to learn respecting his birth, there is reason to believe that he was born in the sixth month. From the works of obstetrical authors, and ray own observations, I am convinced, that there are as many instances of successful births at the se- venth as at the eighth month; owing probably to the causes before stated. Hence it is indispen- sably necessary for the accoucheur to bestow as much attention to procure living children in the former as the latter period; and to adopt the mode of resuscitation in the early as in the more advanced births. On no occasions should he remit his exertions without the most decided con- viclion that his efforts will be unavailing; and however improbable and remote success may ap- pear in the case of a foetus under seven months, his perseverance may at length be rewarded. Premature children are often born without visible signs of life owing to a variety of causes during,323 or immediately after parturition: several such cases have occurred in my own practice, which prove that reanimation may be effected after the lapse of half an hour or more from the time of birth ; and it is probable that in cases of Asphyxia where the vital action of the system is suspended, and the lungs not having been inflated with air, that animation may be restored sooner than if res- piration had once taken place, and from some cause or other ceased. It will scarcely be disputed after the instances recited, that a seventh month child may frequently by proper attention be reared, and attain nearly the usual strength and size, as if it had remained in utero nine months. Hence it would be highly improper to abandon premature children, for a child born wanting nails on the fingers and toes, or without hair on the head, is not to be regarded as in a state in which resuscitation is impracticable. The infant should be kept in a room constantly warmed by means.of a stove, and laying it in a bed of wool, or wrapping it in fleecy hosiery ; it should be fed with good milk sweetened with brown sugar; and thus the lives of many children may be preserved which would otherwise have perished for w^ant of timely and vigorous measures. The warm bath, galvanism, and friction are also among the re- medies which promise a happy result. On referring to the works of continental authors324 it will be observed, tiiat they do not generally sanction the moral propriety of this practice, and allege in support of their opinion, that the induc- tion of premature labour, whatever may be the fate of the child, frequently subjects the mother to subsequent cancerous affections of the uterus; and in these marked cases of distortion of the pelvis, they give a decided preference either to Embryulcia or the CtBsarean Section. How far we are justified in giving assent to these opinions, an examination of the records of the operation in this country, compared with those on the continent Avill best decide; and it may be requisite to re- mark, that the most accredited authors on the continent acknowledge they have seldom had recourse to this operation, and we are not furnished with a single instance of such disastrous uterine affections resulting from the operation in this country. Hence we ought not to be governed by their opinion in this question, as it cannot be put in competition with that of this coimti y, seeing that our experience has been more extensive than that of other nations. It may subject me to the charge of credulity, to have brought forward instances from ancient authors of births, the prematurity of which far surpasses those of modern times ; yet, as writers of every age and country claim an equal share of credence, I can scarcely be thought reprehensible325 on this a'^count, though some of those ah-eady adduced may be viewed as questionable. It augurs more judgment than what I pretend to post^ess, to determine how far all of them are entitled to belief. Notwithstanding the authorities cited, however credible or accurate they may be, they ought rather to be viewed as rare instances of success, than as guides by which our practice should be regulated. It is by no means evident that premature labour should be indiscriminately produced during the sixth month of gestation; for every attempt made at this early period, with the intent of superseding Embryulcia, or any other manual expedient for the mere purpose of preserving the life of the foetus, will, in most instances, avail nothing more than jugulare ynortiios ! Such are the uncertain results attendant on premature induction, that every delivery excited by art or otherwise, taking place casually or earlier than the termination of the seventh month of pregnancy, unless the pelvis can be ascertained either by the touch, Callipers, or the event of one or more prior births to mea- sure from pubis to sacrum, or other of its aper- tures more than from ^ to 2f inches, will ge- nerally prove destructive to the foetus, either during the time of labour, or soon after the com- pletion of that process. In some peculiar morbid326 aliectioMS of constitution the fcutus dies in utero, about the eighth month of gestation. In such circumstances of bodily im[)erfection this opera- tion has been sometimes attended with the happiest results ; but as the death of the fuftus while in the uterus is almost always concealed from us, this expedient must ever be attended with much un- certainty. The inadequate augmentation of space gained by the Si^ultian Operation, and the uncertainty of reunion of the sacro iliac symphysis in extreme deformity of the pelvis, and the manifest danger attending that operation, are circumstances suf- ficient to preclude its adoption as a substitute for any of the above-mentioned modes of delivery. It affords little hope of preserving the life of the child in extreme diegrees of distortion of the pel- vis, and subjects the mother to imminent danger. The chief objections to this operation may be stated under the following heads :— I. —The cartilage which connects the symphisis pubis, may be so much ossified as to prevent a separation by means of the scalpel; so that a re- union may not take place after the operation. II. —The space obtained by a division of the symphysis pubis in a pelvis greatly distorted, would be inadequate to permit the head of the child passing with safety. III. —There is always great risk of the neck of327 the bladtkr being wounded by the knife, or lacer- ated by the separation of the bones of the pubis. IV.—The internal ligaments which unite the ossa ilia and sacrum may be lacerated, and a re- union may not be effected. v.—Inflammation has sometimes succeeded this operation, and the patient suffered death ni consequence. VI. —In some instances where the section has been made, the ossification of the sacrum and ilia has been found so firmly united, that no separation could possibly be obtained by a division of the symphysis pubis for the extraction of the head of the child, and delivery has afterwards been effected by mutilating the foetus with the Crotchet; or as a dernier resource, the operator has finished the delivery* by the CcBsarean Section, thus cruelly and unnecessarily compounding the two operations. It has been doubted by some respectable writers, and with apparent reason, whether the Sigultian Operation has ever been successful both to mother and child, in'cases where the superior aperture of the pelvis, from pubis to sacrum measured less than 2^ inches. It might appear at first view, from these pre- ,, y * For an account of some shocking instances of this de- scription, the reader is referred to Vol. III. of Heath's Baude- locque.828 mises, that tho section of the pubis and iiidviction of premature labour are equally eligible, so far as respects the circumscribed limits of the pelvis; but when we dispassionately consider the uncer- tainty of augmenting its apertures, and the con- sequent risk incurred to the mother, the com- parison of success between the two modes of operating will rest on the side of premature prac- tice. Hence will be seen the inadequateness of the Sigultian project ever superseding any other known mode of delivery, and the reason of its being in a great measure abandoned by the [)ro- fession. Few operations ever met with a greater number of advocates in the same space of time, or were sooner relinquished by the profession ; and the unhappy result of the practice ought to discourage in future every inconsiderate innovation in the obstetric art. It is to be lamented, that an indis- criminate regard for such project should ever have influenced the conduct of accoucheurs in ils favour. It is a matter of the greatest practical conse- quence for the accoucheur in cases of distorted pelvis, to discriminate between those of Exostosis and Malacosteon; as in the latter disease the bones will yield considerably, either by the intro- duction of the hand, or the impulse of uterine action on the body of the child during labour, bywhich the head l)ecomes impelled against the angles of the superior aperture of the pelvis, and acts like a wedge in forcing the passage open, while in affections of Exostosis no such change is produced. Eight cases of this species of progressive de- formity have fallen under my notice; in one of which the projection of the last lumber vertebra, at its union with the angle of the sacrum was so much bent forwards into the cavity of the pelvis, that on the introduction of the fore-finger up the vagina, a protuberance was presented to the touch very much resembling the head of the foetus, pretty far advanced into its cavity.* On carrying the finger a little higher anteriorly past the pro- jection, 1 could with some difficulty ascertain the head of the child ; but on moving it around, the distortion appeared so great, that the whole circumference did not exceed that of a half crowu piece. This occurrence was on the 29th of April, 1792, at which time I delivered the woman with the Crotchet, and the bones of the pelvis receded considerably to the impulsive efforts, during the * This protuberance had been mistaken for the presenting part of the child's head by the attending practitioner, who had previously to my being called in, been in attendance' two days and nights, and had determined on perforating the head with tUc .scissars before my arrival at the patient's house. 2textraction of the head of the fa tus; yet, not- withstanding the flexibility of the bones of the pelvis, and the debilitated state of her constitu- tion, she recovered speedily and without inter- ruption. On the 22nd of February, 1794, being in the neighbourhood where this poor woman resided, and learning that she was still alive, I was induced to pay her a visit, and if possible obtain permis- sion to examine her per vaginam. This request was readily granted. I found her unable to walk without assistance, and as she sat, her breast and knees were almost in contact with each other. The superior aperture was nearly in the same state as when I delivered her with the Crotchet, but the outlet appeared more contracted, and the rami of the pubis over-reached each other, leaving a small opening under the symphysis barely suf- ficient to admit the finger to pass into the vagina by that passage, and another aperture below, but rather larger and parallel with the junction of the inferior tuberosities of the ossa ischia. From what I afterwards learned respecting this decrepit female, she survived this period about two years, at which time she was become still more distorted in the spine, and after her death it was with difficulty she could be put into the coffin. This woman bore nine children, and died in the 39th year of her age. I attended her in331 the preceding labour to that above-mentioned, ^vhich was lingering and tedious; the disease then appeared to have-produced considerable distortion of the pelvis, in consequence of which I terminated the delivery with the Lever, and preserved the life of the child. In another instance, the woman was in a dying state before 1 was consulted. On examination 1 found the pelvis very much distorted in its aper- tures, and suspecting the deformity to arise from a state of Malacosteon, I was induced from the circumstances of the preceding case to attempt .delivery ; and this more particularly as the poor woman expressed an earnest desire to be released from her present misery, rather than die unde- livered. On enquiry, I was informed that she had only just completed the seventh mouth of gestation. Reflecting on her premature condition, and ob- serving the deficiency of uterine action, 1 deter- mined on introducing the hand into the vagina uteri, which was adequately dilated; and dis- covering it to be a case of twins, I availed myself in this instance to deliver by the feet; but the whole contour of both apertures of the pelvis was so much contracted in their dimensions, that turning the foetus was with considerable difficulty accomplished. The children were both alive, and survived their births several days ; and the womanlived about twelve hours after being- delivered. Having obtained permission to inspect the body, I found on tlissection the dimensions and structure of the bones of the pelvis as follows:—The con- jugate, ov antero-posterior diameter, from the sym- physis pubis to the promontory of the sacrum, measured barely two inches and a half, and the antero-posterior dimensions on each side of the sacro-iliac symphysis between these two points, were in some places under, and in others a few lines more than two inches and a half, and the transverse diameter inches. The rami ischia approached so near each other, that the space left betwixt them would scarcely admit one finger in any part; and on the intro- duction of the hand into the uterus when proceed- ing to turn the foetuses, these bones receded from each other very considerably ; and the same yield- ing effect was observable in the superior strait, though in a much less degree. The spongy texture of the bones of this pelvis appeared to have very little cretaceous matter in their composition, and their fabric was so soft that they were easily pierced with the point of a knife.* * It is a circumstance meriting aUention, that Malacostton lias shewn itself to be hereditary in this family ; for besides the mother I have attended two of her daughters, who were afflicted \*ith distorted pelvis occasioned by the same disease; and it is333 Tlie distortion and structure of the bones of the pelvis of the other women above alhided to, bore such a sinjihirity to those just described, that it is uiuiecessary to detail the respective cir- cumstances of their parturient condition. Many advantages may result to the accoucheur, as well as the patient, from an accurate know- ledge of the diseases, and structure of the bones of the pelvis prior to deliveiy. It is, I am per- suaded, from a want of this indispensable infor- mation that the Caesarean Section has often proved fatal in this country; for there is reason to sup- pose that most of the women on whom that ope- ration has been performed, have been afflicted ■with Malacosteon, and consequently were in art irrecoverable state, independent of any injury in- flicted by the operation itself; and perhaps if the nature of the disease and extent of distortion had been better and sooner understood, delivery in it natural way might in some instances have been accomplished with safety to the child, and the life of the mother prolonged. further remarkable, thai.a brother of the. sisters, just mentioned, is now labouring under a state of Friahililas, of the bones of the lower extremities. About two years ago this man had the misfortune to fracture his thigh bone whilst attending his employment as a weaver. Some time after a union was effected the other thigh bone was fractured during his being engaged at the same occupation, since whicli accideul he has been obliged to go on arm-hole crutchesiher case sec I lie latter part of tliis Essay. 534 In the 4th degree of distortion of tlie pelvis, where Malacosleon has miuJe such dreadful ra- vages in the female constitution, and in -which the aid of medicine is inadequate to re-establish it, it wonld be needless with the view of merely pre- serving the life of the mother, to have recourse either to the Sigultian Operation or the Ccesarean Section^ as the woman would inevitably die of the disease, even if she were not in a state of gestation. ^ If we advert to the numerous cases of Ccesareaii Section performed with success on the continent, compared with those of this country, it will be obvious that the instances of fatality have been chiefly owing- to Malacosieon existing before the operation ; for in no instance where the Ctesarean Operation has been performed in this kingdom, has it proved successful* to the mother, except in the case of Jane Foster^ of Blackrod, on whom I performed it with success, and on which occasion it became necessary, on account of a deformity of the pelvis, incurred by an accident in the early state of pregnancy, and not from any constitu- tional disease. When Premature delivery is attempted with a view of superseding the Ccesarean Section, it can * This woman is now livinq, and for a particular account ofonly become justifiable when Ibe dimensions of the pelvis are such as preclude every other mode of delivery per-vias naturales. Upon this ground the propriety of this operation will be contined to the embryon state, or at least soon after it has arrived at the foetal period. In the last mentioned extreme degree of dis- tortion of the apertures of the pelvis, the solicitude of the aecoycheur is wholly directed to the pre- servation of the life of the mother, as every en- deavour witliin the limits of our art during the embryo period, when designed to procure fcetal existence in these adverse situations will prove Avholly abortive. It may be a question of importance to know how far the morahty of the practice may be justified when performed with the intent of pre- serving the life of the mother, and sacrificing that of the foetus at so premature a stage of gestation. The problem is not easily solved ; the well known aptitude inherent in a woman to conceive, the consequent frequency of this occurrence in these situations, and the number of foetuses eventually distroyed with the intent of sparing the life of the parent, are incidents of the utmost importance to the community, and claim a proportionate share jof humanity and consideration from every accou- cheur concerned on these unfortunate occasions. As the Ccesarean Operation^ and premature in-duclion in this calamitous sitnation may Ijo made a matter of choice, may it not be allowable on dis- passionate reflection, for the mother to exercise her own jnflgnieat on the occasion, after being made acfjuainted with the probable result of each operation ? It is incumbent for the accoucheur ahvays to ascertain, if possible, the true cause of deformity in the pelvis, as there is more reason to ex'iiect a favourable result to the woman when this impedi- ment to delivery is occasioned by an accident, or injury inflicted on the bones of the pelvis from which the woman has recovered; and also in cases where the deformity is caused by Exostosis, than from a state of 3Ialacosteon where the system is morbidly afl^ected. In cases of this nature, and where the diameter of the superior aperture mea- sures no more than 3 inches from pubis to sacrum, or in either of its lateral diameters the head of the foetus will generally, by the repeated action of the uterus upon its body, be forced to a certain distance within the brim of the pelvis. When this process is so far advanced, and the head remains permanently fixed in the supeiior strait, it will be prudent to attempt delivery w ith the Lever; for I have in many instances succeeded with perfect safety both to mother and child with this instrument, even in cases where the Croichci has been used in the preceding births.It must be allowed that a living mature fcetus Jiiay occasionally be born, where the conjugate <lian]eter of the brim of the pelvis does not reach 3 inches. To corroborate this fact, I am confi- dent that in several cases the lives both of mother and child have been preserved by means either of the Lever or Forceps within this given space. On one woman I employed this mode of deli- very by the Lever with success, in seven succeeding births, where the Crotchet had been used by other practitioners three or four times in preceding cases. Yet it is to be acknowledged that like all other rules there are occasional exceptions to the pro- priety of its adoption, owing to the varying struc- ture and capacity of the pelvis, the flexibility of the cranium, and the expulsive power of the uterus, I am nevertheless inclined to believe, that the majority of mature children will perish either during labour or soon after birth, when the antero- posterior diameter of the superior aperture of the pelvis is not more than 3 inches. Much how- ever will depend on uterine action, and the reduc- tion of the bulk of ihe foetal head. I have before remarked, that the size of the , head of a male child is generally greater, and more compact than that of the female; and in cases where the pelvis is contracted only a very few lines, this trifling variation, when combined with 2 u338 other circumstances, may render labour lingering; and tedious to the mother, and sometimes dan- gerous to the child, by tlie pressure affecting the brain, even when, the superior aperture exceeds 3 inches from pubis to sacrum. Hence the propriety of using the Lever as soon as the OS uteri is dilated, and the head of the foetus has advanced a little way into the brim of the pelvis, provided its application be admissible with safety, rather than involve the life of the child in unnecessary danger, either by the use of the Crotchet, or the act of turning and delivenng by the feet; a practice too much followed in cases of deformed pelvis, and which in the most pro- mising situations is always attended with risk to the child. It may further be remarked, that this unscientidc method has not in every circumstance, and mode of presentation, been clearly explained by its advocates. Foetal life under certain conditions of parturi- tion is very precarious and soon destroyed; while in other instances apparently dangerous, the vital principle is extinguished with greater difficulty. Premature delivery may be advantageously ob- tained in cases of violent uterine hemorrhage, when the woman's life appears in jeopardy ; m this situation it may afford the best means of relief both to mother and fcetus, as the nature of the case tends to dispose the soft parts for the safe339 exit of the cliikl, wliile the bu th leaves the uterus in a more fit condition to perforin its contractile powers, by which a recurrence of haemorrhage is resisted. From the result of cases of this descrip- tion we become enabled, in some degree, to draw a parallel of success between abortions and cases of premature induction, at similar periods of ges- tation. Another situation wherein premature delivery has been recommended, is in certain cases of habitual or periodical miscarriages happening at that period of gestation, from which there might otherwise be a probability of the foetus surviving its birth. The use of this operation while there remains a prospect of the foetus being born alive, will involve the accoucheur in much ambiguity, particularly as the exact date of impregnation cannot clearly be ascertained, nor can we alto- gether be assured of the life of the foetus in utero, or whether the woman might not go to her full reckoning. Till the art of mid wifery has arrived at that degree of perfection which will secure a knowledge of these data, I think no one excusable who inconsiderately attempts this species of delivery ; for there are not wanting instances of women, who, after a number of successive immature births, have at length gone to the full period of nine months, and become mothers of families. To corroborate this assertion, it is310 necessary to remark, that 1 have witnessed in niy own practice many who have miscarried at a given period of pregnancy; in some instances this event occurred as often as six, eight, or ten times, to the same woman, who has afterwards produced healthy mature children; and in one instance the woman had fifteen successive un- timely births, and eventually was blessed with a living mature child, who is now advanced to manhood. Authors appear divided in opinion respecting the danger incurred by this operation; but this will in a great measure depend on constitutional affection existing at the time, together with the extent of distortion of the pelvis ; so that under a diversity of incidental circumstances combined in this operation, some of which will always remain concealed from us, we are at a loss how to advise in every case. But when the accoucheur has made himself acquainted with every pos- sible opposing difficulty connected with the sub- ject, it is presumed he will not err materially in making his own selection respecting the pro- priety of premature induction, and the most eligible time for its commencement, with the view of insuring a prosperous result to the foetus. On the other hand, the hazard should not be over- looked which results from this operation to the woman, at the period of the seventh month, as841 it may vary in proportion to the mischief in- curred by subverting the natural uterine func- tions, and because long continued exertion of the powers of the constitution is often required to ac- complish the expulsion of the child at this period of gestation. And if the accoucheur has not availed himself of the most favourable time for the ope- ration, difficulty will be thereby increased, and other assistance required, which will expose both the mother and foetus to danger. In cases where the pelvis is greatly defective from rickets, and gestation is completed, the practice of Em- bryulcia, though much used in this country, is always fatal to the child, and frequently proves a source of danger to the mother. This fatality, 1 am persuaded, might sometimes be averted by having recourse to Hysterotomy, a mode of delivery sanctioned by continental accoucheurs ;* and it is to be lamented that a universal rule of ju'actice is not altogether observed, in every country, consonant with the true principles of the art, founded on the nature and judgment of existing difficulties, matured by a sense of duty, and aided by reading and reflection on the works of eminent authors. Such practical results when * Sec Hull's Translation of Baudeiocque's Memoirs on the Cajsarean Operation.342 established on a true basis, would tend to guard the accoucheur from timidity on the one hand, or teujerity on the other. " Quern non servasti cum potuisses, eum occidisti/' Were we to hazard an opinion of the event of a miscarriage at the above-mentioned period, it would be too problematical, as thereby we might inadvertently be led to conclude that little danger to the mother would follow this mode of delivery ; but as the uterus is an organ in no respect go- verned by the will, and the efforts of that viscus are most regular when left uninterrupted, no accurate comparison can be established between an abortion, and delivery arlificially produced at the seventh month of gestation; nor between the event of a labour at the full period of preg- nancy, where the pelvis is known to be rather under the natural standard. vSuch then are the diversified modes of practice in cases of distortion of the pelvis, and such the uncertainty of the results, that the generality of practitioners have been deterred from having re- course to premature hiduction. Having been in the habit of frequently exciting premature labour in cases of distorted pelvis, since the year 1803, with success to the mother m every instance, and generally with safety to the child. It would be swelling this essay to an un-343 necessary length, to recite the whole of the cases at length, particularly as they bear so much affinity to each other. I have, in consequence, been induced to select one case out of the number, and shall close the subject by adding a few general remarks ; being persuaded from experience, that the eventual suc- cess of the operation requires great circumspection and discernment, in selecting the most advanta- geous and opportune period for protecting the foetus from danger, and the mother from harm. Ellen Pickles, resided in the village of Rish- x ton, about three miles from Blackburn she was a woman of low stature, and when a child was afflicted with Rickets. She had three children ; two of the first I was obliged to extract by means of the Crotchet, owing to a distortion of the pelvis; the life of the third child, which is the subject of the following narrative, was fortunately preserved by exciting premature labour. The time for this operation being selected, I visited her on the 15th of January, 1803, and requested on leaving her, after the necessaiy procedure, that she would dispatch a messenger for me whenever the pains of labour commenced. On the evening of the following day I was sent for; and on exa- mination per vaginam, perceived the os uteri was dilated to the circumference of a crown; the pains were strong, and had been increasing in force and344 frequency the greatest part of the day. The head of the foetus was moveable by the pressure of the finger against the presenting cranium, and conse- quently was not then become fixed in the superior aperture. lu about two hours I repeated my examination, and found the os uteri had com- pleted its full dilatation; the head of the child was advanced some way in the superior strait, where it remained stationary for the space of about two hours, though the uterine action was very considerable. I now began to fear the child would suffer unless some mechanical assistance could be afforded. Thus situated, 1 was induced to apply the Lever, by which in a few minutes the birth was effected with tolerable ease, and perfect safely both to mother and child. The period fixed upon for exciting premature labour in this woman, was as near that of the latter end of the seventh or beginning of the eighth month of uterine gestation, as could possibly be ascertained.* The child when born appeared lively yet imma- * I am well aware of the uncertainty and difficulty of ascer- taining the exact ternx of impregnation in the human species, from causes too obvious to mention: but the date of the event in the present case, appears more clearly established than some others, as the woman's husband had returned from military service about the time fixed upon for the commencement of her gestation.345 jtiire, and is now grown up; the mother's recovery was interrupted, in a slight degree, by a swelling- of one of tlie lower extremities; she, however, died in a subsequent delivery, aft^r the use p'f th(? -Crotchet by another practitioner. I had taken repeated and very accurate ad- measurements of this female's pelvis after each of the two preceding labours, by means of the in- troduction of the hand as a pelvimeter, in the way recommended in the commencement of this essay, and uniformly found the superior aperture from pubis to sacrum, to measure rather more than 2^ inches, and on both sides the space was also percep- tibly diminished below this gauge, and the inferior aperture appeared somewhat less than natura,!. The opinion of the spontaneous separation of the bones of the pelvis during labour, is now by most authors exploded,* and the diameters of the * For the satisfaction of those who wish to see the influence which this doctrine occasioned, together with the evil tendency it had on the obstetric art, I refer them to the works of Hippo- crates, Galen, Vesalius, Harvey, Aviccnna, Morgagni, Roedc- rer, Riolanus, Scidtetus, Ambrose Parcy, Mauriceau, Den- vian, and Baudelocque. Severinus Pineus, a French Surgeon, who lived about the middle of the fifteenth century, collected the opinions of all the authors anterior to his time, and formed a small treatise on the subject. This supposed separation of Ihe bones of the pelvis, in a}l probability, gave rise to the Sigultian Operation, for Pineus re- commended balhs, and emollient lotions, and unctuous subslancegi346 female pelvis (except in cases of Malacostenn, or under some very peculiar circumstances) acquire little or no augmentation during the process of labo*ur, therefore our hopes must rest chiefly on uterine action combined with the degree of com- pressibility in the fcetal cranium; and this is so variable that scarcely two fcetal heads will be found to yield with the same facility to an equal degree of expulsive uterine power when passing through the pelvic passage. Yet this body will sometimes become modelled in a wonderful man- ner to the winding apertures of the pelvis; and in some instances of distortion, I have observed after birth an evident depression of a portion of the cranium and denudation of the integuments which had been caused by the projecting angle of distortion, opposed against the head of the fcetus during labour : but such injury alone, except m very long and tedious labours, will seldom become dangerous. Nature has imparted to the bones of the cranium such flexibility, that they will sus- tain considerable pressure without any palpable marks of injury either to the cranium or the functions of the brain. Perhaps this important to be applied to the pubis, to relax the symphysis of those bones .vith the view ol-affording the child a free passage by their giving xvaydnring labour.-Vide Chap. 10, Opuscul. and Physiolog. and Auatom. lib 2. S. Pineau.347 organ is comparatively less affected by injury during parturition, or in early infancy, and before it has acquired the faculty of associating the dif- ferent impressions of sensation, than at a more advanced period of existence ; nevertheless, if the scale of disparity between the diameter of the pelvis and the head ogf the foetus be very consi- derable, so that the existing disproportion at any parturient period of gestation amount to f of an inch, it is highly probable that not only a depres- sion of the cranium of the foetus may take place, but a detachment of the pericranium and dura mater ; hence internal extravasation and conse- quent derangement of structure will ensue, and the vital functions of the brain be either greatly impaired or wholly destroyed : particularly if either the Forceps or Lever have been used to facilitate the birth. I am much mistaken if I have not, in many instances, been able to trace to this source some lamentable instances of de- ranged intellect and hydrocephalic affections in children thus barbarously used during delivery. It is the opinion and practice of some accou- cheurs, that in cases of distortion, as above spe- cified, some advantage may be obtained by revers- ing the foetus, and attempting delivery by the feet; but the difficulty of effiecting this with safety will very seldom authorise such a procedure. Many shocking instances are recorded by authors34^ ^vhere either the pelvis was distorted, or some huprudent and oflicious steps of the accoucheur eventually produced the loss of the fcetus by this clandestine mode of delivery * Such, for example, are those related by Smellie, Gif- fard, Dease, Nihell, Portal, La Motle, Perfect and Ambrose Parey, M'here the head of the foetus was separated from the body, aud left in the Uterus, or cavity of the pelvis. Fielding Ould gives an example well worth attention, of a woman whose pelvis was much distorted, in which case he turned the foetus with a view of facilitating delivery ; unfortunately, he adds, " after many vain endeavours, I was at last obliged to separate the body from it (the head) by turning it round, whereby the neck was dislocated." Though the extent of distortion in this case is not precisely mentioned by the author, yet it must ' have been considerable ; and had he availed himself of a knowledge of the diameters of the pelvis, together with the relation it bore to the foetal head, prior to turning the child, in all pro- , bability he would have saved its life, and spared himself some unnecessary fatigue, and doubtless, * This fact I have been abundantly convinced of in those cases of distortion of the pelvis wliere the presentation has been preternatural, which occurrence I am induced to believe takes place more frequently where the pelvis is distorted than other- wise.349 die \Vomai) much pain, by waiting a due time and attempting- delivery either witli the Forceps or Lever : and if inefficient, recourse might have been had to the use of the Crotchet, though it is to be observed, that ih every case these nistru- ments ouo-ht to be used with prudence and discrimination. When the pelvis measures barely 2f inches id the superior strait, it would be extremely hazard- ous to attempt to turn the foetus, and in most cases utterly impossible to accomplish delivery without lessening the volume of the head by evacuating the brain; and should the small diameter of the Superior aperture rfeach 3 inches, the head of a mature foetus may under certain favourable con- ditions of structure and position, occasionally be- come moulded to the passage, and pass uninjured either by the efforts of nature or manual assistance. Still I am disposed to conclude, that were a just estimate to be formed of the fatality atten- dant on the foetus, in this last stated degree of distortion of the pelvis, the balance w^ould pre- ponderate on the destructive scale, even under the most skilful management. Granting this inference to be just, does it not api)ear that premature delivery offers a more fa- vourable resource, when the superior aperture of the pelvis measures from pubis to sacrum, or m any other of its diameters, between 2J to 2| inches,350 for the preservation of the foetus, lliaii any other mode yet adopted ? Manual assistance sometimes becomes neces- sary, even where the capacity of the pelvis bears a favourable relation to the head of the foetus.* This may be caused by the head becoming pro- pelled into an improper axis of the pelvis ; though the expulsive efforts of the uterus, even when con- tinued for several days, would scarcely be sufficient to effectuate delivery without the aid of instru- ments. Yet in such instances, where the head has become thus permanently locked in the pas- sage, the Crotchet may be eventually requisite; when it is to be particularly observed, that the succeeding labour may terminate without instru- mental aid with perfect safety both to mother and child. Hence it appears manifestly absurd to conclude, that on all occasions where the Crotchet has been once used, a similar obstacle may ob- trude, and render the same means necessary in every subsequent instance. This circumstance un- doubtedly demands the strictest attention from the accoucheur, lest the life of the fcetus be wan- tonly sacrificed, through the indiscriminate adop- tion of a foAuer mode of operation. * This nvdl-position of the foetal head, is frequently occasioned by the iuadvortance or importunity of the accoucheur rupturing the membranes before the head has become engaged iu ihc brim of the pelvis.351 Were it necessary I could atUluce several cases to which I have been called, which sufficiently illustrate the evil of this oversight. An instance not very dissimilar to some above mentioned, occurred to a practitioner of ray acquamtance. The woman had been repeatedly delivered by the Crotchet, by different accoucheurs, and her pelvis, it is said, was so much distorted on the left side* from exostosis as not to admit any material part of the child's head to pass through it. In one of her labours the practitioner was in- duced to turn the foetus ; but this expedient was attended with the usual fatality of her former labours, and the child became mutilated in the attempt, by his exertions, and the head severed from the body. Fortunately, however, the head was afterwards extracted, and the woman re- covered. At the full period of her next state of utero- gestation, it was my lot to attend this unfortunate female. On my arrival I found the os uteri com- pletely dilated, and in less than fifteen minutes a mature living child was expelled, without the aid of any instrument. This successful event .sur- prised me no little, and this more particularly on * For a detailed account of one of this woman's labours. See Dr. Hull's Observations on the Caesarean Operation, Part 2, Pages 246—7.352 tlie introduction of the hand, for the purpose of ascertaining- the cause of so unexpected a pheno- menon, for on the most accurate examination, I could not trace the smallest line of distortion to exist in any of the apertures or cavity of tiiis female's pelvis, nor on the most minute enquiry was I able to learn that she had ever laljoured under any previous accident or disease, either of Mickets^ Exostosis, or Malacosteon. In about sixteen months from this parturient confinement, I was requested to attend this wo- man a second time in labour, but being at that time pre-engaged, another pra,Ctitioner now resi- dent in this town attended her, and delivered her of a fine healthy mature child, without the least difficulty. This case, together with two others of a similar description, to which I have been called, proves in a striking manner the absolute ne- cessity of ascertaining by the touch, the dimen- sions of the different apertures of the pelvis, in every possible instance, prior to any mode of artificial delivery, and of not implicitly relying on any former mode of practice, however highly it may have been sanctioned. I trust, from what I have advanced in the pre- ceding pages on this important subject, that the propriety of exciting premature labour will ap- pear in a great measure established, when per- formed within the given restrictions in the second353 <legree of distortion of the pelvis, as specified in the Synoptical Tahle. Though well aware that the success of premature induction depends much on accurate tactile ad- measurement of the apertures of the pelvis, I must acknowledge that the acquisition of this indispensable recjuisite in the obstetric art, owing- to inattention and the fallibility of human judg- ment, is liable to occasional errors. To facilitate future enquiry on this subject I have tliought proper to add a Synoptical Tahle of the various degrees.of distortion incident to the female pelvis, which are likely to occur to the accoucheur in his practice. To these variations of deformity are annexed different methods of delivery, as distinctive guides for the practitioner. Still he should bear in mind the absolute impossibility of determining the mean degree of compressibihty which the cranium of the fcetus may undergo by the efforts of the uterus, exerted upon that body during labour, and also the difficulty of fixing, in a tabular form, within a fraction, every possible deviation betwixt the natural dimensions, and the greatest degree of distortion. 2 Y354 I—I O ■ei ^ O ^ £ .2 s « ? 4J 0^ Q o S o m "> "a; <u s .3 .^-'^ ffort vith, Lever. 0) "3 tn or 1/3 n t/i u > Q 5 c • (—t O CO o o s 01 4) u Ol Q s CI a; g p V to -a t3 c o u c t- O — 01 "a; CO a O Si 0) 60 2 "5 O CO Ol es to ft! O o &4 Qi O S O o ^ CU ,c Sd o s o355 THREE CASES OF CiESAREAN OPERATION. Jane Foster, of the village of Blachrocl, was in the fortieth year of her age, of a robust constitu- tion, and mother of several living children. She had the misfortune, on returning from Wigan market, to fall from a loaded cart, the wheel of which passed over her pelvis as she lay on her back. The injury she sustained from this accident made confinement to her bed necessary, for about six weeks. She was attended on this occasion by the late Mr, White of Manchester, Mr. Hawarden of Wigan, and some others. From enquiry of Mr. Hawarden, 1 learned that one of the ossa ilei was fractured, and much injury done to the whole pelvis, particularly to the ossa pubis. This information was confirmed to me afterwards by Mr. White, in a conversation I had with him on the subject. The woman being then in great misery from the accident, was very adverse to an accurate examination, yet the above statement seems highly probable, both from an irregularity at the part, and from the elevation356 of the head of the thigh bone, on tlie left side. This produced a shortening of the limb, and of course a limping. Soon after her recovery from this injury she became pregnant, and on Friday, November 22iid, 1793, she was seized with labour pains, being then at the full period of utero-gestation. Tlie midwife who attended her in her former labours was sent for on this occasion, but having Avaited with her several .days, without the least prospect of delivery, she thought it advisable to have more assistance, especially as the waters were discharged on the second day of the labour, and no part of the child could be ascertained to present within reach. On Tuesday the 26th, 1 was desired to meet Mr. Hawarden of Wigan, ^ upon a consultation on this case, but arriving a little before him, I examined the parts per vaginam, and was extremely surprised to find that I could barely pass my finger between the ossa pubis and the last lumbar vertebra, so great was the narrowness at the brim. Besides this, the outlet was so much contracted that it was with some difficulty I could introduce three fingers at that part. After asking some questions, I was informed of the accident. This information induced me to repeat my examination with more exactness, in order the better to ascertain the precise dimensions.357 Havin- introduced my finger again, I perceived a very evident depression of the ossa pubis, with a protuberance in a direction somewhat more to- wards the hollow of the sacrum, than in an exact line with the last lumbar vertebra. From this I was led to suspect, that there had been besides the fracture, a separation at the symphysis pubis, and that the protuberance just mentioned was the consequence of a deposit of bony matter at the separated part: and some idea may be formed of its quantity, from knowing that it projected to within half an inch of the os sacrum. With some difficulty I carried up my finger sufficiently high to judge concerning the degree of dilatation of the OS uteri, which appeared to be considerable, as far as I could judge from feeling its anterior edge, which was thin and flabby; but no part of the child was within reach. Her pains had left her the night before; her anxiety was very great, her pulse full, and res- piration difficult. This last symptom was mo- derated by the loss of ten ounces of blood from the arm. On conversing with Mr. Hawarden, he con- curred with me concerning the nature of the case, and the impossibility of bringing the child away by the natural passage. Some little conversation passed on the propriety of a division at the sym- physis pubis, but it appeared to us both, that the358 narrowness at tlie brim was too considerable to allow much advantage from such an operation, therefore that project was soon abandoned. The only alternative was the Caisarean Operation; but the well known danger of this, induced Mr. Hawarden to decline taking any part in it, and he immediately returned home. Convinced, therefore, of the impossibility of ef- fecting delivery by any other means, it was pro- posed to her attendants but was not then assented to. Indeed the idea seemed so dreadful that I did not urge it much, especially when I recollect- ed that of the nine or ten instances then on record, in which that operation had been performed in this country, not one had furnished a voucher for its success. In this forlorn and dangerous situa- , tion she was left to the care of the midwife, and desired to make up her mind as soon as possible concerning the operation. On the morning following, (Wednesday 27th,) I was again sent for, and found her lingering in the same situation. She consented to the operation without the least hesitation. I immediately called in an as- sistant in the operation, Mr. Hawarden, a practi- titioner in the village (Blackrod,) and brother of Mr. Hawarden of Wigan, before mentioned. The patient being taken out of bed, and placed upon a table, lying on her back, with her head359 raised by pillows, I began by making a longitu- dinal incision five inches and a half in length, as high as the navel parallel to the linea alba, and about two inches to the left of that line. The integuments and the left rectus muscle being cut through, a small opening was made through the peritoneum at the upper part; and by means of a probe-pointed bistoury, this membrane was dilated to the same extent as the external parts.* The uterus was now exposed to view and an incision of the same length was continued through it. The child presented with its breech, and was extracted through the artificial opening, but unfortunately was dead, yet did not shew any material signs of putrefaction. The placenta and membranes were then extracted with the greatest ease. The uterus was very thin, scarcely ex- ceeding that of the peritoneum, and equally so through the whole extent of the incision. No at- tempt was made to examine the pelvis from the abdominal wound. The hands of a female as- sistant were applied on each side of the abdomen, to prevent the admission of external air, and to press out any blood that might be difi'used among * It may be requisite to state, that at the commencement of the operation Mr. Hawarden was suddenly seized with a violent fit of syncope, which wholly incapacitated him firora attending to the steps of the operation, and having no other professional person present, I was obliged to be assisted by a female attendant.S60 the intestines, after which the sides of tlie wound were bronglit together and secured by seven su- tures, over which slips of adhesive plaster were appUed, and the dressing completed by a few turns of a flannel bandage round the body. The peritoneum was not included in the sutures, and no part of the viscera protruded during the operation, neither were there any blood vessels divided which required to be secured by ligature. It was a fortunate circumstance that no haemorr- hage followed the extraction of the placenta, as was to be apprehended from an atonic condition of the uterus, the effect of long distention. The womb contracted properly, the lochia were about the usual quantity, and continued as in other cases. The poor woman scarcelj" complained during the operation, so great was her fortitude. Soon after she was put into bed, she slept without taking any medicine for that purpose, and passed a good night. On the 29th she complained of a fulness about the region of the stomach, with an inclination to vomit, and on laying my hand on the abdomen, a degree of tension was distin- guishable. Her tongue had a whitish appearance, and her pulse about 120. A laxative clyster was administered with the desired effect, and the painful tension of the abdomen yielded to the stimulating effects of a blistering plaster. In short, all the symptoms which had before indi-361 cated irritatioii, now sufFered a very obvious re- mission. Four days having- elapsed since tlie operation, it was thought eligible to remove every other suture ; on the sixth the remaining ones were taken away, and the wound appeared per- fectly healed. Though she had been a nurse to her other chil- dren, she experienced no uneasiness in her breasts on the present occasion. Her health continued in an improving condition until December 4th, when it received some interruption for a few days from a diarrhaea, but which was checked by an astringent mixture. On the 10th she ventured out of bed, on the 17th she began to attend to her domestic employment, from which time, to the present, (an interval of 28 years) she has enjoyed a good state of health, menstruated with regularity to the usual period of life, but never been pregnant. CASE II. AxN N Hacking, of Blackburn, a married wo- man, in the 42nd year of her age, and at the full period of gestation, was seized with labour pains no Thursday, July 24th, 1817, at 2 o'clock in the morning. Mr. Cort, surgeon, of this town, was called to her assistance, at 7 o'clock, a. m. and on making- 2zan examination per vaginam, he discovered the apertures of the pelvis to be so extremely dis- torted, that delivery by means of the Crotchet appeared to him manifestly impracticable. Thus circumstanced, Mr. Cort called upon me, and solicited my opinion on the case ; and I accom- panied him to the patient. We were informed that the membranes had ruptured spontaneously soon after the commencement of labour ; and the liquor amnii kept dribbling away during the re- peated action of the nterus. Her pulse was 94 strokes in a minute, and rather full. The force and frequency of the labour pains rapidly in- creasing, it was judged proper to allay the inor- dinate action of the arterial system by the loss of a few ounces of blood, taken from the arm; which was done by Mr. Cort, about 12 o'clock at noon. On enquiry into the previous history of the woman's situation, I learned the following parti- culars from herself and attending friends. She had been married 12 years, and given birth to two living children; the younger is now about 7 years old ; from this parturient period she dated the origin of her present indisposition. She had been troubled with partial prolapsus uteri ever since the delivery of her first child (except durmg the terms of pregnancy) and become so exceed- ingly lame, that for the last seven years she was363 obliged to walk with the assislance of a crutch. Subsequent to this period, her health by conti- nual suflering- and long confinement, had been gra- dually declining, and eventually she was rendered unable to walk or stand without support, and subjected her to the necessity of being carried to and from bed for 4 years past, and it was appa- rent that even in a recumbent position, the least motion of the body occasioned exquisite pain. On a careful examination per vaginam, I found the dimensions of the apertures of the pelvis very much diminished, as had been previously repre- sented to me by Mr. Cort. The two rami of the ossa ischia approached so near each other, that I was not able to pass my fore finger betwixt them, except in the space just under the sym- physis of the ossa pubis, which appeared rather laro-er, though not sufficient to admit the point of more than one finger, in any direction. In the superior aperture, 1 readily perceived a pro- minence of the OS sacrum, and inferior lumbar vertebrae; the approximation of which was so near to the anterior margin of the pelvis that two fingers could not be placed edge-wise be- tween these projecting points in any part of the brim, except in a line with the ossa pubis. Hence I became compelled by professional duty to declare, that it was manifestly impracticable to effect delivery by Embryotomy.; and that the364 Oscsarean Section was the only alternative for the preservation of either the mother or the foetus. After some deliberation, and on conversing ■with Mr. Cort on the invincible nature of the case, we both repeated our examinations with much circumspection ; and he fully concurred with me in opinion, that delivery by the natural passage was quite impossible. The prominent and pendulous state of the ab- domen very much arrested my attention, and in order, if possible, as a further expedient, to as- certain the precise nature of the presentation of the fcBtus, I pressed with one hand on the pro- minence of the abdomen, during the labour pains, whilst with the fingers of the other in the vagina, 1 endeavoured to bring the presenting part of the foetus into the axis of the pelvis ; yet neither Mr. Cort nor myself, by this means, could possibly distinguish by the touch the os uteri volume of the uterus, or any part of its contents. Our unanimous sentiment was stated to the woman, who without hesitation cheerfully consented to undergo the Caesarean operation. Though the bowels had previously been kept in a lax state, yet an aperient clyster was judged expedient, by means of which a plentiful evacua- tion was procured. The poor woman's strength and spirits were supported by tea and ripe fruit, and as free a ventilation of air was admitted asI 365 her conaned apartment would permit. We now retired for a while, after which Mr. Cort oblig- ingly called upon me, and I again accompanied him to the patients house, where we arrived about three o'clock, p. m. The mknagement of the case unexpectedly devolving upoPx me, I immediately introduced the Catheter and evacu- ated the contents of the bladder. She was now cautiously removed from the bed and placed upon a table, lying on her back, with her head sup- ported by pillows, and her legs suspended over the edge of the table opposite the window. Having every thing in readiness necessary for the occasion, I commenced the operation by making a longitudinal incision, 7 inches in extent, begin- ning about three inches above, and near two inches on the right side of the umbilicus, extending it downwards parallel to the linea alba through the skin and adipose membrane ; and the pa- rietes of the distended abdomen being very thin, I made a small cut through the tendinous expan- sion of the right recti muscle and peritoneum, opposite the navel, in a corresponding line with the first incision, and passing two fingers into the opening, thus using them as a director, the division of the parts was completed upwards and downwards to the extent of the first incision above-mentioned, by means of the probe pointed bistoury.366 At tliis period of the operation the woman was seized with a violent labour pain, which threatened a prolapsus of the uterus and its con- tents through the abdominal wound; to prevent which, I placed both hands steadily against the propelled parts and desisted from proceeding in the operation till the uterine action ceased. An aperture was next cautiously made with the scalpel through the substance of the womb, suffi- cient to admit two fingers, and dilated with the bistoury in a similar manner and direction, with the outward wound of the integuments. The placenta was fortunately not in the way of the incision of the uterus. The nates and scrotum of the foetus presented at the artificial wound ; and Mr. Cort pressed the obtruding intestines backwards, whilst I passed the fore finger of each hand beyond the groins of the child, and extracted it by the breech as far as the neck, around which the uterus quickly con- tracted, so as to retard the delivery of the head ; I then made rather a powerful extension of the body, (with the fingers placed as before-men- tioned) which soon detached it, whereby a fine healthy male child was extracted alive. On the accession of air into the lungs it cried loudly, a's' is usual when born in the natural way; the umbilical cord being then tied and divided the child was handed to the nurse.3G7 The plaf^enta was extracted with facility, but a portion of tlie membranes adhering to the cervix uteri caused some delay in removing ; during which time a profuse haimorrhage ensued, and I became anxious for the fate of the patient. I endeavoured to excite the action of the uterus by the motion of the hand in its cavity, but to no effect; and another and more efficient expedient occurred to me, which I immediately adopted, by passing both hands over the external surface of the uterus and endeavouring to bring in contact its interior surface, together with the incised edges of the wound Thus applying a uniformly continued pressure for a considerable time, I was able to perceive its bulk evidently lessen, and the heemorrhage greatly diminish, as though I had been compressing a sponge. Whilst waiting for the natural contraction of the uterus, I observed several vessels still pouring out a quantity of blood from the incised edges of that organ which did not wholly yield to the pressure, however applied, and fully aware of the danger attending the effusion of blood into the cavity of the abdomen, and being unfortu- nately at this critical period of the operation wholly deprived of Mr. Cort's aid, in consequence of indisposition, I was induced, in this dilemma, to pause for a short time. During the interval I fortunately recollected a successful case on the308 conliiieiit, related by M. Lebas, wliere the inci- isioii t)f tlie uterus was closed by sutures, I there- fore deteriniued to avail myself of this suggestiou, and without further delay, and assisted by two female attendants, I sewed up the whole wound of the uterus by means of the Glover's suture, leaving a portion of the ligature out at each end of the wound for the purpose of. withdrawing or tightening it, if deemed requisite. After clearing the cavity of the abdomen from the blood unavoid- ably effused during the operation, the lips of the a- perture in the abdominal integuments were brought together and secured by the interrupted suture, care being taken to avoid as much as possible, including any portion of the peritoneum. The integuments were so extremely thin, that the su- tures were made not more than an inch distant from each other, and an opening left at the bottom of the wound to permit the discharge of any fluid which might subsequently collect in the abdominal cavity. A few shreds of adhesive plaster were then applied, to support the sutures, over which •was placed a pledget of lint, and the whole secured in apposition by means of a light'roller passed a few times round the body, fixed in the manner of the T bandage, to keep the uterus and parietes of the abdomen steady, and the incised wounds of the respective parts in perfect juncture with each other to promote a speedy union. The369 poor woman never shrunk during the operation, notwithstanding the unavoidable loss of much blood ; and expressed her happiness on the occa- sion, in which state she was without delay re- moved from the table and laid on her back in bed. Her pulse was tolerably firm, at about 120 ; an opiate was administered by the mouth, which was soon rejected. She did not complain of much pain, and seemed tranquil and disposed to rest; and during the whole time of the operation, she manifested no symptoms of disquietude, but be- haved with becoming fortitude and patience. I saw her the same evening with Mr. Cort, the practitioner before-mentioned, and found her free from pain and fever, and though she had had little or no sleep, her pulse remained about the same. The antiphlogistic regimen was assiduously pur- sued through the whole course of treatment. Friday, July 25th, nine o'clock, a. m. we met again ; she had got some natural sleep and seem- ed refreshed, pulse 120, a trifling discharge had taken place from the opening left at the bottom of the wound. The abdomen appeared a little sore in the vicinity of the sutures on the application of pressure, and she was teased at intervals with troublesome eructations. No thirst, tongue clean and moist, and free from fever. At 4 o'clock, p. M. and 24 hours after the operation, 1 was informed that she had 3 A I370 not had an evacuation by the rectum, conse- quently an aperient clyster was injected, which produced a plentiful discharge. The urinary emissions had been copious during- the night. . Pulse 118 and soft. A plentiful oozing of bloody serum came from the wound. The lo- ch ial discharge rather scanty, to promote which a canula of moderate size was introduced up the vagina as a likely expedient, and which appeared to facilitate the process of nature. At 11 o'clock, p, M. the same day, one of the futures was removed to allow a more free dis- charge from the wound. Pulse 120, skin moist and no febrile symptoms. The eructations still troublesome, but no vomit- ing. As no natural evacuation by the bowels had taken place subsequent to the operation, ten grains of calomel with half a grain of opium were given and retained on the stomach ; but not pro- ducing the desired effect in due time, a clyster was injected and a plentiful discharge of fsaeces followed. No thirst, tongue most, and not coated with fur, pulse 120. ^ Saturday, 26th, at 9 o'clock, a. m. we found her much in the same state as the preceding day, part of the dressings was removed and the lips of the wound appeared in contact, and presented a favourable appearance. The canula was re- moved from the vagina and the lochia seemed371 much more abundant and free from fetor. Pulse 120, soft and regular; little or no thirst, M-ith clear and moist tongue. As the discharge from the wound was considerable, the whole of the plasters and also the ligatures of the uterus were removed. The dressings were applied on the part as before, with the addition of a little cerate spread on lint. She had made urine in the night, and slept at intervals ; spirits good, free from thirst or fever. There appeared a slight degree of tension on the abdominal region^ arid she ex- pressed a sense of pain when pressure was applied near the margin of the incision. At two o'clock p. M. pulse 120, and appeared doing well. At 10 o'clock p. M. no evacuation from the bowels had occurred since the day before, five grains of Ca- loriiel were prescribed, and an aperient clyster ad- ministred which soon produced two passages. The discharge from the wound was increased, but not fetid, and that per vaginam in due quan- tity, pulse 120, and regular, accompanied with a gentle moisture on the skin, no thirst, tongue moist and free from fur, a continuation of the same plan . of regimen was directed to be pursued with the ' addition of a little light gruel, and occasionally a small portion of wine and water. Sunday 27th, at 9 o'clock a. m. she informed us she had slept at intervals during the night, but appeared restless, pulse 130 and more feeble than372 befofe, accompanied with frequent retchings. Had made water freely in the niglit. The dis- charge from the wound as usual, and the lochia rather less in quantity. At 2 o'clock p. M. she appeared to labour under some degree of disquietude, but did not complain of any fixed pain, pulse 130, rather irregular and feeble, attended with inclination to sickness. Tongue moist, no thirst, skin rather dry and the extremities inclined to coldness; yet perfectly sensible, although through depressed spirits the usual vigour of her mind seemed little abated. To allay the irritation of the stomach, a blistering plaster was applied on the vicinity of that region, and a clyster administered which produced a copious stool. At 5 o'clock p. M. I saw her again, the pulse 136, and appearances much more unfavourable; the extremities rather cold, little or no thirst, nor the tongue in the least arid or foul, but quite moist throughout, still sensible and expressed no percep- tion of pain, except what was excited by frequent retchings. No secretion of milk in the breasts. Stomach began to be more irritable, and reject its contents, which had a coffee coloured ap- pearance. The arterial action at this period had become very feeble and irregular, and the symptoms so evidently inauspicious, as to preclude all hopes373 of her recovery ; and in this restless, but sensible condition she languished till about 7 o'clock in ihe evening', when she quietly expired, without the least convulsive motion. APPEARANCIiS ON DISSECTION. Permission being obtained to inspect the body, I solicited the united attendance of Messrs. Cort, Brooks, and Bailey, surgeons of this town, who readily accompanied me the same evening to' the house of the diseased ; and Mr. Bailey com- mitted to writing the morbid appearances, which presented during the dissection. On carefully removing the dressings and taking out the sutures of the abdominal integuments, the edges of the wound receded a little way from each ether almost throughout, which brought the uterus, and a portion of the omentum and intestines into sight. There appeared a slight blush of inflam- mation on several parts of the small intestines, with an adhesion between the convolutions of the ilium and edge of the divided peritoneum, on the risrht side and in a hue with the incision of the abdominal parietes, to the extent of two inches, but so trifling that the connecting medium was easily separated with the fingers. On a more extended inspection of the wound, there were574 noticed also som6 marks of inflammation spread over the greatest portion of the omentum, but more distinguishable on the inferior margin. There was no distension of any of the abdominal viscera, neither flatus nor accumulation of f«ces in any of the intestines. On viewing the uterus in situ, it did not seem much larger than what is presumed usual at the same period, subsequent to delivery on ordinary occasions. The incised edges of the wound of the uterus, assumed a healthy appearance, biit were not in close contact, nor was the cavity wholly closed ; though the incision was reduced by the contractile powers of the organ to about one-third in extent to what it was before the wound was closed by the sutures, soon after extracting the placenta. In order to inspect the internal lining of the uterus, an incision was ex^ tended downwards to the cervix, the margin of the wound appeared about an inch in thickness, and exhibited throughout a uniformity of texture. The OS uteri seemed in circumference equal to a half-crown piece, or sufficient to admit the points of two fingers. There was no inflamma- tion existing either on the anterior or posterior surface of the uterus, except a few small specks, surrounding some of the punctures made with the needle by sewing up the wound at the time of the operation.375 The left ovarium was inflauier], whilst the right was wholly exempt from disease. There was no coagulated blood ia either the cavity of the abdomen or uterus ; but about two ounces of bloody serum were observed in the former venter and no lodgement of fluid in the latter. A portion of the tunica decidua to the extent of a crown-piece, near the cervix, appeared to have disunited from the interior surface of the uterus, but in other respects the internal super- ficies of this viscus presented a healthy appear- ance. CASE III. The folhiving case of Cesarean Operation oc- curred to Mr. Dugdale, surgeon, of Blachhurn, hy whom I was called in consultation, the history of which I will give in his own words. " Early on Friday morning, April 6th, 1821, I was desired to visit the wife of George Ridgedale, in the 42nd year of her age, and in labour of her child at the full period of gestation. Her general health, I was informed by Mr. Barlow, who had attended her in several of her preceding labours, had suffered much for the last two or three years, during which period she had become much reduced in stature, and had not for some months past been able to walk without assistance, owing to a state of general debility of376 the system, induced by an anasarcows airection of both legs, and a state of Malacosteon of the bones of the pelvis. " On my arrival T was informed, that she had had uterine pains upwards of twelve hours, which now recurred at regular periods every ten minutes. ** On examination ])er vaginam I found the os uteri dilated to near the extent of half-a-crown, the membranes protruding into the vagina, but could uot feel the presenting part of the child. " At 6 o'clock,, p. M. her pains returned more frequently, the os uteri appeared to the touch somewhat more dilated than on my former visit, and the membranes so filled the vagina as ren- dered it hazardous to reach the brim of the pelvis without rupturing them. " At 9 o'clock, p. M. the pains wer6 unabated in frequency, but the membranes on examination were so flaccid during the interim of the action of the uterus, that I determined to rupture them, which was done by introducing my hand Avithin vagina, and I found the head of the child pre- senting at the brim of the pelvis, and resting on the edge of the pubis ; it was moveable and easily receded out of the reach by pressure with the point of the finger. " The projection of the sacrum and lumbar vertebra into the cavity of the pelvis, together with the pendulous state of the abdomen, rendered377 it wholly impossible for the head to enter the brim of that aperture. " After rupturing- the membranes, the pains re- turned every five minutes, and on waiting an hour, I repeated my examination; but finding the head not advanced, and considering her life in great danger, I thought of introducing the Perforator with the view of opening tlie head and lessening its bulk by evacuating the brain. To this I was induced on reflecting that in this species of dis- eased affection of the pelvis, the bones frequently yield and allow the head to pass with greater freedom; which circumstance I was since informed by Mr. Barlow, had occurred in two or three of her preceding labours. But on passing the perforator up the vagina uteri, and on making the least pres- sure on the scalp with the point of the instrument, the head receded beyond the reach of the finger, and this project was of course abandoned. " The extent of distortion of the pelvis, toge- ther with the debilitated state of the woman's system, convinced me that she would die in whatever way delivery was accomplished, I was therefore v.nwilling to destroy the child, particu- larly as she assured me that she had felt it move very lately. " Thus situated I judged it prudent to consult my friend, and late preceptor, Mr. Barlow, before mentioned, and waited upon him for that piu-- 3 B378 pose. Mr. Barlow readily yielded to my solici- tation, and accompanied me to the patient's house about twelve o^clock the same evening, when we found her in a state of delirium ; after waiting for some time she became sensible and more composed. " Mr. Barlow now made the necessary exami- nation per vaginam, and remarked that the pelvis was more distorted by a state of 3Ialacosteon than ^ on her preceding labour, on which occasion he had been compelled to deliver with the Crotchet. « On consulting together on the propriety and mode of delivery most proper to be adopted, it was our united opinion that the possibility of effecting this purpose with the Crotchet was doubt- ful, and if attempted she might expire under the operation, and as there was reason to believe the child to be alive, we concluded the Caesarean section to be the most justifiable mode of pro- ceeding. Our sentiments were humediately communi- cated to the woman and her friends, who ex- pressed a wish to have the aid of Dr. Chew on the occasion; a messenger was immediately dis- patched, and in a short time he arrived, and on having made a minute investigation of the state of the pelvis and condition of the woman, he coincided in our decision on the propriety of the operation, and she without hesitation submitted to our proposal.379 Mr. Barlow having attendea her in most of her former labours, she expressed a wish that he wQiild uiulertake the operation, to which he assented. " Every thing necessary for tlie operation bemg prepared, Mr. Barlow, about half-past 3 o'clock A. M., performed the operation in the following manner. " The woman being laid on a bed in a hori- zontal position, with the head and shoulders a little raised by pillows, he corameneed by making a longitudinal incision 7 inches in length, begm- ning 3 inches above the umbilicus and 2 inches on the left side, carefully cutting through the muscles of the abdomen in a line parallel to the linea alba, by which the uterus came in view and appeared in close contact with the abdominal parietes through the whole extent of the wound, from which a small quantity of cerous fluid escaped. " A corresponding incision was then made through the parietes of the uterus, which did not equal the edge of a shilling in thickness in any part, and to which tlie placenta firmly adiiered throughout; in consequence of this attachment, it was thought prudent, rather than expose the woman to hjemorrhage by detaching the placenta from the uterus, to contitiue the incision directly through its substance, which was soon efiecled,and the nates of tlie cliild exposed to view ; the babe was then extracted alive, and on the umbi- lical cord being tied and divided, was handed to a female assistant. " The placenta and membrane were then brought away, and during the contraction of the uterus the bowels protruded at the wound, but were soon returned into their natural situation, and preserved there while the incised integuments of the abdomen were closed together by means of the interrupted suture about the space of an inch from each other, and secured with stripes of ad- hesive plaster and pledgets of lint applied over, and a roller passed a few times round the body in the form of the T bandage. " During the operation, and before the wound was closed, there was a quantity of blood dis- charged from the vessels of the uterus, which might probably amount to ten or twelve ounces. " The woman never complained during the operation, nor seemed disposed to syncope. She was now removed and laid in bed, and appeared much fatigued and sickly. ** April 7th, 7 o'Clock a. m. pulse 120 in the minute, pain of the abdomen, slight discharge per vadnam with nausea and inclination to vomit. R Tinct Opij gutt xx. At 9 A. M. pains and nausea abated, pulse 120, 11 o clock A. M. pulse 130. Tongue a little381 fun-ed and dry ; has very little pain, sickness or retching. Not having- made water since the operation, the Catheter was introduced, and about a pint of lu-ine drawn off. At 8 p. m. pulse 150, tongue moist, sickness and vomiting troublesome ; does not complain of much pain, had no stool. Catheteris Introductio. R Enema Cathart statim infund. R Tinct Opij gutt xv. Sumanturpost dejecerit alvus. 11 p. M. pulse 150, relieved by the Tinct Opij, &c. copious discharge per vaginam and also from the wound. Re])etatur Enema Cathartica R Mistura Cathartica 3^3- capiat coch. duo magna omnihora donee alvus respondeat bis, et dein sumatur Tinct Opij gutt xv. April 8, 8 o'clock a. m. pulse 130, and weaker, tongue furred and dry with thirst. Abdomen tense and hard with sickness and vomiting, profuse evacuation per vaginam ; some discharge from the wound on removing the dressings ; had only one small stool. Catheteris Introductio. *' At 12o'clock merid., pulse 150; stomach rejects every thing she takes; other symptoms as before. Repetatur Enema Cathart. Half-past 2 o'clock p. m. pulse 150; no stool;382 vomiting continues, ft Hydrarg. Submuriat gr, x Opij. gr. j ^ Mucilag. q. s ut fiat Pil ij suniatur statim. " At 8 o'clock p. M. pulse 150 ; tongue furred and dry, with thirst and vomiting-, abdomen tense ; no stool. Catheteris Introductio. Repetatur Pilulae Catharticoe. " April 9, died about 8 o'clock a. m. 52 hours from the time of the operation. " Eight hours after death the abdomen appear- ing much distended. I obtained leave to evacuate its contents with the intention of examining the state of the viscera and pelvis, but was prevented from making so correct an inspection as I could have wished, owing to the interruption of some of her friends. " The incised edges of the integuments of the abdomen had not adhered in any part. " On removing the sutures and enlarging the opening, a small quantity of limpid fluid passed off, similar to what was discharged during the operation. *' The stomach appeared much distended, from AVhich near three quarts of dark-coloured liquid was evacuated. *' The liver was small and light coloured. *' The intestines presented no appearance of inflammation.383 " The uterus seemed free from inflammation ex- cept a slight degree round the edge of the wound. The incision of this organ was contracted to about 2^ inches in extent, and its volume seemed of the usual bulk at the same period after delivery in the natural way. " The dimensions of the pelvis were as follows. " The conjugate or antero-posterior diameter from the symphysis pubis to the nearest point of the sacrum or lumbar vertebra If inch. " The greatest space to be gained on the right side of the brim of the pelvis 2 inches and near i, (viz.) from the anterior part of the acetabulum to the projecting part of the sacrum. *' The greatest distance to be obtained on the left side, between the corresponding points of the right aperture, 1^ inch. " The difference between the diameter of the two sides of the superior aperture is manifested by the last lumbar vertebra projecting inwards and forming a considerable curve in the cavity of the pelvis, induced by a state of Malacosieon, which opposed the chief obstacle to Erabryulcia."384 OBSERVATIONS on DELIVERY, IN DIFFICULT CASES OF THE PRESENTATION OF THE SHOULDER OF THE Fffi TUS; AND WHERE ONE OR BOTH ARMS PRESENT ALONG WITH THE HEAD. On taking a cursory view of the history of Midwifery, it is evident that it was the practice of the ancients in every variety of preternatural presentation, to reverse the part presenting, and substitute the head in its place ; and various un- couth expedients were adopted to accon)pHsh this object. We find Hippocrates, who lived 460 years be- fore the Christian era, (and from which period the most authentic and important improvements in the obstetric art may be dated,) recommending for this purpose, if the arm or leg of the foetus presented, among other absurd customs,* to shake * " Concutere autem hoc modo oportet: super tenui liuteo sub- strate mulier reclinanda, alio superiujecto, quo ejus pudendum obvelelur et utrumque crus tenui linteo tegenduni et utraque raanus. Duae autem mulieres utrumque crus apprehendant, et alise duae utramque manum ; deinde earn ipsam non minus quam decies valide concutiant. Postea vero mulier in ledum reclinetur, ita ut caput deorsum, crura autem sursum habeat, & mulieres I385 and roll the woman and make her jump on the bed ; and if these means failed, he further advises to dismember the foetus, and extract it with in- struments ; for he allows no species of presenta- tioa to be natural except that of the head alone first presenting-. This sentiment was so generally adopted that Pliny* established it in his time as an axiom, that the order of Nature is to enter into the world by the head, and to go out of it by the feet. Aristotle and Galen were of the same opi- nion, and regarded the delivery by the feet as foreign to nature. A mong other authors who embraced the same doctrine, are Mercurialis, Galeatius, Lazarus Pe, Eucharius Rhodion, Marcetus, Varundus, and Perdulcis; and Riverius, a Physician of great reputation, even in the year 1657, condemned delivery by the feet. oranes diraissis nianibus crura appreliendant, eamque crebro in lecte concutiant, facta in humeros rejectione ut in ampliorem locum concussus foetus convertatur et naturaliter piodire posset. De foetus in utero mortui exsectione.—Tom. 12, Pa^. 551. Ibid Pag. 768. * Pliny was cotemporary with the Emperors Vesjmsian and Titus, and though not himself a Physician, yet in conde/nning the dehvery by the feet as being unnatural, we may from hence form a pretty accurate knowledge of the general practice of the times in which he lived ; for he expressly says, " Tliat liiey called tiie children which were born in this manner Agrippas; importing th;it they were born with much pajii." 3 c.386 In allusion to the practice during the earlier ages, when the art of midwifery was in a state of comparative infancy, we are not surprised that such rude expedients should have been adopted in order to rectify the position of the fretus. But it is scarcely credible that we should find similar mea- sures adopted so late as the time of Smellie, and more particularly down to the present period ; for I have noticed precisely the same rude means used by female practitioners. It was an established opinion of the ancient physicians, that the foetus in utero possessed great influence in aid of parturition, by its own eftbrts, which notion led them to embrace many erroneous ideas regarding this process; but it is very pro- bable that whether the foetus be alive or dead it contributes nothing towards its own liberation, except what may arise from its stimulating action exerted on the surface of the uterus during la- bour. On enquiring into the prevalence of the practice of turning the foetus in utero among the earlier writers on midwifery, it appears probable that this important question was agitated for a long time ; that the more enlightened physicians would not suffer themselves to be led away by ancient prejudices or mere authorities ; and that they eventually adopted the contrary method of prac- tice ; such, for example, are Celsus, Aetius,387 Mosch'um, Paulus jEginelta, Seraphion, Avicen- no, P/iilomenes, Mariuello, and Albucasis, who all recommend delivery by the feet in certain preter- natural presentations. Hence it appears that this contrariety of proceeding was disputed till nearly the close of the sixteenth century, and together with some rude and uncouth projects in the art was the mode chiefly adopted till the time of Ambrose Parey, who about this period published his work on the Generation of Man; wherein he boldly rejects the preposterous customs so long established by preceding authors, and expressly points out, with much precision, the great im- provement in the obstetric art by turning the foetus and delivering by the feet, in all unnatural pre- sentations.* During the latter part of the fifteenth century this important art assumed a new era. But im- , X * Parey may also justly be ranked amongst the first who introduced the practice of turning the foetus in cases of uterirfe hsemorrhage ; though his work is silent on that head^ yet his pupil Guillemeau acknowledges this when attending Mad. Simon, daughter to Ambrose Parey. Louisa Burgeois, who published a Treatise on Midwifery, about the year 1609, mentions this mode of deHvery in cases of flooding during pregnancy.—See Chap. 4 and 5. Puzos, a celebrated accoucheur of Paris, likewise claims our early acknowledsfment for having so ably illustrated this subject. See the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris.388 provemeiils in tliis, as in other departments, mfct "witli mucli opposition from writers at different periods; and in consequence, they never became universally adopted till the time of Mauriceau who seems to have given positive injunctions on this head. On reflection it seems a little extraordinary that these modes of delivery should have remained so long fluctuating and undetermined among accour cheurs ; for Celsus^ as well as some other early writers, was aware that childj-en presenting wrong might be turned in the uterus, and extracted by the feet.^ Perhaps this discovery might have met with less opposition anterior to the time of Parey, if the practice had not been too indiscriminately adopted; and there is just reason, even at the present day, to censure the indiscretion of prac- >^itioners in this particular instance, whether from motives of gaining time by the act of turning, or through mere ignorance, it is in either case highly reprehensible. For I am persuaded irre^ * Verum intlis corpori manus injecta protinus habitum ejus sentit, nam aut in caput, aut in pedes conversum est, aut in transversum jacet ; fere tamen sic, ut vel manus ejus, vel pes in propinquo sit, Medici vero propositum est, ut cum manu dirigat vel in caput, vel etiam in pedes, si forte aliter conipositus iest.—Cclsus Lib. 7, Chap. 29.389 parable injury, and sometimes deaUi has beeft the inevitable consequence of such rash and precipitate conduct. See the works of Portal, La Blotte^ Chapman, Smellie, Mauriceau, and Levret. Authors have detailed a great variety of causes to account for preternatural presentations of the foetus. Such, for instance, as distortions of the pelvis; peculiarity in the figure of the uterus, and the manner of the ovum passing into it; the superabundance of the liquor amuii, and the precipitate way in which it is discharged from the bag; the irregularity of nature in implanting the funis into the abdomen of the foetus ; frights, and sudden shocks of the body. As the proximate cause of the adverse presentations of the child appear to be involved in much mystery, and we have no controul over these mechanical and adventitious events, little advantage can accrue to the accoucheur from any conjectural reasoning on the subject. Notwithstanding which, a more correct knowledge relative to the charac- teristic functions of the uterus has been acquired by modern physiologists, and consequently a more rational arid effective mode of conducting the parturient process been adopted. In all mal-positions of the foetus, the difficulty of turning is augmented more or less in proportion to the action of the uterus, the extent of its orifice,390 and llie time wliicli may have elapsed subse- quently to the evacuation of the waters. What chiefly renders the presentation of the shoulder perplexing, is when the liquor amnii has been long discharged, and this prominent part of the f(Getus becomes m edged in the brim of the pelvis by the violent action of the uterus. In this situa- tion the accoucheur should make himself early acquainted with the condition of the woman, and the state of the os uteri; and if the orifice of that viscus be amply dilated and the pains trifling, the position of the child may be ascertained.* He may then proceed to pass his hand cautiously along the posterior part of the uterus, and endea- vour to raise the shoulder a little, while he works his fingers past it, anterior to the breast of the foetus; and as the hand advances, the shoulder will be pushed from its situation at the entrance of the pelvis, towards one of the iliac fossa without * I wish it to be always understood, that when the os iiferi will admit the introduction of the hand with freedom, it is sufficiently expanded for the operation of turning the foetus, but no part of the circle of its entrance should be perceptible when instruments are used. And it may in this place be also proper to observe, that the right hand of the accoucheur is exclusively the most proper to be introduced when it is the right shoulder of the foetus that presents, the woman being laid on her right side; and Dice m-sa—the CQBtents of the bladder and rectum being inva- riably first eiiiplicd.391 directing much force against it. On taking a firm hold of the feet,* they are to be brought down into tiie vagina, by a rotatory manner of proceed- ing; the shoulder will retract and delivery be effected, partly by the efforts of the mother, and partly by the accoucheur, according to the ur- gency of the case ; the success of which depends more on the prtidence and dexterity of the oper- ator, than on his strength. If on the effusion of the liquor amnii, the shoul- der be propelled low in the pelvis, and become wedged in this position, any attempts to turn the foetus will be hazardous, and the difficulty will be commensurate with the action of the uterus, and its degree of dilatation and rigidity. During the presence of these formidable obstacles, the accoucheur should be cautious of exerting much force in attempting to introduce the hand ; or what is equally dangerous, to raise the shoulder, lest a rupture of the uterus be the consequence. For it should be observed as an axiom in prac- tice, that no attempts to turn the fcetus should be made whilst the os uteri is rigid and contracted. In these cases the precipitate and premature prac- tice of rupturing the membranes, can scarcely be too scrupulously avoided, as this untimely event * Sometimes both feet cannot be seized at the same time, in which case deUvery may be attained by the aid of one.392 almost always exposes the woman either to a pro- tracted labour, or other contingent and multiplied afflictions. Under these adverse circumstances, every idea of turning the foetus must for a certain time be abandoned ; for if persisted in the cervix uteri may be lacerated, and its connection M'ith the vagina torn asunder. A quantity of blood pro- portioned to the state of the patient may be ad- vantageously taken from the arm, and a clyster injected up the rectum, containing about 120 mi- nims of Tinct Opij, which by producing sleep or composure, will generally controul the action of the uterus sufficiently to allow the introduction of the hand with safety, for the purpose of turning and extracting the child. Yet notwithstanding our best directed efforts, when delivery has been protracted beyond due time, the child generally falls a victim, even though the pelvis be well formed, and every means used which the art can suggest. In some rare instances, the accoucheur will be able by the touch, to perceive the presenting hand or other parts of the foitus, through the unrup- tured amnion-tumor, where the os uteri is yielding, and in part dilated. It may be proper in this place to remark, that I have witnessed, in several instances, a succes- sion of changes in the position of the foetus, during393 my attendance on the same labour. Such an occurrence is probably not so rare as might at first view be imagined; for the attitude of the child in utero is not absolutely fixed by nature, in the majority of cases, before the membranes are ruptured ; as its presentation whether natural or pre- ternatural is greatly influenced by the quantity of surrounding fluid in which it floats, as well as by the manner of its effusion during the pi-imary stage of labour. Under these equivocal circumstances, and where the presentation is preternatural, it may become a question whether the operator should immediately and indiscriminately proceed to turn the foetus, or allow the labour to go on Avithout the interference of art. Though I am no :advocate for interrupting the ordinary course of nature, yet if during the period of parturition, jwhen attended with a changeable presentation of the foetus, the accoucheur should discover with the finger, through the unruptured membranes, the head and hand presenting in the axis of the brim of the pelvis, the sack may be immediately lacerated, and during the discharge of the waters it will naturally descend into the superior strait, and most probably prevent a wrong presentation by causing a recession of one or both superior extremities, which had previously accompanied .the head. On the contrary, if the head be found to present along with one or both superior 3d394 extremities, and to reiiiaiii stationary, the ute- rus being completely dilated, and the mem- branes whole, turning may be advisable. But if all these circumstances be not combined, it is better to wait, if it can be done with propriety, for a more favourable conversion of the foetus; and thus, by a strict observance of these measures, a labour may sometimes be terminated naturally, which otherwise would have proved preternatural. Such occurrences are, however, rarely noticed by accoucheurs, and hence a very limited conception can be formed of their nature and results, unless acquired by much practical attention. The presence of an arm in the vagina, when the shoulder occupies the superior aperture of the pelvis, with the os uteri only partially dilated and the uterine action irresistible, is an obstacle suffi- cient to oppose the propriety of the introduction of the hand for the purpose of reversing the foetus, and extracting it by the feet, and this should not be attempted till the uterus has been appeased by bleeding and opiates. In such circumstances, an attempt to reduce the arm when thus protrud- ing, or to extract the foetus by violence, is neither necessary nor altogether practicable, even if the oriacium uteri were relaxed and dilated to its full extent. The passing of the operator's hand cautiously along the side of the arm and breast of the foetus395 in searcli for the feet, is almost always practicable when the violent action of the uterus has been checked by appropriate means. In this species of nial-presentation, and under the circum- stances above-mentioned, the arm of the foetus, however swollen or situated, cannot wholly resist the operator's efforts if judiciously exerted, for the trifling- bulk of the accoucheur's hand, when combined with the arm of the child, can never exceed that of the body or head of a mature infant, consequently can present no powerful ob- struction to the process of turning and delivering by the feet, when skilfully conducted. Oil some occasions, though the shoulder of the foetus originally presented alone, yet when the orificium uteri is become dilated and a rupture of the membranes takes place, the arm will, by the efforts of the uterus, be forced into the vasina and the hand be protruded at the os externum, or be bent in the passage, so that tfie elbow will supply its place externally. In this posture of the foetus some authors have suggested that deli- very might be effected by pulling at the arm ; others have directed to return it into the uterus and extract the foetus by the feet; whilst a third has amputated the arm at the shoulder joint, or twisted it off. Another project, not less cruel and absurd than the above, has been recom- mended, when only one hand presented to search396 for the other, and attempt delivery by pulling at both extremities at the same time: but this im- pediment seldom or ever calls for such inhuman interference, and the records of obstetric practice furnish us with too many examples of such wan- ton barbarity and ignorance. The swelling and putrefaction of the arm, oc- casioned chiefly by compression when having re- mained long out at the os externum, is sometimes only a local affection, consequently does not au- thorize amputation before birth. Amongst the deplorable examples of this description, there is one related by Chapman, page 49, where the foetus was supposed by the accoucheur to be dead, and who on having one arm amputated whilst in the vagina uteri, afterwards lived to be a mani An equally shocking instance is related by Crantz, De re Instrum, in arte obstetric, sect. 9, page 13. A man-midwife fixed a hook on the head of a foetus and dragged out the child from the ute- rus ; the child was much bruised, but still ahve, and cried loudly ; the accoucheur perceiving this immediately pressed the infant to death. More instances might be adduced from authors, of chil- dren being wantonly dismembered while in the womb, and a few of this description have fallen under my own cognizance ; but it is unnecessary to recount such acts of cruelty, as they can serve no good purpose to direct our future practice.mi Seie tiie works of La Motte, Roederer, i)avetilur^ and JBaudelocque. The advice of Chamherlen is not inapplicable in this place, " That timidity is in this case, more pardonable than temerity; and that it is better to be deceived in treating a dead infant as if it were alive, than a living one as if it were dead." There are instances where the shoulder of the foetus has become wedged in the superior aperture of the pelvis, by the long continued force of the uterus, in such a manner that the hand of the operator cannot be pushed by the presenting part into the uterus without using violence. To en- counter this obstacle it has been judged expedient to push or raise the shoulder from its situation^ by means of instruments constructed with that de- sign. Dr. JBurton made use of what he calls a a Crutch, with this view; and the Impellens of Albucasis is intended for the same purpose ; but if the practitioner will in the first place endeavour to allay the impelling force of the uterus by admi- nistering opiates, and having recourse to copious bleeding from the arm, as before directed, these difiiculties will then give way to the introduction of the hand during the absence of pain; and by due perseverance it will gain admission to one or both feet, and the shoulder will thereby be turned aside, and delivery be accomplished without the Use of instruments. It is essentially necessary,398 on all occasions where manual assistance is em* ployed, that the contents of the bladder and rectum be previously evacuated. It rarely happens, after every other method has been used, that the shoulder descends so low in the pelvis by the force of the uterus that it is utterly impossible to introduce the hand, or raise the projecting part of the foetus above the brim of the pelvis ; yet in some unfrequent instances when this has been the case, the powers of the uterus, aided by the abdominal muscles, have accom- plished the delivery by a spontaneous evolution. A case of this description occurred in my own practice near 30 years ago. The woman was at the fall period of her first utero gestation. I was called to her on the Friday morning, after a mid- wife had been in attendance all that day, and part of the preceding night. On examination I found the arm of the foetus presenting, and the hand pushed out at the os externum, and very much swollen ; the waters were evacuated early on the day before, the pains were strong and fre- quent, and the orificium uteri was considerably distended. I made an attempt to introduce my hand, but the uterine efforts wholly resisted my endeavours; about twelve o'clock the same evening, 1 gave her forty drops of Tinct Opij, but without pro- ducing any abatement of the labour pains; the399 same quantity was administered in the space of two hours after the first dose, but with no better effect. After some space of time 1 I'enewed the attempt to introduce my hand, but without suc- cess, for the pains returned on every endeavour with redoubled violence ; and the action of the uterus was such as to forbid any further attempts to turn the foetus. The shoulder of the child now became forcibly pressed upon the peri- neum ; the woman continued in this extreme misery till the following evening, when the power of the uterus was so great, that I dreaded a rup- ture of that organ would every moment take place. Being once more induced to ascertain the state of the case, I was agreeably surprised to find the presenting arm of the fcetus retracting, and the breech soon supplied the place of the shoulder, and was expelled in a few minutes, by the efforts of nature; after which the arms w^ere brought down, and the head and shoulders ex- tracted, and the placenta immediately followed. The child was dead, and notwithstanding the woman's severe and long suffering, she had a speedy recovery. Though the spontaneous evolution of the foetus* * In the 38th chapter of the hook of Genesis, there is a curious account of (Tamar) bringing forth hving twins; the first which pre- sented, we are told by the midwife, had the arm so far protruded.400 under certain parturient conditions, which are generally concealed from us, will sometimes take place ; and granting to tlie inherent efforts of the uterus its fall power, there is reason to believe, that were every case of the presentation of the shoulder left entirely to the efforts of nature many lives would be thereby sacrificed, which by a timely and well-regulated interference, might be preserved. It is, I presume; only a very rare occurrence when the evolution terminates the deli- very, and that almost always with destruction to the child ; and it is not a little surprising, that the discovery of such a phenomenon should have es- caped the notice of all authors anterior to the time of Schoeriheider^ and the late Dr. Denman, more especially during that period when the art that a scarlet thread was tied upon the hand, and was the latter of the two children which came forth. How this reversion of the fcetus in utero was effected, I will not attempt to explain ; but it appears the midwife was a little surprised at the occur- rence, for she exclaimed, " How hast thou broken, forth ! this breach be upon thee !" which expression is evidently a convincing proof that such incident was uncommon in her practice : and that she was hot in the habit of turning the foetus and delivering by the feet. Docs not the successful event of Titmar's case abundantly prove what it is my wish to establish in the following pages, namely, that the indiscriminate practice of turning in presentation of the hand, too generally adopted by practitioners of the present day, is improper? >u». * Acta Havn. Tom. 2, Art. 23.401 of turning- and delivering' by tlie feet was un- practised ? Such occurrences of the spontaneous conver- sion of the foDtus in utero, during- parturition, are so rare, and their causes so obscure to the ac- coucheur, that I shall content myself with making but few remarks on the subject; more particularly as it is incontrovertibly proved, that an implicit confidence in the powers of nature, in such circum- stances, would be attended with danger, and can never be relied on as a general rule of practice. See the works of Dr. Douglas and Kelly on the subject. It appears from the records of many authors in former times, and it is likewise still the practice of some modern accoucheurs, incases where the shoulder and body of the foetus are permanently and transversely fixed in the pelvis, to sever the head from the trunk with sharp hooks or instru- ments, some of which resemble a Crotchet, con- structed with a cutting edge on the concave part, and similar to the one described by Celsus.^' How far this random and tragical method of operating with hooks, and beheading the foetus in * " Si vero transversus est, netjue diiigi potuir, uncus alse iiijicieiuliis paulatiinqvie attrahendus est. Snh quo fore cervix, rcpticatur retroque caput ad reiiquum corpus spcctat. Rtjmedio est cervix provisa ut separatim utraque pars auferatur. Iil unco 3e402 uterO; may be warrantable, I cannot absolutely determine, having never liad occasion to put them in practice ; but tliere is reason to believe, from a careful perusal of the dreadful cases recorded, and the indiscriniinate use and variety of instru- ments invented for the purpose, that this mode of dismembering children in the womb, has been carried far beyond what appears to me either justifiable or necessary. For in cases where such an instrument as the Crotchet can be used with safety to the mother, so high in the pelvis or uterus as to effect a sepa- ration of the head from the body of the foetus, (the pelvis obviously well-formed) it is manifest that the hand of the accoucheur might with equal facility be conducted into the uterus, and the child turned by bringing down the feet. Or if this expedient fail, it may then be requisite to fix a noose over one or both ankles, and pulling at the ligature in a wriggling or recij)rocal direction with one hand, whilst raising the shoulder and body of the child towards the fundus uteri with the other, the process of turning may be accom- sit qui, priori similis, in interiori tantum parte pertolam aciem exacuitur. Tumide agendum est, iit ante caput, deinde reliqua pars auferatur : quia fere majore parte exfracta caput in vacuam vulvam prolabitur extraliique sine surarao periculo non potest. Celsus, Lib. 7, Chap. 29." For a variety of such murderous in- struments, see the works of Scultetus, Parey, and Aitlieu.403 plisihed, and tlie life of the child in many in- stances preserved. In these adverse presentations, if proper means have been used to abate the impetuous action of the uterus, and its bi'ifice be fully dilated, by act- ing with due perseverance in the manner above- mentioned, the situation of the foetus will be reversed, and if the pelvis be not much distorted, delivery may be obtained without having recourse to any destructive instrument for the purpose of severing- the foetus in piece-meal. If, on the other hand, the apertures of the pel- vis be so much contracted, that the head of a mature child cannot pass by the efforts of nature, and the shoulders be wedged in the superior open- ing, or in other words, when it appears manifest to the operator that the conjugate diameter in any part of the brim does not exceed three inches, then every attempt to turn the foetus and extract it alive will be fruitless. In this perilous state the child will, in' all probability, have perished from the concomitant circumstances, and t'6 rescue' tlie mother from impending danger, the accoucheur may with pro- priety complete the delivery with such instruments as appear best adapted to the state of the case and safety of the woman. It will not, perhaps, be thought uninteresting in this place, to furnish the reader with a list of f< 404 such instrumenls as have been invented at different periods by obstetrical writers, for the pur[)ose of perforating and extracting the foetus in cases of difficulty. Extracting Instruments. Name of the Instrunieuts. GRYPHON'S TALON FORMA UNCINI, SIMPLEX AND COMPLEX SPECULUM MATRIX, WITH HOOKS, &c. CRANIUM HOOK, &c. FORCEPS LONGA ET TERSA CROTCHET, OR STRAIGHT & BLUNT HOOK HAMULA OR CROTCHET TIRE TETE, OR HEAD DRAWER. FILLET PURSE EXTRACTOR TOOTHED FORCEPS EXTRACTOR, OR PINCHERS SeiSSARS AND SCREWED FORCEPS, LITHOTOMY FORCEPS FLEXIBLE CROTCHET FLEXIBLE BLUNT HOOK EXTRACTING HOOK NARROW-FANGED, OR RE- ELECTED FORCEPS SWIVEL CROTCHET, OR EX- TRACTOR I Name of the Iiivenlors, AVICENNA ALBUCASIS ANDREAS A CRUCE SCULTETUS AMBROSE PAREY MAYNARD MAURICEAU AMAND PLENCK LEVRET PALFYN RAWLINS JOHNSON405 Name of the Instruments. LEVER, OR VECTIS EXTRACTOR LEVER, THE COMMON ONE LIVING, OR FLEXIBLE LEVER | ^i^kEN LIVING FLEXIBLE FORCEPS S Name of the Inventors. LOWDER DEASE ROONHUYSON Perforating and Exti'acting Instruments. Name of the Instruments. ALMISDACH MISDACH FORFEX FORMA SPATUMILIS GRYPHII OR EXTRACTOR EXTRACTING TEREBRA, AND CONCEALED CRANINUM PIERCER SCISSAR FORCEPS TEREBRA OCCULTA CURVED PERFORATOR PERFORATOR AND DIRECTOR PERFORATOR & HOOKED KNIFE CONCEALED PERFORATOR RING SCALPEL SCISSARS OR STRAIGHT PER- ^ FORATOR S FLEXIBLE PERFORATOR CURVED CROTCHET FORCEPS' ELASTIC EXTRACTOR FORCEPS WITH THREE BLADES FLEXIBLE PERFORATOR AND ) CROTCHET I Name of the Inventors. ALBUCASIS PAREY BURTON OULD DENMAN JOHNSON MAURICEAU LA MOTTE SIMPSON SMELLIE ( SCHLICTINGIUS ^ & ROONHUYSON LEAK AITKEN }406 I come now to treat more particularly on that species of preternatural presentation, ^vhere one or both of the superior extremities present with the head, resting on the brim of the pelvife, or advanced low in ks-Kiavity. •f"^ > rr:;jio «j i If we consult the language and direidti6fiV$ of authors for a guide on the subject, we shall be led to regard the presentation of the hand along with the head of the foetus, as one of the most disastrous occurrences in midwifery. Some authors; amongst whom was Dr. Hunter, entertained an idea that this particular kind of presentation never occurred except when caused by the imprudent interference of the accoucheur ; but this opinion is not correct, for I have found it otherwise in several instances where there had been no manual interposition. Yet I do not deny, that such an incident may be occasionally referred to some officious violation of the efforts of nature on the approach of labour. ''^'^ ^ In presentations of one or both of the superior extremities, when in conjunction with the head of the foetuf^,*'it was the custom of the early as well as most of the modern practitioners to attempt either 't5' push them back and adjust the head in the Superior aperture of the pelvis, or reverse thepositJoii bf the foetus and effect delivery by the feet. '""^ u! k. /i... On this subject Dr. Merryman says;' " There407 are no presentations more dangerous, or more difficult to manage, than those of the superior ex- tremities ; for whether the part presenting be the ham], the elbow, the shoulder, or both the hands, it is clearly impossible that & full grown foetus should pass through the pelvis, unless the position be altered." I am aware that similar sentiments to those above quoted from Dr. Merrinians va4 luable work on midwifery have been embraced and acted upon by other modern authors, yet with due deference to their opinions, I venture to state, that experience and facts have convinced me of the impropriety of implicitly complying with their respective modes of practice in these cases. I am fully satisfied, that in a well- formed pelvis, whether one or both of the su- perior extremities present along with the head, the powers of nature are competent to dis- burden the uterus of its contents with safety both to mother and child, in this species of mal- position of the foetus, without manual interference. The cruel practice of indiscriminately turning in these cases, as exercised by almost every practi- tioner of the present day, is a procedure truly reprehensible, and must be founded in error, nor can it be the result of rational practical reflection. For I have satisfactorily proved the reverse in variety of instances, by pursuing a contrary plan and relying on the efforts of nature, or retaiaino-408 the liand or hands wlieii presenting at the brim of the pelvis by means of a plug, till the head of the foetus had pressed that aperture. Those who are acquainted with the dimensions of a well formed pejvis, and its relative apertures of adaptation to the head of the foehis, must, be aware that the pelvic cavity, if divested of its soft parts, would generally exceed the diameter of the fcetal cranium and integuments by at least a quar- ter of an inch, which provision of nature mani- festly renders the trifling impediments caused by the transmission of the hand in union with the head of little moment. For if the capacity of the pelvis did not invariably exceed the bulk of the head during its progressive evolution at birth, the labour would be inevitably tedious. These re- spective adaptations of structure and capacity connected with the winding irregularity of the cavity, appear intended as subservient to the up- right position of the human body, and mate- rially obviate many casualties which would unavoidably await the the gravid female, were the pelvic apertures augmented much beyond their natural standard. Among the evils which the unnatural extent of the capacity and dimensions of the pelvis would create, are the premature descent of the fcEtus in utero, ?l prolapsus of the unimpregnated uterus, relenlion of urine, and laceration of- the409 pen7i€um during a rapid labour. This last un- pleasant accident, I ani led to believe, is some- times incurred by the officious application of counter-pressureiindul5^ exerted by the accoucheur to the framum laUdrnm, against the part where the greatest presisurte is made by the head of the foetus, as it diverges under the arch of the pubis. In a AVell formed pislvis the arch of the female pubis is somewhat larger than that of the male, designed, no doubt, for an easier passage of the head of the child during parturition. But in a de- formed pelvis, the ossa ischia generally approx^ imate each other in a more acute angle, and expose the perineum to'laceration by not allow- ing the vertex to occupy the arch of the pubis at birth. To prevent which, the accoucheur should apply pressure with the points of his fingers against the vertex of the fcetal head, as it emerges under the arch of the pubis during every labour-pain, and thus oppose its advancement for a given time, till the soft parts havfe' become re- laxed and ■ distended sufficiently for' the' labour ■ 'to terminate with safety. '.iJJi »<^ii ji/Jai^ By this mode of pioceeding^ I liaVieHl^Vfer; dur- ing upwards of thirty years, met with an instance of a rupture of the perineum in my oWn practice, but have seen several instances, when, on enquiry jpf the attending practitioner, 1 have been invaria- 3 F410 1)1 y told that great care had been taken to support the perineum. Here the mischief often arises. \n cases where the event of a former labour at fiill time has proved the pelvis to be well-formed, and where one or both hands of the foetus pre- sented along with the head, nature will dispense with the interference of art, without exposing either the mother or child to unnecessary torture or danger; for the force unavoidably employed in turning will not unfrequently injure the spinal marrow of the foetus, produce luxation of the neck, fracture of the arms, strangulation or suf- focation will be the fatal consequence, and the mother sometimes share the same fate from sub- sequent evils. It occasionally happens that we are not con- sulted early enough to correct the protrusion of one or both of the superior extremities into the ■vagina, or out at the os externum, and before the head is engaged in the pelvis. As this advanced position of the foetus leaves no prospect of repo- sition by means of art, it is consoling to know, that even under these adverse presentations, the efforts of nature alone will effectuate delivery, though both arms protrude along with the head. Hence it is likewise a very rare occurrence, that the presentation of the hand of the foetus, when in conjunction either with the head, feet, or\ 411 breech, tends nialerially to retard delivery, if skit- fiilly managed, unless there exist a manifest distor- tion of the apertures of the pelvis. The mode of delivery recommended by authors in this state of mal-position appears involved in some degree of ambiguity; for little variation of practice has been adopted, whether one or both hands present along with the head at the brim of the pelvis ; or descend low in the vagina. In either case, however dissimilar the presentation be, the practice of turning is invariably pursued ; nevertheless 1 conceive there requires much dis- crimination as well as diversity of management according to the difl'erent positions and stages of advancement, in which the foetnti is found under these circumstances. When called to a labour of this kind, it is always proper to deliberate on the nature of the case, and consider how far the eflbrts of nature may, or may not be able to complete delivery ; and the deduction formed by such proceeding, will enable the accoucheur to decide on the best possible means to be adopted. The term preternatural as employed by authors on midwifery, appears to me only relative; and it is to be feared that writers have made unnecessary and fanciful distinctions in the classification of labours, which have induced practitioners to re- sort to the art of turning in some cases whei'e nature required no such interposition, and this412 l-emark is peculiarly applicable to the present en-' quiry. The analogy which exists between the natural and preteratural presentations in quadrupeds and bipeds may tend to illustrate this observation; the most frequent presentation in the former species of animals is with the two fore feet preceding or accompanying the head. Now taking into con- sideration the similarity of anatomical structure in the conformation of the bones of the brute and human pelvis, there is reason to believe that this parturient process is effected with equal fa- cility in each species* I know from observation that delivery will take place in quadrupeds with- out manual assistance, whether or not the fore^ feet of the young advance along with the head, for their being absent renders this position to be classed by authors (on animal parturition,) among preternatural presentations. If the accoucheur has the whole management of a case from the precise time of the discharge of the liquor amnii, and the hand and head of the foetus are found by a common examination to pre- sent together, the pelvis being well-formed and the uterus dilated, the recession of the hand may be frequently accomplished by raising it up dur- ing the absence of uterine action, and supporting it at the brim of the pelvis on the extremity of the fore and middle fingers, conducting it posteriorly413 triVvards the face of tlie foetus, and restraining it in this position till the pains push the head for- wards, and the hand recedes out of the way. If this attempt prove ineffectual, the accoucheur may then introduce a piece of sponge, or other soft substance along the side of the pelvis during the interval of a pain, and wedge or support the presenting hand, or hands above the superior strait till the head has cleared the inlet of the pelvis. It may be alleged, that the introduction and retention of such substance into the cavity of the pelvis during labour, may obstruct the exit of the child or otherwise do mischief; but this ob- jection can have little weight, for the substance introduced will either be transmitted along with the head, or otherwise be retained above the brim of the pelvis, and in either case will prove no obstacle to delivery. It will be evident that I here allude only to those cases where one or both hands present, and not where the fore-arm or arms are primarily advanced to the os externum, and the head engaged in the cavity of the pelvis. I have in several cases completely succeeded^ by replacing the hand as above directed, and like- wise in instances of the descent of Ihe funis um- bilicalis, by pushing it up out of the way of com- pression, and introducing a portion of cotton wool, or soft sponge, in such a manner as to414 wholly plug up ilie passage on that side -of tlie head where the funis protruded. The same mode of proceeding may be adopted with advantage when the breech, or any otiier part of the fcEtus presents'with the funis, provided the pulsation be perceptible in the cord. When the head of the fcctns has descended so far in the pelvis as to become permanently wedged in that tube, and either the funis or one or both arms protrude at the vulva, then every attempt to turn the child should be abandoned, and the fore-mentioned^mode of treatment, by the use of the opiates, &c. be unremittingly adopted; and eventually the uterus will unfold its orifice, and by its impelling powers, if the pelvis offer no obstruction, the presenting parts will sometimes so accommodate themselves to the figure of the different apertures of the pelvis whilst passing through it, that delivery] will take place without the use of instruments with safety. If these measures fail, then the use of the For- ceps or Lever may be admissible, and delivery will, even under these afflicting circumstances, be sometimes crowned with success; for the pre- sence of one or both arms does not preclude the use of these instruments when the extremities have been previously pushed from their situation to- wards the ischiatic notches; for on the other415 hand, by either attempting* to turn the foetus or extract it by pullinoj at the arms would be useless, as there may be reason to suppose a deficiency of space in the pelvis, and if the child be dead, then, as a last expedient, the head may be open- ed, the brain evacuated, and delivery be termi- nated with the Crotchet. When one arm only presents, and the head advances in a proper direction, there appears no necessity of either attempting to reduce that ex- tremity or reversing the foetus, for this appen- dage presents only a trivial encroachment on the dimensions of a well-formed pelvis ; and if its diameters are not much below the natural standard and the head ceases to advance though the pains are strong, the Lever may be requisite, and should be applied to the opposite side on which the arm rests. But when both superior extremities advance in progression with the head, and occupy the upper entrance of the pelvis, the case wears a more formidable aspect, and this in proportion to the capacity of the pelvis and action of the uterus, and rigidity of its cervix. Nevertheless if these eventual circumstances, when taken collectively, have an auspicious appearance, we are justified in resigning the event of the case to Nature, as her efforts will be generally efficient, without hav- ing recourse to manual assistance.41 (J As a proof of what I am advancing-, I have attended three cases of this description, when both arms presented with the head of the fcetus, and the delivery was terminated without injury either to mother or child, in each instance, by tlie efforts of nature alone. Another case of the same kind I was witness to, where the practitioner with great difficulty finished the delivery by turning; the child was dead, and the mother had a very narrow escape in consequence. It is, I am persuaded from long experience, best to have recourse to turning as seldom as possible, for it is only an uncertain ex- pedient on the score of the child, even under the most favourable circumstances. The difficulty and danger of attempting to re- duce the hand or arm of the foetus, will be pro- portionate to the action of the uterus; and the chief obstacle which generally opposes the intro- duction of the operator's hand is the spasmodic action of its cervix, and not the presenting ex- tremity of the foetus, as is too generally supposed. Either the reduction of the superior extremities, when advanced with the head into the cavity of the pelvis, or the act of turning the foetus, is fre- quently impracticable, and may often prove dan- gerous both to the mother and child when much force is used, if the uterus present much resist- ance. Yet the practice of reversing the fuetus in417 this sjDecies of mal-positiou, is not necessary, noi- ls the reduction of either of the superior extremi- ties absolutely requisite, when the pelvis is known to be well-forined, except by means of plugging, as before directed, under certain peculiar condi- tions, and previously to the head being fixed in the superior aperture. Under these circumstances it will be w^ll to bear in mind the extent of the powers of nature; yet it may not be on every occasion the most prudent step to rely wholly on her efforts. For if when called to a woman in labour of her first child, with one or both hands presenting and the head halting on the brim of the pelvis, the liquor amnii evacuated and the os uteri amply dilated, I should not hesitate to intro- duce the hand, and turn the foetus by bringing down the feet. Still I am fully aware that cases will occasionally occur, where the accoucheur may with propriety exercise a choice either of leaving the event wholly to nature, or having re- course to art; for it is extremely difficult to adapt rules of practice to every variety of presentation, and the accoucheur will on many occasions, be under the necessity of adopting measures for which writers on midwifery have not furnished him with precepts. FINIS. T. HOCERSON, PRINTER, BLACKBURN.EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. Fig, ]. An improved sound of the common length and curvature for can adult, with all that portion of the instrument from the anterior part of the bulb to the handle, equally reduced to about one half the usual thickness or diameter; which diminished construction greatly facili- tates its motion in passing down the canal of the urethra, as well as when its bulb is in the cavity of the bladder exploring the contents of that viscus. A. The apex or bulb of the sound of the usual proportionate size. B. The handle of the sound. Fig. % A curved beaked lithotomy knife or bis- toury, constructed with an elevated cutting edge on its concave side, which gives it the compound advantage of being used either as a bistoury or gorget ad libitum. Between C and D, is the cutting part of the in- strument. When used as a bistoury its beak must be conducted along the grooved' staff into the bladder, with the concave side directed to- wards the pubis of the patient; and when completely in the bladder, the surgeon with- draws the staff; and then turning the cutting edge of the bistoury a little towards the left ischium of the patient, the division of the pros- tate gland and neck of the bladder mav beEXPLANATION OF PLATE 1. easily effected by withdrawing the bistoury downwards and outwards. "When the instrument is intended to be used as a gorget, it must be conducted into the bladder along the grooved staff with its convex side towards the pubis of the patient, and by means of the elevated cutting edge extending above the groove of the staff, the bistoury will make its way by a gentle effort into the bladder with much facilit>^ the surgeon then with the han- dle of the fcErafe rather inclined towards the right groin of the patient, keeps it steady in the bladder with the left hand, whilst with the right he turns the edge of the bistoury a lit- tle towards the left ischium of the patient, and withdraws the instrument downwards and out- wards in a corresponding direction with its introduction, and thus completes the division of the prostate and bladder to an extent pro- portioned to the age of the patient and sup- posed size of the stone. Fig. 3. Represents the front view of a scoop (uncus) of the full size, for the purpose of extracting stones from the bladder of young persons; its superiority over the forceps con- sists chiefly in taking up less room, and seiz- ing the stone with greater facility. Fig. 4. Represents a side view of the same instru- ment.Figures \EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. Fig. 1. A view of a hernia vesicse urinaria; com- plicated with procidentia uteri and inverted vagina, taken from the living subject subse- quent to the operation. A. The OS uteri. B. The orifice of the meatus urinarius. C. The rug« of the vagina. D. The cicatrix, shewing the part whence the, stones were extracted in the ope- ration. Fig. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Y, 8, 9 and 10, represent mne stones of a triangular pyramidal form, with equilateral sides, the perpendicular height and the base of each stone corresponds in mea- sure nearly to three quarters of an inch. Fig. 11. is a stone about the same size, and not very dissimilar in shape. The dimensions of the whole prolapsed tumor prior to the operation, measured nine inches Ion- gitudinally from the meatus urinarius to the os uteri, and fourteen in circumference. The tumor measured very lately six inches and a half longitudinally, and fifteen in circumferenceEXPLANATION OF PLATE III. 1. A view of a distorted pelvis. 2. Represents the natural size of the brim of the same pelvis. From A. to A. measures one inch and one eighth. From B. to B. measures one inch and two eighths.i {EXPLANATION OF FLATE IV. Fig. 1. Represents the tumor upon the nose prior 'to the operation. Fig. 2. Represents the shape of the nose subse- quent to the operation. 1G. W001>PAI,t, PRINTER, ANCEL COUUT, SKINNEU STREET, LONDON.