42 DEVELOPMENT Ob' THE FOETAL MEMBRANES. DEVELOPMENT OF THE FOETAL MEMBRANES; ATTACHMENT OF OVUM TO UTERUS. Having thus sketched out the manner in which the principal organs of the body first make their appearance, we may briefly consider the formation of certain structures which have a purely embryonic existence, and are concerned either with the nutrition of the foetus and its attachment to the mucous membrane of the uterus (chorion, allantois, placenta), or serve the purpose of protecting the embryo against mechanical injuries by suspension in a bag of fluid (amnion). Formation of the amnion and chorion.—The amnion, which is only found in reptiles, birds, and mammals (amniota), is a membranous bag occupied by a clear albuminous fluid, and covers the whole of the embryo. It is developed from folds of Fig. 44.—Diagram op a transverse section of a mammalian embryo showing the mode op FORMATION OF THE AMNION. The AMNIOTIC POLDS HAVE NEARLY UNITED IN THE MIDDLE LINE. Epiblast, blue ; mesoblast, red ; hypoblast and Dotochord, black. somatopleure, which are reflected from the head and tail ends and lateral boundaries of the embryo at an early stage.1 With the sinking of the embryo into the blasto- dermic vesicle or yolk, these folds grow up over the back (fig. 44) until they meet and coalesce with one another along the middle line, in such a manner as to form two distinct membranes, one of which, the inner, is the amnion (true amnion), while the outer membrane (termed the false amnion) becomes applied to the greatly thinned remnant of the zona pellucida, and eventually forms a complete external covering to the ovum and its contents. This external covering of the ovum has been long known as the chorion—a name which has, however, been applied by some embry- ologists to other structures.3 It is fixed to the uterus by villi, which are 1 The head fold is preceded at a yet earlier stage by the bilaminar pro-amnion, the formation of which has been already alluded to (p. 35). 2 The term “chorion” has been applied to various structures by embryologists. Originally used to denote the external covering of the developing ovum, it was employed successively for the zona pellucida (“ primitive chorion ”), the epithelial enclosing membrane of the blastodermic vesicle, and finally for the external amniotic fold or false amnion, when this becomes formed. Lately it has been used to express the external albuminous envelope of the undeveloped ovum, so that it is probable that much confusion may arise unless the meaning of the term be in each case clearly defined. It '