168 FORMATION OF THE AUDITORY OSSICLES. JP- f .obvious interpretation ot these appearances would seem to be that both the malleus and incus are developed from the cartilaginous bar of the first or mandibular arch us view is not, however universally held. For, as the several illustrations show, the second bar ls als0 connected to the developing incus, through which it is joined to the periotic capsule. Hence it has been inferred by some that the incus belongs to the hyoid bar, and not fA‘ f-Tr)' o0fchers .havc lookcd uPon it as representing a hyomandibular caitilage, like that which m Sauropsida forms a common suspensory apparatus for both mandibular and hyoidean apparatus (Huxley). This hyomandibula itself, however, may repre- hig. 200.—Condition op Meckel’s car- tilage AND THE HYOID BAR IN THE HUMAN F(ETUS OF ABOUT 18 WEEKS. (Kolliker.) B, is an enlarged sketch by Allen Thomson, showing the relationship of the several parts better than in A. z, zygomatic arch ; via, mastoid pro- cess ; mi, portions of the lower jaw left in situ, the rest having been cut away ; M, Meckel’s cartilage of the right side, continued at s, the symphysis, into that of the left side M', of which only a small part is shown; T, tympanic ring ; m, malleus ; i, incus; s, stapes ; sta, stape- dius ; st, styloid process; p, li, rj, stylo- pharyngeus, stylohyoid, and styloglossus muscles; stl, stylohyoid ligament attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, Ay; tli, thyroid cartilage. sent an upward prolongation of Meckel’s cartilage, and would then belong to the 1st visceral arch (Peters). Lastly, yet another solu- tion of the question has been offered, viz., that both incus and malleus are hyomandibular (Albrecht, G-adow). The last mentioned opinion is based mainly upon considerations of com- parative anatomy, which can hardly be left out of account in dealing with the morphology of these structures. In lower Vertebrata the suspensory apparatus of the lower jaw comprises besides the hyomandibula, common to it and to the hyoid apparatus, a large bone, known as the quadrate, by means of which, either directly or with the intercalation of an os arti- culare, the lower jaw is united with the basis cranii and periotic capsule. Reichert looked upon the incus as the homologue of the quadrate, and the malleus as that of the os articulare ; and the same view was taken by Gegenbaur. Huxley, on the other hand, came to the conclusion that the homologue of the quadrate bone of reptiles and birds is to be found in the malleus, and that the incus represents a portion of the hyomandibular bar, which, as above stated, is common to both first and second arches. Various other observers have concluded that the quadrate of lower vertebrates is represented in mammals by the zygomatic process of the squamosal. Gadow, however, looks upon it as represented by the tympanic ring of mammals. The stapes has been variously described as representing : 1, a part of the hyoid arch (Reichert); 2, a part of the periotic capsule which has become detached (Parker); 3, in part or wholly, the hyomandibula of lower vertebrates (Gegenbaur, Huxley, Albrecht. Gadow); 4, hyomandibula and detached periotic cartilage conjoined (Gradenigo); 5, as an independent circular deposit of cartilage around the stapedial artery1 (Salensky, Fraser). It is at any rate closely connected with the hyoid bar, which forms from above down the tympauo-hyal and 1 This artery disappears in man, but is persistent in many mammals.