DEVELOPMENT OF the B11AIN. G2 walls of the vesicles. Tims the corpora striata are formed in the floor of the hemi- sphere vesicles, whilst the principal mass of each hemisphere is formed from the rool and sides (mantle) of those vesicles, and the olfactory lobes are hollow out- growths from them. The cavities of the hemi- sphere-vesicles become the lateral ventricles, and the cavity of the part of the fore-brain (or first secondary vesicle) from which they spring, forms the anterior extremity of the third ventricle. The optic thalamus is formed by a thickening of the lateral wall of the second vesicle, the cavity of which comes to be the main part of the third ventricle ; the corpora quadrigemina m are thickenings in the roof, and the crura cerebri thickenings of the sides and floor of the third vesicle, which becomes the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the cerebellum and pons are respectively thick- enings of the roof and floor and the crura cere- belli of the sides of the fourth vesicle (anterior part of hind-brain), the cavity of which becomes the anterior (superior) part of the fourth ven- tricle ; and finally, the medulla oblongata is developed as a thickening of the wall of the fifth vesicle, the cavity of which expands from the central canal of the spinal cord to form the calamus scriptorius of the fourth ventricle. On the other hand, certain parts of the walls of the vesicles become thin and greatly expanded, and even eventually project into the cavities as folds of epithelium Fig. 68.— Fore-fart oh1 the embryo shown in fig. 38, VIEWED FROM THE DORSAL SIDE. (From Kolliker. )\ F, fore-brain ; e, ocular vesicles; M, mid-brain ; //, hind- brain ; h, part of the heart seen bulging to the right side ; Vom, omphalo-mesenteric or vitelline veins entering the heart posteriorly ; Mr, medullary canal, spinal part ; p, proto-vertebral somites. Fig. 69. — Outline of a longitudinal SECTION THROUGH THE BRAIN OF A chick of ten days (after Mibalkovics). li, cerebral hemisphere ; olf, olfactory lobe and nerve ; st, corpus striatum ; Iv, lateral ventricle : ac, anterior commissure; It, lamina terminalis; ope, optic commissure; pit, pitui- tary gland; inf, infundibulum ; cat, internal carotid artery ; v3, third ventricle ; ch3, cho- roid plexus of third ventricle ; pin, pineal gland ; by, corpora bigemina ; amv, anterior medullary velum ; below which two last references are the aqueduct of Sylvius and crura cerebri; cbl, cerebellum; v4, fourth ventricle ; ha, basilar artery : ps, pons Varolii ; ch4, choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle ; obi, medulla oblongata ; r, roof of fourth ventricle. covering ramified vascular expansions of pia mater (choroid plexuses). These vascular expansions occur along the lower border of the mesial surface of each hemisphere-vesicle (choroid plexuses of lateral ventricles); along the roof of the second vesicle (choroid plexus of third ventricle), and in the roof of the fifth vesicle (choroid plexus of fourth ventricle).