156 COURSE OF THE BLOOD IN THE FlETOS. The ductus arteriosus establishes a communication between the main pulmonary artery and the aorta, by which the blood from the right ventricle is carried mainly into the dorsal aorta. ihe two large hypogastric or umbilical arteries, prolonged from the iliac arteries, passing out of the body of the foetus, proceed along the umbilical cord, to be distributed in the foetal portion of the placenta. From the placenta the blood is returned by the umbilical vein, which, after entering the abdomen, communi- cates by one branch with the portal vein, and is continued by another, named ductus venosus, into one of the hepatic veins, through which it joins the main stem of the vena cava inferior. Course of the blood in the foetus.—The right auricle of the foetal heart receives blood from the two vena cavae and the coronary sinus. The blood brought by the superior cava is simply the venous blood returned from the head and upper half of the body ; whilst the inferior cava, which is considerably larger than the superior, conveys not only the blood from the lower half of the body, but also that which is returned from the placenta and the liver. This latter stream of blood reaches the vena cava inferior, partly by a direct passage—the ductus venosus—and partly by the hepatic veins, which bring to the vena cava inferior all the blood circulating through the liver, whether derived from the supply of placental blood entering that organ by the umbilical vein, or proceeding from the vena ports; or hepatic artery. The blood of the superior vena cava is believed to pass through the right auricle into the right ventricle, whence it is propelled into the trunk of the pulmonary arteiy. A small part is distributed through the branches of that vessel to the lungs, and returns by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle ; but, as these vessels remain small up to the time of birth, by far the larger part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the descending aorta, and is thence distributed in part to the lower half of the body and the viscera, and in part along the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From these several organs it is returned by the vena cava inferior, the vena portae, and the umbilical vein ; and, as already noticed, reaches the right auricle through the trunk of the inferior cava. Of the blood entering the heart by the inferior vena cava, it is supposed that only a small part is mingled with that of the superior cava, so as to pass into the right ventricle ; by far the larger portion is thought to be directed by the Eustachian valve through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, and thence, together with the small quantity of blood returned from the lungs by the pulmonary veins, to pass into the left ventricle, whence it is sent into the arch of the aorta, to be distributed almost entirely to the head and upper limbs. Sabatier was the first to call attention particularly to the action of the Eusta- chian valve in separating the currents of blood entering the right auricle by the superior and inferior venae cavae. This separation, as well as that occurring between the currents passing through the aortic arch and the ductus arteriosus into the descending aorta, was illustrated experimentally by John Reid. A striking confirmation of the extent to which the last mentioned division of the two currents of the foetal blood may take place, without disturbance of the circulation up to the time of birth, is afforded by the examples of malformation in which a complete ob- literation has existed in the aortic trunk immediately before the place of the union of the ductus arteriosus with the posterior part of the aortic arch. In earlier stages of development than those above described, it is certain that there is little or no separation of the two kinds of blood, for both the umbilical veins from the placenta and the veins from the yolk sac and body generally, pour their blood together into the sinus venosus, and the mixed blood is then forced through a single somewhat narrowed orifice (porta vcstibuli of Ilis) into the auricle.