DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. 136 muscular wall of the heart. It encloses a second tube composed of flattened epithelium cells ; this so-called endothelial tube (His) becomes the lining epithelium of the endocardium. A Fig. 161.—A, Transverse section through the head op an embryo rabbit of eight days and FOURTEEN HOURS, WITH A PART OF THE PERIPHERAL BLASTODERM. «. (Kolliker.) lih, rudiments of the heart; sr, pharyngeal groove, with notochordal thickening of hypoblast. B.—Part of the same more highly magnified. 1f2. (Kolliker.) Lettering as in fig. 160. In addition :—ahh, fold of splanchnopleure to form wall of heart; ihli, endothelial tube of heart. There is some doubt as to the source of this endothelial tube of the heart. In the preceding edition of this work it was stated that it is “ derived from the deeper part of the visceral meso- blast ; ” this statement being apparently founded upon the statements and figures given by Kolliker. His ascribes it, like the endothelium of the blood-vessels, to an ingrowth from the vascular area. The appearance of the section shown in fig. 161 B, seems to lend colour to the belief that the invagination which has taken place to form the heart is not the splanchnic mesobiast only, but has included also the hypoblastic layer of the splanchnopleure ; the notch which is seen in the hypoblast near sw, appearing to indicate an interrupted connection with the endocardial tube. Should future investigations show that this is actually the mode of formation of the tube, the mammalian heart would be developed in essentially the same manner as has been shown by Riickert to occur in Pristiurus (an Elasmobranch), where this organ, which, as in all vertebrates below mammals, is formed only after the foregut is com- pleted, is developed as a median outgrowth or thickening of the ventral Avail of the foregut. A similar mode of formation has also been noticed in Cyclostomata, Ganoids, and Amphibia. In reptiles and birds the first appearance of the heart is as a bilateral tube, but it becomes visible only after the foregut is formed, and the two tubes lie from the first close together, and from the surface appear as a single median tube. Sections at a somewhat later period (fig. 162) show the two tubes lying in con- tact on the ventral side of the now completed foregut. The septum which divides them at this period has nothing whatever to do with the permanent intra-cardiac septum, but soon becomes completely absorbed, so that by the fusion of the two lateral tubes a single median tube is the result (fig. 163). This median tube remains attached by a suspensory membrane resembling a mesentery (mesocardium poster ins) (mp, fig. 163) to the ventral wall of the pharynx, but the mesocardium anfenus, which also at first results from the fusion, disappears, except at the lower end, and otherwise the tube becomes free, except where the vitelline veins pass to it from the yolk sac, a lateral attachment to the body wall being here subsequently formed on each side (mesocardium laterale of Kolliker). After it is thus formed, the heart is for a time median in position and symmetrical (fig. 164, A), but already in the