DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. 85 place where the lens is becoming involuted, but also below, or ventral, to that place, so that a section exactly through the middle of the optic cup at right angles to the axis of this part of the head, shows a gap in the boundary of the cup through which the mesoblast is passing into the space between the lens and the invaginated optic vesicle (fig. 98, v). This gap or cleft soon becomes closed, but the suture or line of closure long remains apparent from the fact that when pigment begins to be de- posited in the eye, this so-called choroidal fissure remains for some time unpigmented (until the sixth week in man). The ventral invagination is in mammals continued for a considerable distance into the stalk of the optic vesicle (fig. 95), and the simultaneous inclosure of mesoblastic tissue leads to the introduction of the central blood-vessels of the retina within the optic nerve. In birds no such infolding of the stalk occurs. The lower invagination of the optic cup serves not only to permit of the passage of meso- blast behind the lens for the formation of vitreous humour, but also to establish a direct connection between the nerve-fibres which are formed along the course of the optic stalk (future optic nerve) and the centre of the inner layer of the optic cup (future retina) (0. Hertwig). The malformation termed coloboma iridis is attributed to a persistence of the choroidal cleft, which extends behind the iris along with the retinal pigment or uvea, as far as the margin of the pupil. Q71 Fig. 100.—Horizontal section through the eye OF AN EMBRYO RABBIT OF TWELVE DAYS AND SIX hours. \°. (Kolliker.) o, optic stalk ; h', remains of the cavity of the primary optic vesicle ; p, proximal lamella of the optic cup (pigmentum nigrum) ; r, distal lamella (retina) ; l, lens invagination, widely open at ol; l', papillar elevation in the bottom of the lens vesicle ; m, mesoblast; g, mesoblast of vitreous ; v, a blood-vessel at the anterior border of the optic cup ; e, cutaneous epiblast. Fig. 101.—Eyeball of a human embryo of FOUR WEEKS CUT ACROSS, AND THE ANTERIOR HALF REPRESENTED FROM BEHIND. (Kolliker.) 1U°. pr, the remains of the cavity of the primary optic vesicle ; p, outer layer forming the retinal pigment ; r, the thickened inner pait giving rise to the columnar and other structures of the retina ; v, commencing vitreous humour within the optic cup ; v', the cleft through which a vascular loop, a, projects from below ; l, the lens with a central cavity. 1 lie hollow optic stalks are at first freely in communication with the thaiam- encephalon, or third ventricle. Nerve-fibres grow along their walls, from neuroblasts which develop m the retinal epiblast, and pass towards the nerve-centre (His), and the cavities of the stalks become thereby gradually obliterated, the radially striated epithelial-like arrangement of the wall being, however, long evident. A new con- nection becomes subsequently established between the posterior part of the optic stalks (optic tracts) and tjre mesencephalon, whilst the middle parts become united with one another to form the chiasma.