Ill THE THYMUS. menschlicher Embryonen, iii., p. 101, where reference to the literature of these accessory thyroids may be found). The bilateral diverticula, which, assist in the formation of the thyroid body, spiing from the fourth visceral cleft (Born) (fig. 135, thr). They have at first the appearance of simple saccular glands partially encircling the developing larynx (fig. 134 thr ). In front of this they come into connection with the median rudiment, and eventually blend with it. Like that rudiment, they become entirely separated from the hypo- blastic surface from which they have taken origin, their cavity disappears, and they B A Fi". 134.—Sketches showing the condition op the thyroid and thymus glands in a human EMBRYO OF ABOUT FIVE WEEKS. (His.) A, profile sketch from the left side. B, frontal sketch from behind. t, tongue ; d, ductus thyreoglossus ; ep, epiglottis ; opposite l, larynx ; tr, trachea ; cc, oesophagus; thr, median rudiment of thyroid; thr', lateral rudiment of thyroid ; thm, developing thymus, seen on the left side of B to be connected with a visceral cleft; ao (in B), ascending aorta; ao', descending aorta ; c, carotid. are converted into ramifying and anastomosing cell-cylinders, between which vascular connective tissue becomes developed. The cell-cylinders subsequently become hol- lowed out, and finally are subdivided by growth of the connective tissue into small vesicles, which gradually become larger from accumulation of colloid in their interior. In most Vertebrates, the lateral and median parts of the thyroid remain distinct; the former are the organs known as supra-pericardial bodies in elasmobranchs, and as accessory thyroids in other animals. Only in mammals do they become united into one organ as in man. The thymus is also developed as a growth of the epithelium (hypoblast) of some of the visceral clefts ; in birds from the third and fourth (fig. 135, fhym), in reptiles from the second, third, and fourth, and in lower Vertebrates from several clefts (de Fig. 135.—Diagram showing the visceral clefts from which the THYMUS AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE THYROID ARE DEVELOPED IN the chick, (de Meuron.) 1, 2, 3, 4, indicate the corresponding visceral clefts ; thym, rudiments of thymus ; thr, median rudiment of thyroid ; thr', lateral rudiments of thyroid. Meuron). In mammals the thymus appears as a (bilateral) tubular prolongation backwards of the extremity of the third visceral cleft (Kolliker), receiving, according to de Meuron, an accession from the hypoblast of the fourth cleft, as in birds. The tube, which has a narrow lumen, and comparatively thick epithelial lining, is surrounded by vascular connective tissue, within which numerous lymphoid cells become accumulated, and grows downwards along the side and in front of the trachea, where, in mammals, it generally unites