152 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL VEINS. vascular network, and that on the left side a fresh communication has become esta- blished with the upper venous circle of the vitelline veins. The interruption subse- quently becomes complete on both sides (fig. 183), and on the right side the greater Fig. 383.—Venous trunks of a human embryo of ABOUT THREE-ANP A-I1ALF WEEKS. (His.) v.c.d, v.c.s, superior vena: cavte, right and left; r.j, v.c, primitive jugular and cardinal vein; v.u.cl, v.u.s, umbilical veins, right and left; v.u", v.u", upper detached portions of umbilical veins ; v.v.om, omphalomeseraic or vitelline veins forming the vena port®. The permanent veins are coloured blue. part of the vein becomes atrophied (on both sides the part which originally opened into the sinus reuniens remains evident for a time). The left vein, on the other hand, increases in bulk with the develop- ment of the placental circulation. For a short time the whole of its blood, as well as that of the vitelline vein, passes through the capillaries of the liver. But a branch is soon seen passing from the upper venous circle direct into the right hepatic vein, near its entrance into the sinus. This forms the ductus venoms or vena ascendens, and it now carries most of the blood of the umbilical vein direct to the heart. Subsequently the direct communication of the left hepatic vein with the Fig. 184.—Under surface of the fcetal liver, with its great blood-vessels, at the full PERIOD. a, tlie umbilical vein, lying in tbe umbilical fissure, and turning to the right side, at the trans- verse fissure (o), to join the vena porta (p) ; d, the ductus venosus, continuing straight on to join the vena cava inferior (c); some branches of the umbili- cal vein pass from a into the substance of the liver ; <j, the gall-bladder, cut. sinus becomes obliterated, and a new com- munication becomes established with the ductus venosus ; and, finally, when, with the growth of the lower limbs and of the other abdominal and pelvic organs, the inferior vena cava becomes developed, this also joins the upper end of the ductus venosus. The lower part of the portal vein is formed, as we have seen, by the united vitelline veins. The upper part is formed as a single trunk out of the double venous annulus by atrophy of the right half of the lower ring and the left half of the upper (fig. 183). The spiral turn around the duodenum is thus produced, and thus it is also that the portal vein at first appears more directly connected with the right venae advehentes than with the left. Most of these embryonic veins are at first of relatively large size and have an irregular sinus-like character, which disappears at a later stage of development. At the time of commencement of the placental circulation, two short transverse venous trunks, the ducts of Cuvier, open, as has been above stated, one on each side, into the auricle of the heart. Each is formed by the union of a superior and an inferior vein, named respectively the primitive jugular and the cardinal.