G6 CEREBELLAR VESICLE. the earliest appearance of the nerve roots, the white bundles-not yet medullated how- ever—which are known as the ascending root of the fifth, and the ascending root of the va-us and giossopharyngenl (solitary bundle) begin to make their appearance, both being at first”on the sin face of the medulla, they gradually, however, become covered in by a folding over of the dorsal part of the alar lamina, and thus come later to lie imbedded in the substance of each lateral half of the medulla. This fold is shown in its commencement in fig 73 a and B /. According to His the bundles grow downwards towards the spinal cord from the’ places of entrance of the corresponding nerve roots, emerging from the ganglia, as in the case of the posterior spinal roots ; and after entering the medulla grow gradually along the course of the future so-called ascending roots, so that the latter are at first visible only in sections taken near the places of entrance of the nerve roots into the medulla. The fourth cerebral vesicle: cerebellar vesicle, or epencephalon.—The constriction, which is at first obvious between this and the fifth vesicle, does not long persist, so that the two together form a long boat-shaped cavity which becomes Fig. 74.—Median section through THE BRAIN OF A TWO AND A HALF MONTHS FG3TUS. (His.) Magnified 5 diameters. The mesial surface of the left cerebral hemisphere is seen in the upper and right hand part of the figure ; the large cavity of the third ventricle is bounded above and in front by a thin lamina; below is seen the infundibulum and pituitary body. Filling the upper part of the cavity is the thalamus opticus ; in front and below this is the slit-like foramen of Monro. Behind the thalamus is seen another slit-like opening which leads into the still hollow external geni- culate body, o'/, olfactory lobe; p, pituitary body ; c q , corpora quadrigemina ; cb, cerebellum ; m.o., medulla ob- longata. the fourth ventricle. As in that part of this cavity which has already been described with the fifth vesicle, the roof interiorly becomes greatly thinned and expanded. Superiorly the tube becomes gradually more contracted and the roof thicker, this thickening being the rudiment of the cerebellum and of the valve of Vieussens (fig. 74). In the meanwhile a considerable thickening of the lateral boundaries, which, as in the medulla oblongata, have been thrown outwards by the roof expansion, occurs, and from this the substance of the pons is gradually formed. The dorsal and ventral laminae of the lateral walls are still evident in this part of the embryonic brain. With the former, the sensory fibres of the fifth nerve are immediately connected ; with the latter, the motor fibres of the fifth and also the sixth and seventh nerves. In the human embryo the cerebellum is seen as early as the second month, forming a thin plate arching over the anterior part of this vesicle (fig. 74). From this plate, which enlarges only gradually, is formed the middle lobe ; later the lateral lobes grow out at the sides. The cerebellar surface is at first smooth, but a sub- division into the subordinate lobes occurs in the fifth month, and the folia appear about the sixth. In the seventh month all the parts of the organ, except the amygdalae, are formed. Of the cerebellar peduncles, the inferior appear in the third month, the middle in the fourth, and the superior in the fifth. The transverse fibres of the pons develop pari passu with the lateral lobes, appearing about the fourth month. \ \