81 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. subcallosus of Zuckerkandl) are developed. These parts are separated even in the adult by a sulcus, along which the mesial or internal olfactory root runs. The olfactory nerve fibres arise, according to His, from neuroblasts which become formed within the .thickened epiblast of the olfactory area (see p. 95). This epiblast at a certain period of development resembles the neural epiblast, and whilst some of the cells become spongioblasts, others become pear-shaped, or spindle- shaped, and their processes grow as nerve fibres towards the olfactory lobe. -Not only however, do these fibres emerge from the olfactory epiblast, but some of the neuroblasts themselves also pass out, and these form a ganglion which lies between the olfactory lobe and the olfactory area. Subsequently this ganglion, the cells of which are prolonged at either end into nerve fibre processes, becomes attached to and partially invests the olfactory bulb, with which it ultimately blends, foiming the part whence the olfactory nerve fibres pass to the Schneideiian membrane (layer of olfactory-glomeruli and nerve fibres), whilst bands of fibres on the other hand grow centripetally and become the olfactory roots. These are m fact comparable to the centripetal (so-called “ ascending ”) roots of the trigeminus, glossopharyngeal, and vagus. It is not until the third month that the part of the olfactory lobe which forms the bulb, begins to grow forwards away from the trigonum, and thus to form the olfactory tract. The cranial nerves, except the optic and olfactory, and the relations they bear to one another and to the visceral arches of the head, are shown in fig. 91 as they occur in the human embryo of about four weeks. Fig. 92 distinguishes diagrammatically the nerves which grow into the nerve centres (centripetal or afferent nerves) from those which grow out from the centres (centrifugal or efferent nerves), and the extent of growth inwards of the former in the same embryo. The sympathetic nerves and ganglia.—That these are merely outgrowths of the cerebrospinal nervous system, nearly all recent observations, both morpho- logical and physiological, clearly show. But even before this fact had come to be generally recognized, it was known that they are developed in connection with the spinal nerves (Balfour), and indeed as offshoots from the posterior spinal ganglia (Schenk and Birdsell, Onodi). They appear for a time as enlargements upon the main stem of each spinal nerve, but afterwards become connected with this by a short branch (r. communicans) (fig. 88), and with one another by a longitudinal commissure. The branch in question contains the splanchnic fibres of the spinal nerve, and the sympathetic ganglia are its splanchnic or vagrant ganglia (Gaskell). The splanchnic ganglia of the cranial nerves are probably formed in a similar way, but their mode of development has not as yet been worked out. Tbe ciliary ganglion appears to be formed as an outgrowth of the Gasserian ganglion (fig. 91, c.g.) much in the same way as the sympathetic trunk ganglia are formed as offshoots of the posterior spinal ganglia. In elasmobranchs it is derived from the ophthalmicus profundus ganglion, itself an offshoot of the Gasserian (Ewart). Paterson has recently described the sympathetic chain of ganglia as developing in mammals (rodents) from a continuous rod of mesoblast lying on either side of the aorta, and as becoming only secondarily segmented and connected with the cerebro-spinal nerves. But observations upon earlier embryos than were used by Paterson are necessary before the mesoblastic origin of the rod can be admitted. RECENT LITERATURE. Ahlborn, Ueber die Bedeutung dcr Zirbeldrilse. Zeitschr. f. wissensch. Zoologie. Bd. xl., 1S84. Barnes, Will., On the development of the posterior fissure of the spinal cord and the reduction of the central canal in the pig. Proc. Americ. Acad. Arts and Sciences, 1884. Beard, J., On the cranial ganglia and segmental sense organs of fishes. Zoolog. Anzeiger, 1885 ; The system, of branchial sense organs and their associated ganglia in Ichthyopsida. Quarterly Journal of Micr. Science, 1885 ; The development of the peripheral nervous system of vertebrates. Quarterly Journal of Micr. Science, Oct., 18S8. Bedot, M., Jlcchcrches sur le diveloppement dcs nerfs spinaux ches les Tritons. Recueil zoolog. Suisse, i., 2, 1884. VOL. i. u