21 GASTROLATION OF VERTEBRATES. Fig. 24.—Four stages in the development of amphioxus illustrating the formation of the gastrula. (Hatschek.) I. Spherical blastoderm ; the cells at the lower pole are larger than the others, and filled with granules. II. Invagination of the lower pole producing a cupping of the vesicle. III. Completion of the invagination ; the blastoderm is now bilaminar, and forms a cup with narrowed mouth, the blastopore, hi, and a double wall of epiblast, ep, and hypoblast, hy (or primitive ectoderm and primitive entoderm). IV. The ovum is now elongated ; the cavity of the gastrula forms a primitive alimentary canal, the orifice of which is the blastopore, which is directed dorsally. Extending from this along the dorsal surface (right in the figure) a shallow groove is seen in optical section: this is the rudiment of the nervous system. ologists that cells from the lateral parts of both primary layers are added to the intermediate layer, and assist in its extension. According to the observations of Bonnet in the sheep, there is an addition to the middle layer from the peripheral (thickened) portion of the hypoblast ; this has been long held to be the case with the blastoderm of the bird, and the cells thus derived (parablastic) have been considered to have the special function of forming the connective tissues and blood. Whether, however, this is actually so, must be regarded as at present undecided. However produced, the appearance of a middle layer causes the originally bilaminar blastoderm to be trilaminar, and its three layers have received the names of ectoderm, mesoderm, and entoderm, or epiblast, mesoblast, and hypoblast. The g-astrula condition of the vertebrate ovum.—It will be observed that in the mammal the two primary layers of the blastoderm, at least their principal part, are formed by a separation into two strata of the cells of the inner granular mass which occupies the interior of the ovum after segmentation. The bilaminar condition may therefore be said to result from a process of delamination in an originally simple mass or stratum. But in