34 SEPARATION OP THE EMBRYO. described under the name of the notochordal canal, and corresponds with the hypo- blastic invagination, which in Amphioxns (fig. 2(J, I., ch) also forms the first stage in the development of the notochord. A flattening out and even eventually a duplication of this canal occurs in the chick and in various mammals at a somewhat later stage than that given in fig. 34. According to Spec its cleft-like cavity may pass laterally into the commencing mesoblastic cleavage (coelom- invagination ?). The notochord is essentially an embryonic structure in mammals, although it does not completely disappear, for traces of it are to be found throughout life in the centre of the intervertebral discs. Wien fully developed it is a cylindrical rod composed of clear epithelium-like cells, enclosed within a special sheath of homo- geneous substance. These cells, although they may become considerably enlarged and vacuolated, undergo no marked histogenetic change and take no part in the formation of any tissue or organ of the adult. Separation of the embryo from the blastoderm.—The embryonic rudiment which thus first makes its appearance in the blastoderm, and which consists CoeLoin; Fig. 35.—Mesial sagittal section through the anterior end of an early sheep embryo SHOWING THE COMMENCING FORMATION OF THE FORE-GUT, (Bonnet.) cp, epiblast; liy, hypoblast; f.g., foregut, formed by folding over of layers ; am, amnion (head fold). Below the foregut the cephalic coelom is becoming formed as clefts in the mesoblast. essentially of neural groove, mesoblastic thickenings, and notochord, becomes at a very early period marked off in front by a dipping down of the blastodermic layers immediately in front of the anterior end of the neural groove, so as to form a transverse curvilinear sulcus—the anterior limiting sulcus. This is at first wide and shallow, but soon deepens and narrows, and takes at the same time an oblique direction, curving downwards and backwards under the front end of the neural groove. The sulcus is really due to a growth forwards of the anterior end of the embryonic rudiment, over the part of the blastoderm immediately in front of it, so that this anterior end now projects as a distinct head (fig. 35). All the three layers are involved in the forward growth and overfolding which produces the head, so that a prolongation from the blastodermic cavity, which is of course lined by hypoblast, becomes included in the head, and the anterior part of the primitive alimentary canal, orfore-gut {f.g.) is thereby produced. Formed in this way its front end is necessarily blind, and for a long while there is no mouth nor any communication between the fore-gut and the exterior of the embryo. The mouth becomes formed later by invagination from the exterior. In the rabbit, and also in the chick, the blastoderm at this time is still bilaminar in and near the middle line in front of the embryo, for the growth of the mesoblast has not yet