153 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL VEINS. The primitive jugular vein receives the blood from the cranial cavity by channels in front of the ear, which arc subsequently obliterated : in the greater part of its extent it becomes the external jugular vein; and near its lower mid it receives small branches, which grow to be the internal jugular and subclavian veins (fig. 185). The cardinal veins are the primitive vessels which return the bloody from the Wolffian bodies, the vertebral column, and the parietes of the trunk. The inferior vena cava is a vessel of later development, which opens into the trunk of the umbilical and vitelline veins, above the venae hepatic® revclientes. The iliac veins. Fig. 185.—Diagram of the condition of THE GREAT VEINS IN THE EMBRYO, AND OF THEIR TRANSFORMATION INTO THE permanent veins. (After Kolliker.) j, jugular veins uniting with the subcla- vian, s; c.a, cardinal veins becoming the azygos as in B ; cl.c, ducts of Cuvier formed by the union in B of jugular and cardinal, and becoming the superior vena cava on the right side, hut disappearing on the left side ; ca', part of left cardinal vein which disap- pears ; ci, vena cava inferior ; l, hepatic veins and ductus venosus ; il, common iliac veins ; cr, external iliacs ; h, hypogastric becoming the internal iliacs. which unite to form the inferior vena cava, communicate with the cardinal veins. The inferior extre- mities of the cardinal veins are per- sistent as the internal iliac veins. Above the iliac veins the cardinal veins are obliterated in a consider- able part of their course ; the upper portions then become continuous with two new vessels, the posterior vertebral veins of Eathke, which receive the lumbar and intercostal twigs. As development proceeds, the direction of the ducts of Cuvier is altered by tne descent of the heart from the cervical into the thoracic region, and becomes the same as that of the primitive jugular veins. A communicating branch makes its appearance, directed transversely from the junction of the left subclavian and jugular veins, across the middle line to the right jugular ; and further down in the thoracic region between the posterior vertebral veins, a communicating branch passes obliquely across the middle line from right to left. The communi- cating branch between the primitive jugular veins is converted into the left brachio- cephalic or innominate vein. The portion of vessel between the right subclavian vein and the termination of the communicating branch becomes the right brachio- cephalic vein. The portion of the primitive jugular vein below the communicating vein, together with the right duct of Cuvier, forms the vena cava superior, while the cardinal vein opening into it is the extremity of the great vena azygos. On the left side, the portion of the primitive jugular vein placed below the communicating branch, and the cardinal and posterior vertebral veins, together with the cross branch between the two posterior vertebral veins, are converted into the left superior intercostal and left superior and inferior azygos veins. The variability in the adult arrangement of these vessels depends on the different extent to which the originally continuous vessels arc developed or atrophied at one noint or another.