INTRODUCTION. animals. In tlic dctcrnunation of these general principles, or laws of morphology, it is necessary to combine the knowledge of the anatomy and development'of' animals with that of man. PLAN OP ORGANIZATION. Vertebrate type.—The general plan of construction of the human body agrees closely with that which prevails in a certain number of animals, viz., mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, and is known as the vertebrate type of organi- zation. The main feature of that type, and that from which its name is derived, belongs to the internal skeleton, and consists in the existence of a median longi- tudinal column, which extends through the whole trunk, and is composed in the fully developed state of a series of bones termed vertebra. This vertebral column is formed in the early embryo around a simple rod-like structure, the primitive skeletal axis, which is called the notochord, and which in most vertebrate animals disappears to a greater or less extent in the course of development. The more solid portions of the vertebrae immediately surrounding the notochord are known as the bodies or centra (figs. 2 and 3), and constitute a pillar around which the other parts are grouped with a certain regularity of structure. At one extremity of this pillar is situated the head, showing in almost all the animals formed upon this type a greater development of its constituent parts ; and at the other the tail in which an opposite character or that of diminution prevails ; while on the sides of the main part or trunk, there project, in relation with some of the vertebral elements, two pairs of symmetrical limbs. The head and trunk contain the organs or viscera most important to life, such as the alimentary canal and the great central organs of the vascular and nervous systems, while the limbs, from which such principal organs are absent, are very variable and differ widely in the degree of their development among the various animals formed upon the vertebrate type. In man and the higher animals the trunk is divisible into neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The vertebrate form of skeleton is invariably accompanied by a determinate and conformable disposition of the other most important organs of the body, viz. :— firstly, the existence on the dorsal aspect of the vertebral axis of an elongated cavity or canal which contains the brain and spinal cord, or central organs of the nervous system ; and secondly, the existence on the ventral aspect of the vertebral axis of a larger cavity, the visceral cavity, body cavity or coelom, in which are contained the principal viscera connected with nutrition and reproduction, such as the alimentary canal, the heart and lungs, the great blood-vessels, and the urinary and generative organs. The general disposition of the parts of the body and of the more important viscera in their relation to the vertebral axis are shown in the accompanying diagrams of the external form and longitudinal and transverse sections of the human embryo at an early period of its existence. Segmentation of tlie body.—The vertebrate type of organisation in the repetition of similar structural elements in a longitudinal series, has a segmented character, especially in the axial portion of the body, and this segmentation affects more or less, not merely the skeletal parts of its structure, but also, to some extent, its other component organs. A segmented plan of construction is by no means restricted to vertebrate animals, but exists in several other classes of the animal kingdom, as is most conspicuously seen in the Arthropoda, such as insects and Crustacea, and in the Annelida or worms. These animals, however, although showing a serial repetition of parts of like structure, are not considered to belong to the verte- brate type of organization. . In the human embryo, as in that of all vertebrate animals, the segmentation is most marked in the muscular system, the nervous and osseous systems becoming for the most part corres- pondingly marked off: in the adult the osseous and nervous systems retain in great measuie the segmentation which has thus been produced, although in the muscular system it has