DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVES. n to the dorsal aspect of the neural tube, but that attachment becomes subsequently lost, and they then form completely isolated portions of epiblast, composed of oval cells, and l}iug at the side ot the embryonic cord between it and the muscle plates of the protovertebr® (fig. 84). These are the rudiments of the posterior-root ganglia. The icmaindei oi the neural crest disappears : at least in most vertebrata. Some little time after the separation of these ganglion-rudiments, the ventral or anterior roots of the spinal nerves begin to grow out from the ventro-lateral aspect of the neural tube. They were originally described by Balfour in elasmobranchs, as forming bud-like outgrowths from the neural epiblast, the outgrowths being com- posed of spindle-shaped cells (fig. 84, ar). But according to the recent and extended Fig. 84.—Section through the dorsal part of the trunk of a torpedo embryo. (Balfour.) pr, g, n, spinal ganglion rudiment; ar, anterior root; ch, notochord ; nc, neural canal; mp, muscle- plate. Fig. 85.—Section of the ventro-lateral angle of the spinal cord of a pristiurus embryo SHOWING THE OUTGROWTH OF AN ANTERIOR ROOT-RUDIMENT. (His.) a.r, axis cylinder processes of neuroblasts, forming the anterior root; g, germinal cells in innermost part of wall of neural canal. observations of His in various classes of vertebrates, what actually grow out to form the anterior roots, are the fibrous prolongations (axis-cylinder processes) of neuro- blasts (v. aniect, p. 58), which processes converge to the point of exit of the root and penetrate gradually into the adjoining mesoblast (fig. 85, a. r), where they come into close contact with the previously formed ganglion rudiments of the pos- terior roots.1 The fibres of the posterior roots are developed, according to His, as processes from the oval cells of the ganglion rudiment. These cells are in fact neuroblasts, and from either end of each cell, which is thus rendered bipolar (fig. 8G), a process becoming eventually the axis-cylinder of a nerve-fibre grows out, one towards the central organ, the other towards the periphery. The centrally directed processes soon reach and grow into the embryonic cord at its dorso-lateral aspect, where they are presently seen in sections occupying an oval area near the periphery of the cord ; 1 The place at which the anterior roots spring from the cord is not opposite to the corresponding posterior root, but midway between that root and the succeeding one.