SEPARATION OP THE DECIDUA AT BIRTH. gf K 00 as to produce a partial blockage of these veins, preparatory to the detachment of the placenta from the layer. The villi do not at first cover the whole surface of the ovum, but are deficient at the embryonic, and perhaps also at the opposite, pole. In the earliest human ovum which has hitherto been described, that of Reichert (fig. 58), the villi, which are quite simple, occur in a broad zone around the circumference of the ovum, leaving the (somewhat flattened) poles smooth and free from villi, and on one of these poles a thickening of the wall of the vesicle could be detected, which was probably the embryonic area. But in all other early human ova which have been noticed, the chorion, which is now formed by the false amnion, is covered with ramified villi (shaggy chorion), and these are already vascularized from the allan- tois, and have grown into the sub- stance of the decidua reflexa and the decidua serotina, the formation of the placenta having already begun. Separation of the decidua at birth, and regeneration of the uterine mucous membrane.—In parturition, the pressure of the contracting muscular walls upon the uterine contents, and especially upon the amniotic fluid, causes a bulgiug of the membranes (consisting of the combined decidum, the chorion, and the amnion) through the os uteri. When the membranes are ruptured, the amuiotic fluid first escapes, and subsequently the foetus is expelled. With further contraction of the uterus, the placenta becomes detached from the uterine wall, separating along the plane of the dilated parts of the glands (stratum spongio- num of the decidua serotina), and as it is expelled, the separation extends around the decidua lining the rest of the uterus, which appears in the “ after-birth ” along with the chorion and amnion as a thin membranous skirt to the edge of the placenta. The deepest part of the decidua containing the bases of the uterine glands is everywhere left in connection with the muscular tissue, and from these basal portions of the glands, first the whole of the uterine glands, and subsequently the lining epithelium of the uterus become gradually regenerated. Fig. GO.—Portion of an injected villus from a PLACENTA OF ABOUT FIVE MONTHS (Minot). RECENT LITERATURE. Allen, W., Omphcdo-mesenteric remains in mammals. Journ. Anat. and Physiol., xvii., 1SS3. Beneden, Ed. van, De la fixation clu blastocysle d la muqiteusc uterine chez le murin (Vesper- tilio murinus). Bullet, de 1 Acad. roy. de Belgique, Ser. iii., T. xv.; Dc la formation et dc la constitu- tion du placenta chez le murin (Vespertilio murinus). Bulletins de l’Acad. roy. de Belgique, T. xv., Beneden, E. v,, et Julin, Recherches sur la formation des annexes faStales chez les mammiferes. Arch, de biologic, v. 1881. r • Utcnnmilch und ilire Bedcutung fiir die Frucht. Beitrii'e zur Biologie, 18S2 ; Die Eihdutc des Pferdes. Verhandl. d. anat. Gesellschaft, 1889. Burnm, Zur Kemtniss der Utcroplacmlargefdsse. Archiv f. Gynakologie, xxxv., xxxvii. ; Zur Anat. cl. Placenta. Wurzburg Sitzungsb., 1889. Cadiat, L’allantoide. Graz. med. de Paris, 4 sdr. vi., 1887. Caldwell, W. H., On the arrangement of the embryonic membranes in marsupial animals. Quarterly Journal of Microsc. Science, xxiv., 1884. Colucci, G., Bi alcuni novi dati di struttura della placenta Uinand, 1SS7.