DEVELOPMENT OF THE OVAItY. 124 certain length, the amount of this upward extension of the fused ducts varying in different animals. 1 he united part of the Mullerian ducts afterwards forms the foundation of the vagina and uterus in the female, and the prostatic vesicle, or uterus masculinus in believed to represent in the maie the duct. Fig. 150.—Transverse sections of the GENITAL CORD IN A FEMALE CALF EM- uryo. Magnified fourteen diameters. (Kolliker.) 1, near the upper end ; 2 and 3, near the middle ; 4, at the lower end ; a, anterior, p, posterior aspect; m, Mullerian ducts united or separate ; w, Wolffian ducts. the male ; the upper or fore part of the Mullerian duct disappears in the male, in the female it forms the oviduct (Fallopian tube). The hydatids of Morgagni are remnant of part of the Mullerian In the human embryo of the third month the uterus is bifid, and it is by the upward ex- tension of the median fusion that the triangular body of the uterus is produced. The bifid condition corresponds with the bicorned uterus of many animals, and the process of fusion above described explains the occasional malformation of a partial or complete division of the uterus and vagina into two passages. Up to the fifth month there is no distinction between vagina and uterus. Then the os uteri begins to be seen, and the cervix uteri subsequently becomes manifest as a part, which is at first thicker and larger than the rest of che organ. In some animals the prostatic vesicle of the male is prolonged into cornua and tubes like the uterus of the female. The germinal epithelium.—This name was given by Waldeyer to the thick- ened epithelium lying along the inner side of the Wolffian projection (fig. 143, a). The cells become at first columnar, and then two, three, or even several layers thick, while at the same time the mesoblast below them becomes increased in amount, and thus a marked projection is produced, which in some vertebrates forms a distinct ridge—the genital ridge. Amongst the cells of the germinal epithelium, some are seen which are larger and more spherical than the others, these are the primordial ova (fig. 143, o), and occur in both sexes ; in fact, up to a certain point, the differ- ence of sex of the embryo is not apparent. Development of the ovary.—In the female sex the germinal epithelium soon becomes much thickened, and begins to grow down into the mesoblastic stroma in the form of columns of epithelium cells, which enclose amongst them some of the prim- ordial ova.1 These columns constitute the egg-tubes of Pfliiger (fig. 152). They are separated from one another by mesoblast, which grows towards and into the germinal epithelium simultaneously with the down-growth of the egg-tubes, and there is thus produced a complete interlocking of strands of connective and epithelial tissue, which together constitute the ovary. The egg-tubes next become broken up into rounded groups or “ nests ” of germinal epithelial cells, each of which may enclose one or more primordial ova. The primordial ova eventually develope into ordinary ova, two or more frequently fusing together to form a single ovum (Balfour), while from the remaining cells in the “nest ” the epithelium of the Graafian follicle is eventually produced. In many of the cell nests, primordial ova cannot at first be 1 Mihalkovics states that the cells which arc to form the follicular epithelium first sink into the stroma, and that afterwards the primordial ova follow them, and become enclosed by them.