(ESOPHAGUS. STOMACH, AND INTESTINES. 104. ancl gradually widens out into the dilatation which represents the stomach.1 This organ, which is at first nearly straight (fig. 125, A, Mg), soon begins to show the con- Fig. 123.—Sketch of a longitudinal section through THE ALIMENTARY CANAL OF A HUMAN EMBRYO, SOON AFTER THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE PRIMITIVE VELUM. (His.) ¥ The alimentary canal is shaded throughout; U.K, section of mandibular arch ; It. T, hypophysis ; behind it the remains of the pharyngeal septum ; L<j, com- mencing lung, the future orifice of the larynx being opposite K ; Mg, stomach ; Lb, liver ; Nb, yolk stalk ; W, Wolffian duct ; B, blind portion of hind gut; all, allantois. vexity of the greater curvature on the side next the vertebral column, and the concavity of the lesser curvature on the opposite border (fig. 125, B, Mg), while the pyloric end becomes tilted away from the vertebral column, pro- ducing the duodenal loop (fig. 125, C, D). Finally the organ becomes turned over on what was previously its right side, which now becomes the posterior surface, and the pyloric extremity being also tilted over, the duodenal loop is thus thrown over to the right side of the abdomen (fig. 126). The small intestine is also at first quite short and straight, with a wide aperture to the yolk-sac (fig. 125, A, Mb), but gradually lengthens as the communication with the yolk-sac becomes more contracted, and (besides the loop formed by the tilting of the pylorus) develops a long V's^aPe^ 1°°P opposite the attachment of the vitelline duct (fig. 125, C, D, and fig. 127). The loop of intestine to which the vitelline duct is attached passes, for a time, into the umbilical cord, close to its attachment, enclosed in a protrusion of the peritoneal cavity (fig. 124). It occasionally remains iD this situation until late in foetal life. rib Fig. 124.—Sketch ok the human embryo of the TENTH WEEK, SHOWING THE COIL OF INTESTINE IN the umbilical cord. (Mien Thomson.) The amnion and villous chorion have been opened and the embryo drawn aside from them ; v, umbilical vesicle, connected with the coil of intestine, i, by a small, almost linear tube. The figure at the side represents the first part of the umbilical cord magnified ; i, coil of intes- tine ; vi, vitelline-intestinal duct, alongside of which are seen omphalo-mesenteric blood-vessels. The mesentery is developed by a thinning out and extension of the mesoblastic tissue which lies betiveen the intestine and the vertebral column. It forms a continuous membrane along the whole length of the alimentary canal from the stomach to the rectum, although the part attached to the 1 It has been shown (Balfour, Mcuron) in most vertebrates—mammals excepted—that at n certain period of development the lumen of the oesophagus becomes for a time completely obliterated at its upper extremity.