127 THE EXTERNAL ORGANS. they usually enter by the end of the eighth month. But previously to this, a pouch of peritoneum—the ytwrocessus vaginalis—has descended into the scrotum along the abdominal ring, pushing before it part of the internal oblique muscle and the aponeurosis of "the external oblique, which form respectively the cremasteric muscle Fig. 154.—Diagrams to illustrate the descent of the testicle and the formation of its coverings. (0. Hertwig.) In A the testicle is lying close to the internal abdominal ring. In B it has passed into the sac of the tunica vaginalis. 1, skin of abdomen ; R, skin of scrotum ; 2, superficial abdominal fascia ; 2 , Cooper’s fascia ; 3, muscular and aponeurotic layer of abdominal wall ; 3', cremaster muscle and sper- matic fascia; 4, peritoneum ; 4', processus vaginalis ; 4" visceral layer of processus vaginalis covering testicle ; t, testicle ; v.d., vas deferens ; r, internal abdominal ring. and spermatic fascia (fig. 154). This pouch, after the descent of the testicle into it, becomes shut off from the abdominal cavity, and forms the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The descent of the testicle into the scrotum is intimately connected with changes in the gubernaculum. The gubernaculum extends, as before mentioned, from the integument of the groin, which afterwards forms the scrotum, upwards through the abdominal ring to the lower part of the epididymis. When the pro- cessus vaginalis is formed, the gubernaculum lies behind the serous sac. The descent of the testicle is accompanied by a shortening of the gubernacular cord, which thus appears to draw the organ downwards into the scrotum, and the testicle following the line originally taken by the gubernacular cord, also passes down along the posterior wall of the processus vaginalis, which it therefore invaginates from behind. In many animals the testicles remain throughout life in the abdominal cavity. In others they only descend into the scrotum during- the period of “ heat.” Cases of cryptorchismus, in which one or both testicles have failed to reach the scrotum, and have remained either in the inguinal canal or within the abdominal cavity, are not unfrequent in the human subject. The ovaries also undergo .a considerable change of position, accompanied by a shortening of the band which corresponds with the gubernaculum testis in the male. This band, as it passes by the united part of the Mullerian ducts which are forming the body of the uterus, becomes attached laterally to that organ, and the descent of the ovary is normally arrested at the side of the uterus. Iu rare cases, however, the ovaries pass through the abdominal ring by the canal of Nuck, and may even be found in the labia majora, where they resemble in position the testicles within the scrotum. The External Organs.—The external organs are up to a certain time entirely of the same form in both sexes, and the several organs which afterwards distinguish the male and female externally have a common origin (see lig. 155). A cloaca exists till after the fifth week, and the genital eminence from which the clitoris or penis is formed makes its appearance in the course of the fifth or sixth week in front of and within the orifice of the cloaca. In the course of the seventh and eighth weeks this orifice is seen to be divided into two parts ; but the exact manner in which the sepa- ration of the two apertures takes place has not been accurately traced. The process