8 STRUCTURE OF THE OVARIAN OVUM. nucleus, which was termed by its discoverer, Purkinje, the ymniml vesicled This, which is about ^th inch in diameter, has all the characters of the nucleus of a cell. It consists of a nuclear membrane enclosing a clear material or matrix, imbedded nithin nhich may be seen strands of karyoplasm, enclosing one or more well-marked nucleoli (fig. 6, gv). Frequently there is but one nucleolus, which is then huge and prominent, and has received the name of tjermincil sjtol (wciculci (jev- minaUvci, Wagner, 1885). Tlieie is some doubt whether, before fertilization, there is another membrane (vitelline membrane) enclosing the vitellus within the zona radiata. The evidence of the presence oi such a mem Inane is by no means clem, althoug'h its existence has been maintained by very competent observers (v. Beneden, Balfour). The mammalian ovum (that of monotremes alone excepted) differs from that of other vertebrates in the relatively small amount of nutritive material (yolk granules, deutoplasm; which is embedded in its protoplasm. In fishes, amphibia, reptiles, and especially in birds, the amount of such nutritive material is vastly greater than that of the protoplasm itself, so that the very existence of the latter is obscured in most parts of the ovum, and it is only in the immediate neighbourhood of the germinal vesicle that the protoplasm can be distinctly Pig- l-—Diagram of a holoblastic (alecithal) ovum (A) and of a meroblastio (telolecithal) ovum (B). (E. A. S.) Only a small part of the latter is represented. The yolk or food material is represented in both by clear globules, which in B are seen vastly to preponderate, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the germinal vesicle. recognized (fig. 7, B). It is here also that, after fertilization, the more active changes in the ovum occur, and it is this part alone in which in the bird and most other oviparous vertebrates the process of division or segmentation of the yolk and consequent formation of embryonic cells proceeds. Hence these ova are said to undergo a process of incomplete segmentation, only a part of the ovum appearing to undergo development, and they are accordingly termed mcro- blastic to distinguish them from those (like the mammalian ova) in which the yolk or nutri- tive material is everywhere in relatively small proportion to the protoplasm, the whole of which undergoes division after fertilization, and participates in the formation of the embryo (.holoblastic ova). This small amount of nutritive material in the mammal is obviously related to the fact that the mammalian ovum early acquires an attachment to the maternal system from which it is then able directly to derive its nutriment, whereas the meroblastio ovum of oviparous vertebrata necessarily contains all the nutriment required by the developing bird, reptile, or fish, until it is sufficiently advanced in development to emerge from the egg and obtain food independently. Although, however, the mammalian ovum is holoblastic, it is none the less clear, from a comparison of the early stages of its development with that of the bird, that the ancestors of the mammalia must have had ova of the meroblastio type. Balfour has further conveniently distinguished between those ova in which there is a great accumulation of nutritive or yolk material at one pole (telolecithal ova, as in the bird, reptile, and fish amongst vertebrates), those in which the accumulation of yolk is in the middle of the ovum (eeutroleeithal ova, as in arthropods), and those in which it is scattered pretty equally in small amount throughout the protoplasm without any very marked accumulation 1 Purkinje discovered the germinal vesicle in the bird’s ovum in 1825 ; that of mammals was first noticed by Coste in 1833.