ibU DEVELOPMENT OF THE MUSCLES. and may even leave a more or less distinct space unoccupied by cells (protovcrtebral cavity). Tins cavity has occasionally been noticed (Lockwood, Bonnet) to be continuous laterally with the mesoblastic (ccelomic) cleavage (fig. 189, B ; see also Fig. 189.—Two SECTIONS 01' A SHEEP embryo. (Bonnet.) A, shows the cavity within the proto- vertebr*. In B, the protovertebra on the left side of the section is united with the lateral mesoblast; on the right side its cavity also is continuous with the ccelomic cleft in that mesoblast. am, amnion ; n.c, neural canal ; p. v, protovertebra ; ao, aorta ; p.p, pleuro-peritoneal space (coelom). fig. 139, p. 117), and it is probably the morphological equi- valent of the coelom in this part of the mesoblast. Whether there be originally a cavity or not in it, the protovertebra presently be- comes filled up with cells and then forms a fairly compact mass of cells which are mostly irregu- larly arranged, but externally (next to the cutaneous epiblast) become regularly disposed into an epithelium-like plate of co- lumnar cells. This is known as the muscle plate, and when the inner part of the protovertebra becomes broken up as a distinct mass and joins with the neighbouring protovertebrae to form the membranous vertebral column (see below), the muscle plates still remain distinct : in them therefore the original Fig. 190.—Transverse section OF THE TRUNK OF A CAT EMBRYO, SHOWING MUSCLE PLATES. (E. A. S.) m.p., muscle plate ; ao, aorta ; m.g., mid-gut; am, amnion ; w, vesicle of Wolffian body; w.cl., Wolffian duct. mesoblastic segmentation continues to be exhibited. They do not long remain as a single epithelium-like layer, for the extremities of this layer fold sharply round and become continu- ous with a cell-stratum, which immediately lines the interna, surface of the columnar layer and forms an inner muscle-plate (fig. 190). It is uncertain whether the cells of this inner muscle- plate are derived from part of the columnar layer which has folded over, or whether they spring from other cells of the protovertebra. Soon after their appearance as a distinct layer of the muscle-plate they begin to elongate in the sagittal (antero-