159 development op the muscles. DEVELOPMENT OP THE SEROUS CAVITIES AND OF THE MUSCLES AND SKELETON. The serotis cavities—peritoneum, pleurae, pericardium—are derived from the original split or cleavage of the mesoblast, which constitutes the coelom or general body cavity (pleuro-peritoneal cavity of older authors). This cleft is formed in the head as well as in the trunk, and when the heart is formed as a double tube, each half is enclosed within a portion of that cavity, which later on, when the body walls bend round and meet to enclose the fore-gut, comes, like the heart itself, to occupy a position on the ventral aspect of the alimentary tube. The part of the coelom which thus contains the heart is not for some time entirely distinct, but communicates dorsally by two comparatively narrow channels with the anterior part of the general body cavity, here separated into lateral halves, which ultimately become the pleurae, by the alimentary canal. Subsequently these communications become obliterated, and the heart-coelom separated as a distinct cavity (pericardial cavity). Below, where the great veins enter the heart, they pass into a mass of mesoblastic tissue, which is connected with the anterior body wall (where it receives the umbilical and vitelline veins), and also with the lateral wall (where it receives the ducts of Cuvier), and which, as the heart bends, so that the venous end passes behind the ventricle and bulb, is carried along with the veins up behind that organ, and thus forms an obliquely placed thick septum, at first incomplete, but subsequently becoming entirely closed, which separates the heart within the pericardial part of the body cavity in front and above from the stomach and alimentary canal within the peri- toneal part of that cavity behind and below. The thick septum, besides containing the saccus reuniens and the portions of the great veins (vitelline, umbilical, ducts of Cuvier) which open into that cavity, also contains the rudiments of a part of the diaphragm and the mesoblastic part of the liver, into which the hypoblastic part grows from the adjacent duodenum ; it has been termed by His the transverse septum (see figs. 177, 178). As development proceeds, the septum becomes gradually diffe- rentiated into its several parts. The great veins become still further shifted behind the heart, and the saccus reuniens becomes incorporated with that organ. The liver, which is at first contained entirely within the septum, becomes split off from its upper layer, which now forms the thin portion of the diaphragm, while the cavity of the peritoneum extends from either side, and separates them from one another, except along the attachment of the broad ligaments. The diaphragm is completed by a growth of mesoblast which occurs on each side, and cuts off the anterio-dorsal portions of the body-cavity into which the lungs are invaginated (recessus pulmonales) from the posterior or peritoneal part. The serous membranes are formed by differentiation of the lining mesoblast of the coelom. The formation of the omenta, and the changes which the mesenteric folds of peritoneum undergo, have been already mentioned in connection with the develop- ment of the abdominal viscera. Development of the muscles.—The muscles of the trunk are formed from the protovertebroe. These are at first, as previously described, separate masses of mesoblast, the cells of which have at the periphery of the mass a tendency to a radial disposition (fig. 189, A), whilst toward the centre they are loosely arranged, 1 The manner in which the pleurae are invaginated by the growing lungs has already been alluded to (p. 110).