THE WOLFFIAN DUCT AND BODY. 118 of the body, where it becomes detached from the epiblast, and is connected with and opens into the hind-gut (cloaca). I have here followed what has appeared to me the most probable account of the origin of the duct (Martin, Strahl), but it is right to state that in the opinion of some observers (Hensen, Spee, Flemming) the formation and growth of the duct in connection with the epiblast is primary, especially in mammals, and the duct is originally formed by a longitudinal thickening and involution of the epiblast, which only secondarily becomes connected with the intermediate cell-mass. Compare also Haddon, Origin of segmental duct, Proc. Roy. Dublin Society, Yol. Y. In teleosteans (Rosenburg) and amphibia (Gotte) the Wolffian duct has been described as developing in the form of a longitudinal groove-like invagination of the somatopleural meso- blast (Balfour, Comp. Emb., vol. ii., pp. 580, 582), but more recent researches appear to indi- cate that in these animals also the epiblast may be concerned in its formation. The Wolffian body developes in the intermediate cell-mass between the Wolffian duct and the body-cavity as a series of transverse tubes which lie at right angles to the course of the Wolffian duct, and open into it at regular intervals. The usual Fig. 140.—Transverse sec- tion OP THE TRUNK OF A CAT EMBRYO, SHOWING THE VESICULAR STAGE OF THE WOLFFIAN TUBULES. (E. A. S.) m.p., muscle plate ; ao, aorta; vn.g., mid-gut ; am, amnion ; w, vesicle of Wolffian body; vi.d., Wolffian duct; cce, coelom. mode of formation of these tubes—which are sometimes termed seg- mental tubes — appears to consist in the accu- mulation at regular intervals, corresponding with the somites, of rounded masses of mesoblast on the mesial or ventral side of the Wolffian duct (fig. 142, iv.b.), which masses become afterwards hollowed out so as to form small vesicles, at first isolated, but afterwards growing towards and opening into the Wolffian duct (fig. 140).1 Corresponding with these vesicles there become formed invagi- nations of the epithelium of the body-cavity (fig. 141, st), which is thickened along the inner side of the Wolffian projection, and grows at regular intervals towards the vesicles. These ingrowths may at first communicate by funnel-shaped openings, which in some lower vertebrates are lined by ciliated epithelium, with the body-cavity, but the openings in higher vertebrates become closed again before communication with the Wolffian duct is established. Finally, the connection between the Wolffian tubes and the peritoneal epithelium is completely severed, and the condition of simple or curved transverse tubes, blind at their inner ends and opening at their outer ends into the Wolffian duct, is produced (fig. 142, B). After a time the blind extremities are seen to be enlarged and spoon-shaped, and glomeruli 1 According to v. Wijlie the hollow condition is the primary one in elasmobranchs, and the cavity of each vesicle represents an intermediate part of the ccelcm of the segment (meso-coclom), the dorsal coelom being represented by the cavity of the proto-vertebra and the ventral coelom by the pleuroperi- toneal space. I have myself observed this condition of a hollow intermediate cell-mass communicating on the one hand with the cavity of the protovertebra and on the other with the cleft of the lateral mesoblast, in a chick of 36 hours (see fig. 139). In mammals the Wolffian vesicles are more numerous than the segments.