38 CEREBRAL VESICLES. number, but subsequently the most anterior (fore-brain) and posterior (hind-brain) each tonus two vesicles, whereas the middle vesicle (mid-brain) remains permanently undivided, live vesicles are therefore then to be seen, and these give rise eventually pr Fig. 40.—Surface view of an early embryo of the guinea pig showing the commencement of THE THREE PRIMARY CEREBRAL YESICLES (1, 2, 3) AS ENLARGEMENTS OF THE MEDULLARY GROOVE. Semi-diagrammatic. pr, primitive streak and groove. Fig. 41.—Rabbit embryo of the 9th day, from the surface. \l. (Kolliker.) The medullary groove is enlarged anteriorly and tlie primary optic vesicles are growing out from tlie first cerebral enlargement. On either side of the bead, the (double) tubular heart is seen. Eight pairs of protovertebra; are formed. to the five fundamental divisions of the brain, while from the sides of the fore-brain the rudiments of the optic nerves and retinas grow out as hollow protrusions. Heart and vascular system.—While this change is progressing in the neural canal, and the proto vertebras are becoming formed in the paraxial mesoblast, the first sign of a vascular system is beginning to make its appearance in the mesoblast on either side of the head in the form of a simple tubular vessel (fig. 41), which becomes developed in the splanchnopleure in this situation. As the splanchnopleure and its accompanying hypoblast fold round on either side under the head to form the fore-gut, these two simple tubes necessarily come together in the middle line, and they then fuse together longitudinally to form a single tube, the primitive heart (fig. 38); this tube runs for a short distance in the mesoblast immediately under the fore-gut, and then divides into two branches, which pass laterally, so as to partially encircle the fore-gut, and thence course backwards along the body of the embryo on either side of the notochord. These two vessels form the primitive arteries (primitive aortic), the part of each which encircles the fore-gut as it passes dorsalwards being known as the firs' aortic arch. On the other hand, the posterior