THE EXTERNAL ORGANS. 12S is connected with the formation of the urogenital cord as an independent structure, and results in the division of the cloaca into a dorsal or anal and a ventral or urogenital part (urogenital sinus). Somewhat later, in the ninth or tenth week, a transverse iutegumeutal band completes the division, which band forms the wholecf the perineum of the female, and the part of the perineal integument in the male which is situated behind the scrotum. Of the two apertures the dorsal one or anus is of small size, and is surrounded by a small circular integumental ridge ; the anterior or urogenital aperture forms a Fig. 155.—Development of the external sexual ORGANS IN THE MALE AND FEMALE FROM THE INDIFFERENT TYPE. (Ecker.) A, the external sexual organs in an embryo of about nine weeks, in which external sexual distinction is not yet established, and the cloaca still exists ; B, the same in an embryo somewhat more advanced, and in which, without marked sexual distinction, the anus is now separated from the urogenital aperture ; C, the same in an embryo of about ten weeks, showing the female type ; D, the same in a male embryo somewhat more advanced. Throughout the figures the following indications are employed ; pc, sexual eminence (penis or clitoris) ; to the right of these letters in A, the umbilical cord ; p, penis ; c, clitoris ; cl, cloaca ; ug, urogenital open- ing ; a, anus ; Is, cutaneous elevation which becomes labium or scrotum ; l, labium ; s, scrotum ; co, caudal or coccygeal elevation. narrow vertical slit wider behind than before, and running forward as a furrow into the rudiment of the penis, or clitoris. The well marked eminence in the integument which forms this rudiment, at first indifferent in the two sexes, is surrounded by a deep circular fold of the integument which encompasses its base, and which is the foundation of the mons veneris and labia majora in the female, and when united by median fusion, of the scrotum in the male. The lips of the urogenital furrow, which in the female are converted into the nymphte, and in the male unite as the integument below the penis, are both at first precisely the same in all embryoes. In the open condition, which continues until the eleventh or twelfth week, the parts appear alike in both sexes, and resemble the more advanced female organs. The rudiments of Bartholin's or Cou'per's glands appear at an early period as involutions of epithelium, near the root of the rudimentary clitoris or penis, on each side of the genito-urinary passage. In the female, the outer circular fold of integument enlarges at the sides so as to cover the clitoris as the labia majora. The clitoris itself remains relatively small, and the groove on its under surface becomes less and less marked, owing to the opening out, and subsequent extension backwards, of its margins to form the nymphee. The vascular bulbs, sunk more deeply in the tissues than in the male organ, remain distinct and separate, except at one point where they run together in the glans clitoridis. The hymen begins to appear about the fifth month as a fold of the lining membrane at the opening of the genital passage into the urogenital sinus. "Within the vestibule, which is the shortened but widened remains of the urogenital sinus, the urethral orifice is seen, the urethra itself undergoing considerable elongation. In the male, on the contrary, the penis continues to enlarge, and the margins of the groove along its under surface gradually unite from the primitive urethral orifice behind, as far forwards as the glans, so as to complete the long canal of the male ■urethra, which is therefore a prolongation of the urogenital sinus. This is accom- plished about the fifteenth week. When the union remains incomplete, the abnormal