DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL CORD. 50 spongioblasts. This may be taken to represent the white matter of the cord at this stage (all the rest representing grey substance) ; but there arc at first no nerve fibres in it, the only structures which can be at all compared to nerve fibres being the prolongations of the neuroblasts, and these lie either as arcuate fibres altogether in the outer part of the grey substance, or are passing out of the cord as the beginnings of the anterior roots from a mass of neuroblasts which forms the rudiment of the anterior cornu of grey matter (fig. 65). This mass constitutes in the human embryo of six weeks (fig. G6) the chief portion of each half of the cord. It forms a con- siderable projection which laterally almost reaches the surface, but ventrally is sepa- rated from it by a thickening of the external or radial zone, due to the appearance of longitudinally coursing nerve fibres within it: this is the beginning of the anterior Fig. 65.—Section of spinal cord of four weeks human embryo (His). The posterior roots are continued within the cord into a small longitudinal bundle which is the rudiment of the posterior white column. The anterior roots are formed by the convergence of the processes of the neuroblasts. The latter, along with the elongated cells of the myelospongium compose the grey matter. The external layer of the cord is traversed by radiating fibres which are the outer ends of the spongioblasts. The anterior commissure is beginning to appear. This figure is much more magnified than the next one. Fig. 66.—Transverse section of the cervical part of the spinal cord of a human embryo of six weeks (from Kolliker). c, central canal ; c, its epithelial lining ; at c' (superiorly), the original place of closure of the canal; a, the white substance of the anterior columns ; g, grey substance of antero-lateral horn ; p, posterior column ; ar, anterior roots ; pr, posterior roots. white column (a). By this time, also, although to a rather less extent, the posterior white columns have, simultaneously with the posterior roots, begun to make their appearance on either side of the narrow dorsal part of the neural canal (p). There is, however, only a relatively thin layer of grey matter (neuroblasts) separating the posterior white columns from the palisade-like lining of the canal, and as yet no sign of nerve fibres in the situation of the lateral columns, which are only repre- sented by a thin layer of the radial myelospongium. The roof and floor of the canal are also quite thin and undeveloped. At this period there is still no sign of either anterior or posterior (dorsal or ventral) fissures of the cord. These become formed as the cornua of the grey matter grow out from the central mass, and as the anterior and posterior white columns