88 DEVELOPMENT OP THE EYE. this epithelium. Into this homogeneous layer mesoblast cells pass from the margin greatly thickening it and producing eventually the regular layers of fibrous tissue’ which are characteristic of the cornea. No cells pass into the most anterior or into the most posterior stratum, which remain homogeneous (anterior and posterior Fig. 103. — Horizontal section THROUGH THE EYE ON AN EMBRYO RABBIT OP 18 DAYS. f. (Kol- liker.) o, optic nerve ; p, hexagonal pig- ment layer; r, retina ; re, ciliary part of the retina ; p', forepart of the optic cup (rudiment of the iris pig- ment) ; (j, vitreous, shrunk away from the retina, except where the vessels from the arteria centralis retina; enter it; i, iris ; mp, membrana pupillaris ; c, cornea with epithelium e; pp, pa, palpebraj; l, lens; l', lens epitlie- lium ; /, sclerotic; m, recti muscles. homogeneous larnelke of Bow- man). The epithelium of the posterior homogeneous lamella, or membrane of Descemet, is derived from mesoblast cells which grow in like the cor- neal corpuscles from the mar- gin and spread themselves over the posterior surface of the cornea, thus separating this from the iris and anterior surface of the lens. For a long while, however, there is no anterior chamber; this eventually appears as a (left-like space between the cornea and the structures immediately behind it. In mammals, all the above stages of formation have not been described. A complete layer of mesoblast is early visible lying between the corneal epiblast and the lens epiblast, aud continuous around the margin of the lens with the mesoblast of the vitreous chamber. In this mesoblast a cleft makes its appearance, separating it into two parts, one of which adheres to the corneal epiblast, where it forms the substance of the cornea, the other to the lens capsule forming the pupillary membrane. This cleft is the rudiment of the anterior chamber. It does not become actually distended with fluid until a short time before birth (Ivolliker). The sclerotic is formed entirely from mesoblast around the optic cup, probably continuous with that which forms the cornea, although it is only later that the cornea and sclerotic come to be completely amalgamated. The choroid coat is formed from the mesoblast which is immediately in contact with the outer layer of the optic cup, and the forward growth of the middle tunic closely follows that of the margin of the cup. The latter ceases at first at the margin of the leus, but subsequently grows forwards over the front of the lens as a thin double layer, which is closely covered externally with a continuation of the choroidal mesoblast. This is the iris, over the back of which both the layers of the cup-margin eventually acquire pigment and remain permanently as the uvea. The ciliary body is formed by a kind of hypertrophy of the optic cup, which developes radial folds, enclosing thin portions of mesoblastic choroidal tissue, in which, as in the rest of the choroid, numerous blood-vessels and branched pigment-cells become formed.