DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. 142 orifices ; (2) from the endo-cardial aortic septum, which divides the bulb into aorta and pulmonary artery. Thus the septum of the ventricles is completed by endo- cardial connective tissue, a fact which is indicated even in the adult heart by the existence of the thin septum membranaceum which forms the uppermost part of the inter-ventricular septum. The common auricle in the meantime becomes shifted relatively upwards over the back of the ventricles, carrying the sinus along with it, but it still lies behind rather than over the ventricles, and the aperture of communication passes from behind forwards, from the left part of the auricle into the corresponding half of the ventricle. This constricted aperture soon becomes elongated into a short canal, which is known as the auricular canal. Its orifice into the ventricle is from the first somewhat flattened, and bounded by two lips, an upper and a lower. As deve- lopment proceeds, it broadens out towards the median plane of the ventricular tube, and becomes gradually shifted, first towards, and eventually over the line of constric- tion which marks off the future right and left ventricles from one another (fig. 172). The ventricular septum has by this time extended almost up to the transversely elongated slit-like orifice, and its lips, still upper and lower in relative position, become greatly thickened by the formation of cushions of endopardium, which grow towards one another in the middle of the slit, and presently fuse into a median thickening which converts the single W-shaped aperture into two triangular openings, leading one into each ventricle (fig. 172, C). Meanwhile, the septum of the ventricles growing towards the base abuts against, and at length comes into direct continuity with the fused endocardial cushions, but this connection is nearer to the right than to the left auriculo-ventricular aperture.2 There is still, as above stated, a small orifice of direct communication between the left and right ventricles above the free edge of the ventricular septum, and this is not closed until the descent of the septum of the bulb, and its union with the septum of the ventricles, completes the interventricular septum. The above account of the division of the auricular canal is based upon that given by Born for the rabbit, and in some respects differs from the description which was given by His from an examination of human embryoes. According to His, the endo- cardial cushions, which by their union subdivide the auricular canal, are preceded by and connected with a growth of endocardial tissue, which springs from the posterior auricular wall, and they together form a septal prolongation (septum intermedium), which projects like a stopper into the auricular canal, and divides the latter into the two auriculo-ventricular orifices, and also grows down beyond that canal to meet the uprising ventricular septum (fig. 173). The shortening of this canal is in part effected by a kind of intussusception which takes place, and which causes its wall to be folded into the ventricular cavity; these folds, with probably some thickening of endocardium, form the bases of the lateral flaps of the auriculo-ventricular valves (fig. 175). The bases of the mesial or septal flaps are formed by a downward growth of°the edges of the endocardial septum between the two orifices. Both lateral and mesial flaps become continuous with the spongy muscular substance which at this time occupies most of the cavity of the ventricles (fig. 175). As development proceeds, the flaps, which are at first thick and soft, become thin and membranous, and become free from muscular substance except near their free edges. These muscular bands become tendinous near their insertion into the valves, and thus form the chorda tendinecc; the parts which are not thus transformed become the papillary muscles. The septum of the auricles appears at the upper and back part of the auricular 2 Hence the right auriculo-ventricular orifice lies close to the ventricular septum, but tho left orifice is separated from it by an interval, into which tho root of the aorta becomes continued (Lorn).