V by a scratch or a stop the termination has been written out; and for the sake of clearness capital initials, which are sometimes absent in the manuscript, have been given in the transcript to all proper' names. A few, for the most part illegible, additions in red ink are hardly visible in the autotype and have been omitted in the transcript. Erased words in the manuscript are indicated by inverted commas in the transcript. The use of small type on some pages and large type on others is due to the necessity of printing every page of the transcript opposite the corre- sponding page of the autotype. The object of the publication was to preserve and make public the original notes of the lectures in which Harvey, in 1616, set forth for the first time his dis- covery of the circulation. He describes the course of the blood precisely, and lays stress upon the important evidence afforded by the valves in the veins, and the direction in which they act. The notes are of course incomplete, and cannot be expected to add to the well-known statement of the discovery which Harvey made in full, and after several years more of thought and observation, in 1628, in his “ Exercitatio anatomica de motu cordis et sanguinis in animalibus,” published at Frankfort. The manuscript is to be regarded with veneration as one of the most precious of the archives of English science, and as showing how early Harvey had begun to penetrate the difficulty of explaining the motion of the blood, and how long his active mind was willing to enlarge and confirm its first thoughts before he gave final expression to them and published the splendid discovery of the circulation of the blood, matured and completed by twelve years of observation and meditation. Besides this chief and greatest value, these rough notes of Harvey have a lesser interest, because, unpolished and unaltered just as they came from his pen, as if he felt the force of the often-quoted line of Manilius, Omari res ipsa negat, contenta doceri, they illustrate his ways of thought and his habits of observation. He is to be seen in his library perusing at his table the huge and nobly printed pages of Vesalius, or sitting in his chair with the terse and easily carried anatomy of Bauhin in his hand, or dipping into Aristotle or into the sermons of St. Augustine, or refreshing his memory of some passage in the familiar pages of Columbus and of Fallopius, or turning perhaps as he walked under the trees to some passage in