IV committee presented their report on April 30, 1885, and its consideration was postponed to the next meeting. On May 28, 1885, the report of the committee, recommending that the College guarantee the cost of one hundred copies at 2I. 2s. each, and that a permanent committee be appointed to superintend the publication, was adopted, and the committee was reappointed to arrange and supervise the publication. Messrs. J. and A. Churchill, on the representation of the subject to them by Sir Edward Sieveking, undertook, with laudable public spirit, the remaining risk of publication, and the undertaking was further supported by a subscription from the Royal College of Surgeons of England and by several private subscribers. Messrs. Churchill, on the recommendation of Sir Edward Sieveking, employed Mr. Edward Scott, of the Manuscript Department of the British Museum, to make a transcript of the whole, a work of great labour owing to the extreme obscurity of many pages of Harvey’s writing, and which Mr. Scott accomplished in a manner and in a space of time which deserve the highest commendation. The generous way in which Mr. Maunde Thompson, chief of the Manuscript Department, gave his invaluable aid in deciphering the most obscure lines has added much to the value of the transcript. The transcript is accompanied by an autotype reproduction of every page of the manuscript. Dr. George Johnson acted as chairman of the committee of the Royal College of Physicians, and the other members shared among them the several parts of the work—viz. the examination and approval of each autotype plate as it was issued, the comparison of every word of the printed transcript with the original writing of Harvey as shown in the autotype, and the revision of the proofs. Several passages still remain obscure, but, as the reader has before him every stroke as it was made by Harvey’s pen, the editors did not feel it necessary to delay the publication to the extent which would have been necessary if a minute study of all known writing of Harvey had been made, by which alone further interpretation would have been possible. The rule followed in the transcript has been to print the words as written by Harvey without any emendation, however obvious or probable. His Latin cases are often wrong ; sometimes by a slip of the pen he spells the names of well-known Latin authors in several ways ; he often omits or repeats a word. All these points are exhibited in the transcript; but where Harvey marked a flexional termination