VI his favourite Virgil. It is easy to trace in the quotations given in these lectures his whole anatomical reading, and part of his acquirements in general literature. It was from Aristotle, he says, that he obtained his first direction to the true explanation of the movements of the heart, and he quotes the father of science more often than any other author. Galen comes next in order of frequency of quotation ; while of the moderns, Vesalius, Columbus, Fallopius, Fernelius, Laurentius, Nicholaus Massa, Bauhin, and Piccolhomini are the writers whose opinions he most often discusses. In classical literature he had read Plautus as well as Virgil and Horace; while among prose authors, besides Ciesar and Cicero, he had studied Vitruvius. He was learned in the Scriptures, and knew something of the Latin fathers. That he was a student of Nature as well as of books, and a daily devoted observer of everything that came before him, is clearly shown in these notes. He had already been physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hos- pital for seven years, and he quotes cases observed in its wards, and also mentions many patients seen in his private practice : Sir William Rigden, Sir Robert Wrath, Sir James Crosby, John Bracey, Mrs. Yeoung, Lady Croft, Lady Hervey, his own father, and his sister who, like Mrs. Yeoung, had an enlarged spleen which weighed five pounds. He had watched the bear tied to the stake, and cocks in their pit, and greyhounds and falcons, and noted the odd development of a boy at Holborn bridge, and of a man behind Covent garden, and the appearances in a criminal just cut down from the gallows. Pie had dissected many animals of all kinds, and refers to the anatomy of more than eighty. The anatomical Structure of the porpoise, the kite, the angler fish, the woodpecker, the barbel, the flounder, the pastinaca, and of the chief English mammals and birds, formed part of his acquirements. Several he had examined often, and was sometimes puzzled, as in the eft, the kidneys of which he failed to discover. Some of his biographers have suggested that Harvey, however remarkable as a discoverer in physiology, was not great as a physician. This may be disbelieved, for it is certain that the powers of so careful an observer would not desert him at the bedside. These lectures contain many examples of acute clinical observation ; he compares the desquamation after scarlet fever to the shaking off of the feather scales of a bird in the royal menagerie then kept at St. James’s. He did not, it is true, discover amyloid infiltration of the liver, but he had noted that the liver was sometimes greatly enlarged in those who died after long-continued suppuration, and he had observed the shrunken