1 H I K U t i i i u i * MAUDE EARLE •viV' #€ Mi $ \\CHARLES GRIFFIN & CO., LTD., PUBLISHERS Fifth Edition, Revised. Handsome Cloth. Price 5s. THE WIFE AND MOTHER: A Medical Guide to Care of her Health and Management of Children. By ALBERT WESTLAND, M.A., M.D., CAI. “ The best book I can recommend. ... It is a most yaldaulk work, written with discretion and refinement.”—Hearth and Home. In Crown 8vo. Cloth. With nearly 200 pp. Price 2s. 6d. net. THE CHILD : A Medical Guide to its Care and Management. By ALBERT WESTLAND. Being Part III. of Dr. Westland’s book, The Wife and Alother, issued separately in response to many requests, with additions to the Section upon Physical Exercises. Thietv-Second Price 3s. 6d. A MANUA By I “ In the fulles Manuals.”—Briti THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Surgical. s. all previous Fourth Editic LEEDS Price 4s. “ The direetic ntly taken as ice 3s. Gd. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Life. Classmark: OOOtf# A EA/v RGERY. M.D. M.D. 010 05 9846 and Oatette. Herald. QTR&Nh _ IE : BOOKSHOP ID1SH STREET WIM 7RP AND Oi-935 0896s&Uenburgs Foods A physiologically progressive dietary for infants. \tLEN & HANBURYS have perfected the following series of Foods whereby an infant mav be reared by hand from birth until the age of one year ... No oUrelluch scientific method exists, and these Foods possess the great advanfcps Of beii,“ absolutely pure, sterile, and will not give rise to diarrhoea and digestive troubles, as is often the case when cow's milk is given. In all climates and under all conditions wmthe addition of pure water only, it is now possible to rear an infant m health and safety. The “Allenburys” Milk Food, No. 1 (For use from Birth to Three Months) s a dry powder prepared from pure cow s milk at their iactory in the country. 1 lie ex if casein has been removed and the deficiency in cream and milk sugar made good. A\ urcpil with wafer in the proportions given in the directions for use, a pure sterile liur excess When mixed with wa'ter in the proportions given in the directions for use, a pure sterile human- ised milk obtained. This Food should be used for the first three months of infant life. The “Allenburys” Milk Food, No. 2 (For use from Three to Six Months) To meet the increasing digestive capabilities of the infant No. 2 Food is now substi- tuted It contains, in addition to the humanised milk powder, maltose and phosphates, etc., which are necessary to the building of the frame. There is no undigested starch present, which at this stage the child would he unable to assimilate. These Foods may lie with advantage used in conjunction with the natural feeding, when the milk is scanty or poor. With no other substitute is this possible, as the dis- agreement between the artificial and natural foods usually produces sickness, and the child at once falls off. The “ Lancet” writes: Mere dilution of cow’s milk cannot, therefore, afford a perfect substitute for the milk of the mother. The satisfactory solution of the problem can only be attempted when t lie difference in the amounts of constituents in cow’s and human milk are first taken into account, and then by adopting a process which it is cal- culated will remove these differences, or, at any rate, reduce them to insignificant proportions. Not only does it seem to us that Ibis is exactly what Messrs. .VLI.KN & IliNM RYS have succeeded in doing, but what makes the product still more valuable and convenient is that it is in the form of dry powder and is sterilised. Not less satisfactory is the taste of these preparations which is agreeably sweet and malty. We regard the introduction of both Foods as a progressive step in infant dietaries of considerable importance and value.” The “Allenburys” Malted Food, No. 3 (For use from Six Months and upwards) is not, like the above, a milk food, but a pure and perfect farinaceous food. It is prepared by digesting with liquid extract of malt the starch of fine cooked wheaten flour. The whole of the starch is not, however, digested, in order that the now developing digestive powers of the infant may have something to work upon, and not degenerate from disuse. An entire starch diet as is so often given will overtax the digestive powers and produce wasting and illness. At first it is better in mixing this Food not to employ cow’s milk, but rather the No. 1, which is equivalent to human. Later, about the eighth month, cow’s milk may be used. In travelling, in hot climates, and in all places where the milk supply is of doubtful purity, it is far safer and better to usethe “ALLENBURYS” MILK FOODS. A Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free. SOLE MANUFACTURERS: ALLEN & HANBURYS, LTD., PLOUGH COURT, LOMBARD STREET, LONDON, E.C.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.(S:g/detaife/b21528949SICKROOM COOKERY / AND HOSPITAL DIET, WITH SPECIAL RECIPES FOR CONVALESCENT AND DIABETIC PATIENTS, BY MAUDE EARLE, XL/ Stajf Tear,her of the National Training Sehool of Cookery, London ; Lecturer on Sickroom, Cookery at the London Hospital, Brompton Hospital for Consumption, Royal British Nurses’ Association, The Queen’s Jubilee Nurses, etc, WITH NOTES ON THE FEEDING OF INFANTS BY FRANK C. MADDEN, F.R.C.S., {Medical Superintendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street.) LONDON: SPOTTISWOODE & CO. LTD., NEW-STREET SQUARE 1910Ly W-69V. UNiVEKSiry LIBRARY LEDSPREFACE This book has been compiled in the hope that it may prove useful to all professionally engaged in Nursing, and to those who have to direct the preparation of food for the sick or convalescent. The recipes are given in the simplest and most tempting form, and, wherever possible, the nutritive value and specific use have been mentioned. A chapter on Diet has been included for the help of those not well acquainted with the value of foods. Strictly speaking, the number of dishes used during an acute attack of illness is small; but for many convalescents, for those suffering from Consumption, Gout, or Diabetes, the diet may be very varied and dainty. Many of the recipes are adapted from those in use at the National Training School of CookeryPREFACE. IV (Mrs. Charles Clarke) and have been elaborated in various ways to suit the particular case. To the works of Sir Henry Thompson, Drs. Pavy, Cheadle, Burney Yeo, Muskett, Mrs. Hart, and many others, I must here express my indebtedness. In various parts of the book, and especially in the sections on diet and foods, I have received much valuable help from Mr. Frank C. Madden, F.R.C.S., Medical Superintendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, who has also con- tributed a chapter on Infant Feeding, which I feel sure will be of much value to all who have the control of the occupants of the nursery. In conclusion, I trust my contribution to this some- what neglected branch of cookery may be acceptable to all whose duty it is to provide the necessaries of life for the sick and helpless. Maude Earle.SICKROOM COOKERY AND HOSPITAL DIET. CHAPTER I. (I) CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. (II) FOOD VALUES. It would not be appropriate, or of value here, to enter into the origin or nature of foods, except as they directly bear on tbe sustenance and repair of tlie human body. From this point of view the various foods will be shortly enumerated and classified, to indicate the manner in which their work is done. It will also be necessary to consider briefly the essentials of an average man’s diet in health, and the chemical constituents of the various “ food stuffs,” in order to indicate the parts these substances play in the body, after being subjected to the action of the different digestive juices. In the body certain elements are found—carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, as well as phosphorus and sulphur in small amount. These elements, in the constant process of change occurring in the body, become trans- formed into heat and energy. This waste must be replaced by foods in which the same elements exist in varying proportions. BSICKROOM COOKERY. 2 Foods may be most conveniently considered as follows : I. —Albuminates (albumen containing) or Proteids, wbicb supply the stable nitrogen for tbe building up of the various structures of the body, i.e., “ flesh-forming ” food. II. —Carbohydrates (starches and sugars) which, with the Fats, supply the unstable carbon, the subsequent changes in which lead to the maintenance of the tempera- ture of the body (animal heat) and to the development of energy, which shows itself in the movements of the various organs of the body. III. —Fats and Oils—either a3 animal fat (fat of meat), or the various products of milk, cream, butter and cheese, or olive oil and other oils used in the various processes of cooking. The Fats, besides assisting the carbohydrates, serve an important purpose as “ albumen saving ” foods, a much smaller quantity of proteids being required if fats are judiciously mixed in the dietary. IY —Mineral Salts, mainly of soda, potash, calcium and magnesium, are also essentials—and are obtained chiefly from fresh vegetables—in milk, and in various fluids taken as food, as well as in smaller quantities in meat and the carbohydrates. Y.—Water is taken as such, or in other fluids, and also in varying proportion in all the food stuffs. The necessary oxygen is absorbed by the body in the process of respiration. The albuminates are characterised by the presence of the element nitrogen, which is an essential of all theSICKROOM COOKERY. 3 living tissues of tlie body. White of egg, consisting almost entirely of albumen, may be taken as a type of the proteids, which also form the major part of all meats. They are present also in less amount in milk (casein), in bread (gluten), and in considerable amount in certain vegetables (legumin), as in peas, beans, and lentils. The carbohydrates are found in foods mainly derived from vegetable sources, especially grain foods, as from wheat, rice, barley, oats, arrowroot, Indian corn (corn flour), and also in vegetables like the potato, and in the form of sugar in many fruits and vegetables. It must be remembered that sugar as such, in milk and in various combinations, is an important variety of the carbohydrates. The fats are derived from the fats of meat and fish, from milk, cream, butter and cheese, and from oils used in various ways in the preparation of food. It will be seen that the necessary compounds of the body are found in the ordinary daily foods, and that by a judicious selection a diet supplying all needs is secured. A complete or perfect food contains in itself all the elements of which the body is composed. Milk may be taken as the type of a perfect food, containing as it does proteid (casein), carbohydrates (sugar of milk), fat (cream), salts (calcium and others), and water. The essentials for a perfect diet are therefore proteid, carbohydrates, fat, water, and salts. (1.) These essentials must be present in the diet in proper amount and proportion. (2.) The diet must be adapted to climate, age, sex of individual, and to the amount of woi-k to be done. (3.) The essentials of diet must be present in a digestible form.4 SICKROOM COOKERY. Proteid alone can support life, but, by the addition of carbohydrates and fat, a far smaller quantity is required, thus forming a diet more wholesome and more economical. As to the digestion of the food stuffs it may be said, briefly, albuminous food becomes albumoses and peptones, and is absorbed as such; starches are converted into sugars of different forms, and fats are variously split up before becoming absorbed. II.—FOOD VALUES. Meats.—All meats are highly nitrogenous, and supply flesh-forming material. They contain the same elements as the human body, and are, therefore, valuable as a food. The various joints of the same animal vary as to nutritive value, some being richer in albumen, others containing more gelatine, or fat. Beef and Mutton are both very nutritious, hut mutton is easier of digestion. Yeal being the flesh of an imma- ture animal is deficient in nutriment, and also less easy of digestion. Pork is also close in texture, indigestible, and quite unsuitable for an invalid. Salt Meats generally lose some of their nutriment, and are also less easy of digestion. Poultry and game belong to the nitrogenous foods, and are very digestible on account of their short fibre and absence of fat. Fish also belongs to the nitrogenous foods, and is very nutritious, although in a less degree than meat or poultry. At the same time, it is lighter and easier of digestiou, and in this way is a valuable food for the convalescent, or for5 SICKROOM COOKERY. those leading sedentary lives and unable to take much exercise. There is a popular fallacy that fish feeds the brain. This is quite erroneous. There is no particular constituent supplied by fish to the brain; at the same time, it is particularly suitable to brain workers and all those debarred from much exercise, being free from excess of fat, light, nourishing, and easy of digestion. Eggs are a very valuable food, containing all that is necessary for life in a most concentrated form. They contain much albumen, and a certain proportion of mineral matter and fat. The yolk of an egg is richer than the white. Eggs are easily digested when raw, but become insol able when overcooked or hard-boiled. Both yolk and white of egg are most useful as sickroom bever- ages, combined with brandy, cream, or milk, and given as a stimulant between the times for more solid food. Milk is a perfect food, containing in itself all that is needed for the support of life. It supplies all that is necessary for children, or for people during periods of illness or inactivity. When hard work has to be done generally something supplying more solid bulk is needed. Milk contains a considerable proportion of casein (the albuminate in milk), milk fat, milk sugar, mineral salts, and water. Unfortunately, milk is extremely susceptible to con- tamination, thus conveying the germs of typhoid, scarlet fever, and other diseases. The fact that the milk cans have to be washed with water is quite sufficient, provided the water has been contaminated with sewage. All water for scouring milk cans should be boiled, thus materially lessening the risk. Milk, too, in times of epidemic should be boiled. This destroys any germs, renders the milk- harmless, and at the same time more digestible.6 SICKROOM COOKERY. The casein of milk, from the contact with the acid juices in the stomach, often sets into hard thick curds, very difficult of digestion. By boiling the milk before use, the casein is divided into fine flakes, and cannot afterwards form curds. The addition of barley water, or an alkaline water, such as soda water, to the milk has the same effect. Cream contains most of the milk fat, a fair proportion of the casein, with a small proportion of sugar and mineral matters. Skim Milk is a light, digestible food. It is naturally deficient in milk fat, but contains a large proportion of milk sugar, and mineral matters. It is light, nutritious, and by the addition of a small pat of butter is excellent for milk puddings. Whey is a very nutritious and digestible food. It is easily made from milk by the addition of an acid when boiling. Sherry, lemon juice, or butter milk will do this. It should be strained through muslin and the whey served. The curds are exceedingly indigestible. The whey contains about one-fourth of this nitrogenous matter, some of the mineral matter, and all the sugar. The curds contain much of the casein and milk fat. Junket is easily made by heating a pint of milk to 98° Fah., adding a teaspoonful of sugar and a measureful of junket powder or essence of rennet (see Index, “Junket ”). It must then stand without being moved, until set into a firm cream. This is an excellent food in fever -where it agi’ees, or in convalescence. Butter is a product of cream or milk. It consists largely of milk fat in a very digestible form.SICKROOM COOKERY. 7 Cheese is manufactured from cream or milk. By the addition of an acid, the casein and milk fat are separated from the liquid into thick curd. By further processes it is converted into cheese. Thus cheese is highly nutritious, but decidedly difficult of digestion, and therefore unsuit- able for an invalid or for those leading sedentary lives. During hard out-door work or periods of much activity and fatigue it is an excellent and nutritious food. Flour is obtained from wheat. This is the only cereal which contains the albuminoid gluten, which possesses the valuable property of being able to raise a sponge. The second quality, or household flour, is the most nutritious, and for the following reason. The wheat grain has six coats or coverings. The centre is almost pure starch, and very white. The outer coats are rich in flesh and bone- forming material, although slightly yellow in colour. For the finest flour the miller cuts away the outer coatings, and mills up the centre, thus producing a very white, light flour. This is excellent for fancy rolls, but should not be used for household bread. For the second quality this process cannot be afforded, and several of the outer coats are milled up as well, thus giving a much more nutritious flour, although not so white in colour. Arrowroot and Cornflour are forms of almost pure starch and belong to the heat-giving force-producing foods. They are best combined with foods rich in flesh- forming substances, such as milk and eggs. Rice, Sago and Tapioca are also largely composed of starch, and are better combined with nitrogenous foods, such as milk, eggs, and if suitable a little butter. Macaroni.—This food is made from the rich, hard, hiehly nitrogenous wheats of Southern Europe. It is8 SICKROOM COOKERY. rich in nutriment, and, for the same reason as in flour, tho second or cheaper quality, although less white, contains more nourishment. Oatmeal is a very nutritions article of food. It is rich in both bone and flesh-forming material. It is generally used in the form of porridge, oat cake, or gruel. Sugar belongs to the group of heat-giving, force-pro- ducing foods. It is found in sugar cane, beetroot, in fruits, and in some vegetables. Potatoes contain a large proportion of starch, but are rather deficient in flesh-forming matter and in fat. They are therefore better combined with meats, or with foods of a nitrogenous character. Green Vegetables are more valuable for their mineral matter and potash salts than for any real nutriment they may contain. Pruits.—Fresh fruits also, for the same reason, are valuable as a food. Pulse.—Peas, haricot beans and lentils come under this classification. Pulse is extremely rich in flesh-forming material, but deficient in starch and fat. Legumin, the albuminoid in pulse, is rather difficult of digestion. These foods require long, slow cooking, and are excellent in the form of soup. Alcohol is both a useful and valuable food from its restorative and stimulating properties. It is most valuable as a drug in cases of collapse or sudden shock. It is best taken as a restorative after work. In all cases when work, great fatigue or physical exertion is to bo undertaken alcohol in all forms should be avoided asD SICKROOM COOKERY. it induces a feeling of fatigue and a distaste for exer- tion of any kind. When taken in small quantities at meals, it often stimulates the appetite and helps digestion. Water is the great carrier of nutrition to the body. It is a most important food, and without it none of the functions of the body could be carried on. It is of the first importance that water should be whole- some and pure. Unfortunately water is most liable to contamination from sewage matter. Decaying animal matter, leaky wells and imperfect drainage are all fruitful sources of contamination, and in this way the germs of typhoid, cholera and other diseases are disseminated. Every precaution should be taken to render the water harmless. Small' reliance can be placed on filters, as even the best filtering material quickly becomes contaminated, and requires constant cleansing. In times of epidemic, in towns or countries where the drainage and sanitary arrangements are defective, there is but one course open—the water must be boiled. This destroys the germs and renders the water harmless. At the same time, by boiling, the water becomes flat and insipid. This may be remedied by the addition of a little lemon juice or lemonade made with the boiled water, or it can be used as tea, coffee, or cocoa. Gelatine.—If bones or other gelatinous matters are subjected to long boiling, gelatine is obtained. The exact value of gelatine is not known. It is very easily digested in the body. Gelatine cannot replace the albuminous foods in the repair of the tissues, but is an “ albumen-sparing ” food. “ By the administration of gelatine very large quantities of albumen can be spared in the body or devoted to increase of bulk.” (Bauer.) Gelatine is most useful in sickroom cookery, as jellies10 SICKROOM COOKERY. are generally well borne, easily digested, and tempt tbe appetite. Food may in this way be presented in an attractive form to tbe patient. Tea is a valuable beverage, although it contains but little nutriment. It stimulates and restores the nervous system, and also increases the activity of the brain. The stimulating and exhilarating effects of tea often enable great fatigue to be undertaken, and prevent the feeling of exhaustion during periods of sustained exertion. Tea owes its stimulating properties to the presence of its active principle theine, and its powers of enduring fatigue to the tannin. Tea slightly delays digestion, and should not be taken with solid meals of meat. Coffee is also decidedly stimulating to the nervous system, and owes this property to its active principle caffeine. Like tea, it also retards digestion. Cocoa is less stimulating, but far more nutritions than either tea or coffee. It contains a considerable proportion of fat. The active principle is theobromine. Un- thickened cocoas are best. Those containing starch as a thickening require to be well boiled to cook them, and are not so pleasant in flavour.SICKROOM COOKERY. 11 CHAPTER II. (I) EFFECTS OF COOKING. (II) METHODS OF COOKING. (I.) —Effects of cooking on the food stuffs (adapted from Halliburton). The object aimed at in cooking is to render food more digestible, and, what is most important, more palatable. (1.) Cooking destroys all germs and parasites, so preventing risk of infection from disease. (2.) With vegetable foods it breaks up the starck grains, bursting the thick outer coating of cellulose, and so allowing the digestive juices to come in contact with the granulose within; it also to some extent converts starch into dextrose, in which form carbohydrates are absorbed. (3.) With animal foods, it converts the insoluble connective tissue (collagen) into soluble gelatine, thus also allowing the fibres of the meat to be more accessible to the digestive juices. (4.) Produces various aromatic substances which more or less tend to aid digestion. (5.) On fats, the effect is to dissolve the fatty envelopes and set the fat free, when it can be moro easily acted on by the digestive juices. Thus it will be seen the general effect of cooking is to render the food stuffs more wholesome and digestible, and at the same time more pleasant to the sight and taste.SICKROOM COOKERY. 12 II.—METHODS OF COOKING. Tlie different methods of cooking must be briefly con- sidered here : Roasting is one of the most excellent and wholesome methods of cooking meat, and develops aromatic flavours which cannot otherwise be produced. At the same time there is little loss. The meat is placed close to the fire for a few minutes at first, in order to seal up the outside and cover it with a coagulated coating of albumen. This keeps in the juices of the meat, and lets little escape hut the dripping (fat). It is then removed a little from the fire and cooked at a lower degree of heat, being well basted all the time. This prevents waste by shrinkage, and keeps the meat mellow and tender. Any meat juice which escapes coagulates and forms the basis of the gravy. Baking.—Meat can be well cooked in the oven, although it can never lay claim to the aromatic flavour of meat roasted before an open fire. There is also rather less shrinkage, .and less fuel is required. It is necessary, however, to see that the oven is properly ventilated, and that a proper baking tin is used. This consists of a double tin, water being placed in the lower part which prevents the dripping from burning and giving off un- wholesome odours. The tin is further provided with a grid on which the meat rests, thus preventing unnecessary contact with the dripping. Boiling.—This is a most convenient and simple method of cooking. The principle is the same as applied to roast- ing. The meat must be put into boiling water and cooked for five minutes, to coagulate the albumen and form a coating to keep in the juices of the meat. It should then be simmered below boiling point until tender. In this way a light digestible food is secured. At the same time,13 SICKROOM COOKERY. there is more loss of nutritive constituents than in roast- ing, unless both the meat and the broth, in which it is cooked be consumed, as certain constituents from the meat and soluble gelatine pass into the broth. Stewing is the most economical method of cooking meat. Much nutriment passes into the gravy, but as both the meat, gravy, and vegetables are consumed there is no loss. By long, slow stewing the fibres are softened, and even tough meat or poultry can be rendered tender. The loss is also less than in roasting or boiling. By careful removal of all grease, a well-flavoured, digestible dish is secured. It is neglect of this important point which renders stews objectionable. Braising.—This is an excellent modeof cooking, and there is little loss of nutritive constituents. A small bank or foundation of vegetables is placed in a saucepan, with just enough stock to cover. The meat or poultry to be braised is placed on top, the saucepan covered closely, and the food gently steamed in this manner. The meat thus becomes thoroughly flavoured with the vegetables, and by slow cooking is rendered tender and digestible. Broiling and Grilling.—This method is most suitable for small portions of meat, and has much the same effect and value as roasting. It is the most perfect way for chops and steaks, as the outside is quickly sealed up, and the meat remains full of juice and is free from excess of dripping. Frying, as generally understood, on a flat pan, is much to be condemned. It spoils the flavour of the meat, renders it hard, and often indigestible, from the excess of dripping in which it is cooked. Deep frying, as applied to fish, croquettes, etc., cooked in a protective coating and well drained, is most excellent, and supplies all needs demanded by the process.SICKROOM COOKERY. 14 CHAPTER III. DIET SCALES. It is difficult to lay down an exact diet scale in health, the -amount required being influenced so much by the work, age, and special surroundings. In disease the most easily digested foods must be selected, having regard to their respective nutritive values. In cases of serious illness the nourishment has to be conveyed in a liquid form, as in milk, beef tea, or raw egg. Beverages such as lemonade and barley water may be given to alleviate the thirst. Certain conditions requiring special diet scales may he here indicated. EEVER. In fever the waste of albuminous tissue is great, and therefore albuminous food in a liquid form must he generously supplied. Digestion in the stomach is at first impaired, and later may be suspended, therefore solid food must not be given. Beef tea in these circumstances is very useful, but in some cases it causes irritation, and has to be dis- continued. Milk is the food of the greatest value, but in all fevers great care must be taken to render it digestible. This can be done by the addition of barley water, which prevents it from forming irritating curds in the stomach, by the addition of soda water, by boiling, or by peptonisation. Junket is both tempting and nutritious, and in cases where it can be taken is a most useful food. Of course the diet varies according to the individual case, and to the fever treated, the indication being “ little and often.”15 SICKROOM COOKERY. Stimulants, given under medical direction, must be looked on as an important item in tlie diet. For Convalescents very light and easily digested foods, tempting jellies to stimulate the appetite, milk in various light puddings, and eggs, should be given. Milk jelly, egg jelly, beef tea, boiled fish, and, later on, a little chicken, sponge cake, or a light pudding, are all suitable in a gradually ascending- scale. Potatoes, pastry, steak, and solid meat must be care- fully avoided, as they are very indigestible. In most cases of convalescence the patient should have small quantities of light nourishing food administered often. As convalescence progresses, an increase as to quantity may be made, but, as the digestion is weak and little exercise is taken, in no case should a meal approaching that taken in ordinary health be given. A little light wine, or other form of alcohol, with meals is usually beneficial during convalescence. DIABETES. In Diabetes a special diet is needed. One of the func- tions of the livei’ is to convert the sugar into glycogen, which is stored up in the liver cells. In diabetes the liver cannot do its work properly, and the sugar passes in large quantities into the circulation. Therefore all food tending to supply sugar must be carefully cut out of the diet, and its place filled by others supplying the same needs under a different form. For this reason sugar and starch (which is turned into sugar during the process of digestion) must be carefully excluded from the dietary. The following foods are forbidden: Milk, sugar, flour, cornflour, oatmeal, rice, sago, macaroni and pulse. Fruits and certain vegetables, too, are forbiddenSICKROOM COOKERY. 1G on account of the starch or sugar they contain, such as potatoes, beetroot, carrots, peas, parsnips, broad beans and Spanish onions. The loss of the lieat-giving foods must be made up by a plentiful use of butter, cream, fat and oil. The following foods are all allowed to the diabetic: Meat of all kinds, game, poultry, fish, butter, cream, eggs, cheese, and certain vegetables. Saccharine may be used instead of sugar. At the same time, great care must be taken to render the foods digestible, as the digestion of a diabetic patient is generally very weak, though the appetite is often, enormous. Fish and meat pounded with eggs and cream are valuable in this dietary, as they are both light and nourishing. More definite particulars as to the prohibited foods and vege- tables are given in the portion specially devoted to diabetic cookeiy. The thirst is often intolerable. Strong malt liquors and strong wines are forbidden, but small quantities of light dry wine and weak unsweetened spirit may be given. Tea, coffee, and cocoa from the nibs may be taken, served with cream and saccharine if desired. GOUT. In Gout an excess of Uric Acid in the blood leads to a deposit of urate of soda in various parts of the body. The cause of gout is supposed to be the inability of the body to complete the oxidation of the albuminous food. In ordinary health albumen is changed into urea and is thus disposed of. In gout the body is unable to complete this change, and uric acid is produced, and ultimately' urate of soda may form chalk stones in the joints of those suffering from this disease. Albumen should be carefully eliminated fi’om the diet, as uric acid is generally formed from the imperfect oxidation of the17 SICKROOM COOKERY. albuminous foods. The quantity of food taken must also be restricted. “ Diminish the amount of animal food, and replace it with an equivalent quantity of approximate vegetable substances.” (Yeo.) A gouty patient will rarely submit to a strictly correct diet, but as far as possible the diet should consist of: Chicken, sole, white fish of all kinds, fish cakes, fish soups, vegetable soups and purees, green vegetables, potatoes and salads, milk puddings without eggs, fresh fruits, fruits stewed without sugar and sweetened with saccharine, junket, cream moulds, and as much milk and cream as desired, cocoa, weak tea, coffee, and plenty of water or mineral water. Dry wine may be taken sparingly; but all heavy sweet wines, beer, stout, porter, cider and malt liquors generally must be forbidden. It has been said “ nothing tinned, pickled, preserved, salted or smoked should be given.” The following foods must be taken sparingly: Beef, mutton, game, salmon, eggs, strong meat soups, cheese, pastry, thickened sauces, preserved fruits, pickles, tinned preparations of any kind, nuts, peas and beans. Starch and sugar are injui’ious to the gouty. Saccharine in small quantities may replace the sugar. In cases where much exercise is taken, a more generous diet may be indulged in. Plenty of fresh air and exercise tend to ward off gout. During an acute attack the patient is generally kept on fever diet, but at other times the regimen need not be too strictly enforced. INDIGESTION AND DYSPEPSIA. In perhaps few other conditions is dietary of more importance. C18 SICKROOM COOKERY. Digestion so changes the food, that it may he readily absorbed by the blood vessels in the walls of the stomach and intestine. The process of digestion is commenced in the mouth by the grinding of the teeth, while the saliva acts on the starch, turning it into sugar or maltose. Digestion proceeds in the stomach, where the pepsine of the gastric juices acts on the albuminous foods, turning them into soluble albumoses and peptones, which are readily absorbed and conveyed to the liver. The starchy foods are not acted on by the pepsine of the stomach. Digestion is completed in the small intestine, where the bile and pancreatic juices act on the fats which have not been affected by the saliva or gastric juices, and form an emulsion of minute globules which is absorbed by the lacteals of the intestine. Here such starch, also, as has not been converted into sugar by the saliva, is acted on by the pancreatic juices and turned into glucose, when it is easily absorbed. Insufficient mastication, excess of undigested starch in the stomach, deficient gastric juice to dissolve the albu- minous foods, excess of fat in the diet, or hurried meals, are all fruitful causes of indigestion. Also, many people have constitutional peculiarities rendering certain foods antipathetic, or impossible of digestion to them. All these things must be taken into consideration in the diet. Food in indigestion or dyspepsia should be simple, nutritious, and well cooked. It should be eaten slowly, and mixtures should be avoided. Three to four hours should be allowed to elapse between each meal, to allow of the digestion of the previous food taken. As a rule the following foods will be found very indi- gestible : Pastry, rich highly-spiced dishes, sauces, pork, veal, steak, beef, goose, duck, rabbit, fatty meats, greasilySICKROOM COOKERY. 19 fried fisli, salmon, cheese, potatoes, cahhage, peas, beans, hot bread, hot buttered muffins or toast, rich dishes of pastry and preserve, solid puddings, unripe fruits, nuts, tea and coffee; all will be found most trying for those suffering from indigestion or flatulence. On the other hand, the diet should consist of well- cooked dishes of the following foods : Chicken, mutton, sweetbread, partridge, sole, whiting, fish, lightly-cooked eggs, toast toasted crisjjly through, light milk puddings, beef tea, clear soup, stewed fruits, baked or stewed apples. Peptonised food will in several cases also be found useful. Directions for these will be found among the recipes. GASTRITIS AND GASTRIC ULCER. In Gastritis, or in Gastric Ulcer, predigested or peptonised food is often resorted to. Peptonised milk and peptonised beef tea in small quantities will generally be found suit- able. Later, when the patient is making progress, raw beef tea may he given. Even when the recovery is established, great care must he taken as to the solid food given. It must be of the most digestible kind. Prepared dishes of meat and fish which have been pounded and passed through a sieve are suitable, also lightly cooked fish and chicken, taking care to avoid all indigestible hard or solid food. In general terms, everything should be cold ; ice, milk with soda water or ice, and meat juices forming the principal foods. / CONSUMPTION. In Consumption the patient is attacked by the Tubercle Bacillus. The bacilli are abundantly present in the atmo- sphere, but require certain conditions of the body in orderSICKROOM COOKERY. 20 that when taken in with the breath they may develop and give rise to consumption. The bacillus may also he taken in food. Heredity is in some degree responsible for a tendency towards consumption, as also dampness of climate, an unwholesome atmosphere, or malnutrition. To combat it the great object must be to improve the health, strengthen the tissues, and make the patient able to resist the attacks of the bacillus and render it powerless. A stimulating climate, plenty of sunshine, open air, and an abundant diet, are the best weapons in this warfare. As to diet, it has been found that fats and oils are very beneficial, and for this reason cod liver oil is largely given. Fat in every form must be carefully introduced into the diet, and with care this can easily be done in forms both pleasant and digestible. Cream and butter are useful combinations in this dietary. Fat bacon is often well taken in considerable quantity, and is peculi- arly beneficial. Cod liver oil, and other oils, as in salad dressings, must be looked on as valuable foods. Consumptives can often digest far more food than they have appetite for, so every artifice of cookery must be brought into play to overcome their distaste for food. The following foods will be found most suitable : Plenty of cream, milk, fat bacon, butter, sardines,yolks of eggs, buttered eggs, toast fried in dripping, suet puddings, milk puddings with a small pat of butter, omelettes, marrow toast, farinaceous foods, chicken, game, fish, and all ordinary light foods. As to beverages, beef tea, broth, cocoa, chocolate, egg beaten with sherry or brandy, soda and milk, cream and soda water, koumiss, or any of the cream or egg drinks to be found among the recipes Wines and stimulants should be taken by order of the doctor. Milk should always be boiled, as it rendei's it much xuore digestible, and also desti'oys the tubercle21 SICKROOM COOKERY. bacillus, in cases where the milk may have been unknow- ingly obtained from a tuberculous cow, as it is possible to convey the disease in this manner. Children belonging to a family with a consumptive tendency should be carefully dieted from their earliest childhood, and in this way the danger may be averted. Consumptive patients frequently suffer from indigestion, and for the time being must be treated as indicated in a previous paragraph, page 18 ( “ Indigestion ” ). SCURVY, In scurvy, plenty of soft fresh vegetables, cabbage and potatoes should be supplied, and from three to eight ounces of lime or lemon juice daily. The following vegetables and fruits will all be found useful : Cabbage, potatoes, carrots, turnips, onions, lemons, apples, oranges and pears. In a very short time the scurvy will disappear. If the case is severe, lemon juice, apple juice, fruit juice, potato gruel and raw meat juico are specially useful, and later a return to a mixed diet, with plenty of vegetables, will re-establish the sufferer in health. Lemon or lime juice is most essential, and even without vegetables will quickly cure those suffering from the disease. SCROFULA. In general terms the diet in scrofula much resembles that of consumption. An abundant digestible diet, plenty of fresh air and sunshine, are essential. Fatty foods are valuable in this disease. The following foods will be found valuable in the diet: Butter, cream, milk, bi’ead fried in dripping, suet22 SICKROOM COOKERY. puddings, suet and apple puddings, milk puddings made with a pat of butter, buttered eggs, bacon, yolks of egg, wholemeal bread, jam, treacle, and all forms of light digestible food. Care must be taken to render all as nutritious and digestible as possible. Cod-liver oil is most useful in warding off the disease. Thus, in the young, by diet and care the disease may be overcome, or at least kept in abeyance. RICKETS. Rickets is caused by incorrect feeding. Insufficiency of fat in the food of young children appears to produce the disease. Occasionally hand-fed children have a difficulty in digesting milk, and are fed on so-called “ infants’ food,” and other starchy foods, such as arrowroot or cornflour mixed with water, or rusks soaked in water, the result being such children very often become rickety. Milk is the natural food for children, and cow’s milk must be properly diluted with water, in different propor- tions at different ages, to make it digestible. By boiling the milk the possibility of infection by germs is pre- vented, and it is also rendered easier of digestion. Occasionally peptonised food will be found necessary when the child is unable to digest milk in its natural form. This conveys the nonrishment needed already partially digested, and tides over the time nntil the digestive powers are re-established. Peptonised food should not be continued longer than necessary. In this way rickets may be avoided, but in older children, when rickets has developed, milk puddings, cream, potatoes and gravy, finely-chopped under-done meat, eggs, and a little bacon, will be found of benefit; while cod-liver oil must be largely given, being strictly a food, not a medicine.SICKROOM COOKERY. 23 CORPULENCE. In corpulence tlie diet must consist largely of albuminous food, while starch, fats and oils should be eliminated from the dietary as much as possible. The meals should be limited to three, and nothing taken between. All kinds of food should be introduced into the diet, or else the health will suffer, but in very limited quantities. A very strict diet should not be continued for more than a few weeks at a time. The following foods should be avoided : Bread, potatoes, farinaceous puddings such as rice, sago, tapioca or cornflour, pastry, butter, biscuits and butter, cake, bread stuffs, sugar, cream, milk, fatty meats, salmon and oily fish, preserved fruits, jam or preserve. Soup or fluids must not be taken in large quantities; beer, stout and spirits must be given up. The following foods may be taken in moderation: Meat, game, poultry, fish, eggs, plenty of green vege- tables except peas and broad beans, skim milk, fruits, salads, tomatoes dressed with vinegar, toast toasted or baked thoroughly through, tea or coffee without cream or sugar, soda water and lemonade. Saccharine may be used instead of sugar. Not only the kinds of food taken, but also the quantity, must be restricted. Plenty of exercise should also be taken. THINNESS OR EMACIATION. In extreme thinness so much depends on the existing cause, but as a rule foods pi’oducing fat should be taken in abundance. The following foods will all be found useful : Plenty of milk, ci’eam, butter, puddings, both farina-SICKROOM COOKERY. 24 ceous and of milk, suet crust, rice, cornflour, fruits, biscuits and butter, bread, cakes, meat, poultry, eggs, fat bacon, game, fish, a little beer or stout, and all nourishing and fat-forming foods. Foods to be avoided: Wholemeal, acid fruits, lemons, vinegar, spices and condiments. BRIGHT’S DISEASE. In Bright’s disease, stimulants and albuminous foods, such as meat, must as far as possible be avoided, as the kidneys are unable to deal with them. In severe cases an entirely milk diet must be resorted to; later, when the condition is improving, the following dishes will be found useful: Milk, milk and soda, milk and barley water, arrowroot made with milk, milk puddings of rice, sago, or tapioca made without eggs, cornflour and cornflour blancmange, oatmeal or groat gruel made with milk, koumiss, junket, milk jelly, rice mould, vegetable soups or purees, such as potato, turnip, carrot, celery, tomato, and artichoke soup, soup made from fish, thin bone soup flavoured with vegetables, macaroni well boiled, macaroni and tomato, macaroni or spaghetti au gratin, fruit, stewed fruit, and salads. Fish and white meats are also allowed in small quantities; fish cakes, fish pies, vanilla cream, butter, and, if digestible, light cakes. DIARRHCEA. In diarrhoea it is impossible to indicate a diet, as the cause of irritation must first be treated and removed. As a general rule, milk foods, rendered digestible by boil- ing, will be useful, while beef tea or other foods tending to cause irritation must be avoided.25 SICKROOM COOKERY. The following foods will generally be found useful: Milk, milk and soda, milk and barley water, peptonised milk, Benger’s food, plain biscuits, a little cold coffee, arrowroot, or cornflour, rice milk flavoured with cinnamon or cloves, and all starchy foods. Later on, when conva- lescent, boiled sole or whiting, toast, poached eggs, egg and brandy, junket, weak tea, chicken, and rice puddings may be given. The following foods should be avoided, as they cause irritation : Meats, beef tea, raw fruits, oatmeal, green vegetables, and potatoes. Occasionally it will be found that milk or eggs disagree with a particular patient, and the diet must be regulated accordingly. In fact the diet must depend on the primary cause. INFANCY. The bottle feeding of infants, and the preparation of infants’ food is quite beyond the scope of the present work. The method of preparing a bottle for infants will be found amongst the recipes (see Index). In CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH food should be plenti- fully supplied, as the change of tissue is rapid, and both flesh-forming and heat-giving foods are necessary for the building up and development of the body. Mineral salts are also needed for strengthening the bones and teeth. Regular meals, nothing between meals, and meat in moderation must be the rule. In MANHOOD, frequently, too much meat and flesh- forming foods are eaten, but the extreme activity of youth and the natural love of exercise enable the body to disj>ose of the surplus supply.26 SICKROOM COOKERY. In MIDDLE AGE, or after tlie age of forty, the food should be reduced, as the body no longer needs such a large supply, nor, in many cases, is it able to digest it. Hence by ignorance a tendency to corpulence is estab- lished. Brain workers, and those leading sedentary lives, should have light digestible meals, consisting of foods such as the following: Chicken, fish, eggs, milk, fresh vegetables, fruit, light stale bread, butter, cream, and a little bacon. An excess of butcher’s meat or albuminous food is unnecessary and should be avoided, as the want of exercise makes digestion a difficulty, or impossibility, and gives rise to dyspepsia, or worse. In OLD AGE, a light, nourishing, and digestible diet must be the rule. Light dishes of fish, eggs, small quantities of meat, milk, butter, cream, stale bread, and stewed fruits are suitable; weak tea, coffee, and cocoa. Climate, too, much influences diet. In cold countries large quantities of fat and oil are consumed to keep up the heat of the body. In more southern climates, fruits, vegetables, rice, and a cooling light diet seem to be demanded and supplied by nature. In the foregoing remarks it has been attempted only to indicate the diet in various diseases, but in every case this must be combined with appropriate medical treatment. Most of the recipes in this book have been specially inserted as being useful in various illnesses, and as great a variety as possible has been included, as, if one dish is distasteful to the invalid, it is often desirable to substitute another, supplying the same conditions under a different form.27 SICKROOM COOKERY. CHAPTER IV. NOTES ON THE “ SICKROOM AND SICKROOM DIET.” Nothing requires more care in its preparation than food for the sick and convalescent. Several points are essential for its success. The food must contain all the nourishment possible, and of a kind suitable to the invalid. It must be whole- some and easily digested, it must be palatable and tempting, and as far as consistent it should please the sight. At the same time, with a very little care and a few clear instructions, a dish with all these attributes can be easily prepared by even a novice in the art of cooking. Food should never be kept in the sickroom, but in as cool a place as possible. It should be served in small tempting portions. Patients should not see the prepara- tion of the food, or else they are generally inclined to refuse it. All should be prepared, and the food presented on a dainty tray, without previous warning. A spotless damask traycloth, glistening glass and silver all add a charm to the repast, however simple. A small supply of jelly, beef tea, or the ingredients for an egg beverage, should always be ready in case of being required. The sickroom should be airy, with a bright, pleasant aspect, if possible. Ventilation is important. The window should b8 opened from the top, and if there is a draught a piece of28 SICKROOM COOKERY. brown paper pierced with holes, or mnslin, should be fastened across, to prevent risk of cold. The trap of the chimney must be kept open. A fire, too, considerably facilitates ventilation, as the air is drawn to the chimney. The temperature of the sickroom should generally be from 60° Fah. to 65° (occasionally a higher temperature is needed, in which case it will be specified by the doctor). Extra or unnecessary furniture should always be un- obtrusively removed from the room, if the illness promises to be long, as in this way it is easier to keep the room thoroughly clean. Neatness and order should reign. A few flowers always brighten a room, and convey to the patients the impression that they are thought of and cared for. All cups and glasses should be immediately removed. In cases of serious illness the noise caused by the replen- ishing of the fire often much distresses the patient. In this case, it is an excellent plan to take half a sheet of a newspaper, place some coal in the centre, draw the corners together and screw into a bundle. These packets may be placed on a tray and taken into the sickroom. When the fire needs making up put a packet on top ; the paper quickly burns, and the coal settles quietly into its place. Sometimes a few bakers: paper bags are utilised in this way.29 SICKROOM COOKERY. CHAPTER Y. EXPLANATION OE COOKERY TERMS. Weights and Measures Used. Liquid Measure. 4 gills ... make ... 1 pint 2 pints ... „ ... 1 quart 4 quarts ... „ ... 1 gallon Avoirdupois Weight. 16 drachms make ... 1 ounce 16 ounces ... „ ... 1 pound 14 pounds ... ,, ... 1 stone To Blanch.—Put into cold water and bring to the boil. Then strain away the water. This is done to cleanse, whiten, or to set the food. To Chop .—If suet, shred finely, keep the left hand on the point of the knife and chop with the handle, until fine. Parsley should be washed, dried, picked from the stalks, and chopped in the same manner. Bunch of Herbs or Bouquet Garni.—A bunch of herbs, so much used in soups and stews, consists of a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and a bayleaf wrapped together in parsley, and tied into a little roll. To Pass through a Sieve.—If meat, pass once or twice through a mincing machine, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon, from time to time scraping the material from underneath. Other ingro-SICKROOM COOKERY. 30 clients may be pounded in tbe mortar and rubbed through, or if already soft, such as cooked vegetables, rubbed through without preparation. Liason.—A mixture, generally of two yolks of egg and half a gill of cream beaten together, used to thicken white soups. Panada.—A very thick sauce of butter, flour, and water. It will bind together any ingredients added to it. Usually made in the proportion of one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, and one gill of stock or water. To Fry in Deep Fat.—By a pan of fat for frying is meant clarified fat or lard. (See “ To Fry Fish,” page 61.) Buy fresh pieces of fat from the butcher. Cut up, removing all scraps of meat, put into an iron saucepan, and to every five pounds allow one quart of cold water. Boil until all the water has evaporated and the dripping comes out from the fat. Let it cool slightly, strain, and it is ready for use. It will keep well. Clarified Butter.—Put the butter into a small saucepan and boil for a few moments, then let it stand aside. Skim well, and pour off the clear butter. This is useful for greasing tins and prevents them from sticking. Spoons.—Wooden spoons will be found the most useful for blending, sieving, stirring or beating mixtures. Dariole Miulds.—These little moulds can be bought, made in tin, for about twopence each. They are most useful for setting jellies, creams, or cornflour mixtures. Jellies set in these small moulds will be found much more convenient for invalids, as they can be served one at a time. Once a large mould has been cut into it ceases to look fresh or tempting.31 SICKROOM COOKERY. CHAPTER YI. RULES EOR BEEF TEA. The following are the points to be observed in making beef tea, and a very simple explanation of each will follow : 1st.—Choose good, juicy meat, such as rump steak, beef steak, or topside. 2nd.—Remove skin, gristle and fat, and shred the meat finely, or pass through a mincing machine, in order to break up the fibres and obtain the juices from the meat. 3rd.—Soak the meat with the water, if possible, for fifteen minutes before commencing to cook. 4th.-—Beef tea must never boil. If it boils it is spoiled, as the albumen which it is necessary to extract from the beef hardens back into the meat, or separates into coarse brown particles, of which a good proportion is detained in the strainer when the beef tea is passed through. 5th.—Strain beef tea carefully through a fine wire strainer, as in many cases any particle of solid matter is dangerous to the patient. 6th.—Skim carefully, removing all grease. 7th.—Never make beef tea in larger quantities than required for the coming twelve or fifteen hours, as, being rather under-cooked, it does not keep well. As to the kind of meat most suitable for beef tea, always use rump, beef or buttock steak, topside, or any really juicy part of the meat. These parts contain the most albumen and other soluble matters, which are the nourish- ing and flesh-forming constituents of the meat. Do not use shin of beef. It is deficient in albumen andSICKROOM COOKERY. 32 contains a large amount of bone and gelatinous substance. It is the soluble albumen from tbe meat which is valuable in beef tea. Gelatine is an albumen-saving food and very easily digested, but cannot in any way take the place of albumen. If bones are boiled gelatine is obtained, whereas, by boiling, the albumen is coagulated and the beef tea spoiled. If beef tea sets when cold into a jelly, it may at once be assumed it has been made from the wrong kind of meat and in an incorrect manner. If beef tea is required in large quantities—as in hospi- tals—it is impossible to shred the meat by hand. It may then be passed through a mincing machine. See that the mincing machine is kept scrupulously clean, and allow good weight of meat on account of any loss of juice that may occur in passing through. In making beef tea in a saucepan, soak the meat in the cold water for a few moments, then commence to cook gently over a low fire or gas jet, stirring slowly with a spoon. Soon the water will become a bright i’ed and the meat will look pale and white, showing that the juices have leaked from the meat into the water. This is the object desired in beef tea, i.e., to get the nourishment from the meat into the liquid. Go on cooking gently, as no invalid will take it so undercooked. In a minute or two the liquid will begin to look a rich red brown. Take off the fire and strain. This explanation refers to “ quick beef tea ” as given in the recipe. The other way of making beef tea is in a stone jar or double saucepan. The meat and water are put into a jar, covered and placed in a saucepan of boiling water, or a double saucepan can be used if liked. The water in the saucepan is kept at simmering point for three hours. The beef tea inside the jar never boils. It must then be carefully strained.33 SICKROOM COOKERY. The reason of this is very obvious. I shall endeavour to explain it as simply as possible. Albumen, which is the flesh-forming, life-giving element in the meat, is very like white of egg in its properties. If white of egg is stirred into cold water it will mix freely with the water. Heat it gently and it will still remain in solution, but bring it to a certain degree of heat, say, 150° Fah., the albumen coagulates into hard particles like hard-boiled white of egg. Thus, if beef tea is heated beyond this point, the albumen is hardened into the meat or sets in coarse sediment and is strained out of the beef tea, the almost valueless liquid being given to the patient. As albumen coagulates from 120° to 150° Fall., it is obvious beef tea should never approach boiling point, 212°. It is not for an instant contended that this is the most delicious, savoury or well-flavoured beef tea, for it is not— but it is by far the most nutritious, which is everything when the case of the patient is serious. It contains all the nutriment possible to get in beef tea. Beef tea should be seasoned only with salt. Pepper or vegetable flavouring should not be put in for anyone seriously ill. Some doctors have almost ceased to attach great im- portance to beef tea, largely owing to the difficulty of getting it properly made. It is really easy to make if these few simple rules and scientific principles are adhered to. BEEF TEA IN HOSPITALS. Beef tea in hospitals is often badly made, owing to tho difficulty of making it in large quantities. P34 SICKROOM COOKERY. It is usually made in one large cauldron or stockpot- shaped vessel, placed over a gas ring or stove, or else subjected to a powerful stream of steam. In this way it becomes overheated—that is, heated beyond the point at which albumen coagulates. Therefore the beef tea is strained off minus much of the nutriment which it should contain. This could be obviated by the introduction of a beef- tea cauldron made on the principle of a double saucepan. Appended is a sketch, drawn by a practical engineer. It is one large cauldron within another. The beef and water for the beef tea to be placed in the inner cauldron. The outer cauldron to be filled with boiling water. The water in this outer vessel must be kept simmering all day, say, for ten hours, on a gas ring or stove, and filled up as it evaporates. The beef tea in the inner cauldron will not boil or become unduly heated, and will at the end of the time be ready to strain off. There should be a tap at the bottom of the inner cauldron, and piercing through both, to draw off the beef tea. The inner portion of the tap should be elongated and finely pierced with holes, to act as a strainer. As fat always rises to the top, the beef tea drawn off at the tap will be comparatively free from grease. A second tap should pierce the outer vessel, to draw off the water when not in use. The fat should be cut away before making the beef tea, and the meat passed through a mincing machine. This is usually done in hospitals. Owing to the difficulty of removing all the fat from large quantities of meat, if the beef tea could be allowed to go cold when cooked the fat would rise to the top of the cauldron and set. It could then easily be removed, the beef tea heated to the point required, and strained off.SICKROOM COOKERY. 35 BEEF-TEA CAULDRON AND SECTION OF SAME. D 236 SICKROOM RECIPES. BEEF TEA (1). \ lb. of gravy beef. ^ pint of cold water. ^ teaspoonful of salt. Choose good gravy beef, such as steak or topside. Remove the fat and skin. Cut into thin strips and shred quickly across with a sharp knife ; or the meat may be passed through a mincing machine. Put the shredded meat, cold water, and salt into a saucepan, and if possible let it stand for fifteen minutes to soak. Com- mence to heat slowly, stir gently all the time. The juice will come out of the meat, leaving it white. Cook gently until the liquid turns a rich red brown. Strain through a fine wire strainer. Remove any speck of grease by drawing a piece of paper across the top. It is then ready. N.B.—Beef tea must never boil, or it will be spoiled. BEEF TEA (2). (made in a jar.) 1 lb. of gravy beef. 1 pint of cold water. ^ teaspoonful of salt. Remove the fat and shred the meat finely, as in the foregoing recipe, or pass it through a mincing machine.37 SICKROOM COOKERY. Pat the shredded meat, water and salt, into an earthen- ware jar. Cover and tie down with paper. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiliug water, and keep the water simmering round the jar for three hours. The contents should he stirred from time to time. Strain carefully and remove all traces of grease. It is then ready to serve. BEEF TEA (3). (cooked in the oven.) 1 lb. of gravy beef. 1 pint of cold water. \ teaspoonful of salt. Prepare as in the preceding recipe. Put the ingredients in a stone jar, cover, and tie down with paper. Place the jar in a very slow oven for three hours. Stir from time to time. Then strain, remove all fat, and serve. This makes a very well-flavoured, pleasant beef tea, but on account of the strong savoury flavour of meat is not so suitable for patients seriously ill. EAW BEEF TEA. 2 oz. of raw beef. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Pinch of salt. Cut all fat and skin from the meat and shred finely with a sharp knife. Place this in a glass or basin, with the cold water and salt. Cover and let it soak for two hours. Then carefully strain and press all juice from the meat. Serve in a coloured glass. The object is to obtain as much nourishment as possible in a small quantity of liquid, and also the albumen in this beef tea, not being cooked, digests more quickly. Make this beef tea in small quantities, as it does not keep well. One or two teasjioonfuls to be given at a time. ONIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDSSICKROOM COOKERY. 38 BEEF TEA AND EGG. \ pint of good beef tea. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. Take quarter of a pint of beef tea, made by the recipe for beef tea (1) or (2), page 36. Make it warm in a saucepan. Pour into a teacup and immediately stir in the yolk of an egg, mixing it well through. Season and serve. ESSENCE OF BEEF. (for convalescents.) Beef or mutton may be used for this. Shred finely and place in a jar without any water. Cover and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Simmer gently for two hours. Then strain, and press all the liquid from the meat, and add a little salt. A very small quantity of this is given at a time, as it is strong and savoury. BEEF-TEA JELLY. \ pint of beef tea. oz. of gelatine. Make half a pint of good beef tea, and strain into a basin. Dissolve the gelatine in a couple of tablespoonfuls of water in a saucepan, and strain into the beef tea. Season, and set in small moulds or china ramakin cases. When firm dip into warm water to turn out. If prefei’red, the jelly may be served in the china cases. A conva- lescent will sometimes take this jelly when tired of beef tea.39 SICKROOM COOKERY. RESTORATIVE JELLY. 1 lb. of shin of beef. 1 ox foot. 1 quart of cold water. \ teaspoonf'ul of salt. Cut the meat into small pieces and chop the bones. Put into a stone jar with the water and salt. Cover closely and place in a saucepan of boiling water. Simmer gently for seven hours. Or the jar may be placed in a very slow oven. Strain, skim, and allow to become cold. It will set into a jelly. If desired it may also be warmed and served as soup. SAVOURY BEEF TEA. (for the convalescent only.) 1 lb. of gravy beef. 1 pint of cold water. 1 piece of carrot, turnip and onion. 1 small sprig of herbs and parsley. J teaspoonful of salt. Remove the fat and shred the meat, or pass through a mincing machine. Put into a jar with the water and vegetables. Cover and tie down with paper. Place in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer very gently for three hours. Strain, and remove all grease. This should be given to convalescents only, as vegetable flavouring is not allowed in cases of serious illness. WHOLE BEEF TEA. (for a convalescent.) \ lb. of gravy beef. \ pint of cold water. J teaspoonful of salt. Cut away all fat, and shred the meat finely. Put intoSICKROOM COOKERY. 40 a saucepan with the water and salt, and soak for quarter of an hour. Commence to heat slowly; go on cooking until all the juice comes oiit of the meat, leaving it white, and the water turns a rich red brown. Strain off the beef tea. Pound the meat in a mortar, rub through a wire sieve, and add to the beef tea. This beef tea is very nourishing for a convalescent, but would not be given to a patient prohibited solid food. BEEF JUICE (Bartholow). Broil quickly some pieces of round or sirloin, of a size to fit in the cavity of a lemon squeezer. Both sides of the beef should be quickly scorched to prevent the escape of the juices, but the interior should not be fully cooked. As soon as ready, the pieces should be pressed in a lemon squeezer, previously heated by being dipped in hot water. The juice as it flows away should be received into a hot wineglass, and, after being seasoned to the taste with salt and a little cayenne pepper, taken while hot. Sometimes given to consumptive patients. MUTTON TEA. i lb. of lean mutton. \ pint of cold water. £ teaspoonful of salt. Choose the lean juicy meat from the neck of mutton. Prepare and make in exactly the same way as quick beef tea (1), or beef tea in a jar (2). Mutton tea is sometimes given as a change, as it is both light and easily digested. Mutton tea must not be confused with mutton broth, the recipe for which will be found among the “ Soups.”41 SOUPS. Soup offers nourishment in a form ready to be digested, and its restorative powers are very quickly felt. Clear soup is useful for almost all convalescents. Strong white stock, thickened with a liason of eggs and cream, will be found valuable for the diabetic, as well as all clear soup, and strong unthickened meat broth. Thick vegetable purees and milk soups will be found useful in gout, and in kidney diseases, whereas strong meat broths should be avoided. Fish soups are also use- ful in cases of gout. Chicken broth, mutton broth, and veal tea, all make a pleasant variety for convalescents. FIRST STOCK. 3 lb. of shin of beef or knuckle of veal. 3 quarts of cold water. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. ly teaspoonful of salt. If the stock is needed for clear soup use shin of beef ; if for white soups use knuckle of veal. Cut the meat into small pieces, removing all fat. Break or saw the bone across and remove the marrow. Weigh meat and bone together and allow one quart of cold water to every pound. Put all into a large saucepan and add the water and the salt. Bring to the boil, add the vegetables, peeled but not cut up. Si mm ex' gently foi’ five koui’S, skimming fromSICKROOM COOKERY. 42 time to time. Strain, and when cold remove the fat carefully from the top. It is then ready for use. N.B.—The excellence of the stock entirely depends on gentle simmering. If it is allowed to boil hard it will be thick and dull. As the stock boils away a little more water should be added from time to time. SECOND STOCK. Bones, cooked and uncooked. Scraps of meat. Vegetables. Cold water. For second stock all scraps of meat, bones from which the meat has been cut, and all meat and bone from which first stock has been strained, can be used. Put all into a large saucepan, fill with cold water, and simmer all day. Any trimmings of meat and vegetables should be added throughout the day. This liquid is second stock, and is extremely useful for the foundation of soups, or for sauces. CLEAR SOUP. (for convalescents or diabetic patients.) 3 pints of first stock. (Page 41.) ^ lb. of raw lean topside. 1 white of egg (whipped). 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 1 small bunch of herbs. 10 peppercorns. 6 allspice. 2 cloves. 1 blade of mace. Pass the topside through a mincing machine or shred it43 SICKROOM COOKERY. finely. Put all the ingredients, and the white of egg (whipped) into a very clean saucepan, and whisk until it is coming to boiling point. Let it boil up, and simmer gently for twelve minutes. Tie a clean kitchen cloth or dinner napkin on a soup stand, or on the legs of a chair reversed, and with a soup ladle carefully ladle the soup through. Be careful not to shake it up in the process. Make hot again and sei’ve with savoury custard, cut into fancy shapes or rounds ; or with a little vermicelli boiled in water, strained out, and put into the clear soup before serving. This soup will not taste of the spices; they simply give a very slight pleasant flavour. SAVOURY CUSTARD. 2 yolks of egg. 1 white of egg. ^ gill of stock. Salt. Beat the eggs gently together, add the stock and season. Strain into a well-buttered jar or jampot. Cover with a buttered paper. Place in a saucepan with one inch of boiling water, simmer very gently until firm. Turn out, and when cold cut into slices and stamp into fancy shapes. Use as a garnish for clear soup. If cooked quickly, this custard will be full of holes. It should be firm and smooth. BEEF AND SAGO BROTH. 2 lb. of shin of beef. 2 quarts of cold water. 1 oz. of fine sago. 2 yolks of egg. -g gill of milk or cream. Cut the meat into small pieces and chop the bone, trimming away the fat. Put into a stewpan with theSICKROOM COOKERY. 44 water and a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer gently for three hours, skimming from time to time. Strain and let it become cold. Remove all fat from the top. Return to a saucepan, and, when it boils, sift in the sago and cook until clear. Beat the yolks of egg with the cream, and strain into the soup. Cook for one minute longer, but do not boil. Season and serve with thin strips of toast. Veal and sago broth can be made in the same way, using knuckle of veal instead of shin of beef. CHICKEN BROTH. ^ of a chicken. 1 quart of water. 1 07,. of rice. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 5 teaspoonful of salt. Out the chicken into small pieces and chop the bones. Put the chicken, bones, and giblets, into a saucepan with the water and salt, and simmer gently for three hours. Strain and skim, thoroughly removing all traces of grease. Return to the saucepan, add the rice, cook for twenty minutes, and shake in the chopped parsley and serve. Omit the rice if desired. If vegetable flavouring is allowed, this broth is much improved by the addition of an onion cooked in the broth. Two pounds of giblets may be used instead of a chicken. ESSENCE OF CHICKEN. 1 of a chicken. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Cut up the meat of the chicken, removing all fat, andSICKROOM COOKERY. 45 break up the bones. Put the bones at the bottom of a jai, the chicken meat on top, and add two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Cover closely and place the jar in a sauce- pan of boiling water. Let it simmer for six hours. Should the water in the saucepan boil away, add more. When cooked, strain all the liquid away from the chicken, remove all traces of grease, and season with a little salt. This essence is very strong, and should be given in small quantities at a time. WHITE CHICKEN SOUP. (for convalescents.) 1 chicken. 1 quart of cold water. 1 small onion. 1 blade of mace. ~ teaspoonful of salt. 1 gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. 1 dessertspoonful of ground rice. Cut up the chicken, break the bones, put into a sauce- pan with the water and salt, and bring to the boil. Add the mace and onion, and simmer gently for four hours, skimming from time to time. Then strain off and let it go cold. Remove all traces of fat and return to the saucepan. Mix the rice flour smoothly witli a little cold milk or stock, and stir in. Boil gently for eight minutes. Mix the cream and yolks of egg, season and strain into the soup. Cook gently for a minute longer and serve. (Should the broth evaporate while boiling, add a little water from time to time.)SICKROOM COOKERY. 46 FISH SOUP. 1 whiting or 1 lb. of cod. . 1 quart of second stock or water. 1 small piece of carrot 1 bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 1 gill of milk. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of floui\ 2 yolks of egg. gill of cream. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cut up the fish. Put the fish, stock or water, milk, carrot, herbs, and mace into a saucepan, and simmer together for twenty minutes. Strain off the liquid. Melt the butter, rub in the flour smoothly with a wooden spoon, add the strained stock and stir until it boils. Beat the eggs and cream together, and strain in. Cook for one minute but do not boil. Season, add the lemon juice and serve. GAME SOUP. 1 old partridge, or pheasant, i lb. of gravy beef. 1 oz. of butter. 2 slices of bacon. 3 pints of water. 1 onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 bunch of herbs. 10 peppercorns. 4 allspice. 1 tablespoonful of fine sago.SICKROOM COOKERY. 47 Cut the partridge into pieces, and the meat into small squai’es. Chop up the bacon. Make the buttei very hot in a saucepan, add the bacon and fry. Put in the pieces of partridge and meat and lightly brown, then add the spices and vegetables, and fry without burning. Put in the water and simmer gently for three hours. Strain and remove all grease from the top. Make hot again and sprinkle in the sago. Cook until clear, season and serve. Any kind of game can be used, or the remains of cold game. GIBLET SOTJP. 2 sets of duck or chicken giblets. 1 quart of water or second stock. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 blade of mace. 4 allspice. 2 cloves. 1 oz. of arrowroot or flour. Lemon juice. Clean the giblets thoroughly, and cut into small pieces. Put the giblets and water into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Skim, and add the vegetables sliced, and the spices. Simmer gently for three hours, then strain off. Return the soup to the saucepan, blend the arrowroot with a little cold water, and strain in. Boil for three minutes, stirring all the time. Season and add the lemon juice. A glass of Marsala and a few neatly cut dice from the giblets may be added, if liked.SICKROOM COOKERY. 48 INVALID SOUP. pint of beef tea. 1 dessertspoonful of crushed tapioca or sago. 2 yolks of eggs. Boil the tapioca in a little water until clear. Strain it and put it into the beef tea, which should be made warm. Add the yolks of egg and cook slightly. Season and serve. LAMB’S HEAD BROTH. 1 lamb’s head. 3 pints of cold water. 1 carrot, turnip and onion. 1 oz. of pearl barley or rice. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Divide the lamb’s head across, tie it together with tape. Place in a saucepan with the cold water and half a teaspoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well and add the barley blanched, and the carrot, turnip and onion cut into dice. A few French beans, cut across, and peas may be also used if desirable. Simmer gently for four hours. Lift the head carefully out, season the broth, skim, add the parsley and serve. The broth may be made in the same way, omitting the vegetables altogether. SIMPLE MUTTON BROTH (1). 1 lb. of scrag end of mutton. 1 quart of cold water’. 1 tablespoonful of pearl barley or rice. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt.49 SICKROOM COOKERY. Remove all fat, and cut tlie mutton into small joints. Put it into a saucepan with the water, add the salt and bring to the boil. Skim well. Blanch the barley and add it to the broth. Simmer gently for three hours, keeping it well skimmed. Strain and add the chopped parsley. If for a convalescent, do not strain, hut take out the meat and bones. Cut the meat into tiny dice, and return to the broth, add the parsley and serve. MUTTON BROTH (2). (for convalescents.) I5 lb. of neck of mutton. 1 quart of cold water. 1 oz. of rice or pearl barley. 1 small carrot. 1 small turnip. 1 onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Remove all fat and cut the mutton into small pieces. Put the mutton, bones, salt, and water into a saucepan Bring them slowly to the boil and skim. Add the vegetables, cut into dice, and the blanched barley. Simmer gently for three hours, skimming when necessary. Strain and remove all fat from the broth. Make hot again in a saucepan, and shake in the chopped parsley.50 SICKROOM COOKERY. SIMPLE OXTAIL SOTJP. 1 oxtail. 2 oz. of butter. 2 quarts of second stock or cold water. 1 small onion. \ teaspoonful of salt. £ teaspoonful of pepper. Cut the oxtail across at each joint, and trim away tbe fat. Put into a saucepan of cold water to blanch, and bring to tbe boil. Strain away tbe water and wipe the joints. Make the butter very hot and fry the oxtail brown in it. Drain away the butter, add the stock or water, the onion, salt and pepper. Bring to the boil, skim, and simmer very gently for three hours. Strain, and when cold remove all fat. If this soup has been very slowly and gently boiled, it will, when cold, be almost clear. Return to the saucepan, bring to the boil, and if wished serve a few of the small joints of oxtail in the soup, or sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of fine sago or vermicelli, and cook until clear. CLEAR OXTAIL SOUP. 1 oxtail. 2 oz. of butter. 2 quarts of second stock or water. 1 cari’ot, turnip, onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 bunch of herbs. 12 peppei’corns. 6 allspice. 2 cloves. < 1 blade of mace. Cut the oxtail into joints, and prepare as in preceding recipe. If vegetable flavouring allowed.SICKROOM COOKERY. 51 Make the butter very liot in a saucepan and fry tlie oxtails brown. Add the vegetables sliced, and tbe spices, and fry them too. Putin tbe stock or water, bring to tbe boil, and skim. Simmer gently for three hours, strain off, and allow to become cold. Remove tbe fat from tbe top. Take three pints and clarify exactly the same as for clear soup (page 42). A few of tbe smaller joints of oxtail may be served in tbe soup. OYSTER SOUP. 1 whiting. 6 sauce oysters. 1 quart of second stock. 1 anchovy. 1 small piece of carrot. 1 piece of celery. 1 sprig of thyme tied up in parsley. 1 blade of mace. 10 peppercorns. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. 2 yolks of egg. 1 gill of cream. Lemon juice, cayenne, salt. Put the oysters into a small saucepan with their liquid, and bring them to the boil. Take off the beards and gristle, and cut the oysters in four and put aside. Cut up the whiting and put it with the stock, oyster beards, anchovy, carrot, celery, thyme, mace, and pepper- corns, into a saucepan. Simmer gently for one hour, then strain off. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir the flour smoothly in, add the strained fish stock, and stir until it boils. Cook for three minutes. Beat the yolks of egg E 2SICKROOM COOKERY. 52 witli the cream, and strain into the sonp. Stir over the fire to cook the eggs, but do not boil. Add the oysters, lemon juice, and cayenne. Serve. This soup is rich, and not suitable for anyone seriously ill. OYSTER BROTH. 6 sauce oysters. £ pint of milk or stock 1 tahlespoonful of cream. Put the oysters, their liquid, and the milk or stock, into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Simmer gently for one minute, and strain. The oysters can either he rubbed through a hair sieve and returned to the broth, or the beards and gristle should be removed, the oysters finely chopped, and served in the broth. Season and, if liked, add the cream. RABBIT SOUP. 1 rabbit. 1 slice of lean ham or pork. 2 onions. 2 quarts of water. \ pint of milk. 1| oz. of flour or ground rice. Pepper and salt. Wash the rabbit well. Cut into small joints, and put into a saucepan with the cold water, the onions sliced, the bacon cut up, and season with pepper and salt. Bring to the boil, and skim. Simmer gently for three hours. Strain, and carefully remove all fat. Return to the saucepan, and, if desired unthickened, make hot, shake in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. To thickeu, blend the flour with the milk and strain into the soup. Stir until it boils, and cook for five minutes. Season, and serve with dice of toasted bread.SICKROOM COOKERY. 53 RESTORATIVE SOUP. 1 lb. of knuckle of veal. 1 chicken. I lb. of skin of beef. 3 quarts of cold water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. Cut the meat into small pieces, removing all fat. Put the bones and meat into a saucepan with the water, and add the salt. When it boils skim well, and simmer very gently for five hours. Strain, and when cold remove the fat from the top. Heat as required. If vegetable flavour- ing is allowed, this soup will be improved by the addition of a small carrot, turnip, and onion, to be cooked in the soup. SHIN-OE-BEEF SOUP. 3 lb. of shin of beef. 2 oz. of dripping. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 piece of celery. 2 quarts of cold water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 1 tablespoonful of fine sago. Cut the meat from the bones into small pieces. Break up the bone and remove the marrow. Make the dripping very hot in a saucepan, and fry the meat and bone a good brown in it. Pour off the dripping, add the water and salt, and bring it to the boil. Skim carefully, and put in the vegetables, peeled and cut into quarters. Simmer very gently for four hours, occasion- ally adding a little water if the water boils away. Strain,54 SICKROOM COOKERY. and wlien cold skim thoroughly. Reheat, shake in the tapioca and cook until clear. The excellence of this soup entirely depends on the gentle simmering. If allowed to boil, the soup will he dull and flavourless. TAPIOCA CREAM SOUP. 1 pint of good chicken or veal stock. 1 tablespoonful of crushed tapioca or sago. 1 gill of ci’eam. 2 yolks of egg. Put the stock into a saucepan, and when it boils shake in the tapioca or fine sago. Cook until clear. Beat the yolks of egg in a small basin with the cream; add a little pepper and salt. Strain into the soup. Stir over the fire for a minute to cook the egg, but do not boil or it will curdle. Serve. (Half milk and half cream may be used if desired.) ARTICHOKE SOUP. (gout.) 1 lb. of Jerusalem artichokes. 1 pint of stock or water. 1 oz. of butter. 1 onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 pint of milk or cream. Pepper and salt. Wash the artichokes well, then put a tablespoonful of vinegar into a basin of clean water and peel them under water. This is to keep the colour. Slice the artichokes, celery and onion, make the butter hot in a saucepan, and stir the vegetables in it, without browning. Add the stock and boil until tendei’. Rub thi’ough a kail’ sieve, and return to the saucepan. Add the milk or ci'earn, bi’ing to the boil, season and serve.SICKROOM COOKERY. 55 CABBAGE SOUP. (GOUT.) 1 a white-heart cabbage or savoy. 1 oz. of butter. 1 small onion. llj pint of boiling water. \ pint of milk. 1 tablespoonful of crushed tapioca. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Wash the cabbage well and cut away the outer leaves. Shred the centre finely across, and cut into short lengths. Put the shredded cabbage into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and bring to the boil. Strain away the water. This will remove the very strong flavour. Melt the butter, stir in the shreds of cabbage, and the onion chopped, but do not brown, add the boiling water and the milk. Simmer for twenty minutes. Then shake in the tapioca, or fine sago, and cook until clear. Season and serve. CELERY SOUP. (gout.) 1 head of celery. 1 quart of second stock. 1 oz. of butter. 1 onion. ^ pint of milk. 1 oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. Wash and scrape the celery well, and cut across in thin slices. Slice the onion. Melt the butter in a saucepan and stir the vegetables in it, without browning. Add the stock and boil for one hour until tender. Rub through a hair sieve and return to the saucepan. Blend the flour and milk together, and when the soup boils strain it in.5G SICKROOM COOKERY. Boil for five minutes, stirring well. Season and serve. (If the second stock is dark in colour, use half stock and half milk.) CUCUMBER SOUP. (gout.) 1 cucumber. 1 oz. of butter. | oz. of flour. I pint of white stock. 1 gill of milk, gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. Peel the cucumber and cut into blocks. Put it into a saucejmn of boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes, until tender. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the stock and milk and bring to the boil. Put in the cucumber and simmer for ten minutes. Rub through a hair sieve, return to the saucepan, and make hot. Mix the cream and yolks of egg together and strain in. Cook for one minute. Season and serve. Second stock may be used instead of white stock, but if dark in colour use half stock and half milk. LENTIL SOUP. i pint of red lentils. 1 oz. of butter, 1 onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 quart of water or second stock Pepper and salt. Wash the lentils well, and put them to soak the day before they are needed. Strain away the water, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the lentils and the vegetablesSICKROOM COOKERY. 57 sliced, to absorb the butter. Add tbe water or stock, and season with, pepper and salt. Simmer gently for three hours, then rub all through a hair sieve. Make hot again in the saucepan and serve. Soup can be made from haricot beans, or split peas, in the same manner. Lentils are extremely nutritious. ONION SOUP. 2 onions. ^ oz. of butter. 1 pint of hot water. 1 gill of milk. 1 oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. Peel and chop the onions finely. Put into a saucepan with the butter, and fry without browning for five minutes. Add the water, seasoning, and boil for twenty minutes until tender. Blend the flour with the milk, and strain into the soup. Boil for five minutes to cook the flour. Serve with toasted bread. In some country districts this is considered an excellent remedy for colds. POTATO SOUP. 1 lb. of potatoes. 1 oz. of butter. 1 onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 quart of boiling water or white stock. Pepper and salt. ^ pint of milk. 1 tablespoonfnl of crushed tapioca or sago. Wash, peel, and slice the potatoes, celery and onion. Melt the butter and stir the vegetables in, to absorb the butter, but do not brown. Add. the stock, season, and simmer for one hour, until the vegetables are tender.58 SICKROOM COOKERY. Rub through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, add the milk and bring to the boil. Sift in the tapioca, cook until clear, and serve. One gill of cream and one gill of milk can be used if liked. SPINACH SOUP. (See “ Diabetic Soups.”) TOMATO SOUP. (gout.) 2 lb. of tomatoes, or 1 tin of tomatoes. 1 quart of second stock or water. 1 oz. of butter. 2 oz. of bacon. 1 onion and carrot. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 piece of celery. 1 tablespoonful of crushed tapioca. Slice the tomatoes. Cut the bacon into small pieces, and fry it in the butter with the vegetables and herbs, then add the tomatoes and stock, and cook gently for one hour. Rub all through a hair sieve, and return to the saucepan. When it boils, shake in the tapioca, and cook until clear. Season and serve. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. (gout.) 1 vegetable marrow. 2 oz. of butter. 1 onion. 1 pint of water or second stock. 1 pint of milk. 1 oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. Peel and cut up the vegetable marrow and onion. Melt one ounce of the batter, stir the vegetables in it, to absorb the butter. Add the milk and the water, and boil for oneSICKROOM COOKERY. 59 hour until tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Melt the second ounce of butter, stir in the flour smoothly, add the sieved soup, and stir until it boils. Boil for three minutes, season, and serve. VEAL BROTH. Use neck of veal or knuckle of veal. Make exactly the same as either of the recipes for mutton broth. Veal makes a very delicately flavoured and delicious broth. FISH. Fish is most useful in the dietary of the convalescent, or for those leading sedentary lives, suffering from indi- gestion, or debarred from exercise. It is more digestible than meat, and contains a considerable amount of nutriment, although not so much as fresh meat. There are two kinds of fish. These may be briefly classed as those in which much of the oil is stored in the liver, and those in which the oil is distributed throughout the flesh, thus making the fish oily, and indigestible. The lightest and most easily digested fish are soles, whiting, haddock, plaice and flounders. Cod, dory and turbot rank next, but are a little firmer in texture. Salmon, herrings, mackerel and eels are rich and indi- gestible, although highly nutritious. For a convalescent, steamed, boiled or baked fish is the most suitable, and later, when more progress has been made, there can be no objection to well-friedsole, whiting or plaice. To choose fish, it should be firm to the touch, the scales and eyes bright, and there should be little or no odour60 SICKROOM COOKERY. of fish. It is generally best when plentiful and in season. Shell fish is indigestible on account of the firm texture of the flesh. Oysters are extremely nutritious, but, unfortunately, they easily absorb the germs of disease, such as typhoid, from contact with sewage matter. Until some stringent law is enforced as to the position of the oyster beds, they cannot be regarded as an altogether safe article of food. Oysters are more easily digested raw, but under the existing conditions they are more wholesome when cooked. TO BOIL FISH. Wash the fish well, and truss into shape. Put the fish into hot water, with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Do not boil, or it will break the fish. When the skin begins to crack, the fish will be done. Drain, and serve on a dish paper garnished with parsley. If sauce is allowed, serve on a hot dish with melted butter, or parsley and butter sauce poured over. A small fish, such as a whiting, will take ten minutes, whereas a large piece of fish will take thirty or forty minutes. Try with a skewer if it will come easily from the bone, and obsei-ve the cracking of the skin. TO STEAM FISH. 1 whiting, sole, or haddock. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. A little butter. Saucepan of boiling water. Fillet the fish if possible. If there is no fish steamer, butter a soup plate lightly, place the fish on it, sprinkle with lemon juice^pepper and salt. Cover with a buttered paper, and place the lid of the saucepan, or another plate, on top. Place the soup plate on top of a saucepan, half filled with boiling water, and let it boil underneath for aboutSICKROOM COOKERY. 61 thirty minutes. If the fillets are thick, or a whole fish is being cooked, turn once. When the fish is no longer transparent, but looks thick and white, it is cooked. Serve with the juice poured round This is the lightest and most digestible way of serving fish, and is generally served for an invalid without sauce. If sauce is desired, serve melted butter or parsley sauce. TO BAKE FISH. Fillet the fish if possible, and place on a buttered tin. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice ; cover with a buttered paper and place in the oven. Bake from ten minutes to half an hour, according to size. Remove the paper, and place on a hot dish. If sauce is alloAved, plain melted butter sauce, or parsley sauce, may be poured over. TO FRY FISH. For this a pan of frying fat is necessary. Clarified fat may be used, or three or four pounds of lard. Sufficient must be put into an iron saucepan to cover whatever is to be fried. When the fat gives off a blue smoke it is hot enough to fry. Dip the fish in a tablespoonful of flour, seasoned with pepper and salt, to dry it. Then brush over with beaten egg, and dip in breadcrumbs. Plunge into the boiling fat, and when the fish turns a golden brown it is thoroughly fried through. Drain well on paper, and serve on a dish paper, with fried parsley. A whiting is generally fried whole. Plaice and soles are filleted. This mode of frying is in every way the best. The fish is perfectly free from grease, crisp, and tempting. It is also the easiest way of frying, as it takes only a few seconds. Several pieces can be fried at the same time, and the fat should be kept, and can be used over and over again.62 SICKROOM COOKERY. GRILLED FISH. Any fisli or slice of fisli may be grilled. Brush a piece of notepaper over with salad oil, or butter. Place the fillet or cutlet of fish inside, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Pold the paper over the fish securely, and grill slowly over a clear but not fierce fire. Turn the papers over once. If liked, the fish folded in this way can be placed on a baking tin and cooked in the oven. It will take about fifteen minutes. Serve in the paper. The liquid inside is the essence of the fish, and should be served with it. FISH STOCK. Pish bones and skin. | pint of water, pint of milk. 1 shallot. 1 bayleaf. 1 blade of mace. 6 peppercorns. Simmer all together for ten minutes, strain, and the stock is ready for use. This is useful for fish sauces, and imparts a much better flavour than ordinary milk. BOILED WHITING OR SOLE. 1 whiting. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful of salt. Saucepan of boiling water. The whiting should be trussed with its tail in its mouth. Put the vinegar, or lemon juice, into the water, add the salt, and, when the water is very hot, put in theSICKROOM COOKERY. 63 fish. Keep at a very high degree of heat, but do not boil, as it breaks the fish. When the skin cracks it is done. A whiting will take about eight minutes, a sole twelve. Di-ain and serve on a dish paper, garnished with parsley and thin slices of lemon. If sauce is desirable, pai’sley or white sauce may be poured over. BAKED HADDOCK. 1 haddock. 1 eg'sr. oO Browned breadcrumbs. Wash the haddock. Truss it into the shape of the letter S. Brush over with beaten egg, shake brown breadcrumbs over. Place on a baking tin with a tablespoonful of dripping, and bake in the oven from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size. Baste. Remove the string, and serve. If sauce is allowed, a little plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce, may be poured round. FISH PUDDING. \ lb. of fish. 1 oz. of breadcrumbs. 2 oz. of butter. 1 egg. i gill milk or fish stock. e teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Whiting, haddock, or cod, may be used for this dish. It may be cooked or uncooked. Take the fish from the skin, and bone, and pound it well with the butter, breadcrumbs, egg, parsley and milk. Season with pepper and salt. When well pounded, put into a small well-greased pudding basin, cover with a buttered paper, and place in a saucepan. Steam for one hour.SICKROOM COOKERY. 64 Turn out on to a hot dish and serve plain, or covered with egg sauce. FISH SOUFFLE. J lb. of uncooked fish, or 1 whiting. \ oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. \ gill of milk or water. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Free the fish from skin and bone. Make a panada by melting the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flonr, add the stock, and cook until it draws away from the pan, stirring all the time. Pound this panada, the raw fish, and yolk of egg together in the mortal-, season well, and rub through a sieve. Beat the white of egg stiffly, and lightly stir into the fish mixture. Place in a plain souffle tin brushed with clarified butter, and cover with a buttered paper. Steam gently for forty minutes. When firm turn into a hot dish, and pour a good white sauce over or round. FISH AND MACARONI. \ of cooked fish. 2 oz. of macaroni. 1 oz. of butter. ^ oz. of flour. ^ pint of fish stock or milk. Seasoning. Put the macaroni into a saucepan of boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt, and cook until tender. Cnt into small pieces. Take the fish from the bones, and skin, and chop it up. Put the bones and skin into a saucepan with a pint of water, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, a65 SICKROOM COOKERY. small bunch of herbs, and simmer for ten minutes. Strain. Melt tlie butter, stir in the flour, add half a pint of the strained fish stock, and bring to the boil. Add the fisli and macaroni. Season well. Turn into a buttered pie- dish. Bake in the oven ten minutes, and serve. FISH CAKES. J lb. of cooked fish. 2 oz. of cooked potatoes. \ oz. of butter. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. Remove the fish from the bones and skin. Chop up the fish. Rub the potato through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the fish and potato, and put in the yolk of egg. Season well with pepper and salt, and cook till the mixture binds together into a ball. Turn on to a plate to cool. Form into cakes, brush with beaten egg, dip in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat (p. 61). Drain, and serve on a dish paper garnished with fried parsley. This mixture may be placed in a buttered piedish, a few browned breadcrumbs shaken over the top, and baked in the oven for a few minutes Any white fish may be used—cod, whiting, or haddock. FRICASSEE OF FISH. \ lb. of cooked fish. 1 oz. of butter. lr oz. of flour. 1 gill of water. 1 gill of milk. Mace, nutmeg, sweet herbs. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Take the fish from the bones. Put the bones and skin V66 SICKROOM COOKERY. into a saucepan, add the water and milk, a blade of mace, a grate of nutmeg, and a small bunch of hei’bs. Simmer gently together for ten minutes. Strain off. Melt the butter in a saucepan, rub the flour smoothly in, add the strained liquid, and stir until it boils. Cook for a few minutes, add the lemon juice, and the fish broken into flakes. Make thoroughly hot, and serve. A border of boiled rice may be put round the fricassee. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Any cooked white fish may be used for this dish. FRIED PLAICE. 1 plaice. 1 tablespoonful of flour. Pepper and salt. 1 egg. Breadcrumbs. Fillet the plaice. Cut each fillet across into three or four pieces, according to size. Pat the flour on to a plate, season with pepper and salt. Dip each piece of fish into this, then brush over with the egg beaten up and dip into breadcrumbs. Flatten these on with a dry knife. Fry in boiling fat, drain well, serve on a dish paper garnished with fried parsley. KEDGEREE. \ lb. of cooked fish. 2 oz. of rice (boiled). 1 oz. of butter. 1 egg- Pepper and salt. Separate the fish from the skin and bone and chop it. Make the butter hot in a saucepan. Stir in the fish andSICKROOM COOKERY. 67 boiled rice. Season with pepper and salt. Add the egg, well beaten, and stir lightly over the fire till it is sufficiently cooked. It should be about the consistency of buttered eggs. Pile in a mound on a hot dish, and serve with sippets of dry toast round the dish. Any white fish may be used. RED MULLET. 1 red mullet. 1 teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. J oz. of butter. Browned breadcrumbs. Wipe the mullet, place it on a fireproof dish or baking tin, sprinkle with the parsley, lemon juice, pepper and salt. Shake a few browned crumbs over, and scraps of butter on top. Bake in a good oven for about ten minutes. Serve immediately. A chopped mushroom may be cooked with the other ingredients on the top of the mullet if liked. SCALLOPED FISH OR OYSTERS \ lb. of cooked fish of any kind 1 oz. of butter. •I; oz. of flour. 1^ gill of milk or fish stock. Breadcrumbs. Pepper and salt. Butter some scallop shells or ramakin cases. Sprinkle with a layer of breadcrumbs. Make a sauce by melting the butter, stirring in the flour, then add the stock, and stir till it boils. Put a tablespoonful of this into the shells, F 268 SICKROOM COOKERY. then some flakes of fish. Cover with breadcrumbs and put a few scraps of butter on top. Bake for six minutes. Serve on a folded serviette. Oysters may be scalloped. Take twelve sauce oysters, and bring them to the boil in their own liquid, adding a little water if necessary. Remove the beards and cut each oyster into four. Use the oysters in the same way as the fish. STEWED COD OR HADDOCK. \ lb. slice of cod or haddock. 1 gill of second stock or milk. 1 teaspoonful of cornflour. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence (if liked). Put the slice of cod or haddock into a small clean saucepan or frying-pan, pour in the stock, season with pepper and salt, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in the oven for twenty minutes until tender, but not broken. Place on a hot dish and keep warm. Blend the cornflour with a little milk, and strain into the liquid the cod was stewed in. Let it boil up, stirring well. If liked, add the anchovy essence. Strain over the fish. STEWED EELS. 1 lb. of silver eel. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. i pint of milk or water. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cayenne pepper, salt. Cut the head off the eel, wash well, and cut it across in pieces about two inches in length. Put the eel in aSICKROOM COOKERY. 69 saucejmn of cold water and bring it to tlie boil to blanch. This makes it more delicate in flavour. Strain away the water. Melt the butter, rub in the flour smoothly with a wooden spoon, add half a pint of milk or water, and stir until it boils. Season, and put in the pieces of eel. Simmer gently for thirty minutes. Try with a skewer to see if tender. Add the lemon juice and chopped parsley. Serve on a hot dish and pour the sauce round. STEWED OYSTERS. 6 sauce oysters, l oz. of butter. ■g oz. of flour. 1 gill of milk, j gill of cream. 1 yolk of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Put the oysters with their liquid into a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Remove the beard and the piece of gristle. Cut each oyster in four and save the liquid. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk and stir until it boils. Add the oyster liquid, the yolk of egg, cream, and lemon juice. Cook for one minute longer. Put in the oysters and make hot through. Serve on a small hot dish, and garnish with sippits of toast. TO SKIN AND FILLET A SOLE. Loosen the skin all round the sole with the finger. Take firmly hold of the skin at the tail and tear it up- wards towards the head. It will easily come off. To fillet, make an incision down the centre of the back-SICKROOM COOKERY. 70 bone and round the fins with a sharp knife. Commence with short sharp strokes down the centre, and cut the fillet off, keeping the knife close to the bone. For the second fillet, commence from the tail and proceed as before. Plaice is filleted in the same manner. It is not necessary to skin it, and the fillets being large should be cut across in three. SIMPLE FILLETS OF SOLE. 1 sole. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Skin and fillet the sole ; fold each fillet in half with the outside skin of the fish turned inside ; place on a buttered tin, sprinkle with pepper, salt and lemon juice, cover with a buttered paper and bake eight minutes. When the fillet loses its transparency and looks thick and white it is cooked. Serve on a hot dish garnished with parsley. Whiting may be cooked in the same manner. Sole is one of the most digestible of fish, and is generally the first fish allowed when convalescent. SOLE A LA COLBERT. 1 sole. Pepper, salt, lemon juice. Browned breadcrumbs. Maitre d’hotel butter. \ oz. of butter. teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cayenne. Mix all the ingredients for maitre diiotel butter71 SICKROOM COOKERY. together on a plate, smooth out into a pat, and set aside to become firm. Skin and fillet the sole. Roll each fillet round the thumb with the outside of the sole rolled inside. As the outside skin contracts, this will keep the rolls in shape, and they need not be tied. Place on a buttered baking tin, sprinkle with pepper, salt and lemon juice, bake for about eight minutes. Make a plain fish sauce (see “ Sauces ”) and add a few drops of anchovy essence. When the fillets are baked, dip quickly into browned crumbs and place on a hot dish. Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on top of each, and pour the sauce round. SOLE AU GRATIN. 1 sole. 4 button mushrooms chopped. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. j teaspoonful of chopped onion. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Browned breadcrumbs. j oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. Skin and fillet the sole, spread the fillets on a plate with the outside skin upwards. On this place the chopped mushrooms, parsley, shred of onion, a squeeze of lemon juice, pepper and salt. Fold the fillet in half, doubling it over. Shake a few browned breadcrumbs over each, and place a few scraps of butter on top. Bake on a buttered tin for about eight minutes. Serve on a hot dish in a straight line, with tomato or while sauce round the dish.72 SICKROOM COOKERY. SOLE A LA HOLLANDAISE. 1 sole. Pepper, salt, lemon juice. Hollanclaise sauce. Skin and fillet the sole. Tie each fillet once through into a knot and place on a buttered baking tin. Sprinkle with pepper, salt and lemon juice, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for eight minutes. Make some Hollandaise sauce (see “ Sauces ”), dish the fillets and pour over. Decorate with a few browned breadcrumbs or lobster coral. FRIED SOLE OR WHITING. 1 sole. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. Pepper and salt. 1 egg and breadcrumbs. Fillet the sole. Season the flour with pepper and salt and dip each fillet in to dry and season it. Tie the fillet in a knot, dip in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain and serve on a dish paper. The sole may be served whole. Trim off the fins and tail and proceed as above. A whiting may be fried in the same way. TROUT. Trout may be boiled in the ordinary way for boiling fish. It should then be well drained, served on a dish paper or folded serviette. If sauce is allowe, serve plain melted butter or Ilollandaise sauce in a sauceboat.SICKROOM COOKERY. 73 WHITING CREAM. 1 whiting ox1 J lb. of fish. ^ oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. \ gill of milk. 1 whole egg. ^ gill of cream. Pepper and salt. Butter a small plain souffle mould. Make a panada. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk and stir nntil it boils and comes away from the sides of the pan. Let it cool. Take the fish from the bone and pound in the mortar with the panada, yolk of egg and seasoning. Rub through a sieve into a basin. Add the cream slightly whipped. Put the mixture in the souffle mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam gently for forty minutes. Turn out, and if desired pour white fish sauce over and round.74 MEAT AND POULTRY. Meat, poultry, and game are very nutritious, but vary considerably as to tbeir degree of digestibility. Turkey and chicken are the most easily digested of all meats. Pheasant and partridge are also tempting and digestible; while rabbit, on account of the close texture of the flesh, is decidedly indigestible. Mutton is lighter and more easily digested than beef. Beef in every form, particularly beef steak, is very difficult of digestion. Pork and veal are also very indigestible, and require very thorough cooking to render them wholesome. Salt meat is rather deficient in nourishment, and is also not easy of digestion. Ducks and geese are unsuitable for invalids, as they are both rich and indigestible. Pigeon is close in texture and often tough. It is more suitable when stewed. Sweetbreads are both nutritious, easy of digestion, and tempting. Lambs’ throat sweetbreads are quite inexpen- sive, while calves’ heart sweetbreads are costly, varying according to the time of the year. Bullocks’ sweetbreads also are often to be had at a small cost, and although not quite so choice as calves’ sweetbreads they are both well- flavoured, nutritious, and digestible. All close, firm meats, such as liver, heart, and kidney, should be avoided. RULES FOR BOILING MEAT. Wipe the meat thoroughly, and put into a saucepan of boiling water. Let it boil up, skim well, then draw toSICKROOM COOKERY. 75 the side of the fire, and only let it simmer till tender. If allowed to boil hard it will be tough. Allow quarter of an hour for each pound of meat, and quarter of an hour over on the joint. This rule applies to beef and mutton. A very solid piece of meat without bone will require twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over on the joint. For pork or veal allow twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over on the joint. These meats are very close in texture and indigestible, and for that reason they require longer cooking to make them wholesome and tender. For this same cause they are very little used in invalid cookery. Chicken or pheasant will take three-quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter to boil, according to their size and age. Partridges will take about forty minutes, and pigeons half an hour. By plunging meat into boiling water it seals up the outside of the meat by hardening the albumen, thus keep- ing in the juices of the meat. After the first five minutes it should be cooked below boiling point to ensure the tenderness of the meat. A piece of carrot, turnip and onion should always be boiled with meat or chicken, unless specially prohibited, as these vegetables much improve the flavour. If liked, chickens or birds may be wrapped in buttered paper and cooked gently in the stock- pot. The paper prevents them becoming discoloured. RULES FOR ROASTING. Make up a clear fire. Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth and weigh it.76 SICKROOM COOKERY. Place close to the fire for the first ten minutes to coagulate the albumen and seal up the outside of the meat, thus keeping the gravy in. Then draw the meat further from the fire, and allow it to cook at a lower degree of heat until done. Put two tablespoonfuls of dripping in the tin under- neath, and baste constantly. This will keep the meat mellow and prevent it from shrinking. When done, place on a hot dish, put this to keep warm, and make the gravy. As to time, allow quarter of an hour to each pound of meat and quarter of an hour over on the joint. This rule applies to beef and mutton. For a large thick piece of meat, without bone, allow twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over on the joint. For pork or veal allow twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over on the joint. Chicken or pheasant will take from three-quarters of an hour to one hour to roast. For very small pieces of meat a Dutch oven will be found convenient. RULES FOR MAKING GRAVY. Place the roast joint on a hot dish and put it to keep warm. Pour off all the dripping from the dripping tin into a small basin, draining it well, but carefully keeping back all the brown particles and sediment in the tin. Add a teacupful of boiling water and a little salt, and place over the fire. Stir this with an iron spoon until it boils up, crushing the brown scraps with the spoon. Strain carefully round the joint or serve in a sauceboat.77 SICKROOM COOKERY. RULES FOR BAKING MEAT. The rules for baking meat in the oven are the same as those just given for roasting before an open fire. The meat should be well wiped with a damp cloth and weighed. The time allowed is m each instance the same as for roasting. Three things are necessary to roast well in the oven. The ventilator of the oven must be left open to allow the steam to escape. The oven should be kept scrupulously clean. A double baking tin should, if possible, be used. These are to be obtained from any ironmonger. Water should be placed in the lower tin, which prevents the dripping from burning and giving off an objectionable odour. These tins are provided with a trivet on which the meat rests, keeping it from soaking in the dripping. Meat cooked in the oven should be constantly basted, just as for roasting, and the gravy is made in the same manner. Meat can be well baked in the oven, but is not con- sidered quite so digestible as meat cooked before an open fire. RULES FOR STEWING. Place the meat in a saucepan with just sufficient cold water to cover it. Add a teaspoonful of salt and bring slowly to the boil. Immediately withdraw to the side of the fire, skim, and keep at simmering point. A bubble appearing now and then is quite sufficient. If vegetable flavouring is allowed, a carrot, turnip, and onion will much improve the flavour of the stewed meat. Continue simmering until tender. The time to be allowed to stew meat tender entirely depends on the kind of meat used. Most meat will stew tender in two and a half hours, but if it is tough it will take four hours or longer. It can be easily ascertained when tender by putting a skewer into the meat. If itSICKROOM COOKERY. 78 slips in quite easily it is done. If there is any resistance, or it feels firm, continue stewing. The toughest meat can be rendered tender by long cooking. At the same time it must not be over-stewed, as it will be ragged and flavourless. BARLEY CREAM. \ lb. of veal cutlet or chicken. | oz. of pearl barley, ly pint of cold water. \ gill of cream. Salt. Shred the veal or pass it through a mincing machine. Wash and blanch the barley. Put the veal, cold water, and barley, into a saucepan, add a little salt, and bring to the boil. Simmer gently for two hours. Pound the meat and barley in a mortar with a little of the juice, season and rub through a sieve. Add the cream slightly whipped, and warm up if required hot. This is nutritive and digestible. BOILED CHICKEN. 1 chicken. Saucepan of boiling water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. Truss the chicken and put into a saucepan of boiling water with the salt. If vegetable flavouring is allowed cook a carrot, turnip, and onion with the chicken, as it much improves the flavour. Simmer until tender. A small chicken will take about three-quarters of an hour; a large chicken about one hour and a quarter. When cooked, drain well and serve on a hot dish. If sauce is permitted serve with white sauce (see “ Sauces ”). If available, the chicken may be cooked in the stock- pot, which improves the flavour’.SICKROOM COOKERY. 79 ROAST CHICKEN. 1 chicken. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. Truss the chicken and roast it before a nice clear fire. Put the butter or dripping in the tin underneath and keep it constantly basted. A small chicken will take about forty minutes, a large one about one hour. When the chicken has commenced to roast, draw it back, and let it go on cooking at a lower degree of heat. When cooked, place on a hot dish, remove the skewers, or trussing string, and serve with watercress and a little good gravy round the dish. If desirable, bread sauce may be served with roast chicken. STEWED CHICKEN. ^ 1 chicken. \ pint of milk. \ pint of water. 1 piece of celery. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. Out the chicken into nice-sized pieces. Place it in a white saucepan and cover with the milk and water, or if liked, use second stock. Shred the celery finely across, and put it in. Let this simmer gently for two hours. Blend the flour with a little cold milk or water, and strain it into the stew. Let this boil up to cook the flour, stir- ring to keep it smooth. Add the yolk of egg, season with pepper and salt and serve. If liked, the flour may be omitted, and two tablespoonfuls of cream mixed with the yolk of an egg stirred in.SICKROOM COOKERY. 80 1/ CHICKEN PANADA. J lb. of chicken or veal. \ gill of cream. Pepper and salt. Pass the chicken or veal through a mincing machine. It should weigh quarter of a pound after it has been through. Place it in a well-buttered jar or jampot, cover closely, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water. Simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Pound the chicken in a mortar, and rub it and the liquid from it through a wire sieve. Whip the cream slightly, and stir in the sieved meat. Season. If desired hot, make the mixture hot in a saucepan, and place on neat squares of hot dry toast. If cold, serve on dry toast, or in ramakins, or a small china dish. Pheasant may be cooked in the same way, but is not so delicate in flavour. CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 7j lb. of raw chicken or veal. lly oz. of butter. 1 whole egg. 1 white of egg. pint of cream. Pepper and salt. Pass the raw chicken meat through a mincing machine, or shred it up finely with a knife. Pound it in the mortar with the egg and the butter. Season well and nib through a sieve. Whip the cream slightly and stir it into the sieved meat. Then lightly stir in the white of egg stiffly whipped. Place in a well-buttered souffle mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam gently for forty minutes. Turn out and serve with white sauce poured over.81 SICKROOM COOKERY. Half quantity of chicken souffle may be made, in which case steam in small well-buttered dariole moulds. CHICKEN SOUFFLES (BAKED). 3 oz. of chopped cooked chicken. 1 oz. of chopped cooked ham or tongue. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. 1 gill of stock or milk. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Chop the chicken and ham finely. Make a sauce. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock, and bring to the boil. Take off the fire, stir in one yolk of egg, add the chopped meats, seasoning and lemon juice, and lightly stir in the stiffly-whipped whites of egg. Put the mixture into well-buttered ramakin cases and shake a few brown breadcrumbs over the top of each. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Serve immediately. BOUDINETTES OF CHICKEN. 3 oz. of cooked chicken. 1 oz. of cooked ham or tongue. 2 oz. of mashed potatoes. I? teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. \ oz. of butter. 1 egg and breadcrumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls of stock or milk. Chop the chicken and ham finely, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the chicken and ham, add the potatoes, parsley, and yolk of egg. Season. Stir well over the tire until the mixture binds together. Turn on to a plate Q82 SICKROOM COOKERY. to cool. Form in small round cakes, like fish cakes. Dip into beaten egg then into breadcrumbs. Flatten these on with a dry knife. Fry in boiling fat until they turn a golden brown, drain well and serve on a dish paper garnished with fried parsley. CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN. 3 oz. of cooked chicken or veal. 1 oz. of cooked ham. 1 teaspoonful of 'chopped parsley. ^ oz. of butter. \ oz. of flour. I? gill of stock or milk. Seasoning. 1 egg and breadcrumbs. Chop the chicken and ham finely, make a sauce, melt the butter, rub in the flour until smooth, add the stock and boil. Season, and put in the chopped meats. Turn on to a plate to cool. Take a dessertspoonful of the mixture, dip it in bread- crumbs, then roll into a ball or bolster-shaped croquette. Dip each into beaten egg, then again into the bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain and serve on a lace paper with fried parsley. Almost any kind of cooked meat can be made into croquettes—beef, mutton, veal or game. CHICKEN CUSTARD. 3 oz. of raw chicken. 2 yolks of egg. 1 white of egg. 1 gill of stock or milk. Pepper and salt. Shred the chicken meat finely (and if convenient pound and rub it through a wire sieve). Beat the eggs well together, add the stock, pepper, and salt, and stir in the83 SICKROOM COOKERY. chicken meat. Butter some china ramakin cases or small china moulds and put the mixture in. Steam very gently for twenty minutes or until firm. Turn on to a hot dish. Serve with a little good gravy round. CHICKEN OR GAME CUTLETS. ^ lb. of raw chicken meat. l oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour-. \ gill of stock or water. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock and cook until the mixture draws away from the sides of the pan round the spoon. Let this cool, and pound in the mortar with the chicken meat and the egg. Season, and rub through a wire sieve. Brush some cutlet moulds or patty pans over with clarified butter, and fill with mixture. Place the moulds in a saucepan with half an inch of boiling water. Simmer very gently until firm. Dish on a hot dish and, if sauce is allowed, pour some white sauce over (see “ Sauces ”). Game may be used in the same way. FILLET OF CHICKEN, STEAMED. Fillet or portion of a chicken. Butter. Butter a soup plate, place the portion of chicken on it, sprinkle with pepper or salt. Cover with another plate or with the lid of a muffin dish. Place the soup plate on top of a saucepan containing boiling water. Keep the water simmering for half an hour underneath, or until the chicken is tender. Serve on a hot plate with the juice round and a little cooked spinach if liked. G 284 SICKROOM COOKERY. FILLET OF CHICKEN OR PHEASANT. Breas'fc of a chicken. Butter. Pepper and salt. Cut the fillets from the breast of a chicken. Place the fillets on a buttered baking tin, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in the oven for twelve or fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish with or without sauce. If liked, these fillets maybe dished on a strip of mashed potato, a little white sauce poured over, and little rolls of thinly-cut toasted bacon served round the dish. Breast of chicken. Buttered notepaper. Pepper and salt. Cut the fillets from the breast of a chicken or pheasant. Butter a sheet of notepaper, season, and fold the fillet neatly in. Grill over a clear but not fierce fire for about five minutes on each side. Place on a hot dish with a tiny pat of butter on top, or sprinkle a few drops of meat glaze over. Serve very hot. FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 1 chicken, or pieces of cooked chicken. 1 pint of second stock, or milk. 1 piece of carrot and onion. 1 sprig of parsley and a bayleaf. 1 blade of mace. 2 oz. of butter. oz. of flour. BROILED FILLET OF CHICKEN. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice.85 SICKROOM COOKERY. Cooked or uncooked chicken may be used for this dish. If uncooked, cut into neat joints, and put these with all trimmings and bones into the stock with the vegetables, mace and cloves. Simmer until tender. Strain the stock off and keep to make the sauce. If cooked chicken is used, cut into neat joints and lay aside, putting all the trimmings, skin, and bone into the stock with the vegetables and spices, and simmer for twenty-five minutes to flavour the stock. Then melt the butter, rub in the flour until smooth, add the stock and bring to the boil. Put in the joints of chicken and make hot. Season with pepper, salt and lemon juice. Mix the yolks and cream together and strain in. Cook for a few moments and serve. Milk may be used instead of stock if desired. FRESH MINCE OF CHICKEN. \ raw chicken. ^ oz. of butter. 1 teaspoonful of flour. 1 gill of stock. 1 blade of mace. 1 grate of lemon rind. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. Cut all the meat from quarter or half a raw chicken (as desired) into small dice. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, stir in tbe chicken, but do not brown, add the flour, then the stock, and mix smoothly. Add the blade of mace and simmer very gently for one hour, or until tender. Then add a suspicion of lemon rind grated, and stir in the yolk of egg. Remove the mace, season and serve. Garnish with triangles of toast. A tablespoonful of cream may be added if liked.SICKROOM COOKERY. 86 MINCED CHICKEN. 4 oz. of cooked chicken. 1 oz. of butter. 1 teaspoonful of flour. I gill of stock or milk. 1 yolk of egg. Grate of lemon rind and nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Cut the chicken into tiny dice, or mince it finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan*stir in the flour, add the stock, and bring to the boil. Add the chicken and seasonings, and make very hot, stir in the yolk of egg and season. Serve. If bacon is allowed, roll some thin strips of bacon and put them on a skewer. Bake in the oven until clear and serve round the dish. Pheasant may be cooked in the same manner. MINCED CHICKEN IN RAMAKIN CASES. 3 oz. of minced chicken. 1 oz. of chopped ham. ^ oz. of butter. £ oz. of flour. 1 gill of milk or stock. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. 1 grate of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Chop the cooked chicken and ham. Make a sauce with the other ingredients. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock, and bring to the boil. Season and add the lemon juice and nutmeg. If liked, the yolk of one egg may be stirred in. Add the chopped meats and make hot. Serve the mixture in ramakin cases, and sprinkle a few brown breadcrumbs on top.87 SICKROOM COOKERY. POTTED CHICKEN. 1 lb. of cooked chicken. 2 oz. of cooked ham or tongue. 2 oz. of butter. Seasoning, nutmeg, or aromatic spice. Pass the chicken and ham through a mincing machine twice. Pound in the mortar with the butter and season well. Rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Put it into small china jars, and smooth over the top. Pour a tablespoonful of clarified butter over it. Omit the ham or tongue if objected to. CALF'S FEET. 2 calf’s feet. 1 onion. 1 blade of mace. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 quart of water. Pepper and salt. Put the feet in water and bring to the boil to thoroughly cleanse them, strain away the water, then put the feet into a saucepan, with the onion, mace, herbs, and a quart of cold water. Simmer very gently for four hours. Remove all the bones and cut into neat pieces. Have some parsley and butter sauce ready and pour over. CALF’S HEAD. \ a calf’s head. Stock or water. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 12 peppercorns. 12 allspice. 2 cloves. Bone the calf’s head, and truss into shape; or, if liked,88 SICKROOM COOKERY. put ifc as it is into a large saucepan and cover well with water or stock, add the vegetables and spices, and simmer gently for four or five hours, until tender. Take it up, and if it has not been boned, remove as many bones as possible and place on a hot dish. Have some parsley and butter sauce ready (see “ Sauces ”) and pour over. GRILLED CHOP. 1 mutton or lamb chop. Pepper and salt. Butter or salad oil. Make up a clear fire. Season the chop with pepper and salt. Brush the gridiron over with butter or a little salad oil. Cook for four minutes on each side. The fire should be clear and hot but not fierce. Mix a small pat of butter with a little chopped parsley, lemon juice, and cayenne, and place it on the chop. Serve immediately. If potato is allowed, cut some match-sticks of raw potato, fry a golden brown in boiling fat, drain well and serve round the chop. For potatoes the fat must not be so hot as for fish. STEAMED CHOP. 1 mutton or lamb chop. Butter. Pepper and salt. Butter a soup plate or muffin dish. Trim the fat from the chop and season lightly with pepper and salt. Place it on the dish, put a buttered paper on cop, and cover with the lid ; put this dish on top of a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling underneath. Cook for about forty minutes, turning once.89 SICKROOM COOKERY. Serve ■with, any liquid that may have come from the chop. By this method nothing is lost, and it will be found both a light and digestible way of cooking a chop. STEWED CHOP. 1 mutton or lamb chop. 75 pint of stock or water. 1 slice of onion. 1 tablespoonful of rice or barley. Trim all fat from the chop or cutlet, place it in a sauce- pan, and cover with the stock or water. Season with pepper and salt and bring to the boil. Skin and add a small slice of onion chopped (if vegetable flavouring is allowed) and a tablespoonful of rice or pearl barley. Stew gently for about one hour and a half, until tender. Serve with a little of the gravy and rice round. If barley is used, it should be blanched first. GAME. Pheasant, partridge, or grouse, may be roasted by the same rules as for roast chicken. Or they may be stewed by the recipe for stewed chicken. Brown game is not so easily digested as chicken or pheasant, and for this reason is not so suitable for an invalid. LAMB OR MUTTON CUTLETS. Best end of neck of mutton. 1 egg. Breadcrumbs. 1 oz. of butter or lard to fry in. Chine the mutton, and saw the bones across about three inches in length. Trim away all fat, and remove the skin from the front of the bone. Beat up the egg, and season it with pepper and salt.90 SICKROOM COOKERY. Dip each cutlet into this and then into breadcrumbs. Flatten the crumbs on with a knife. Make the butter hot in a frying pan, and skim it, then put in the cutlets and fry gently for about three minutes on each side. Dish on a bank of mashed potato, and pour a little good gravy round. If vegetables are permitted, serve spinach or stewed mushrooms in the centre, and pour the same round. If the mutton is large, cut one cutlet with a bone and one cutlet between each of the bones. BRAISED NECK OF LAMB. 1\ lb. of best end of neck of lamb. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 oz. of bacon. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 pint of second stock or water. Meat glaze. Saw off the chine boue, saw the cutlet bones across, and trim the fat and skin neatly from the neck of lamb. Fry the bacon, slice the vegetables and add them. Then pour the stock into the saucepan. Place the neck of lamb on top, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and steam gently for two hours or until tender. Try with a skewer. Drain well, crisp in the oven, brush over with melted meat glaze, and serve with a little thin white sauce. FRESH MUTTON MINCE. lb. of lean mutton. 1 oz. of butter. ^ teaspoonful of chopped onion. 1 teaspoonful of flour. £ pint of stock or water. Pepper and salt. Cut the lean part from a neck or loin of mutton, trim away the fat and skin, and cut the meat into small dice.SICKROOM COOKERY. 91 Make the butter hot in a saucepan, cook the finely chopped onion in it without browning, add the meat and stir well togethei*. Shake in the flour, mix well and add the stock. Let it simmer gently for one hour or until tender. Serve with triangles of toasted bread round. Any fresh meat or chicken may be cooked in this way. SHEEP S HEAD. 1 sheep’s head. Water to cover. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 piece of celery. 1 bouquet of herbs. White sauce. The brains boiled. Wash the head well, remove the brains and tie them in muslin. Tie the head together, put it into a saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring to the boil, put in the cairot, turnip, onion, celery, and herbs. Simmer gently for four hours. Take up the head, remove all the meat from it and put on to a hot dish to keep warm. 'The brains should have been boiled for half an hour previously and cut into pieces. Make a good white sauce (see “ Sauces ”), season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Stir in the brains and pour over the sheep’s head. Serve. SHEEP’S TROTTERS. 4 sheep’s trotters. 1 quart of water. 1 piece of carrot and onion. 1 blade of mace. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Put the trotters into a saucepan, cover with cold water,SICKROOM COOKERY. 92 and when it boils strain away the water. Put them with the vegetables, mace, vinegar, and water into a pan and simmer gently for four hours. Drain and serve with parsley sauce. STEWED OXTAIL. 1 oxtail. 1 pint of second stock or water. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 bunch of herbs. 4 cloves, a blade of mace. 2 oz. of butter or dripping. 1 oz. of flour. 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. Cut the tail right across each joint, trim away as much fat as possible. Put the joints in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. Strain off the water. Dry the joints, and fry lightly in the butter, then take them up. Make the butter hot again, stir in the flour and fry it a light brown, add the stock and stir until it boils. Then put back the oxtail and add the vegetables and the spices (tied in muslin). Simmer gently for four hours. Place the joints of oxtail on a hot dish, skim the gravy thoroughly and strain ovei-. If vegetable flavouring is objected to, the vegetables may be omitted. ROAST PIGEON. Pigeon may be roasted in the same way as & chicken, basted with butter, and served on a slice of hot toast. It is not a very desirable ovay of cooking pigeon, as it is rarely very tender. Braising or stewing is the most suitable method of cooking pigeon for an invalid, as in this way it is l'endered both tender and digestible.SICKROOM COOKERY. 93 STEWED PIGEON. 1 pigeon. i pint of stock or water. 1 slice of onion or celery. 1 oz. of rice. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Cut the pigeon into neat joints, or it can he trussed and stewed whole. Put into a saucepan with the stock, vegetables (if allowed), and rice, and simmer gently for two hours until really tender. Serve on a hot dish with the rice round, and a little parsley shaken over. BROILED QUAIL. 1 quail. 1 slice of toast. Buttered paper. Choose a plump tender quail. Draw, and divide right through, down the breast bone. Brush a sheet of note- paper over with melted butter, place the quail on it, season, and fold up, closing the ends. Broil this over a slow, clear fire for about six minutes on each side. Dish the quail on a slice of hot toast and serve. If liked, the quail may be trussed and hung in a small Dutch oven, and roasted before the fire. It will take about fifteen minutes. Serve on hot toast. QUENNELLES. ^ lb. of uncooked chicken, or veal. \ oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flom’. i gill of water or stock. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Chicken, veal, or mutton may be used.94 SICKROOM COOKERY. Trim away all fat and gristle. Pass tlie meat twice through, a mincing machine. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock, and cook until the mixture draws away from the sides of the pan into a ball. Let this panada cool. Pound the panada, Teal and egg in the mortar, season well, rub through a wire sieve. Porm into quennelles in a dessertspoon, shaping them with a knife dipped in water. Place the quennelles in a flat saucepan with an inch of boiling water, cover with a buttered paper and simmer very gently until firm. Drain and dish on a strip of mashed potato. If sauce is allowed pour white sauce over (see “ Sauces ”). RABBIT. Rabbit is not very digestible, being close and firm in fibre, and for that reason is not suitable for an invalid. If specially desired it can be stewed or boiled by the recipes for boiling and stewing chicken. RAW BEEF BALLS. J lb. of raw juicy steak. 1 teaspoonful of cream, or 1 teaspoonful of brandy. Scrape the meat into shreds with a knife. If possible, rub through a wire sieve. Mix this raw shredded beef with a teaspoonful of cream, and roll into balls the size of a small marble. If preferred add the brandy to the meat to mask the flavour. Rub the bottom of a frying pan with a scrap of butter, then carefully wipe out the pan with paper. Place the balls on the pan and move them about for a quarter of a minute with a spoon just to slightly change the colour. Serve imme- diately. They must be quite unchanged and absolutely raw. They may be taken with a little wine and water or soup.95 SICKROOM COOKERY. RAW BEEF SANDWICHES. 3 oz. of topside or juicy steak. Thin slices of bread and butter. Pepper and salt. Cut away tbe fat and gristle and sbred the meat finely. If possible, pound and rub through a wire sieve. Spread on the thin bread and butter, season well, and place another piece on top. Cut into dainty squares, or stamp into rounds and serve. If preferred, spread the raw meat pulp on the bread and butter, sprinkle well with castor sugar, and place another slice on top. This entirely masks the flavour of the meat. SWEETBREAD (PLAINLY BOILED). 1 heart sweetbread. Stock or water. Blanch the sweetbreads in this way : Put them into cold water and bring to the boil. Simmer gently for three minutes. Put into a basin of cold water. This will make them white and firm. Then trim away all gristle and fat, but do not remove the skin. Then prepare to cook them. Put into a saucepan and cover with stock, and simmer gently for forty minutes. Serve on a hot dish, or on a slice of toast, with or without plain white sauce. A few mushrooms may be simmered with the sweet- breads and served round the dish. FRIED SWEETBREAD (1). 2 lambs’ throat sweetbreads. 1 egg. Breadcrumbs. ^ oz. of butter. Blanch as for boiled sweetbread. Beat up the egg,SICKROOM COOKERY. 96 season with pepper and salt, and brush the sweetbreads well over with it. Dip in breadcrumbs and flatten these on with a knife. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan and fry the sweetbreads a golden brown. Drain and serve on a dish paper garnished with parsley. FRIED SWEETBREAD (2). 1 calf’s heart sweetbread. Second stock. 1 egg. Breadcrumbs. 1 oz. of butter. Blanch the sweetbread as in recipe for boiled sweet- bread. Put the sweetbread with sufficient second stock to cover it into a saucepan. Simmer about forty minutes until tender. Take up, put on a plate with another plate on top to press it. When cold, cut into slices, egg and crumb, and fry gently in the butter. If liked, the slices may be fried in boiling fat. Drain well and serve on a dish paper, or serviette, garnished with fried parsley. SWEETBREAD IN CASES. Cooked sweetbread. 2 mushrooms. \ oz. of butter. £ oz. of flour. 1 gill of milk. 1 yolk of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Cut a cooked sweetbread into dice. Simmer the mush-SICKROOM COOKERY. 97 rooms in stock for ten minntes and cut them up also. Melt the butter, rub in the flour with a spoon until smooth. Add the milk and bring to the boil. Add the yolk of egg and lemon juice, and season with pepper and salt. Then put in the sweetbread and mushrooms. Simmer gently for three or four minutes to make thoroughly hot. Serve in either china or paper ramakin cases. For a change, six sauce oysters may be blanched, cut in four, and used with the sweetbread instead of mush- rooms. BRAISED SWEETBREAD. 1 heart sweetbread. Second stock. 1 tablespoonful of meat glaze. 1 block of fried bread. Vegetable puree. Blanch the sweetbread as for boiled sweetbread. Put the sweetbread into a saucepan with a few slices of carrot and onion, and sufficient stock to cover the vegetables. Simmer gently for about forty minutes. Toast a block of bread, and place the sweetbread on it. Brush over with melted meat glaze. Serve with a little good gravy, or sauce, round the dish. If vegetables are desirable, stew a few green peas, or boil some spinach. Drain and rub through a hair sieve. Reheat with a small pat of butter, and place at the corners of the dish. H98 SICKROOM COOKERY. STEWED TRIPE. lb. of tripe. 1 onion. -g pint of milk. \ dessertspoonful of flour. Pepper and salt. Blancb the tripe by putting it into cold water, and bring it to the boil. Strain away the water. Remove all fat, and cut into neat square pieces. Put the tripe, the onion chopped, and the milk into a saucepan, and season with pepper and salt. Bring to the boil and simmer gently for two hours. Blend the flour smoothly with a little cold milk, and strain in. Stir until it boils up. Serve very hot.99 VEGETABLES. In all cases where possible, the vegetables, after being boiled and well drained, should be rubbed through a sieve, then seasoned and made hot again. This renders them much more digestible as well as more delicious to eat. This rule especially applies to cabbage, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, carrots, turnips, and spinach, as the stalks and fibres of vegetables are particularly difficult of digestion. TO PREPARE VEGETABLES. Wash and scrub potatoes well, and peel thinly in clean water. New potatoes only need scraping. Green vege- tables, cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce, and spinach should be soaked in cold water with a little salt, to remove the grit and draw out any insects. Cabbage should have the coarse outer leaves trimmed away and the stalk split in four. Cauliflower also should have the leaves cut off. Lettuce should have the root cut away, and any damaged leaves removed. Spinach should be well rinsed, and have the stalks torn off. French beans should have the strings at the sides drawn off, and be cut into thin strips or diamonds. Turnip greens and Brussels sprouts should be well picked over and trimmed. Celery and seakale must be well washed, all mud brushed from the roots, and trimmed. Celery should have the top green stalk cut away. Carrots should be well scraped, and turnips thickly peeled, on account of their thick coarse rind, which must be cut away. They should then be cut into quarters. Vegetable marrow should be peeled, quartered, and cut across. Vegetables when prepared should he kept in cold water until cooked. H 2SICKROOM COOKERY. 100 TO BOIL GREEN VEGETABLES. Saucepan, of boiling water. 1 large teaspoonful of salt. Soda to cover a threepenny piece. All green vegetables should be put into boiling water with the salt and soda, and boiled with the lid off. The lime in solution in hard water discolours green vegetables. By the addition of soda the lime is destroyed, the water softened, and the colour of the vegetables preserved. The time vegetables take to boil depends on their age and size. Young vegetables take about twenty minutes, older vegetables about thirty-five or forty minutes. As soon as tender strain, as, if left soaking in the water when cooked, they lose flavour and become discoloured. Cabbage.—Boil for thirty minutes, or until tender. Drain well, cut across, dish in a hot vegetable dish, and put some tiny pieces of butter on top. Cauliflower.—Boil from, twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. Drain well. Serve in a hot vegetable dish, with a little white sauce poured over if liked (page 109). French Beans.—Boil for twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain. Toss with a little butter, pepper and salt, and serve. Brussels Sprouts.—Boil for twenty minutes. Drain well. Toss with a tiny piece of butter in the saucepan, season, and serve in a hot dish. Spanish Onion.—Boil for three hours until tender. Drain and serve with white sauce.101 SICKROOM COOKERY. Turnip Tops.—Boil about twenty-five minutes. Drain. Chop across witb a knife. Rebeat witb a tiny piece of butter. Serve in a hot disk. Boiled Lettuce.—Boil for twenty minutes, or until tender. Chop on a board. Return to the saucepan with a tiny piece of butter. Reheat, season and serve. The lettuce may be well drained, and served with a little good gravy poured over if liked. Seakale and Celery.—Cut in lengths, tie in bundles. Boil until tender. Drain well. Serve with a little white sauce if allowed. Spinach.—Prepare as directed. If the spinach is young put it into a saucepan without any water, only that which adheres to the leaves. Sprinkle with salt, cover and cook about twenty-five minutes until tender. Drain on a wire sieve, pressing the water out. Chop on a board or rub through the sieve. Reheat in the saucepan with a small piece of butter, season and serve. A tablespoonful of cream may be stirred in if liked. Old spinach should be put into boiling water with a tea- spoonful of salt. Spinach reduces so much that it will take two pounds for a dish. For other vegetables have a saucepan of boiling water and add a teaspoonful of salt. Vegetable Marrow or Cucumber.—Boil about twenty- five minutes. Drain. Serve with white sauce. Carrots or Parsnips.—Boil twenty minutes to one hour, according to age, with the lid on. Chop finely. Reheat with a little butter, pepper and salt, and serve. Turnips.—Boil for half an hour. Drain well. Mash and mix with a little butter, pepper and salt.102 SICKROOM COOKERY. POTATOES. Choose potatoes much the same size, so that they may all cook in about the same time. Scrub well, and peel thinly in clean water. Put into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover. Add a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer gently until tender. They will take about half an hour. Try with a skewer. When cooked through, but still a little firm, drain, and let them stand by the side of the fire to dry. Potatoes may be steamed in an ordinary steamer until tender if liked. N ew potatoes should be scraped only and put into boiling water to cook. MASHED POTATOES. Boiled potatoes. 1 oz. of butter. 1 tablespoonful of milk. Pepper and salt. Boil the potatoes, rub through a wire sieve, or mash in the saucepan. Add the butter, milk and seasoning, and stir well together over the fire. Dish in a mound in a hot vegetable dish, mark with a fork, and serve. If liked, freshly boiled potatoes may be pressed through a potato masher into a hot vegetable dish and served immediately. POTATO CROQUETTES. 1 lb. of boiled potatoes. 1 oz. of butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Egg and breadcrumbs. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve or mash them thoroughly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in theSICKROOM COOKERY. 103 potato, yolk of egg and pai'sley, and season well. Stir over the fire until the mixture binds into a ball. Turn on to a plate, make into small balls or bolster-shaped croquettes. Dip in beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. Drain well, and serve in a hot vegetable dish. STEWED MUSHROOMS. ^ lb. of mushrooms. 1 oz. of butter. \ pint of stock or milk. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. Pepper and salt. Rinse and peel the mushrooms. Melt the butter and stir them in it without breaking. Add the stock, season with pepper, salt, and the lemon juice. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Blend the flour with a little cold liquid, and strain into the saucepan. Stir gently until it boils up, but be careful not to break the mushrooms. Serve on a hot dish with triangles of toasted bread round. TOMATOES AU GRATIN'. 1 lb. of tomatoes. Breadcrumbs. 2 oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. Slice the tomatoes and put them into a buttered pie- dish with a few scraps of butter, pepper and salt. Put plenty of breadcrumbs on top and the rest of the butter in pieces. Bake in the oven for twenty-five minutes until the tomatoes are tender. Serve.SICKROOM COOKERY. 104 BAKED TOMATOES. Place tlie tomatoes on a buttered baking tin with a piece of butter on each. Bake for quarter of an hour. TO BOIL BICE FOR A VEGETABLE. \ lb. of Patna rice. Large saucepan of boiling water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. Wash the rice and put it in when the water is absolutely boiling, with the salt and a little lemon juice. Boil for nine minutes, then try. If the rice is cooked through, though still firm, take it up and strain off. It may need a couple of minutes longer. Pour some cold water oyer, which will set it and prevent it cooking further. Drain well and diy on a baking tin near the fire, turning from time to time. MACARONI. J lb. of macaroni. 1 teaspoonful of salt, pint of strong stock. Break the macaroni into lengths and put into a sauce- pan of boiling water with the salt. Boil for one hour until tender. Strain, cut into half-inch lengths, season and serve. If liked, after straining put it into a saucepan with the stock, and simmer until the stock is almost absorbed. Serve. For macaroni a l’ltalienne.—Instead of putting the macaroni into half a pint of stock, put it into half a pint of tomato sauce. Pour into a buttered dish and shake half an ounce of grated cheese over the top. Bake in the oven for five minutes. Serve. This is an excellent dish, but not very digestible on account of the cheese.105 SAUCES. ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 5 oz. of butter. | oz. of flour. I-?, gill of milk. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 2 yolks of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Melt tbe butter, stir in tbe flour smoothly, add tbe stock and bring to the boil. Boil for two minutes, then add the cream and stir in the yolks of egg. Cook for one moment longer, add the lemon juice, and serve. May be served with fish or chicken. BREAD SAUCE. J pint of breadcrumbs. \ pint of milk. 1 slice of onion. 6 peppercorns. Simmer the onion and the peppercorns in the milk for ten minutes, then strain out. Add the breadcrumbs to the milk, and let the sauce soak by the side of the fire for six or seven minutes. A tablespoonful of cream may be stirred in if liked. Serve in a sauceboat, with roast chicken.SICKROOM COOKERY. 106 CARAMEL SAUCE. J lb. of loaf sugar. £ pint of water. Put tbe sugar and water into a saucepan and bring to tbe boil. Boil until it turns a golden toffee colour’. Strain, and it is ready to serve with rice mould or any farinaceous pudding. CORNFLOUR SAUCE. \ pint of milk. 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot or cornflour. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. Blend the cornflour in a basin with a little cold milk. Put the rest of the milk on to boil. When it boils pour on to the cornflour. Return to the saucepan and boil for four minutes. Add the sugar and serve as a simple sauce for puddings. CUSTARD SAUCE. 1 gill of milk. 1 egg. 1 teaspoon ful of castor sugar. Boil the milk and pour it on to the egg well beaten. Return to the saucepan and stir over the fire until it thickens. Put in the sugar, strain and serve. Serve as a sauce for puddings. EGG SAUCE. \ pint of white sauce. 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. Make half a pint of white sauce. Hard-boil an egg and take the yolk out. Pass the yolk through a wire sieve. Pour the sauce over the fish and decorate with the yolk.107 SICKROOM COOKERY. GERMAN SAUCE. 2 yolks of egg. 1 glass of slierry. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Put the yolks of egg, sherry and sugar, into a sauce- pan. Whisk over the fire until it becomes a thick froth. It is ready. If it becomes too thick, add a little milk. If desired, the sherry may be omitted, and the juice of half a lemon, put into a wine glass and made up to the quantity with cold water, may be used instead. Serve for puddings. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. ^ oz. of butter. tt oz. of flour. 1 gill of water. 2 yolks of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cayenne. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the water and bring to the boil. Stir in the yolks of egg, cook for a moment, add the lemon juice and cayenne. Used for fish, or for serving with vegetables. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 1 oz. of butter. \ oz. of flour. gill of water or milk. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add tlio liquid, and stir until it boils. Boil for two minutes. Season and serve. For anchovy sauce a few drops of anchovy essence may be added when cooked.SICKROOM COOKERY. 108 SWEET MELTED BUTTER. Make as above, and add a teaspoonfu.1 of castor sugar, omitting the seasoning. PARSLEY AND BUTTER SAUCE. 1 oz. of butter. \ 1 oz. of flour. 7; pint of stock or liquid. 1 gill of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the liquid and bring to the boil, stirring all the time. Boil well, put in the parsley, and season. Serve. TOMATO SAUCE. 1 oz. of butter. 2 oz. of bacon. 1 onion. 1 small carrot. 1 lb. of tomatoes. 1 bouquet of herbs. •| pint of stock. 1 teaspoonful of cornflour. Melt the butter in a saucepan, cut up the bacon small, and fry it with the sliced onion and carrot. Add the tomatoes and stock, and simmer until tender. Rub through a hair sieve. If desired slightly thickened, return to the saucepan and bring to the boil. Blend the cornflour with a little cold water and stir in. Boil for three minutes. Sei’ve.109 SICKROOM COOKERY. WHITE SAUCE. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. i pint of milk. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir until it boils. Boil for two minutes, season, and serve. For chicken make double quantity. Add a little cream if desired. For coating chicken or quennelles. WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. ^ pint of fish stock or milk. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the stock, and stir until it boils. Boil for two minutes. Add the lemon juice, pepper and salt. A tablespoonful of cream may be added if liked. Useful for coating fish.no JELLIES AND PUDDINGS. K>« Jelly will always be a favourite with invalids and con- valescents. It is cool, refreshing, and easily taken. It is also stimulating from the wine with which it is flavoured. In the case of milk jelly, egg jelly, and amber jelly, they are nourishing as well, on account of the milk and eggs with which they are made. Gelatine and isinglass are of little value as nutrients, but they are easily digested, and most useful to stiffen jellies. In this way milk, and other foods, can be pre- sented in a solidified and varied form, thus making a change. Calf’s foot jelly, for the same reason, is not more nutri- tious than jelly made from bought gelatine, as it is simply stiffened by the gelatine obtained by boiling the calf’s feet. It derives its restorative properties from the wine and lemon juice added to it. Nevertheless, all jelly is stimulating and refreshing, and often tempts the appetite when more solid food would fail. Light, well-cooked, farinaceous or milk puddings are useful in the sickroom dietary. They are easily digested, and can be made more nourishing by the addition of an egg. At the same time, this renders them less digestible. When an egg has been used, the pudding should be baked in a very moderate oven to prevent the egg from curdling. Stewed fruits, pi’une or fruit moulds, will all be found useful.SICKROOM COOKERY. Ill Usually flavourings and spices are disliked by invalids, therefore they should be added in very small quantities, and in accordance with the taste of the patient. APPLE JELLY. 1 lb. of apples. \ pint of water. 1 lemon, rind and juice. 3 oz. of castor sugar. I- oz. of sheet gelatine. Peel and slice the apples. Put them into a saucepan with the thinly-cut lemon rind, sugar, water, and lemon juice. Simmer until tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Melt the gelatine in half a gill of water and strain in. Set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. When firm, dip into warm water, and turn on to a dish. Goose- berry jelly and rhubarb jelly are made in the same way. Allow three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, and a little more sugar. CALF’S FOOT JELLY 2 calf’s feet. 5 pints of water, pint of sherry. \ glass of brandy. 1 gill of lemon juice. 6 oz. of sugar. 1 inch of cinnamon. 4 cloves. Thinly-cut rind of three lemons. 2 whites of egg whipped and the shells. Chop each foot into four pieces and blanch them. Put into a saucepan with five pints of water, and boil gently for six hours, skimming well. Reduce to one quart.112 SICKROOM COOKERY. Strain and let it become cold. Remove every particle of grease by skimming, and wipe over with a scalded cloth. Pat this quart of calf’s foot stock and all the other ingredients into a sancepan and whisk until it boils. Boil up well, and strain through a clean coarse tea cloth scalded and tied to a jelly stand, or to the legs of a chair reversed. Return the jelly gently to the cloth until it comes clear, each time putting a clean basin rinsed with hot water underneath. Set in moulds rinsed with cold water. The calf’s feet should always be boiled for stock the day before the jelly is to be made. CLARET JELLY. 1 gill of raspberry or strawberry jam or syrup. r> pint of claret. 1 tablespoonful of brandy. 3 oz. of castor sugar. 1 lemon, rind, and juice. 1 gill of water. | oz. of sheet gelatine. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add all the other ingredients, and melt slowly together. As soon as they are well mixed, colour with cochineal, strain through muslin, and set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. Or the jelly may be set in a border mould and served with whipped cream in the centre. COFFEE JELLY. i pint of strong clear coffee. \ pint of water. ^ oz. of sheet gelatine. Sugar to taste. Melt the gelatine in the water and strain into a basinSICKROOM COOKERY. 113 with the coffee. Add sugar to taste. Set in small mould. A tablespoonful of brandy may be added if liked. This jelly may be made with tea and is very refreshing. 2 eggs. 6 oz. of loaf sugar. | oz. of sheet gelatine. 2 lemons, the juice made up to one pint with cold water. Rub the sugar on to the lemon rind, squeeze the juice, and make up to one pint with water. Beat the eggs and put all the ingredients into a saucepan. Whisk until it is almost boiling, but do not boil. Strain and set in little moulds rinsed with cold water. When firm, dip for a moment into warm water, and turn on to a cold This jelly is nourishing on account of the eggs, and the lemons make it tempting and refreshing. 4 yolks of egg or 2 whole eggs. J pint of sherry or Marsala. J pint of lemon juice. \ pint of water. 6 oz. of castor sugar. 1 oz. of sheet gelatine. 1 lemon rind thinly cut. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan and whisk until they almost boil, but do not boil. Strain, and set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. To turn out, EGG JELLIES. dish. AMBER JELLY i114 SICKROOM COOKERY. clip for one moment into warm water, and turn on to a cold dish. This jelly is excellent; the eggs are very nonrishing, and the wine and lemon jnice give it a delicious flavour. LEMON JELLY. \ pint of lemon jnice. 1-g pint of water. G oz. of loaf sugar. 1 inch of cinnamon. 4 cloves. 2 oz. of sheet gelatine. The rind of four lemons, thinly cut. 2 whites of egg whipped. The shells crushed. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan together. Whisk until they boil. Boil up well. Strain through a clean cloth scalded. Return through the cloth until clear, each time putting a basin rinsed with hot water underneath. When clear, set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water, or the jelly may be set in one large mould. / MILK JELLY. 1 pint of milk. tj oz. of sheet gelatine. H oz. of castor sugar. Strip of lemon rind. Bring the milk and the lemon rind to the boil. When it boils pour it on to the gelatine and sugar in a basin. Stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Let it remain in the basin, stirring from time to time until the mixtui'e attains the consistency of cream. Set in darioles rinsed withSICKROOM COOKERY. 115 cold water. When firm dip into warm water and turn out. N.B.—Unless milk jelly is allowed to partly thicken before being put into tbe mould it will separate and not set. This is tbe only jelly that need be treated in tbis way. Milk jelly, on account of its nutriment, is often allowed to a convalescent amongst tbe first solid food. ORANGE JELLY. . pint of orange juice. \ pint of boiling water. 4 oz. of loaf sugar. Juice of two lemons. Rind of two oranges, tbinly cut. 1 oz. of sheet gelatine. Put tbe water, gelatine, sugar, and orange rinds into a saucepan and bring to tbe boil. Then let it stand by the side of tbe fire for ten minutes, until tbe gelatine is dissolved. Put tbe orange and lemon juice into a basin and strain tbe mixture into them. Set in small dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. When firm dip into warm water and turn on to a cold dish. Tbis jelly is never cleared, as it spoils tbe flavour. It should be bright and transparent, though not quite clear. PORT WINE JELLY. ly pint of port wine. \ oz. of gelatine. 1 gill of water. \ oz. of loaf sugar. 1 teaspoonful of red currant jelly. Dissolve the gelatine gently in tbe water, add tbe sugar and red currant jelly. Stir until dissolved. Add tbe116 SICKROOM COOKERY. port, colour with cochineal, and strain at once through muslin. Set in small darioles and turn out when firm. For a large mould make double quantity. Useful in throat disorders, or for hoarseness. RICE JELLY. 2 oz. of rice. m 1 quart of water. 1 inch of cinnamon. Sugar to taste. Wash the rice and put it into the boiling water with the cinnamon. Boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour until the water is thick and starchy. Strain and sweeten to taste. Set in little moulds rinsed with water, and when firm turn out. Useful in dysentery or diarrhoea. WINE JELLY. \ pint of sherry or Marsala. 1^ pint of water. j pint of lemon juice. 6 oz. of loaf sugar. 2 cloves. 1 inch of cinnamon. The rind of two lemons. oz. of sheet gelatine. 2 whites of egg whipped and the shells crushed. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan and whisk until they boil. Boil up well, then strain through a clean coarse cloth scalded. This cloth should be tied on a soup stand or on the legs of a chair reversed. Return the117 SICKROOM COOKERY. jelly to tlie cloth until it is clear, each time slipping a clean hot basin underneath instead. Set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, dip for one moment into warm water, wipe the top of the mould, and with a gentle shake turn on to a cold dish. TO BOIL A PUDDING. 1st.—Put on a large saucepan of water to boil. 2nd.—Thoroughly grease a pudding basin with dripping. 3rd.—Scald and flour the pudding cloth, tie it on, allowing room for the pudding to swell. The mixture should fill the basin or the water will soak in. 4th.—Plunge the pudding into the saucepan of boiling water. There must be sufficient water to cover the pud- ding. The water must he kept boiling all the time, and if it boils away more boiling water must be added to it. 5th.—Most boiled puddings, unless very small, take two hours to cook, though a rich pudding will take four or five hours to boil. 6th.—When done take up, remove the pudding cloth, and let it stand for one minute. It will shrink from the sides of the basin and turn out more easily. Turn on to a hot dish. TO STEAM A PUDDING. 1st.—If a steamer is not available, put an inch and a half of water into a saucepan and bring to the boil. 2nd.—Place the pudding in a greased pudding basin or mould, and cover with a greased paper. The mixture may or may not fill the basin, just as convenient. 3rd.—Put the basin into the saucepan, put the lid on and simmer very gently until cooked. If the water boils away more boiling water must be added.118 SICKROOM COOKERY. 4th.—Most puddings take from one hour to two to steam, according to size and the ingredients used. Puddings of the nature of custards must be tested by touching with the finger. When as firm in the centre as at the edge they are generally cooked. Turn on to a hot dish. APPLE AND CREAM. 1 lb. of cooking apples. 3 oz. of castor sugar. ■j juice of lemon. 1 gill of cream whipped. Peel, core, and quarter the apples. Put them into a saucepan with the sugar, lemon juice, and two table- spoonfuls of cold water. Stew until reduced to a pulp. Beat well and serve in jelly glasses with a little whipped cream on top, or in a glass dish. If liked, the whipped cream may be stirred lightly through the apple mixture and served in the same manner. APPLES WITH CUSTARD SAUCE. 4 apples. 4 oz. of sugar. \ pint of water. 1 inch of cinnamon. Cochineal. Peel and core the apples, keeping them whole, and place in a piedish. Boil the water, sugar, and cinnamon together, and pour over. Cover and bake in a slow oven until tender. Be careful not to overcook or they will119 SICKROOM COOKERY. break. Serve on a hot disk, colour the syrup with cochineal, and strain over. If liked, make a custard with one egg, one gill of milk, and a teaspoonful of sugar, and pour round the apples instead of the syrup. APPLE MERINGUE. 1 lb. of apples. 1 lemon, rind and juice. 3 oz. of sugar. 2 oz. of butter. 2 eggs. Put the butter into a white saucepan, add the apples peeled and cut up, the sugar, and the rind and juice of a lemon. Simmer until tender. Rub through a hair sieve, then stir in the yolks of eggs, and place in a small piedisli. Bake in the oven for eight minutes. Whip the whites of egg to a stiff froth, place on top of the pudding, shaking plenty of castor sugar through the white of egg. Bake for three minutes to set the meringue. Serve. APPLES AND SAGO. 4 apples. 1 pint of water. 2 oz. of sugar. 1 oz of sago or crushed tapioca. \ lemon, rind and juice. Cochineal. Bring the water to the boil, sift in the sago, and cook until clear, stirring all the time. Add the lemon rind grated, the juice, sugar, and the apples, peeled and cored. Draw to the side of the fire, cook very gently until the apples are tender. Serve on a hot dish. Colour the syrup if liked.120 SICKROOM COOKERY. APPLE SNOW. 3 apples. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. 1 strip of lemon rind. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 1 white of egg. Peel, core, aud quarter tbe apples. Pat them into a saucepan with a thinly cut strip of lemon rind and the water. Stew until soft, remove the lemon rind, and heat the apple to a pulp. Whip the white of egg very stiffly, and lightly stir in the apple pulp, add the sugar, and whisk until stiff. Serve in jelly glasses or on a glass dish. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 4 oz. of flour. 2 eggs. \ pint of milk, teaspoonful of salt. Sift the flour and salt into a basin, add the eggs, and stir the milk in gradually. Beat well, and if possible let it stand for twenty minutes. Put in a well-greased pudding basin, scald and flour a cloth and tie it over the top. Boil for one hour. Serve with a little castor sugar or sweet sauce. BOILED SUET PUDDING. \ lb. of flour. 2 oz. of suet. 1 teaspoonful of salt. Cold water. Sift the flour and salt into a basin, shred the suet and chop it with the flour. Mix to a stiff paste with coldSICKROOM COOKERY. 121 water. Wring a pudding clotli out in boiling Avater, flour it well, roll tbe pudding into tbe sliape of a ioly- poly, and put it into tbe clotb. Tie at eacb end and put a loose band round tbe centre. Plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, boil for two hours and serve. It may be eaten with a little sugar or golden syrup. Beef suet makes a richer pudding, but mutton suet is more digestible. This pudding may be put in a greased basin and steamed, which is even lighter. BISCUIT PUDDING. / 2 eggs. 3 oz. of castor sugar. 3 oz. of ground rice or flour. \ teaspoonful of baking powder. V anilla. Put the eggs and castor sugar into a basin, and Avith a whisk beat them to a thick creamy froth. With an iron spoon lightly stir in the ground rice, baking powder, and a few drops of vanilla if liked. Butter some small dariole moulds, or little tins, three parts fill with the mixture and bake for twenty minutes. Turn out and serve Avith Avine or jam sauce. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 3 thin slices of bread and butter. \ pint of milk. 1 egg. \ dessertspoonful of sugar. Cut three slices of thin bread and butter. Cut off the crust, and divide into squares. Put these into a Avell buttered piedish. Beat up the egg, add the milk and sugar, and pour into the piedish. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes until lightly browned.SICKROOM COOKERY. 122 BREAD AND MILK. 1 thick slice of bread. \ pint of milk. Sngar to taste. Cut the bread into dice, removing the cmst. Pnt it into a breakfast cup or small basin. Boil the milk and pour over. Serve with sugar or salt. It should not be too thick with bread. The bread may be boiled in the milk for a few seconds which many prefer. CASTLE PUDDING. 1 egg. Its weight in each of Butter, Castor sugar, Flour. teaspoonful of baking powder. g teaspoonfnl of grated lemon rind. Cream the butter and sugar together, beat in the egg until the mixture is light and creamy. Sift the flour' and baking powder together, add the grated lemon rind, and stir lightly in. Three parts fill some buttered darioles or moulds, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn out and serve with wine or jam sauce. This pudding may be steamed, in which case omit the lemon rind. Steam for fifty minutes. CARAMEL CUSTARD. Caramel: 4 oz. of loaf sugar. 1 gill of water.123 SICKROOM COOKERY. Custard: \ pint of milk. 4 yolks of egg. 2 whites of egg. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil without stirring until the mixture turns a golden toffee colour. Pour at once into a plain dry souffle tin or cake mould. Turn gently round until the caramel .coats every portion of the mould, and sets. Beat the eggs and castor sugar together ; boil the milk and pour it on to them. Strain into the prepared mould. Cover with a buttered paper. Steam as slowly as possible until firm. Let it cool, and turn on to a dish. If the water is allowed to boil, the pudding will be full of holes. It must barely simmer. CARAMEL RICE. Caramel: lb. of loaf sugar. 1 gill of water. Rice: \ lb. of rice. 1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. 1 oz. of castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar and water into a small saucepan and boil until the mixture turns a golden toffee colour. Pour at once into a perfectly dry souffle mould or basin. Let it coat it all over. It will soon set. Put the rice and milk into a saucepan, and simmer very gently for about one hour, until the rice is quite tender. Take off the fire, stir in the castor sugar and the eggs well beaten. Pour into the mould, cover withSICKROOM COOKERY. 124 a buttered paper, and steam for three-quarters of an hour Turn out and let the caramel sauce run round the dish. CHOCOLATE MOULD. J lb. of chocolate grated. 1 pint of milk. 1 oz. of sugar. i oz. of sheet gelatine. Y anilla. Soak the gelatine and sugar in one gill of milk in a basin. Boil the other three gills with the grated chocolate and pour it on to the gelatine. Flavour with vanilla, and stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm dip into warm water and turn on to a dish. If wished set in dariole moulds. COFFEE MOULD. 1 pint of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of coffee essence, lj oz. of castor sugar. ^ oz. of sheet gelatine. Put the gelatine and castor sugar into a basin; boil the milk and pour it on. Add sufficient coffee essence to flavour the milk well. Stir in the basin from time to time, until the mixture becomes creamy. Set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm turn out. CUSTAED MOULD. 3 eggs. 1 pint of milk. 1 oz. of castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Vanilla. ^ oz. of sheet gelatine. Make a custard with the eggs, milk and sugar. WhenSICKROOM COOKERY. 125 cooked pour it on to the sheet gelatine in a basin. Add the brandy and vanilla. Stir until dissolved. Set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. When firm turn out and serve with fruit syrup round. The brandy may be omitted. CORNFLOUR BLANCMANGE. IE oz. of cornflower or arrowroot. 1 pint of milk. 1^ oz. of castor sugar. Strip of lemon rind or cinnamon. Put the milk and lemon rind on to boil. Blend the cornflour with a little cold milk until smooth. Pour the boiling milk on to this, return to the saucepan and boil gently for six minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the lemon rind and add the sugar. Set in darioles, or one mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, loosen round the edge, shake, and turn into a dish. Cornflour or arrowroot must be very thoroughly boiled to cook the starch and render it digestible. It will thicken when the hot milk is poured on, but this is not sufficient; it must be well boiled or it will be neither digestible nor pleasant in flavour. GROUND RICE BLANCMANGE. 2 oz. of ground rice. 1 pint of milk. 1^ oz. of castor sugar. 1 strip of lemon rind or vanilla essence. Make as in preceding recipe for cornflour blancmange.SICKROOM COOKERY. 126 CUSTARD PUDDING. 2 eggs. \ pint of milk. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. Beat tlie eggs slightly in a basin, add the milk and sugar. Pour into a buttered piedisb, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. If quickly cooked it will separate, become watery and full of boles. BOILED CUSTARD. \ pint of milk. 3 yolks of egg. 1 white of egg. \ tablespoonful of sugar. Vanilla or flavouring. Put the milk on to boil, beat the eggs and sugar in a basin, and pour the hot milk on to them. Return to the saucepan, and stir carefully until it thickens. Do not boil, or it will curdle. Strain into a basin and add the flavouring. Serve in custard glasses or on a glass dish. The whites of eggs make a custard thick, the yolks give it richness. Two 'whole eggs to one pint of milk will make a thick plain custard. RICE CREAMS. 1^ oz. of rice. \ pint of milk. 1 gill of cream. 1 tablespoonful of sherry. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Simmer the rice gently in the milk until tender. Strain, and put on a sieve to drain. Whip the cream, stir in tlie rice, add the sherry and sugar to taste. Serve in custard glasses or on a small glass dish.SICKROOM COOKERY. 127 VELVET CREAM. \ pint of cream. 1 glass of sherry or brandy, i oz. of sheet gelatine. \ gill of water. 1 oz. of sugar. Whip the cream, melt the gelatine in the water, add the sugar and sherry. Strain into the cream. Mix lightly together. Set in little moulds rinsed with water or in one large mould. When firm dip for one moment into warm water and turn out. VANILLA CREAM. \ pint of cream. 1 oz. of castor sugar. J teaspoonful of yanilla essence. £ oz. of sheet gelatine. \ gill of water. Whip the cream, add the castor sugar and yanilla essence to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the water and strain into the cream. Mix well, and set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water, or in one fancy mould if desired. When set, dip into warm water for one moment, and turn out. EIG MOULD. \ lb. of figs. 1 pint of water. 1 lemon, rind and juice. 3 oz. of sugar. \ oz. of sheet gelatine. Cut the figs with a sharp knife into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with the water, grated lemon rind, juice and sugar. Simmer until the figs are tender. Melt the gelatine in half a gill of water, and strain in128 SICKROOM COOKERY. Set in small moulds rinsed with, cold water. When firm dip into warm water and turn on to a cold dish. Serve with a little whipped cream, if allowed. If liked, omit one gill of water and add one gill of claret. STEWED FIGS. \ lb. of figs. \ pint of water. 3 oz. of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Put the figs into a stone jar and pour the water over, add the lemon juice, and cover. Place in a slow oven for two hours, or they may he cooked gently in a saucepan until tender. Serve in a small glass dish, with a glass of custard, if allowed, or a sponge cake. STEWED PRUNES. \ lb. of prunes. \ pint of water. 3 oz. of sugar. \ juice of a lemon. Rinse the prunes well, then put them to soak in half a pint of cold water the day before they are to be cooked. When soaked, add the sugar and lemon juice, put all into a stone jar, cover, and cook in a slow oven for two hours. Serve in a glass dish, with a little junket, if allowed. The prunes sold loose by the pound are sufficiently good for stewing. STEWED FRUIT. 1 lb. of fruit. 1 gill of water. 4 oz. of sugar. If stewing apples or pears, peel, quarter and core them.SICKROOM COOKERY. 129 Other fruits should be wiped, the stalks removed, cut open, and the stone taken out. Gooseberries should have the ends cut off, and rhubarb should be sliced; if at all old the skin should be peeled off. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Add the fruit, and stew gently until tender. Serve in a glass dish. If the fruit can be stewed in a casserole or lined saucepan it will be more delicate in flavour. FRIAR’S OMELET. 4 apples. 2 oz. of sugar. 1 oz. of butter. \ a lemon. 1 egg. 2 oz. of breadcrumbs. Stew the apples with the sugar, butter, the grated rind and juice of the lemon. When quite smooth, take off the fire and stir in the egg well beaten. Put half the breadcrumbs at the bottom of a piedish and pour in the mixture. Cover with the rest of the breadcrumbs and a few scraps of butter, and bake for a quarter of an hour, LEMON SPONGE. % pint of water. ^ oz. of sheet gelatine. 1 lemon, rind and juice. 1 oz. of sugar. 1 white of egg. Put the water, gelatine, sugar and thinly-cut lemon rind into a saucepan; make very hot and dissolve the gelatine. Put the white of egg and lemon juice into a large basin and strain in the hot liquid. KSICKROOM COOKERY. 130 Whisk all together until quite stiff. Pile up in rocky heaps on a dish, and, if liked, add one drop of cochineal to the last portion, and put it on top. Or the sponge may be set in a mould rinsed with cold water, and turned out when firm. JUNKET. 1 pint of milk. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Junket powder, or 1 tablespoonful of essence of rennet. Heat the milk to the natural heat, 98° Fall. Put it into a glass bowl, add the sugar, and then put in the junket powder or essence of rennet. Allow it to stand perfectly still until set. It will take about an hour and a half. If junket powder is used, a measure is given with it, indi- cating the quantity of powder to be used. Junket is very nutritious, refreshing and digestible, useful for conva- lescents, and, in some cases, for fever patients. (Junket powder is generally preferable to the liquid essence, being more certain in its results.) MACARONI PUDDING • 2 oz. of macaroni. \ pint of milk. 1 oz. of sugar. 1 egg. Flavouring. Break the macaroni across and put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for fifty minutes until tender. Drain and cut into half-inch lengths. Cook gently in the milk for ten minutes, add the sugar, the egg well beaten, and any flavouring liked. Place in a buttered piedish and bake for twenty minutes. Spaghetti may bo used in the same manner.131 SICKROOM COOKERY. MADEIRA PUDDING. 4 oz. of bread in dice. 2 oz. of castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. 2 eggs. 1 wineglassful of sherry. \ pint of milk. Cut the bread into dice and put into a basin with the castor sugar. Make the milk hot and pour on to the eggs beaten up, add the sherry, and pour over the dice of bread. Mix and let it soak for ten minutes. Butter a mould with clarified butter and pour the mixture in. Cover with a buttered paper and steam for two hours. Turn out and serve with custard sauce round. Half quantity of the mixture will be sufficient for a small pudding. PRUNE MOULD. \ lb. of prunes. 1 pint of water. 2 oz. of sugar. rind and juice of a lemon. ^ oz. of sheet gelatine. Cochineal. (1 glass of brandy, or Marsala, if liked.) Split the prunes, and take out the stones. Put the prunes, water, sugar, rind and juice of lemon into a saucepan and simmer for about twenty minutes until tender. Melt the gelatine in half a gill of water, and strain in. Add the brandy and brighten with cochineal. Set in little moulds rinsed with cold water, or in one large mould. When firm dip into warm water and turn out. K 2SICKROOM COOKERY. 132 QUEEN OF BREAD PUDDINGS. 2 oz. of breadcrumbs. h pint of milk. ^ oz. of bntter. 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. lemon, juice, and grated rind. 1 egg. Put tbe milk, butter, breadcrumbs, and sugar, into a saucepan and bring slowly to tbe boil. Take it oif tbe fire, add tbe lemon juice, rind, and yolk of egg. Place the mixture in a buttered piedish and bake for ten minutes. Whip tbe white of egg stiffly, lightly stir a dessertspoonful of castor sugar through it, and place in rocky heaps on top of the pudding. Set in the oven for four minutes. If lemon flavouring is objected to, omit the lemon, and use a few drops of vanilla. A little apricot jam may be served with the pudding, if allowed. RICE PUDDING. 1 oz. of rice. \ pint of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 1 egg. (Optional.) Simmer the rice very gently in the milk until tender. Let it cool a little, stir in the castor sugar and the egg well beaten (if using one). Pour into a buttered piedish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. An egg adds nourishment to the pudding, but at the same time renders it less easy of digestion.SICKROOM COOKERY. 133 RICE SHAPE. 4 oz. of rice. 1 pint of milk. 1| oz. of castor sugar. 1 egg. 1 strip of lemon rind. Cook the rice very slowly in the milk, with, a strip of lemon rind for flavour. W hen quite tender take off tlie fire, add the sugar and an egg beaten up. Butter a plain mould well, and put the mixture in. Cover with a buttered paper, and bake or steam for forty minutes, until firm. Turn out and pour a good custard sauce round and over. (See “ Sauces.”) WHOLE RICE MOULD. 2 oz. of rice. 1 pint of milk. llj oz. of castor sugar. Strip of lemon rind. Simmer the rice, strip of lemon rind, sugar, and milk very gently together until the rice is tender and the milk almost absorbed. Take out the lemon rind, and set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, loosen round the edge, shake and turn on to a cold dish. Serve with a little preserve or stewed fruit. GROUND RICE, SEMOLINA, OR FLORADOR PUDDING. 1 oz. of ground rice, semolina, or fiorador. pint of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. 1 egg. (Optional.) Bring the milk to the boil, sift the ground rice, or134 SICKROOM COOKERY. whatever is being used, lightly in, stir with a wooden spoon and cook for ten minutes. Add the sugar, and when a little cool stir in the egg well beaten. Bake in a buttered piedish for ten minutes. The egg may be omitted in these puddings if desired. Patent barley or groats may be used in the same way, blended with a little of the cold milk, and poured in to the rest of the milk, when boiling. SAGO OR TAPIOCA PUDDING. 1 oz. of sago or tapioca. | pint of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 1 egg. (Optional.) Soak the sago in the milk for fifteen minutes. Cook slowly in a saucepan until clear. If the milk evaporates add a little more. Add the sugar, and, when a little cool, the egg beaten.( Bake in a buttered piedish for rifteen minutes. Pearl barley may be used in the same way, but should be blanched before it is used. If desirable a small piece of butter may be stirred into any farinaceous pudding before it is baked. SAGO SNOW. 1 oz. of sago. 1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. 1 oz. of castor sugar. Vanilla. Boil the milk, sift in the sago and stir until clear. Add the sugar, vanilla, and the yolks of egg. Stir quickly iu.SICKROOM COOKERY. 135 Cook for one moment longer and turn into a glass dish. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth and add a teaspoon- ful of castor sugar. Boil three tablespoonfuls of milk in a saucepan and drop the egg in, in rocky pieces. Let the milk boil underneath for one moment to set the egg; drain and serve these flakes on top of the sago custard. SPONGE PUDDING. 3 penny sponge cakes or rusks. 1 glass of sherry or brandy. ^ pint of milk. 1 egg. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Slice the sponge cakes lengthways, then cut them across. Place in a piedish and pour the sherry or brandy over. Beat the egg, add the milk and sugar, and pour over the sponge cakes. Let this soak for five minutes, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. 2 penny sponge cakes. 1 egg. llj gill of milk. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 spoonful of jam. Slice the sponge cakes lengthwise, and spread a little jam between. Place it together and cut across in three. Put these fingers close together in a small glass dish. Boil the milk and pour it on to the beaten egg and sugar. Return to the saucepan and stir until the custard thickens. Flavour as desired, let it cool in a basin, then pour over the sponge cakes.SICKROOM COOKERY. 136 ARROWROOT SOUFFLE. 1 tablespoonful of arrowroot or cornflower. \ pint of milk. 1 egg- 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Mix tlie arrowroot with a little cold milk until smooth. Boil half a pint of milk and pour on to the arrowroot. Return to the saucepan and boil for three minutes. Let it cool, add the sugar, and stir in the yolks of egg. Beat up the whites of egg to a stiff froth and stir lightly into the mixture. Bake into a buttered piedish for ten minutes. This makes a nice light pudding, and derives its nourish- ment from the milk and egg. OMELET SOUFFLE. 2 yolks of egg. 3 whites of egg. oz. of castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful of flour (J oz.). J teaspoonful of vanilla essence. 1 tablespoonful of jam. Put the yolks of egg, well drained, and the castor sugar into a basin, and stir them with a "wooden spoon to a thick cream. With an iron spoon lightly stir in the flour, vanilla, and the whites whipped to a very stiff froth. Place in a buttered omelet pan and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Turn on to a sugared paper, place the warm jam in the centre, and fold over. For buttering the omelet pan, clarified butter must be used, or it will stick. (Boil the butter up and skim well before using.)137 SICKROOM COOKERY. VANILLA SOUFFLE. ^ oz. of butter. \ oz. of flour. \ gill of milk. 2 yolks of egg. 2 whites of egg. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Vanilla essence. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and cook until it draws into a ball round the spoon, and leaves the sides of the pan clean. This is called a panada. Let it cool, add the sugar, and the yolks of egg one at a time, beating well together. Lightly stir in the whites of egg stiffly whipped. Butter a small souffle mould with clarified butter, put the mixture in and cover with a buttered paper. Steam for forty minutes very gently. Turn out and serve Avith Avine or jam sauce. This souffle may be put into a buttered piedish and baked, but is lighter steamed. VERMICELLI PUDDING. \ pint of milk. \ oz. of vermicelli. 1 egg. ^ oz. of butter. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. \ teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Put the milk on to boil, break the vermicelli into pieces and shake it in. Boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Let this cool a little, stir in the sugar, butter, the egg well beaten, and the lemon rind. Pour into a buttered piedish and bake in a very moderate oven for thirty minutes.138 SICKROOM COOKERY. SIMPLE TRIFLE. 4 penny sponge cakes. Apricot jam. 1 glass of sherry. g pint of milk. 2 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. g gill of cream. Slice the sponge cakes lengthwise, spread a little jam between, place in a glass dish and cut them across. Pour the sherry over. Boil the milk and pour it on to the eggs well beaten, add the sugar and return to the saucepan. Stir gently over the fire until this custard thickens, allow it to go cold, then pour it over the sponge cakes. Whip the cream and place in rocky flakes on top.139 BREAD, BISCUITS AND CAKES. Light, spongy and well-baked bread is most important, and directions for it are her? given. In many outlying districts it is impossible to obtain really well-made bread; and with very little trouble it can be made most success- fully in any ordinary household. A few wholesome light cakes and biscuits are included amongst the recipes. Cakes, such as sponge cakes, made without butter, are the most easily digested. All fruits or candied peel must be carefully avoided as they are most indigestible, and in no case permissible. RULES FOR BREAD. 1st. Add one teaspoonful of salt to each pound of floui or the bread will be insipid. 2nd. Rub the yeast and castor sugar together with a wooden spoon until liquid. This is the easiest way of dissolving the yeast, and it also proves that the yeast is good. 3rd. The water for mixing bread must be only just tepid or it will kill the yeast and the bread will not rise. There must also be very little heat where the bread is put to rise. 4th. When ready, bake in a quick oven to kill the yeast, and finish at a lower degree of heat. 5th. Use household flour for bread, as it contains moreSICKROOM COOKERY. 140 nourishment than the finer flour, as has already been explained in the chapter on food values. 6th. Half an ounce of yeast will raise up to three pounds of flour. One ounce will raise up to seven pounds of flour. One and a half ounce of yeast will raise up to ten pounds of flour, and two ounces will raise fourteen pounds of flour. Home-made bread is more wholesome than bought bread, and in districts where fuel is cheap it is also economical, as it goes much farther. RULES FOR BAKING BREAD OR CAKES. 1st. Make up the fire and see that the oven is in order. Line the cake tin with buttered paper. For small moulds brush over with butter. 2nd. Bake in a quick oven to begin with, then remove to a cooler shelf, and cook at a lower degree of heat. 3rd. If the cake begins to brown cover with a paper. 4th. Do not bang the oven door. It sends in a cold draught of air, and with light cakes checks their rising. 5th. To try when done, put a skewer into the cake. If it comes out clean the cake is cooked; if there is dough clinging to it, the cake needs longer cooking. 6th. Place on its side or in a sieve to cool. In this way the steam escapes and prevents the cake becoming heavy. BREAD. (1 HALF-QUARTERN LOAF.) 1| lb. of household flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt, i oz. of German yeast. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. | pint of tepid water. Sift the flour and salt into a basin. Put the yeast and141 SICKROOM COOKERY. castor sugar into a small basin; rnb it with, a wooden spoon until it becomes liquid. Add the tepid water to the yeast and stir into the centre of the flour. Sprinkle a little flour over, cover, and place it in a warm place to rise. There must not be much heat. Let it rise for twenty minutes, then mix it all up to a dough. Cover, and put to rise again for one hour and a half. Knead for three minutes on a pastry board. Grease and flour a loaf tin and put the dough into it. It should only half fill it. Cover, and let it rise once more in a gentle heat for half an hour, until the dough has risen to the top of the tin. Bake in a quick oven for one hour. For larger quantities increase the flour and water, but the yeast only in moderate proportion (see “ Rules for Bread”). HOVIS OR WHOLEMEAL BREAD. 1 lb. of wholemeal or Hovis flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. ■5 oz. of German yeast. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. 1 gill of water. | gill of milk. Put the wholemeal and salt into a basin, cream the yeast and sugar until liquid. Put the milk and water into a saucepan and make them just tepid, pour on to the yeast, and strain into the centre of the wholemeal. Cover, and let it stand in a gentle heat for thirty minutes. Then mix it up to a dough. Put at once into a well-greased small loaf or cake tin, and let it stand for forty minutes until it has risen to the top of the tin. Bake for about three-quarters of an hour. The dough when first put in should just half fill the tin.142 SICKROOM COOKERY. VIENNA ROLLS OR BREAD. 1 lb. of Vienna or pastry flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. \ oz. of German yeast. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. 1 oz. of butter. ^ pint of milk. 1 egg. Sift tbe flour and salt into a basin; rub the yeast and castor sugar in a small basin with a wooden spoon until liquid. Melt tbe butter in a saucepan, add tbe milk and make it just tepid. Pour on to tbe yeast and add tbe egg well beaten. Strain into tbe flour. Mix all up to a dougb, adding a little more tepid milk if necessary. Cover and let tbis rise in a gentle beat for two hours. Make into fancy twists, plaits, or borse-sboes. Place on a ligbtly-buttered baking tin, coyer, and let tbe rolls rise for balf an boiir. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Brush over with a teaspoonful of milk and butter, heated together, to give tbe rolls a nice gloss. BISCUITS. MILK BISCUITS. £ lb. of flour. \ teaspoonful of baking powder, i oz. of butter. £ gill of milk. Sift tbe flour and baking powder into a basin. Melt tbe butter and milk together in a saucepan, and pour when hot on to tbe flour. Mix all quickly to a smooth dougb. Roll out very thinly, and stamp out with a small143 SICKROOM COOKERY. round cutter or wine glass. Make small holes in each with a skewer. Bake for about fifteen minutes. OATMEAL BISCUITS. £ lb. of oatmeal. 2 oz. of flour. i oz. of castor sugar, or 1 teaspoonful of salt. 2 oz. of butter. Is teaspoonful of baking powder. 1 egg- Put the oatmeal, flour, baking powder and castor sugar into a basin and mix them well together. Melt the butter in a saucepan and pour it in. Add sufficient beaten egg to mix to a stiff paste, adding it just as needed. Roll out one eighth of an inch in thickness. Cut into squares or rounds. Bake in a very moderate oven for twenty minutes. They must be a pale fawn colour and should be crisp. If liked, leave out the sugar and use salt. SHREWSBURY BISCUITS. 2 oz. of butter. 2 oz. of castor sugar. f an egg. 4 oz. of flour. \ teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg and grated lemon rind. Stir in the flour lightly. Roll out one eighth of an inch in thickness. Stamp into round cakes, place on a greased baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Be careful in adding the egg, as they must be only moist enough to bind, or the biscuits will be difficult to roll out.SICKROOM COOKERY. 144 WHOLEMEAL BISCUITS. 6 oz. of wholemeal or Hovis flour. 1-| oz. of butter. £ teaspoonful of salt. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of water if needed. Put the wholemeal and salt into a basin, melt the butter and pour it in. Beat the eggs well, and stir in sufficient to bind to a stiff paste. If more moisture is needed add a little water. Roll out to the thickness of biscuits, stamp into small rounds, and make some boles with a skewer. Bake for fifteen minutes in a good oven, but do not brown. A dessertspoonful of sugar may be used instead of the salt if liked. CAKES. CORNFLOUR CAKES. 2 oz. of butter. 3 oz. of castor sugar’. 2 eggs. 2 oz. of flour. 1 oz. of cornflour. J teaspoonful of baking powder. Butter some small cake moulds or patty tins, and dust with flour’ and sugar. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one by one, beating well. Sift the flour, cornflour, and baking powder together, and lightly stir in. Place the mixture in the patty pans and bake for fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Ground rice may be used instead of the cornflour, or all flour may be used iu this recipe.SICKROOM COOKERY. 145 GENOESE CAKE. 4 eggs. 4 oz. of castor sugar. 3 oz. of butter. 3 oz. of flour. Line a cake tin with buttered paper. Put the eggs and castor sugar into a basin, place over a pan of hot water, and beat with a whisk to a creamy froth. Melt the butter and stir it in lightly, alteimately with the flour. Pour into the cake tin, and bake for fifty minutes in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD. | lb. of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger (i oz.) \ lb. of syrup or treacle. J lb. of sugar. j- lb. of butter or dripping. 1 egg. -iy level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. | gill of milk. Sift the flour and ground ginger into a basin. Melt tlie butter in a saucepan, add the treacle and sugar, and melt all together. Stir this into the flour, add the egg well beaten, and lastly blend the soda thoroughly with the milk, and stir it in. Place in a well-buttered cake tin, and bake in a very moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. INVALID CAKE. 1 egg. Its weight in butter, sugar and flour. I; teaspoouful of grated lemon rind. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the L146 SICKROOM COOKERY. egg well, and lastly stir in the flour and lemon rind lightly. Bake in a small buttered tin for fifteen minutes. MADEIRA CAKE. 5 oz. of butter. 5 oz. of castor sugar. 4 eggs. 8 oz. of flour. 7j teaspoonful of baking powder. \ teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon. Add the eggs one by one, beating them well in. Sift the flour and baking powder together, and lightly stir them in with the lemon rind. Place in a well- buttered cake tin, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. QUEEN’S CAKES. 2 oz. of butter. 2 oz. of sugar. 2 eggs. 3 oz. of flour. 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. \ teaspoonful of baking powder. Butter some small queen’s cake or dariole moulds with clarified butter. Stir the butter and sugar together in a basin with a wooden spoon until quite creamy. Beat in the eggs one by one until thoroughly mixed. Lightly stir in the flour and baking powder, and add the lemon rind. Three- quarters fill the moulds, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes.147 SICKROOM COOKERY. RICE CAKES. 2 oz. of butter. 3 oz. of castor sugar. 2 eggs. 2 oz. of flour. 4 oz. of ground rice. J teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat tbe sugar and butter together to a thick cream. Add the eggs one at a time, beating well in. Sift the flour, ground rice, and baking powder together, and stir lightly into the mixture. Have some patty tins well buttered, and dusted over with a teaspoonful of flour and sugar mixed. Place the mixture in these, and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. SEED CAKE. ^ lb. of flour. | lb. of butter. j lb. of castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful of carraway seeds. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 2 eggs. \ gill of milk. Rub the butter into the flour with the fingers, add the castor sugar, seeds, and baking powder. Beat the eggs and milk together and lightly stir in. Bake in a tin lined with buttered paper for one hour and a half. SIMPLE SPONGE CAKES. 2 eggs. 2 oz. of castor sugar. 2 oz. of flour. Butter a sponge cake mould with six divisions, such as are sold for penny sponge cakes. Mix a teaspoonful of l 2SICKROOM COOKERY. 148 castor sugar and flour together, and dust it lightly over. Or one small cake tin may be used. Put the eggs and castor sugar into a large basin, and beat them with a whisk to a thick creamy froth. This will take several minutes. Then lightly stir in the flour with an iron spoon. Place the mixture in the moulds and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. When firm and a pale fawn, turn out, and let them cool on a sieve. SPONGE CAKE. 4 eggs. 4 oz. of loaf sugar. 4 gill of water. 4 oz. of Vienna or pastry flour. Brush a sponge-cake mould well over inside with salad oil. Mix a tablespoonful of castor sugar and flour together and shake it well over. This makes a smooth coating for the cake. Put the water and loaf sugar into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and boil for two minutes. Commence to whisk the eggs in a large basin and pour the boiling syruj) on to them. Go on whisking for about six minutes until it is a thick creamy froth. Then lightly stir in the flour with an iron spoon. Put the mixture into the mould and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. LIGHT TEA CAKES. 1 lb. of flour. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of castor sugar. 4 oz. of German yeast. 4 pint of tepid milk. Rub the butter into the flour and add the castor sugar.149 SICKROOM COOKERY. Rub the yeast with one teaspoonful of castor sugar in a small basin until liquid. Make the milk just tepid and pour it on to the yeast. Strain into the flour and mix all un to a dough. Cover, and let this rise in a gentle heat for an hour1 and a half. Turn the dough out. Cut into six even-sized pieces, make each into a round cake, and place on a slightly greased baking tin to rise. Let them rise for half an hour. Space must be allowed for spread- ing between each cake. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. | lb. of flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt, oz. of German yeast. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. 1 oz. of butter. H gill of milk. 1 egg. Put the flour and salt into a basin. Cream the yeast and sugar until liquid. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the milk to it and make it just tepid, pour on to the yeast and add the egg, well beaten. Stir into the flour and mix all up to a dough. Cut into two round cakes. Grease two small cake tins with dripping and put them in. Let these rise in a gentle heat to the top of the tins Bake for twenty minutes in a good oven. MILK ROLLS. \ lb. of flour. 1 oz. of butter. 1 gill of milk. 1 large teaspoonful of baking powder. ■g teaspoonful of salt. Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder together into aSICKROOM COOKERY. 150 basin. Rub the butter into the flour with the tips of the fingers. Add the milk and mix quickly to a dry dough. Turn on to a floured board, roll into a narrow roly-poly. Cut across with a floured knife into inch slices. Place on a slightly buttered baking tin and bake for about fifteen minutes in a quick oven. If much time is spent in rolling into fancy shapes, these rolls will be heavy. The light- ness depends on the expedition in making up, after the mixture is moistened. MILK SCONES. ^ lb. of flour. 1 level teaspoonful of cream of tartar. ^ level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 1^ oz. of butter. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. J pint of milk. Pass the flour, cream of tartar, and carbonate of soda through a wire sieve into a basin. Rub the butter into the flour with the fingers. Add the sugar, and mix to a dry paste with the milk. Roll out quickly about half an inch in thickness, and stamp out with a small cutter or a wine glass. Put on a lightly buttered tin and bake in a good oven for fifteen minutes. Omit the sugar and add half a teaspoonful of salt if liked.151 EGG DISHES. Eggs are extremely nutritious, containing all the nourishment necessary for life in a most concentrated form. They are very quickly digested when raw. If lightly poached or boiled they are also easily digested, but if over-cooked or hard-boiled the albumen coagulates, and they immediately become very difficult of digestion. Both yolk and white of egg are rich in albumen, the yolk being richer than the white. Special directions for preparing tempting and nourishing egg mixtures will be found in the section devoted to sickroom beverages. TO BOIL AN EGG. Put the egg into boiling water and boil gently for three minutes. If the egg is absolutely fresh it will take four minutes. Be careful in putting it into the saucepan not to crack the shell. If Irked, the egg may be put into cold water, and brought gently to the boil. It will then be sufficiently cooked. A light digestible way of cooking an egg is to put it into a saucepan of boiling water. Draw it off the fire and let it stand where it will keep very hot, but not even simmer, for ten minutes. The egg will be lightly set, and more easily digested than when boiled.152 SICKROOM COOKERY. POACHED EGG. 1 egg. 1 slice of toast, buttered. \ teaspoonful of salt. The egg should be as fresh as possible. Put some water into a small frying pan and add the salt. Break the egg carefully into a cup. When the water begins to simmer at the edge of the pan, slip the egg in carefully. Cook gently until the white is just set. Remove with a slice, trim and dish on the buttered toast. This is one of the lightest ways of cooking an egg. It may be served on cooked spinach if desired, or the toast may be soaked in good gravy instead of being buttered. STEAMED EGG. (CEuf a Madavic.) 1 egg. Chopped parsley. Butter. Butter a china ramakin case and sprinkle with chopped pai-sley. Break the egg carefully and put it in the case. Place in a saucepan with a little boiling water, cover, and let it steam very quietly until the white is lightly set. Serve immediately. The case is sometimes sprinkled with chopped ham.153 BEVERAGES. *04 In this section are included all beverages useful in a sickroom. Some have a very specific value of their own, while others, from long custom, have become popular. It often gives pleasure to be able to make a beverage which is much fancied by the patient, or on which a par- ticular value is set. Many of the hot drinks for colds promote perspiration, and should be taken in bed. Some of the egg mixtures are valuable in cases of weakness, as they can be given between meals and prevent exhaustion without interfering with the appetite for the coming repast. APPLE WATER. 2 large apples. 1 pint of boiling water. A few thin strips of lemon peel. 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. Sugar to taste. Peel and slice the apples. Put them into a jug with the lemon rind, juice, and sugar. Pour over one pint of boiling water. Cover closely until cold, then strain. Roast apples may be used, or the apples and other ingre- dients may be boiled gently in the water for half an hour, then strained. This is a refreshing beverage, and is useful in cases of scurvy.SICKROOM COOKERY. 154 ARROWROOT. + \ pint of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot. 1 teaspoonfnl of castor sugar. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk to a smooth paste. Boil half a pint of milk and pour it on. Return to the saucepan and boil for six minutes, stirring all the time, as arrowroot is never cooked until well boiled. Add the sugar and serve. This is nourishing on account of the milk. Water arrowroot is made in the same way. BARLEY WATER (Thick). 2 oz. of pearl barley. 1 pint of water. Sugar to taste. Blanch the barley, put it into one pint of water, and gently boil down to two-thirds of the liquid. Strain. Add sugar to taste. Barley contains much mucilage, and, by boiling, this is extracted. Milk often sets into thick curds in the stomach, and by the addition of barley water is rendered more digestible. Referring to this Dr. Burney Yeo says: “ Thickening substances or attenuants act purely mechani- cally by, as it were, getting between the particles of casein during coagulation, and so preventing their running together and forming large compact masses. The best for this purpose is barley water or barley jelly.” (“ Barley Jelly,” p. 173.) Barley water will only keep fresh for a few hours, and should be kept in a cool place. When made it should never be heated to boiling point again, as it sets up fermentation and renders it unfit for use.SICKROOM COOKERY. 155 BARLEY WATER (Clear). 2 oz. of pearl barley. 1 thin strip of lemon rind. 1 pint of boiling water. 3 lumps of sugar. Blanch the barley and strain it. This cleanses it and keeps the barley water a good colour. Put the barley, lemon rind and sugar into a jug, and pour the boiling water over. Cover closely and strain when cold. Barley water is used to dilute milk, as it makes it easier of digestion. It is also useful as a drink, being nutritious, pleasant in flavour, and has a cleansing effect on the palate. BLACK-CURRANT TEA. 1 dessertspoonful of black-currant jam. g pint of water. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Put the black-currant jam, the water and sugar into an enamelled saucepan and bring to the boil. Simmer gently for five minutes. Add the lemon juice and serve. Useful as a hot drink for a cold. Or it may be strained and allowed to become cold. It is then used as a beverage to alleviate thirst or hoarseness. BRAN TEA. 2 tablespoonfuls of bran. 1 pint of water. \ oz. of gum arabic. 1 tablespoonful of honey. Boil the bran in the water for fifteen minutes. Add the gum arabic and the honey. Dissolve, and strain tlnough muslin. Useful and soothing' in cases of hoarseness. The gum may be omitted if desired.156 SICKROOM COOKERY. BRANDY AND EGG MIXTURE. {British Pha/rmacopceia.) “ Rub together two yolks of egg and half an ounce of refined sugar, add four ounces of cognac and four ounces of cinnamon water.” “ A more generally useful mixture may be made with half this quantity of brandy.” {Burney Yeo.) For cases of exhaustion. BRANDY AND EGG MIXTURE. {Br. P. Mushett.) 2 oz. of best brandy. 2 oz. of cinnamon water. The yolk of an egg. oz. of loaf sugar. “ Beat the yolk of egg and sugar together, and add the cinnamon water and brandy. From half a teaspoonful to a teaspoonful may be given to infants, and proportionately increased quantities to children, every hour, in extreme weakness. It is one of the most powerful and palatable restoratives known, and often proves of incalculable value.” EGG WINE. 1 egg. }]- pint of hot water. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. ■g glass of sherry or brandy. Beat the egg well in a tumbler. Add the sugar and pour on the hot water. Stir well and add the wine. EGG AND BRANDY. 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful of cold water. 1 tablespoonful of brandy. teaspoonful of castor sugar. Beat up the egg well in a glass. Add the water,SICKROOM COOKERY. 157 brandy, and sweeten to taste. Serve. This mixture is both nutritious and stimulating, and is very quickly digested, as the egg is uncooked. EGG FLIP. 1 egg. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 1 glass of skerry or brandy. Stir the raw yolk of egg and sugar together in a tumbler until creamy. Add the wine. Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth and lightly stir in. This is both nutritious and stimulating in cases of weakness or collapse from fatigue. EGG CORDIAL. (Dr. Burney Yeo.) 1 white of egg. 1 tahlespoonful of cream. 1 tablespoonful of brandy. “ Beat the white of egg to a froth, add a tahlespoonful of cream to a tahlespoonful of brandy.” Serve in a tumbler. EGG NOG. (Bartholdw.) (a nutritive drink in acute disease.) “ Scald some new milk by putting it, contained in .a jug, into a saucepan of boiling water, but it must not bo allowed to boil. When quite cold, heat up a fresh egg with a fork in a tumbler with some sugar; beat up quite to a froth. Add a dessertspoonful of brandy and till up the tumbler with scalded milk.”SICKROOM COOKERY. 158 BEATEN EGG. 1 yolk of egg. 1 glass of skerry, or 1 cup of tea. A yolk of egg can be beaten up, and either a glass of wine added to it or a cup of tea. WHITE OE EGG AND SODA WATER. 1 white of egg. 1 tablespoonful of brandy or lemon juice, tumblerful of soda water. Beat the white of egg to a froth and put it into a tumbler. Add the brandy and fill up with soda water. This is a nutritious drink, sometimes given in acute disease. The yolk of egg can be used in the same way. , WHITE OF EGG AND MILK. 1 white of egg. 1 gill of milk. Flavouring. Boil the milk and let it cool. Whip the white of egg and put into a tumbler, add the milk, and flavour with vanilla or a tablespoonful of brandy. Both nutritious and digestible as a beverage. OLD-FASHIONED CAUDLE. 1 tablespoonful of fine oatmeal. 1 gill of water. ± pint of milk. 1 glass of brandy or sherry. 1 strip of lemon rind. 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Grate of nutmeg. Boil the oatmeal, water, milk and lemon rind togetherSICKROOM COOKERY. 159 for ten minutes. Remove tlie lemon l’ind, add tlie brandy, sugar and nutmeg. Serve liot. The yolk of an egg may be stirred in if liked. CREAM AND BRANDY 1 wineglassful of cream. 1 tablespoonful of cherry brandy. Add the cherry brandy to the cream and serve. Useful as a stimulant for aged patients, to be taken between meals. The cream is an excellent substitute for fat, which they are often unable to digest. CREAM AND SODA. \ a gill of cream. | a tumbler of soda water. Put the cream into a tumbler and fill up with soda water. This is a useful and nutritious drink when milk is forbidden to the patient, or when tea or coffee cannot be taken. MILK AND SODA WATER. 7j a tumbler of milk, a tumbler of soda water. Put the milk into a tumbler and fill up with soda water. This renders the milk much more digestible. The soda water divides the casein of the milk into fine flakes, and pi-events it settling into hard indigestible curds. Soda water and milk is often given in cases of fever, but is useful at all times as a beverage. COFFEE. 1 oz. of Plantation coffee. 1 oz. of Mocha coffee. 1 pint of boiling water. Pinch of salt. Make the coffee-pot hot. Put in the coffee mixed andSICKROOM COOKERY. 160 the salt. Pour in the absolutely boiling water (freshly boiled) and let it percolate through. Let it stand by the side of the stove. Pour the first two or three table- spoonfuls of coffee off into a hot saucepan, and return to the pot until it comes clear. Serve half coffee and half boiled milk. GRUEL. pint of milk or water. 1 dessertspoonful of patent groats or fine oatmeal. Sugar or salt. Blend tbe patent groats in a basin witb a little cold milk. Then pour on half a pint of boiling milk or water. Return to tbe saucepan, boil for ten minutes, stirring well witb a wooden spoon. Serve witb sugar or salt according to taste. If liked a tablespoonful of brandy or sberry may be added. Gruel induces perspiration and should be taken in bed. It is useful in cases of cold. BARLEY GRUEL. 1 oz. of pearl barley. | pint of water. 1 strip of lemon rind. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 glass of port wine. Blanch the barley and strain off. Simmer tbe barley with the water, lemon rind and sugar, for twenty minutes. Strain, and add the port wine. Useful in cases of cold or sore throat.SICKROOM COOKERY. 161 POTATO GRUEL. (Dr. Burney Yeo.) “ Rub steamed floni-y potatoes through a fine sieve, beat them up well with milk till smooth and of the consistency of thin cream. Well-boiled carrots may be used in the same way.” Useful in scurvy. SAGO GRUEL. 1 dessertspoonful of sago. ^ pint of water. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 1 glass of port wine. Boil the water, shake in the sago, and cook until clear, stirring to keep it smooth. Add the sugar. Take off the fire, stir in the port, and serve. This is a stimulating, soothing gruel in cases of cold, and should be taken in bed. IRISH OR ICELAND MOSS. \ oz. of Irish moss. 1 pint of cold water. Lemon juice, wine and sugar. Wash the moss well, put it into cold water, and let it steep all night. Strain away the water. Put the moss with a pint of cold water into a saucepan and simmer gently for one hour. Strain, and add a little wine or lemon juice and sugar to flavour it. A little milk may be added to it if preferred. Irish moss jelly can be made by using the same ingredients, and boiling gently for five hours. Strain, flavour, and set in a mould. Irish moss is a seaweed. It contains a considerable amount of mucilage, some iodine and sulphur. It is not MSICKROOM COOKERY. 162 very pleasant in flavour, and needs a little wine or lemon juice to make it palatable. It is used as a remedy in cases of ctest disease. KOUMISS. (Dr. Burney Yeo.) (home made.) “ Boil fresli milk, and when nearly cold put into quart bottles, leaving room to shake. Add | oz. of crushed lump sugar and a piece of Vienna yeast (20 grains), cork with new corks, tie down, keep cool, and lay the bottles horizontal, and shake twice daily. Ready to drink on sixth day, or earlier in hot, later in cold, weather. Can be made thinner by using skimmed milk.” LEMONADE (1). 2 lemons. 4 lumps of sugar (to taste). 1 pint of boiling water. Cut the thin yellow rind from one lemon, remove all white pith, and cut both lemons into thin slices. Put these with the sugar into a jug. Pour a pint of boiling water over, cover closely, and when cold strain. This is the most suitable lemonade in cases of serious illness. It is milder, and, by boiling, impurities in the water are destroyed. LEMONADE (2). 2 lemons. 2 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. 1 pint of cold water. 1 small piece of ice. Squeeze the juice of two lemons and strain it on to the castor sugar in a jug. Add the cold water and a small piece of ice if available. This makes more piquantSICKROOM COOKERY. 163 lemonade than the first, but not so suitable in cases of serious illness. FRUIT JUICES. Yarious fresh fruit juices are often given in cases of acute illness, especially such fruit juices as the lemon and orange. LEMON SOUASH. 1 lemon. Soda water. 1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. Squeeze the lemon juice into a large tumbler, add the castor sugar, and three quarters fill with soda water. Add a small piece of ice if liked. Serve. CITRIC LEMONADE. (a bottled essence.) 1 oz. of citric acid in crystals. 1 lb. of loaf sugar. 1 quart of boiling water. 30 drops of essence of lemon. Put the citric acid and loaf sugar into a basin. Pour one quart of boiling water over, and stir well. When cold add the essence of lemon. Put into a bottle with a glass stopper or cork. For use add one tablespoonful to half a tumbler of cold water. This lemonade keeps well and is delicious in flavour. It is not so suitable for a fever patient, but will be found most useful in times of epidemic, when the water must be boiled, and thus becomes flat and distasteful. By the addition of a little of this lemonade to the water it is rendered both pleasant and refreshing. To make sparkling lemonade, put two tablespoonfuls of lemonade into a tumbler, and fill up with soda water. M 2164 SICKROOM COOKERY. LINSEED TEA. 1 oz. of whole linseed. ] pint of water. \ oz. of liquorice. 7j oz. of sugar candy. 1 strip of lemon peel. \ juice of a lemon. Wash the linseed and simmer with the water and lemon rind for thirty minutes. Add the liquoi'ice and sugar candy and dissolve. Strain, and add the lemon juice. Useful for colds. The mucilage from the linseed and the liquorice have a soothing effect. MILK AND FLOUR BALL. Tie some flour in a ball in a cloth. Boil well for three or four hours. Let it go cold ; it wdll be in a solid ball. Grate it down. Take half an ounce and blend with half a pint of milk. Bring to the boil, stirring all the time. Boil five minutes, sweeten, and it is ready. This is sometimes given to children. MILK AND SUET. (Dr. Pavy.) “ Boil an ounce of finely chopped suet with a quarter of a pint of water for ten minutes, and press through linen. Then add a dram of bnused cinnamon, an ounce of sugar, and tln-ee quarters of a pint of milk. Boil again for ten minutes and strain. A wineglassful or two at a time. “ Nutritive and fattening.”165 SICKROOM COOKERY. MULLED PORT. 1 gill of port. 1 gill of water. I inch of cinnamon. 1 sti'ip of lemon peel. 4 cloves. 2 allspice. 1 grate of nutmeg. Sugar to taste. Put the water, lemon peel and spices into a saucepan, and boil for live minutes. Add the port and make it hot, but do not boil, as it takes from the flavour of the wine. Strain at once, and sweeten to taste. Any red wine may be used. Useful for a cold. ORANGEADE. 2 oranges. 1 lemon. 1 pint of boiling water. 6 lumps of sugar. Peel the yellow rind thinly from the lemon, put it, the sugar, and the strained juice of the lemon, and oranges, into a jug. Pour the boiling water on to them. Cover and strain when cold. This is a cool and refreshing drink. PRAIRIE OYSTER. 1 yolk of egg. 1 teaspoonful of white vinegar. Pepper and salt. Put a few drops of vinegar in a wineglass, then put in the yolk of egg. Pour a few drops of vinegar on top.166 SICKROOM COOKERY. Season lightly -with pepper and salt. If liked, the whole egg may be used. This is very nourishing and digestible, as raw egg is most easily assimilated. PRUNE OR TAMARIND DRINK. 2 oz. of prunes or tamarinds. 1 pint of boiling water. 1 oz. of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Wash, stone, and slice the prunes. Put into a sauce- pan with the water and sugar, and simmer gently for one hour. Add the lemon juice, strain, and cover until cold. Half a glass of sherry or port may be added if desired. Refreshing beverage, and useful as a laxative. RICE WATER. (Hr. Pavy.) (A USEFUL DRINK IN DYSENTERY, DIARRHQ3A, ETC.) “ Wash well one ounce of Carolina rice with cold water. Then macerate for three hours in a quart of water kept at tepid heat, and afterwards boil slowly for one hour, and strain. May be flavoured with lemon peel, cloves, or other spice.” RICE MILK. 1 oz. of rice. 1 pint of milk. Sugar. Wash the nee, and simmer gently in the milk for one hour. Then add the sugar. Pine sago or tapioca may be used instead of idee. This is a variety in serving milk, the rice giving a little consistency.SICKROOM COOKERY. 1G7 RUM AND MILK. ^ pint of new milk. 1 tablespoonful of rum. Mix the rum well with the milk. Taken before break- fast. TEA. Allow one teaspoonful of tea for eacb person and one over for tbe teapot. Make the teapot bot. Put in tbe tea and immediately pour sufficient boiling water on to it. Cover witb a cosy, let it infuse for tliree minutes, pour off and serve. Tbe water for tea must be absolutely boiling and freshly boiled. Tea wbicb is allowed to stand too long is injurious to tbe nerves, and is neither wholesome nor palatable. TOAST WATER. 1 crust of bread, toasted. 1 pint of cold water. Toast a piece of crust of bread very brown and bard, but do not burn it. Put it into a jug with tbe fresh cold water, and let it soak for an hour. Strain, and it is ready. It should be a clear brown colour. Crust of bread is preferable for this, as if made from tbe crumb it more quickly turns sour. TREACLE POSSET. ^ pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. | juice of a lemon. Put tbe milk into a saucepan. When boiling pour in the treacle and lemon juice. It will curdle. Strain through muslin. This is given as a bot drink in cases of cold.168 SICKROOM COOKERY. THICK MILK. \ oz. of baked flour, pint of milk. Sugar to taste. Put some flour on to a baking tin and bake a pale fawn colour in the oven. Take half an ounce and blend it with the milk. Boil for eight minutes, stirring all the time. Sweeten and serve. By baking the flour it is rendered easier of digestion. This thickened milk is sometimes given to patients when they are once more allowed a solid diet after a serious illness. WHITE WINE WHEY. ■g pint of milk. 1 wineglassful of sherry. Sugar to taste. Pour in the sherry when the milk is boiling. It will curdle. Strain through muslin. The curds are indi- gestible, and are therefore not served. It is purposely curdled to remove them and so render the milk more digestible. The curds contain some of the casein and much of the milk fat. The whey contains about one fourth of the nitrogenous matter, some mineral matter, and all the sugar. As well as being nutritious this is also a stimulating beverage on account of the wine. White wine whey is especially valuable in children’s diseases, and infantile diarrhoea. MILK WHEY. 1 pint of new milk. ■J, pint of buttermilk. Pour in the buttermilk when the milk is boiling. The mixture will curdle. Strain through muslin and serve the whey. It is a light nutritious drink. The curds are indigestible.SICKROOM COOKERY. 169 WHEY FROM RENNET. 1 pint of milk. 1 square inch of rennet. Add the rennet to the milk and gently heat to 100° F. Let it stand in a warm place for half an hour. Strain through muslin.170 SOME POINTS ON THE PREPARATION OE EOOD EOR THE BOTTLE-EEI) INEANT. By PRANK 0. MADDEN, F.R.C.S. (Medical Superintendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street). The mother’s milk is provided by nature for the needs of the growing infant, and all children should be breast- fed, whenever practicable, if only for a short time. When the breast milk is insufficient in quantity or poor in quality, artificial feeding may be necessary as an addition to the breast-feeding, one feed a day being substituted for a breast-feed. Later, when it is time to wean the child, artificial feeding gradually takes the place of the mother’s milk. When it is necessary to resort to artificial feeding entirely the following points must be observed : Cow’s milk is the most generally satisfactory substi- tute for human milk. It is easily procured, and with ordi- nary care can be obtained practically pure and free from gross contamination. The first indication is to free the cow’s milk from putrefactive micro-organisms. To obtain this result the milk must be boiled. It must next be diluted with water to diminish the proportion of proteids. The water used for dilution must be boiled in the same way as the milk and for the same reason. To sweeten the milk, a small quantity of syrup, sugar of milk, or plain white sugar must be added to each bottle. A teaspoonful of cream, if it can be procured fresh, may also be added. All food must be given lukewarm in a perfectly plain, boat-shaped bottle. A small indiarubber teat is fitted to the neck of the bottle and the meal is ready.171 SICKROOM COOKERY. Tlie bottle must be kept scrupulously clean, and when not in use must be left in water, to wbicb a pincb of baking soda lias been added. It must be carefully rinsed in warm water before being used, and should be scalded twice a day. The teats also must be similarly treated, brushed clean inside and out, and left in soda solution until required. Too much stress cannot be laid on the importance of the absolute cleanliness of the feeding utensils. All the food must be freshly prepared for each feed, and the child must be allowed to take its own time over the meal. Infants should be enveloped, mummy-like, in a blanket, so that the arms and legs are controlled. In this way the child seems to realise that feeding is a serious business, and takes its meals without much rebellion. The best diluent of milk is plain boiled water, to which a little lime water may be added, if desired, and it frequently appears beneficial to add barley, oatmeal, or arrowroot water—all very diluted forms of starch—to the staple milk. TO MAKE BARLEY WATER. 1. Put one good tablespoonful of pearl barley in one pint of cold water. Boil and reject the first water. Add another pint of water and allow it to simmer for two hours, then strain and cool. 2. Take two good teaspoonsful of Robinson’s prepared barley and make into a paste with cold water. Pour one pint of boiling water on to the paste and bring the mixture again to the boil. Strain if necessary. TO MAKE OATMEAL WATER. . Take one tablespoonful of coarse ground oatmeal in one pint of cold water. Let the mixture simmer for an hour or more, then add more water to give it the necessary fluidity. JSICKROOM COOKERY. 172 TO MAKE ARROWROOT WATER. Take two tablespoonsful of arrowroot to one pint of cold water. Allow it to simmer for from fire to ten minutes, stirring all tlie time. Strain and further dilute with warm water. From birth to the end of the first month the milk must be diluted at least twice, i.e., one part of milk to two of water. Lime water or barley water may be sub- stituted for the plain boiled water if necessary, or any two of the three diluents may be blended in equal proportions with the milk. The proportion of water is gradually lessened until, at three months, the food consists of equal parts of milk and water, barley water or lime water By a gradual process of exclusion the water is omitted, and at six months the child is having boiled undiluted milk with perhaps a teaspoonful of lime water to each bottle. THE QUANTITY OF FOOD. The scheme of feeding up to six months may be expressed in tabular form thus : Period Quantity at each feed Interval No. of feeds per day Quantity in 24 hours From birth to the 3rd week 1 fluid oz. Every 2 hours 12 12 fluid oz. At the beginningof the 2nd month 1J to 2 fluid oz. „ 24 „ 8 12 to 16 „ By the end of the 2nd month ... 3 to 4 „ 8 20 to 30 „ During the 3rd and 4th months ... 4 to 5 „ 7 30 to 35 „ During the 5th and 6th months... 6 to 7 i) 3 »» G 36 to 40 (2 pints) After the seventh month the child should have eight fluid ounces every three hour’s, amounting to neaidy three pints of milk a day. For the first two months, infants must be fed regularly every two hours night and day. They should not, under any circumstances, be left for more than four hours without food.173 SICKROOM COOKERY. After two months, infants should be trained to sleep for some hours at a time, but they must not be overfed at the last meal before sleep, with the idea of keeping them going during the long interval of sleep. If after a fair trial cow’s milk diluted in various pro- portions disagrees, condensed milk may be temporarily substituted, the best degree of dilution being one tea- spoonful of milk to six tablespoonsful of boiled water. Sugar must be added if the unsweetened preparations are used. A teaspoonful of cream may be added to each fluid ounce of condensed milk food. On occasion the milk meal is modified by the addition of various preparations, such as raw meat juice, whey, and bread jelly. TO MAKE RAW MEAT JUICE. Place four ounces of scraped meat in one 'ounce of cold water. Let it stand for two hours, strain and squeeze through muslin. Two or three teaspoonsful or more may be added to each bottle. TO MAKE WHEY. Warm one pint of milk and add two teaspoonsful of rennet. Let the mixture stand for twenty minutes till the curd forms, then boil it up and strain off the whey. The milk must not be boiled before the rennet is added, or no curd will form. TO MAKE BREAD JELLY. Take a thick slice of bread (4 oz.) and soak it in water for six hours. Pour off the water and add another pint of fresh water. Boil for one hour till a jelly forms, strain, cool, and add to the food as ordered. DIETARY FROM THE SIXTH TO THE TWELFTH MONTH. The eruption of the teetll is an indication that some- thing more solid must be added to the dietary, and is also a protest against further breast-feediim.174 SICKROOM COOKERY. The staple diet must still consist of milk, from one and a half to two pints being given in the twenty-four hours. Milk, however, of itself, is now hardly sufficient, and starchy foods in some form are required. Barley jelly may be used. It is made by putting two tablespoonsful of washed pearl barley into a pint and a half of water and slowly boiling the mixture down to a pint, straining and allowing the liquid to cool and form a jelly. Two teaspoonsful of this jelly are dissolved in eight ounces of warmed and sweetened milk, and given twice a day, in place of the ordinary milk feed. At other times, the milk may be thickened by the addition of bread jelly or grated bread crumbs, and by the time the teeth are fairly well developed, bread and milk may also be given. Other starchy foods, such as oatmeal, wholemeal flour, arrowroot, maize, etc., may be safely given, provided they are thoroughly cooked. Cooking bursts the starch capsules, and the granules within are gelatinised. Two tablespoonsful of any of these foods may be added to a pint of milk, TO MAKE OATMEAL JELLY. Place a tablespoonful of coarse ground oatmeal in one pint of cold water. Let the mixture simmer for an hour or more, strain and allow the fluid to set into a jelly. Use in the same way as barley jelly. TO MAKE ARROWROOT JELLY. Add two tablespoonsful of arrowroot to one pint of water. Allow it to simmer for from five to ten minutes, stirring all the time, and then set aside to form a jelly. Malt extract, best added to the milk after it has been boiled, may also be given, and is well digested, as some of the starch has already undergone partial digestive change in the process of manufacture. Not more than five meals a day should be allowed ; in fact, four is often sufficient, consisting of from six to eight ounces of food at each meal. Convenient hours are 6 a.m., 10 a.m., 2 p.m., 6 p.m., and 10 p.m.175 PEPTONISED FOODS. Peptonised food, milk, gruel, and beef tea, are all most valuable in cases of fever, acute gastritis, gastric ulcer, dyspepsia, or severe indigestion. They are also useful for children unable to partake of milk in its natural form. By peptonisation the food is partially predigested, and it is then readily absorbed. When the natural juices are deficient and the stomach unable to perform its office, by peptonisation the patient can be supplied with nutriment which it would otherwise be impossible for him to digest. There are various peptonising agents; among these, Pepsine, Fairchild’s Powders, Liquor Pancreaticus, and Benger’s Foods. The general principles of peptonisation or predigestion will be sufficiently indicated by the following recipes. PEPTONISED BEEF TEA. {Sir William Roberts’ Recipe.) “ Mix half a pound of finely-minced lean beef with half a pint of water, and twenty grains of bicarbonate of sodium. Let it simmer for an hour. Remove from the fire, and when it has cooled down to a lukewarm tempera- ture add a tablespoonful of liquor pancreaticus. Then set the mixtui’e aside for three houi’s, wrapped in a tea176 SICKROOM COOKERY. cosy or flannel to maintain the temperature, and occa- sionally shake it. At the end of this time decant the liquid portion and boil it for a few seconds.” This stops the process of digestion, and prevents it becoming bitter. PEPTONISED MILK. (Dr. Burney Teo’s “ Food m Disease.”) “ Into a clean quart bottle pour a pint of milk, add a quarter of a pint of water, and a tube of Fairchild’s powder; shake them together. Put the bottle into water as hot as the hand can bear (about 150° F.) and let it stand for half an hour, then boil for two or three minutes. It is then ready for use.” PEPTONISED MILK. § pint of fresh milk. 3 pint of water. 2 teaspoonfuls of Benger’s liquor pancreaticus. \ a level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix the milk and water together, and warm in a sauce- pan to 140° F. This is as hot as liquid can be tasted without burning the mouth. Pour into a basin or jug, and stir in the liquor pan- creaticus and bicarbonate. Cover with a cosy and put near the fire to keep warm. Allow it to stand for ten to twenty minutes, according to the degree of peptonisation or digestion desired. It may then be consumed by the patient, and the process of digestion will proceed, for a time, in the stomach. If the milk is needed more thoroughly digested, allow it to stand for a longer period. As the process ofSICKROOM COOKERY. 177 peptonisation proceeds, a slightly bitter taste is developed in the milk. The degree unobjectionable to each indi- vidual patieut varies. Therefore it must be tried once or twice, and when the limit is reached, the milk must either be consumed by the patieut at once, or put into a saucepan immediately and brought to the boil. This stops any further action of the liquor pancreaticus, and the milk will keep like ordinary milk. Many people do not object to the slightly bitter taste, but, if desired, a little coffee added to the peptonised milk will mask this. PEPTONISED GRUEL. 1 pint of thick gruel. 2 teaspoonfuls of Benger’s liquor pancreaticus. Boil the gruel until well cooked, and very thick. Pour into a jug or basin, and let it cool to 140° F. Then stir the liquor pancreaticus well in. Keep warm under a cosy near the fire. Allow it to stand for half an hour to an hour according to the degree of peptonisation desired. Taste to see that it does not become too bitter. Bring the mixture to the boil and strain. Serve the strained gruel. lhe gruel may be made with oatmeal, cornflour, arrow- root, wheaten flour, pearl barley, sago, ground pea or lentil flour, or with any farinaceous food. By peptonising the gruel, the starch is turned into sugar, which makes it easier of digestion, and the albuminoid matters are peptonised. The change of the starch into sugar causes the gruel to become quite thin, therefore it should be thick to begin with. N178 SICKROOM COOKERY. PEPTONISED MILK GRUEL. ^ pint of thick gruel. \ pint of fresh milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of Benger’s liquor pancreaticus. A pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Make a thick gruel from any farinaceous food desired. To half a pint of boiling hot gruel add half a pint of cold milk. This will be the right temperature. Stir the liquor pancreaticus and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda well in. Cover and keep warm for half an hour. Boil for a few minutes, strain, and serve the gruel. PEPTONISED CUSTARD PUDDING. pint of peptonised milk gruel. 2 eggs. Sugar to taste. Make half a pint of milk gruel by the preceding recipe, and after the final boiling strain and allow it to cool for five minutes. Beat two eggs well and stir them in. Add sugar to taste and any flavouring desired. Pour into a buttered piedish and bake in a slew oven for twenty minutes. PEPTONISED BLANCMANGE. \ pint of peptonised milk. ■1 oz. of sheet gelatine, gill of cream. 1 dessertspoonful of sugar. Peptonise the milk by the ordinary recipe, bring to the boil and strain into a basin. Add the gelatine at once and stir until dissolved. Then put in the cream and179 SICKROOM COOKERY. sugar to taste. Let it cool in tlie basin, until becoming slightly thick and creamy. Set at once in small moulds, rinsed with cold water. Turn out when firm. KB.—The peptonised milk must boil, to stop the process of peptonisation, before adding the gelatine, or else the gelatine will not set into a jelly. PEPTONISED BEEF-TEA JELLY. A pint of peptonised beef tea. i oz. of sheet gelatine. Make the peptonised beef tea as in the preceding recipe, bring to the boil, and strain into a basin. Put in the gelatine while still very hot, and stir for a few minutes until dissolved. Set in a small mould or dariole mould rinsed with cold water. When firm dip for one moment into warm water and turn out. N.B.—The peptonising process must be absolutely complete, even to the boiling of the beef tea, before putting in the gelatine, or else the liquor pancreaticus acts on the gelatine and takes away its power of setting into a jelly. PEPTONISED SOUPS. There are two ways of preparing peptonised soups. The first is to add half a pint of strong soup or stock to an equal quantity of peptonised gruel or milk gruel. The second, and most recommended, is to use peptonised gruel, which is quite thin and watery, instead of ordinary water, and then proceed to make the soup from shin of beef or any other material desired, in the ordinary wav.180 MALTED FOODS. Mrs. Ernest Hart, in lier most instructive and charm- ingly-written book,* thus describes Malted Foods : “We have seen that in the digestion of starch it is acted upon by a diastase which is contained both in the saliva and in the pancreatic juice, which diastase converts starch into glucose or grape sugar. Malt has at a certain heat the same effect on the starch contained in wheaten and other meals. Before being converted into glucose, the starch is first changed into dextrine, then into maltose, and finally into grape sugar. In malted foods, the malt flour is mixed with the finest wheaten flour, and the process of conversion into sugar is started and then stopped. On mixing the malted food with water the process recommences, and is carried on rapidly, either while being cooked or in the stomach, and in a short time the whole of the starch is turned into grape sugar, and is ready for absorption. In most of the patented malt extracts sold the change of starch into sugar has been carried too far, and the maltine has, as a food, not much more value than treacle or syrup. Both Sir William Roberts and Dr. Cheadle are agreed that these ‘ malted foods ’ are quite unsatisfactory as foods if taken only mixed with water; but that, provided they still * Diet in Sickness and in Health. By Mrs. Ernest Hart. London : The Scientific Press. 1895.SICKROOM COOKERY. 181 contain a considerable amount of active diastase, they make, if mixed with milk or gruel, valuable and highly digestible foods for invalids and delicate children. “HOW TO MAKE MALT INFUSION. “ (Sir William Roberts' Method.) “ Mix three ounces of crushed malt thoroughly well with half a pint of cold water in a jug. Let the mixture stand over night. The supernatant liquid is then care- fully decanted off from the sediment, and strained through two or three folds of muslin, until it comes through fairly clear and bright. Malt infusion thus prepared has a light brown colour like sherry, a faint maltish taste, and the odour of beer-wort. It is prone to fermentation, and should be prepared fresh every day. “ This method of preparing malt infusion is so simple, and the product so efficacious in aiding the digestion of gruel and farinaceous foods, that it should be regarded as a household remedy. It costs three farthings a pint. “ MALTED GRUEL. “ The gruel should be well boiled, and strained to separate the lumps. When cool enough to swallow, the malt infusion is added. One tablespoonful will digest half a pint of gruel. The action is very rapid ; in a few minutes the gruel becomes thin, from the conversion of the starch into maltose (Roberts). Other farinaceous foods, such as arrowroot, can be malted in the same way.”SICKROOM COOKERY. 182 STERILISATION OF MILK. (Dr. Burney Yeo.) “ The complete sterilisation of milk is by no means an easy matter. It is true that the typhoid bacillus, the bacillus of green diarrhoea in infants, and the bacillus of tubercle, are all killed at a temperature of 70° C., and the raising of milk to this temperature for a time is capable, therefore, of destroying them; but a few living spores remain which require a heat of 107° to 108° C. to destroy ; but these develop slowly, and for most practical purposes a heat of 80° C., applied to the twenty-four or forty-eight hours’ supply, ought to annihilate the injurious microbes. Perfect sterilisation can only be effected by submitting the milk to the action of continuous steaming for two hours at a temperature of 248° F., or for thirty minutes at a temperature of 266° F., but this produces changes in the milk which are not desirable We must, therefore, be content with partial sterilisation, which is easily carried out. The most dangerous patho- genic germs can be certainly destroyed by heating for an hour at 154° to 167° F., or heating three-quarters of an hour by steam at 212° F.” BENGER’S FOOD. Benger’s food is most useful for invalids and con- valescents. Instructions for making will be found enclosed with the food.183 POULTICES. There is often a difficulty in obtaining definite instruc- tions for making poultices, therefore recipes are here inserted. They act as a valuable counter-irritant, and will generally be found soothing and sedative in their effects. Poultices such as linseed should be put on as hot as can be borne. A warm flannel or towel should be passed round the body and fastened with a safety-pin to keep the poultice in place. A piece of oilskin or mackintosh may be laid across to prevent any moisture. A poultice should never be left on when becoming chilled. It should be carefully removed, the part affected gently wiped with a warm soft towel, and a piece of cotton-wool or flannel placed over, to prevent irritation or rash. If the skin is very delicate a little olive oil or vaseline may be quickly spread over the surface of the linseed poultice before being applied. When removed, the part should be carefully dried and dusted with fullers’ earth or violet powder, and covered with cotton-wool or warm flannel. BREAD POULTICE. Crumb of bread. Boiling water. Make a basin hot and put in the breadcrumbs according to the size of the poultice needed. Pour just sufficientSICKROOM COOKERY. 184 water over to soak the bread. Cover and let it stand for three or four minutes Strain off the water and place on a piece of muslin or soft linen. Apply to the affected part as hot as possible. Fold a piece of oilsilk round. This is a very cleansing and soothing poultice for gatherings before they are broken. CHARCOAL POULTICE. \ pint of boiling water. Linseed meal. 1 tablespoonful of powdered vegetable charcoal. Make a basin hot and pour in about quarter of a pint of boiling water. Stir in sufficient linseed meal to mix to a paste, then add the charcoal. Apply at once. LINSEED POULTICE. £ pint of boiling water. Linseed meal. Tow, cotton-wool or linen. Make a basin hot, either in the oven or by rinsing with boiling water. Pour in about quarter of a pint of boiling water, then sift in sufficient linseed meal to obtain the desired consistency, stirring quickly with a spatula or blunt knife. It should be about the consistency of porridge and thick enough to cut cleanly with a knife. Spread immediately on the prepai'ed tow or linen and turn the edges over. Apply as hot as can be borne. A piece of thick flannel or oilskin on top will prevent moisture and retain the heat. Remove the poultice as soon as it becomes chilled, wipe with a soft warm towel, and cover with cotton-wool or flannel.185 SICKROOM COOKERY. JACKET POULTICE. A jacket poultice consists of two separate shaped linseed poultices, sufficiently large to entirely cover the chest back and front. The poultices are fastened on with tapes or cross bandages. LINSEED AND MUSTARD POULTICE. pint of boiling water. 3 tablespoonfuls of linseed meal. 1 tablespoonful of mustard. Make a basin hot and pour in the boiling water. Add sufficient meal to mix to a paste, adding more meal or water as necessary. Sprinkle the mustard over the surface. Apply the same as linseed poultice. MUSTARD PLASTER. Mustard. Lukewarm water. Mix sufficient mustard with lukewarm water, spread on a piece of brown paper and cover with thin muslin. Apply for about twenty minutes until the irritating effect is felt. Linseed poultices are more often used now. Mustard leaves are convenient, being easily steeped and applied. BRAN POULTICE. Bran. A square muslin bag. Make two muslin sachet-shaped bags. Put in sufficient bran to form a thick pad, but not too solid. Stitch it through once or twice to keep the bran in place. Make very hot in the oven on a plate. Cover with another hot plate and take to the patient at once. Have one poultice on the patient and the other in the oven ready to replace186 SICKROOM COOKERY. it. Useful in cases wliei’e liot dry beat is required, as for the face in cases of neuralgia or earacbe. HOT SAND POULTICE. Sand. Calico bag. Make a square or long narrow calico bag as required, and put in sufficient sand to make a thick pad. Do not fill too full or it will not be so soft and comfortable. Have two in use, and make very hot in the oven as in the preceding recipe. These sandbags retain the heat for a long time, and by their warmth and weight help to relieve pain. They are useful in cases of lumbago or earache. If an oven is not available, the sand may be heated in a pan and quickly filled into the bag. Salt is sometimes used in the same way as sand. HOT-WATER POULTICE. Hot-water bag or bottle. Boiling water. Bill an indiarubber hot-water bag or bottle with boiling water. Let the steam escape for two or three minutes, then screw down. Wrap in flannel and apply in case of pain. It will be found most soothing. Where an indiarubber bag cannot be obtained a stone bottle may be used, but it is not so convenient or easily adjusted. The steam must always be allowed to escape for a few minutes before corking, for fear the bag or bottle might burst. HOT FOMENTATIONS. Boiling water. Piece of flannel. Round roller towel. Fold a square of flannel and lay it on a short roller towel, and place over a basin. Pour a kettle of boiling187 SICKROOM COOKERY. water over. Fold the edges of the towel over the flannel, and twist the ends of the towel in opposite directions to wring ont the water. A piece of stick might be inserted at each end to facilitate this. Apply the flannel at once. Cover with a thick warm flannel or a piece of oilskin or mackintosh. Change as soon as it becomes chilled, and renew continnonsly, if necessary, nntil the pain is allayed. Slip another on as the cool flannel is being taken off. POPPY FOMENTATIONS. 2 poppy heads. 1 qnart of water. Crash two poppy heads and boil well in the water for quarter of an hour. Strain the water from the poppy heads over a piece of flannel, wring ont, and proceed as in hot fomentations. Poppy fomentations are very soothing and sedative in cases of severe pain. LAUDANUM FOMENTATIONS. Proceed as for hot fomentations, and when the flannel is wrung ont of the boiling water sprinkle a teaspoonful of laudanum over the surface. Apply at once as in hot fomentations. Yery soothing and sedative in cases of severe pain. TURPENTINE FOMENTATIONS. Proceed as for hot fomentations, and when the flannel is wrung ont sprinkle a tablespoonfnl of turpentine over the surface. Apply at once as in hot fomentations. Keep the turpentine fomentation on nntil becoming chilled, or irritation is felt and the skin looks red. This fomentation is both soothing from its heat in cases of pain, and also acts as a counter-irritant.188 SICKROOM COOKERY. ALKALINE FOMENTATION OK STUPE. Put a handful of soda into the boiling water and proceed as in hot fomentations. This is useful in cases of rheumatism. Occasionally the part affected is steeped in strong soda and hot water. This has been found useful when the hand, foot, or any joint is stiff or crippled with rheumatism. Care must be taken to wrap it up well afterwards with cotton wool and flannel for fear of cold. COLD COMPRESS. J pint of iced water. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, eau de Cologne, or spirit. Band of muslin or cambric. Generally iced water is used. Occasionally a little vinegar or eau de Cologne is added. Fold the cambric in a band and dip in the lotion. Lay on the part affected. Use a piece of oilskin or mackintosh to prevent the pillow becoming wet. Renew as the band becomes warm. Use- ful to allay inflammation. Occasionally used in cases of severe headache. ICE BAG APPLICATION. Ice. An indiarubber bag or new sponge bag. Bx-eak the ice into small pieces and half fill an india- rubber bag with it. The bag should be gently placed on the affected pai’t, and is often suspended by sti’ing from the head of the bed or nails in the wall to pi’event the patient suffei’ing fi’om the weight. The water must be poured away and the ice renewed from time to time as it melts. To keep ice, wrap in a piece of coai’se blanket or flannel and keep in a cool place.189 DIABETIC DIET. In Diabetes, by a derangement of the liver, as already mentioned in the chapter on Diet, the body is nnable to deal with the starch and sugar taken in the food, and the sugar passes in large quantities into the circulation. Therefore, both sugar and starch (which is converted into sugar in the process of digestion) must be carefully eliminated from the diet. Cream, butter, and eggs must be plentifully used to replace them. Cream contains much milk fat with a certain proportion of flesh - forming material, while milk is prohibited on account of the milk sugar it contains. Bread, cakes, farinaceous puddings, fruit, potatoes, many vegetables, and most made dishes, sauces, and sweets, contain one or other of the prohibited ingredients, and must be carefully avoided. At the same time, by a judicious combination, an excel- lent diet may be secured, although necessarily an ex- pensive one. Clear soup may usually be taken, while thick soups should be avoided. Eggs and cream must be used for thickening soups, avoiding all flour or farinaceous in- gredients. Gluten, the albuminous constituent of flour, is carefully prepared as free from starch as possible, and must be used instead of flour in the manufacture of bread and biscuits. Light porous bread and rusks can be made from it; and although it cannot be contended tbis class of breadSICKROOM COOKERY. 190 satisfies tlie longing of the diabetic patient it contains much nutriment, and is the only available substitute for bread. Great differences exist in the so-called gluten flour and prepared bran, and the bread should be obtained from authorised makers only. Almond flour is also use- ful for cakes, biscuits, and puddings, but is slightly difficult of digestion. For puddings—as all fruits, milk, and starchy foods must be excluded—recourse must be had to butter, cream, eggs, almonds, saccharine, and lemons. The use of saccharine is always attended with difficulty, a shade too much imparting a most unpleasant flavour. Half-grain tabloids have been used in these recipes. Sauces are always a difficulty, and care has been taken in the following recipes to exclude all prohibited in- gredients. Cream and eggs must be used for a thickening. Plain roast, boiled, or grilled dishes of meat are all allowed; the only point to be observed is that no sauce thickened with flour be served with them.191 SICKROOM COOKERY. (The following is Dr. Pavy's printed form for the guidance of Diabetic Patients.) DIETARY FOR THE DIABETIC. MAY BAT Batcher’s Meat of all kinds. Ham, Bacon, or other smoked, salted, dried or cured meats. Poultry. Game. Shell-fish and Fish of all kinds, fresh, salted, or cured. Animal Soups not thickened, Beef Tea and Broths. The almond, bran, or gluten substitute for ordinary bread. Eggs dressed in any way. Cheese. Cream Cheese. Butter. Cream. Greens. Spinach. Turnip-tops. Turnips. French Beans. Brussels Sprouts. Cauliflower. Broccoli. Cabbage. Asparagus. Seakale. Vegetable Marrow. Mushrooms. Watercress. Mustard and Cress. Cucumber. Tomato. Lettuce. Endive. Radishes. Celery. Rhubarb. Vinegar. Oil. Pickles. Jellies and Custard sweetened with Saccharine. Savoury Jelly. Blancmange made with isinglass or gelatine and cream. Nuts of any description, except Chestnuts. Olives. Saccharine may be used as a sweetening agent whenever desired. MUST AVOID BATING Sugar in any form, Wheaten Bread and Biscuits of all kinds. Rice. Arrowroot. Cornflour. Oatmeal. Sago. Tapioca. Macaroni. Vermicelli. Potatoes. Carrots. Parsnips. Beetroot. Peas. Spanish Onions. Pastry and Puddings of all kinds. Fruit of all kinds (Lemons excepted), fresh and preserved. MAY DEINK Tea. Coffee. Cocoa from nibs. Dry Sherry. Claret. Dry Sauterne. Burgundy. Chablis. Hock. Brandy, Whisky, and other unsweetened Spirits. Soda and other Aerated Table Waters. Light Dinner or Bitter Ale, in small quantity. MUST AVOID DRINKING Milk, except sparingly. Sweet Ales, mild and old. Porter and Stout. Cider. All sweet Wines. Sparkling Wines. Port Wine, unless sparingly. Liqueurs.192 DIABETIC SOUPS. ASPARAGUS SOUP. (diabetic.) 20 heads of asparagus. J lb. of spinach. 1 pint of stock or water. 1 gill of cream. Pepper and salt. Wash the spinach and asparagus and put them with half a pint of water into a saucepan. Boil until tender and rub all through a hair sieve. Put this puree into a measure and make up to one pint with stock. Return to the saucepan, make very hot, and add the cream. Season and serve. BONNE EEMME SOUP. (diabetic.) 4 lettuce leaves. 6 slices of cucumber. 1 oz. of butter. 1 pint of stock. ^ gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. Cut the lettuce across into fine shreds, slice the cucumber thinly, and cut each slice across into matchSICKROOM COOKERY. 193 sticks. Melt tlie butter in a saucepan, stir in tlie shredded vegetables without breaking, add the stock, and boil gently for ten minutes. Mix the cream and yolks of egg and strain in. Cook for a moment, but do not boil or it will curdle. Season and serve. CLEAR MULLIGATAWNY. (diabetic.) 1 quart of stock. 2 onions. 1 tablespoonfnl of curry powder. 1 dessertspoonful of curry paste. \ juice of a lemon. | teaspoonful of salt. 1 tabloid of saccharine. 2 whites of egg. Put the stock, the onions chopped, curry powder, paste, lemon juice, salt and saccharine into a saucepan and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Strain and let it become cold. Skim, return to the saucepan, add the whites whipped, and whisk until it boils. Strain through a clean teaclotli and it will be found to be clear. Serve a few dice of cooked chicken in the soup if liked. CREAM SOUP. (diabetic.) 1 pint of veal or chicken stock. ^ gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. Cucumber or French beans. Prepare the garnish by cutting dice, balls, or fancy shapes out of the cucumber. If using French beans 0SICKROOM COOKERY. 194 string them across, and cut into diamonds. Boil in salted water from seven to twelve minutes until tender. Make the stock hot. Add the cucumber or beans. Mix the yolks and cream together and strain in. Cook gently for two or three minutes, but do not boil, or the eggs will curdle. Season and serve. CREAM SOUP WITH PARMESAN. (diabetic.) 1 pint of white stock. ji gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheete. Make the stock hot in a saucepan. Mix the cream and yolks together and strain in. Cook for two or three minutes without boiling and season. Take off the fire, add the grated Parmesan and serve. LOBSTER BISQUE. (diabetic.) £ lb. of lobster shells. ^ oz. of butter. 1 small whiting or fish bones. 1 pint of stock. 1 shallot chopped. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 1 gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pound the shell and the small legs of the lobster finely in the mortar with the butter, and put this mixture intoSICKROOM COOKERY. 195 the stock. Add the whiting, shallot, kerbs and mace, and simmer for twelve minutes. Then strain and return the soup to the saucepan. Mix the cream and yolks together and strain in. Season with lemon juice aud cayenne, cook for three minutes without boiling, and serve. A few dice of lobster or shelled shrimps may be served in the soup if liked. PUREE OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. (diabetic.) ^ lb. of Brussels sprouts. 1 pint of white stock. ^ gill of cream. Pepper and salt. Trim the sprouts and put into a saucepan of boiling water with a tiny piece of soda. Boil until tender, drain, and rub throug-h a hair sieve. Put the stock, sieved sprouts and cream into a saucepan, make very hot, season and serve. SPINACH SOUP. (diabetic.) 1 lb. of spinach.. ^ oz. of butter. 1 pint of white stock. 1 gill of cream. Pepper and salt. Wash the spinach thoroughly and strip off the stalks. Boil with a tiny scrap of soda aud salt. Drain and rub through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan. add the spinach and196 SICKROOM COOKERY. then the stock, bring to the boil. Season with pepper and salt and add the cream Serve. For ordinary cooking where hour is allowed, add \ oz. of flour to the butter, stir it in smoothly, then add the spinach and stock and stir until it boils. Finish as above. SWEETBREAD SOUP. (diabetic.) 1 pair of bullocks’ sweetbreads. 1^ pint of stock. 1 piece of celery. 1 small bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. \ gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. Pepper and salt. Blanch the sweetbreads and cut away the pipes and fat. Slice them thinly and put into a saucepan with the stock, herbs, celery and mace. Simmer for thirty minutes until tender. Rub all through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan and make very hot. Mix the cream and yolks together and strain in. Cook for two minutes, but do not boil, season and serve. Bullocks’ sweetbreads are much less expensive than calves’ sweetbreads, and will do equally well for this soup.197 DIABETIC FISH DISHES. BAKED FISH. (diabetic ) 1 haddock, or slice of cod Truss the fish into shape, brush over with beaten egg, and shake a few pounded gluten crumbs over. Place on a baking tin with a little dripping and bake from fifteen to thirty minutes according to size. Baste well. Serve with diabetic anchovy sauce round (“ Diabetic Sauces”). BOILED FISH (diabetic.) Boil the fish according to the ordinary rules, and serve with diabetic egg sauce poured over. FISH PIE (diabetic.) J lb. of cooked fish. J pint of stock. 1 egg Take the fish from the bones and put it into a piedisli. Season with pepper and salt. Beat the egg well, add the stock, and pour over the fish. Bake in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. This pie is much improved by the addition of half a gill of cream. LOBSTER OR SHRIMP BALLS. (diabetic.) 1 lobster, or j pint of shrimps, shelled. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 2 yolks of egg. Pepper and salt. 1 egg and gluten breadcrumbs.SICKROOM COOKERY. 198 Chop the lobster or shrimps, and put them into a saucepan, add the cream and yolks, cook for a moment until they bind, season and turn on to a plate to cool. Make into balls, dip into beaten egg, then into gluten crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain well, and serve with fried parsley on a dish paper. Stock may be used instead of the cream, but it is not so nice. LOBSTER CREAMS. (diabetic.) ^ a lobster. \ gill of cream. 1 tablespoonful of mayonnaise sauce. Chop the lobster, and add the mayonnaise sauce to it. Whip the cream and lightly stir in the lobster and mayon- naise. Season and serve in ramakin casos. Sprinkle a little lobster coral on top. If liked, the mayonnaise sauce may be omitted, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar used instead. OYSTER RAMAKINS. (diabetic.) 12 sauce oysters. -1 gill oyster liquid. jy gill of cream. 1 whole egg. China or paper ramakin cases. Blanch the oysters, remove the beard, and cut the oysters in half. Warm the oyster liquid, beat the yolks of egg with the cream and stir them in. Stir until the mixture slightly thickens, then season and put in the oysters. Serve in the ramakin cases. (Be careful not to boil or the mixture will curdle.)199 DIABETIC MEAT DISHES. BROWN STEW OF BEEF. (diabetic.) 1 lb. of steak or gravy beef. 1 oz. of butter. 1 small onion. 4 fresb mushrooms. \ -pint of stock. I bunch of herbs. 1 oz. of meat glaze. Cut the meat into nice square pieces. Make the butter hot and fry the chopped onion a light golden colour. Put in the meat and stir it in butter, but do not let t e onion burn. Cook for one minute. Then add the stock, the mushrooms quartered, and the herbs. Simmer for two hours until tender. Season, add the meat glaze and let it dissolve. Place the meat on a hot dish, and strain the gravy over. FILLETS OF BEEF AND TOMATOES. (diabetic.) 1 lb. of fillet of beef. 1 oz. of butter. 2 firm tomatoes. Tomato sauce (see “ Diabetic Sauces ”). Cut the beef into thick slices, trim into neat fillets and season. Slice the tomatoes and place them on a buttered baking tin in the oven.SICKROOM COOKERY. 200 Fry fclie fillets of beef in the butter, cooking for about three minutes on each side. Dish in a row, one fillet leaning upon the other, with a slice of cooked tomato between. Pour a little diabetic tomato or brown sauce round. BEEF OLIVES. (diabetic.) £ lb. of topside, or steak. 5 lb. of diabetic sausage-meat. ^ pint of stock. 1 small bouquet of herbs. 1 shallot. 6 peppercorns and allspice. Tj oz. of meat glaze. Cut the beef into thin slices, place a spoonful of sausage- meat on each, roll up and tie into shape. Put the stock into a saucepan, add the sliced shallot, bunch of herbs, and spices, and put the beef rolls in. Simmer gently for two hours until tender. Remove the string and place the rolls on a hot dish and keep warm. Add the glaze to the stock, dissolve, season, and strain over the beef rolls. Garnish at the corners of the dish with cooked spinach or cauliflower. BOUDINETTES OF CHICKEN. (diabetic.) 3 oz. of cooked chicken. I oz. of cooked ham. 1 tablespoonful of grated cheese. 1 tablespoonful of cooked spinach. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 1 yolk of egg. Pig’s caul. Chop the chicken and ham finely and put them into a saucepan with the spinach, cheese, cream, and yolk of201 SICKROOM COOKERY. egg. Season and cook for a moment. Turn on to a plate to cool. Cut tlie caul into squares, put a tablespoonful of the mixture on to each and fold into a square or round cake. Bake in the oven for six minutes, brush over with meat glaze, and serve with a little good gravy. Or serve on a bed of spinach, if liked, with the gravy round. RAMAKINS OF CHICKEN. (diabetic.) The above mixture, instead of being wrapped in caul, may be put into paper ramakin cases, baked in the oven for five minutes, and served. CHICKEN CREAM. (diabetic.) J lb. of raw chicken or veal. If gill of cream. 1 egg' Pass the meat through a mincing machine and pound in a mortar. Add the egg, season well, and rub through a sieve. Whip the cream slightly and stir the meat into it. Place in a well-buttered mould and steam gently for thirty minutes. Turn on to a hot dish and serve with white sauce (diabetic) poured over. CREPINETTES OF CHICKEN OR VEAL. (diabetic.) 3 oz. of cooked chicken or veal. 1 oz. of cooked hamior tongue. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Grated lemon rind or nutmeg. Pig’s caul. Mince the chicken and ham, bind together with an egg, season witli pepper, salt, and a suspicion of grated lemonSICKROOM COOKERY. 202 rind, or nutmeg. Cut the caul into squares, place some of the mixture on each, fold it over, and then form into a flat round cake. Egg each cake over, dip into pounded gluten crumbs and fry in boiling fat. Drain well and dish on cooked spinach. If liked, do not egg and crumb the crepinettes, but bake in the oven for six minutes, brush over with meat glaze and serve in a quail case on a tablespoonful of cooked spinach. CROaUETTES OF CHICKEN. (diabetic.) 3 oz. of cooked chicken or veal. 1 oz. of cooked ham. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 2 yolks of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Seasoning. I egg and pounded gluten breadcrumbs. Chop the chicken and ham finely, and put them into a saucepan. Add the cream and yolks of egg, season witli lemon juice, pepper and salt, and cook until the mixture binds together. Turn on to a jdate to go cold. Make into balls, dip in beaten egg, then into the gluten crumbs and fry in boiling fat. Drain, and serve on a dish paper with fried parsley. Stock may be used instead of the cream, if cream cannot be obtained. CHICKEN RAMAKINS. (diabetic.) 3 oz. of cooked chicken or sweetbread, 1 oz. of cooked ham. ^ oz. of butter.SICKROOM COOKERY. 203 4 mushrooms. k o-ill of cream or stock. Z O 1 yolk. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Seasoning. China or paper ramakin cases. Chop the mushrooms and cook in the butter for ten minutes. Cut the chicken and ham into small dice and add to the saucepan with the cream. Season and add the yolk of egg. Cook until very hot. Serve immediately in the ramakin cases, garnished with truffle or chopped parsley. CURRY. (diabetic.) 1 lb. of fresh beef, veal, or a chicken. 2 oz. of butter. 1 large onion. 1 tablespoonful of curry powder. 2 tablespoonfuls of almonds. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. -J, pint of stock or water. The almonds should be blanched, chopped, and rubbed through a wire sieve. They should then be put to steep ' in the stock or water. Cut the meat into square blocks, or, if a chicken or rabbit, into small joints. Chop the onion and fry a golden brown in the butter. Strain it out and put aside. Return the butter to the saucepan, and fry the meat lightly. Add the curry powder and lemon juice. Fry without browning for five minutes. Add the stock and almonds and bring to the boil. Then return the onion toSICKROOM COOKERY. 204 the curry. Simmer gently for two hours. Taste, and if at all acid dissolve one tabloid of saccharine in a teaspoon- ful of water and stir in. Dish with a border of well- cooked spinach or cauliflower round the dish. ESCALLOPES OF CHICKEN. (diabetic.) 2 legs of chicken. 6 oz. of veal. 3 oz. of ham or bacon. 1 egg. yolk. Nutmeg, pepper and salt. ^ pint of stock. Cooked spinach. Bone the legs of a fowl. Pass the veal and bacon twice through a mincing machine, then mix it in a basin with one raw egg and the seasoning. Stuff each leg with the mixture and make it into an even roll shape. Tie each in muslin. Put the stock into a saucepan with a shallot, and a small bunch of herbs. Lay in the chicken rolls and cook for one hour gently. Then remove the muslin, slice the legs in half-inch slices, dish on a bed of dressed spinach, one escallop leaning on the next, and pour a littls gravy or diabetic white or brown sauce round. ESCALLOPES OF PIGEON. (diabetic.) 1 pigeon. £ lb. of veal. 2 oz. of bacon. 1 yolk of egg. 2 mushrooms.' SICKROOM COOKERY. 205 Pepper and salt. ^ pint of stock. Cooked spinach for dishing. Pass the veal and bacon twice through a mincing machine, and mix in a basin with the yolk of egg, chopped mushrooms, and seasoning. Bone the pigeon, and spread it out. Place the prepared meats in a roll down the centre. Fold in muslin and tie at each end, keeping it in a round roll shape, and place in the stock with the pigeon bones. Simmer gently for one hour and a half. Remove the muslin, slice the roll into half-inch slices, and dish on a bed of cooked spinach. Pour a little tomato sauce round, or a tablespoonfnl of meat glaze may be added to the stock, and it can then be strained round. N.B.—The pigeon, if desired, can be ordered boned from the poulterer. FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN OR VEAL. (diabetic.) Joints of chicken cooked or uncooked. \ pint of stock. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. 1 small bouquet of herbs. 1 blade of mace. | gill of cream. 2 yolks of egg. Pepper aud salt. Rolls of cooked bacon. Cut the chicken into nice pieces, put them into the stock, add the lemon juice, herbs and mace. Simmer gently until tender. Stir the yolks of egg with the cream, remove the mace and herbs, and strain in. Season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cook for one minute longerSTCKROOM COOKERY. 20G without boiling, or tbe eggs will curdle, and serve on a hot dish. Place the rolls of bacon which have been cooked on a skewer in the oven round. STEWED CHICKEN AND MUSHROOMS. Cook as above, adding half a dozen mushrooms to the mi xture. MUTTON CUTLETS. (diabetic.) 1 lb. of best end of neck of mutton. 1 egg. Gluten crumbs from gluten coffee biscuits. Cooked spinach, French beans, or mushrooms. Trim the cutlets into shape, dip each into the beaten egg seasoned with salt and pepper, then into pounded gluten crumbs. Flatten the crumbs on to the cutlets and fry in lard or clarified butter. Dish in a circle. Have the spinach or other vegetable made hot with a little butter and place in the centre. Poui’ a little good gravy (saved from a roast joint) or some diabetic tomato or cutlet sauce round (see “Diabetic Sauces”). QUAILS. (diabetic.) 2 quails. J lb. of lean pork or veal. 2 oz. of bacon. 1 oz. of butter. 1 bunch of herbs. 6 allspice. 6 peppercorns. Stock. Cooked spinach. Bone the quails. Cut the pork and bacon into small207 SICKROOM COOKERY. dice and fry them in the butter with the spices and herbs. Pound in the mortar, season, and rub through a sieve. Stuff the quails with the mixture, and tie in muslin. Put a shallot and a small bunch of herbs into a saucepan, and just cover with stock. Put in the quails, and simmer gently for forty minutes. Remove the muslin. Cut each quail carefully in half, brush over with a little meat glaze, and dish on a bed of hot cooked spinach in a quail case. If liked, the quails may be allowed to become cold, glazed, and dished on a small bed of mayonnaise and salad, in a quail case. SAUSAGES. (diabetic.) 1 lb. of pork or veal. 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs or sage. \ teaspoonful of white pepper. 1 teaspoonful of salt. Cut the pork—fat and lean, just as it comes—into pieces, shake the pepper, salt, and herbs over, and pass through a mincing machine twice. Season well. Tie the sausage-skin to the muzzle of the machine, and allow the meat to pass through. Every three inches give the skins a twist to form the divisions. If no sausage-skins are available, the sausage-meat may be made into small balls, dipped into beaten egg, then into pounded gluten crumbs, and fried gently. If making the sausages of veal, add half a pound of bacon to the mixture. SALMI OF GAME. (diabetic.) Game, wild duck, or pigeons. 1 oz. of butter. 2 shallots.208 SICKROOM COOKERY. | pint of stock. 1 bunch of herbs. 1 glass of claret. 1 oz. of meat glaze. Cut the game, whether cooked or uncooked, into nice- sized joints. Fry the chopped shallot lightly in the butter, then stir in the pieces of game, and fry without browning. Add the stock, herbs, and claret, and simmer until tender. Then add the meat glaze, and dissolve. Place the joints of game on a hot dish and strain the gravy over. If at all acid, dissolve a tabloid of saccharine, and add to the salmi sauce before dishing. SWEETBREADS. (diabetic.) Sweetbreads can be prepared as in the recipe for braised sweetbread (page 97). They should be dished on a bed of cooked spinach or French beans, and have any good diabetic sauce liked poured round. Sweetbreads can be served fried (page 96), using pounded gluten crumbs instead of bread crumbs. STUFFED VEGETABLE MARROW. (diabetic.) 1 small vegetable marrow. Sausage-meat (diabetic). Peel the vegetable marrow. Cut off one end and care- fully scoop out all the seeds and core. Mix one egg with the sausage-meat, season well, and fill the marrow. Replace the end and tie together with tape or strips of muslin. Place in a baking tin with half a pint of stock and bake in the oven until tender. Serve on a hot dish with a little good gravy round.209 SICKROOM COOKERY. VEAL OR PORK BRAWN. (diabetic.) A lb. of veal cutlet or pork. \ lb. of bacon. 2 harcl-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. i teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. 1 gill of white stock. 2 sheets of gelatine. Seasoning. Remove the skin and cut the veal and bacon into dice. Choose a small dry mould or cake tin, and decorate the bottom and sides with a few slices of hard-boiled egg. Chop up the rest of the egg and mix it with the veal, bacon, parsley and lemon rind. Season well and fill the mould. Dissolve the gelatine in the stock, season, and strain in. Keep the remainder of the stock. Cover the brawn with a greased paper and bake in a slow oven for three hours. Then strain in the rest of the stock, and let it go cold and firm. To turn out, dip for one moment into warm water and turn on to a dish. Garnish with parsley. TO PREPARE MEAT GLAZE. Take two cpiarts or more of strong second stock (p. 42) made from bones; strain, and let it become cold. Remove all fat from the top. Put this stock into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water. Boil as rapidly as possible, skimming frequently to remove all scum. As the stock reduces it will become a clear brown glaze. When thick and clear strain into a jar. Useful for adding to diabetic soups, stews, or sauces. It sets when cold, and if covered with clarified butter will keep for some time. Meat glaze can be bought ready prepared. p210 DIABETIC VEGETABLE DISHES. GREEN VEGETABLES. (diabetic.) Greens, spinach, turnip tops, French beans, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cabbage and lettuce are all allowed to the diabetic. They should be boiled in the usual way, and dressed with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. Cauliflower and vegetable marrow are also allowed, and should be cooked and served with diabetic white sauce or sauce au gratin. Asparagus, seakale, and celery are also among the vegetables recommended, and should be cooked in the usual way and served with diabetic French melted butter, or white sauce (see “ Diabetic Sauces ”). ASPARAGUS. (diabetic.) Boil the asparagus, drain, and place in a hot vegetable dish. Have ready some diabetic Dutch sauce and pour over. DRESSED CABBAGE. 1 Savoy or cabbage. 3 oz. of cooked bam or bacon. 1 oz. of butter. Cook the savoy, drain well and chop. Make the butter hot, stir in the cabbage, add the bam in dice. Season and serve immediately, very hot.211 SICKROOM COOKERY. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN (diabetic.) 1 cauliflower. Diabetic sauce au gratin. Boil the cauliflower until tender. Place in a hot vegetable dish. Have some sauce au gratin ready and pour over. Or the cauliflower may be served cold, coated with mayonnaise sauce. CELERY, STEWED. (diabetic.) 1 head of celery. Diabetic white sauce. Wash the celery well, cut into even lengths, and tie together. Boil if possible in stock. Seiwe in a hot vegetable dish, and pour some diabetic white or Dutch sauce O'ver. Or shake some grated cheese over the celery, put a few scraps of butter on top, and bake for five minutes. CUCUMBER FARCI. (diabetic.) Cucumber. Diabetic sausage-meat (page 207). \ pint of stock. Peel the cucumber and cut it into blocks about one inch in length. Remove the core and fill with sausage- meat. Simmer gently in the stock until cooked. Serve on a hot dish, sprinkle a little cheese over the top of each, and pour some good gravy or a diabetic sauce round.SICKROOM COOKERY. 212 CURRIED CAULIFLOWER. (diabetic.) 1 cauliflowei\ Curry sauce. Boil the cauliflower aud have some curry sauce ready, the same as for curried eggs (page 216). Make the cauli- flower hot in the sauce, and serve. MUSHROOMS FARCIES. (diabetic.) 6 mushrooms. 1 tablespoonful of chopped ham. \ teaspoonful of chopped shallot. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 7* oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. Peel and trim the mushrooms. Chop the trimmings and cook in a saucepan with the butter, shallot, parsley and ham for a few minutes. Put the mixture on top of each mushroom, place on a baking tin and bake for eight minutes. Serve on a small buttered croute of gluten bread, very hot. GRILLED MUSHROOMS. (diabetic.) 6 or 8 mushrooms. 2 tablespoonfuls of gravy or stock. ^ oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. Rinse, peel, and trim the mushrooms. Remove the stalks and put them, reversed, on to a small baking tin with scraps of butter, pepper and salt, on each. Pour over the stock, and bake in the oven for about eight minutes. Have some thin slices of gluten bread buttered and made hot. Place a mushroom on each and serve immediately.213 SICKROOM COOKERY. MUSHROOMS AND POACHED EGGS. Cook as in preceding recipe. Have two poached eggs ready, place on the gluten bread and serve the mushrooms and oiled butter round. STEWED MUSHROOMS. (diabetic.) -J, lb. of mushrooms. 1 oz. of butter. 1 s-ill of stock. Pepper, salt and lemon juice. Prepare the mushrooms as above. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Stir in the mushrooms without breaking them. Add the stock, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice Simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish. SEAKALE AU PARMESAN. (diabetic.) Seakale. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Cut the seakale into lengths; tie lightly together and boil. Dish in layers with the cheese between and shaken over the top. Place the butter in scraps over the seakale, bake for three minutes, and serve. VEGETABLE MARROW AU GRATIN. (diabetic.) Peel and cut the marrow into nice-sized blocks. Boil, drain well, place in a hot vegetable dish, and pour some diabetic sauce au gratin over.214 DIABETIC SAVOURY DISHES. ASPIC JELLY. (diabetic.) 1 quart of good second stock. ‘2i\ oz. of sheet gelatine. Jy gill of dry sherry. \ gill of tarragon vinegar. 2 whites of egg whipped. Put all the ingredients into a, saucepan, and whisk nntil it boils. Boil well for two minutes. Strain through a clean teacloth. Return the jelly to the cloth three or four times until it is perfectly clear. This is useful to garnish cold dishes or for savouries. SAVOURIES IN ASPIC. (diabetic.) Lobster, prawns, shrimps, salmon, hard-boiled eggs, dice of chicken, game, or vegetables, may be set in aspic. The food must be cooked first. Rinse a small mould with cold water, set in a layer of aspic. When firm, decorate lightly with egg, truffle, chilli or parsley. Set down with aspic. Then fill in the mould with layers of the food used and cover with aspic jelly. Let each layer become firm before putting in the next, until full. When firm, turn out by dipping into warm water. Garnish with salad or aspic.SICKROOM COOKERY. 215 ANCHOVY TOAST. (diabetic.) 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. of butter. Anchovy essence. Grlnten coffee biscuit, buttered. Slice the gluten biscuit, and cut into small squares. Cut the eggs across, and pound the yolks in the mortar with the butter and sufficient anchovy essence to flavour. Pass through a sieve, and pile up on the cro&tes of gluten biscuit. Decorate with the white of egg chopped and a little parsley. ANCHOVY EGGS. Use the same mixture as above. Cut the eggs carefully across the centre, and cut n slice off each end so that the eggs will stand. Fill each half with the mixture, and serve garnished with watercress. BAKED EGG. (diabetic.) 1 egg. Butter, Pepper and salt. Butter a china ramakin case, break the egg carefully, and put it in. Season with pepper and salt, and bake in a moderate oven for four minutes until the white is lightly set. Serve at once. SCRAMBLED EGGS (diabetic.) 2 eggs. 1 oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. 1 thin slice of gluten bread, buttered. Toast a, thin slice of gluten bread or coffee biscuit.SICKROOM COOKERY. 216 Butter it well and put on a dish to keep warm. Beat the eggs, and season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, pour in the eggs, and stir well, keeping every particle in motion until it becomes a soft creamy paste. Serve immediately on the gluten slices, or, if for ordinary patients, on toast. EGG AND CHEESE SAVOURY. (diabetic.) 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of cheese grated. Pepper and salt. Cut the eggs carefully in half, removing the yolk. Take a small slice off each end of the egg so that it will stand. Pound the yolks, cheese, and butter together in a mortar, season, and rub through a sieve. Fill the half eggs with the mixture, place on a small dish, and garnish with watercress or mustard and cress. CURRIED EGGS OR SHRIMPS. (diabetic.) 2 hard-boiled eggs, or 1 gill of shelled shrimps. 1 oz. of butter. 1 shallot. 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, teasjioonful of lemon juice. tj gill of stock. 1 0,'ill of cream. 2 O Chop the eggs or cut the shrimps across. Melt the butter, fry the chopped shallot a golden colour, add theSICKROOM COOKERY. 217 curry powder and lemon juice, and fry gently for three minutes. Then put in the stock, and stir until it boils. Let this simmer by a slow fire for ten minutes, add the cream, the eggs or shrimps, and make hot together. Season and serve on a small hot dish, or in china ramakin cases. Cooked cauliflower or spinach may he served with this curry. SWISS EGGS. (diabetic.) 2 eggs. Grated cheese. Butter. Butter two china ramakin cases. Put a teaspoonful of cheese at the bottom, then break the eggs carefully and put them in. Shake a teaspoonful of grated cheese on top, add a scrap of butter, and seasoning. Bake until lightly set and serve. The eggs may be cooked on a small dish if liked. SHRIMP EGGS. (diabetic.) 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. of shelled shrimps. 1 oz. of butter. Watercress. Cut the eggs carefully in half and a slice from each end so that they will stand. Pound the yolks, butter and shrimps well together in the mortar and season. Fill the eggs with the mixture and serve in a bed of watercress. If liked, two sardines may bo substituted for the shrimps and the mixture made in the same way. It should in this case be passed through a sieve.218 SICKROOM. COOKERY. ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. (diabetic.) 4 oysters. 4 thin slices of bacon. Lemon juice and cayenne. Slices of gluten biscuit. Watercress. Blanch the oysters and remove the beard. Wrap each oyster in a slice of bacon and season with lemon juice and cayenne. Place each roll of bacon on a neat slice of gluten biscuit and bake in the oven until the bacon is cooked. Serve on a hot dish garnished with watercress. CAVIARE. (diabetic.) 2 hard-boiled eggs. Caviare. 1 tomato. Cut the eggs in half, remove the yolk, and cut a slice from each end so that the eggs will stand. Fill with caviare, and rub the yolks through a sieve and shake over. Slice the tomatc., season with a few drops of vinegar and oil, and place one half egg on each. If liked, the caviare may be served piled up on a neatly-cut crouton of gluten bread, either plain or decorated with whipped butter. CHICKEN OR GAME SALAD. (diabetic.) Pieces of cooked chicken. 1 lettuce. Watercress or mustard and cress.219 SICKROOM COOKERY. Celery. 1 hard-boiled egg. Mayonnaise sance (page 229). Cut the cooked chicken into dice. Cut the salad vegetables into coarse shreds. Stir into the mayonnaise sance, then pile up in the centre of a salad bowl. Garnish with some bright leaves of lettuce, and the egg cut into quarters. Lobster or salmon may be used in the same way. CAULIFLOWER SALAD. (diabetic.) 1 boiled cauliflower. Mayonnaise sauce. Divide the cauliflower into nice pieces and place in the salad bowl. Pour the mayonnaise sauce over. CREAM CHEESE. (diabetic.) \ pint of cream. ^ tsaspoonful of salt. Porous piece of soft linen. Add the salt to the cream and pour it into a piece of linen or kitchen towelling. Tie up the corners, forming it into a hall, and hang on a nail or hook. Place a basin underneath and let it drip for four days. Then take it down and press it into a flat pat. It will have become solid. Remove the cloth, smooth the edges with a knife, and mark the top across. Serve on a fancy paper garnished with vine leaves or parsley.SICKROOM COOKERY. 220 CREAM CHEESE SAVOURY. (diabetic.) gill of cream. • ^ oz. of grated Parmesan. Cayenne. Croiites of gluten coffee biscuits. Cut thin slices of gluten biscuit, trim them into rounds or small squares and toast lightly. Whip the cream, add the cbeese and cayenne, and pile in rocky heaps on the gluten croutes. Serve as a cold savoury. CROUTES OF HAM. (diabetic.) 1 oz. of butter. 1 egg. ^ oz. of cooked ham. oz. of grated cheese. Croutons of gluten biscuit. Butter and put the gluten croutes to get hot in the oven. Melt the butter in a saucepan, beat the egg well, add the cheese and the ham chopped. Stir into the butter and cook until it binds. Pile on the gluten croutes and serve at once. CROUTES OF LOBSTER OR SHRIMPS. (diabetic.) Lobster or shrimps. Mustard and cress. Mayonnaise sauce. Slices of gluten biscuits. Cut the gluten biscuits into nice croutes. Put some mustard and cress on each, chop the lobster or shrimps,SICKROOM COOKERY. 221 and place them on top in the form of a pyramid. Pour a teaspoonful of thick mayonnaise sauce over each. Serve on a lace paper. The same mixture may he served in china ramalcin cases if liked. OLIVES AND ANCHOVY BUTTER. (diabetic.) 4 Spanish olives. Anchovy butter mixture. Slices of gluten coffee biscuit. Cut the gluten biscuit into small croutes. Spread a little anchovy paste thickly on each. Stone the olives with a small cutter, and press the olive firmly on to the croute. Make the egg mixture the same as for anchovy toast (page 215), and fill each olive. Garnish with chopped white of egg round the base of each olive, and serve. OLIVES A LA TARTARE. (diabetic.) 4 Spanish olives. 1 tablespoonful of mayonnaise sauce. 1 teaspoonful of chopped capers. Slices of gluten coffee biscuit. Anchovy paste. Spread a little, anchovy paste on each croute of gluten biscuit. Stone and press each olive firmly on to the croutes. Mix the capers with the mayonnaise, and (ill each olive. Garnish with powdered yolk cf egg.222 SICKROOM COOKERY. SARDINES WITH EGG CREAM. (diabetic.) 3 sardines. 3 slices of gluten biscuit. 2 yolks of egg. joz. of butter. 1 dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. J teaspoonful of made mustard. Out the gluten biscuit into nice square pieces. Remove the skin and bones from the sardines, and break into flakes. Place on the gluten slices and put into the oven to make warm. Put the butter, yolks, vinegar, and mus- tard into a saucepan and stir until they slightly thicken. Pour over the sardines, and serve at once. SAVOURY OMELET. (foe diabetic oe convalescent patients.) 2 eggs. 1 oz. of butter. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Beat the eggs lightly together, add the parsley, and season with pepper and salt. Make the butter hot in an omelet pan, skim it well, then pour in the eggs. Stir well to prevent the omelet sticking, and to absorb some of the butter. Then let it set underneath, and while quite moist on top fold to the handle of the pan. Cook for one moment longer, and turn on to a hot dish. An omelet should be made and served in three minutes. Long cooking makes it tough and indigestible. A morsel of finely-chopped shallot may be added to the mixture if desired.SICKROOM COOKERY. 223 CHEESE OMELET. (diabetic ) Make as for “ Savoury Omelet,” omitting the parsley, and adding one ounce of grated cheese. HAM OMELET. (diabetic.) Make as for “ Savoury Omelet,” adding one ounce of chopped cooked ham or tongue. CRAB OR OYSTER OMELET. Make as for “ Savoury Omelet,” adding two tablespoon- fuls o* crab. For oyster omelet add six oysters, blanched, bearded, and cut in four. VEGETABLE OMELETS. (diabetic.) Make as for “ Savoury Omelet.” Have a couple of table- spoonfuls of well-cooked cauliflower, French beans, or spinach ready, made hot in small saucepan with a little butter, pepper and salt. When the moment comes for folding the omelet over, lay in the cooked vegetable, fold the omelet over, and finish as usual. Chopped shrimps, lobster, or blanched oysters, may be put in in the same manner.224 DIABETIC SAUCES. WHITE SAUCE. (diabetic.) 2 gill of cream. ^ gill of stock. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. (Lemon juice.) Put the stock into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and draw aside. Beat the cream and egg together and strain in. Season well with pepper and salt and return to the fh’e. Stir carefully until it begins to thicken like custard Do not boil or it will curdle. Strain and serve. Can be served with chicken or veal cream, or until boiled chicken. A few drops of lemon juice may be added if liked, it there is no stock, a little Bovril or Liebig’s Extract may he mixed with water and used. ANCHOVY SAUCE. (diabetic.) Make some white sauce by the recipe, and stir in sufficient anchovy essence to make it a pale pink. Serve for fish. CAPER SAUCE. (diabetic.) Make some white sauce as above, and stir in a dessert- spoonful of capers and a teaspoonful of the caper vinegar.SICKROOM COOKERY. 225 EGG SAUCE. (diabetic.) Make some white sauce by the recipe, and stir in one hard-boiled egg finely chopped. PARSLEY SAUCE. (diabetic.) Make some white sauce or French melted butter by the recipe, and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Fennel may be brought to the boil, drained, chopped finely, and used in the same way. BROWN SAUCE. (diabetic.) \ oz. of butter. 1 shallot. 4 fresh mushrooms. \ pint of stock. ^ oz. of meat glaze. Pepper and salt. Make the butter hot in a saucepan, fry the chopped shallot, then add the mushrooms minced, and cook for a few moments. Add the stock and simmer for fifteen minutes. Rub all through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, add the meat glaze, let it dissolve, season well, and serve. ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. (diabetic.) Make some brown sauce, as above, adding a tomato sliced. Cook, strain, stir in one tablespoonful of dry sherry, season and serve. QSICKROOM COOKERY. 22G DUTCH SAUCE. (diabetic.) \ oz. of butter. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 1 yolk of egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cayenne. Melt the butter, stir in tbe cream and yolk 0f c"°\ stir *J OO1 carefully for a few moments over tbe fire, add the lemon juice and cayenne and serve. Useful for fish or for serving with dressed vegetables. DEVIL SAUCE. (diabetic.) 1 tablespoonful of Harvey sauce. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 1 tablespoonful of butter (melted). 1 teaspoonful of mustard. Pepper and salt. Mix all the above ingredients smoothly together on a plate. Score the legs of a cooked chicken, or whatever is to be devilled, lengthways, and soak well in the sauce. Grill or fry in a little butter. Serve very hot. Or add a tablespoonful of cream, make very hot, and pour over the grill-meat when cooked. ERENCH MELTED BUTTER. (diabetic.) 1 oz. of butter. I gill of water. 1 whole egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cayenne. Boil the butter and water together, take off, and stir inSICKROOM COOKERY. 227 Mie yolks of eg'g. Cook for one moment, add the lemon jaice and cayenne, and serve. Useful for fisli or for serving with vegetables. CREAM SAUCE EOR PUDDINGS. (diabetic.) \ gill of cream. | tabloid of saccharine. 1 teaspoonfnl of dry sherry. Put the cream into a saucepan and add the sherry. Dissolve the saccharine in a teaspoonfnl of water. Add a few drops, just sufficient to slightly sweeten the cream. Make warm and serve. GERMAN SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. (diabetic.) 2 yolks of egg. 1 glass of dry sherry or brandy. 1 tabloid of saccharine. Dissolve the saccharine in the sherry. Pat the yolks and sherry into a small saucepan, and whisk over the fire until the sauce is whisked to a perfect froth. If at all too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream or water to thin it. Serve. SAUCE AU GRATIN. (diabetic.) ^ oz. of butter. ^ gill of stock. ■5 gill of cream. 1 whole egg. 1 oz. of grated cheese. Melt the butter, add the stock, and beat together. Beat the yolks of egg with the cream and stir in. CookSICKROOM COOKERY. 228 until the sauce slightly thickens, take off the fire, and add the cheese and seasoning. This sauce will be found most useful for pouring over boiled cauliflower, vegetable marrow, or celery. The yolks may be omitted if liked. HORSERADISH SAUCE. (diabetic.) 2 tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish. \ gill of cream. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 1 tabloid of saccharine. J teaspoonful of mustard. Dissolve the saccharine in the vinegar. Put the grated O O horseradish into the cream, add the mustard and vinegar to taste. Serve. (If the horseradish is very hot, omit the mustard.) LOBSTER, OYSTER, OR SHRIMP SAUCE. (diabetic.) \ gill of fish stock. ^ gill of cream. 1 whole egg. 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. \ lobster, oysters or shrimps. Put the fish stock into a saucepan. Add the lobster or shrimps, and make very hot. Beat the yolks of egg with the cream, and strain in. Add the lemon juice and season. Cook for one minute without boiling, and serve. If using oysters, bring six sauce oystei’s to the boil in their own liquid. Strain and use the liquid for the sauce. Beard the oysters and cut in four, heat in the sauce, and serve.SICKROOM COOKERY. 229 MAYONNAISE SAUCE. (diabetic.) 2 yolks of egg. 1 gill of salad oil. 1 teaspoonful of vinegar. 1 teaspoonfnl of cliilli vinegar. 1 teaspoonfnl of tarragon vinegar. J teaspoonful of mustard. Pepper and salt. Drain the yolks of egg well from the white, and put them into a small basin. Season with pepper and salt, and commence to add tbe oil, drop by drop, stirring well with a wooden spoon. As the sauce thickens the oil may be added more quickly, taking care not to curdle it. Season with the vinegars and mustard, and serve. Mayonnaise is useful as a salad dressing or to coat cold salmon or chicken as a chaudfroid sauce. It may also be served with various dishes of fish. TARTARE SAUCE. (diabetic.) Make some mayonnaise sauce and add a tablespoonful of chopped capers or a chopped gherkin. MINT SAUCE. (diabetic.) 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mint. 1 gill of vinegar. 2 tabloids of saccharine. Dissolve the saccharine in the vinegar, stir in the mint, and serve.230 SICKROOM COOKERY. MOUSSELINE SAUCE FOR SALMON OR FISH. (diabetic.) 2 yolks of egg. 1 dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. 1 tablespoonful of cream. Spinach or watercress. Rinse a handful of spinach or watercress, pound it in the mortar, and rub through a hair sieve. Put this green puree, the yolks of egg, cream and vinegar, into a saucepan, season and whisk over the fire until it becomes a light froth. Serve. COLD MOUSSELINE SAUCE. (diabetic.) \ gill of cream. \ gill of mayonnaise. Spinach or watercress. Rinse and pound the spinach and rub through a hair sieve. Whip the cream, stir in the mayonnaise sauce, and the green pui’ee. Serve with salmon or fish. PIQUANT SAUCE. (diabetic.) 1 shallot. 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. ^ gill of cream. 1 -yvhole egg. ^ oz. of butter. Put the vinegars into a saucepan with the finely-231 SICKROOM COOKERY. chopped shallot and boil until reduced to a small dessert- spoonful. Then put in the cream and bring to the boil, add the yolks of egg one by one and the butter m scraps until it is all absorbed. Cook until the sauce slightly thickens, but do not boil or it will curdle. Serve with roast beef, fillets of beef, or cutlets of mutton. SAUCE FOR CUTLETS. (diabetic.) J oz. of butter. I gill of stock. \ oz. of glaze. 1 teaspoonful of ketchup or Harvey sauce. Melt the butter, add the other ingredients, make hot together, and serve. SIMPLE WHITE SAUCE. (diabetic.) 1 gill of stock. I tablespoonful of cream. 1 whole egg. Seasoning. Bring the stock to the boil, stir the yolk of egg with the cream, and strain it into the stock. Cook for a few moments without boiling, season and serve. Useful for chicken or vegetables, such as cauliflower or boiled celery.SICKROOM COOKERY. 232 TOMATO SAUCE. (diabetic.) 4 good-sized tomatoes. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of bacon. 1 shallot. 1 bouquet of herbs. \ pint of stock. 1 oz. of meat glaze. Slice the tomatoes, peel and chop the shallot, and cut the bacon into small dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the bacon, sliced vegetables and herbs, and cook without browning for five minutes. Add the stock, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Rub all through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, add the meat glaze, and dissolve. Season and seiwe. This sauce will keep for a few days and may be made warm when needed.233 DIABETIC PUDDINGS. ALMOND CASTLES. (diabetic.) 2 oz. of butter. 2 yolks of egg. J lb. of almond flour. 1 tablespoonful of brandy. 2 tabloids of saccharine. 2 whites of egg stiffly whipped. Dissolve the saccharine in a teaspoonful of water. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the yolks of egg until smooth. Add the brandy, dissolved saccharine, and ground almonds. Stir in the stiffly-whipped whites of egg, mixing all as lightly together as possible. Put this mixture into well-buttered dariole moulds, and either bake or steam for thirty minutes. Serve with a little diabetic German sauce round, or plain if desired. ALMOND FRITTERS. (diabetic.) 1 egg. 1 oz. of ground almonds. 1 tabloid of saccharine. Few drops of vanilla. Dissolve the saccharine in a teaspoonful of water. Cream the yolk of egg until thick, lightly add the stiffly- whipped white, the ground almonds, vanilla, and dissolved saccharine. Drop the mixture in teaspoonfuls into a panSICKROOM COOKERY. 234 of frying fat, cook for a few seconds until the fritters swell and colour a pale fawn. Drain, and serve on a dish paper. ALMOND PASTRY. (diabetic.) 2 oz. of ground almonds. 2 yolks of egg. -Jj tabloid of saccharine. Put the ground almonds into a basin, stir in the yolks as needed, and the sacchai'ine dissolved in a teaspoonful of water. Roll out and use. Useful to line patty tins for cocoanut or lemon tartlets. For savouries omit the saccharine. ALMOND PYRAMIDS. (diabetic.) 2 oz. of butter. 2 oz. of ground almonds ^ glass of brandy. 2 tabloids of saccharine. 1 teaspoonful of water. Dissolve the saccharine in the water. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the almonds and brandy. Then add the saccharine. Serve cold, piled up on neatly-cut squares of gluten bread and hand gluten rusks. ALMOND SOUFFLE. (diabetic.) 2 yolks of egg. 3 whites of egg whipped. H oz. of ground almonds. 1 tabloid of saccharine. Vanilla. Butter an omelet pan with a little clarified butter.235 SICKROOM COOKERY. Cream tlie yolks of egg together until thick, add the whites stiffly whipped, shake in the almonds, vanilla, and the saccharine dissolved in a teaspoonful of water. Mix lightly together. Place in the omelet pan and bake for ten minutes. Turn out, serve on a hot dish, with or without a little diabetic sweet sauce. BAKED ALMOND PUDDING. (diabetic.) 2 eggs. ■| gill of cream. J oz. of butter. 2 oz. of ground almonds. 1 glass of brandy. 2 tabloids of saccharine. Dissolve the saccharine in a teaspoonful of water. Beat the eggs together, add the cream, the butter melted, and lightly stir in the ground almonds. Add the brandy and saccharine. Bake in a small piedish for fifteen minutes. Half quantity will be sufficient for a very small pudding. COCOANUT TARTLETS. (diabetic.) 1 egg. 1 oz. of unsweetened cocoanut. oz. of ground almonds. 1 tabloid of saccharine. Line some patty tins with a little almond pastry (see recipe). Cream the yolk of egg until thick, then lightly stir in the white stiffly whijnped, the cocoanut, almonds,236 SICKROOM COOKERY. and the saccharine dissolved in a teaspoonful of water. Place a dessertspoonful in each patty pan, and bake from twelve to fifteen minutes. Serve. ALMOND CREAM. (diabetic.) -}> pint of cream. 2 oz. of almonds. 1 teaspoonful of water. 2 (^-grain) tabloids of saccharine. \ oz. of sheet gelatine. Dissolve the saccharine in a teaspoonful of -water. Whip the cream, add the saccharine and the almonds chopped. Melt the gelatine in a saucepan with a little water. Strain into the cream. Set the mixture in small dariole moulds rinsed with cold water, or in one mould if liked. When firm turn out. PISTACHIO CREAM. (diabetic.) Make in the same way, substituting pistachios for the almonds. CREAM BLANCMANGE. ' (diabetic.) 1> pint of cream whipped. -J pint of water. \ oz. of gelatine. 4 tabloids of saccharine. Strip of lemon peel. Cut some thin strips of lemon peel and put them into a saucepan with the water, gelatine and saccharine. BringSICKROOM COOKERY. 237 slowly to tlio boil, then strain on to tlio cream in a basin. Stir lightly together until setting. Set in dariole moulds ox' one lai’ge mould. When firm tuim out. If a small blancmange is needed, half quantity of the ingredients may be used. COFFEE CREAM. . (diabetic.) Make by the above recipe, stirring in sufficient un- sweetened coffee essence to colour it a pale fawn. Add a little more saccharine if necessai’y, and set as usual. MOUSSES AU CAFE. (DIABETIC.) £ pint of cream. 1 teaspoonful of unsweetened coffee essence. 1 teaspoonful of water. 2 tabloids of saccharine. Dissolve the sacchai’ine in a teaspoonful of water. Whip the ci’eam, stir in sufficient coffee essence to make it a pale fawn colour, and dissolved sacchai’ine to taste. Place in custard glasses with a few chopped almonds on top. Serve with a gluten rusk. BAVAROISE CREAMS. (diabetic.) J pint of cream. \ glass of brandy. 2 tabloids of saccharine. 1 teaspoonful of water. Dissolve the saccharine in the water, whip the cream, and add the brandy. Stir in the dissolved saccharine to238 SICKROOM COOKERY. taste. Put into custard glasses, with a few chopped pistachios on top. Serve with a gluten rusk. LEMON CURD CREAMS. (diabetic.) 2 eggs. 1 lemon (juice). 2 oz. of butter. 1 gill of water. 4 tabloids of saccharine. 1 glass of brandy. 1 gill of cream whipped. ^ oz. of gelatine. Dissolve the saccharine in the water. Put the water, the eggs well beaten, butter, lemon juice, and gelatine into a saucepan, and stir until the mixture slightly thickens and the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin. Add the brandy and the cream whipped. Set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. When firm dip for one moment into warm water and turn out. VELVET CREAM. (diabetic.) ^ pint of cream. \ glass of unsweetened brandy or sherry. 3 (^-grain) tabloids of saccharine. \ gill of water, oz. of sheet gelatine. Dissolve the saccharine in the water, then add the gelatine and melt gently over the fire. Whip the cream and strain the gelatine in. Add the brandy and set in moulds. If liked, omit the brandy and flavour with a few drops of vanilla.SICKROOM COOKERY. 239 BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. (diabetic.) 1 gill of cream. 1 gill of water. 2 whole eggs. 1 (i-grain) tabloid of saccharine. Beat the eggs up well, dissolve the saccharine in the water and. stir in, then add the cream. Mix well ami put into a small piedish. Bate in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. STEAMED CUSTARD. (diabetic.) \ gill of cream, gill of water. 2 yolks of egg. 1 white of egg. 1 tabloid of saccharine. Beat the eggs, add the cream and the saccharine dissolved in the water. Butter a small mould or jar and strain the mixture into it. Steam gently until firm. Turn out, and serve diabetic sweet sauce or a little plain cream with the pudding. SIMPLE CUSTARD. (diabetic.) 1 gill of cream. 1 gill of water. 2 whole eggs. 2 tabloids of saccharine. Vanilla. Mix the cream and water together and dissolve the saccharine. Put the mixture on to boil. Beat up the240 SICKROOM COOKERY. eggs well and pour on the boiling liquid. Return to the saucepan and stir carefully until the custard thickens. It must not boil. Strain and flavour with vanilla. ALMOND CUSTARD. \ pint of custard (p. 239). 2 oz. of almonds. Blanch the almonds and rub through a wire sieve. Add them to the custard when it is being cooked in the saucepan. Flavour with vanilla and serve in custard glasses. LEMON CHEESE CAKES. (diabetic.) 2 oz. of butter. 2 yolks of egg. 1 dessertspoonful of almond flour. •| juice of one lemon. 2 (v,--grain) tabloids of saccharine. 2 whites of egg stiffly whipped. Line some patty tins with a little almond pastry. (See recipe.) Beat the butter to a cream, add the yolks of egg one by one, mixing well in. Add the lemon juice, the saccharine dissolved in a teaspoonful of water, the almonds, and lastly the whites stiffly whipped. Mix all together as lightly as possible. Put a spoonful in each patty pan, and bake for about fifteen minutes. LEMON CURD CUPS. (diabetic.) 1 egg. 1 oz. of butter. ^ juice of one lemon. 1; gill of water.241 SICKROOM COOKERY. 2 (^-grain) tabloids of saccharine. 1 tablespoonful of brandy or dry sherry. ■| gill of cream. Dissolve the saccharine in the water. Put the water, butter, flie egg well beaten, and the lemon juice into a small saucepan and stir until the mixture slightly thickens, like custard. Do not boil. Strain into a basin, add the brandy and half a gill of whipped cream. Mix well together and serve in custard glasses. PANCAKES. (diabetic.) 2 eggs. 1 gill of thick cream. Pinch of salt. Beat np the eggs well, add the cream and a tiny pinch of salt. Melt a little butter in an omelet pan, pour in just sufficient of the mixture to cover the surface of the pan. Pry lightly, then carefully turn the pancake and fry the other side. Turn out on to paper, roll up and serve the pancakes very hot on a lace paper. FRENCH PANCAKES. (diabetic.) 1 egg. \ gill of cream. Pinch of salt. Beat up the egg well, add the cream and salt. Bntter some small plates or saucers. Pour a layer of the mixture in, and bake in the oven for about six minutes, until the pancakes have risen and are a pale Fawn. Serve on a hot dish, either plain or with a little diabetic wine sauce. u242 DIABETIC CAKES. ALMOND FLOUR. (diabetic.) Take good Jordan or Valencia almonds ; blanch, shell, and chop them. Then dry and rub through a fine wire sieve. They are then ready for use as almond flour. If needed very fine, after rubbing through the sieve, pound in a mortar, then rub once more through a wire sieve to make it light. Almond flour can be bought, but unless very fresh it quickly turns rancid. ALMOND CAKES. (diabetic.) 2 eggs. 4 oz. of almond flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of water. 4 (-5-grain) tabloids of saccharine. Prepare the almonds as in the recipe for almond flour. Put the tabloids of saccharine to dissolve in the water. Rub the yolks of egg together with a wooden spoon until slightly thick. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, add them to the yolks, pour in the dissolved saccharine, and add the almond flour. Stir all lightly together, thoroughlySICKEOOM COOKERY. 243 mixing. Put the mixture in buttered patty pans or in small rocky heaps on a baking tin, and bake for fifteen minutes. ALMOND SHOOTS. (diabetic.) Take the same mixture as above, and spread it in flat oblong fingers on a lightly-buttered baking tin. Make it neat at the edges, and slightly score each lengthwise with the back of the knife. Bake about ten minutes. ALMOND SPONGE CAKES. (diabetic.) 2 yolks of egg. 2 whites of egg stiffly whipped. 2 (75-grain) tabloids of saccharine. 1 dessertspoonful of water. 2 oz. of almond flour. Put the tabloids into the water to dissolve. Cream the yolks together with a wooden spoon until slightly thick. Whip the whites stiffly and add them to the yolks. Add the dissolved saccharine and the almond flour, and stir them lightly in. Place in small heaps about the size of a walnut on a slightly-buttered baking tin, and bake for fifteen minutes in a good oven. . ALMOND ROCKS. (diabetic.) 3 oz. of chopped almonds. 1 tablespoonful of almond flour. 2 (Ipgrain) tabloids of saccharine. 1 teaspoonful of water. 1 white of egg stiffly whipped. Put the tabloids of saccharine to dissolve in a tea-244 SICKROOM COOKERY. spoonful of water. Chop the almonds and put them into a basin, add the almond flour, then the white of egg by- degrees, and the saccharine and water. Only add suffi- cient white of egg to bind the mixture stiffly together. Bake in tiny rough pyramids on a lightly-buttered tin for twelve minutes. PISTACHIO PYRAMIDS. Make as above, using chopped pistachios instead of almonds. COCOANUT PYRAMIDS. (diabetic.) 3 oz. of unsweetened cocoanut. 1 small dessertspoonful of almond flour. 2 (-Jrgrain) tabloids of saccharine. 1 dessertspoonful of water. 1 white of egg, stiffly whipped. Put the two tabloids of saccharine to soak in the water. Put the cocoanut into a basin, add the almond flour, and mix. Stir in the whipped white of egg, and pour the saccharine and water over. Mix until the mixture is just sufficiently moistened to stick together. Place in small rough pyramids on a lightly-buttered baking tin. Bake for twelve minutes until crisp and a pale fawn colour. N.B.—The white of egg should be added by degrees, only using sufficient to bind the mixture together. GLUTEN BREAD. (diabetic.) As the gluten flour sold often contains a considerable proportion of starch, owing to its insufficient preparation, it is better not to attempt home-made gluten bread, but to obtain gluten broad from the best authorised makers.SICKROOM COOKERY. 245 A recipe for gluten bread is here given in case of necessity. \ lb. of gluten flour. ^ oz. of prepared bran. \ oz. of German yeast, teaspoouful of salt, pint of tepid water. 1 egg (optional). Put the gluten flour and prepared bran into a basin. Rub tbe yeast and salt together in a small basin until liquid. Add the tepid water and the egg well beaten (if using one) to the yeast, and strain into the gluten flour. Mix all up to a moist dough. Let this rise in a gentle heat for one hour. Make into buns and place on a well- greased baking tin, or put into a loaf tin, and let the bread rise for half an hour until it doubles its size. Bake in a quick oven about half an hour. (If not using an egg add half a gill more tepid water.) Gluten bread or coffee biscuits may be cut into slices, toasted, and well buttered. This often makes it more tempting than when served plain. DIABETIC BEVERAGES. COCOA FROM COCOA NIBS. (diabetic.) £ lb. of cocoa nibs. 2 quarts of water. Put the cocoa nibs into a kettle with the cold water and s246 SICKROOM COOKERY. simmer gently for five hours. Strain off. When cold remove the fat which will rise to the top, before making hot for use. More water may be added, and the cocoa nibs simmered once more. Serve with cream. COFFEE AND TEA. Make in the usual way and serve with cream. EGG BEVERAGES. Several of the egg and cream beverages in the portion devoted to “ Beverages ” will be found suitable for the diabetic, substituting sacchai’ine for sugar. CREAM AND SODA. (diabetic.) gill of cream, tumbler of soda water. Put the cream into a tumbler and add the soda water. This is a nutritious and refreshing beverage for the diabetic.247 INDEX. PAGE Preface iii CHAPTER I. (I.) Classification of Foods . 1 (II.) Food Values 4 CHAPTER II. (I.) Effects of Cooking 11 (II.) Methods of Cooking ... 12 CHAPTER III. Diet Scales 14 Some points on the Prepara- tion of Food for Bottle-fed Infants (F. C. Madden, F.R. C.S.) 170 CHAPTER IV. Notes on the Sickroom, etc.... 27 CHAPTER V. Explanation of Cookery Terms 29 CHAPTER VI. Rules for Beef Tea 31 BEEF TEAS. Beef Tea, Rules for making . ill ,, I (in saucepan) ... 36 ,, II (in jar) ... .. 36 ,, III (in oven) 37 „ and Egg 33 ,, Essence of 38 ,, in Hospitals 33 ,, Jelly 38 ,, Raw 37 ,, Savoury 39 ,, Whole 39 Beef Juice (BartJmloiv) 40 Raw Meat Juice (Madden) ... 173 Mutton Tea 40 Restorative Jelly 39 TAGE SOUPS. Notes on ... 41 Soup, Clear ... 42 ,, Essence of Chicken ... 44 „ Fish ... 46 „ Game ... 46 „ Giblet ... 47 „ Invalid 48 „ Oxtail 50 „ Oxtail, Clear ... 50 „ Oyster ... 51 „ Rabbit 52 „ Restorative 53 „ Savoury Custard for 43 ,, Shin of Beef 53 „ Tapioca Cream ... 54 „ White Chicken ... ... 45 Stock, First 41 „ Second ... 42 „ Glaze ... 209 Broth, Beef and Sago ... ... 43 „ Chicken 44 „ Lamb’s Head ... 48 „ Mutton ... 49 „ Mutton (simple) .. 48 „ Oyster 52 „ Veal ... 69 Vegetable Soups— Artichoke 54 Cabbage ... 55 Celery 55 Cucumber ... 56 Lentil ... 56 Onion 57 Potato 57 Tomato 58 Vegetable Marrow ... ... 58 FISH. Notes on 59 Fish, To bake 61 » >. boil ... 60 ,» » fry ... 61 •• -1 grill .. . 62248 INDEX. FISH—continued. _. . page I(ish, To steam GO „ and Macaroni 64 „ Cakes 65 „ Fricassee of 65 „ Kedgeree 6G „ Pudding 63 „ Scalloped 67 „ Souffl6 64 „ Stock 62 „ Cod, stewed 68 „ Eels, stewed 68 ,, Haddock, stewed . ... 68 „ Haddock, baked 63 „ Oysters, stewed 69 „ Plaice, fried 66 „ Red Mullet, baked ... 67 „ Sole, To fillet 69 „ „ 5, la Colbert 70 „ „ 4 la Hollandaise... 72 ,, ,, au Gratin 71 „ „ boiled 62 „ „ Fillet of 70 „ „ fried 72 „ Trout 72 „ Whiting, boiled 62 ,. Whiting, cream 73 „ Whiting, fried 72 MEATS. Meats, Notes on 74 „ Rules for baking ... 77 „ „ boiling ... 74 „ „ makinggravy 76 „ ,, roasting ... 75 „ ,, stewing ... 77 Barley Cream 78 Calf’s Feet 87 Calf’s Head 87 Chop, grilled 88 Chop, steamed 88 Chop, stewed' 89 Lamb Cutlets 89 Lamb, Neck of (braised) ... 90 Mutton Cutlets 89 Mutton, Fresh mince of ... 90 Oxtail, stewed 92 Rabbit „ 94 Raw Beef Balls 94 Raw Beef Sandwiches 95 MEATS —continued. Sheep’s Head Sheep’s Trotters PAGB 91 91 Sweetbread, braised 97 „ fried (I) 95 „ fried (II) 96 „ in Cases 96 „ plainly boiled ... 95 Tripe, stewed 98 CHICKEN AND GAME. Chicken, boiled 78 ,, Boudinettes 81 „ Croquettes of 82 „ Custard 82 „ Cutlets 83 „ Fillet of 84 „ Fillet of, broiled ... 84 ,, Fillet of, steamed ... 83 „ Fresh Mince of 85 „ Fricassee of 84 „ Mince 86 ,, Mince inRamakinCases 86 „ Panada 80 „ Potted 87 „ Queimelles 93 ,, Roast 79 „ Souffles (baked) ... 81 „ Souffld 80 „ stewed 79 Game 89 Pigeon, roast 92 ., stewed 93 Quail, broiled 93 VEGETABLES. Vegetables, To prepare 99 „ „ boil ... ... 100 Brussels Sprouts 100 Cabbage 100 Carrots 101 Cauliflower 100 Celery 101 Cucumber 101 French Beans 100 Lettuce, boiled 101 Mushrooms, stewed 103 Parsnips 101 Potatoes 102INDEX. 249 VEGETABLES—continued. Potatoes Croquettes PAGE 102 „ mashed 102 Seakale 101 Spanish Onions 100 Spinach 101 Tomatoes au Gratin 103 „ baked 104 Turnips ... 101 Turnip Tops ... 101 Vegetable Marrow 101 Rice boiled as a vegetable 104 Macaroni „ „ ... 104 SAUCES. Sauce, Allemande ... 105 „ Bread ,, , 105 „ Caramel ... 106 „ Cornflour 106 „ Custard 106 .. Egg ... 106 „ German 107 „ Hollandaise 107 „ Melted Butter ... ... 107 „ Parsley and Butter 108 „ Sweet 108 „ Tomato 108 „ White 109 „ White, for fish ... 109 JELLIES AND PUDDINGS. Notes on 110 Bread and Milk 122 Cream, Rice 126 „ Vanilla 127 „ Velvet Jelly, Amber 127 113 „ Apple 111 „ Calf’s Foot 111 ,, Claret 112 „ Coffee 112 .. Egg 113 „ Lemon 114 „ Milk 114 „ Orange 115 „ Port Wine 115 „ Rice 116 ,, Wine 116 Junket 130 JELLIES AND PUDDINGS —continued. PAGE Mould , Chocolate 124 11 Coffee 124 J» Cornflour Blancmange 125 11 Custard 124 11 Fig 127 11 Ground Rice Blanc- mange 125 11 Prune 131 11 Whole Rice 133 Puddings, To boil 117 11 „ steam 117 11 Apples and Cream . 118 11 Apples with Custard Sauce 118 11 Apple Meringue ... 119 11 Apple Snow 120 11 Apples and Sago ... 119 11 Batter, boiled 120 11 Biscuit 121 11 Bread and Butter ... 121 11 Caramel Custard ... 122 11 Caramel Rice 123 11 Castle 122 1) Custard, baked 126 l) Custard, boiled 126 11 Florador 133 11 Friar’s Omelet 129 11 Macaroni 130 11 Madeira 131 11 Queen of Bread ... 132 11 Rice, baked 132 11 Rice, Ground 133 11 Rice Shape 133 11 Sago or Tapioca ... 134 11 Sago Snow 134 11 Semolina 133 11 Sponge 135 11 Sponge Cake 135 11 Suet, boiled 120 11 Vermicelli ... ... 137 Souffles, Arrowroot 136 »! Omelet 136 11 Vanilla 137 Sponge, Lemon 129 Stewed Figs 128 11 Fruit 128 11 Prunes 128 Trifle, Simple 138INDEX, 250 EGGS. Eggs, To boil „ poach „ steam Omelet BEVERAGES. Apple Water Arrowroot, Cup of Barley Gruel Barley Water, clear Barley Water, thick Black Currant Tea Bran Tea Brandy and Egg Mixture(/jYi7. Pliar.) „ „ „ (Mmketi) Caudle, Old-fashioned Coffee Cream and Brandy Cream and Soda Egg and Brandy „ Beaten „ Cordial (Burney Yeu) ... » Flip „ Nog (Bartholow) „ White of, and Milk „ White of, and Soda ., Wine Flour Ball Gruel „ Barley „ Potato (Burney Yco) ... ,, Sago Iceland or Irish Moss Koumiss (Burney Yeu) Lemon Squash Lemonade, I II „ Citric Linseed Tea Milk and Soda Milk and Suet (Pavy) Milk, Sterilisation of (Burney Yeu) Milk, Thick Orangeade Port, Mulled BE VER AGES—continued. PAGE Prairie Oyster ... 165 Prune Drink ... 166 Rice Milk ... 166 Rice Water (Pavy) ... 166 Rum and Milk ... 167 Suet and Milk (Pavy) ... ... 164 Tamarind Drink ... 166 Tea ... 167 Toast Water ... 167 Treacle Posset ... 167 Whey, Milk ... ... 168 „ Rennet ... 169 „ White Wine ... 168 BREAD, BISCUITS AND CAKES Biscuits, Milk ... 142 „ Oatmeal ... 143 „ Shrewsbury ... ... 143 ,, Wholemeal ... 144 Bread, Rules for making ... 139 ,, Household ... 140 „ Hovis, or Wholemeal... 141 ., Vienna ... 142 Cakes and Biscuits, Notes on . 139 „ „ Rules for. 140 „ Cornflour ... 144 „ Genoese ... 145 „ Gingerbread ... 145 „ Invalid ... 145 „ Light Tea ... 148 „ Madeira ... 146 „ Queen’s ... 146 „ Rice ... 147 „ Seed ... 147 „ Simple Sponge ... ... 147 „ Sponge ... 148 „ Yorkshire Tea ... ... 149 Milk Rolls ... 149 „ Scones ... 150 CHILDREN. Arrowroot Jelly ... 174 ,, Water ... 172 Barley Water & Oatmeal Water 171 Bread Jelly ; Whey .. 173 Bottle-fed Infants, Food for (Madden) ... 170 Oatmeal Jelly ... 174 PAGE 151 152 152 222 153 151 160 155 154 155 155 156 156 158 159 159 159 156 158 157 157 157 158 158 156 164 160 160 161 161 161 162 163 162 162 163 164 159 164 182 168 165 165INDEX, 251 PEPTONISED FOODS. PAGE Peptonised Beef Tea Jelly ... 179 „ Beef Tea (Sir Wil- liavi Roberts) 175 „ Blancmange 178 „ Custard Pudding 178 „ Gruel 177 ,, Milk (Benger) ... 176 „ Milk (Fairchild)... 176 „ Milk Gruel 178 „ Soups 179 MALTED FOODS. Malted Foods (Mrs. Hart) ... 180 Malt Infusion (Sir William Roberts) 181 Malted Gruel 181 Benger’s Food 182 Milk, Sterilisation of (Burney Yeo) 182 POULTICES. Poultices, Instructions for ... 183 „ Bran 185 „ Bread 183 „ Charcoal 184 „ Hot Sand 186 „ Hot Water 186 „ Jacket 185 „ Linseed 184 „ Linseed and Mustard 185 „ Mustard Plaster ... 185 Cold Compress 188 Fomentations, Hot 186 „ Alkaline or Stupe 188 „ Laudanum 187 ,, Poppy 187 „ Turpentine ... 187 Icebag Application 188 DIABETIC COOKERY. Dr. Pavy’s Dietary for the Diabetic 191 SOUPS (Diabetic). Soup, Asparagus 192 „ Bonne Femme 192 „ Clear Mulligatawny ... 193 „ Cream 193 ,, Cream with Parmesan... 194 , Lobster Bisque 194 , Pur6e of Brussels Sprouts 195 SOUPS—continued. PAGE Soup, Spinach 195 „ Sweetbread 196 FISH (Diabetic). Fish, baked 197 „ boiled 197 Fish Pie 197 Lobster Balls 197 Lobster Creams 198 Oyster Ramakins 198 Shrimp Balls ... 197 MEATS (Diabetic). Beef, Brown Stew of 199 „ Fillet of, and Tomato ... 199 „ Olives 200 Chicken, Boudinettes of 200 „ Cream 201 „ Crepinettes 201 „ Croquettes 202 „ Escallopes of 204 „ Fricassee 205 „ Ramakins 202 „ Stewed withMushrooms206 Curry 203 Game, Salmi of 207 Meat Glaze 209 Mutton Cutlets 206 Pigeon, Escallopes of 204 Pork Brawn 209 Quails 206 Sausages 207 Sweetbreads 208 Veal Brawn 209 Veal Fricassee 205 Vegetable Marrow, stuffed ... 208 VEGETABLES (Diabetic). Vegetables, Preparation of ... 210 Asparagus ... 210 Cabbage, dressed 210 Cauliflower au Gratin 211 Cauliflower, curried 212 Celery, stewed 211 Cucumber Farci 211 Mushrooms Farcies 212 „ grilled 212 „ stewed 213 „ and poached eggs 213 Seakale au Parmesan 213 Vegetable Marrow au Gratin 213INDEX. 252 SAVOURIES (Diabetic). Anchovy Toast PAGE 215 Angels on Horseback 218 Aspic Jelly 214 Cauliflower Salad 219 Caviare 218 Chicken or Game Salad 218 Cream Cheese 219 Cream and Cheese Savoury ... 220 Eggs, Anchovy .. 215 „ and Cheese, Savoury ... 216 „ baked 215 „ curried 216 „ scrambled 215 „ Shrimp 217 „ Swiss 217 Ham, Croutes of 220 Lobster, Croutes of 220 Olives and Anchovy Butter ... 221 Olives £l la Tar tare 221 Omelet, Cheese 223 „ Crab . 223 „ Ham 223 „ Savoury 222 „ Vegetable 223 Sardines with Egg Cream ... 222 Savouries in Aspic 214 Shrimps, Crofltes of 220 Shrimps, curried 216 SAUCES (Diabetic). Sauce, Anchovy 224 „ au Gratin 227 „ Brown 225 „ Caper 224 „ Devil 226 „ Dutch 226 Egg 225 „ Espagnole 225 „ French Melted Butter 226 „ for Cutlets 231 „ German 227 „ Horseradish 228 „ Lobster 228 „ Mayonnaise 229 „ Mint 229 „ Mousseline 230 „ Mousseline, Cold 230 „ Oyster 228 „ Parsley 225 SAUCES—continued. Sauce, Piquant PAGK 230 „ Shrimp 228 „ Sweet 227 „ Tartare 229 „ Tomato 232 „ White 224 „ White (Simple) 231 PUDDINGS AND CREAMS (Diabetic). Almond Castles 233 „ Fritters 233 „ Pastry 234 „ Pudding, baked 235 ,, Pyramids 234 „ Souffle 234 Cocoanut Tartlets 235 Creams, Almond 236 „ Bavaroise 237 ,, Blancmange 236 „ Coffee 237 „ Lemon Curd 238 „ Mousses au Cafe 237 „ Pistachio 236 „ Velvet Custard, Almond 238 240 „ baked 239 „ boiled 239 ,, Simple 239 „ steamed 239 Lemon Cheese Cakes 240 Lemon Curd Cups 240 Pancakes 241 „ French 241 CAKES (Diabetic). Almond Flour, To prepare .. 242 Cake, Almond 242 „ Almond Rocks 243 „ Almond Shoots 243 „ Almond Sponge 243 „ Cocoanut Pyramids .. 244 „ Pistachio Pyramids .. 244 Gluten Bread 244 BEVERAGES (Diabetic). Cocoa from Nibs 245 Cream and Soda 246 Egg Beverages ... 246H. C. BARTLETT, F.C.S., Ph.D., says: “ Your Food is certainly the best I ever examined.” e @ SCOTT’S M. O. F. FOOD. SCOTT’S M.O.F. FOOD “unequalled” for Infants and Invalids. Ideal Food for Children and the Aged. Easily assimilated, builds, sus- tains, regulates the system. Makes a most wholesome and easily digested dish for Breakfast, Lunch or Supper. Analysis proves that it contains nitrogen (flesh former), carbon (force and heat producer), and mineral salts which vitalise the brain and nerves, far exceeding those found in any other food. A Free Scunnle may be had from your grocer or CHEMIST or by sending Post Card to A. 4 R. SCOTT, LTD., WEST MILLS, COLHITON, MIDLOTHIAN.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: It8^ Micrpfilm No: Date Particulars 2oJ 11 10|W Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Wc^ (pr > Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks